{"id": "2311886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2311886", "title": "Jack Charles (civil servant)", "text": "Jack Charles (civil servant)\n\nJack Charles (18 January 1923 – 19 January 2006) was a British civil servant and Director of Establishments for the Greater London Council.\n\nHe was educated at Ilford County High School, Essex.\n\nDuring World War II, he was initially at the Air Ministry, 1939–42, then served in the RAF, 1942–46.\n\nAfter the War, he was at the Ministry of Supply, 1947–59, serving as Private Secretary to the Minister of Supply, Duncan Sandys, 1952–54. When the Ministry of Supply was disbanded in October 1959, he was moved to the War Office. He next worked at the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority, 1960–68, being the Authority's Personnel Officer from 1965.\n\nIn 1968, he moved to the Greater London Council as Deputy Director of Establishments. He was Director of Establishments from 1972 to 1977, when he retired to Newbury in Berkshire to concentrate on gardening and walking.\n\nHe died peacefully on 19 January 2006, the day after his 83rd birthday. He was survived by one son, Andy, and one daughter, Alison.\n\n"}
{"id": "2311890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2311890", "title": "Pilot report", "text": "Pilot report\n\nA pilot report or PIREP is a report of actual weather conditions encountered by an aircraft in flight. This information is usually relayed by radio to the nearest ground station, but other options (e.g. electronic submission) also exist in some regions. The message would then be encoded and relayed to other weather offices and air traffic service units.\n\nAlthough the actual form used to record the PIREP may differ from one country to another, the standards and criteria will remain almost the same. At a minimum the PIREP must contain a header, aircraft location, time, flight level, aircraft type and one other field.\n\nIn recent years, a PIREP will also include UA or UUA used to identify the PIREP as routine or urgent.\n\n\n\nThe message identifier \"UA\" is used when the PIREP contains non-hazardous weather information. If the PIREP contains a report of a tornado, funnel cloud, waterspout, severe turbulence, severe icing, hail, or a low-level wind shear hazard, the identifier \"UUA\" would be used.\n\nThe location (/OV) can be reported in one of three ways: as a direction and distance from a navigation aid (NAVAID), as a direction and distance from an airport, or as the latitude and longitude of the aircraft.\n\nThe time (/TM) used is the UTC time that the PIREP is reported.\n\nThe flight level (/FL) is reported as either a three digit value that indicates the altitude of the aircraft above sea level in hundreds of feet or can be one of three abbreviations: DURD (during descent or on approach), DURC (during climb or after takeoff) and UNKN (unknown).\n\nAircraft type (/TP) will be the approved ICAO designator, or UNKN if not reported.\n\nSky cover (/SK) is used to report the cloud layer amounts and the height of the cloud base. The tops of the cloud layers can also be included, as can more than one layer of cloud. Heights are in hundreds of feet above sea level and are three digits. Abbreviations used in this group are \"CLR\" (clear), \"FEW\" (few), \"SCT\" (scattered), \"BKN\" (broken) and \"OVC\" (overcast).\n\nTemperature (/TA) is the air temperature in whole degrees Celsius as a two-digit value, with negative temperatures preceded by a minus (-) sign. In the United States, negative temperatures are preceded by the letter M (M).\n\nWind velocity (/WV) must contain both the wind speed and direction. Direction is reported as a three-digit value in whole degrees true and the wind speed in knots also in three digits.\n\nTurbulence (/TB) and the intensity are reported in a PIREP based on the aircraft and occupants reaction to the turbulence. The altitude of the turbulence should be included using three-digit groups. When the top or the base of the turbulence is unknown then the abbreviation BLO (below) or ABV (above) should be used. Turbulence should be reported as LGT (light), MDT (moderate), SVR (severe) or in exceptional cases EXTRM (extreme). Clear-air turbulence is reported as CAT.\n\nIcing (/IC) is reported by type and the intensity or rate of accretion. The type of ice is reported as \"CLR\" (clear), \"RIME\", or \"MXD\" (mixed). The intensity is reported as \"TR\" (trace), \"LGT\" (light), \"MDT\" (moderate), and \"SVR\" (severe).\n\nRemarks (/RM) report on other weather conditions that are not covered in the rest of the PIREP may include such things as icing in precipitation, thunderstorms, St Elmo's fire and frontal conditions. There are many other types of weather conditions that could be reported in a PIREP.\n\nThe above explanation of PIREP fields is Canadian. The United States version may also include a weather (/WX) group, while other countries may use other groups and measurements.\n\nThese examples are taken from the Canadian MANOBS (Manual of Surface Weather Observations) published by Environment Canada.\n\n\n\nIn the US, air traffic controllers are required to solicit PIREPs upon request of other facilities or pilots, or when any of the following conditions exists or is forecast in their area:\n\n\nAt least once hourly, terminal controllers must obtain a descent/climb-out PIREP, including cloud information and other related phenomena.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2311892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2311892", "title": "Limington", "text": "Limington\n\nLimington is a village and parish in Somerset, England, situated north of Yeovil in the South Somerset district. The village has a population of 199. The parish includes the hamlet of Draycott.\n\nIt lies near the left bank of the River Yeo opposite Yeovilton.\n\nThe name of the village means settlement on a stream from \"Lymn\" a Celtic word for stream or river.\n\nBefore the Norman Conquest the manor was held by Glastonbury Abbey. It then passed to the Courcelles family. The parish of Limington was part of the Stone Hundred.\n\nWilliam Rosewell purchased the manor in 1564 and it was inherited by subsequent generations: William Rosewell of Forde Abbey (1563-1593); Sir Henry Rosewell (1593-1656); and Dame Dorothy Rosewell (1656-1663). Dorothy Rosewell was forced by act of Parliament to sell Limington manor in 1663. The manor was then purchased by James Tazewell who re-built the manor house in 1672. He died in 1683 leaving the manor to his eldest son, James. In 1689 James Tazewell sold it to Virtue Radford and Edward Allen.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the Non-metropolitan district of South Somerset, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, having previously been part of Yeovil Rural District. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nIt is also part of the Yeovil county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nThe Anglican Church of St Mary dates from the late 14th century and includes fragments of an earlier building. It has been designated as a Grade I listed building.\n\nThomas Wolsey was the vicar of the parish before becoming a cardinal of the Roman Catholic Church and Lord Chancellor to Henry VIII.\n"}
{"id": "2311899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2311899", "title": "Long Load", "text": "Long Load\n\nLong Load is a village and parish in Somerset, England, situated on the River Yeo south of Somerton in the South Somerset district. The village has a population of 332.\n\nLong Load was recorded as ‘Lade’ in the late 12th century and ‘La Lade’ in 1285 meaning The watercourse or drainage channel from the Old English ‘lād’ or The long route (from) where goods were carried from the Old English and . It has also been suggested that the name derives from O.E. \"lad\" meaning a water-course.\n\nLong Load's association with the river is long standing. A bridge over the river is known to have existed by 1335, while by 1448 there were wharves for the loading and unloading of cargoes from boats using the river. The current five arch bridge has medieval origins, but was rebuilt in the 18th century and widened in 1814 it cost of £452. It is a Scheduled Ancient Monument and has been designated as a grade II* Listed building.\n\nThe river was the subject of the abortive Ivelchester and Langport Navigation in 1795, and although the works were never completed, traffic on the river was sufficient for the coal merchants Stukey and Bagehot to establish a coal yard near the bridge by 1824. Water levels were improved by work on the river below Langport, and the 1841 census records that a salt house had been constructed. By then, 88 households lived in Long Load, including a boatman called William Gillett and his family, while another boatman lived near the bridge. Cargoes arriving at the wharves included slates, bricks, tiles and coal, while the main export was timber.\n\nThe parish was created from the northern parts of the Martock parish in 1895, and was originally 'called Lade', or 'La Lade' taken from the Saxon word \"lade\", meaning \"water course\".\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the Non-metropolitan district of South Somerset, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, having previously been part of Yeovil Rural District. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nIt is also part of the Somerton and Frome county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nIn 1548 Long Load chapel was first mentioned, when it was one of the tithings of the parish of Martock. The first solid evidence of a church on the present site is a tablet in the vestry dated 1733, which states that lands were added here at that time.\n\nThe Anglican parish Christ Church was built in 1854-1856, by Charles Edmund Giles, replacing a chapel on the site which was first recorded 1418.\n\nThe church at Long Load is no longer in use as a church by the parish and has now been sold and is in the process of being redeveloped into a family home.\n"}
{"id": "2311900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2311900", "title": "Chaim Halberstam", "text": "Chaim Halberstam\n\nChaim Halberstam of Sanz (1797–1876) (), known as the \"Divrei Chaim\" after his sefer (works), was the rabbi of Sanz (), a famous Hasidic Rebbe and the founder of the Sanz Hasidic dynasty, and one of the leaders of Eastern European Jewry in his generation.\n\nHalberstam was a pupil of Rabbi Moshe Yehoshua Heshl Orenstein and Rabbi Naftali Zvi of Ropshitz. His first rabbinical position was in Rudnik. In 1830 he was appointed as the town rabbi of Sanz, where he founded a Hasidic dynasty. He attracted many followers and students, due to his piety and greatness. Sanz has been succeeded nowadays by the Sanz-Klausenberg, Sanz-Zmigrad Hasidic dynasties and the Bobov Hasidic dynasties, among others.\n\nHalberstam was born in 1793, in Tarnogród, Poland. His first wife Rochel Feyga was the daughter of Rabbi Boruch Frenkl-Thumim (1760–1828), the rabbi of Lipník nad Bečvou ( \"Leipnik\") and author of the work \"Boruch Taam\". She bore him five sons and three daughters. When she died he then married her sister, who died childless. His third wife was Rechil Devorah Unger, daughter of Rabbi Yechil Tzvi Unger, son of Rabbi Mordechai Dovid Unger of Dombrov; who bore him three sons and four daughters.\n\nHalberstam had eight sons and seven daughters. His eight sons were:\n\n\nHalberstam's sons all became famous rebbes (except for Myer Noson, who predeceased him). His seven daughters all married Hasidic leaders.\n\nHalberstam died in Sanz, Austria-Hungary (now Poland) in 1876 (25 Nisan 5636).\n\nHalberstam was acclaimed by the leading rabbis of his generation as one of the foremost Talmudists, poskim and Kabbalistic authorities of his time, he received queries from Rabbis and communities from all over the world. His responsa, as well as his Torah commentaries, published under the title \"Divrei Chaim\", reflect his Torah greatness, his humility, and his compassionate nature. He was a champion of the poor and established many organizations to relieve them of their poverty. He was the first Honorary President of Kolel Chibas Yerushalayim. His compassion and generosity was legendary; he literally gave away everything he had for the needy; and went to sleep penniless.\n\nDuring his 46 years as Rabbi of Sanz; that city was transformed into a vibrant center of Hasidism, attracting tens of thousands of followers. Among his many disciples, are counted such leaders as Rabbi Zvi Hirsh Friedlander of Liska, the \"Tiferes Shlome\" of Radomsk, Rabbi Abraham Judah ha-Kohen Schwartz, Rabbi Meir Horowitz of Dzhikov, and the \"Kedishes Yom Tov\" of Sighet. He studied with his brother-in-law, Yosef Babad, author of the \"Minchat Chinuch\".\n"}
{"id": "2311903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2311903", "title": "Endogenous retrovirus", "text": "Endogenous retrovirus\n\nEndogenous retroviruses (ERVs) are endogenous viral elements in the genome that closely resemble and can be derived from retroviruses. They are abundant in the genomes of jawed vertebrates, and they comprise up to 5–8% of the human genome (lower estimates of ~1%). ERVs are a subclass of a type of gene called a transposon, which can be packaged and moved within the genome to serve a vital role in gene expression and in regulation. They are distinguished as retrotransposons, which are Class I elements. Researchers have suggested that retroviruses evolved from a type of transposable gene called a retrotransposon, which includes ERVs; these genes can mutate and instead of moving to another location in the genome they can become exogenous or pathogenic. This means that not all ERVs may have originated as an insertion by a retrovirus but that some may have been the source for the genetic information in the retroviruses they resemble. When integration of viral DNA occurs in the germ-line, it can give rise to an ERV, which can later become fixed in the gene pool of the host population.\n\nThe replication cycle of a retrovirus entails the insertion (\"integration\") of a DNA copy of the viral genome into the nuclear genome of the host cell. Most retroviruses infect somatic cells, but occasional infection of germline cells (cells that produce eggs and sperm) can also occur. Rarely, retroviral integration may occur in a germline cell that goes on to develop into a viable organism. This organism will carry the inserted retroviral genome as an integral part of its own genome—an \"endogenous\" retrovirus (ERV) that may be inherited by its offspring as a novel allele. Many ERVs have persisted in the genome of their hosts for millions of years. However, most of these have acquired inactivating mutations during host DNA replication and are no longer capable of producing the virus. ERVs can also be partially excised from the genome by a process known as recombinational deletion, in which recombination between the identical sequences that flank newly integrated retroviruses results in deletion of the internal, protein-coding regions of the viral genome.\n\nThe general retrovirus genome consists of three genes vital for the invasion, replication, escape, and spreading of its viral genome. These three genes are gag (encodes for structural proteins for the viral core), pol (encodes for reverse transcriptase, integrase, and protease), and env (encodes for coat proteins for the virus's exterior). These viral proteins are encoded as polyproteins. In order to carry out their life cycle, the retrovirus relies heavily on the host cell's machinery. Protease degrades peptide bonds of the viral polyproteins, making the separate proteins functional. Reverse transcriptase functions to synthesize viral DNA from the viral RNA in the host cell's cytoplasm before it enters the nucleus. Integrase guides the integration of viral DNA into the host genome.\n\nOver time, the genome of ERVs not only acquire point mutations, but also shuffle and recombine with other ERVs. ERVs with the \"env\" coat decayed become more likely to spread.\n\nEndogenous retroviruses can play an active role in shaping genomes. Most studies in this area have focused on the genomes of humans and higher primates, but other vertebrates, such as mice and sheep, have also been studied in depth. The long terminal repeat (LTR) sequences that flank ERV genomes frequently act as alternate promoters and enhancers, often contributing to the transcriptome by producing tissue-specific variants. In addition, the retroviral proteins themselves have been co-opted to serve novel host functions, particularly in reproduction and development. Recombination between homologous retroviral sequences has also contributed to gene shuffling and the generation of genetic variation. Furthermore, in the instance of potentially antagonistic effects of retroviral sequences, repressor genes have co-evolved to combat them.\n\nSolo LTRs and LTRs associated with complete retroviral sequences have been shown to act as transcriptional elements on host genes. Their range of action is mainly by insertion into the 5' UTRs of protein coding genes; however, they have been known to act upon genes up to 70–100 kb away. The majority of these elements are inserted in the sense direction to their corresponding genes, but there has been evidence of LTRs acting in the antisense direction and as a bidirectional promoter for neighboring genes. In a few cases, the LTR functions as the major promoter for the gene. For example, in humans AMY1C has a complete ERV sequence in its promoter region; the associated LTR confers salivary specific expression of the digestive enzyme amylase. Also, the primary promoter for bile acid-CoA:amino acid N-acyltransferase (BAAT), which codes for an enzyme that is integral in bile metabolism, is of LTR origin.\n\nThe insertion of a solo ERV-9 LTR may have produced a functional open reading frame (ORF), causing the rebirth of the human immunity related GTPase gene (IRGM). ERV insertions have also been shown to generate alternative splice sites either by direct integration into the gene, as with the human leptin hormone receptor, or driven by the expression of an upstream LTR, as with the phospholipase A-2 like protein.\n\nMost of the time, however, the LTR functions as one of many alternate promoters, often conferring tissue-specific expression related to reproduction and development. In fact, 64% of known LTR-promoted transcription variants are expressed in reproductive tissues. For example, the gene CYP19 codes for aromatase P450, an important enzyme for estrogen synthesis, that is normally expressed in the brain and reproductive organs of most mammals. However, in primates, an LTR-promoted transcriptional variant confers expression to the placenta and is responsible for controlling estrogen levels during pregnancy. Furthermore, the neuronal apoptosis inhibitory protein (NAIP), normally widespread, has an LTR of the HERV-P family acting as a promoter that confers expression to the testis and prostate. Other proteins, such as nitric oxide synthase 3 (NOS3), interleukin-2 receptor B (IL2RB), and another mediator of estrogen synthesis, HSD17B1, are also alternatively regulated by LTRs that confer placental expression, but their specific functions are not yet known. The high degree of reproductive expression is thought to be an after effect of the method by which they were endogenized; however, this also may be due to a lack of DNA methylation in germ-line tissues.\n\nThe best-characterized instance of placental protein expression comes not from an alternatively promoted host gene but from a complete co-option of a retroviral protein. Retroviral fusogenic env proteins, which play a role in the entry of the virion into the host cell, have had an important impact on the development of the mammalian placenta. In mammals, intact env proteins called syncytins are responsible for the formation and function of syncytiotrophoblasts. These multinucleated cells are mainly responsible for maintaining nutrient exchange and separating the fetus from the mother's immune system. It has been suggested that the selection and fixation of these proteins for this function have played a critical role in the evolution of viviparity.\n\nIn addition, the insertion of ERVs and their respective LTRs have the potential to induce chromosomal rearrangement due to recombination between viral sequences at inter-chromosomal loci. These rearrangements have been shown to induce gene duplications and deletions that largely contribute to genome plasticity and dramatically change the dynamic of gene function. Furthermore, retroelements in general are largely prevalent in rapidly evolving, mammal-specific gene families whose function is largely related to the response to stress and external stimuli. In particular, both human class I and class II MHC genes have a high density of HERV elements as compared to other multi-locus-gene families. It has been shown that HERVs have contributed to the formation of extensively duplicated duplicon blocks that make up the HLA class 1 family of genes. More specifically, HERVs primarily occupy regions within and between the break points between these blocks, suggesting that considerable duplication and deletions events, typically associated with unequal crossover, facilitated their formation. The generation of these blocks, inherited as immunohaplotypes, act as a protective polymorphism against a wide range of antigens that may have imbued humans with an advantage over other primates.\n\nFinally, the insertion of ERVs or ERV elements into genic regions of host DNA, or overexpression of their transcriptional variants, has a much higher potential to produce deleterious effects than positive ones. Their appearance into the genome has created a host-parasite co-evolutionary dynamic that proliferated the duplication and expansion of repressor genes. The most clear-cut example of this involves the rapid duplication and proliferation of tandem zinc-finger genes in mammal genomes. Zinc-finger genes, particularly those that include a KRAB domain, exist in high copy number in vertebrate genomes, and their range of functions are limited to transcriptional roles. It has been shown in mammals, however, that the diversification of these genes was due to multiple duplication and fixation events in response to new retroviral sequences or their endogenous copies to repress their transcription. The characteristic of placentas being very evolutionary distinct organs between different species has been suggested to result from the co-option of ERV enhancers. Regulatory mutations, instead of mutations in genes that encode for hormones and growth factors, support the known evolution of placental morphology, especially since the majority of hormone and growth factor genes are expressed in response to pregnancy, not during placental development. Researchers studied the regulatory landscape of placental development between the rat and mouse, two closely related species. This was done by mapping all regulatory elements of the rat trophoblast stem cells (TSCs) and comparing them to their orthologs in mouse TSCs. TSCs were observed because they reflect the initial cells that develop in the fetal placenta. Regardless of their tangible similarities, enhancer and repressed regions were mostly species-specific. However, most promoter sequences were conserved between mouse and rat. In conclusion to their study, researchers proposed that ERVs influenced species-specific placental evolution through mediation of placental growth, immunosuppression, and cell fusion.\n\nAnother example of ERV exploiting cellular mechanisms is p53, a tumor suppressor gene (TSG). DNA damage and cellular stress induces the p53 pathway, which results in cell apoptosis. Using chromatin immunoprecipitation with sequencing, thirty-percent of all p53-binding sites were located within copies of a few primate-specific ERV families. A study suggested that this benefits retroviruses because p53's mechanism provides a rapid induction of transcription, which leads to the exit of viral RNA from the host cell.\n\nThe majority of ERVs that occur in vertebrate genomes are ancient, inactivated by mutation, and have reached genetic fixation in their host species. For these reasons, they are extremely unlikely to have negative effects on their hosts except under unusual circumstances. Nevertheless, it is clear from studies in birds and non-human mammal species including mice, cats and koalas, that younger (i.e., more recently integrated) ERVs can be associated with disease. The number of active ERVs in the genome of mammals is negatively related to their body size suggesting a contribution to the Peto's paradox through cancer pathogenesis. This has led researchers to propose a role for ERVs in several forms of human cancer and autoimmune disease, although conclusive evidence is lacking.\n\nIn humans, ERVs have been proposed to be involved in multiple sclerosis (MS). A specific association between MS and the ERVWE1, or \"syncytin\", gene, which is derived from an ERV insertion, has been reported, along with the presence of an \"MS-associated retrovirus\" (MSRV), in patients with the disease. Human ERVs (HERVs) have also been implicated in ALS and addiction.\n\nIn 2004 it was reported that antibodies to HERVs were found in greater frequency in the sera of people with schizophrenia. Additionally, the cerebrospinal fluid of people with recent onset schizophrenia contained levels of a retroviral marker, reverse transcriptase, four times higher than control subjects. Researchers continue to look at a possible link between HERVs and schizophrenia, with the additional possibility of a triggering infection inducing schizophrenia.\n\nERVs have been found to be associated to disease not only through disease-causing relations, but also through immunity. The frequency of ERVs in long terminal repeats (LTRs) likely correlates to viral adaptations to take advantage of immunity signaling pathways that promote viral transcription and replication. A study done in 2016 investigated the benefit of ancient viral DNA integrated into a host through gene regulation networks induced by interferons, a branch of innate immunity. These cytokines are first to respond to viral infection and are also important in immunosurveillance for malignant cells. ERVs are predicted to act as cis-regulatory elements, but much of the adaptive consequences of this for certain physiological functions is still unknown. There is data that supports the general role of ERVs in the regulation of human interferon response, specifically to interferon-gamma (IFNG). For example, interferon-stimulated genes were found to be greatly enriched with ERVs bound by signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT1) and/or Interferon regulatory factor (IRF1) in CD14+ macrophages.\n\nHERVs also play various roles shaping the human innate immunity response, with some sequences activating the system and others suppressing it. They may also protect from exogenous retroviral infections: the virus-like transcripts can activate pattern recognition receptors, and the proteins can interfere with active retroviruses. A gag protein from HERV-K(HML2) is shown to mix with HIV Gag, impairing HIV capsid formation as a result.\n\nAnother idea proposed was that ERVs from the same family played a role in recruiting multiple genes into the same network of regulation. It was found that MER41 elements provided addition redundant regulatory enhancement to the genes located near STAT1 binding sites.\n\nFor humans, porcine endogenous retroviruses (PERVs) pose a concern when using porcine tissues and organs in xenotransplantion, the transplanting of living cells, tissues, and organs from an organism of one species to an organism of different species. Although pigs are generally the most suitable donors to treat human organ diseases due to practical, financial, safety, and ethical reasons, PERVs previously could not be removed from pigs due to its viral nature of integrating into the host genome and being passed into offspring until the year 2017 when Dr. George Church's lab removed all 62 retroviruses from the pigs genome. The consequences of cross-species transmission remains unexplored and has very dangerous potential.\n\nResearchers indicated that infection of human tissues by PERVs is very possible, especially in immunosuppressed individuals. An immunosuppressed condition could potentially permit a more rapid and tenacious replication of viral DNA, and would later on have less difficulty adapting to human-to-human transmission. Although known infectious pathogens present in the donor organ/tissue can be eliminated by breeding pathogen-free herds, unknown retroviruses can be present in the donor. These retroviruses are often latent and asymptomatic in the donor, but can become active in the recipient. Some examples of endogenous viruses that can infect and multiply in human cells are from baboons (BaEV), cats (RD114), and mice.\n\nThere are three different classes of PERVs, PERV-A, PERV-B, and PERV-C. PERV-A and PERV-B are polytropic and can infect human cells in vitro, while PERV-C is ecotropic and does not replicate on human cells. The major differences between the classes is in the receptor binding domain of the \"env\" protein and the long terminal repeats (LTRs) that influence the replication of each class. PERV-A and PERV-B display LTRs that have repeats in the U3 region. However, PERV-A and PERV-C show repeatless LTRs. Researchers found that PERVs in culture actively adapted to the repeat structure of their LTR in order to match the best replication performance a host cell could perform. At the end of their study, researchers concluded that repeatless PERV LTR evolved from the repeat-harboring LTR. This was likely to have occurred from insertional mutation and was proven through use of data on LTR and \"env\"/Env. It is thought that the generation of repeatless LTRs could be reflective of an adaptation process of the virus, changing from an exogenous to an endogenous lifestyle.\n\nA clinical trial study performed in 1999 sampled 160 patients who were treated with different living pig tissues and observed no evidence of a persistent PERV infection in 97% of the patients for whom a sufficient amount of DNA was available to PCR for amplification of PERV sequences. This study stated that retrospective studies are limited to find the true incidence of infection or associated clinical symptoms, however. It suggested using closely monitored prospective trials, which would provide a more complete and detailed evaluation of the possible cross-species PERV transmission and a comparison of the PERV.\n\nHuman endogenous retroviruses (HERV) comprise a significant part of the human genome, with approximately 98,000 ERV elements and fragments making up 5–8%. According to a study published in 2005, no HERVs capable of replication had been identified; all appeared to be defective, containing major deletions or nonsense mutations. This is because most HERVs are merely traces of original viruses, having first integrated millions of years ago. An analysis of HERV integrations is ongoing as part of the 100,000 Genomes Project.\n\nHuman endogenous retroviruses were discovered by accident using a couple of different experiments. Human genomic libraries were screened under low-stringency conditions using probes from animal retroviruses, allowing the isolation and characterization of multiple, though defective, proviruses, that represented various families. Another experiment depended on oligonucleotides with homology to viral primer binding sites.\n\nHERVs are classified based on their homologies to animal retroviruses. Families belong to Class I are similar in sequence to mammalian \"Gammaretroviruses\" (type C) and \"Epsilonretroviruses\" (Type E). Families belonging to Class II show homology to mammalian \"Betaretroviruses\" (Type B) and \"Deltaretroviruses\"(Type D). Families belong to Class III are similar to foamy viruses. For all classes, if homologies appear well conserved in the \"gag\", \"pol\", and \"env\" gene, they are grouped into a superfamily. There are more Class I families known to exist. The families themselves are named in a less uniform manner, with a mixture of naming based on an exogenous retrovirus, the priming tRNA (HERV-W, K), or some neighboring gene (HERV-ADP), clong number (HERV-S71), or some amino acid motif (HERV-FRD). A proposed nomenclature aims to clean up the sometimes paraphyletic standards.\n\nThere are two proposals for how HERVs became fixed in the human genome. The first assumes that sometime during human evolution, exogenous progenitors of HERV inserted themselves into germ line cells and then replicated along with the host's genes using and exploiting the host's cellular mechanisms. Because of their distinct genomic structure, HERVs were subjected to many rounds of amplification and transposition, which lead to a widespread distribution of retroviral DNA. The second hypothesis claims the continuous evolution of retro-elements from more simple structured ancestors.\n\nNevertheless, one family of viruses has been active since the divergence of humans and chimpanzees. This family, termed HERV-K (HML2), makes up less than 1% of HERV elements but is one of the most studied. There are indications it has even been active in the past few hundred thousand years, e.g., some human individuals carry more copies of HML2 than others. Traditionally, age estimates of HERVs are performed by comparing the 5' and 3' LTR of a HERV; however, this method is only relevant for full-length HERVs. A recent method, called cross-sectional dating, uses variations within a single LTR to estimate the ages of HERV insertions. This method is more precise in estimating HERV ages and can be used for any HERV insertions. Cross-sectional dating has been used to suggest that two members of HERV-K(HML2), HERV-K106 and HERV-K116, were active in the last 800,000 years and that HERV-K106 may have infected modern humans 150,000 years ago. However, the absence of known infectious members of the HERV-K(HML2) family, and the lack of elements with a full coding potential within the published human genome sequence, suggests to some that the family is less likely to be active at present. In 2006 and 2007, researchers working independently in France and the US recreated functional versions of HERV-K(HML2).\n\nMER41.AIM2 is an HERV that regulates the transcription of AIM2 (Absent in Melanoma 2) which encodes for a sensor of foreign cytosolic DNA. This acts as a binding site for AIM2, meaning that it is necessary for the transcription of AIM2. Researchers had shown this by deleting MER41.AIM2 in HeLa cells using CRISPR/Cas9, leading to an undetectable transcript level of AIM2 in modified HeLa cells. The control cells, which still contained the MER41.AIM2 ERV, were observed with normal amounts of AIM2 transcript. In terms of immunity, researchers concluded that MER41.AIM2 is necessary for an inflammatory response to infection.\n\nImmunological studies have shown some evidence for T cell immune responses against HERVs in HIV-infected individuals. The hypothesis that HIV induces HERV expression in HIV-infected cells led to the proposal that a vaccine targeting HERV antigens could specifically eliminate HIV-infected cells. The potential advantage of this novel approach is that, by using HERV antigens as surrogate markers of HIV-infected cells, it could circumvent the difficulty inherent in directly targeting notoriously diverse and fast-mutating HIV antigens.\n\nThere are a few classes of human endogenous retroviruses that still have intact open reading frames. For example, the expression of HERV-K, a biologically active family of HERV, produces proteins found in placenta. Furthermore, the expression of the envelope genes of HERV-W (ERVW-1)and HERV-FRD (ERVFRD-1) produces syncytins which are important for the generation of the syncytiotrophoblast cell layer during placentogenesis by inducing cell-cell fusion. The HUGO Gene Nomenclature Committee (HGNC) approves gene symbols for transcribed human ERVs.\n\nExample: A porcine ERV (PERV) Chinese-born minipig isolate, PERV-A-BM, was sequenced completely and along with different breeds and cell lines in order to understand its genetic variation and evolution. The observed number of nucleotide substitutions and among the different genome sequences helped researchers determine an estimate age that PERV-A-BM was integrated into its host genome, which was found to be of an evolutionary age earlier than the European-born pigs isolates.\n\nThis technique is used to find histone marks indicative of promoters and enhancers, which are binding sites for DNA proteins, and repressed regions and trimethylation. DNA methylation has been shown to be vital to maintain silencing of ERVs in mouse somatic cells, while histone marks are vital for the same purpose in embryonic stem cells (ESCs) and early embryogenesis.\n\nBecause most HERVs have no function, are selectively neutral, and are very abundant in primate genomes, they easily serve as phylogenetic markers for linkage analysis. They can be exploited by comparing the integration site polymorphisms or the evolving, proviral, nucleotide sequences of orthologs. To estimate when integration occurred, researchers used distances from each phylogenetic tree to find the rate of molecular evolution at each particular locus. It is also useful that ERVs are rich in many species genomes (i.e. plants, insects, mollusks, fish, rodents, domestic pets, and livestock) because its application can be used to answer a variety of phylogenetic questions.\n\nThis is accomplished by comparing the different HERV from different evolutionary periods. For example, this study was done for different hominoids, which ranged from humans to apes and to monkeys. This is difficult to do with PERV because of the large diversity present.\n\nResearchers could analyze individual epigenomes and transcriptomes to study the reactivation of dormant transposable elements through epigenetic release and their potential associations with human disease and exploring the specifics of gene regulatory networks.\n\nLittle is known about an effective way to overcoming hyperacute rejection (HAR), which follows the activation of complement initiated by xenoreactive antibodies recognizing galactosyl-alpha1-3galatosyl (alpha-Gal) antigens on the donor epithelium.\n\nBecause retroviruses are able to recombine with each other and with other endogenous DNA sequences, it would be beneficial for gene therapy to explore the potential risks HERVs can cause, if any. Also, this ability of HERVs to recombine can be manipulated for site-directed integration by including HERV sequences in retroviral vectors.\n\nResearchers believe that RNA and proteins encoded for by HERV genes should continue to be explored for putative function in cell physiology and in pathological conditions. This would make sense to examine in order to more deeply define the biological significance of the proteins synthesized.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2311906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2311906", "title": "Bad Buchau", "text": "Bad Buchau\n\nBad Buchau () (formerly Buchau) is a small town in the district of Biberach, Baden-Württemberg, Germany with about 4,000 inhabitants. It is situated near Lake Federsee, which is separated from the town by a wide reed belt.\n\nBad Buchau incorporates the nine villages of Allmannsweiler, Dürnau, Kanzach, Betzenweiler, Moosburg, Alleshausen, Seekirch, Tiefenbach, and Oggelshausen, as well as the outlying farm settlements of Ottobeurer Hof, Bruckhof, and Henauhof. Also part of Bad Buchau is the formerly independent district of Kappel.\n\nThe official language is German, with day-to-day conversations by the majority of its inhabitants in the Swabian dialect.\n\nFrom the 13th century to the mediatisation of 1803, Buchau had the particularity of being the seat of both an Imperial Abbey and a Free Imperial City. In terms of area, it was one of the smallest such cities and its island situation eliminated the necessity to erect city walls and towers. Buchau, however, lost its insular benefits after the water level of Lake Federsee had been lowered on two occasions.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe prehistoric settlement at Siedlung Forschner is part of the Prehistoric Pile dwellings around the Alps a UNESCO World Heritage Site.\n\nThe most prominent company is Franz Kessler GmbH, based in Bad Buchau's light industrial area of Kappel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2311908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2311908", "title": "Peace B. Remixes", "text": "Peace B. Remixes\n\nPeace B. Remixes is BoA's first Japanese remix album.\n\n"}
{"id": "2311909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2311909", "title": "Long Sutton, Somerset", "text": "Long Sutton, Somerset\n\nLong Sutton is a village and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated south of Somerton in the South Somerset district. The village has a population of 833.\n\nThe village of Long Sutton has a village green with a lime tree at each corner and a chestnut tree in the centre. The Devonshire Arms Hotel is at one end of the green and at the other are the school and Holy Trinity church, dating from 1490. The village is made up of two hamlets, Knole at one end and Upton at the other.\n\nThe Reading to Taunton line railway runs under the bridge at Upton and at one time certain trains stopped at Long Sutton and Pitney Halt, as it was called until its closure in the early 1960s. The bridge over the River Yeo is medieval in origin, but was probably reshaped in the 18th century.\n\nThere is evidence of Roman occupation throughout the parish. It was recorded in the Domesday Book as Sutone. The parish of Long Sutton was part of the hundred of Somerton.\n\nThe manor was given by King Alfred to his Athelney Abbey and was held by the abbey until the dissolution of the monasteries in 1539. In 1600 it was bought by Sir John Spencer, who was previously the Lord Mayor of London. It was later part of the estates of the Duke of Devonshire, who dispersed it in 1919.\n\nUntil the 20th century agriculture remained the main industry. The population has remained between 800 and 1,000 from about 1800.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council's operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the Non-metropolitan district of South Somerset, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, having previously been part of Langport Rural District. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nThe village is in Turn Hill electoral ward. \"Long Sutton\" may be the most populous area of the ward but it stretches west to Aller. The total population of this ward taken at the 2011 census was 2,830.\n\nIt is also part of the Somerton and Frome county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nOpposite the Quaker Meeting House, known as Quakers' Corner, are two cottages, once thatched. In one of these cottages it is said that Mrs Palmer of Huntley & Palmers fame made her first biscuits and cakes to help provide for her family. Some of the gravestones mark the resting place of the Palmer family in the grounds of the Friends' Meeting House.\n\nThe Manor House, on the green, probably dates from the late 15th century. Court House on Langport road is from a similar period.\n\nKnole has a waterwheel dating from 1879, having been moved from a site higher upstream where it was first recorded in 1479–80. The wheel is in diameter and in width and was cast by ‘The Somerset Wheel & Wagon Co, Engineers & Millwrights, Martock’.\n\nHoly Trinity church dates from 1493. An earlier church would have stood on this site from the 9th century or earlier. The current church was built of local lias stone cut and squared, with hamstone dressings. It has stone slate roofs between stepped coped gabled with finials to the chancel and north porch. Internally, the chancel has a ceiled wagon-roof, with moulded ribs and plaster panels. The tower exhibits the tracery typical of Somerset towers. The under-tower space has a lierne vault, and a 15th-century octagonal font with quatrefoil panels. The building has been designated by English Heritage as a Grade I listed building. The tower has a ring of six bells, the tenor weighing .\n\nThe coloured timber pulpit, with a fly approach stair, dates from 1455–58 and is older than the church itself. It has 20th-century wood figures in the statue niches. It bears the initials identified as those of Abbot John Petherton of Athelney and vicar William Singleton.\n\nThe wood screen is also ornately carved and dates from the late 15th century. Memorials in the church include a tablet to Elizabeth Banbury, died 1716, with Corinthian columns and entablature, side and bottom swags, as well as a number of 16th- and 17th-century Keinton stone slabs in the floor.\n\nThe parish was a centre of Quaker worship from 1662, and there was a licensed meeting-house by 1669. The present Quaker Meeting House was built in Queen Anne style and finished in 1717, with a bequest from William Steele. It is still used for worship by the Quakers. It was closed briefly in 1793 and 1798, but prospered after the closure of the Somerton meeting house in 1828. There is a mounting block outside the building, which worshippers used to mount and dismount their horses. Worshippers came from as far away as Street, nearly seven miles away.\n\nPunkie Night originated many years ago and was started by farm labourers to light their way home after work. An alternative explanation of the term is that it is derived from pumpkin or punk, meaning tinder. It is now the \"children's night\" and held on the nearest night to Halloween. The children carry their \"punkies\" made from either mangolds, turnips, or marrows, which are hollowed out and faces or animals carved on them. They are lit with a candle inside similar to the modern Halloween custom.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2311914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2311914", "title": "Brigham's Ice Cream", "text": "Brigham's Ice Cream\n\nBrigham's Ice Cream is an ice cream manufacturer and was formerly a restaurant franchise. Brigham's is sold in quart cartons throughout New England, and was served at franchised restaurants located in Massachusetts until 2013. It was founded in Newton Highlands, Massachusetts. Since the purchase by HP Hood, its offices are located at 6 Kimball Lane, Lynnfield, MA 01940. The company maintains a strong regional identity, using regional terms such as \"wicked\" (extremely) and \"frappe\" (milkshake with ice cream), and makes reference to events with special significance to New Englanders, such as the Big Dig and the 2004 World Series. At one time there were 100 Brigham's restaurant locations with the last holdout in Arlington, Massachusetts, when it finally changed its name in August 2015. The ice cream is currently owned and manufactured by Hood.\n\nBrigham's was founded in 1914 by Edward L. Brigham in Newton Highlands, Massachusetts. In 1914, Brigham opened a shop, where he sold ice cream and candy, which he made in the back of the store. Originally, ice cream was sold for five cents and sundaes for 20 cents. Brigham's ice cream became so popular that the local police were called upon to control weekend crowds. In 1929, Brigham's merged with Symmes' Durand Company, establishing the basis of today's Brigham's with the opening of three additional stores and an ice cream manufacturing plant. Throughout the 1930s and 1940s business flourished and 20 new stores opened.\n\nIn 1961, Brigham's was acquired by Star Markets. Forty new stores opened, offering sandwiches and ice cream in a new colonial-style setting. Brigham's was acquired by Jewel Companies in 1964 when Jewel acquired Brigham's parent, Star Markets. In 1968, Brigham's acquired Buttrick's, a small chain of colonial-style restaurants based in Arlington, Massachusetts. This location became the Brigham's new home office until its sale to HP Hood, at which time this location was closed. At its height, Brigham's had 100 restaurants in the New England area. In 1982, Jewel Companies sold Brigham's to privately held owners. Responding to consumer demands, Brigham's debuted quarts of its ice cream in supermarkets in 1983 and today boasts distribution in every major supermarket in New England.\n\nBrigham's bought Élan Frozen Yogurt in 1993, to expand and improve the menu towards the ever-growing frozen-dessert industry. The purchase enabled Brigham's to enter the New York region as well as additional demographic markets. In 2003, Brigham's launched its first novelty, the Brigham's Ice Cream Bar.\n\nOn June 27, 2008, in a secured creditor transaction led by the company's senior debt holder, Cambridge Savings Bank, Brigham's was split into two companies and sold to HP Hood LLC and Luke Cooper of Deal Metrics, LLC.\n\nBrigham's restaurants did not survive the merger and in 2009, the company filed for bankruptcy and eventually closed all company-owned restaurants. Franchised locations continued to operate until 2013, when the four remaining franchise locations (Arlington Heights, Hingham, North Andover, and Quincy) were forced to drop the brand from their store names. The Arlington Heights location became Digumms in August 2015 (closed in December 2016), the Hingham location became Patti's Place (since closed), Quincy became The Ice Cream Parlour, and North Andover location is now called Fari's Diner.\n\nHood, identified as BIC Acquisitions, LLC, continues to market Brigham's ice cream in stores and owns the trademarks and official website.\n\n"}
{"id": "2311921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2311921", "title": "Lopen", "text": "Lopen\n\nLopen is a village and civil parish in the South Somerset district of Somerset, England, situated west of Yeovil. The village has a population of 260 people.\n\nThe name of the village means \"Lufa's pen or fold\".\n\nA Roman mosaic, probably from a Roman villa, was found in the village in 2001. The Lopen Roman Mosaic was discovered by George Caton who was operating a mechanical digger and noticed small cubes of coloured stone, which turned out to be part of the floor of an eight-roomed Roman Villa and is the largest Roman Mosaic so far discovered in Britain. Photogrammetry by English Heritage was followed by excavation led by the Somerset County Council archaeologist exposed and documented the mosaic in three weeks. It was then covered with sand and soil to preserve it. The work was recognised with the award of the Tarmac Finders Award (for non professionals) at the British Archaeological Awards in 2002. The stones used for the mosaic are Blue Lias from the surrounding hills. The fragments which were discovered in the surrounding soil were used to create a new mosaic, featuring a cantharus, using methods which would have been available in Roman times. It is now displayed in All Saints Church.\n\nLopen is listed in the Domesday Book, with three manors, one of which was held by the Knights Templar. These were bought by the Poulett's of Hinton St George in 1560s. The parish of Lopen was part of the South Petherton Hundred.\n\nIn the 18th century the parish was noted for flax growing and for the production of linen sailcloth and twine. These industries continuing until the end of World War II. A mill had first been recorded in the parish around 1285. The mill was a water/grist mill until the mid 18th, then becoming jointly used as a grain mill and for linen production.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council's operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the Non-metropolitan district of South Somerset, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, having previously been part of Chard Rural District. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nLopen is part of the Yeovil county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. However, in the Boundary Commission proposal of 2011 it would become part of a new constituency provisionally called Glastonbury and Wincanton. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nThe parish of Lopen is bounded to the north by the A303 Trunk Road and to the south by Lopen Brook with the road from South Petherton to Merriott, Crewkerne and the south coast running through the middle. Between Lopenhead and Lopen the road crosses the ancient Roman Fosse Way, which at this point is just a minor country lane.\n\nThe main retail outlets in the parish are the pub and an organic food shop at Lopen Head, but although they are in the parish they are not really in the village itself which is located half a mile to the south. Furthermore, the road from Lopenhead to Lopen descends steeply through a deep and twisty cutting with no pedestrian pavement, consequently these outlets cannot safely be reached on foot from the village.\nRecently a Farm shop had opened at Osborne's on the Merriott Road just south of the village centre selling fruit and vegetables.\n\nThe Anglican parish Church of All Saints has 12th- or 13th-century origins, but was largely rebuilt in the 14th and 15th centuries with the north transept being added in 1833. As Lopen chapel it was granted to Bruton Priory in 1209 becoming dependent on South Petherton church, later passing to Bristol Cathedral and obtaining burial rights in 1574.\n\nPunkie Night is celebrated in the village of Hinton St George each October.\n\n"}
{"id": "2311924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2311924", "title": "List of rowing venues", "text": "List of rowing venues\n\nThis list of rowing venues contains the rowing sites, that allow for international rowing regattas (2,000 m), as described by FISA. Most of these sites have hosted an Olympic or world championship regatta.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2311925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2311925", "title": "Maurice K. Goddard State Park", "text": "Maurice K. Goddard State Park\n\nMaurice K. Goddard State Park is a Pennsylvania state park in Deer Creek, Mill Creek, New Vernon and Sandy Lake Townships, Mercer County, Pennsylvania in the United States. It features wildlife, waterways and public recreational facilities. Lake Wilhelm shares its shorelines with Maurice K. Goddard State Park and State Game Land No. 270. The dam, constructed in 1971, creates a lake providing a resource for people and wildlife. Many species of fish and amphibians make Lake Wilhelm their home. A variety of outdoor activities are available in and around the park vicinity. Special events and programs are held throughout the summer months. Maurice K. Goddard State Park is just off exit 130 of Interstate 79 on Pennsylvania Route 358.\n\nSandy Creek, the stream that was dammed to create Lake Wilhelm, was noted in reports made by George Washington during his 1753 trip to Fort LeBoeuf during the French and Indian War. Sandy Creek had a recurring history of flooding. This led to a study by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The study began in 1939. Plans were delayed by the start of World War II but the citizens of Mercer County could see the benefit of building a flood control dam on Sandy Creek. The state, county, township and municipal authorities of the surrounding area worked together to push forward the idea of building the dam and recreational facilities in Mercer County. The land was acquired in the late 1960s. Construction on the dam began soon after and was completed in 1971. Maurice K. Goddard State Park was opened to the public in 1972.\n\nMaurice K. Goddard State park is named for Maurice K. Goddard. Goddard was a graduate of the University of Maine and the University of California at Berkeley. After reaching the rank of Lieutenant Colonel during World War II, Goddard came to Pennsylvania where he took a job at Mont Alto Forestry School and later at Penn State Main Campus before he was appointed Secretary of the Pennsylvania Bureau of Forests and Waters, a forerunner of the Pennsylvania Department of Conservation and Natural Resources. Upon taking his position with the state, Goddard set about completing his goal of having a state park within of every resident of Pennsylvania. When Goddard retired in 1979, after 24 years working for the state parks, he had helped to add 45 state parks and over of state park land to the Pennsylvania State Park system.\n\nThe variety of habitats at Maurice K. Goddard State Park attracts a variety of birds. Bald eagles and osprey can be seen flying over Lake Wilhelm as they scan the waters for fish. The old fields and forests are home to woodcocks, nighthawks, snipes, and a variety of warblers. Migrating waterfowl like the loon, common teal, goldeneye, merganser, and bufflehead stop by Lake Wilhelm in the spring and fall. Woodpeckers including the pileated woodpecker live in the woods of the park. Bluebirds and purple martins make their homes in the old fields and meadows of Maurice K. Goddard State Park.\n\nLake Wilhelm is a warm water fishery, it lies partly within Maurice K. Goddard State Park and partly within the adjoining game lands. The common game fish found in the lake are largemouth and smallmouth bass, perch, crappie, bluegill, catfish, walleye, northern pike and muskellunge. All fishermen are expected to follow the rules and regulations of the Pennsylvania Fish and Boat Commission. Five natural gas wells have been drilled around Lake Wilhelm as of May 2009, with up to 15 more to follow. The state does not own the mineral rights under much of the park, but did work with the driller to minimize the impact of the wells on recreational uses of the park.\n\nThe portions of Lake Wilhelm that are within Maurice K. Goddard State Park are open to watercraft up to . There is a 241 space marina and a 48 space dry land mooring area that is open from May 1 to October 31. The marina has an ample parking lot for cars and trucks with trailers. There are four boat launches, a marina building and a fueling station. Rowboats, peddle boats, canoes and kayaks are available to rent. Only non-powered boats are permitted in the portions of the lake that are within the state game land boundaries. All vessels must have a current registration from any state or a launch permit from the Pennsylvania Fish and Boat Commission.\n\nThere are over that open to hunting at Maurice K. Goddard State Park. Hunters are expected to follow the rules and regulations of the Pennsylvania Game Commission. The common game species are waterfowl and white-tailed deer. The hunting of groundhogs is prohibited. Hunters may gain access to the nearby state game lands by entering through the park.\n\nMaurice K. Goddard State Park is open during the winter months for ice fishing, ice boating, ice skating, sledding and tobogganing, cross-country skiing and snowmobiling.\n\nThe Friends of Goddard State Park (FRoG) partner with the park to help conserve the natural environment of the areas within and around Goddard State Park by educating and introducing people to the world of nature and the facilities available to them. The Friends group also organizes two big events for the park: the Pioneer Frolic and Music at the Marina. The Pioneer Frolic takes place the last weekend in June and includes reenactors, food vendors, live music, and other entertainment. Music at the Marina showcases local bands and independent musicians with the addition of food vendors, a car cruise, and fireworks. Both events feature a donation-based book sale and have free admission.\n\nFriends of Goddard State Park also known as \"FroG\" is a sub-chapter of the Pennsylvania Parks and Forest Foundation and a non-profit 501(3)c organization.\n\nThe following state parks are within of Maurice K. Goddard State Park:\n"}
{"id": "2311926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2311926", "title": "Lovington, Somerset", "text": "Lovington, Somerset\n\nLovington is a village and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated south west of Castle Cary, between the River Brue and River Cary, in the South Somerset district. The parish, which includes the hamlet of Wheathill, has a population of 141.\n\nThe name of the village comes from Old English meaning \"Lufa's settlement\".\n\nThere was a mill on the River Brue in the village at the time of the Domesday Book, when it was held by Serlo de Burci, however it is not certain whether this is the same site as the current Lovington Mill which was built around 1800.\n\nThe parish of Lovington was part of the hundred of Catsash, while Wheathill was part of the Whitley Hundred.\n\nThe village school was built in the early 19th century, and was helped later in the century, with donations and equipment, by the local priest and hymn writer Godfrey Thring.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the Non-metropolitan district of South Somerset, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, having previously been part of Wincanton Rural District. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nIt is also part of the Somerton and Frome county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nThe Anglican parish Church of St Thomas of Canterbury has 13th-century origins and was restored and enlarged in 1861. It has been designated as a Grade II* listed building. The Church of St John Baptist was converted into a private house in the 1970s.\n\nIn the 1780s Thomas Charles held the curacy of Lovington along with several other local parishes.\n"}
{"id": "2311927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2311927", "title": "Running the gauntlet", "text": "Running the gauntlet\n\nTo run the gauntlet is to take part in a form of corporal punishment in which the party judged guilty is forced to run between two rows of soldiers, who strike out and attack him.\n\nThe word originates from , from \"lane\" and \"course, running\". It was borrowed into English in the 17th century, probably from English and Swedish soldiers fighting in the Protestant armies during the Thirty Years' War. The word in English was originally spelled \"gantelope\" or \"gantlope\", but soon its pronunciation was influenced by the unrelated word \"gauntlet\", meaning an armored glove, derived from the . The spelling changed with the pronunciation. Both senses of \"gauntlet\" had the variant spelling \"gantlet\". For the punishment, the spelling \"gantlet\" is preferred in American English usage guides by Bryan Garner and Robert Hartwell Fiske and is listed as a variant spelling of \"gauntlet\" by American dictionaries\".\" British dictionaries label \"gantlet\" as American.\n\nKnown as \"Xylokopia\" in Ancient Greece, used as a severe military punishment and Fustuarium (a Latin abstraction from the Latin \"fustis\", a branch or rod) in the Roman military as a form of execution by cudgeling (clubbing).\n\nIt could also be applied to every tenth man of a whole unit as a mode of decimation.\n\nA very similar military punishment found in later armies was known as \"running the gauntlet\". The condemned soldier was stripped to the waist and had to pass between a double row (hence also known as \"die Gasse\", \"the alley\") of cudgeling or switching comrades. A subaltern walked in front of him with a blade to prevent him from running. The condemned might sometimes also be dragged through by a rope around the hands or prodded along by a pursuer.\n\nVarious rules might apply, such as banning edged weapons, requiring the group to keep one foot in place, or allowing the soldier to attempt to protect his head with his hands. The punishment was not necessarily continued until death. If so, he might be finished off when unable to walk or if he managed to reach the end of rows. Running the gauntlet was considered far less of a dishonor than a beating (with exposure to ridicule) on the pillory, pranger, or stocks, since one could \"take it like a man\" upright and among soldiers.\n\nIn some traditions, if the condemned was able to finish the run and exit the gauntlet at the far end, his faults would be deemed paid, and he would rejoin his comrades with a clean slate. Elsewhere, he was sent back through the gauntlet until death.\n\n\nIn the early records of the Dutch colonial settlement of New Amsterdam appears a detailed description of running the \"Gantlope/Gantloppe\" as a punishment for the \"Court Martial of Melchior Claes\" (a soldier). It states \"... The Court Marshall doe adjudge that hee shall run the Gantlope once the length of the fort, where according to the Custome of that punishment the souldyers shall have switches delivered to them with which they shall strike him as he passes through them stript to the wast, and at the fort gate the Marshall is to receive him and there to kick him out of the Garrison as a cashiered person where hee is no more to returne ...\"\n\nIn Sweden, running the gauntlet was also a civilian punishment for certain crimes until the 18th century. The practice also persisted in parts of Germany (mainly Prussia) and Austria as the \"\", or \"pike-run\", and also in Russia, until the 19th century.\n\nA notable description of the process appears in Tolstoy's short story \"After the Ball\"; it is also depicted in Stanley Kubrick's film \"Barry Lyndon\". In Ernest Hemingway's \"For Whom The Bell Tolls\", the aristocrats of the town are subjected to a form of the gauntlet wherein they are led to and run off a cliff by villagers.\n\nAn example of the Royal Navy's variation of the gauntlet can be seen in the \"Hornblower\" film \"The Examination for Lieutenant\", wherein Acting Lieutenant Hornblower and Matthews take the role of Master-at-Arms and Corporal and lead a sailor through the Gauntlet. The sailor in question was carefully guided through by swordpoint - one sword ahead of him (Hornblower's) to ensure that he did not rush through the Gauntlet, and one sword at his back (Matthews') to ensure he did not run away and was also moved through the Gauntlet. The film shows the lacerations caused by the knittles were effective, with blood running freely down the condemned man's back by the time a halt to the process was called for by Captain Sir Edward Pellew.\n\nIn \"Outlander\" season 4, Young Ian Murray and Roger Wakefield both run the gauntlet for the Mohawk to determine if they are adopted into the tribe, or must remain prisoners.\n\nA number of Native American tribes of the Eastern Woodlands culture area forced prisoners to run the gauntlet (see Captives in American Indian Wars). The Jesuit Isaac Jogues was subject to this treatment while a prisoner of the Iroquois in 1641. He described the ordeal in a letter that appears in the book \"The Jesuit Martyrs of North America\": \"Before arriving (at the Iroquois Village) we met the young men of the country, in a line armed with sticks...\", and he and his fellow Frenchmen were made to walk slowly past them \"for the sake of giving time to anyone who struck us.\"\n\nThe original meanings of the phrase notwithstanding, the expression \"(to run) the gauntlet\" has been applied to various less severe punishments or tests, often consisting of consecutive blows or tasks endured sequentially and delivered collectively, especially by colleagues such as roommates or fraternity brothers. As these do not usually cause serious injuries, only bearable pain, the rituals are sometimes eagerly anticipated by the initiate as a sign of acceptance into a more prestigious group. Because of this, Running the gauntlet is considered a Hazing ritual.\n\nThe phrase \"running the gauntlet\" has also been used, informally, to express the idea of a public but painless, ritual humiliation such as the walk of shame or perp walk, or to indicate a series of difficult trials that one must overcome.\n\nDuring the days of the People's Republic of Poland, the Communist authorities forced political dissidents, criminals, protestors, and prisoners through a gauntlet-like process, which they called the \"\"ścieżka zdrowia\"\" (literally \"health path\", but idiomatically used to mean early fitness trails).\n\nIn \"KOR, A History of the Worker's Defense Committee in Poland, 1976–1981\", Jan Józef Lipski documents the experience of one such criminal during the June 1976 protests:\n\nSimilar practices are used in other initiations and rites of passage, as on pollywogs (those passing the equator for the first time; includes a paddling version) or in aviation when a new pilot gets their first license. It has also been used to \"tack on\" a recently promoted enlisted person's rank insignia.\n\nIn one Tailhook Association convention for Navy and Marine Corps pilots, female participants were allegedly forced to run the gauntlet in a hotel hallway as male participants fondled them.\n\n\n\nIn University of Padua, where \"goliardia\" is still an important part of college life, graduation is often celebrated (among other things) by running the gauntlet as friends and colleagues slap and kick the \"laureato\" (graduate or bachelor).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2311929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2311929", "title": "Maperton", "text": "Maperton\n\nMaperton is a village and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated south west of Wincanton in the South Somerset district. The village has a population of 140. However, this small number includes Elliscombe House care home which alone has an average of 40 residents.\n\nThe name of the village means \"maple settlement\" and is pronounced \"Mayperton\". This pronunciation is particularly used by newer residents but many older residents use the alternative pronunciation \"map-er-ton\".\nIn the Domesday Book of 1086 the manor is recorded as held by Turstin FitzRolf.\nThe manor was held by Francis Hastings of North Cadbury around 1600.\n\nThe parish was part of the hundred of Catsash.\n\nEarthworks show the site of a village, with a village pond, and ridge and furrow agriculture from the Middle Ages south of Wyke Champflower.\n\nMaperton House was built in the 19th century, but incorporates some 18th-century fragments from a previous manor house which stood on the same site. (Not to be confused with \"Mapperton\" House, seat of the Earls of Sandwich, near Beaminster in Dorset.)\n\nMaperton is grouped with Holton and North Cheriton as the North Vale Group Parish. The parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the Blackmore Vale ward Non-metropolitan district of South Somerset, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, having previously been part of Wincanton Rural District. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nIt is also part of the Somerton and Frome county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nThe Anglican parish Church of St Peter and St Paul has a tower dating from the late 15th century, with the remainder of the church being rebuilt in 1869 by Henry Hall. It has been designated as a Grade II listed building. It was a favourite venue for clandestine weddings in the early 18th century.\n\nDue to deterioration of the red clay tile roof, the church has been placed on the Heritage at Risk Register.\n"}
{"id": "2311930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2311930", "title": "Hatay State", "text": "Hatay State\n\nHatay State (, , \"Dawlat Khaṭāy\"), also known informally as the Republic of Hatay, was a transitional political entity that existed from September 7, 1938, to June 29, 1939, in the territory of the Sanjak of Alexandretta of the French Mandate of Syria. The state was transformed \"de jure\" into the Hatay Province of Turkey on July 7, 1939, \"de facto\" joining the country on July 23, 1939. Hatay Province includes districts of Erzin, Dörtyol and Hassa in addition to former Hatay State territories.\n\nFormerly part of the Aleppo Vilayet of the Ottoman Empire, the Sanjak of Alexandretta was occupied by France at the end of World War I and constituted part of the French Mandate of Syria.\n\nThe Sanjak of Alexandretta was an autonomous sanjak from 1921 to 1923, as a result of the French-Turkish treaty of October 20, 1921, considering the presence of an important Turkish community along with Arab and Armenian ones. Then it was attached to the State of Aleppo, then in 1925 it was directly attached to the State of Syria, still with a special administrative status.\n\nTurkey under Mustafa Kemal Atatürk refused to accept the Sanjak of Alexandretta to be part of the Mandate and, in a speech on March 15, 1923 in Adana, claimed, that it was \"a Turkish homeland for 40 centuries\" and that \"can't be a captive at the hands of enemy\". In truth, the Turks first appeared in Anatolia during the 11th century when the Seljuk Turks occupied the eastern province of the Abbasid Empire and captured Baghdad. Turkish politics aimed at incorporating the Sanjak of Alexandretta when the French mandate of Syria would expire in 1935. Local Turks initiated reforms in the style of Atatürk's, formed various organisations and institutions in order to promote the idea of union with Turkey.\nIn 1936, the elections returned two Syrian independentist MPs (favoring the independence of Syria from France) in the sanjak, and this prompted communal riots and passionate articles in the Turkish and Syrian press. In particular, Arab nationalist Zaki al-Arsuzi was influential in anti-irredentist agitation.\n\nIn response, Atatürk government coined the name \"Hatay\" for the Sanjak of Alexandretta, as a reference to Hittites (Syro-Hittite states), and raised the \"Issue of Hatay\" () at the League of Nations. On behalf of the League of Nations, representatives of France, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Belgium and Turkey prepared a constitution for the sanjak. The new statute came into power in November 1937, the Sanjak becoming 'distinct but not separated' from Syria on the diplomatic level, linked to both France and Turkey for defense matters.\n\nOn September 2, 1938, the sanjak assembly proclaimed the Sanjak of Alexandretta as the Hatay State. The State lasted for one year under joint French and Turkish military supervision.\n\nOn June 29, 1939, following a referendum, the Hatay legislature voted to disestablish the Hatay State and join Turkey. This referendum has been labelled both \"phoney\" and \"rigged\" by some, and a way for the French to let Turks take over the area, hoping that they would turn on Hitler. For the referendum, Turkey crossed tens of thousands of Turks into Alexandretta to register as citizens and vote.\n\nSyrian President Hashim al-Atassi resigned in protest at continued French intervention in Syrian affairs, maintaining that the French were obliged to refuse the annexation under the Franco-Syrian Treaty of Independence of 1936.\n\nHatay State People Assembly (), consisted of 40 members, whom 22 were Turks, 9 Alawites, 5 Armenians, 2 Orthodox Greeks and 2 Sunni Arabs.\n\nOn July 7, 1939, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey approved the law establishing the Hatay Province and incorporating districts from Adana Province (then Seyhan Province) and Gaziantep Province. By July 23, 1939, the last vestiges of the French Mandate authorities had left Antakya, and the territory was fully annexed to Turkey. The result was a flight of many Arabs and Armenians to Syria. The region's Armenian population had particular reasons to be fearful, having been survivors of the Armenian Genocide, who had fled for their lives to the French Mandate of Syria and therefore weren't able to contemplate Turkish sovereignty. Following the annexation, almost the entire Armenian population of Hatay left the province and resided in Aleppo, with many others moving to Lebanon where they founded the modern town of Anjar near the ruins of its historic castle.\n\nAccording to the estimates of the French high commission in 1936, out of a population of 220,000 39% were Turks, 28% Arabic-speaking Alawites, 11% Armenians, 10% Sunni Arabs, 8% other Christians and 4% were Circassians, Kurds and Jews. Although Turks formed the largest single ethno-religious minority, Arabic speakers including Sunnis, Alawites and Christians were more numerous.\n\nThe Republic of Hatay is seen when Indiana Jones and his father meet up with Sallah in Hatay, where they learn of Marcus' abduction. The Nazis have been equipped by the Sultan of Hatay, in exchange for a Rolls-Royce Phantom II, and are already moving toward the Grail's location, using the map possessed by Marcus Brody.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2311933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2311933", "title": "Marston Magna", "text": "Marston Magna\n\nMarston Magna (also known as Broad or Great Marston) is a village and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated north of Yeovil in the South Somerset district. The village has a population of 523.\n\nThe name Marston Magna means \"larger settlement by a marsh\".\n\nIt was held as nine separate estates before the Norman Conquest.\n\nThe parish was part of the hundred of Horethorne.\n\nThe site of the medieval manor house survives as a moat and fish ponds south of the village.\n\nIn the early 18th century the estate was held by Sir John St Barbe, 1st Baronet (d.1723) and was passed on through the families of Ashington and Sydenham of Combe, Dulverton, Somerset.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the Non-metropolitan district of South Somerset, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, having previously been part of Yeovil Rural District. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism. Marston Magna is part of the electoral ward of Camelot.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nIt is also part of the Somerton and Frome county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nThe manor house on Church Green dates from 1613.\n\nThe Church of St Mary can date its origins to before the Norman Conquest, however the present building largely dates from around 1360, with further rebuilding in the 15th century. It has been designated as a grade I listed building. The church was held by Polsloe Priory, near Exeter from the 12th century until the dissolution of the monasteries.\n\nIn the 1992 novel \"The English Patient\", Marston Magna features as the home of the character Madox. In the novel, Madox travels by bus to the nearby town of Yeovil and commits suicide in an unnamed church there.\n\nIn the film of the book, the character is referred to in Anthony Minghella's screenplay as coming from the county of Dorset.\n"}
{"id": "2311938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2311938", "title": "River Slea", "text": "River Slea\n\nThe River Slea is a tributary of the River Witham, in Lincolnshire, England. In 1872 the river was described as \"a never-ending source of pure water\", and was a trout river renowned throughout the East coast of England. But in the late 1960s, the Anglian Water Authority took control of the river, and thereafter it became rapidly degraded, due mostly to over-abstraction of water for use in farming.\n\nThe Slea rises near West Willoughby, two miles south-west of Ancaster, at an altitude of 70 metres. The river descends 30 metres in the first 3 km of its course through Ancaster before flowing past a Site of Special Scientific Interest (alongside Sleaford Golf Club) into Sleaford.\n\nThrough Sleaford it flows above ground in two separate courses, and then curves around the foot of The Hub where a new riverside sculpture walk follows it. Leaving Sleaford, it passes Haverholme and runs down through South Kyme where it is known as the Kyme Eau to join the River Witham at Chapel Hill.\n\nThe River Slea was made navigable from the Witham up to Sleaford in 1794, although these navigations were closed in 1878, having been made uneconomic by the arrival of the railway in 1857. There is now an active Sleaford Navigation Trust that aims to reopen to navigations again as far as Sleaford.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2311940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2311940", "title": "No. 1 (BoA album)", "text": "No. 1 (BoA album)\n\nNo. 1 is the second studio album by South Korean singer BoA, released on April 14, 2002 by SM Entertainment.\n\nThe Japanese issue of \"No.1\" includes an exclusive bonus track \"No.1 (English Version)\".\n\nThere are only limited copies of the first pressing of the album which sold out just in weeks. The first press includes \"No.1 (Original Version)\", \"My Sweetie (Original Version)\", and \"Listen to my Heart (Big Chorus Version)\". Later pressings of the album contain \"No.1 (Music Video Version)\" and \"My Sweetie (Corrected Version)\" (featuring a slightly amended ending).\n\nThe album debuted at #1 in the Korean Top 50 Monthly Chart with initial monthly sales of 232,400 in April 2002 and stayed at #1 the next 4 months. \"No.1\" placed #2 on the list of the best-selling albums in Korea for 2002, with reported sales of 544,853 that year.\n\nIn a case spanning 13 years, Universal Music Korea and songwriter, Kim Young Ah, were locked in a lawsuit regarding the proper lyrics writer credit for the album's title track.\n\nIn 2002, Kim was asked to write the lyrics for “No. 1” and was paid 2 million won (approx. 1,800 USD) from SM Entertainment after the song was accepted. Shortly afterwards, SM signed a music copyright licensing contract with Universal Music Korea. Since the song was not registered with the Korea Music Copyright Association prior to the contract, Universal Music Korea registered “No. 1” in 2003. However, they listed the songwriter/lyrics writer for the song as Sigurd Rosnes (Ziggy) and the original copyright holder as Saphary Songs.\n\nIn 2011, Kim requested to the Korea Music Copyright Association that they delay payment of royalties to Universal Music, and in 2012, she filed the lawsuit for confirmation of being the lyrics writer for the song.\n\nOn July 6, 2015, the South Korean Supreme Court ruled that in Kim's favor. Besides getting officially credited as the song's lyrics writer, she will be receiving 45 million won (approx. 40,000 USD) in royalties, as well as 5 million won (approx. 4,400 USD) in compensation for her psychological distress due to the issue.\n\nPromotional songs are in bold.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2311946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2311946", "title": "Fish Hoek", "text": "Fish Hoek\n\nFish Hoek (, meaning either Fish Corner or Fish Glen) is a coastal town at the eastern end of the Fish Hoek Valley on the False Bay side of the Cape Peninsula in Cape Town, South Africa. Previously a separate municipality, Fish Hoek is now part of the City of Cape Town. As a coastal suburb of Cape Town, Fish Hoek is popular as a residence for commuters, retired people and holidaymakers alike. The traditional industries of 'trek' fishing and angling coexist with the leisure pursuits of surfing, sailing and sunbathing.\n\nFish Hoek, \"Vissers Baay\" or \"Visch Hoek\" appears on the earliest maps of the Cape. \n\nFish Hoek beach was used on an informal basis for whaling and fishing, but it was not until 1918 that it was laid out as a township. Diplomat Edmund Roberts visited Fish Hoek in 1833. He described it as a \"poor village\" with a whaling industry.\n\nThe first grant of Crown land in Fish Hoek was granted to Andries Bruins in 1818. The land was sold several times before being bought by Hester Sophia de Kock in 1883. She was then a spinster of 51 years old. In 1901, late in life, she married a local farmer, one Jacob Isaac de Villiers, who came to live with her on the farm. Although she farmed wheat and vegetables, she started providing accommodation for people who wanted to stay in Fish Hoek, and so became the first local tourist entrepreneur. Having realized that Fish Hoek was becoming popular, she left instructions in her will that the farm was to be surveyed and the land sold as building plots. \n\nAfter the deaths of Hester and Jacob, the land was sold off, the first sale taking place in 1918. The oldest house on the bay, now named Uitkyk, was bought as a fisherman's cottage in 1918 by the Mossop family of Mossop Leathers, and is still in the Mossop family. There had been a building on that site since the 1690s; a \"poshuis\" or post house and a whaling station office is all that is known of its history. \n\nThis was the beginning of the town of Fish Hoek. Initially people built holiday cottages, but as there was a good train service to Cape Town a more permanent community soon arose. By 1940 it was big enough to be declared a municipality and was administered by the Town Council until 1996. Hester and Isaac de Villiers, with other members of their family, are buried in the small graveyard next to the NG Kerk (Dutch Reformed Church) in Kommetjie Road. The farmhouse on the site of the present Homestead Naval Mess near the railway crossing became a hotel. The original building subsequently burned down in 1947.\n\nAfter being part of the transitional South Peninsula Municipality from 1996 to 2000, Fish Hoek now falls under the City of Cape Town. Today Fish Hoek is regarded as a suburb of greater Cape Town and lies on the railway line from the central business district of that city to Simon's Town in the south. Until recently, Fish Hoek was a \"dry\" area - one of the conditions placed by the owner who gave the land for development was that there be no alcohol sold there. Nowadays, alcohol is available in restaurants and bars, but only recently have there been bottle stores allowed.\n\nFish Hoek is situated in a bay at the end of a broad, low valley, between two and three kilometres wide, which runs from east to west across the Cape Peninsula from Fish Hoek on the False Bay side to Noordhoek and Kommetjie on the Atlantic side. When sea levels were higher than they are today, the valley used to be a sea passage that separated the Cape Peninsula into northern and southern islands. The valley is generally sandy and the bedrock is Cape granite. In places this is deeply weathered and in the past the rotted granite was mined for pockets of the mineral kaolinite, which is used to make ceramic goods such as hand basins and bath tubs. The valley is famous for 12,000-year-old paleolithic skeletons discovered in a cave (now called Peers' Cave) by Bertie Peers and his father in 1927. Bertie Peers was a lover and explorer of the great outdoors, a fine amateur scientist and a dedicated naturalist but his enthusiasm eventually cost him his life, when he was fatally struck by a puff adder.\n\nIt is approximately 40 kilometres by road from Fish Hoek to the centre of Cape Town. Fish Hoek is connected to the city by two road routes: Main Road along the False Bay coast, and Ou Kaapse Weg which passes over the Steenberg mountains. Fish Hoek has a railway station which is served by Metrorail's Southern Line service, with journey times of about an hour to central Cape Town and 15 minutes to Simon's Town.\n\nFish Hoek has a mild mediterranean climate and is spared over hot summer days by the south-easterly wind known locally as \"the Cape Doctor\". The mountains nearby are famous for large numbers of complex caves in sandstones of the Table Mountain Group. Caves are usually found in limestones and it is not common to find complex cave systems in pure sandstone.\n\nFish Hoek has become well known as a tourist resort and as a place where elderly people retire. \n\nThe beach is about long and quite flat, and the bay is protected from the currents and stronger surf in the rest of False Bay. Swimming is allowed along the entire beach with lifesavers on duty during the summer peak season, and body surfing, boogie boarding, wind surfing and kayaking are popular. The water is far warmer than the Atlantic Seaboard, averaging between just under annually (similar to Northern Mediterranean Waters like Monte Carlo or Nice, and peaking at in summer months. Restaurants and children's play areas are situated at the southern end, and a path known as Jager Walk (also spelled Jaeger or Jagger, and known locally as the Cat Walk) runs past rock pools on the southern side of the bay.\nShark spotters are often on duty, especially during the summer tourist season. Despite this, there have been two fatal attacks on swimmers in the bay in recent years, one in November 2004 and one in January 2010. On September 28, 2011, a 44-year-old British man Michael Cohen lost part of his leg after being mauled by a Great White shark, despite the beach being closed and shark flag flying. The northern parts of the beach are less developed, and are used by trek fishermen to launch their boats and clean nets. Seasonal visits from Southern Right Whales occur from June to November each year.\n\nSchools include Bay Primary, Fish Hoek Primary, Fish Hoek High School and Paul Greyling Primary.\n\nFish Hoek and its surrounding suburbs are served by the local \"False Bay Echo\" newspaper, originally the \"Fish Hoek Echo\", and the \"Peoples Post\".\n\n\nThe Fish Hoek municipal council adopted a coat of arms, designed by R. McNee Tait, in April 1941.\n\nThe shield was gold, displaying a silver rampant lion behind a red horizontal stripe. The crest was an arm in armour, holding a sword, emerging from a coronet. The shield was supposed to represent Andries Bruins, while the crest was taken from the arms borne by some members of the De Villiers family. Whether Andries Bruins or Jacob de Villiers ever used these designs is unclear.\n"}
{"id": "2311949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2311949", "title": "Aiyura Airport", "text": "Aiyura Airport\n\nAiyura Airport is an airstrip in Aiyura, in the Eastern Highlands Province of Papua New Guinea. It is the main air base for Summer Institute of Linguistics (SIL). The pilots and mechanics who work out of Aiyura Airport live in the nearby SIL town of Ukarumpa.\n"}
{"id": "2311960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2311960", "title": "The World Tonight", "text": "The World Tonight\n\nThe World Tonight is a British current affairs radio programme broadcast on BBC Radio 4, every weekday evening, which started out as an extension of the 10 pm news. It features news, analysis and comment on domestic and world issues. Ritula Shah is currently the main presenter, usually presenting the first three days of the week. The programme utilises other BBC broadcasters including David Eades, Carolyn Quinn, James Coomarasamy, Roger Hearing, Samira Ahmed and Felicity Evans to regularly present on Thursdays, Fridays and in Shah's absence. Between 1989 and 2012, the main presenter was Robin Lustig.\n\n\"The World Tonight\" was first broadcast on 6 April 1970, starting on the same day as the PM Programme. It was introduced following the changes at Broadcasting House which ushered in Radio 1, to create \"the serious current affairs programme of the day\" on the new Radio 4, as one survivor recalls.\n\nBroadcast live at 10 pm, initially for only thirty minutes, its tone was set by presenter Douglas Stuart, a former Washington and Bonn correspondent for the BBC. The first edition contained interviews on Northern Ireland and relations between West Germany and the United States. Later that week, ideas for better government in Scotland and peace in the Middle East were featured.\n\nIts focus on international news was set early on by events in Washington surrounding Watergate. The US time zone (five hours behind the UK) meant that the programme could bring up to the minute developments at 10 pm. Its first reporters came from within the ranks of the programme's own producers, which meant that packages or features were cut from a different cloth than standard news reports. Today's \"World Tonight\" reporters may not have come from the same stable but the emphasis on perceptive, contextual reporting has remained.\n\nPresenters with strong journalistic credentials, including John Tusa, Anthony Howard, Richard Kershaw, Isabel Hilton and Robin Lustig, have secured and maintained the programme's reputation for authoritative coverage.\n\nOther notable former staffers include Dominic Lawson, former editor of \"The Sunday Telegraph\", Jim Gray, former editor of \"Channel 4 News\", Jonathan Freedland of \"The Guardian\", and Henry Kelly.\n\nVeterans recall the traditionally 'relaxed' figure of the editor. The \"laissez faire\" approach of the boss over the years created a culture in which Output Editors, responsible for daily editions, were able to take risks, some of which have led to notable scoops, such as the predicted arrest on war crimes charges of General Augusto Pinochet in 1998.\n\nA staple of the Radio 4 schedule for over four decades, 2013 figures showed \"The World Tonight\" has retained 1.75 million listeners, representing 17.8% of the national radio audience at 10 pm.\n\n\nRitula Shah, the main presenter, usually presents Monday–Wednesday. Since 2012 the programme has used a roster of broadcasters to host at other times.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2311964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2311964", "title": "Perentie", "text": "Perentie\n\nThe perentie (\"Varanus giganteus\") is the largest monitor lizard or goanna native to Australia, and the fourth-largest living lizard on earth, after the Komodo dragon, Asian water monitor, and crocodile monitor. Found west of the Great Dividing Range in the arid areas of Australia, it is rarely seen because of its shyness and the remoteness of much of its range from human habitation. The species is considered to be a least-concern species according to the International Union for Conservation of Nature.\n\nIts status in many Aboriginal cultures is evident in the totemic relationships, and part of the Ngiṉṯaka dreaming, as well as bush tucker. It was a favoured food item among desert Aboriginal tribes, and the fat was used for medicinal and ceremonial purposes.\n\nBritish zoologist John Edward Gray described the perentie in 1845 as \"Hydrosaurus giganteus\", calling it the \"gigantic water lizard\". George Albert Boulenger moved it to the genus \"Varanus\".\n\nWithin the monitor genus \"Varanus\", it lies within the subgenus \"Varanus\". Its closest relatives belong to a lineage that gave rise to the sand goanna and the Argus monitor.\n\nThe lizard can grow up to long, although the typical length is around and weigh up to —maximum weight can be over . Its rival for the title of the third-largest lizard is the crocodile monitor, which although often longer, exceeding 2.4 m in length, is lighter and less bulky than the perentie. However, perenties are relatively lean lizards and are less bulky than either the Komodo dragon or the Asian water monitor.\n\nIn late 2005, University of Melbourne researchers discovered that all monitors may be somewhat venomous. Previously, bites inflicted by monitors were thought to be prone to infection because of bacteria in their mouths, but the researchers showed that the immediate effects are caused by mild envenomation. Bites on the hand by Komodo dragons, (\"V. komodensis)\", perenties (\"V. giganteus\"), lace monitors (\"V. varius\"), and spotted tree monitors (\"V. scalaris\") have been observed to cause swelling within minutes, localised disruption of blood clotting, and shooting pain up to the elbow, which can often last for several hours.\n\nUniversity of Washington biologist Kenneth V. Kardong and toxicologists Scott A. Weinstein and Tamara L. Smith have argued that the suggestion of venom glands \"... has had the effect of underestimating the variety of complex roles played by oral secretions in the biology of reptiles, produced a very narrow view of oral secretions and resulted in misinterpretation of reptilian evolution\". According to the scientists \"... reptilian oral secretions contribute to many biological roles other than to quickly dispatch prey\". They concluded, \"Calling all in this clade venomous implies an overall potential danger that does not exist, misleads in the assessment of medical risks, and confuses the biological assessment of squamate biochemical systems\".\n\nPerenties are found in the arid desert areas of Western Australia, South Australia, the Northern Territory, and Queensland. Their habitats consist of rocky outcroppings and gorges, with hard-packed soil and loose stones.\n\nUncommon, perenties generally avoid human contact and often retreat before they are seen. Being able diggers, they can excavate a burrow for shelter in only minutes. Their long claws enable them to easily climb trees. They often stand on their back legs and tails to gain a better view of the surrounding terrain. This behaviour, known as \"tripoding\", is quite common in monitor species. Perenties are fast sprinters, and can run using either all four legs or just their hind legs.\n\nTypical of most goannas, the perentie either freezes (lying flat on the ground, and remaining very still until the danger has passed) or runs if detected. If cornered, this powerful carnivore stands its ground and uses its arsenal of claws, teeth, and whip-like tail to defend itself. It can inflate its throat and hiss as a defensive or aggressive display, and can strike at opponents with its muscular tail. It may also lunge forward with an open mouth, either as a bluff or as an attack. The bite of a perentie can do much damage, not only from the teeth, but also because of the oral secretions..\n\nPerenties are highly active carnivores that feed on mostly reptiles, small mammals, and less commonly birds such as diamond doves. They hunt live prey, but also scavenge carrion. Reptilian prey includes mostly lizards and more seldom snakes, but this species also displays a notable example of intraguild predation, as it eats an unusually large number of other monitor lizard species such as ridge-tailed monitors, black-headed monitors, Gould's monitors, and even Argus monitors. Perenties also eat smaller members of their own species; such is the case of a 2-m perentie killing and eating a 1.5-m perentie. Other lizard prey include eastern bearded dragons and long-nosed water dragons. Coastal and island individuals often eat a large number of sea turtle eggs and hatchlings, and hide under vehicles to ambush scavenging gulls. Mammalian prey includes bats, young kangaroos, and rodents. They have also been occasionally seen foraging for food in shallow water. Although adults feed predominantly on vertebrate prey, young perenties eat mostly arthropods, especially grasshoppers.\n\nPrey is typically swallowed whole, but if the food item is too large, chunks are ripped off for ease of consumption.\n\nThe perentie can lay its eggs in termite mounds or in the soil.\n\n"}
{"id": "2311969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2311969", "title": "Pohnpei State", "text": "Pohnpei State\n\nPohnpei State is one of the four states of the Federated States of Micronesia (FSM). The other states are, from the east to west, Kosrae State, Chuuk State, and Yap State. The state's principal island is Pohnpei.\n\nPohnpei, when it was a district of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, initially contained Kosrae, which was a municipality of the district.\n\nThe state of Pohnpei is located in the Pacific Ocean. It is located near the eastern end of the Caroline Islands and is about midway between Honolulu and Manila. The land area of Pohnpei state is given as .\n\nPohnpei's outer islands are low islands, and include Pingelap, Mokil, Ant, Pakin, Ngatik, Nukuoro, Oroluk, and Kapingamarangi; also included is the largely submerged Minto Reef.\n\nWith the exception of coastal plains, talus slopes and alluvial fans, most of Pohnpei Island, a high island, is ruggedly mountainous, lush and verdant, with the highest peak at . Its rainforest is dense and rich; extensive mangrove swamps line much of the low shore. The island is roughly circular in outline, its circumference is surrounded by a coral reef. \n\n\nPohnpei State Department of Education operates public schools.\n\nPublic high schools:\n\nPrivate schools:\n"}
{"id": "2311971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2311971", "title": "Kim Kyu-sik", "text": "Kim Kyu-sik\n\nKim Kyu-Sik, also spelled Kimm Giusic and Kimm Kiusic (Korean:김규식, Hanja:金奎植, January 29, 1881 – December 10, 1950), was a Korean politician and academic during the Korean independence movement and a leader of the Provisional Government of the Republic of Korea. Kim served in various roles in the provisional government, including as foreign minister, ambassador, education minister and finally as the vice president from 1940 until the provisional government's dissolution on March 3, 1947. Kim's nicknames included Yoosa(우사), Kummun(금문), KimSung(김성), and JukJeok(죽적).\n\nKim was born in Dongnae, now part of modern-day Busan. Orphaned at an early age, Kim studied with American missionary H.G. Underwood starting from the age of 6, taking the Christian name \"Johann.\" He later traveled to the United States, receiving a bachelor's degree from Roanoke College in 1903 and a master's degree in English literature from Princeton University the following year.\n\nIn 1905 Kim returned to Korea, teaching widely. Following the 1910 Japanese annexation of Korea Kim fled to China in 1913.\n\nIn 1919 Kim traveled to Paris for the Paris Peace Conference to lobby for Korean independence from Japan. He was sent by Lyuh Woon-Hyung and Chang Duk-soo, who had organized Sinhan Cheongnyeondang in Shanghai in the summer of 1919. His efforts in Paris proved to be futile.\n\nThe Korean National Revolutionary Party was formed in Shanghai in 1935 through a grouping of nationalist Korean parties.\nOrganizers were Kim Kyu-sik, Kim Won-bong and Cho Soang.\n\nKim was a leading member of the Provisional Government of the Republic of Korea based in Shanghai, becoming the Vice-President. He was fluent in English and taught English to the Provisional Government's members.\n\nAfter the post World War II liberation of Korea in 1945, he returned to his homeland to join in the formation of a newly independent state, which was then under the rule of the United States Army Military Government in Korea in the south and the Soviet Civil Authority in the north. Kim was favored by the American occupation leader John R. Hodge, who saw him and Lyuh Woon-Hyung as moderate leaders on the right and left, respectively. In September 1947, the United States and Lee Seung Man (이승만; 李承晩 – also known as Syngman Rhee) \"et al.\" pushed to move the Korean question to the newly created United Nations, which voted to allow for elections in the south despite the objections of southern nationalists such as Kim and Kim Gu as well as from the north's Interim People's Committee, who were opposed because of the non-participation of the North.\n\nAfter failed efforts to broker reunification in that year, he retired from politics. After the outbreak of the Korean War in 1950, he was kidnapped and taken to the North; he reportedly died near Manpo in the far north on December 10.\n\nIn May 1988 he was posthumously awarded the Republic of Korea Medal of Order of Merit for National Foundation (건국훈장 대한민국장; 建國勳章 大韓民國章), the most prestigious civil decoration in South Korea. He was posthumously awarded North Korea's National Reunification Prize in 1998.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2311972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2311972", "title": "Chuuk State", "text": "Chuuk State\n\nChuuk State (also known as Truk) is one of the four states of the Federated States of Micronesia (FSM). The other states are Kosrae State, Pohnpei State, and Yap State. It consists of several island groups:\nChuuk is the most populous state of the FSM with 50,000 inhabitants on . Chuuk Lagoon is where most people live. Weno Island in the Lagoon functions as state capital and is FSM's biggest city. It is scheduled to possibly vote for independence in 2022.\n\nChuuk was one of six districts of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (TTPI) which were administered by the United States under charter from the United Nations from the end of the Second World War to the mid-1980s. The termination of U.S. administration of the Chuuk, Yap, Kosrae, Pohnpei, and Mariana Islands districts of the TTPI occurred on November 3, 1986. The Federated States of Micronesia, including Chuuk, Yap, Kosrae, and Pohnpei, was established in 1979 and signed a Compact of Free Association with the U.S. (effective November 3, 1986).\n\nOn July 2, 2002, heavy rains from Tropical Storm Chataan caused more than thirty landslides that killed forty-seven people and injured dozens of others, in the state's deadliest weather disaster. The landslides occurred throughout the day, some within just minutes of each other.\n\nAs of recent times, Chuuk has been pushing harder for independence. An independence referendum was originally scheduled to coincide with federal elections on March 3, 2015, but was pushed back to March 5, 2019. The independence referendum was further pushed back to March 2022, with a date to be announced, while the constitutional legality of the proposed secession is determined.\n\nTo the west is Yap State. To the east are Pohnpei State and Kosrae State is further east.\n\nThe main population center of Chuuk State is the Chuuk Lagoon, a large archipelago with mountainous islands surrounded by a string of islets on a barrier reef. The two major geographical and dialectic divisions of the Chuuk Lagoon are Faichuuk, the western islands, and Namoneas, the eastern islands.\n\nChuuk State also includes several more sparsely populated \"outer island\" groups, including the Mortlock Islands to the southeast, the Hall Islands (Pafeng) to the north, Namonuito Atoll to the northwest, and the Pattiw Region to west. The Pattiw Region is of particular interest in that it has some of the most traditional islands in the Pacific and is culturally related to outer islands of Yap. This group includes the islands of Pollap, Tamatam, Poluwat, and Houk. Today you can still find traditional master navigators—Poluwat and Pollap are considered to have some of the best navigators and ocean-going outrigger canoes in the Pacific. In the islands of the Pattiw Region, and some of the Islands of Yap, you will still find today the last two remaining schools of navigation, Weriyeng and Faaluush. Visiting the Pattiw Region in the west, however, is difficult due to the lack of reliable transportation. Houk probably has the most accessible airstrip in the Pattiw Region, with planes landing every one or two weeks.\n\nThe state shares its longitude with Sydney, Australia, namely the eastern portion of the city including the CBD.\n\nChuuk is the most populous of the FSM's states. At the census held on 1 April 2000, it had 53,595 inhabitants, compared with 34,486 for Pohnpei, 11,241 for Yap and 7,686 for Kosrae; at the census held on 4 April 2010, it had 48,654 inhabitants, compared with 36,196 for Pohnpei, 11,377 for Yap and 6,616 for Kosrae. There are about 600 people living in Uman. Uman was the 1st place champion in Chuuk's National Challenges 1990-2016.\n\nThe New York Province of the Society of Jesus (the Jesuits) maintains a mission school on the island of Weno in Chuuk. Xavier High School is housed at the former Japanese communications center. It is a coeducational institution, drawing students from all the island groups of the Federated States of Micronesia, as well as Palau and the Marshall Islands. Teachers are both Jesuit and lay and come from Micronesia, the U.S., Indonesia, Japan, and Australia.\n\nAlthough Chuuk is an overwhelmingly Christian society, traditional beliefs in spirit possession by the dead still exist. Allegedly, these spirits overwhelmingly possess women, and spirit possession is usually brought on by family conflicts. The spirits, speaking through the women, typically admonish family members to treat each other better.\n\nThere are some references on the Chuukese language, treating guests, and on beliefs in the sci-fi book \"Reefsong\" from Carol Severance.\n\nOf the 40 municipalities of the state, 16 fall within the Chuuk Lagoon and 24 in the Outer Islands. In the table below, each is followed by its population at the Census held on 1 April 2000.\n\nFaichuk (Shichiyo) Islands:\n\nNomwisofo Islands:\n\nNorthern Nomoneas (Shiki) Islands:\n\nSouthern Nomoneas (Shiki) Islands:\n\nLower Mortlock Islands (Nomoi Islands):\n\nUpper Mortlock Islands (Eastern Islands):\n\nHall Islands (north):\n\nNamonuito Atoll (Magur Islands) (northwest):\n\nPattiw Islands (Western Islands):\n\nChuuk State Department of Education operates public schools.\n\nPublic high schools:\n\nPrivate secondary schools:\n\nPrivate primary schools:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2311974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2311974", "title": "Listen to My Heart (BoA album)", "text": "Listen to My Heart (BoA album)\n\nListen to My Heart is the debut Japanese album by BoA. Released in 2002, it debuted at number one on the Oricon Charts. It also reached #12 on yearly charts in Japan of 2002. It stayed on the Oricon Charts for 91 weeks. This album is the first BoA contributed to through writing and composing.\n"}
{"id": "2311975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2311975", "title": "Yap State", "text": "Yap State\n\nYap State is one of the four states of the Federated States of Micronesia (FSM). The other states are Kosrae State, Pohnpei State, and Chuuk State.\n\nColonia is the capital of Yap State, which administers both the Yap Main Islands and the island of Satawal, as well as fourteen atolls reaching to the east and south for some , namely (municipalities in bold) Eauripik, Elato, Fais, Faraulep, Gaferut, Ifalik, Lamotrek, Ngulu, Olimarao, Piagailoe (West Fayu), Pikelot, Sorol, Ulithi, and Woleai. The outer islands and atolls reach to the east and south from the Yap Main Islands for some 800 km (500 mi (see map). Historically, a tributary system existed between the Neighboring Islands and the Yap Main Islands. This probably related to the need for goods from the high islands, including food, as well as wood for construction of seagoing vessels.\n\nIn 2000 the population of Colonia and ten other municipalities totalled 11,241. The state has a total land area of .\n\nThe state was once the Yap District of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.\n\nYap State is the westernmost state of the FSM. To the east from near to far are Chuuk State, Pohnpei State, and Kosrae State.\n\nYap State has five official languages: English, Ulithian, Woleaian, Satawalese and Yapese.\n\nThe 2000 population was 7,391.\n\nYap State is divided into municipalities.\n\n\n\nThe current governor of Yap is Henry Falan.\n\nYap has a group of chiefs known as the Council of Pilung and the Council of Tamol, who regulate cultural issues.\n\nYap has a relatively small tourism industry, with the Yap Visitors Bureau reporting only 4,000 annual visitors since 2010. China's Exhibition & Travel Group (ETG) has announced plans to develop a 4,000-unit resort on the island.\n\nYap International Airport receives service from United Airlines.\n\nPublic schools:\n\nPrivate schools:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2311980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2311980", "title": "Dolores Gray", "text": "Dolores Gray\n\nDolores Gray (June 7, 1924 – June 26, 2002) was an American actress and singer. She was nominated for the Tony Award for Best Lead Actress in a Musical twice, winning once.\n\nShe was born as Sylvia Dolores Finkelstein (but known by Sylvia Dolores Vernon growing up) to Barbara Marguerite Gray (born Marguerite Gray) and Harry Vernon Finkelstein (stage name Harry Vernon) in Los Angeles, California, although obituaries listed Gray's birthplace as Chicago, as does her biography on the Internet Movie Database. Both her mother and father were vaudeville actors, which is how they met. Gray's parents divorced when she was a young child. Dolores had an older brother, Richard Gray (born Richard Vernon), who also had a career in Hollywood. While attending Polytechnic High School she was in the Girls' Glee Club. She was 'discovered' by Rudy Vallee, who gave her a guest spot on his nationwide radio show. Dolores Gray was briefly signed with MGM, appearing in \"Kismet\" (1955) and \"It's Always Fair Weather\" (1955). \n\nHer career commenced as a cabaret artist in restaurants and supper clubs in San Francisco, and in Reno, Nevada. In 1945 she appeared in her own radio program. While she was appearing in \"Annie Get Your Gun\" in London (1947 – 1950), she studied at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art in 1948. As a fundraiser to help rebuild the RADA theatre, she appeared as Nell Gwyn in \"In Good King Charles's Golden Days\" at Drury Lane Theatre (Oct 1948). She appeared at the London Palladium in 1958 while doing a concert tour of Europe and in cabaret at The Talk of the Town in February 1963. Among her many stage roles, she appeared in \"Two on the Aisle\" (1951), \"Carnival In Flanders\" (1953); \"Destry Rides Again\" (1959); \"Sherry!\" (1967); and \"42nd Street\" (1986). She also performed the lead role in \"Annie Get Your Gun\" in its first London production (1947). Gray won the Tony Award for Best Lead Actress in a Musical for her role in \"Carnival in Flanders\", even though this Broadway musical, with a script by Preston Sturges, ran for only six performances. She therefore holds a record that is unlikely to be broken: briefest run in a performance which still earned a Tony. She is the first person to have sung the English version of the French song “C'est si bon” in a movie, \"\" directed by John Nasht.\n\nPortraying a singing and dancing stage actress, she appeared with Gregory Peck and Lauren Bacall in the highly successful film \"Designing Woman\" (1957), as his former romantic interest. During her successful music career, she sang Marilyn Monroe's part on the Decca Records soundtrack album of \"There's No Business Like Show Business\" (1954).\n\nShe was best known for her theatre roles. She recalled once, “What a gift that would be to have more of a permanent record. A stage performance is just that, then it's lost. When I see movies on TV, I think, 'How great to have that.' But why look back? The decisions I made, I made. I can't change that.” In 1973 she took over from Angela Lansbury in the London production of \"Gypsy\" at the Piccadilly Theatre. In 1987 she starred in the London production of Stephen Sondheim's \"Follies\" at the Shaftesbury Theatre to great acclaim and appeared in the Royal Variety Performance of that year with a show-stopping performance of the song \n'I'm Still Here\" from the show. In 1978 she also appeared on BBC TV's long-running variety show \"The Good Old Days\" - chairman Leonard Sachs had also appeared in \"Follies\" as theatre owner Dimitri Wiseman, introducing Miss Gray, one of “The Wiseman Girls”. Theatre critic Michael Phillips wrote that Gray's voice sounded like “a freight-train slathered in honey.” In 1988 she appeared in the \"Doctor Who\" 25th anniversary story “Silver Nemesis,” playing an American tourist.\n\nApart from the many soundtrack albums she appeared on, Gray recorded one album of songs in 1957 for Capitol Records with the title \"Warm Brandy\" (T897).\n\nOn September 24, 1966, Dolores Gray married Andrew J. Crevolin, a California businessman and Thoroughbred racehorse owner who won the 1954 Kentucky Derby. Despite erroneous reports in the media that they divorced, they remained married until his death in 1992. The union was childless.\n\nGray died of a heart attack in Manhattan, aged 78. Upon her death, she was cremated and her ashes interred at Holy Cross Cemetery in Culver City, California.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2311983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2311983", "title": "National research and education network", "text": "National research and education network\n\nA national research and education network (NREN) is a specialised internet service provider dedicated to supporting the needs of the research and education communities within a country.\n\nIt is usually distinguished by support for a high-speed backbone network, often offering dedicated channels for individual research projects.\n\nIn recent years NRENs have developed many 'above the net' services. National Identity federations, many of which are represented in REFEDs, are one example of such services.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2311992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2311992", "title": "Web of Scarlet Spider", "text": "Web of Scarlet Spider\n\nWeb of Scarlet Spider is the name of a short-lived comic book series starring the Scarlet Spider. The series was published by Marvel Comics for four issues between November 1995 and February 1996. It was a direct continuation, in terms of creative teams and storylines, of the previous \"Web of Spider-Man\" series in the same way that the other three primary Spider-Man series (\"The Amazing Spider-Man\", \"Spectacular Spider-Man\", and \"\") were replaced by \"Amazing Scarlet Spider\", \"Spectacular Scarlet Spider\", and \"Scarlet Spider\" respectively during this period. While those series each reverted to their original titles after two issues (the quarterly \"Spider-Man Unlimited\" was similarly redone for one issue as \"Scarlet Spider Unlimited\"), \"Web\" remained a Scarlet Spider title for two additional issues before the series was cancelled entirely.\n\nThe first two months of \"Scarlet Spider\" titles saw a holographic Scarlet Spider imposter destroy the real Spider's reputation. As a result, Ben Reilly (the real Spider) decided to abandon the Scarlet Spider guise in favor of a new Spider-Man costume in \"Spectacular Scarlet Spider\" #2. While the new title \"The Sensational Spider-Man\" was created to replace \"Web\" as the fourth Spider-Man title, \"Web\" continued for two more issues, following Joe Wade in a three-part crossover that included \"New Warriors\" vol. 1 #67. Wade was an FBI agent who became possessed by nanotechs in Lady Octopus' lab explosion, giving him Scarlet Spider's appearance and powers.\n\nCreators who contributed to the title include writers Tom DeFalco, Todd DeZago, and Evan Skolnick and pencillers Paris Karounos and Tom Morgan.\n\nThe first two issues are collected in \"Spider-Man: The Complete Ben Reilly Epic Book 1\". Issues three and four, along with \"New Warrior\" #67, were collected in \"Spider-Man: The Complete Ben Reilly Epic Book 2\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2312004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312004", "title": "Susan Rae", "text": "Susan Rae\n\nSusan Scott Rae (born 2 June 1956) is a Scottish newsreader and continuity announcer on BBC Radio 4, BBC Radio 3 and BBC Radio 4 Extra.\n\nRae was born and raised in Dundee, Scotland, and read English at Edinburgh University. She left the university before her finals, and began work with D. C. Thomson newspapers in Dundee, before taking up work on BBC Radio Aberdeen. After three years there, she left to work in London in the early 1980s as a continuity announcer and newsreader on BBC Radio 4. The response to her voice on Radio 4 at this time was negative; some listeners believed the BBC's commitment to accurate pronunciation was in decline.\n\nLater in the 1980s she moved to daytime television, co-presenting \"Open Air\", and continued with voiceover work when the show ended. Rae began working on the BBC World Service around 2000, returning to BBC Radio 4 in 2003.\n\nShe has done voiceovers for many Discovery Channel shows (including some episodes of \"Forensic Detectives\" and \"The FBI Files\"), and for Bravo's series \"Street Crime UK\". In 2007, she presented \"Eastern Skies\" for Anglia Television.\n\nRae lives in London. She is a humanist celebrant.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312013", "title": "Jumping into the World", "text": "Jumping into the World\n\nJumping Into the World is the first special album (or 1.5 album) by South Korean Singer BoA, was released on March 8, 2001. It consisted of eight new tracks along English and Chinese versions of the songs \"Don't Start Now\", \"사라 (SARA)\", \"ID; Peace B\". In Korea, the album was titled \"Don't Start Now\".\n"}
{"id": "2312016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312016", "title": "Bryan Hitch", "text": "Bryan Hitch\n\nBryan Hitch (born 22 April 1970) is a British comics artist and writer. Hitch began his career in the United Kingdom for Marvel UK, working on titles such as \"Action Force\" and \"Death's Head\", before gaining prominence on American titles such as Wildstorm's \"Stormwatch\" and \"The Authority\", DC Comics' \"JLA\", and Marvel Comics' \"The Ultimates\".\n\nHitch's artwork and designs have appeared in direct-to-video animated films, television, and major feature films, such as the 2009 film \"Star Trek\", for which he has been praised by director J. J. Abrams.\n\nBryan Hitch began reading comics at an early age, likening them to his \"underage drug habit\" and the newsagent in northern England where he would buy his books from his \"dealer\". The newsagent was next door to a cinema, and as Hitch explains, he could go straight from enjoying Christopher Reeve \"Superman\" films and other genre films to the store to buy \"Superman\" comics drawn by artists such as Curt Swan and José Luis García-López.\n\nHitch entered the comics industry after submitting \"Teeth Like Flint\", an \"Action Force\" sample story he wrote and drew to Marvel UK, using a style that was fashionable at the time. Marvel UK gave him his first professional commission in May or June 1987, approximately a month and a half after his 17th birthday.\n\nHitch worked with Simon Furman on \"Transformers\" and \"Death's Head\". He did some work at Marvel Comics and DC Comics during the late 1980s and early 1990s, in particular his run on \"The Sensational She-Hulk\", and continued drawing for Marvel UK. After that imprint closed, he provided the art for an issue of \"Teen Titans\" and a couple of series at Valiant Comics before returning to Marvel where he would work with inker Paul Neary. It was in the late 1990s that he got a series of high-profile assignments, which would mainly include Neary on inks. At Wildstorm, he worked with Warren Ellis in rebooting \"Stormwatch\" and launching \"The Authority\". This led to a year on \"JLA\" with Mark Waid which included the \"JLA: Heaven's Ladder\" tabloid-format one-shot. Hitch and Neary then returned to Marvel and joined Mark Millar on \"The Ultimates\", \"The Ultimates 2\", and \"Fantastic Four\".\n\nHitch's career has been marked by lateness of books, perhaps due to his high detailing. Examples include his run \"JLA\", which was broken up by fill-in artists, a situation which he blamed on bad scheduling on DC Comics' part. There were long delays in between issues of \"The Ultimates\", which was due to the birth of his child, two house moves, and an office move. What would have been his final issue of \"Fantastic Four\" with Mark Millar was drawn instead by fill-in artist Stuart Immonen. Hitch stresses that Marvel was more supportive of him during his tardiness than DC.\n\nHitch provided cover artwork for the November 2006 issue of the British film magazine \"Empire\", for a cover feature on comic book movies. He was a character design artist for \"Ultimate Avengers\" and \"Ultimate Avengers 2\" animated films. He was a character design artist for the video game \"\". He was brought aboard the project due to his rendition of the Hulk in \"The Ultimates\". He was hired by the BBC as the concept artist for the 2005 relaunch of the \"Doctor Who\" television series, having particular input into the design of the TARDIS interior set. Hitch contributed designs to the starship piloted by Spock in the 2009 feature film \"Star Trek\", for which director J. J. Abrams has praised him.\n\nHitch's cover to \"Fantastic Four\" #554 (April 2008) is featured in the opening title sequence of the 2010 History Channel television series, \"Stan Lee's Superhumans\". That same year, Impact Books published \"Bryan Hitch's Ultimate Comics Studio\", examination of Hitch's approach and techniques toward his craft, as well as practical tips provided by Hitch on various aspects of the visual storytelling process, and how to develop a career in the comics field. \"Studio\", which features a foreword by Joss Whedon, contains both past artworks of Hitch's, as well as original artwork produced specifically for the book.\n\nIn 2012, Hitch was one of several artists to illustrate a variant cover for Robert Kirkman's \"The Walking Dead\" #100, which was released 11 July at the San Diego Comic-Con. The following year, Hitch illustrated the Image Comics series \"America's Got Powers\", with writer Jonathan Ross. He illustrated six issues of the ten-issue miniseries \"Age of Ultron\". Hitch and writer Brad Meltzer collaborated on a retelling of Batman's first appearance for \"Detective Comics\" vol. 2 #27 in January 2014. March 2014 saw the debut of Hitch's creator-owned series, \"Real Heroes\", written and illustrated by Hitch, who describes the concept as \"the cast of \"Avengers\" does \"Galaxy Quest\".\" In 2015, Hitch returned DC to write and draw \"Justice League of America\". He and artist Tony Daniel collaborated on a new \"Justice League\" series in 2016 as part of the DC Rebirth relaunch. Hitch finished his work on the series with issue #31 in October 2017. In 2018, he and writer Robert Venditti worked together on a \"Hawkman\" ongoing series. Beginning in 2019, he partnered with Warren Ellis for a twelve-issue limited series at DC: The Batman's Grave.\n\nFilm director Josh Trank has described himself as a \"huge fan\" of Hitch's artwork, and was inspired by Hitch's depiction of Reed Richards working in his garage in \"The Ultimates\" to approach focus on Richards as a young man in the 2015 \"Fantastic Four\" film.\n\nHitch does not consider himself an artist or comic artist, but a storyteller, explaining that illustration for him is simply a medium to tell a story.\n\nHitch is particular about his studio workspace, which does not contain a TV or sofa, stating that such things belong in the lounge for relaxation. In addition to a large drawing board and extra desk space for his computer equipment and lightbox, he keeps copious book shelves. Despite using a professional drawing board, he emphasises that any inexpensive board large enough to hold the paper is sufficient, as he himself mostly uses a piece of roughly cut chip-board leaning on the edge of his desk. He uses an Apple iMac desktop computer, flatbed scanner and Photoshop to modify his artwork digitally.\n\nHitch begins with multiple rough sketches employing different camera angles on paper with a blue pencil, which tends to be less visible in photocopies or scans, and then select the desired elements from the rough sketch with a graphite pencil. After picking the initial shapes, he will further emphasise his selections with a red marker pen and other coloured pens, continuing to attempt different variations. He will then, depending on how late in the day it is, either redraw the illustration on a sheet of layout paper or use his lightbox to tighten and clean up the drawing, emphasising that the lightbox should not be a mere exercise in tracing, but an opportunity to refine or change elements in the drawing to make it \"clean\" enough to be inked. When Hitch transfers the drawing to the final art board, he does initial layouts with a 2H pencil, which feels provides the necessary accuracy and detail, and uses an erasable blue pencil to mark panel frames and vanishing points, which he introduces after the rough stage. He chooses not to put too much time or polish into this stage, preferring to work quickly, lightly and instinctively. He uses a mechanical pencil with 0.9mm 2H lead at this stage for fine outlines and detail work, and a traditional pencil for more organic work, including softer lines, shading large areas and creating more fluid motion. The \"best tool of all\", according to him, is a traditional pencil cut with a craft knife, which he says can produce a variety of marks, and be used for detail, shading and general sketching. Hitch believes the best results combine both the mechanical and the knife-sharpened traditional pencil.\n\nRegarding inking, Hitch says, \"Inking isn't about tracing, or taking someone else's pencil drawing and making it your own. It's about being aware of and respectful about the original artist's intentions. It's also about making your own artistic judgements based on your interpretation of the piece. The skill is then honing your technique to be able to actually deliver a strong, inked piece that is just how the artist wanted it to be.\" For feathering, Hitch uses a size 0 sable brush, which he says provide a wider range of sensitive marks than synthetic brushes, despite being softer and harder to use. For more free-hand hatching, Hitch uses a Gillott 1960 dip pen, though he prefers to use more solid areas of black to large amounts of rendering.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312017", "title": "Procurator fiscal", "text": "Procurator fiscal\n\nA procurator fiscal (pl. \"procurators fiscal\"), sometimes called PF or fiscal, is a public prosecutor in Scotland who, has the ability to impose fiscal fines. They investigate all sudden and suspicious deaths in Scotland (similar to a coroner in other legal systems), conduct fatal accident inquiries (a form of inquest unique to the Scottish legal system) and handle criminal complaints against the police (administrative complaints are handled by the Police Investigations and Review Commissioner). They also receive reports from specialist reporting agencies such as Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs.\n\nFor the majority of crimes in Scotland, the procurators fiscal present cases for the prosecution in the sheriff, district and justice of the peace courts, and the case for the defence is presented either by the accused, a solicitor, or an advocate. The solicitor will work for a firm of solicitors, or in certain areas of Scotland could be a public defender working for the Public Defence Solicitors' Office.\n\nThe procurator fiscal has the discretion not to prosecute and pursue alternatives free from political interference, but is always subject to the directions of the Crown Office and the Lord Advocate.\n\nThe office most likely originates in the Roman-Dutch and French manorial or seignorial administrator (Dutch \"procurator-fiscaal\", French \"procureur fiscal\"), who, as the \"fiscal\" in the title suggests, was originally an officer of the sheriff (the local law enforcement officer and judge) with financial (fiscal) responsibilities: the procurator fiscal collected debts, fines, and taxes. \n\nA procurator-fiscal is a procurator or court representative connected with the fisc or Treasury, and hence with the collection of fines or dues. In official records, a king's procurator-fiscal is referred to in 1457. Such an officer appears to have emerged first in the ecclesiastical courts. In the \"St Andrew's Formulare\" of 1514, there is reference to an episcopal appointment of a man as \"procuratorem et advocatum nostrum fiscalem\" in all the bishop's causes, spiritual, civil and criminal, with wide powers; it contains a reference also to power which attaches \"ex officio procuratoris fiscalis\". He was assigned the duty of seeking out and prosecuting delinquents and disobedient people. In the mid-16th century, Cardinal Beaton had two procurators-fiscal. At this stage, it appears clear that a procurator-fiscal was competent in civil, criminal and spiritual causes. These duties of looking for and then prosecuting people may be the forerunner of policing in Scotland, which was established very considerably later (in 1800). This may explain why, in Scotland, the police are under a legal obligation to comply with the directions of the procurator fiscal in matters concerning the investigation of crime, since the fiscal was himself once an investigator and so did the same job. \n\nIn the course of the 18th century, the duties of a procurator fiscal to collect taxes and other dues were eclipsed by his duty as prosecutor in the sheriff court with the passage of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1701. In this capacity, procurators fiscal gave concurrence in private prosecutions and prosecuted on behalf of the Crown. The Sheriff Courts (Scotland) Act 1867 gave procurators fiscal full responsibility in law for prosecution of all criminal acts in Scotland.\n\nOriginally the fiscal was the sheriff's official and tenure of the office was at the pleasure of the sheriff. With the decline of private prosecution the fiscal came to be regarded more and more as under the control of the Lord Advocate. In 1776 the government started to pay procurators fiscal to take precognitions and in 1907 the right of appointing procurators fiscal was transferred to the Lord Advocate, and in 1927 procurators fiscal became full-time civil servants.\n\nProcurators fiscal make preliminary investigations into criminal cases, take written statements from witnesses (known as precognition) and are responsible for the investigation and prosecution of crime. This includes the power to direct the police in their investigation, but except for serious crimes such as murder the police normally complete their enquiries before involving the procurator fiscal.\n\nUnder solemn High Court procedure, once someone has been charged with an offence and remanded in custody, the Crown must bring the case to a preliminary hearing within 110 days.\n\nThe procurator fiscal has never been obliged to prosecute and can choose the level at which to prosecute (either through solemn or summary procedure). The defendant has no right to choose a jury trial, nor can a victim on their own decide to press charges, as the decision on whether to try by jury or summarily belongs to the prosecutor.. There is a very exceptional mechanism however, called a \"bill for criminal letters\", where a victim of a crime can petition the High Court of Justiciary for permission ('to pass the bill') to prosecute; akin to private prosecution in other jurisdictions. The last successful bill passed was in 1982 and previous to that, in 1909. Until 1987, the PF's discretion only extended to the degree to which they should prosecute, if at all; there were no alternatives to prosecution. The Criminal Justice (Scotland) Act 1987 gave procurators fiscal the power to offer fixed penalties instead of prosecution (a fiscal fine), at the time limited to a maximum of £25 and subsequently increased to £300.\n\nSince then these options have expanded to giving a warning, fiscal fines, compensation orders, work orders, road traffic fixed penalties or diversion from prosecution into social work, psychological counselling or psychiatric treatment.\n\nAll suspicious, sudden and accidental deaths must be reported to the procurator fiscal, and they have a responsibility to identify if any criminal action has occurred and, where appropriate, prosecute. Where a criminal offence is suspected to have occurred the procurator fiscal will instruct the local police to investigate.\n\nFatal accidents can be subject to a fatal accident inquiry, a form of judicial inquiry akin to an inquest but conducted without a jury. Fatal accident inquiries are conducted in a sheriff court. An inquiry must be held for all deaths in custody and fatal accidents, with other accidental deaths subject to inquiry at the discretion of the procurator fiscal.\n\nFor the most serious crimes, the case will not be directly prosecuted by the procurator fiscal. Instead, the case will be heard at the High Court of Justiciary and the prosecution will be made in the name of the Lord Advocate by an Advocate Depute.\n\nThere are eleven procurators fiscal in Scotland, each covering a geographical area or jurisdiction with a central office. Outside Strathclyde, these areas typically correspond with constabulary areas for the former territorial police forces in Scotland. They are (with areas in Strathclyde marked with an asterisk):\n\n\nA procurator fiscal is appointed to the Court of the Lord Lyon, which is a civil and criminal court dealing with Scottish heraldry and genealogy in Scotland. This Court is unique to Scots culture with heraldry playing an important role, particularly in relation to the clan system. Coats of arms that are registered are required to pay a fee to the Crown and must adhere to specific rules concerning their shape, colour and imagery. The procurator fiscal is appointed under the Lyon King of Arms Act 1867, formerly by the Lord Lyon, but since changes were made by the Convention Rights (Compliance) (Scotland) Act 2001, by the Scottish Ministers.\n\nIf any of the rules concerning a coat of arms – also known as \"an achievement\" – are broken, it is the procurator fiscal's job, as the independent official prosecutor of the court, to determine whether they should initiate criminal proceedings.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312019", "title": "Deep Sea Monster Reigo", "text": "Deep Sea Monster Reigo\n\nThe film, set in World War II, depicts the story of the real-life Japanese battleship, the \"Yamato\", which is confronted in the Pacific Ocean by giant monsters, including the most fearsome of them all, Reigo.\n\nThe film was released on home video in the United States in 2019 under the title \"Reigo: King of the Sea Monsters\".\n\nIn September 1942, Captain Yamagami (Susumu Kurobe) is ordered to rendezvous the Yamato with the Combined Fleet that is gathering at the Truk Islands (aka Chuuk Islands) in Micronesia, a key strategic point in the South Pacific. With beautiful clear blue skies above and surrounded by coral reefs below, this South Seas paradise became a strong base for the Combined Fleet and the front lines of the naval war; a place where many fierce battles were fought. Decades later, the sea bed surrounding the Truk Islands is still littered with the remains of more than 60 warships and airplanes.\n\nAmong Yamagami’s crew are the cantankerous Divisional Officer Noboru Osako (Yukijiro Hotaru) and the young Ensign Takeshi Kaido (Taiyo Sugiura). Unsure of what the future may bring, Kaido went off to war without declaring his intentions for his childhood sweetheart, Chie Kojima (Mai Nanami). He always carries her photo in his coat pocket, while Chie longs for his return to their seaside hometown.\n\nWhen the Yamato arrives at Truk, the married Osako decides to ease his worries over leaving behind a pregnant wife by sneaking an island woman named Momoka (Yumika Hayashi) aboard ship for some private recreation. But to Osako’s annoyance, Momoka brings along her elderly grandfather (Mickey Curtis) who insists on telling him a local tale about monsters that has been passed down for generations. The disbelieving naval officer is told that the surrounding waters are home to man-sized, carnivorous Bonefishes…and, as dangerous as the fish are, they are nothing more than an “opening act” for an even greater menace; the legendary Hell King of the Seas called Reigo.\n\nThe next night, a lookout spots a massive shape half-submerged in the distance. Believing it to be an enemy submarine, the Yamato fires on it and scores a direct hit. Osako is shocked when the object emits a strange cry as it sinks beneath the waves. He reports the incident and the story of Reigo to his commander and shipmates. Unbeknownst to the crew, they have killed the offspring of Reigo.\n\nNot long after that first encounter, a school of luminous Bonefish launch themselves from the water like flying fish and attack a group of soldiers standing watch on the Yamato’s deck. Kaido hears their screams and rushes to the rescue, but finds the men already torn to pieces.\n\nJust as the old man predicted, the Bonefish herald the arrival of Reigo, a beast 80 meters-long and resembling a cross between Godzilla and a shark. Seething with rage at the murder of its cub, the monster attacks the Combined Fleet with incredible ferocity and awesome destructive power. The naval forces are caught off guard, and Reigo is able to destroy escort ships and damage the Yamato before returning to the ocean depths.\n\nThe crew quickly regroups and plans a counterattack, but when Reigo returns it manages to stay one step ahead of the Japanese forces. Almost as if it is aware that the Yamato’s main guns are long range weapons which are ineffective up close, the monster attacks at close range or blasts the ships from underwater with blue bursts of electricity.\n\nThoughts of family and lovers back home… fear at being confronted by an unknown enemy…conflict and confrontation explode among the officers and crew over the best battle strategy to use against the threat of Reigo.\n\nOver Osako’s loud objections, Kaido suggests a last-ditch plan of attack that will either stop Reigo or sink the Yamato. Now the stage is set for a final battle to unfold between the world’s largest battleship and the mysterious dragon-like monster that glides through the seas at will.\n\n\nIn 2009 director Hayashiya made a follow up entitled . The film features a more traditional Godzilla like kaiju called Raiga. The creature rises from the sea to do battle with another of his kind.\n"}
{"id": "2312020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312020", "title": "Kazuo Mizutani", "text": "Kazuo Mizutani\n\nMizutani was in his office, listening to Col. Masataka Ida's explanation of a plot to prevent Japan's surrender, when Gen. Mori was killed by the lead conspirator, Maj. Kenji Hatanaka. He then went with Ida to the headquarters of the Eastern District Army to report the murder.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312024", "title": "El Lahun", "text": "El Lahun\n\nEl Lahun ( \"El Lāhūn,\" alt. Illahun, Lahun, or Kahun (the latter being a neologism coined by archaeologist William Matthew Flinders Petrie) is a village in Faiyum, Egypt. El Lahun is associated with the Pyramid of Senusret II (), which is located near the modern town, and is often called the \"Pyramid of Lahun\". The ancient name of the site was \"rꜣ-ḥn.t\", literally, \"Mouth (or Opening) of the Canal\").\n\nLike the other Twelfth Dynasty pyramids in the Faiyum, the Pyramid of Lahun is made of mud brick, but here the core of the pyramid consists of a network of stone walls that were infilled by mud brick. This approach was probably intended to ensure the stability of the brick structure. Unusually, despite a Pyramid Temple on the east side, the entrance to the pyramid is on the south. The archaeologist Flinders Petrie nevertheless spent considerable time searching for it on the east side. He discovered the entrance only when workmen clearing the nearby tombs of the nobles discovered a small tunnel at the bottom of a 40-foot shaft, which led to the royal burial chamber. Evidently the original workmen on the tomb had used their legitimate activity as a cover for digging this tunnel, which enabled them to rob the pyramid. Once he was in the burial chamber, Petrie was able to work backwards to the entrance.\n\nThe pyramid stands on an artificial terrace cut from sloping ground. On the north side eight rectangular blocks of stone were left to serve as mastabas, probably for the burial of personages associated with the royal court. In front of each mastaba is a narrow shaft leading down to the burial chamber underneath. Also on the north side is the Queen's Pyramid or subsidiary pyramid.\n\nThe most remarkable discovery was that of the village of the workers who both constructed the pyramid and then served the funerary cult of the king. The village, conventionally known as Kahun, is about 800 meters from the pyramid and lies in the desert a short distance from the edge of cultivation. When found, many of the buildings were extant up to roof height, and Petrie confirmed that the true arch was known and used by the workmen in the village. However, all the buildings found were demolished in the process of excavation, which proceeded in long strips down the length of the village. When the first strip had been cleared, mapped and drawn, the next strip was excavated and the spoil dumped in the previous strip. As a result, there is very little to be seen on the site today.\n\nThe village was excavated by Petrie in 1888-90 and again in 1914. The excavation was remarkable for the number, range, and quality of objects of everyday life (including tools) that were found in the houses. According to Dr Rosalie David's \"Pyramid Builders of Ancient Egypt,\" \"the quantity, range and type of articles of everyday use which were left behind in the houses may indeed suggest that the departure [of the workmen] was sudden and unpremeditated\" (p. 199).\n\nAmong the curiosities found there were wooden boxes buried beneath the floors of many of the houses. When opened they were found to contain the skeletons of infants, sometimes two or three in a box, and aged only a few months at death. Petrie reburied these human remains in the desert.\nAlso found in the town were the \"Kahun papyri\", comprising about 1000 fragments, covering legal and medical matters. Re-excavation of the area in 2009 by Egyptian archaeologists revealed a cache of pharaonic-era mummies in brightly painted wooden coffins in the sand-covered desert rock surrounding the pyramid.\n\nThe site was occupied into the late Thirteenth Dynasty, and then again in the New Kingdom, when there were large land reclamation schemes in the area.\n\nThe town was laid out in a regular plan, with mud-brick town walls on 3 sides. No evidence was found of a fourth wall, which may have collapsed and been washed away during the annual inundation. The town was rectangular in shape and was divided internally by a mudbrick wall as large and strong as the exterior walls. This wall divided about one third of the area of the town and in this smaller area the houses consisted of rows of back-to-back, side-by-side single room houses. The larger area, which was higher up the slope and thus benefited from whatever breeze was blowing, contained a much smaller number of large, multi-room villas. \nThe size of the houses ranged from 2,520 square meters for the elite houses to 120 square meters for small houses. Petrie compared the village to a Welsh mining village, where the workers lived in terraces in the valley while the mine owner and overseers lived in larger houses up the hill.\n\nA major feature of the town was the so-called ‘acropolis’ building. This was an important building, as indicated by the presence of column bases. Petrie suggested that this may have been the King’s residence whilst he was visiting construction work. The building seems to have been out of use and derelict before the end of occupation.\n\nOther records show that there were a large number of Semitic slaves in Egypt during the Twelfth Dynasty. It is interesting that some of the villas were constructed of layers of mudbrick separated by layers of reed matting, a technique used in Mesopotamia. Furthermore, burial beneath the living quarters of a house was a custom noted at Ur by Woolley. It is possible that the workers who were so carefully guarded by the village wall and separated from the overseers by an equally strong wall were Semitic (Asiatic) slaves not trusted by their overseers.\n\nIt was announced by the Supreme Council of Antiquities on 26 April 2009 that an anthology of pharaonic-era mummies in vividly painted wooden coffins were uncovered near the Lahun pyramid in Egypt. The sarcophagi were decorated with bright hues of green, red and white bearing images of their occupants. Archaeologists unearthed dozens of mummies, thirty of which were very well preserved with prayers purposed to help the deceased in the afterlife inscribed upon them. The site, once enveloped in slabs of white limestone, revealed that it could possibly be thousands of years older than previously thought.\n\nExperts think that a new understanding of Egyptian funerary architecture and customs of the Middle Pharaonic Kingdom all the way to the Roman era could be learned from the exploration of the dozens of tombs encompassing the site near the Lahun, Egypt’s southernmost pyramid. \"The tombs were cut on the rock itself, and they vary in architectural designs,\" said archaeologist Abdul Rahman Al-Ayedi, head of excavations at the site. Some of the tombs were erected on top of gravesites from earlier eras. Ayedi told reporters, \"The prevailing idea was that this site has been established by Senusret II, the fourth king of the 12th dynasty. But in light of our discovery, I think we are going to change this theory, and soon we will announce another discovery.\" He said that teams had made a discovery of an artifact that was dated earlier than the 12th dynasty, but did not include any specifics on the item and promised an official statement would be made within days.\nEgypt's Supreme Council of Antiquities announced May 23, 2010 that 57 ancient Egyptian tombs were discovered in an area close to Lahun. Most of the graves contained an ornamental painted wooden sarcophagus with a mummy inside. Some of the tombs date to the Egyptian First and Second Dynasties, as far back as 2750 BC. Several of the sites were decorated with hieroglyphics that the ancients believed would help the deceased travel through the afterlife.\nTwelve of the tombs were found to belong to the 18th dynasty which ruled Egypt during the second millennium BC. Egypt's archaeology chief, Zahi Hawass, said the mummies that date to the 18th dynasty are covered in linen decorated with religious texts from the Book of the Dead and scenes of ancient Egyptian deities. The discovery might help experts have a better understanding of the ancient Egyptian religions. Some of the tombs are decorated with religious texts that ancient Egyptians believed would help the deceased cross over to the underworld, said Abdel Rahman El-Aydi, chief archaeologist of project.\n\nEl-Aydi said one of the oldest tombs is almost completely intact, with all of its funerary equipment and a wooden sarcophagus containing a mummy wrapped in linen.\n\nIn 31 of the tombs, dating back to around 2030–1840 B.C., during the Middle Kingdom Era, archaeologists found scenes of different ancient Egyptian deities such as Horus, Amun, Hathor, & Khnum decorated on the tombs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312033", "title": "Oberhöfen", "text": "Oberhöfen\n\nOberhöfen is a small part of a town called Warthausen, in western Baden-Württemberg, Germany. Every year there is a popular party called Dorfplatz Feschd. \n"}
{"id": "2312036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312036", "title": "1948 South Korean Constitutional Assembly election", "text": "1948 South Korean Constitutional Assembly election\n\nConstitutional Assembly elections were held in South Korea on 10 May 1948. It was held under the American military occupation, with supervision from the United Nations. It resulted in a victory for the National Association for the Rapid Realisation of Korean Independence, which won 55 of the 200 seats, although 85 were held by independents. Voter turnout was 95.5%.\n\nThe elections were an important milestone in Korean political history. The Korean people had not previously experienced written constitutional rule; the very foundation of South Korean politics were still under construction and were unstable. The Korean peninsula had not yet established a fully functioning democratic republic, this was the first step in that direction. The elections would lead to a constitution, roughly based off the constitution of the United States of America; and bring with it the modern democratic state like that of the countries of the United Nations. \n\nThe elections did not come without controversy. In 1948, the subject of an election of any kind in South Korea was an issue worldwide. On 8 and 9 March 1948, UN delegates from Australia, Canada, India, and Syria expressed their doubts and some complete rejection of the elections on 10 May 1948 for South Korea. The U.N. delegates were concerned of Korea's political maturity at the time, feeling that the elections might not validly express the popular will after only being an independent country for four years. There were even Korean politicians, such as Kim Koo and Kim Kyu-sik, who denounced the election as it would dash the hopes of reunification with North Korea. However, with the voting out come from the South Korean Interim Legislature a 40 to 0 in favor of the election on 10 March, there was little reason to postpone or do away with the election at that time.\n\nControversy within the peninsula itself against the elections were just as negative. The elections were originally intended to be held throughout the Korean peninsula, but Soviet Union forces and Kim Il-sung refused the UN supervisors entry into North Korea for the elections. They were therefore held only in the US-administered territory, making the elections a purely South Korean event. Because of the segregation for the elections, Kim Koo and Kim Kyu-sik, denounced the elections as they would dash the hopes of reunification with North Korea. However the elections went ahead regardless of the doubts placed upon it. The voters elected members of parliament, who then voted on the constitution and elected the president. At the proceedings, they left one hundred seats open in the South Korean Parliament for North Koreans to vote on when they were able.\n\nThe election system corresponded to the same, limited system that was established under the Japanese. In larger towns, only land owners and tax payers could vote, while in small towns, elders voted for everyone else. Syngman Rhee, back by the U.S. government, set up authoritarian rule that coordinated closely with big business and lasted until the 1980s.\n\nThe elections were marred by terrorism resulting in 600 deaths between March and May. In April, North Korea, supposedly in an effort to delay the elections, sponsored a unity conference in Pyongyang to promote reunification of the two Koreas. Both Kim Koo and Kim Kyu-sik attended the conference. The conference was inconclusive towards any upcoming reunification, and the conference did not delay the elections on 10 May of that year.\n\nNot all South Koreans supported the elections; Kim Koo and Kim Kyu-sik opposed the election from the beginning and eventually both boycotted the elections. The people of Jeju island, Jeju island people, saw the election as a unilateral attempt of the United States military government under the flag of United Nations to separate a southern regime and to employ its first president Syngman Rhee, but police fired and killed Jeju demonstrators. Then April 3 uprising occurred, tens of thousands of Jeju people were killed by South Korean officials and right wings.\nThough these elections were not intended to be separate elections from the North Korean republic, and regardless of the negativity from the U.N. and the Korean public, or the bloodshed discontent that resulted from these elections, it is still the first time in Korean history that the citizens were allowed to vote for a national legislative body, for prior to 1945 the Korean peninsula had been under Japanese colonial rule for thirty-five years (1910–1945), and for thousands of years before Japanese rule, the peninsula was governed by the (Yi Dynasty) Korean royal family and scholarly officials.\n"}
{"id": "2312048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312048", "title": "Ezycom", "text": "Ezycom\n\nEzycom (EzyBBS) is a shareware bulletin board system (BBS) application first introduced for MS-DOS by Peter Davies. It is still in active development and currently being developed by Stephen Gibbs and the Ezycom Development Team. The current version of Ezycom is v2.15g2, which was released on 21 April 2010. A minor update was released on 21 May 2010.\n\nEzycom supports several features that make it \"easy\" to use (hence the name) including: multinode operation (up to 255 nodes depending on license type), network and multitasker support, Fidonet-compatible message base, built-in echomail and netmail tossers, built-in file transfer protocols and QWK/Blue Wave offline mail support (including offline netmail support). Ezycom is being used with the DOS, Windows, OS/2 and eComStation operating systems with success. It has also been proven to work under Linux using the Dosemu emulation software.\n\nPeter Davies originally developed Ezycom BBS as part of his master's degree dissertation in 1990. Due to lack of time to devote to Ezycom's development, Peter handed over the development reins to Stephen Gibbs in 1997. The next official release of Ezycom was v2.00 in 2003, which included several Y2K bug fixes. Stephen has since done all Ezycom development. The latest release was v2.15g2, in May 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312049", "title": "Party of the African Federation", "text": "Party of the African Federation\n\nParty of the African Federation () was a political party in French West Africa, led by Léopold Sédar Senghor and Modibo Keita (general secretary). PFA was founded on 24 March 1959.\n\nPFA held its constitutive conference July 1, 1959. PFA strived for the creation of a 'Black African nation freely associated with France'. PFA saw the Mali Federation as an initial step in this direction. \n\nThe Senegalese section of PFA was the Senegalese Progressive Union (UPS).\n\nWhen the Mali Federation broke down, PFA was disbanded.\n\nSource: Zuccarelli, François. \"La vie politique sénégalaise (1940-1988)\". Paris: CHEAM, 1988.\n"}
{"id": "2312053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312053", "title": "The Spectacular Scarlet Spider", "text": "The Spectacular Scarlet Spider\n\nThe Spectacular Scarlet Spider is a comic book series starring the Scarlet Spider published by Marvel Comics for two issues from November 1995 to December 1995.\n\nThe book was a direct continuation, in terms of creative teams and storylines, of \"The Spectacular Spider-Man\" series which the title temporarily replaced for two months between issues 229 and 230.\n\nIt was one of four briefly published books which featured the character. The others were \"The Amazing Scarlet Spider\", \"Scarlet Spider\", and \"Web of Scarlet Spider\".\n\nThe series began when, as part of the controversial Clone Saga, Peter Parker gave up being Spider-Man to retire with his pregnant wife, and the Scarlet Spider took on his duties. The title returned to its old title and numbering when Ben Reilly took on the Spider-Man name.\n\nThe writer of the two issues was Todd DeZago and the penciller was Sal Buscema.\n\nThe first issue is notable for being the first appearance of Override.\n\nBoth issues are collected in \"Spider-Man: The Complete Ben Reilly Epic Book 1\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2312056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312056", "title": "Pride &amp; Prejudice (2005 film)", "text": "Pride &amp; Prejudice (2005 film)\n\nPride & Prejudice is a 2005 romantic drama film directed by Joe Wright, in his feature directorial debut, and based on Jane Austen's 1813 novel of the same name. The film depicts five sisters from an English family of landed gentry as they deal with issues of marriage, morality and misconceptions. Keira Knightley stars in the lead role of Elizabeth Bennet, while Matthew Macfadyen plays her romantic interest Mr. Darcy. Produced by Working Title Films in association with StudioCanal, the film was released on 16 September 2005 in the United Kingdom and Ireland and on 11 November in the United States.\n\nScreenwriter Deborah Moggach initially attempted to make her script as faithful to the novel as possible, writing from Elizabeth's perspective while preserving much of the original dialogue. Wright, who was directing his first feature film, encouraged greater deviation from the text, including changing the dynamics within the Bennet family. Wright and Moggach set the film in an earlier period and avoided depicting a \"perfectly clean Regency world\", presenting instead a \"muddy hem version\" of the time. It was shot entirely on location in England on a 15-week schedule. Wright found casting difficult due to past performances of particular characters. The filmmakers had to balance who they thought was best for each role with the studio's desire for stars. Knightley was well-known in part from her work in the \"Pirates of the Caribbean\" film series, while Macfadyen had no international name recognition.\n\nThe film's themes emphasise realism, romanticism and family. It was marketed to a younger, mainstream audience; promotional items noted that it came from the producers of 2001's romantic comedy \"Bridget Jones's Diary\" before acknowledging its provenance as an Austen novel. \"Pride & Prejudice\" earned a worldwide gross of approximately $121 million, which was considered a commercial success. \"Pride & Prejudice\" earned a rating of 82% from review aggregator Metacritic, labeling it universally acclaimed. It earned four nominations at the 78th Academy Awards, including a Best Actress nomination for Knightley. Austen scholars have opined that Wright's work created a new hybrid genre by blending traditional traits of the heritage film with \"youth-oriented filmmaking techniques\".\n\nDuring the late 18th century, Mr. and Mrs. Bennet and their five daughters—Jane, Elizabeth, Mary, Kitty, and Lydia live in rural England. As the Bennets have no sons, their estate, Longbourn, is destined to be inherited by Mr. Bennet's cousin, Mr. Collins, a pompous clergyman. Mrs. Bennet, meanwhile, is eager to secure her daughters' futures through suitable marriages; she is delighted when wealthy bachelor Charles Bingley moves into Netherfield, a nearby estate.\n\nBingley is introduced to the local society at an assembly ball, along with his haughty sister, Caroline, and his aloof friend, the handsome and rich Mr. Darcy. Bingley is enchanted with Jane, while Elizabeth takes an instant dislike to Darcy after he coldly rebuffs her and later makes demeaning remarks about her that she overhears. While visiting the Bingleys, Jane falls ill and must stay to recuperate. When Elizabeth later walks to Netherfield to see Jane, she verbally spars with both Caroline and Darcy.\n\nLater, the Bennets are visited by Mr. Collins, who rapturously praises his patroness, Lady Catherine de Bourgh. Mr. Collins intends to propose to Jane, but Mrs. Bennet informs him that she will likely be engaged. Undaunted, Mr. Collins instead pursues Elizabeth. Meanwhile, the charming Lieutenant Wickham of the newly-arrived militia captures the girls' attention. Wickham, who is connected to the Darcy family, wins Elizabeth's sympathy by claiming Mr. Darcy denied him his rightful inheritance.\n\nAt the Netherfield ball, Elizabeth is startled by Darcy's abrupt request for a dance. While dancing, Elizabeth taunts him with witty sarcasm and Darcy responds in kind. During the evening, Elizabeth notes Bingley's infatuation with Jane, while her close friend, Charlotte, believes Bingley may interpret Jane's reserved manner as indifference.\n\nThe next day, Collins proposes to an appalled Elizabeth, who strongly declines, angering her mother. When the Bingley party unexpectedly return to London, Elizabeth dispatches a heartbroken Jane to the city to stay with their aunt and uncle, the Gardiners, hoping to re-establish contact between Jane and Bingley. Shortly after, Elizabeth is astonished that Charlotte, fearing spinsterhood, has accepted Mr. Collins' marriage proposal. Months later, Elizabeth visits the newly-married Mr. and Mrs. Collins who reside on Lady Catherine's manor estate, Rosings. When they are invited to dine there, Elizabeth is surprised that Darcy, who is Lady Catherine's nephew, is present, along with his friend, Colonel Fitzwilliam. Darcy exhibits a friendlier manner towards Elizabeth. At church the next day, Colonel Fitzwilliam, unaware Jane is Elizabeth's sister, casually mentions that Darcy recently separated Bingley from an \"undesirable\" match.\n\nDistraught, Elizabeth leaves, but Darcy follows and proposes marriage, declaring he loves her \"most ardently\" despite her inferior rank. Elizabeth angrily refuses, citing his treatment of Jane and Wickham. Darcy defends his belief of Jane's disinterest in Bingley. Darcy criticizes the Bennet family's occasional social impropriety, excluding Elizabeth and Jane. Elizabeth hurls furious words at Darcy, leaving him angry and heartbroken. Darcy later presents Elizabeth a letter in which he describes Wickham's true character and exploits, including his squandering the bequest Darcy's father left him. Wickham also attempted to seduce Darcy's 15-year-old sister, Georgiana, into eloping, prompted by her fortune. Darcy also explains his reason for separating Bingley and Jane. Elizabeth privately acknowledges she misjudged Darcy and that his criticisms regarding her family are partially valid.\n\nSeveral months later, Elizabeth accompanies the Gardiners on a trip to the Peak District. Their tour includes Pemberley, the Darcy estate. Elizabeth agrees to go only after hearing that Darcy is away. Elizabeth is awed by Pemberley's grandeur. She unexpectedly runs into Darcy, who has returned early. He invites her and the Gardiners to dine at Pemberley the next day. Darcy's mannerism has softened considerably, and Georgiana, having heard her brother's flattering reports about Elizabeth, says she already likes her.\n\nJane has sent an urgent letter saying their sister, Lydia, has run off with Wickham. Elizabeth tearfully blurts this out to Darcy and the Gardiners, then decides to return home. Darcy leaves, and Elizabeth never expects to see him again. At Longbourn, Mr. and Mrs. Bennet fear their disgraced daughter has socially ruined them and destroyed their other daughters' chances for good marriages. A week later, Mr. Gardiner sends news that the pair has been discovered in London and are now married. The newlyweds return to Longbourn, and Lydia lets slip to Elizabeth that it was actually Darcy who had found them, paid for their wedding, and arranged Wickham's military assignment.\n\nBingley returns to Netherfield, and he and Darcy soon visit Longbourn; Bingley proposes to Jane, who accepts. Late that night, Lady Catherine arrives to see Elizabeth and demand she never become engaged to Darcy, a request Elizabeth refuses. While walking the moor early the next morning, she meets Darcy, who regrets his aunt's actions. He professes his continued love, and Elizabeth, her feelings radically altered, accepts his proposal.\n\nMr. Bennet gives Elizabeth his consent to marry after assurances she truly loves Darcy. In the film's U.S. release, an additional last scene shows the happy newlyweds outside at Pemberley.\n\nAs with several recent Jane Austen adaptations, \"Pride & Prejudice\" was an Anglo-American collaboration, between British studio Working Title Films (in association with French company StudioCanal) and its American parent company Universal Studios. Working Title at the time was known for mainstream productions like \"Bridget Jones's Diary\" and \"Love Actually\" that drew international audiences, rather than films in the historical drama genre. Its co-chairman Tim Bevan explained that the studio wanted to \"bring Austen's original story, concentrating on Lizzie, back in all its glory to the big screen for audiences everywhere to enjoy\". Given a \"relatively inexpensive\" budget of £22 million ($28 million), the film was expected to excel at the box office, particularly based on the commercial successes of \"Romeo + Juliet\" (1996) and \"Shakespeare in Love\" (1998) as well as the resurgence of interest in Austen's works.\nGiven little instruction from the studio, screenwriter Deborah Moggach spent over two years adapting \"Pride and Prejudice\" for film. She had sole discretion with the early script, and eventually wrote approximately ten drafts. Realising it held \"a perfect three-act structure\", Moggach attempted to be as faithful to the original novel as possible, calling it \"so beautifully shaped as a story – the ultimate romance about two people who think they hate each other but who are really passionately in love. I felt, 'If it's not broken, don't fix it.'\" While she could not reproduce the novel's \"fiercely wonderful dialogue in its entirety\", she attempted to keep much of it.\n\nMoggach's first script was closest to Austen's book, but later versions trimmed extraneous storylines and characters. Moggach initially wrote all scenes from Elizabeth's point of view in keeping with the novel; she later set a few scenes from the male perspective, such as when Bingley practices his marriage proposal, to \"show Darcy and Bingley being close\" and to indicate Darcy was a \"human being instead of being stuck up\". Small details were inserted that acknowledged wider events outside of the characters' circle, such as those then occurring in France. While Moggach is the only screenwriter credited for the film, playwright Lee Hall also made early additions to the script.\n\nTelevision director Joe Wright was hired in early 2004, making \"Pride & Prejudice\" his feature film directorial debut. He was considered a surprising choice for a film in the romance drama genre due to his past work with social realism. Wright's body of work had impressed the producers, who were looking for a fresh perspective; they sent him a script despite the fact that Wright had not read the novel. He commented that at the time, \"I didn't know if I was really all that interested; I thought I was a little bit more mainstream than this, a bit more edgy. But then I read the script and I was surprised I was very moved by it\". He next read the novel, which he called \"an amazing piece of character observation and it really seemed like the first piece of British Realism. It felt like it was a true story; had a lot of truth in it about understanding how to love other people, understanding how to overcome prejudices, understanding the things that separate us from other people ... things like that.\"\n\nThe only adaptation of \"Pride and Prejudice\" Wright had seen was the 1940 production, which was the last time the novel had been adapted into a feature film. The director purposely did not watch the other productions, both out of fear he would inadvertently steal ideas and because he wanted to be as original as possible. He did, however, watch other period films, including Ang Lee's \"Sense and Sensibility\", Roger Michell's \"Persuasion\", and John Schlesinger's \"Far from the Madding Crowd\"; Wright cited this last film as the greatest influence on his own adaptation, calling it \"very real and very honest – and it is quite romantic as well\". In trying to create an atmosphere of charged flirtation, the director also gained inspiration from teen romance films such as \"Sixteen Candles\" and \"The Breakfast Club\".\n\nWright's hire occurred while Moggach was on her third draft. Despite her desire to work closely with Austen's dialogue, Wright made an effort to not \"be too reverential to [it]. I don't believe people spoke like that then; it's not natural.\" While a few scenes, such as the discussion over accomplished women, aligned closely with the author's original dialogue, many others \"substituted instead a mixture of modern idiom and archaic-sounding sentence structure\". One alteration concerned politeness; Wright noted that while Austen's work had characters waiting before speaking, he believed that \"particularly in big families of girls, everyone tends to speak over each other, finishing each other's sentences, etc. So I felt that the Bennet family's conversations would be overlapping like that.\" \"Sense and Sensibility\" actress and screenwriter Emma Thompson aided in script development, though she opted to be uncredited. She advised the nervous director about adapting Austen for the screen and made dialogue recommendations, such as with parts of the Collins-Charlotte storyline.\n\nCiting the year Austen first wrote a draft of the novel, Wright and Moggach changed the period setting from 1813 (the novel's publication date) to the late eighteenth century; this decision was partly because Wright wanted to highlight the differences within an England influenced by the French Revolution, as he was fascinated that it had \"caused an atmosphere among the British aristocracy of fear\". Additionally, Wright chose the earlier period because he hated dresses with an empire silhouette, which were popular in the later period. The decision helped make the film visually distinct from other recent Austen adaptations. In comparison to the popular 1995 BBC version, which featured Colin Firth and Jennifer Ehle, producer Paul Webster desired to make an adaptation that \"doesn't conform to the television drama stereotypes of a perfect clean Regency world\". Wright and Moggach opted for a \"muddy hem version\" of Longbourn, presenting a more rural setting than in previous adaptations out of a desire to depict the Bennets in \"very close proximity to their rural life\" and to emphasise their relative poverty. While the degree of poverty was criticised by some critics, Wright felt that the \"mess adds to the drama of the predicament that the family were in\", and helps contrast the Bennets, Darcys, and Bingleys.\n\nWright found casting of the film to be difficult because he was very particular about \"the types of people [he] wanted to work with\". While interviewing to direct, he insisted that the actors match the ages of the characters in the novel. Wright specifically cast actors that had rapport on and off screen, and insisted that they partake in three weeks of rehearsal in improvisation workshops. Wright also had to balance who he thought was best for each role with what the producers wanted – mainly a big name attraction. Though Wright had not initially pictured someone as attractive as English actress Keira Knightley for the lead role of Elizabeth Bennet, he cast her after realising that the actress \"is really a tomboy [and] has a lively mind and a great sense of humour\". Knightley at the time was known for \"Bend It Like Beckham\" and the \"Pirates of the Caribbean\" film series. She had been an Austen fan since age 7, but initially feared taking the role out of apprehension that she would be doing \"an absolute copy of Jennifer Ehle's performance\", which she deeply admired. Knightley believed Elizabeth is \"what you aspire to be: she's funny, she's witty and intelligent. She's a fully rounded and very much loved character.\" For the period, the actress studied etiquette, history and dancing but ran into trouble when she acquired a short haircut while preparing for her role in the bounty hunter film \"Domino\".\n\nWebster found the casting of Darcy especially hard due to the character's iconic status and because \"Colin Firth cast a very long shadow\" as the 1995 Darcy. Wright later commented that his choice of Knightley allowed him to cast comparative unknown Matthew Macfadyen, something that would have been impossible had he chosen a less well-known actress for Elizabeth Bennet. Macfadyen at the time was known for his role in the British television spy series \"Spooks\", but had no recognition internationally. A fan of the actor's television work, Wright called Macfadyen \"a proper manly man ... I didn't want a pretty boy kind of actor. His properties were the ones I felt I needed [for Darcy]. Matthew's a great big hunk of a guy.\"\n\nAccording to Wright, Rosamund Pike was cast as the eldest sister \"because [he] knew she wasn't going to play her as a nice, simple person. Jane has a real interior world, she has her heart broken.\" Despite being Pike's ex-boyfriend, Simon Woods was cast as her romantic interest Mr Bingley. The other three Bennet sisters were played by Talulah Riley, Carey Mulligan, and Jena Malone, the only American actress among them. Wright believed Malone to have a \"pretty faultless English accent\". Mulligan heard about the casting call at a dinner hosted by Julian Fellowes, to whom she had written a letter after failing to get into drama school; she won the part after three auditions. Tamzin Merchant appears as Georgiana Darcy; she was hired despite having no previous acting experience after she wrote a letter to the casting director. In addition to Merchant, \"Pride & Prejudice\" was the feature film debut of both Mulligan and Riley.\n\nDonald Sutherland reminded Wright of his own father and was cast as the Bennet patriarch; Wright thought the actor possessed the \"strength to handle those six women\". Brenda Blethyn was hired to play Mrs Bennet, whom Moggach believed to be the unsung heroine of the film; Wright explained that it was \"a tricky part [to fill], as she can be very annoying; you want to stop her chattering and shrieking. But Brenda has the humour and the heart to show the amount of love and care Mrs Bennet has for her daughters.\" Wright convinced veteran actress Judi Dench to join the cast as Lady Catherine de Bourgh by writing her a letter that read \"I love it when you play a bitch. Please come and be a bitch for me.\" Dench had only one week available to shoot her scenes, forcing Wright to make them his first days of filming.\n\nKnown for her BAFTA award-winning work on the 2004 film \"Vera Drake\", Jacqueline Durran was hired as the costume designer. She and Wright approached his film \"as a difficult thing to tackle\" because of their desire to distinguish it from the television adaptation. Due to Wright's dislike of the high waistline, Durran focused on later eighteenth century fashions that often included a corseted, natural waistline rather than an empire silhouette (which became popular after the 1790s). A generational divide was established: the older characters dress in mid-eighteenth century fashions while the young wear \"a sort of proto-Regency style of hair and dress\".\n\nDurran's costumes also helped emphasise social rank among the different characters; Caroline Bingley for instance is introduced in an empire silhouetted dress, clothing that would have then been at the height of fashion. During her interview, Durran opined that all the women wear white at the Netherfield Ball due to its contemporary popularity, an idea that Wright credits as his reason for hiring her. Costumes and hairstyles were adjusted to appeal to contemporary audiences, sacrificing historical accuracy.\n\nTo help differentiate the Bennet sisters, Durran viewed Elizabeth as the \"tomboy\", clothing her in earthy colours because of her love of the countryside. For the other sisters, Durran remarked, \"Jane was the most refined and yet it's still all a bit slapdash and homemade, because the Bennets have no money. One of the main things Joe wanted was for the whole thing to have a provincial feel. Mary is the bluestocking: serious and practical. And then Lydia and Kitty are a bit Tweedledum and Tweedledee in a kind of teenage way. I tried to make it so that they'd be sort of mirror images. If one's wearing a green dress, the other will wear a green jacket; so you always have a visual asymmetry between the two.\" In contrast to the 1940 film, the 2005 production displayed the Bennet sisters in worn-down but comfortable dresses.\n\nMr Darcy's costume went through a series of phases. Durran noted: \n\nMoggach believed the novel was very filmable, \"despite it containing no description and being a very unvisual book\". To Wright, many other period films had relied on paintings for inspiration rather than photographs, causing them to appear unreal. He thus used \"Austen's prose [to give him] many visual references for the people in the story\", including using close-up shots of various characters. The filmmakers also changed several scenes to more romantic locales than those in the book. For instance, in the film, Darcy first proposes outdoors in a rainstorm at a building with neoclassical architecture; in the book, this scene takes place inside a parsonage. In the film, his second proposal occurs on the misty moors as dawn breaks; in the book, he and Elizabeth are walking down a country lane in broad daylight. Wright has acknowledged that \"there are a lot of period film clichés; some of them are in the film and some are not, but for me it was important to question them\".\nDuring script development, the crew created a \"constant going back and forth between script and location\". The film was shot entirely on location within England on an 11-week schedule during the 2004 summer. Co-producer Paul Webster noted that \"it is quite unusual for a movie this size to be shot entirely on location. Part of Joe [Wright]'s idea was to try to create a reality which allows the actors to relax and feel at one with their environment.\" Working under production designer Sarah Greenwood and set decorator Katie Spencer, the crew filmed on seven estates in six different counties. Because \"nothing exists in the United Kingdom that is untouched by the twenty-first century\", many of the sites required substantial work to make them suitable for filming. Visual effects company Double Negative digitally restored several locations to make them contemporaneous; they eradicated weeds, enhanced gold plating on window frames, and removed anachronisms such as gravel driveways and electricity pylons. Double Negative also developed the typeface used for the film's title sequence.\n\nProduction staff selected particularly grand-looking residences to better convey the wealth and power of certain characters. Locations included Chatsworth House in Derbyshire, the largest privately held country house in England with its spectacular rooms frescoed by Antonio Verrio. Chatsworth and Wilton House in Salisbury stood in for Pemberley. After a search of various sites in England, the moated manor house Groombridge Place in Kent was chosen for Longbourn. Location manager Adam Richards believed Groombridge had an \"immense charm\" that was \"untouched by post-17th Century development\". Reflecting Wright's choice of realism, Groombridge's interior was designed to be \"shabby chic\". Representing Netherfield Park was the late-18th century site Basildon Park in Berkshire, leading it to close for seven weeks to allow time for filming. Burghley House in Cambridgeshire stood in for Rosings, while the adjacent town of Stamford served as Meryton. Other locations included Haddon Hall (for The Inn at Lambton), the Temple of Apollo and Palladian Bridge of Stourhead (for the Gardens of Rosings), Hunsford (for Collins' parsonage and church) and Peak District (for Elizabeth and the Gardiners' tour). The first dance scenes were shot on a set in a potato warehouse in Lincolnshire with the employment of local townspeople as extras; this was the only set the crew built that was not already in existence.\n\nItalian composer Dario Marianelli wrote the film score. The soundtrack is performed by the French pianist Jean-Yves Thibaudet accompanied by the English Chamber Orchestra.\n\nThe early piano sonatas of Ludwig van Beethoven \"became a point of reference\" and \"starting point\" for the original score. Some pieces were inspired by the film's period, with the assumption that they could conceivably have been heard during that time and contained actual dance cues that were fitting for the late eighteenth century. Pieces that actors perform were composed first, before filming began.\n\nThe soundtrack ultimately contained seventeen instrumental tracks of music organised in a different way from the film.\n\nIn contrast to the five-hour BBC adaptation, Wright compressed his film into two hours and nine minutes of screen time. He remarked that the film is \"obviously about Elizabeth and Darcy, following them and anything that detracts or diverts you from that story is what you have to cut\". Some of the most notable changes from the original book include time compression of several major sequences, including the departure of Wickham and the militia, Elizabeth's visit to Rosings Park and Hunsford Parsonage, Elizabeth's visit to Pemberley, Lydia's elopement and subsequent crisis; the elimination of several supporting characters, including Mr and Mrs Hurst, Mr and Mrs Phillips, Lady and Maria Lucas, Mrs Younge, several of Lydia's friends (including Colonel and Mrs Forster) and various military officers and townspeople; and the elimination of several sections in which characters reflect or converse on events that have recently occurred—for example, Elizabeth's chapter-long change of mind after reading Darcy's letter.\n\nMoggach and Wright debated how to end the film, but knew they did not want to have a wedding scene \"because we didn't want Elizabeth to come off as the girl who became a queen at this lavish wedding, or for it to be corny\". Shortly before the North American release, the film was modified to include a final scene (not in the novel) of the married Darcys enjoying a romantic evening and passionate kiss at Pemberley in an attempt to attract sentimental viewers; this became a source of complaint for the Jane Austen Society of North America (JASNA). After watching a preview of the film before its wide release, former JASNA president Elsa Solender commented, \"It has nothing at all of Jane Austen in it, is inconsistent with the first two-thirds of the film, insults the audience with its banality and ought to be cut before release\". It had been removed from the British version after preview audiences found it unintentionally humorous; however, later audiences complained that they were excluded from viewing this version, causing the film to be re-released in the UK and Ireland 10 weeks after the original UK premiere date. The original British version ended with Mr Bennet's blessing upon Elizabeth and Darcy's union, thus circumventing the last chapter in the novel, which summarises the lives of the Darcys and the other main characters over the next several years.\n\nFilm, literary, and Austen scholars noted the appearance of romance and romanticism within \"Pride & Prejudice\", especially in comparison to previous adaptations. Sarah Ailwood marked the film as \"an essentially Romantic interpretation of Austen's novel\", citing as evidence Wright's attention to nature as a means to \"position Elizabeth and Darcy as Romantic figures ... Wright's \"Pride & Prejudice\" takes as its central focus Austen's concern with exploring the nature of the Romantic self and the possibilities for women and men to achieve individual self-fulfillment within an oppressive patriarchal social and economic order.\" Likewise, Catherine Stewart-Beer of Oxford Brookes University called Elizabeth's presence on the Derbyshire cliff a \"stunning, magical evocation of Wright's strong stylistic brand of Postmodern Romanticism\", but found this less like Austen and more reminiscent of Emily Brontë's \"Wuthering Heights\". In her analysis, University of Provence scholar Lydia Martin concluded that the \"Romantic bias of the film is shown through the shifts in the characters' relationships, the soundtrack and the treatment of landscape\".\n\nRealism is a prominent aspect of the film, a theme confirmed by Wright in interviews as well as the DVD audio commentary. In a 2007 article, Ursinus College film studies professor Carole Dole argued that \"Pride & Prejudice\" is \"a hybrid that embraces both an irreverent realism to which younger audiences are accustomed (and which reflects the director's realist aesthetic) and the classic heritage film's reverence for country houses, attractive landscapes and authentic period detail\". Such \"irreverent realism\" included the depiction of Longbourn as a working farm complete with chickens, cattle and pigs; as Dole explains, \"The agricultural realities of 1790s England are equally evident in the enclosed yard with barn and hay where Lizzie twirls barefoot over the mud on a rope swing\". Referring to recent adaptations such as 1999's gritty \"Mansfield Park\", Dole cited \"Pride & Prejudice\" as evidence that the heritage film is still around but has \"been transformed into a more flexible genre\". Jessica Durgan agreed with this assessment, writing that the film \"simultaneously reject[s] and embrac[es] heritage to attract a larger audience\".\n\nRaised with three sisters, Moggach was particularly interested in the story's family dynamics. Brock University professor Barbara K. Seeber believed that in contrast to the novel, the 2005 adaptation emphasises the familial over the romantic. Evidence of this can be seen in how \"Pride & Prejudice\" \"significantly recast the Bennet family, in particular its patriarch, presenting Mr Bennet as a sensitive and kind father whose role in the family's misfortunes is continually downplayed.\" Seeber further observed that the film is \"the first to present Mrs Bennet in a sympathetic light\", with Mr Bennet displayed as \"an attentive husband as well as a loving father.\"\n\nStewart-Beer and Austen scholar Sally B. Palmer noted alterations within the depiction of the Bennet family; Stewart-Beer remarked that while their family home \"might be chaotic, in this version it is, at heart, a happy home—much happier and much less dysfunctional, than Austen's original version of Longbourn ... For one, Mr and Mrs Bennet actually seem to like each other, even love each other, a characterisation which is a far cry from the source text.\" Producer Paul Webster acknowledged the familial theme in the DVD featurette \"A Bennet Family Portrait\", remarking \"Yes, it's a great love story between Elizabeth Bennet and Fitzwilliam Darcy, but underpinning it all is the kind of love that runs this family.\"\n\nWright intended for the film to be \"as subjective as possible\" in being from Elizabeth's perspective; the audience first glimpses Darcy when she does. This focus on Elizabeth features some dramatic changes from the novel. Knightley's Elizabeth has an \"increasingly aloof and emotionally distant\" relationship with her family. Evidence of this can be seen with Elizabeth's gradual alienation from Jane as the film progresses; this is in contrast to the book, where Elizabeth confides more of her feelings to Jane after difficult events. Wright wanted to create a \"real\" relationship between the two sisters and have them grow apart, as he thought the book depicted them as too \"syrupy.\" Moggach's intent was for Elizabeth to \"keep secrets to herself. They are a great burden to her ... As she keeps all this to herself, we feel for her more and more. The truest comedy, I believe, is born from pain.\"\n\nIn her \"feisty, impassioned\" interactions with Darcy and \"rebellious refusal to 'perform'\" for Lady Catherine, Stewart-Beer sees Knightley's depiction as \"far removed from Austen's original Elizabeth, who has a greater sense of grounded maturity, even though both Elizabeths have an occasional inclination to fluster, fun and giggles.\" According to George Washington University professor Laurie Kaplan, while Wright's focus on Elizabeth is consistent with the novel, the screenplay removed her line of self-recognition: \"Till this moment, I never knew myself\". Kaplan characterises the sentence as Elizabeth's \"most important\", and believes its deletion \"violates not only the spirit and the essence of Austen's story but the viewer's expectations as well.\"\n\nAfter a string of Jane Austen semi-adaptions in the late 1990s and early 2000s, \"Pride & Prejudice\" was positioned to take audiences \"back into the world of period drama and what many saw as a more authentic version of Austen.\" While the novel was known to audiences, the large number of related productions required the film to distinguish itself. It was marketed to attract mainstream, young viewers, with one observer referring to it as \"the ultimate chick-flick romance\" and \"more commercial than previous big-screen Austen adaptations.\" Another wrote that it brings \"millennial girlhood to the megaplex ... If Ehle's Lizzie is every forty-, or fifty-something's favorite independent, even 'mature,' Austen heroine, Knightley is every twenty-something's sexpot good girl.\" An ampersand replaced the word \"and\" in the film title, similar to the 1996 postmodern film \"Romeo + Juliet\".\n\nAlready a star at the time of release, Knightley's appearance in the film was emphasised by featuring her in all promotional materials (similar to Colin Firth's prominent appearance in the 1995 adaptation). Several commentators likened the main poster of \"Pride & Prejudice\" to that of 1995's \"Sense and Sensibility\", which was seen as an attempt to attract the same demographic. Advertising noted that the film came \"from the producers of \"Bridget Jones's Diary\"\", a 2001 romantic comedy film, before mentioning Austen. Leading up to the release, fans were allowed to download pictures and screensavers online, which emphasised the differences between \"Pride & Prejudice\" and previous adaptations. Lydia Martin wrote that in contrast to past \"Pride and Prejudice\" productions, marketing materials downplayed the \"suggested antagonism between the heroes\" in favour of highlighting a \"romantic relationship\", as can be seen with the positioning of the characters as well as with the tagline, \"Sometimes the last person on earth you want to be with is the one you can't be without.\"\n\nOn 11 September 2005, \"Pride & Prejudice\" premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival as a special Gala Presentation. The film was released in cinemas on 16 September in the United Kingdom and Ireland. It achieved the number one spot in its first week, earning £2.5 million ($4.6 million) while playing on 397 screens. The film stayed at the top for two more weeks, earning by then a total of over £9 million at the UK box office. It was featured on 412 screens at its widest domestic release.\n\nOn 11 November 2005, the film debuted in the United States with an opening weekend of $2.9 million on 215 screens. Two weeks later, it played on 1,299 screens and box office returns increased to $7.2 million; the film left cinemas the week of 24 February 2006 with a total US gross of $38,405,088. Jack Foley, the president of distribution of Focus Features, the film's US distributor, attributed \"Pride & Prejudice\"s success in America to Austen's appeal to \"the boomer market\" and its status as a known \"brand\".\n\n\"Pride & Prejudice\" was released in an additional fifty-nine countries between September 2005 and May 2006 by United International Pictures. With a worldwide gross of $121,147,947, it was the 72nd highest grossing film of 2005 in the US and was the 41st highest internationally.\n\nIn the US and UK, Universal Studios Home Entertainment released the standard VHS and DVD in February 2006 for both widescreen and fullframe; attached bonus features included audio commentary by director Joe Wright, a look into Austen's life and the ending scene of Elizabeth and Darcy kissing. On 13 November 2007, Universal released the deluxe edition DVD to coincide with the theatrical arrival of Wright's 2007 film \"Atonement\". The deluxe edition included both widescreen and fullscreen features, the original soundtrack CD, a collectible book and booklet, as well as a number of special features not included in the original DVD. In the US, a Blu-ray version of the film was released by Universal on 26 January 2010, which also contained bonus features.\n\n\"Pride & Prejudice\" was only the second film version after \"the famed, but oddly flawed, black-and-white 1940 adaptation, starring Greer Garson and Laurence Olivier\", and until 2005, \"The Times\" considered the 1995 television adaptation \"so dominant, so universally adored, [that] it has lingered in the public consciousness as a cinematic standard.\" Wright's film consequently met with some scepticism from admirers of Austen, especially in relation to plot changes and casting choices.\"Any resemblance to scenes and characters created by Miss Austen is, of course, entirely coincidental,\" mocked \"The New Yorker's\" film critic. Given Austen's characters were landed gentry, especially criticised was the re-imagining of the Bennetts as country bumpkins, lacking even the basics of table manners, and their home \"a barnyard\".\n\nComparing six major adaptations of \"Pride and Prejudice\" in 2005, \"The Daily Mirror\" gave the only top marks of 9 out of 10 to the 1995 serial and the 2005 film, leaving the other adaptations behind with six or fewer points. On the review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes, the film has a \"certified fresh\" approval rating of 86% based on reviews from 173 critics, with an average rating of 7.7/10. The website's consensus reads: \"Sure, it's another adaptation of cinema's fave Jane Austen novel, but key performances and a modern filmmaking sensibility make this familiar period piece fresh and enjoyable.\" Metacritic reported an average score of 82 out of 100, based on 37 reviews and classified the film as \"universally acclaimed\".\n\nCritics claimed the film's time constraints did not capture the depth and complexity of the television serials and called Wright's adaptation \"obviously [not as] daring or revisionist\" as the serial. JASNA president Joan Klingel Ray preferred the young age of Knightley and Macfadyen, saying that Jennifer Ehle had formerly been \"a little too 'heavy' for the role.\" Peter Bradshaw of \"The Guardian\", while praising Knightley for an outstanding performance \"which lifts the whole movie\", considered the casting of the leads \"arguably a little more callow than Firth and Ehle.\" He does add that \"Only a snob, a curmudgeon, or someone with necrophiliac loyalty to the 1995 BBC version with Colin Firth and Jennifer Ehle could fail to enjoy [Knightley's] performance.\" At the time, BBC film critic Stella Papamichael considered it Knightley's \"best performance yet.\" However, \"The Daily Telegraph\" critic thought Knightley's acting skills slight, in her view, \"Someone who radiates little more than good-mannered perkiness\", and that between her and Macfadyen there was \"little spark\".\n\nCritics were divided about Macfadyen's portrayal of Darcy, expressing pleasant surprise, dislike for his lack of gradual emotional shift as in the novel, and praise for his matching the insecure and sensitive personality of the book character better than Firth.\n\nCritics also drew attention to other aspects of the film. Writing for \"The Sydney Morning Herald\", Sandra Hall criticised Wright's attention to realism for being \"careless with the customs and conventions that were part of the fabric of Austen's world.\" In another review, \"Time Out\" magazine lamented the absence of Austen's \"brilliant sense of irony\", remarking that the film's \"romantic melodrama's played up at the expense of her razor-sharp wit.\" More positively, Derek Elley of \"Variety\" magazine praised Wright and Moggach for \"extracting the youthful essence\" of the novel while also \"providing a richly detailed setting\" under Greenwood and Durran's supervision. Equally pleased with the film was the \"San Francisco Chronicle\"s Ruthe Stein, who wrote that Wright made a \"spectacular feature film debut\" that is \"creatively reimagined and sublimely entertaining\". Claudia Puig of \"USA Today\" called it \"a stellar adaptation, bewitching the viewer completely and incandescently with an exquisite blend of emotion and wit.\"\n\nWright's adaptation failed to have the same cultural impact as the 1995 serial and has since attracted sharply-divided opinions. However, even three years after the release, Knightley was still associated with Elizabeth Bennet among a generation of young viewers who had not seen the 1995 production. Given the varied opinions about the film, JASNA published an edited special issue of its online journal \"Persuasions On-Line\" in 2007 with the collaboration of nineteen Austen scholars from six countries; the intent was to foster discussion and stimulate scholarly analysis. JASNA had done this only once before, for the 1996 film \"Emma\".\n\n\"Pride & Prejudice\" impacted later productions in the costume drama and heritage film genres. Literary critics protested that Wright's adaptation effectively \"popularized Austen's celebrated romance and brought her novel to the screen as an easy visual read for an undemanding mainstream audience.\" Carole Dole noted that the film's success \"only made it more likely that future adaptations of Austen will feature, if not necessarily mud, then at least youthful and market-tested performers and youth-oriented filmmaking techniques balanced with the visual pleasures of the heritage film.\" She cited Anne Hathaway in the 2007 film \"Becoming Jane\" as an example. Jessica Durgan added that \"Pride & Prejudice\" conceived a new hybrid genre by rejecting the visual cues of the heritage film, which attracted \"youth and mainstream audiences without alienating the majority of heritage fans.\"\n\nProduction of \"Pride & Prejudice\" began Wright's relationship with Working Title Films, the first of four collaborations. Many members of the film's cast and crew joined Wright in his later directorial efforts. For his adaptation of \"Atonement\", which he viewed as \"a direct reaction to \"Pride & Prejudice\"\", Wright hired Knightley, Blethyn, Marianelli, Thibaudet, Greenwood, and Durran. \"Atonement\" employed themes similar to Austen's, including the notion of a young writer living in \"an isolated English country house\" who \"mixes up desires and fantasies, truths and fiction.\" Wright's 2009 film \"The Soloist\" included Hollander, Malone, and Marianelli, while Hollander was also featured in \"Hanna\" (2011). Wright's 2012 adaptation of \"Anna Karenina\" features Knightley, Macfadyen, Marianelli, Durran, and Greenwood and is produced by Bevan, Eric Fellner, and Webster.\n\nOn 11 December 2017, Netflix announced that a person from Chile watched the film 278 times during the entire year. It was later reported that the person was a 51-year old woman, who declared herself as \"obssesed\" with the film and saw Elizabeth Bennet as \"a feminist icon\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312058", "title": "Ronald Fraser (actor)", "text": "Ronald Fraser (actor)\n\nRonald Fraser (11 April 1930 – 13 March 1997) was a British character actor, who appeared in numerous British plays, films and television shows from the 1950s to the 1990s. An unusual appearance and unique delivery made him a natural comedic actor. Fraser was a familiar figure in West End clubs during the sixties, and despite a long-standing reputation as one of the hardest drinking of British actors he was still working in his last years. He was perhaps best known as Basil \"Badger\" Allenby-Johnson in the 1970s television series \"The Misfit\".\n\nRonald Fraser was born in Ashton-under-Lyne, Lancashire, the son of an interior decorator and builder from Scotland. He attended Ashton Grammar School. He was educated in Scotland and did national service as a lieutenant in the Seaforth Highlanders. \n\nWhile serving in Benghazi in North Africa, he appeared in the comic play \"French Without Tears\" by Terence Rattigan. He trained as an actor at RADA until 1953 and soon appeared at Glasgow's Citizens' Theatre. He joined the Old Vic repertory company in 1954, making his first London appearance in \"The Good Sailor\", a stage adaptation of Herman Melville's novel, \"Billy Budd\".\n\nIn the West End, he appeared in \"The Long and the Short and the Tall\", \"The Ginger Man\", \"The Singular Man\", \"Androcles and the Lion\", \"The Showing Up of Blanco Posnet\", \"Purple Dust\" by Seán O'Casey, \"Entertaining Mr Sloane\", Joseph Papp's production of \"The Pirates of Penzance\" and \"High Society\". He also played Falstaff in a production of \"The Merry Wives of Windsor\" at the Open Air Theatre, Regent's Park. His only Broadway show was the flop \"La Grosse Valise\" by Robert Dhéry, Gérard Calvi and Harold Rome.\n\nHe appeared in numerous television roles from 1954, and in nearly 50 films from 1957, mostly in comedies.\n\nFraser was a resident of Hampstead, London. He was a heavy drinker and a well-known figure in the local hostelries. He was married from 1956 to 1964 to Elizabeth Howe, and the couple had two daughters.\n\nHe died of a haemorrhage, aged 66, in London on 13 March 1997.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312062", "title": "Uncle Moishy and the Mitzvah Men", "text": "Uncle Moishy and the Mitzvah Men\n\nUncle Moishy and the Mitzvah Men is a Jewish American children's educational entertainment group based in New York City, featured in audio and video releases, as well as appearing live in concert. Their tapes, CDs and videos are sold in most Jewish music and Judaica stores.\n\nUncle Moishy has traveled internationally, giving shows in Israel, Canada, England, Austria, South Africa and Hong Kong.\n\nLead musicians and singers Moshe Tanenbaum and Yossi Berktin are Hasidic Orthodox Jews who play \"Uncle Moishy\" and lead the \"Mitzvah Men\" in song and verse that expresses the observant religious lifestyle of Orthodox Judaism. They focus on the religious aspects of Judaism that most easily relate to young children, such as the laws of \"Shabbat\", \"kashrut\" and the giving of charity, as well as the good deeds of \"Pirkei Avot\" (Ethics of Our Fathers), such as helping others and being nice.\n\nUncle Moishy began in Toronto, Ontario, Canada in 1975, In 1979 his first album appeared in conjunction with the Jewish Education Program. The original band members were Tanenbaum, Zale Newman, and Chaim Shainhouse; Shainhouse left early on, though he composed for and sang on the first few albums. Uncle Moishy is produced and managed by the Suki and Ding company. The group has produced 22 audio albums and 14 videos to date.\n\nIn 2017, Moshe Tenenbaum under new management, producers known as Sonic Duo, released his first solo album titled 'Welcome'. \nIn 2018, the 'All New Uncle Moishy' Yossi Berktin, with producers Suki and Ding released the character's 19th album.\n"}
{"id": "2312064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312064", "title": "La Salle Green Hills", "text": "La Salle Green Hills\n\nLa Salle Green Hills (\"LSGH\") is a private Catholic school exclusively for boys located on Ortigas Avenue, Mandaluyong City, Metro Manila, Philippines. It is run by the Roman Catholic Brothers of the Christian Schools- Philippine District. It was established in 1959 by the De La Salle Brothers led by Brother H. Gabriel Connon FSC of then De La Salle College Manila primarily to provide more grade school slots to the then very popular De La Salle Grade School (1911–1984) in Taft Avenue, Manila.\n\nLa Salle Green Hills offers elementary education, and secondary education.\n\nDe La Salle Philippines, the association of all Lasallian institutions in the Philippines, after De La Salle University in Manila (1911), De La Salle Araneta University in Malabon City (1946), University of St. La Salle in Bacolod (1952), and the La Salle Academy in Iligan (1958).\n\nLa Salle Green Hills was given a clean seven-year accreditation by the PAASCU in 1991 and 1998, thus making it the first high school institution in the Philippines with this distinction. Both Grade School and High School departments of La Salle Green Hills were awarded Level III accreditation—the highest possible level—by the PAASCU and FAAP.\n\nIn the Early 1950s, the Brothers of De La Salle College-Manila led by Brother H. Gabriel Connon FSC, acquired a six hectare lot on Ortigas Avenue in Mandaluyong City to relocate the De La Salle Novitiate from Baguio and to accommodate increasing requests for admission to the then De La Salle Grade School on Taft Avenue, Manila.\n\nIn July 1959, La Salle Green Hills (then spelled La Salle – Green Hills) opened its door to two preschool-level sections and one section each for elementary school units one and two. Its first Brother-Director was Brother Alphonsus Bloemen FSC who first came to teach in De La Salle College in Manila in 1940. On August 24, 1960, La Salle Green Hills, Inc. was registered as non-stock, non-profit corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In August 1964, the high school was established. In 1968, when the De La Salle High School – Manila was made defunct, graduates of the De La Salle Grade School were transferred to the La Salle Green Hills High School, making La Salle Green Hills the high school of De La Salle University – Manila, until the establishment of the co-educational De La Salle-Santiago Zobel School in 1978. The De La Salle Grade School – Manila was phased-out in 1984, after which its grade school graduates were given an option to study either at LSGH (for northern and central Metro Manila residents) or at De La Salle Zobel in Ayala Alabang Village (for southern Metro Manila residents).\n\nLa Salle Green Hills was first accredited by the Philippine Accrediting Association of Schools, Colleges and Universities or PAASCU in 1971 and was given a three-year accrediting grant. La Salle Green Hills received three-year accreditations again in 1974 and 1977. After which, La Salle Green Hills was given a better five-year grant in 1982 and 1987 after two accrediting visits. Accrediting visits in 1991 and 1998 were given seven-year accreditations making it the first and only high school in the Philippines to be granted two seven-year accreditations. After the seven-year accrediting grant that was given to La Salle Green Hills in 1998, the school was surveyed on September 2005 and was granted a five-year accreditation. In June 2008, the La Salle Green Hills Grade School was granted a\n\nLevel III accreditation by PAASCU, making it the first and only school in the Philippines certified as such. And in late 2008, the High School was granted Level III accreditation from the Federation of Accrediting Agencies of the Philippines, the highest accreditation given to any basic education institution in the Philippines.\n\nOn June 8, 2009, La Salle Green Hills celebrated its golden jubilee, and in 2011 celebrated together with the rest of the De La Salle schools in the Philippines the centennial celebration of the De La Salle Brothers in the Philippines.\n\nThe school announced in May 2020, that it will begin admitting female students starting the next academic year.\n\nThe La Salle Green Hills Grade School (LSGH-GS) is a Catholic elementary school for boys. It offers education for students from the kindergarten level to the seventh grade. Its facilities and classrooms are located within the St. Joseph the Worker Building (Kindergarten and Grade 1), St. Brother Miguel Febres Cordero FSC building (Grade 2 to Grade 5), and the St. La Salle building (Grade 6). The Grade School shares the athletic facilities with the High School. Its principal is Mr. Jose Ramelle Javier. The Grade School has the distinction of being the first grade school in the country to receive a Level III accreditation from the PAASCU.\n\nThe curriculum for the LSGH-GS focuses on basic elementary education, in which Language(English), Filipino, Christian Living, Science, Art, Music, Computer, and Arithmetic are introduced in Kindergarten 1 and 2. Language Arts, Science, Filipino, Music, Christian Living, Reading, Mathematics, Araling Panlipunan (Grade 2–6). Physical Education is taught in Grades 1–6. Students from Grade 5 and 6 (GS) get to pick their Friday Club from a list of multiple clubs.\n\nThe La Salle Green Hills High School (LSGH-HS) is a Catholic secondary school that is divided into the Junior High School (Grades 7-10) and the Senior High School (Grades 11 and 12). Its Junior High School is located within the St. Brother Mutien Marie FSC building aside from the Arts and Technology classrooms which are located at the St. Benilde Gym's mezzanine, and the top floors of the St. Joseph the Worker building and Central House. Its Senior High School is located within the St. Brother Arnold Reche FSC and also houses related facilities. Its principal is Mrs. Donna B. Ines. Previously an exclusive all-boys' school (from Nursery up until Grade 12), its Senior High School opened to female students as of May 12, 2020. \n\nThe curriculum of the LSGH-HS focuses mainly on college preparatory education in which English (Grammar, Literature, Rhetoric and Reading), Mathematics, Science, Social Science, Christian Living, and Filipino make up the academic subjects while Arts and Technology (includes Electronics, Basic Accounting, Music, Drafting, Integrated Arts, Culinary Arts and Automotive), Computer, and Physical Education and Health, and Robotics make up the co-curricular subjects which are all taught from Grade 7 to Grade 10. The majority of graduates from the LSGH-HS move on to study college at De La Salle University Manila, De La Salle-College of Saint Benilde also in Manila, University of the Philippines, University of Santo Tomas, and Ateneo de Manila University.\n\nThe school is situated on a six-hectare campus fronting Ortigas Avenue, across from Wack-Wack Village and golf course.\n\nProbably the most well-known building on the school grounds, construction of the dome-shaped structure began in 1967. Mr. Gines Rivera is the building's architect. It houses the main basketball courts on the second floor and the cafeteria on the ground floor. The mezzanine houses most of the Computer and Arts & Technology, Drafting and Culinary Arts classrooms of the La Salle Green Hills High School. Aside from sports, the main gym area is also used for graduations, community masses, concerts, and other events. Since 1986, it has been used as the venue for the presidential election ballot counting by NAMFREL. \n\n\nThe St. La Salle Building houses the Grade 6, some computer labs and many special classrooms, the Grades 2, 5 and 6 art and music rooms, the annex library, the accounting office, the Presidents' Office and the other canteen (Zaide).\n\nThe 3rd floor of the St. La Salle Building houses one of the four campuses of the De La Salle University Manila Ramon V. del Rosario Sr. Graduate School of Business, of which LSGH is designated as the \"Ortigas Campus\".\n\nThe Brother Arnold Reche FSC Building houses the Senior High School (Grades 11 and 12) Department's classrooms. It also houses the Quadrangle 1, which is the school's garden. It has a library, chapel, clinic, the Senior High School guidance counselor's offices, the Senior High School science lab, the Senior High School's prefect offices and a staircase leading to the Father Martinez Activity Center, or FMAC.\n\nThe building is located behind the St. La Salle Main Building, and houses the Grades 2–5, some of the Grade 6 classrooms and the Grade School Principal's office. It houses two music rooms, two activity rooms, a rehearsal room, and the LC3 Prefect's office. The basement floor of the building accommodates the SPDO, SC, The Archives, the conference room, and the Table Tennis courts. In the middle of it is called the Quadrangle 2.\n\nThe Saint Mutien Marie Building, or the High School Building, houses the Junior High School Department (Grades 7-10), from classrooms to the administration offices. The classrooms are organized with each year level occupying one level starting with the 7th on the second floor. The ground floor includes the HS library, administrative offices, the HS chapel, and the Maria Pilapil Hall. \n\n\nThe St. Joseph the Worker Building houses the students and faculty of the Kindergarten department, and is divided into the Kinder 1 building and the Grade 1 building. The Kindergarten playground is also situated here.\n\n\nThis was the first building in 1959. It was here that the first classes of LSGH were held. Today, it is the residence of the FSC Brothers of LSGH, this is more commonly known to the students as the \"Brothers' House.\" The Central House also contains the offices of De La Salle Philippines. It is usually off-limits to all students except for the HS Science Laboratories on the fourth floor. \n\nThe Brother Rafael S. Donato FSC Center for the Performing Arts (Br. Donato Center) is the home of both the grade school and high school theater arts departments of La Salle Green Hills. The former St. Joseph's Auditorium (SJA) underwent a complete renovation in 2004 and was renamed as the St. Joseph's Theater (SJT to the students). It was then dedicated on March 2007 to Brother Rafael Donato FSC, who died in Bagac, Bataan, on November 2, 2006, 2 weeks after his 50th anniversary as a De La Salle Brother. It has orchestra and balcony sections which can accommodate 628 persons and its newly installed lighting and sound systems make it the best-equipped medium-sized performing arts venue within the San Juan and Mandaluyong–Ortigas area.\n\nThis has also been the venue of productions by the Grade School's Junior Actors' Guild and the High School's Cue Drama Club. Cue Drama stages productions every year.\n\nThe St. Benilde Gymnasium, although called a gym, does not house an actual gym (unlike the one in the Father Martinez Activity Center, or FMAC), but houses basketball games and practices.\n\n\nThe other gym is the Father Martinez Activity Center (FMAC). It is named after LSGH's rector in the late 1990s. It has 4 basketball courts, one full court made of Taraflex and the other three are convertible to volleyball/badminton/table tennis courts, the Weights room, Taekwondo room, and a wall climbing facility.\n\n\nLa Salle Green Hills also has a full-sized football field, named after Brother Gilbert Cotter FSC, an American De La Salle Brother who used to handle LSGH and was closely tied to football. This is where football matches are held (mostly by the school's varsity team) as well as field demonstrations in school festivities.\n\n\nThe Enrique Razon Activity Center (ERAC) is situated at the upper field. It is designed to suit a wide range of sports activities (e.g., basketball, volleyball, tennis, etc.) and other co-curricular activities/assemblies.\n\nOther facilities situated in the Upper Field include the Track Oval, Baseball Diamond, Lawn Tennis Court, Swimming pool, Wall climbing facility, Table Tennis room and a Golf Driving Cage.\n\n\nThe Main Library of LSGH is located in the quadrangle area located at the Br. Arnold Reche Building. It has the Filipiniana section, Easy Reading, Cyberquest, Reference and Fictional and Non-Fictional sections. Its facilities include internet and printing.\n\nThe Annex Library is located in the St. La Salle Building Annex and is used mainly by Grade 4–6 and is off-limits to the lower grades (Grade 2 and 3). It has most of the services of the Main Library but no longer includes the Easy Reading Section.\n\nThe High School library is located on the ground floor of the High School Building and is used only by the High School. It has the same services as the Annex Library but also includes the Leisure Reading area where comics and digests can be found. It is the biggest library in the campus. The GHArchives (Green Hills Archives) and the HS Audio – Visual Center, and ANHS collection are also housed in this library.\n\nSince La Salle Green Hills is a school dedicated to the formation of Christian gentlemen, the school has provided facilities for the spiritual activities and development of its students.\n\nLa Salle Green Hills has three chapels, the St. La Salle Chapel, the High School Chapel, and the Chapel of the Divine Child.\n\nThe Chapel of the Divine Child (formerly called the National Shrine of the Divine Child or NSDC), or the CDC is the school's main chapel. Wakes (for deceased faculty, alumni, brothers, etc.) are often held here. The chapel also serves Sunday masses. This is also where the Grade 3 classes have their First Holy Communion every December–February. The CDC is the place where ZTE scandal witness Jun Lozada held a press conference concerning the scandal.\n\nLarge community gatherings such as the community mass are held at the gym.\n\nThe Retreat House is situated behind the Kinder One building. It can house two simultaneous class recollections. The two-story building has identical facilities on both floors: Conference room which can be converted to a chapel, dining hall, kitchen, dormitory, showers, and lavatories. The dormitories are furnished with bunk beds which can accommodate a class of about 55 (full) and is air-conditioned.\n\nLSGH holds plays, concerts and activity days in each grade level (where students recite short stories and poems, and give speeches in English and Filipino). Most of these events are held at the now Bro. Rafael Donato Center for the Performing Arts, or in the old St. Joseph's Auditorium (the name of the Bro. Donato Center before renovation).\n\nLa Salle Green Hills has clubs for those who want to partake in plays, the Junior Actor's Guild (JAG) in the Grade School and the Cue Drama Club in High School. These clubs hold about 3 plays per year and are held in the Bro. Donato Center.\n\nThe school is also home to The Kundirana, one of the most notable and distinct performing groups in The Philippines, which is a music ministry composed of about 8–15 high school students in their junior or senior year. The Kundirana has performed several renowned concerts since its establishment in the 1970s. Being winners of a few Aliw Awards throughout their time, The Kundirana also holds the distinction of being the most famous high school singing group in the Philippines. Notable alumni include award-winning Filipino artists such as Gary Valenciano, Ogie Alcasid, Randy Santiago, Monet Silvestre, Rannie Raymundo, Dingdong Avanzado, Dingdong Eduque, Montet Acoymo, Juan Miguel Salvador, Carlo Orosa, Vince Alaras, Von de Guzman and Gian Magdangal of Philippine Idol, Louie Ocampo, Mel Villena, Mon Faustino, Tats Faustino, Rowell Santiago, Manuel Lahoz, Mikoy Morales, Chito Genito, Manny Pagsuyuin (ex-Campus Radio WLS-FM DJ Jimmy Jam now with Retro 105.9 DCG-FM), Joel Salud, Dennis Buenaventura, Dennis Barot and the notable singing groups of the \"TUX\" and \"Men and Music\". They are La Salle's ambassadors of goodwill, not only for representing LSGH and the whole De La Salle – Philippines, but also the country during their numerous concert tours abroad.\n\nThe group performs several concerts aiming to raise funds to contribute to various Philippine charities such as the bahay pag-asa, and other charities spearheaded by the Lasallian brothers.\n\nThe group celebrated their 40th anniversary November 2011 with a grand reunion concert held at CCP led by Ogie Alcasid entitled: KUNDIRANA KWARENTA NA: the men, the music, the ministry featuring several alumni and the then current batch, Kundirana 2012.\n\nAmong the performing arts clubs of LSGH, possibly one of the most popular is the LSGH Airforce, the school's representatives for the field of Streetdance. Separated from the LSGH Dance Club (now, Junior Airforce) (which is more for in-school dance lovers), Airforce has been in existence for more than six years. Existing on de facto recognition, Airforce has risen in prominence in numerous dance competitions. They consist of hand-picked students from the LSGH High School, selected through tryouts.\nThey reached and placed first in the finals of the Skechers Streetdance Battle Year 6 and Year 8, possibly the most famous dance competition in the Philippines. In recent years, Airforce has won in various competitions such as, securing the four-peat championship in 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 respectively, in the National Dance Championship \"Senior Mixed Hip Hop Division\", becoming the first team to do so. LSGH Airforce celebrated their 10-year anniversary in 2018. Most of the alumni have continued and strived in different college teams and international teams, making Airforce one of the most prominent high school teams in the Philippines.\n\nThe La Salle Green Hills varsity team is named the La Salle Greenies. The name is also used when representing the De La Salle-College of Saint Benilde Blazers in the NCAA as their junior counterpart, contrary to popular perception that they are \"Junior Blazers\". They were also the juniors representative of the De La Salle Green Archers in the NCAA from 1968 to 1981. La Salle Green Hills' former varsity name were the La Salle Green Hills Rangers. There are several claims as to where the moniker was taken from.\n\nIn the NCAA, the Greenies have won 12 Juniors General Championships, eight with DLSU and four with DLS-CSB.\n\nLa Salle Green Hills due to its ties with the De La Salle-College of Saint Benilde in the NCAA, uses the cheers of Benilde in the NCAA, but since LSGH being a La Salle school altogether, uses the cheers of De La Salle University outside the NCAA.\n\nIn the 1980s, the LSGH-HS dissolved its Debate and Argumentation elective. Hence, there came increasing demand for students interested in the field. Therefore, the school established the \"Debate Club\" and the \"Forensics Guild\". The two organizations were independent from each other and used different rooms for training. The \"Forensics Guild\" used the then Saint Joseph's Auditorium while the \"Debate Club\" used the High School's Maria Pilapil Hall. Both competed in various competitions in Metro Manila, sometimes meeting each other. Most prominent during this period was the Volvo Voice of Democracy. (This was the stage where LSGH alumnus, Hilarion \"Ronnie\" Henares III, won the prestigious competition in 1967 and where another alumnus, Christian Earl Castañeda, was second runner-up in 2009) However, since SY 2008–2009, LSGH's Student Affairs Central Body took over participation in this contest.\n\nAfter 2004, the school felt a need to merge both organizations. This was because the members were at a decline and they both had the same objectives and purpose. So they established \"Club Rhetorique\". At the same time they created the Rhetoric elective for sophomore students. Feeling the need for a more competitive debate institution, LSGH-HS's English Department and students from De La Salle-College of Saint Benilde established the \"La Salle Debate Team\" (LSDT) in the SY 2005–2006. The team has autonomy from rules of normal clubs and societies in LSGH and is officially under the Principal's Office, rather than under the Student Activities Coordinator.\n\nThe LSDT trained under members of the DLS-CSB debate society from 2005 to 2007 and then under members of the De La Salle University debate society from 2008 to today. The LSDT has gone on to be Quarter-finalists at the 2008 National Asians High School Debate Championship won the Ana Alano Cup at the 2008 and 2012 Philippine Schools Debate Championship and semi finalist in the same tournament in 2009 and 2010, and quarter-finalist in 2011 as well as advanced to the semi finals of the Asian Schools Debate Championship\n\nThe LSGH Adult Night High School (ANHS) was established by the Christian Brothers, in the mid 1970s to provide free, quality Lasallian education to the marginalized, the academic scholarships were not only provided for financially challenged students, but also gave assistance to several physically disabled scholars through the LSGH Deaf Learners Program. The program teaches its scholars various vocational courses that would provide skills that empowered them to earn a source of livelihood for themselves. Most of the LSGH-ANHS scholars are post-teen years working students aged from 19 to 65 years who have a genuine desire to continue and finish their high school education and eventually pursue a college education later on in a Lasallian college. Their classes are held at the High School Building, from 5:00 to 9:00 p.m. after the regular students classes.\n\nThe LSGH shield is quartered by the Holy Cross of Jesus. On the upper left, the three broken chevrons are as in the coat of arms of the De La Salle family representing the name of the school La Salle. The upper right contains the five-point Signum Fidei Star with rays, the Sign of Faith, from the 350 year old seal of the Brothers of the Christian Schools who govern the school. The lower left portion contains a section of the Philippine flag signifying loyalty to the country. The lower right, with its hill represented in green is for Green Hills, and the monument to signify Rizal Province, localizes the location of the school.\n\nThe shield is topped with the helmet and breastplate. The salvation of souls is the uppermost aim of the school, hence the \"Helmet of Salvation\" and the \"Breastplate of Integrity\" signify the primary objective.\nLSGH's motto – \"\"To God, through faith, virtue and culture\"\" further emphasizes that the school offers all to the greater honor and glory of God. In green and white in classical design, the name and place of the school surround the shield.\n\nSee More: http://www.lsgh.edu.ph/project-duo/\n\n"}
{"id": "2312065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312065", "title": "Rissegg", "text": "Rissegg\n\nRissegg is a part of the city of Biberach/Riß and a municipality in the district of Biberach, Baden-Württemberg, Germany. Rissegg is a village of about 2,000 inhabitants and was founded in the 9th or 10th century. There is a Free Catholic school with about 187 students.\n"}
{"id": "2312069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312069", "title": "Hong Kong Certificate of Identity", "text": "Hong Kong Certificate of Identity\n\nThe Hong Kong Certificate of Identity (CI) was a formal travel document and passport, issued by the Hong Kong Government's Immigration Department until 30 June 1997 (See transfer of the sovereignty of Hong Kong). It is no longer possible to possess a valid CI as a travel document, as all CIs have expired by 30 June 2007, though most CI holders should be eligible to hold the HKSAR Passport.\n\nCertificates of Identity were issued to Hong Kong permanent residents who did not hold and could not obtain any valid travel documents for overseas travel. For example, permanent residents who were citizens of People's Republic of China (PRC) could obtain neither their Chinese passports unless they held hukou registration in Mainland China, nor their British passports unless they naturalized as British citizens or British Dependent Territories citizens tied in Hong Kong. Such persons could be issued CI in lieu of the national passport. CI were not used to enter the PRC (Mainland China) or Portuguese Macau, and other means of travel documents and/or entry permits were required.\n\nNormally, CI were valid for 10 years.\n\nSince establishment of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on 1 July 1997, no more CI were issued. Those already issued remained valid for travel until expiry (which may pass beyond 30 June 1997; as CIs were valid for a maximum of 10 years), none of which past 30 June 2007. CI holders who are PRC citizens are now eligible for Hong Kong passport.\n\nMost (but not all) former CI holders were solely People's Republic of China (PRC) citizens. Many of them were immigrants from mainland China who had acquired the right of abode in Hong Kong. They did not co-hold any type of British nationality (See British nationality law and Hong Kong for details pertaining to various kinds of British nationalities). Before the handover, they were not eligible for any kinds of PRC passports. The PRC only issued Home Return Permit for them to enter mainland China only. If they did not choose to acquire British nationality through naturalisation, they could apply for the CI as a travel document from the colonial Hong Kong Government.\n\nTravel abroad was very difficult for CI holders, because CI was not a proof of nationality, in contrast with passport, thus rendering CI holders practically \"stateless\", even when most of them were Chinese nationals.\n\nAfter the handover, all Hong Kong permanent residents with PRC Citizenship are eligible to apply for a Hong Kong SAR passport.\n\nOn 1 July 1987, the concept of \"right of abode\" was introduced in Hong Kong legislation. A modified Hong Kong Certificate of Identity was introduced to ensure that Certificates of Identity would be acceptable for the purpose of international travel both before and after the handover of Hong Kong. These documents contain an endorsement showing that “the holder has the right of abode in Hong Kong”.\n\nTo ensure Certificate of Identity will be acceptable for the purpose of \ninternational travel and for the return to HK after 30 June 1997, \nthe British and the Chinese Government have agreed that the Certificate of Identity contain the following endorsement:\n\nCountries that allowed Hong Kong Certificate of Identity holders to visit without visas:\n\n\nAfter the HKSAR was established, a number of countries have ceased to accept CI's at different times. Those not yet eligible for HKSAR passports would recourse to the Document of Identity.\n\nHowever it is no longer possible to possess a valid CI as a travel document, because all CIs have expired by 30 June 2007.\n\nThe following statements were printed in both English and traditional Chinese.\n\n1. This Certificate of Identity remains property of the Hong Kong government. It will normally be cancelled if the holder obtains a national passport or other travel document.\n\n2. Certificates of identity are normally valid for ten years from date of issue, but may be made valid for shorter periods in certain circumstances.\n\n3. The holder may return to Hong Kong without visa, provided the Certificate is valid.\n\n4. The holder is advised to obtain visas for any country he wishes to visit or pass through.\n\n5. Should the holder take up residence in a country or territory outside Hong Kong application should be made\nto the competent authorities of this country of residence for a new travel document.\n\n6. The issue of this certificate does not confer a right on the holder to the protection of British diplomatic or consular representatives abroad, nor does it exempt the holder from the provisions of the Hong Kong Immigration Ordinance Chapter 115.\n\n7. The Certificate is a valuable document and should not be altered in any way or allowed to pass into the possession of an unauthorised person. If lost or destroyed, a report should immediately be made to the issuing office or to the nearest British Consulate, High Commission or Police Office, as well as to the local police.\n\nThese notes apply to the following version of the Certificate of Identity:\nI.D. 67 (Revised) in 1980.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312071", "title": "David Edward Jackson", "text": "David Edward Jackson\n\nDavid Edward Jackson (1788 – December 24, 1837) was an American pioneer, trapper, fur trader, and explorer. Born in what is now West Virginia, as a married man he moved with his family to Ste. Genevieve, Missouri, where in 1822 he became a clerk for the William Ashley and Andrew Henry fur trade partnership, based in St. Louis, Missouri joining a major expedition to the upper Missouri River.\n\nIn 1826 Jackson became a partner in the company. He and his partners sold out in 1830, as the fur trade was declining. Jackson became involved in other expeditions, including to Santa Fe (in present-day New Mexico) and California, both under Mexican control since it had achieved independence from Spain in 1821.\n\nHaving suffered from ill health, Jackson returned to St. Louis and tried to get his affairs in order. He traveled in 1837 to Paris, Tennessee, for business related to local investments. He contracted typhoid fever and died there several months later.\n\nDavid Edward Jackson was the grandson of John Jackson (1715 or 1719 – 1801) and Elizabeth Cummins (also known as Elizabeth Comings and Elizabeth Needles) (1723–1828). John Jackson was a Protestant (Ulster-Scottish) from Coleraine, County Londonderry, Ireland. While living in London, England, he was convicted of the capital crime of larceny for stealing £170; the judge at the Old Bailey sentenced him to seven years of indentured servitude in the British colonies of North America. Elizabeth, a strong, blonde woman over tall, born in London, was also convicted of larceny in an unrelated case for stealing 19 pieces of silver, jewelry, and fine lace, and received a similar sentence. They both were transported on the prison ship \"Litchfield\", which departed London in May 1749 with 150 convicts. John and Elizabeth met on board and had declared their love in the weeks before the ship arrived at Annapolis, Maryland. Although they were sent to different locations in Maryland for their indentures, the couple married in July 1755.\n\nThe family migrated west across the Blue Ridge Mountains to settle near Moorefield, Virginia (now West Virginia) in 1758. In 1770, they moved farther west to the Tygart Valley. They began to acquire large parcels of virgin farming land near the present-day town of Buckhannon, including 3,000 acres (12 km²) in Elizabeth's name. John and his two teenage sons were early recruits for the American Revolutionary War, fighting in the Battle of Kings Mountain on October 7, 1780. John finished the war as captain and served as a lieutenant of the Virginia militia after 1787. While the men were in the Army, Elizabeth converted their home to a haven, \"Jackson's Fort,\" for refugees from Indian attacks.\n\nJohn and Elizabeth had eight children. Their second son was Edward Jackson (March 1, 1759 – December 25, 1828); Edward and his wife had three boys and three girls; the second boy being David. Their third son was Jonathan Jackson, father of Thomas, known as Stonewall Jackson when he served as a general in the Civil War.\n\nDavid Edward Jackson was born in Randolph County in the Shenandoah Mountains of what was then part of Virginia and is now in West Virginia. When he was eight, his mother died. His father remarried three years later. In 1801, when he was 13, his family moved west, settling near Weston, West Virginia Lewis County, on the Allegheny Plateau. Jackson's father and stepmother had nine more children.\n\nJackson married and moved to Ste. Genevieve, Missouri, with his wife and four children in the early 1820s, planning to engage in farming. The town had been founded by French colonists in the late 18th century. His older brother, George, had preceded him to the area and owned a sawmill.\n\nInstead of farming, Jackson responded to William Ashley's advertisement looking to employ men for his and Andrew Henry's new fur trade venture. Jackson was probably hired as a clerk. In the spring of 1822, Jackson headed up the Missouri River with Henry and 150 other men in a fur trade expedition to Native American tribes on the upper river. A few weeks later, Ashley sent more men, including Jedediah Smith on a boat called the \"Enterprize\". It sank and left the men stranded in the wilderness for several weeks.\n\nAshley himself brought up an additional 46 men on a replacement boat, and they and the stranded group finally reached Fort Henry. It had been built over the summer by the first group of 150 men. \n\nIt is not known if Jackson returned to St. Louis with Ashley that fall, or traveled with Jedediah Smith in the spring of 1823. At that time, Major Henry ordered Smith and some other men to go down the Missouri to Grand River in order to meet Ashley and buy horses from the Arikara, but warning him of the Native Americans' hostility to whites. They had recently had a skirmish with men from the Missouri Fur Company. Ashley, who was bringing supplies as well as 70 new men up the river by boat, met Smith at the Arikara village on May 30. They negotiated a trade for several horses and 200 buffalo robes. They planned to leave as soon as possible to avert trouble, but weather delayed them. An incident precipitated an Arikara attack on the Ashley party. Forty Ashley men were caught in a vulnerable position, and 12 were killed.\n\nAshley and the rest of the surviving party traveled by boat downriver, ultimately enlisting aid from Colonel Henry Leavenworth, Commander of Fort Atkinson. In August, Leavenworth sent a force of 250 military men, 80 Ashley-Henry men, 60 men of the Missouri Fur Company, and a number of Lakota Sioux warriors, enemies of the Arikara. They intended to subdue and punish the Arikara. After a botched campaign, Leavenworth negotiated a peace treaty.\n\nEither David Jackson or his brother George had been appointed commander of one of the two squads of the Ashley-Henry men in this military expedition.\n\nLittle is known about Jackson's movements until just after the 1826 Rocky Mountain Rendezvous, a major gathering of trappers and traders. It is presumed he was at the first, 1825 rendezvous held on Henry's Fork of the Green River, but he may not have been at the one held in 1826 at Bear River in Cache Valley. Soon after the rendezvous, Ashley, along with his party taking back the furs, traveled with Smith and William Sublette to near present-day Georgetown, Idaho. There, Jackson and the other men bought out Ashley's share of the Ashley-Smith partnership.\n\nAs a partner, Jackson took on the role of field manager, possibly because of his similar role when working for Ashley. That fall, Jackson, Sublette, and Robert Campbell trapped along the Snake River system, then moved up into the upper Missouri and over the Great Divide to the headwaters of the Columbia River.)\n\nJackson and his party traveled south to Cache Valley, where they spent the rest of the 1826-1827 winter. He was at the 1827 rendezvous at Bear Lake, then returned to St. Louis, Missouri, which had become a center of fur trade, with Sublette for a short time.\n\nJackson returned to the fur country for the 1828 rendezvous, after which he traveled with a party to the Flathead Lake, Montana region, where they wintered. The next spring, Smith found him along the Flathead River. The two partners and their men trapped down to Pierre's Hole, where they joined Sublette. The rendezvous that year (1829), was held near present-day Lander, Wyoming. Jackson is thought to have returned afterward to the upper Snake River region in northwest Wyoming, then traveled east to spend the winter with Smith and Sublette along the Wind and Powder rivers. Jackson returned to the upper Snake in the spring of 1830, then returned to the Wind River Valley for the annual rendezvous.\n\nAt the rendezvous, Smith, Jackson and Sublette sold out their interests in the fur trade to a group of men who called the firm the Rocky Mountain Fur Company. The three partners returned to St. Louis, having made a tidy profit in their enterprise.\n\nBy early 1831, Jackson was in southeast Missouri's lead belt, attending to his personal affairs and those of his brother George, who died on March 26, 1831. On April 7, he returned to St. Louis to meet with his partners for a trade trip to Santa Fe, which was controlled by the Spanish. The caravan of wagons left St. Louis on April 10, 1831, traveling down the Santa Fe Trail. To save time, the group decided to take the \"Cimarron cutoff,\" at the risk of not finding water for two days. Smith went missing while looking for water, but the caravan continued on, hoping he would find them.\n\nUpon reaching Santa Fe on July 4, 1831, the members of the trading party discovered a Mexican merchant at the Santa Fe market offering several of Smith's personal belongings for sale. When questioned about the items, the merchant indicated that he had acquired them from a band of Comanche hunters. Smith had encountered and been killed by a group of Comanche. His death resulted in Jackson and Sublette reorganizing their partnership.\n\nWhile in Santa Fe, Jackson partnered with David Waldo, to journey to California to sell the merchandise he had transported from Missouri. Waldo convinced him of the viability of traveling to California to purchase mules, and to drive them back to Missouri to sell, to yield more profit. Jackson and Sublette traveled to Taos where Jackson met Ewing Young, who had traveled between Santa Fe and California the previous year. He persuaded Jackson that his knowledge of the area would be indispensable to Jackson and Waldo in the mule venture. It was decided Jackson would take a group of men directly to California, and travel through the area buying mules. Young and his group of men would trap along the way to California, and meet up with Jackson in time to drive the mules back to Santa Fe. Jackson left for Santa Fe on August 25, 1831.\n\nOn September 6, Jackson's group left Santa Fe. Members of the group included, Jackson and his slave, Jim; Jedediah Smith's younger brother Peter, Jonathan Trumbull Warner, Samuel Parkman, and possibly David's brother William Waldo; Moses Carson, brother of Kit; and four other men. Several weeks later, they reached Tucson, Arizona, and went on to the Gila River, which they followed to the Colorado River. They crossed the Colorado River and the Colorado Desert, reaching San Diego in early November.\n\nJackson traveled up the California coast as far north as the lower end of the San Francisco Bay. By the end of March, 1832, when he met with Young in Los Angeles, he had purchased only 600 mules and 100 horses rather than the more than 1,000 they had planned. In May, the two groups drove the animals to the Colorado River, reaching it at its floodstage in June. After 12 days, they had the animals swim across. Jackson's and Young's parties again split; Young to take $10,000 of Jackson/Waldo cash and property and return to California and continue trapping and buying mules to drive back later. Jackson took possession of the skins which Young had trapped to that point.\n\nDue to the summer heat, many of the mules died on the way back to Santa Fe, which the party reached in the first week of July. Jackson sold part of the herd of animals in Santa Fe. Ira Smith, another Jedediah Smith brother, had traveled to Santa Fe to meet Peter. Ira and Jackson headed back to St. Louis with the remaining animals.\n\nUpon his return to Missouri, the 44-year-old Jackson began to have health problems. He spent his remaining years trying to put his financial affairs in order. He had never heard from Ewing Young, after leaving him with the substantial amount of cash and property at the Colorado River, but was never healthy enough to return to California to try to collect payment. In January 1837, he finally was able to travel to Paris, Tennessee, to try to collect money on some investments he had made there. While there, Jackson contracted typhoid fever. He lingered for several months and died on December 24, 1837.\n\nEwing Young left California for Oregon in 1834. With the money and property secured from Jackson, he had capital for several ventures. In February 1841, Young died without any known heir and without a will. Probate court had to deal with his estate, which had many debtors and creditors among the settlers. Doctor Ira L. Babcock was selected as supreme judge with probate powers to deal with Young's estate. The activities that followed Young's death contributed to the creation of a provisional government in the Oregon Country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312076", "title": "Burmah Oil Co Ltd v Lord Advocate", "text": "Burmah Oil Co Ltd v Lord Advocate\n\nBurmah Oil Company Ltd v Lord Advocate [1965] AC 75, was a court case, raised in Scotland, and decided ultimately in the House of Lords. The case is an important decision in British constitutional law and had unusual legal repercussions at the time.\n\nThis case concerned the destruction of oil fields in Burma by British forces in 1942, during the Second World War. The destruction was ordered in order to prevent the installations from falling into the hands of the advancing Imperial Japanese Army. It affected the Burmah Oil Company which brought an action against the UK government, represented by the Lord Advocate.\n\nIn the Outer House of the Court of Session, Lord Kilbrandon found in favour of Burmah Oil. The Crown appealed, and the First Division of the Inner House of the Court of Session unanimously reversed the decision below. Burmah Oil then appealed to the House of Lords.\n\nThe House of Lords held by a 3–2 majority that although the damage was lawful, it was the equivalent of requisitioning the property. Any act of requisition was done for the good of the public, at the expense of the individual proprietor, and for that reason, the proprietor should be compensated from public funds. Viscount Radcliffe and Lord Hodson dissented.\n\nIn the end, the result was frustrated by the passing of a retroactive Act of Parliament, the War Damage Act 1965, which retroactively exempts the Crown from liability in respect of damage to, or destruction of, property caused by acts lawfully done by the Crown during, or in contemplation of the outbreak of, a war in which it is engaged.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312080", "title": "ID; Peace B", "text": "ID; Peace B\n\nID; Peace B is the debut Korean-language studio album by South Korean singer BoA, released on August 25, 2000 by SM Entertainment. It peaked at #10 in the Korean album chart. \"ID; Peace B\" was released in Japan, two months after her Korean debut. It reached #30 in Oricon chart. \"ID; Peace B\" sold 166,452 copies nationwide, making it the fifty-ninth best-selling album of 2000 in South Korea.\n"}
{"id": "2312090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312090", "title": "Egil Østenstad", "text": "Egil Østenstad\n\nEgil Johan Østenstad (; born 2 January 1972) is a Norwegian former professional footballer whi played as a forward. He started and ended his career at Viking, where he was director of football after his retirement. His playing career also included spells at Southampton and Blackburn, among others.\n\nBorn in Haugesund, Østenstad started his career with local club Torvastad IL. He arrived at Viking in 1990, and helped the club to win the Norwegian Premier League title in 1991, when he featured in 10 out of the 22 league games. He played a total of 280 games for the club, scoring 88 goals, before moving to Southampton in the FA Premier League in October 1996.\n\nØstenstad was signed by manager Graeme Souness for £800,000 on 3 October 1996 and made his debut at Coventry City on 13 October 1996. In only his third game for the Saints he opened his goal-scoring account in spectacular fashion with a hat-trick in the 6–3 win against Manchester United on 26 October 1996. Subsequently, the Dubious Goals Committee credited his third goal to an own goal by Phil Neville, who touched the ball last in a vain attempt to prevent it from crossing the goal-line, although Østenstad retained the match ball.\n\nIn his first season at The Dell he led the line well linking up superbly with Matthew Le Tissier and Eyal Berkovic scoring nine goals from 30 league appearances and was voted the Fans' player of the season. During the 1997 close season, Østenstad was a transfer target for Liverpool and Newcastle United, but Østenstad remained at The Dell as neither club was willing to match Southampton's £7 million asking price.\n\nBy the start of the following season, Souness had departed to be replaced by Dave Jones from Stockport County. Unfortunately, Eyal Berkovic also departed thus breaking up what had looked like becoming a successful partnership. Østenstad was now paired with Kevin Davies in attack but failed to score until a substitute appearance against West Ham United on 4 October 1997. Following the signing of David Hirst he was dropped from the team, making only the occasional substitute appearance. After coming off the bench to score in a 3–2 victory over Liverpool on 7 February 1998, he started the remaining 13 league games, scoring eight goals as the Saints finished the 1997–98 season in 11th place.\n\nØstenstad was part of the Norway squad for the 1998 World Cup held in France, but was given little chance to make any impact.\n\nIn the 1998 close season, Kevin Davies departed for Blackburn Rovers, with James Beattie joining the Saints as part of the deal. Østenstad was now paired up front with veteran striker Mark Hughes. The 1998–99 season saw Saints struggle to score goals and they were never out of the relegation zone until the last two weeks of the season. Despite only scoring seven goals, Østenstad was Saints top goal-scorer for the season (jointly with Matthew Le Tissier), but by the end of the season he had lost his starting place in the team to Marians Pahars.\n\nØstenstad started the 1999–00 season brightly, scoring the only goal at Coventry City in the opening game on 7 August 1999. 11 days later, Dave Jones decided to move him on and arranged an exchange deal with Blackburn Rovers with Kevin Davies returning to The Dell. This move saw him drop down a division, as Rovers had just been relegated to Division One.\n\nIn his three years at the Saints, Østenstad scored 28 goals in 96 league appearances, plus a further five goals in 13 cup games. He was always a popular figure, but sometimes infuriated fans by seeming to miss as many \"easy\" goals as he scored difficult ones.\n\nDespite being re-united with manager Graeme Souness and dropping down a division, Østenstad struggled to make an impact at Ewood Park. He started well, scoring a brace in his second game, in a 2–0 victory at Norwich City on 28 August 1999 and completed the 1999–00 season with eight league goals from 28 appearances, playing alongside Ashley Ward and Lee Carsley.\n\nThe goals then started to dry up and the following season he only made 13 appearances for Blackburn with three goals. By now, Blackburn were relying on goals from Matt Jansen and David Dunn to see them to promotion. He spent the end of the 2000–01 season on loan at Manchester City (where he made four appearances with no goals).\n\nIn the 2001–02 season Østenstad only made four appearances in the Premier League. Rovers won the 2001–02 Football League Cup and despite being left out of the squad for the final, Østenstad did appear in some of the earlier rounds. In the following season, he appeared more regularly and, despite only one league goal in 17 appearances, he did score in a UEFA Cup game against CSKA Sofia.\n\nIn his four seasons at Blackburn, he made a total of 62 league appearances scoring 12 goals.\n\nØstenstad signed for Rangers on a free transfer by Alex McLeish in the summer of 2003. However, he made next to no impact during a very unproductive spell and wound up having his contract terminated before the end of the season. His only two goals at Rangers came in the League Cup in games against Forfar Athletic and St Johnstone.\n\nAfter his disappointing season at Rangers, he made a long-awaited return to Viking midway through the 2004 season.\n\nHe was an instant hit at his old club, scoring 3 goals in 9 games to help save the club from relegation. Although he continued to be a regular starter and a prolific goalscorer, Østenstad retired at the end of the 2005 season. An internet petition for him to stay on for another season collected close to 2500 signatures.\n\nØstenstad made his debut for the Norwegian national team in 1993, coming on as a substitute to score twice against the Faroe Islands. He was capped 17 times between 1993 and 1999, mostly as a substitute, and he played in the 1998 World Cup in France. Østenstad scored 6 times for Norway, making him the most efficient marksman in the history of the Norwegian national team with one goal in every 94 minutes played. On 7 September 2005, more than six years after his last appearance, he made his comeback with the national team, starting in the 1–2 defeat to Scotland.\n\nØstenstad retired after the 2005 season. He was the director of football for Viking, until he stepped down on 8 June 2011. Østenstad was also the inspiration for the character \"Yngve\" in the book Mannen som elsket Yngve (The Man Who Loved Yngve) by Tore Renberg. The author and Østenstad went to the same high-school.\n\n - includes FA Cup, Scottish Cup and Norwegian Football Cup.\n"}
{"id": "2312093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312093", "title": "Test Ban Treaty", "text": "Test Ban Treaty\n\nThree test ban treaties aimed at prohibiting most nuclear weapons testing have been adopted:\n\n"}
{"id": "2312094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312094", "title": "Korea Democratic Party", "text": "Korea Democratic Party\n\nThe Korea Democratic Party (, \"Hanguk Minjudang\", KDP) was the leading opposition party in the first years of the First Republic of Korea. It existed from 1945 to 1949, when it merged with other opposition parties.\n\nThe KDP was established in 1945 by conservative nationalists headed by Song Jin-woo who were opposed to the People's Republic of Korea government set up by Lyuh Woon-hyung, instead backing the Provisional Government of the Republic of Korea. After Song was assassinated later in the year, he was succeeded as leader by Kim Seong-su. The Democratic Party won a third of the seats in the Interim Legislative Assembly elections in October 1946, and although it opposed the Assembly's existence due to some of its leadership being excluded, the party provided several of the key figures in the interim administration.\n\nHowever, its closeness to the American occupation force, together with its association with the landed gentry, meant that it never gained significant popular support. In the May 1948 elections the party won only 29 of the 200 seats, and although it supported Syngman Rhee in the July 1948 presidential elections, none of its members were included in his cabinet, a snub that led to the party joining the opposition.\n\nOn 10 February 1949 it merged with other groups in the legislature to form the Democratic Nationalist Party.\n"}
{"id": "2312097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312097", "title": "Hong Kong Special Administrative Region passport", "text": "Hong Kong Special Administrative Region passport\n\nThe Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Passport is a passport issued only to permanent residents of Hong Kong who also hold Chinese citizenship. In accordance with the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, since the transfer of sovereignty on 1 July 1997, the passport has been issued by the Immigration Department of the Government of Hong Kong under the authorisation of the Central People's Government of the People's Republic of China. As the official languages of Hong Kong are Chinese and English, the passport is printed bilingually in both Chinese (traditional characters) and English.\n\nIn English, the passport is sometimes referred to by its long-form name which appears on the cover (i.e. the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region People's Republic of China passport – a literal translation of the Chinese title ). Alternatively, the passport is commonly referred to as the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region passport () (the Hong Kong legislative ordinance concerning the passport is titled the \"Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Passports Ordinance (Chapter 539)\", the Hong Kong SAR passport, the HKSAR passport or the Hong Kong passport.\n\nThe authorities of the Republic of China (commonly known as \"Taiwan\") refer to the Hong Kong SAR passport as the \"Hong Kong passport\" because the ROC government tries to avoid references to the political status of Hong Kong as a SAR of the People's Republic of China. While the Brazilian Consulate-General in Hong Kong uses the term \"Hong Kong passport\" in reference to both the Hong Kong SAR and British National (Overseas) passports.\n\nHong Kong official travel documents prior to 1997 included the Hong Kong Certificate of Identity (CI), British Dependent Territories Citizen (BDTC), British National (Overseas) (BN(O)) and British Citizen (BC) passports. After 1997, BN(O) and BC passports are still valid but CIs and BDTC passports are no longer in use.\nThe issuing of Hong Kong SAR passports began on 1 July 1997, following the transfer of sovereignty over Hong Kong from the United Kingdom to the People's Republic of China. PRC citizens who have right of abode in the HKSAR and who hold Hong Kong permanent resident identity cards, whether or not they are holders of British National (Overseas) passport or Hong Kong Certificate of Identity or other travel documents, are eligible to apply for the Hong Kong SAR passport.\n\nNote that acquisition of British citizenship in the British Nationality Selection Scheme itself does not affect the eligibility for a HKSAR passport. Nor does the holding of any foreign passport itself affect the eligibility for a HKSAR passport, provided that one remains a PRC citizen.\n\nUnder Hong Kong Basic Law, the Government of Hong Kong is responsible for immigration control in the territory. The Hong Kong SAR passport is issued by the Immigration Department of Hong Kong under the authorisation of the Central People's Government (or the State Council). Its design is distinct from other types of People's Republic of China passports and the holders enjoy visa-free entry to more countries than other PRC passports.\nStarting from 1 January 2003, the second version of the passport was introduced with enhanced security features. The passport was machine readable, designed for immigration control points equipped with passport scanners. The passport size was . The second version of the Hong Kong SAR passport was available either as a 32-page ordinary-size passport or as a 48-page passport.\n\nThe cover of the passport was dark blue with wording and the national emblem of the People's Republic of China in gold. The word \"Passport\" in Chinese and English is found below the crest. Above are the words \"Hong Kong Special Administrative Region People's Republic of China\", also in Chinese and English. It is worth noting that the characters 中華人民共和國 (People's Republic of China) are bigger than the characters 香港特別行政區 (Hong Kong Special Administrative Region) on the passport cover. In English, however, \"HONG KONG\" is bigger than the phrase \"SPECIAL ADMINISTRATIVE REGION PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA\" for easy distinction by foreign immigration officials.\n\nThe passport note appeared on the second page in Chinese and English:\n\nThe passport's observations page on page 3 had the following:\n\n\nThe passport's explanatory notes were on page 1 in Chinese, and on page 2 in English. They consisted of the following words:\nPersonal data was recorded on the inner rear cover of the passport, which was covered with a security laminate. Details included were:\n\n\nThere was also a machine readable zone at the bottom of the identification page.\n\nChanges from the first version included optically variable ink used to print the letters \"HKSAR\" along the left hand side of the photo and the words \"IMMIGRATION DEPARTMENT, HONG KONG SPECIAL ADMINISTRATIVE REGION\" in the \"Issuing authority\" section of the personal data page.\n\nSince the issuing of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region passport commenced on 1 July 1997 following the transfer of sovereignty of Hong Kong, the passport has undergone three different changes, each with security enhancements. In February 2007, the first ePassport was introduced. The design conforms with the document design recommendations of the International Civil Aviation Organization. The new ePassport featured in the 2008 Stockholm Challenge Event and was a finalist for the Stockholm Challenge Award in the Public Administration category. The Hong Kong SAR ePassport design was praised on account of the \"multiple state-of-the-art technologies [which] are seamlessly integrated in the sophisticated Electronic Passport System (e-Passport System)\".[20] The cover of the new biometric passport remains essentially the same as that of previous versions, with the addition of the biometric passport logo at the bottom.[21]\n\nIn 2006, the Immigration Department announced that Unihub Limited (a PCCW subsidiary company heading a consortium of suppliers, including Keycorp) had won the tender to provide the technology to produce biometric passports.[22] In February 2007, the first ePassport was introduced. The cover of the new biometric passport remains essentially the same as that of previous versions. The biometric passport symbol appears at the bottom under the word \"PASSPORT\". However, the design of the inner pages has changed substantially.\n\nOn the inner front cover of the passport, below the crest of the People's Republic of China and above a picture of the Great Wall of China are the following words:中華人民共和國外交部請各國軍政機關對持照人予以通行的便利和必要的協助\n\nThe Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People's Republic of China requests all civil and military authorities of foreign countries to allow the bearer of this passport to pass freely and afford assistance in case of need.On the reverse of the polycarbonate identification page insert is a blue image with the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region emblem in the centre. At the top is a pattern of the words \"中華人民共和國香港特別行政區 HONG KONG SPECIAL ADMINISTRATIVE REGION PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA\". At the bottom is a picture of Victoria Harbour behind an outline of the Great Wall of China.\n\nThe identification page appears on a polycarbonate insert between the front cover and the first page. Using laser engraving technology, the holder's photograph is printed in black and white, with the holder's Hong Kong Permanent Identity Card number printed vertically on the right-hand side of the portrait photograph. The passport is also machine readable, designed for immigration control points equipped with passport scanners. Details which are printed include:[21]\n\n\nThe code \"CHN\" (China) is used for both issuing state and nationality. This is the same as PRC passport and Macau SAR passport. (During the British colonial era, a Hong Kong British Dependent Territories Citizen passport used \"HKG\" as the code of the issuing state and \"GBD\" as the nationality code.)\n\nInstead of printing the holder's signature on the identification/observation pages, space is reserved on the last page of the passport below the emergency contact information for the holder to complete his/her signature.\n\nEnveloping the top right hand corner of the portrait photograph, and the surname, given names and nationality data sections is a kinegram, consisting of an amalgamation of the Chinese and Hong Kong flags, and the letters \"HK香港\". In the middle of the identification page is a multiple laser image consisting of two circles: in the left hand circle is another image of the holder's portrait photograph, at the bottom of which is the passport number; in the right hand circle is the Hong Kong regional flag (the red and white reverse gradually as the viewing angle is changed).[21]\n\nThe Hong Kong permanent identity card number is printed at the bottom right hand side of the portrait photograph as a trapezium shape which gradually widens towards the bottom. The three waves at the bottom of the portrait photograph, as well as the straight line separating the machine readable zone from the rest of the data page and the vertical straight line of the right hand column of Tsing Ma Bridge, contains micro-lettering of the holder's English name, Hong Kong permanent identity card number and date of birth.[21]\n\nThe background of the identification page changes under ultraviolet light, when a scene of the Tsing Ma Bridge with nighttime fireworks becomes visible. The identification page also contains an engraving of a bauhinia, but with certain lines replaced by microlettering consisting of \"HKSAR\".[21]\n\nAll the inner pages have seasonal flowers at the side, and different \"華\" characters in the centre (in English this means \"Chinese\"). As well as being printed in red at the bottom of each page, the passport number is perforated through the top section of all the odd-numbered pages. At the bottom of each page is a gold outline of the Great Wall of China. The seasonal flower is printed across the middle of even-numbered and odd-numbered pages. When two pages are rolled up such that they meet each other, the seasonal flower on the right margin of odd-numbered page matches up with the flower on the left margin of the even-numbered page (e.g. pages 11 and 14), forming a complete bunch of flowers.\n\nThe observations page, located on page 1, contains a photograph of the holder. If the passport is issued through a Chinese foreign mission, the embassy/consulate will make an endorsement in the observations stating so.\n\nThe explanatory notes on the passport are placed on the second last page of the passport, and read as follows-\nThe last page of the passport has a section to be filled in by the holder with contact information in the event of an emergency, as well as a space for the holder to complete his/her signature.\n\nData included in the contactless chip of the passport:[23]\n\n\nFingerprints and iris scans are not included.\n\nThe explanation from back cover for the chip is as follows:本護照含敏感的電子部件，為保持護照的最佳效能，請勿彎曲護照或在本頁打孔；切勿讓本護照接觸高低溫或受潮。\n\nThis passport contains sensitive electronics. For the best performance please do not bend, perforate this page or expose this passport to extreme temperatures or excess moisture.\n\n請勿在此蓋印\n\nDo not stamp here\n\nThe eligibility criteria for application for a Hong Kong SAR passport are as follows:\n\n\nIn comparison with the British National (Overseas) passport, the Hong Kong SAR passport's application fees are lower. When applying in Hong Kong, a British National (Overseas) passport costs £83 (32 pages), and £53 (child) from April 2014. In comparison with other Chinese passports, when applying from Hong Kong, the People's Republic of China passport costs HK$250, whilst the Macao SAR passport costs MOP$370/HK$359.\n\nHong Kong permanent residents without Chinese citizenship cannot be issued HKSAR passports and must obtain passports from their country of origin, or they may obtain a Hong Kong Document of Identity for Visa Purposes if they are stateless.\n\nChinese citizens residing Hong Kong who are not yet Hong Kong permanent residents are not eligible for this passport but may also obtain Hong Kong Document of Identity in lieu of HKSAR passports.\n\nIn late 2019, the fourth version of the HKSAR passport was launched.\n\nThe Ministry of Public Security does not allow Hong Kong permanent residents to travel to the mainland with SAR passports, since both mainland and Hong Kong authorities have agreed that using passport is 'unnecessary and inappropriate' for 'domestic' travel. Instead, those who are eligible for a Hong Kong SAR passport are also eligible to apply for a Home Return Permit via the Bureau of Exit and Entry Administration of the Ministry of Public Security (represented in Hong Kong by the China Travel Service). The possession of a Hong Kong SAR passport does not guarantee the issuing of a Home Return Permit; several pro-democracy advocates, for example, have been refused Home Return Permits or had their permits confiscated.\n\nHong Kong residents who do not have a Home Return Permit or who want to travel to the mainland from a third country must obtain a Chinese Travel Document prior to travel.\n\nRegardless of their citizenship status, Hong Kong permanent residents do not need passports to travel to Macau. However, those residents must bring their Hong Kong permanent identity cards which grant a one-year visa-free entry.\n\nWhen Hong Kong residents travel abroad via Macau, such residents can use their HKSAR passports to enter Macau and stay 7 days visa-free.\n\nHong Kong SAR passport holders who have either visited Taiwan previously or who were born in Hong Kong or Macau are able to obtain a 30-day entry permit online at the website of the National Immigration Agency which can be used for a single entry to Taiwan within three months of the application date. Once the permit has been granted online, the applicant must print it out to be presented at the border checkpoint with a Hong Kong SAR passport with at least 6 months' validity and a return flight/ferry ticket.\n\nHong Kong SAR passport holders can also obtain a 30-day entry permit upon arrival in Taiwan at the border checkpoint on presentation of their Hong Kong Permanent Identity Card as well as their Hong Kong SAR or British National (Overseas) passport, as long as they were born in Hong Kong. A fee of NT$300 is incurred for each application.\n\nAlternatively, they can apply for an entry permit in advance through Taipei Economic and Cultural Office in Hong Kong at a cost of HK$75, which is valid for 3 months from the date of issuance, permitting the holder to enter Taiwan twice, each time for a maximum stay of 30 days.\n\nAccording to the Hong Kong Immigration Department, as of 28 March 2018, 163 countries and territories grant Hong Kong SAR passport holders either visa-free or visa-on-arrival access (Note: this figure excludes countries and territories not officially recognised by the People's Republic of China, e.g. Kosovo and Taiwan), including all member states of the European Union, Brazil, Canada, Japan, Malaysia, New Zealand, Russia, Singapore, South Africa and South Korea. According to the Henley Passport Index, in 2019 the Hong Kong SAR passport was ranked as the 19th most powerful passport worldwide, tied with Bulgaria; in contrast, the Macau SAR passport was ranked 36th, while the PRC passport was ranked 74th.\n\nWith regards to Schengen Agreement signatory states, Hong Kong SAR passport holders are also permitted to take up a paid activity (e.g. work) visa-free for a maximum of 90 days within a 180-day period in Belgium, Denmark, Iceland, Lithuania, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Slovenia and Sweden. In Switzerland, another Schengen signatory state, Hong Kong SAR passport holders are able to exercise a \"gainful occupation\" for a maximum of 8 days during their 90 days visa-exempt stay without the need to apply for a special work visa. However, this 8-day visa exemption excludes gainful occupation in the primary or secondary construction industry, civil engineering, catering and hotel services, industrial and private cleaning industry, surveillance and security services and sex industry. Alternatively, if in possession of a long term residence permit issued by any other Schengen member state, the Hong Kong SAR passport holder can exercise a gainful occupation for up to 3 months visa-free in Switzerland (without the industry-specific restrictions listed in the 8-day visa exemption).\n\nAs Chinese citizens, those travelling on Hong Kong SAR passports are entitled to the consular protection offered by the People's Republic of China government while overseas. However, it is not uncommon for PRC authorities overseas to offer consular assistance to PRC citizens of Hong Kong origin travelling on their British National (Overseas) passports, as their British nationality is not recognised by the Chinese government. See also British consular protection enjoyed by BN(O) passport holders outside the PRC and the UK.\n\nHong Kong SAR passport holders are also able to enjoy travel convenience under some bilateral agreements concluded between the PRC and other countries (on PRC passports in general). For example, holders of PRC passport and that of HKSAR passport are exempt from the fee for Nepalese tourist visas. \n\nOn 10 April 2013, the Prime Minister of Australia, Julia Gillard, announced that, starting from 2015, holders of Hong Kong SAR e-passports would be able to use SmartGates in Australia on a trial basis. The trial period started in September 2015. Since June 2016, Hong Kong e-passport holders are eligible to use smartgates in Australia.\n\nIn some cases, Hong Kong SAR passport holders are subject to visa requirements to countries whose nationals can enter Hong Kong visa-free. For example, American and Indian nationals can enter Hong Kong visa-free for a maximum period of 90 and 14 days respectively, though Hong Kong SAR passport holders are required to apply for a visa for any visit to the United States or India. Other countries such as Paraguay and Costa Rica also require visas for any visits, despite nationals from these countries entering Hong Kong visa free.\n\nAlso, Hong Kong SAR passport holders may be given less favourable visa-free conditions by certain countries, compared to the conditions offered by Hong Kong to those countries' nationals\n\nConversely, in some situations, Hong Kong SAR passport holders enjoy better visa waiver conditions to countries whose nationals are subject to stricter conditions entering Hong Kong. Hong Kong SAR passport holders enjoy a visa-free stay of up to 90 days to Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia and Rwanda, although nationals of these countries are only granted a maximum visa-free stay of 14 days in Hong Kong.\n\nIn some cases, Hong Kong SAR passport holders are offered visa-free access to countries whose nationals are unable to travel to Hong Kong visa-free for any length of time. An example is Nicaragua, to which Hong Kong SAR passport holders can travel visa-free for a maximum period of 90 days. However, Nicaraguans must apply for a visa to travel to Hong Kong.\n\nThe total land area Hong Kong SAR passport holders enjoy visa-free access to exceeds 87 million square kilometres after the visa-free access agreement with Russia.\n\nThe Hong Kong Immigration Department cites the number of countries and territories offering visa-free access for Hong Kong SAR passport holders as 158 (this figure excludes countries and territories not officially recognised by the People's Republic of China, e.g. Kosovo and Taiwan). The British Consulate-General in Hong Kong states 119 as the number of countries and territories providing visa-free access to British National (Overseas) passport holders.\n\nHong Kong residents staying in the United Kingdom for 6 months or more and entering on a British National (Overseas) passport are exempt from having to register with the police, whilst entry on a Hong Kong SAR passport does not exempt them from this administrative procedure, with a police registration fee of £34 payable. In this sense, Hong Kong SAR passports are treated in the same way as ordinary Chinese passports. For travel to Dominica, Grenada and Morocco, entry on a British National (Overseas) passport permits a longer visa-free stay than on a HKSAR passport – 6 months compared to 21 days, 6 months compared to 3 months, and 3 months compared to 30 days respectively. Whilst entry on a HKSAR passport to Nauru requires a visa to be obtained in advance, a BN(O) passport holder can obtain a 30-day visa on arrival free of charge.\n\nHowever, Hong Kong SAR passport holders enjoy better visa-free access to Australia than British National (Overseas) passports. Whilst both passports are eligible for the Electronic Travel Authority scheme, BN(O) passport holders can only apply for an ETA in person at an Australian visa office or through a travel agent/airline, whilst Hong Kong SAR passport holders can apply online at the ETA official website. Entry to Indonesia on a HKSAR passport permits a visa-free stay of 30 days whilst on a BN(O) passport a 30-day visa must be purchased on arrival at a cost of US$25. Similarly, HKSAR passport holders are eligible to obtain a visa on arrival in Lebanon and the United Arab Emirates, whilst BN(O) passport holders are ineligible.\n\nDue to the international status of Hong Kong and British National (Overseas), both HKSAR passports and BN(O) passports are ineligible for Visa Waiver Program of the United States, and required to obtain a visa prior to travelling to the United States. However, HKSAR passport holders may travel to Guam and Northern Mariana Islands visa-free for 45 days.\n\nIn comparison with other Chinese passports, the Hong Kong SAR passport provides considerably more visa-free access than the ordinary People's Republic of China passport, the Macao Special Administrative Region passport, and the Republic of China (Taiwan) passport.\n\nAs a result of bilateral working holiday visa agreements made between the Government of Hong Kong and a number of other countries, Hong Kong SAR passport holders aged between 18 and 30 are eligible to apply for working holiday visas to Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Ireland, Japan, New Zealand and South Korea. These visas allow their holders to spend a maximum of 12 months in the foreign country with the primary purpose of travelling, but also permitting supplementary short-term employment (and for some countries (e.g. South Korea), short-term study may in addition be allowed). On the basis of reciprocity, Australian, Canadian, French, German, Irish, Japanese, New Zealand and South Korean nationals are also able to apply for working holiday visas in Hong Kong under similar conditions.\n\nHKSAR passport holders have been eligible for UK working holiday visas, subject to Certificate of Sponsorship and annual maximum of 1000 placements since January 2014. However, holders of a British National (Overseas) passport are not subject to any quotas nor Certificate of Sponsorship under the same Scheme.\n\nLai Changxing, the suspect of a large smuggling and corruption scandal in Mainland China, used a HKSAR passport to enter Canada as a tourist in 1999. His HKSAR passport and Hong Kong permanent residency were revoked by the Hong Kong Government in 2002 on the grounds that he had obtained the residency by dishonest means.\n\nOn 16 April 2008, the Court of First Instance of the High Court of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region decided in open court to publicize the case of \"Aziz Akbar Butt v Director of Immigration\" (HCAL32-2007). Aziz Akbar Butt, born in Pakistan and a Hong Kong permanent resident who became a naturalised PRC citizen of Hong Kong on 8 January 2007, argued that for HKSAR passport holders such as himself born outside the PRC, Hong Kong or Macao, it was not necessary for the Director of Immigration to label their \"place of birth\" as stated in the HKSAR passport to be the country/state of birth specifically, with the city or province of birth sufficing. He further claimed to have problems travelling to several countries because of the fact that his HKSAR passport stated \"Pakistan\" (i.e. his country of birth) instead of \"Karachi\" or \"Sindh\" (i.e. his specific place of birth within Pakistan) as his \"place of birth\". The Director of Immigration asserted that it was in accordance with HKSAR law and ICAO standards that one's \"country of birth\" should be specified for holders of the HKSAR passport born outside the PRC, Hong Kong and Macao.\n\nThe Court of First Instance of the High Court decided that the Director of Immigration was wrong in using a policy to insert the country of birth as the \"place of birth\" in the applicant's passport in this instance, given a passport's nature as a document ensuring freedom of travel and the lack of a specific requirement within ICAO standards for machine-readable passports to state one's country of birth specifically. As a result of this court decision, the Director of Immigration cancelled the passport previously issued to Butt, and replaced it with a new passport at no cost, with his place of birth stated as \"Sindh\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312101", "title": "Agnès Jaoui", "text": "Agnès Jaoui\n\nAgnès Jaoui (born 19 October 1964) is a French actress, screenwriter, film director and singer.\n\nShe frequently works in collaboration with her former partner Jean-Pierre Bacri.\n\nJaoui was born in Antony, Hauts-de-Seine, and is of Tunisian Jewish descent. She is the daughter of Hubert Jaoui and Gyza Jaoui, who are not related to the cinema industry but are both writers. They moved to Paris when she was 8 years old. She started theatre when she was in high school at the Lycée Henri-IV in Paris. She entered the Cours Florent when she was 15. Patrice Chéreau, director of the Théâtre des Amandiers in Nanterre where she followed drama classes since 1984, gave her a role in the film \"Hôtel de France\" in 1987. That same year, she also played in Harold Pinter's \"L'anniversaire\" beside Jean-Pierre Bacri, who will be later a faithful colleague and companion.\n\nTogether they wrote the play \"Cuisine et dépendances\" which was adapted onscreen in 1992 by Philippe Muyl. In 1993, director Alain Resnais asked them to write an adaptation of Alan Ayckbourn's 8-part play \"Intimate Exchanges\", which became the 2-part film \"Smoking/No Smoking\". Thanks to this ironic diptych about free will and destiny, they won the César Award for Best Writing in 1994. But it is in 1996 that they came to know greater success with Cédric Klapisch's adaptation of their play \"Family Resemblances\" (\"Un air de famille\") which showed their ability to observe and depict everyday life, and to criticize the social norms through a bitter and corrosive humor. Once again, they won the César Award for Best Writing in 1997 and this very same year they collaborated again with Alain Resnais for \"Same Old Song\" (\"On connaît la chanson\") which they wrote but also interpreted: together, they won their third César Award for Best Writing, and Jaoui won her first César Award for Best Supporting Actress.\n\nJaoui directed her first feature film, \"The Taste of Others\" (\"Le Goût des autres\", 2000, written with Jean-Pierre Bacri), which questions social-cultural identities. The film was a huge success in France and attracted 4 million spectators. It also won 4 César Awards in 2001 including Best Film and Best Writing, and also got nominated for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film. In 2004, her second film as a director, \"Look at Me\" (\"Comme une image\"), co-written with Bacri, was selected for the Cannes Festival, and won the prize for Best Screenplay. She starred in the last Richard Dembo's film, \"La maison de Nina\" (2005) and then focused on music and released her album of Latin songs \"Canta\" (2006). She returned to the cinema industry two years later in 2008 with \"Let's Talk About the Rain\" (\"Parlez-moi de la pluie\") and offered French humorist Jamel Debbouze a different role from what he was used to.\n\nIn 2012, she directed her latest film to-date, \"Under the Rainbow\" (\"Au bout du conte\"), also co-written with Bacri. She revisits several fairy tales such as Cinderella, Snow White, and Little Red Riding Hood. It received acclaim —for originality and humor in the writing and dialogue— from critics and audiences.\n\nJaoui studied music in the conservatoire when she was 17, but did not start her career as a singer until 2006 when her first album \"Canta\" was released. It mixed several Latin music genres (such as flamenco, bolero, and bossa) and she sang exclusively in Spanish and Portuguese. In 2007, it won the Victoire de la Musique award for \"best traditional music album\".\n\nJaoui's second album, \"Dans Mon Pays\", was released in 2009. It also featured Latin sonorities and songs sang in Spanish and Portuguese— except for two songs in French.\n\nJaoui is the daughter of Gyza Jaoui; a pioneering figure of transactional analysis, a form of psychotherapy initiated by Eric Berne. Jaoui has a brother, , who is also a screenwriter and a director.\n\nJaoui was in a relationship with Jean-Pierre Bacri from 1987 to 2012. Despite their breakup, the two decided to stay on good terms and to continue to work together.\n\nShe adopted two children from Brazil in 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312108", "title": "Pierre Taki", "text": "Pierre Taki\n\n, better known by his stage name , is the front man for Japanese synthpop group Denki Groove, which consists of himself and Takkyu Ishino. As of 2001 he was involved in an exhibit called Prince Tongha with Hideyuki Tanaka in New York City. He also frequently appears as an actor in film and on television.\n\n\n\nIn March 2019, Taki was arrested on suspicion of cocaine use and his latest video game, \"Judgment\", was withdrawn from sale by the publisher, Sega. His appearance has been removed in the Western release. He was later released on bail on April 4, 2019.\n\nHis voice acting roles were also replaced such as Olaf from \"Frozen\". Home video releases of \"Frozen\" were removed in Japan.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312110", "title": "The Galleria at White Plains", "text": "The Galleria at White Plains\n\nThe Galleria at White Plains is an american shopping mall located in downtown White Plains, New York, a commercial and residential suburb north of New York City.\n\nBuilt by Cadillac Fairview, a Canadian developer, the , four-level mall is located on two large city blocks of former urban renewal land. It opened in August 1980 and was the first of three Gallerias to open in the fall of 1980 around the nation, the others being Sherman Oaks and Fort Lauderdale. Its anchor stores are Macy's and Sears, which were relocated to the mall from nearby locations on Main Street to replace the original anchor stores. Abraham & Straus occupied the east anchor spot until converting to Sterns in 1995 and being replaced by Macy's a year later. The west anchor J.C. Penney closed on April 28, 2001, and was left vacant until September 2003 when Sears moved in. Martin Luther King Blvd. runs directly underneath the mall. The mall was constructed adjacent to a large two-block-long parking garage that is connected directly to the mall at various levels. Shopping floors were color coded blue, green, yellow, and red representing Street Level, Garden Level, location of the Garden food court, and Fashion Level 1 and 2 respectively. During the holiday season, the mall's slogan was \"We bring more good things to Christmas.\" The mall was renovated in the early 1990s; only the glass elevator remains relatively unchanged. For example, the waterfall and stage in the center court was replaced with two miniature fountains situated between the escalators.\n\nSimilar to a sister project in nearby Stamford, Connecticut (the Stamford Town Center mall), the Galleria's architectural character appears fortress-like and overwhelms even the recent high-density urban quality of its downtown environment. Considering the general architectural design of most enclosed shopping malls, it does not have much opportunity to create an interactive streetscape along its surrounding sidewalk areas. A late 1990s enhancement tried to correct some of these physical flaws, but recent retail tenant fit-outs on the sidewalk level have closed off much of this design effort.\n\nIn recent years, the mall has experienced competition from the development of nearby, and more upscale, retail developments such as The Westchester mall and The Source at White Plains. A late 1990s promotional advertisement featured the tag line \"Shopping for the real world,\" a subtle jab at the more upscale and affluent clientele and stores at The Westchester roughly a half-mile away.\n\nOn September 18, 2006, Philip Grant, a homeless convicted rapist was convicted of murder as a hate crime for stabbing Concetta Russo-Carriero to death in a Galleria parking garage on June 29, 2005, because, according to Grant's videotaped confession, she was white with blond hair and blue eyes. Public outrage over the killing prompted local officials to shut down an area shelter from which homeless men, including dangerous sex offenders, were bused downtown each morning, where many reportedly congregated near the Galleria parking garage.\n\nOn January 5, 2009, a man fell two stories from the third level to the food court level in a suspected suicide attempt at the mall.Interior shots of the mall were used in the 2018 film ’’Eighth Grade’’.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312118", "title": "Ferdinand Bol", "text": "Ferdinand Bol\n\nFerdinand Bol (24 June 1616 – 24 August 1680) was a Dutch painter, etcher and draftsman. Although his surviving work is rare, it displays Rembrandt's influence; like his master, Bol favored historical subjects, portraits, numerous self-portraits, and single figures in exotic finery.\n\nFerdinand was born in Dordrecht as the son of a surgeon, Balthasar Bol. Ferdinand Bol was first an apprentice of Jacob Cuyp in his hometown and/or of Abraham Bloemaert in Utrecht. After 1630 he studied with Rembrandt, living in his house in Sint Antoniesbreestraat, then a fashionable street and area for painters, jewellers, architects, and many Flemish and Jewish immigrants. In 1641 Bol started his own studio. \n\nIn 1652 he became a burgher of Amsterdam, and in 1653 he married Elisabeth Dell, whose father held positions with the Admiralty of Amsterdam and the wine merchants' guild, both institutions that later gave commissions to the artist. Within a few years (1655) he became the head of the guild and received orders to deliver two chimney pieces for rooms in the new town hall designed by Jacob van Campen, and four more for the Admiralty of Amsterdam.\n\nAround this time, Bol was a popular and successful painter. His palette had lightened, his figures possessed greater elegance, and by the middle of the decade he was receiving more official commissions than any other artist in Amsterdam. Godfrey Kneller was his pupil. Bol delivered four paintings for the two mansions of the brothers Trip, originally also from Dordrecht. \n\nBol's first wife died in 1660. In 1669 Bol married for the second time to Anna van Erckel, widow of the treasurer of the Admiralty, and apparently retired from painting at that point in his life. In 1672 the couple moved to Keizersgracht 672, then a newly designed part of the city, and now the Museum Van Loon. Bol served as a governor in a Home for Lepers. Bol died a few weeks after his wife, on Herengracht, where his son, a lawyer, lived. \n\nProbably his best known painting is a portrait of Elisabeth Bas, the wife of the naval officer Joachim Swartenhondt and an innkeeper near the Dam square. This and many other of his paintings would in the 19th century be falsely attributed to Rembrandt. \n\n"}
{"id": "2312119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312119", "title": "Jamieson v HM Advocate", "text": "Jamieson v HM Advocate\n\nJamieson v HM Advocate is a notable legal case which established a precedent in Scotland which held that a man does not commit rape where he honestly, albeit unreasonably, believes his victim is consenting. This was a criminal case decided by the High Court of Justiciary sitting as the Court of Criminal Appeal. The appeal case was heard before a panel of three judges with the Lord Justice-General (Lord Hope) as president, with Lord Allanbridge and Lord Cowie. The case is reported at 1994 SLT 537.\n\nThe decision relies upon the point that in Scots Law, a criminal act consists of two elements, the factual act done and the \"mens rea\" or intention of the perpetrator in carrying out that action. The crime of rape consisted, at that time, of a man having vaginal sexual intercourse with a woman without her consent, with the crime of rape being defined at common law. Therefore, it was held that the \"mens rea\" element is that the man either believes the woman is not consenting or is \"reckless or indifferent to the matter of consent\". Accordingly, it was held that if the man genuinely believes the woman is consenting, he is not committing the specific crime of rape. This was established law per the cited cases of Sweeney v. X 1982 S.C.C.R. 509 and Meek v. H.M. Advocate 1983 S.L.T. 280.\n\nIn Jamieson the specific point was whether this belief requires to be based on objectively reasonable grounds, or if it was sufficient that the alleged perpetrator genuinely held this belief even although another person in the same circumstances might not have the same belief. The decision was that honest belief is all that is required, although an absence of reasonable grounds to hold such a belief would affect whether a jury would accept if as a matter of fact he did genuinely believe this.\n\nThis precedent is unlikely to be considered as still 'good law' as the Sexual Offences (Scotland) Act 2009 (which provided the first statutory definition of rape and of consent) states at S.1 (1)(b) that [a person 'A' commits rape upon 'B'] \"\"(b)without any reasonable belief that B consents\"\".\n"}
{"id": "2312133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312133", "title": "Pope Benjamin II of Alexandria", "text": "Pope Benjamin II of Alexandria\n\nPope Benjamin II of Alexandria, 82nd Pope of Alexandria and Patriarch of the See of St. Mark.\n\nHis episcopate lasted for eleven years, seven months and 26 days from 10 May 1327 (15 Pachons 1043 AM) to 6 January 1339 (11 Tobah 1055 AM).\nThe See of St Mark remained vacant for 11 months and 26 days after his death. He died on the day of the feast of Epiphany (6 January 1339, 11 Tobah 1055 AM). He was buried in Deir Shahran (the Shahran Monastery). His body was later transferred to the Monastery of Abba Bishoy in the Nitrian Desert, the monastery that he restored after it was completely destroyed in riots.\nIn his time, the Papal Residence was at the Church of The Holy Virgin Mary & St Mercurius in Haret Zuweila in Coptic Cairo.\n\nHe episcopate was at the time of the third reign of Al-Sultan Al-Nasser Ibn Qalawun. El-Malik el-Nasser Nasr el-Din Muhammad ibn Qalawun ( الملك الناصر ناصر الدين محمد بن قلاوون), commonly known as El-Nasser Muhammad ( الناصر محمد), or by his kunya: Abu'l Maali or as Ibn Qalawun (born 1285– died 1341 AD) was the ninth Mamluk sultan of Egypt. He ruled for three reigns: first as a child (December 1293–December 1294), then a second reign from 1299–1309, and then a third reign from 1310 until his death in 1341.\n\nHis name at birth was Benjamin. He was born in a town of Demicrat (دميقراط) at the deep south of Egypt. He loved the life of solitude and tranquility and thus he led a life of solitude in the desert near his hometown. As many of his relatives and acquaintances started visiting him, he left the place and went to the monastery of the Mule in the Mount of Tora to realize his longing for the life of solitude away from people. This was not possible, as soon his virtues became known. Many believers admired him and came asking for his advice and for his prayers. When Abba Barsoum El-Aarian saw him, he prophesied that he would sit on the throne of St. Mark. Indeed, 43 days after the repose of Pope John IX, the 81st patriarch, the bishops gathered at the Patriarchate to elect the monk Benjamin from Deir al-Baqal in Mount Tura. He was ordained on 15 Bashans 1043 AM (10 May 1327 AD) and was called Benjamin II.\n\nThe entire period from the seventh century to the nineteenth century was a period of continual persecution of the Egyptian Church at the hands of various Muslim rulers. This would be punctured by short periods of peace in which the persecution would temporarily drop in intensity.\n\nIn his days, as characteristic of the entire period, a storm of extreme persecution and distress fell on the Copts. Many churches and monasteries were destroyed. The monks and nuns were harassed, and the life of the bishops became especially hard. Of particular mention was a wave of persecution unleashed by the governor Sharaf el-Din ibn el-Taj. He remained in office for one year and then he died. His successor was a patient and fair governor who treated Muslims and Christians with fairness. Thus, Abba Benjamin was able to rebuild what was destroyed of the churches and monasteries especially the monastery of Abba Bishoy in the Nitrian Dessert, which had been completely destroyed.\n\nIn the third year of his papacy (March 1330 AD, 1046 AM), 20 bishops gathered in the monastery of St. Makarios during the lent to consecrate the Holy Oil of Chrismation (Miron).\nThen, the church faced a new wave of distress, this time at the hands of Sultan El-Nasser Ibn Qalawun. The Emperor of Ethiopia intervened to create an atmosphere of peace between the Patriarch and the Sultan, which restored a period of tranquility.\n"}
{"id": "2312137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312137", "title": "Natural Products Association", "text": "Natural Products Association\n\nThe Natural Products Association or NPA (formerly the NNFA, or the National Nutritional Foods Association) is the largest and oldest nonprofit organization representing the interests of manufacturers and retailers of the natural products industry, which includes organic and health foods, dietary supplements, natural ingredient cosmetics, and other similar products. The organization includes more than 1,900 members accounting for more than 10,000 retailers, manufacturers, wholesalers and distributors of natural products.\n\nThe Natural Products Association was founded in 1936 as the American Health Foods Association (AHFA) to inform consumers\nabout the benefits of the natural nutrition industry. In 1937, the association changed its name to the Natural Health Foods\nAssociation (NHFA), representing retailers, manufacturers and distributors. In 1943, NHFA was renamed to the National Dietary Foods Association (NDFA). In 1970, NDFA officially became the National Nutritional Foods Association (NNFA). The organization renamed itself the Natural Products Association or NPA in June 2006. over 650 members today. Its members include suppliers, manufacturers, and retailers representing 10,000 storefronts.\n\nThe science and regulatory affairs department oversees the association's third-party certification programs.\n\nThe NPA Natural Seal is described as the first and only natural products certification in the United States. Currently only personal care and home care products and ingredients can be certified. The association requires that certified products must be at least 95 percent natural ingredients or ingredients from natural sources, excluding water. NPA-certified products must use natural ingredients, avoid ingredients with health risks, don't use animal testing, and include biodegradable or recycled material in the packaging. Products also must list all ingredients on the package label, and NPA requires 100 percent natural fragrances and colorants. Certified products are said to appear in more than 85,000 stores nationwide. NPA has certified more than 1,200 products and ingredients since 2008, including well-known brands like Burt's Bees and J.R. Watkins.\n\nThe Natural Products Association launched the first third-party Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) program for the manufacturing of dietary supplements and ingredients in 1999. NPA GMP Certification is awarded to companies that comply with the NPA GMP standard as verified through comprehensive third-party inspections of facilities and GMP-related documentation. More than 70 companies are known to have achieved certification. NPA also offers a series of GMP training seminars across the United States each year.\n\nThe Natural Products Association educates members of Congress about the industry and the impact of federal legislation and regulations. In addition, NPA provides comments to federal agencies on how regulatory enforcement activities may affect manufacturers, retailers and consumers of natural products and dietary supplements. NPA's regional offices are primarily responsible for monitoring state legislative activity, though the national office leads outreach in California and Hawaii.\n\nEach year, NPA hosts Natural Products Day for NPA members and others in the industry to visit Congressional offices and talk to senators, representatives and their staffs about legislative and regulatory issues. NPA also presents Congressional Champion Awards to selected legislators. In addition, the association hosts a California Natural Products Day in Sacramento.\n\nOffering two days of industry-driven, educational sessions, workshop programming, case studies, interactive discussions, networking and benchmarking.  The Big Natural brings together industry leaders, innovators and government officials who share insights that will educate, empower and spark innovative ideas to drive the industry forward.\n\nThe Dietary Supplement Caucus (DSC) was launched in 2006 to serve as a bipartisan, bicameral group to facilitate discussions among congressional lawmakers about issues related to dietary supplements. In 2008, the DSC, in cooperation with the Natural Products Association and the Council for Responsible Nutrition, held its first briefing. The briefings continue to be held on Capitol Hill.\n\nThe Natural Products Association offers a variety of educational programs and resources for both members and non-members. These include:\n\n\nNPA members typically receive discounts off the price of education sessions.\n\nMembers of the Natural Products Association also may join one of five regional offices. Each region is governed by its own board of directors and the president of each region also sits on the national NPA Board of Directors. Regional offices include: NPA East; NPA Midwest; NPA Northwest; SENPA Southeast Natural Products Association; and NPA Southwest.\n"}
{"id": "2312138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312138", "title": "Betzenweiler", "text": "Betzenweiler\n\nBetzenweiler () is a municipality in the Biberach district of Baden-Württemberg, in southwestern Germany.\n\nThe area is between the basin of Federsee and the Bussen, the largest mountain in central Swabia.\n\nThe official language is German, but day-to-day conversations by almost all of its inhabitants are in Swabian dialect.\n\nRelative to its size of ca. 713 Betzenweiler has a big industry and more in-commuters than out-commuters.\n\nThere are about 15 bigger companies, some with more than 200 employees, and a lot of small ones.\n"}
{"id": "2312139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312139", "title": "The Amazing Scarlet Spider", "text": "The Amazing Scarlet Spider\n\nThe Amazing Scarlet Spider is the name of a short-lived comic book series starring the Scarlet Spider. It was published by Marvel Comics for two issues, from November 1995 to December 1995. The book was a direct continuation, in terms of creative teams and storylines, of the series \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" which the title temporarily replaced for two months between issues 406 and 407.\n\nIt was one of four briefly published books which featured the character. The others were \"The Spectacular Scarlet Spider\", \"Scarlet Spider\", and \"Web of Scarlet Spider\".\n\nThe series began when Peter Parker gave up being Spider-Man to retire with his pregnant wife, and the Scarlet Spider took on his duties. The title returned to its old name and numbering when Ben Reilly took on the Spider-Man name.\n\nThe writer of the two issues was Tom DeFalco and the penciller was Mark Bagley.\n\nBoth issues are collected in \"Spider-Man: The Complete Ben Reilly Epic Book 1\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2312145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312145", "title": "Creggan, County Tyrone", "text": "Creggan, County Tyrone\n\nCreggan (Irish: \"creagan\" (A rocky place). is a townland in County Tyrone, Northern Ireland. It is situated in the historic barony of Omagh East and the civil parish of Termonmaguirk and covers an area of 4022 acres.\n\nPopular places of tourist interest include the An Creagán centre, located three miles north of Carrickmore on the main Cookstown to Omagh road. Tourists are drawn to the old-fashioned cottages located near the An Creagán centre. \n\nThe popular traditional folk song, The \"Creggan White Hare\", is named for this townland.\n\nThe population of the townland declined during the 19th century:\n\n"}
{"id": "2312147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312147", "title": "Thorstein Helstad", "text": "Thorstein Helstad\n\nThorstein Helstad (born 28 April 1977) is a retired Norwegian footballer who played as a forward.\n\nHelstad was born in Hamar, and started his career in his local club FL Fart where he at age 16 scored two goals against Løten in 1993 that made the team win promotion to 3. Divisjon. He transferred to the local Norwegian First Division side HamKam, at the age of 18, and played for the club between 1995 and 1997. Helstad joined the Tippeligaen side Brann ahead of the 1998 season. He became one of the biggest stars in the team, and was Tippeliga top scorer in both 2000 and 2001 and won the Kniksen Award as the best striker in 2000. Helstad was sold to Austria Wien alongside Raymond Kvisvik, where he won both the Austrian Bundesliga, the Austrian Cup and the Austrian Supercup. After scoring 14 goals in 69 matches for the Austrian side, Helstad returned to Norway where he signed a four-year deal with Rosenborg.\n\nWith Steffen Iversen as the preferred striker, Helstad never managed to gain a regular spot in the first squad, but was often used a winger in a 4–3–3 system.\n\nAfter scoring 24 goals in 58 matches, Helstad returned to Brann in June 2006. Since he transferred in the middle of the season he won both gold with Rosenborg and silver with Brann.\n\nIn July 2008, Brann accepted a €2 million bid for Helstad from French club Le Mans, where he was installed as their starting striker. Helstad scored 21 goals in 2010–11.\n\nIn June 2011, Helstad made a free transfer move to recently relegated and former Champions League finalist Monaco.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312148", "title": "Septimus Winner", "text": "Septimus Winner\n\nSeptimus Winner (11 May 1827 – 22 November 1902) was an American songwriter of the 19th century. He used his own name, and also the pseudonyms Alice Hawthorne, Percy Guyer, Mark Mason, Apsley Street, and Paul Stenton. He was also a teacher, performer, and music publisher.\n\nWinner was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, the seventh child to Joseph E. Winner (an instrument maker specializing in violins) and wife Mary Ann. Mary Ann Winner was a relative of Nathaniel Hawthorne, hence Septimus' use of the Hawthorne name as part of his pseudonym Alice Hawthorne.\n\nWinner attended Philadelphia Central High School. Although largely self-taught in the area of music, he did take lessons from Leopold Meignen around 1853, but by that time he was already an established instrumental teacher, and performed locally with various ensembles.\n\nFrom around 1845 to 1854, Septimus Winner partnered with his brother Joseph Eastburn Winner (1837–1918) as music publishers. Septimus continued in the business with various partners and names until 1902.\n\nWinner was especially popular for his ballads published under the pseudonym of Alice Hawthorne, which became known generically as \"Hawthorne's Ballads\". His brother was also a composer, publishing under the alias Eastburn. Septimus Winner was inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 1970.\n\nIn addition to composing popular songs, Winner also produced more than 200 instruction method books for more than twenty-three instruments. He wrote more than 1,500 easy arrangements for various instruments and almost 2,000 arrangements for violin and piano.\n\nIn 1855, Winner published the song \"Listen to the Mockingbird\" under the Alice Hawthorne name. He had arranged and added words to a tune by local singer/guitarist Richard Milburn, an employee, whom he credited. Later he sold the rights, reputedly for five dollars, and subsequent publications omitted Milburn's name from the credits. The song was indeed a winner, selling about 15 million copies in the United States alone.\n\nAnother of his successes, and still familiar, is \"Der Deitcher's Dog\", or \"Oh Where, oh Where Ish Mine Little Dog Gone\", a text that Winner set to the German folk tune \"In Lauterbach hab' ich mein' Strumpf verlor'n\" in 1864, which recorded massive sales during Winner's lifetime.\n\nThe first verse of \"Der Deitcher's Dog\" is particularly noteworthy as its first verse has become a popular nursery rhyme:\nModern versions occasionally change \"cut\" to \"so\".\n\nThe original song is written in German dialect, and subsequent verses praise lager but lament the fact that \"mit no money\" it is not possible to drink, and praise sausages and thence to speculate on the fate of the missing dog:\n\nAnother of Winner's best-remembered songs, \"Ten Little Injuns\", was originally published in 1864. This was adapted, possibly by Frank J. Green in 1868 as \"Ten Little Niggers\" and became a standard of the blackface minstrel shows. It was sung by Christy's Minstrels and became widely known in Europe, where it was used by Agatha Christie in her novel \"And Then There Were None\", about ten killings on a remote island. In 2005, film historian Richard Finegan identified Winner as the composer of The Three Stooges song \"Swingin' the Alphabet\" featured in their 1938 film \"Violent Is the Word for Curly\". Winner had originally published it in 1875 as \"The Spelling Bee\".\n\nIn 1862, Winner was court-martialed and briefly jailed, accused of treason, because he wrote and published a song entitled \"Give Us Back Our Old Commander: Little Mac, the People's Pride\". It concerned General George B. McClellan, whom President Abraham Lincoln had just fired from the command of the Army of the Potomac. McClellan was a popular man, and his supporters bought more than 80,000 copies of the song in its first two days of publication. He was released from arrest after promising to destroy all of the remaining copies. Shortly after his release is when he wrote, \"Oh Where, oh Where Ish Mine Little Dog Gone\". The song reappeared in 1864 when McClellan was a presidential candidate. In 1880 the words were rewritten as a campaign ditty on behalf of Ulysses S. Grant.\n\nWinner's 1865 love song of the American Civil War, \"Sweet Ellie Rhee\" (or \"Carry me back to Tennessee\"), is widely considered to have been introduced to South Africa by Americans working in the Transvaal gold mines, and to have greatly influenced the well-known Afrikaans song Sarie Marais. \n\nArtist Margaret F. Winner was his youngest daughter.\n\nThe most popular Septimus Winner songs include:\n\n\n\nAll other sources are from online digital archives or publications of the original sheet music which are in the public domain. Sources include:\n\nSheet Music\nStreaming audio\n\n"}
{"id": "2312157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312157", "title": "Andelfingen, Germany", "text": "Andelfingen, Germany\n\nAndelfingen is a small village in the south of Germany, in the municipality of Langenenslingen, in the district Biberach. It has a population of 1200.\n"}
{"id": "2312158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312158", "title": "Possum Kingdom State Park", "text": "Possum Kingdom State Park\n\nPossum Kingdom State Park is a state park in Palo Pinto County, Texas, USA, that was built in the 1940s by the Civilian Conservation Corps. It covers approximately , and lies in the Palo Pinto Mountains and Brazos River Valley of Texas. The park borders the large Possum Kingdom Lake, a lake known for its clear blue waters. Possum Kingdom winds for down the Brazos River, and has more than of shoreline. A privately owned store and marina in the park cater to boaters and campers.\n\nThe Boy Scouts of America have a summer camp \"Constantin\" on the shores of Possum Kingdom Lake as does the YMCA at camp \"Grady Spruce\".\n\nCamp Grady Spruce is directly across from the most well known geological feature of the lake called , a channel which cuts between an island and a row of cliffs.\n\nThe title of the song \"Possum Kingdom\" by Toadies is derived from Possum Kingdom State Park.\n\nOn April 15, 2011, the park was closed due to wildfires, and was reopened on May 25, 2011.\n\nDue to Texas' severe drought, another breakout of wildfires that began on August 30, 2011 plagued the Possum Kingdom Lake area. The fires burned into September, and though the park was not damaged, 39 homes and 9 recreation vehicles were destroyed.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312163", "title": "Smart v HM Advocate", "text": "Smart v HM Advocate\n\nSmart v Her Majesty's Advocate is a notable Scots law case that effectively excludes the doctrine common law doctrine of Volenti non fit injuria from Scots criminal law, when concerning assault. \n\nThe case saw the accused, William Smart, who was charged with assault, lodging the defence that his victim Issac Wilkie has consented to a \"square go\". Therefore Smart could not be charged with assaulting Wilkie or any injuries arising from the fight.\n\nSmart was originally tried at Paisley Sheriff Court in 1974 by Sheriff Mclean and a jury. Smart put forward two lines of argument. Firstly, that he should not be charged with assault because the victim had consented to fight him and thus knew of the risks and consequences. Secondly, he argued that he had acted in self-defence, a plea that was ruled out because of the lack of evidence. The only question to be considered was whether consent ruled out (negated) assault?\n\nThe sheriff ruled that:\n\n\"Now something has been said about consent. I direct you in law that consent—if you in fact were to find that Wilkie had consented in some way to this assault—then that would not be a defence … if the act is criminal it cannot lose its criminal character because the victim consented, and the reason is not far to seek. \"\n\nSmart was found guilty of assault by the jury and sentenced to detention for a period of three months. Smart chose to appeal this decision claiming consent was a defence to a charge of assault on the grounds that both men had chosen to fight without weapons in similar conditions to a boxing match. Smart relied on a passage from Gordon, Criminal Law at page 773, which stated:\n\"If A and B decide to fight each other they cannot be guilty of assaulting each other, so long as neither exceeds the degree of violence consented to or permitted by law.\"\n\nThe appeal was heard on 24 January 1975 in the High court of justiciary, who on appeal held that it was not a defence to a criminal charge of assault that the injuries had been caused in the course of a consensual fight. The court held that:\n\n\"it is in the public interest that it should be decided and made known that consent to a 'square go' is not a defence to a charge of assault based on that agreed combat.\"\n\nThe situation was different from indecent acts or injuries caused in the course of organised sports, such as boxing.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312166", "title": "Henry Coxe", "text": "Henry Coxe\n\nHenry Octavius Coxe (20 September 1811 in Bucklebury, Berkshire, England – 8 July 1881 in Oxford) was an English librarian and scholar.\n\nThe eighth son of Rev. Richard Coxe and Susan Smith, he was educated at Westminster School and Worcester College, Oxford. Immediately on taking his degree in 1833, he began work in the manuscript department of the British Museum, became in 1838 sub-librarian of the Bodleian Library in Oxford, and in 1860 succeeded Dr. Bulkeley Bandinel as head librarian, an office he held until his death in 1881.\n\nHaving proved himself an able palaeographer, he was sent out by the British government under Henry John Temple, 3rd Viscount Palmerston to inspect the libraries in the monasteries of the Levant in 1857. He discovered some valuable manuscripts, but the monks were too wise to part with their treasures. One valuable result of his travels was the detection of the forgery attempted by Constantine Simonides. He was the author of various catalogues, and under his direction that of the Bodleian, in more than 720 volumes, was completed. He published \"Rogri de Wendover Chronica\", 5 vols (1841–44); the \"Black Prince\", an historical poem written in French by Chandos Herald (1842); and \"Report on the Greek Manuscripts yet remaining in the Libraries of the Levant\" (1858).\n\nHe was not only an accurate librarian but an active and hardworking clergyman, and was for the last twenty-five years of his life in charge of the parish of Wytham, near Oxford. He was likewise honorary fellow of Worcester and Corpus Christi.\n\nIn 1839 he married Charlotte Esther, daughter of Tomkyns Hilgrove Turner, and fathered five children, of whom Susan Esther (1842–1894) married John Wordsworth, future Bishop of Salisbury.\n"}
{"id": "2312170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312170", "title": "Viable system model", "text": "Viable system model\n\nThe viable system model (VSM) is a model of the organizational structure of any autonomous system capable of producing itself. A viable system is any system organised in such a way as to meet the demands of surviving in the changing environment. One of the prime features of systems that survive is that they are adaptable. The VSM expresses a model for a viable system, which is an abstracted cybernetic (regulation theory) description that is claimed to be applicable to any organisation that is a viable system and capable of autonomy.\n\nThe model was developed by operations research theorist and cybernetician Stafford Beer in his book \"Brain of the Firm\" (1972). Together with Beer's earlier works on cybernetics applied to management, this book effectively founded management cybernetics.\n\nThe first thing to note about the cybernetic theory of organizations encapsulated in the VSM is that viable systems are recursive; viable systems contain viable systems that can be modeled using an identical cybernetic description as the higher (and lower) level systems in the containment hierarchy (Beer expresses this property of viable systems as \"cybernetic isomorphism\").\nA development of this model has originated the theoretical proposal called viable systems approach.\nHere we give a brief introduction to the cybernetic description of the organization encapsulated in a single level of the VSM.\n\nA viable system is composed of five interacting subsystems which may be mapped onto aspects of organizational structure. In broad terms Systems 1–3. are concerned with the 'here and now' of the organization's operations, System 4 is concerned with the 'there and then' – strategical responses to the effects of external, environmental and future demands on the organization. System 5 is concerned with balancing the 'here and now' and the 'there and then' to give policy directives which maintain the organization as a viable entity.\nIn addition to the subsystems that make up the first level of recursion, the environment is represented in the model. The presence of the environment in the model is necessary as the domain of action of the system and without it there is no way in the model to contextualize or ground the internal interactions of the organization.\n\n\"Algedonic alerts\" (from the Greek αλγος, pain and ηδος, pleasure) are alarms and rewards that escalate through the levels of recursion when actual performance fails or exceeds capability, typically after a timeout.\n\nThe model is derived from the architecture of the brain and nervous system. Systems 3-2-1 are identified with the ancient brain or autonomic nervous system. System 4 embodies cognition and conversation. System 5, the higher brain functions, include introspection and decision making.\n\nIn \"Heart of Enterprise\" a companion volume to \"Brain...\", Beer applies Ashby's concept of (Requisite) Variety: the number of possible states of a system or of an element of the system. There are two aphorisms that permit observers to calculate Variety; four Principles of Organization; the Recursive System Theorem; three Axioms of Management and a Law of Cohesion. These rules ensure the Requisite Variety condition is satisfied, in effect that resources are matched to requirement.\n\nThese aphorisms are:\n\n\nThese principles are:\n\nThis theorem states:\n\nThese axioms are:\n\nThis law ('something invariant in nature') states:\n\nIn \"Brain of the Firm\" (p. 163) Beer describes a triple vector to characterize activity in a System 1. The components are:\n\nBeer adds \"It would help a lot to fix these definitions clearly in the mind.\" System 4's job is essentially to realize potential. He then defines \nConsider the management of a process with cash earnings or savings for a company or government: \nThese methods (also known as normalisations) can be similarly applied in general e.g. to hours worked in the performance of tasks or products in a production process of some kind.\n\nWhen actuality deviates from capability, because someone did something well or something badly, an algedonic alert is sent to management. If corrective action, adoption of a good technique or correction of an error, is not taken in a timely manner the alert is escalated. Because the criteria are applied in an ordered hierarchy the management itself need not be, but the routine response functions must be ordered to reflect best known heuristic practice. These heuristics are constantly monitored for improvement by the organization's System 4s.\n\nPay structures reflect these constraints on performance when capability or potential is realized with, for example, productivity bonuses, stakeholder agreements and intellectual property rights.\n\nIn ascending the recursions of the viable system the context of each autonomous 5-4-3-2 metasystem enlarges and acquires more variety.\n\nThis defines a metalanguage stack of increasing capability to resolve undecidability in the autonomous lower levels. If someone near process level needs to innovate to achieve potential, or restore capability, help can be secured from management of higher variety.\n\nAn algedonic alert, sent when actuality deviates by some statistically significant amount from capability, makes this process automatic.\n\nThe notion of adding more variety or states to resolve ambiguity or undecidability (also known as the decision problem) is the subject of Chaitin's metamathematical conjecture algorithmic information theory and provides a potentially rigorous theoretical basis for a general management heuristic. If a process is not producing the agreed product more information, if applicable, will correct this, resolve ambiguity, conflict or undecidability.\n\nIn \"Platform for Change\" (Beer 1975) the thesis is developed via a collection of papers to learned bodies, including UK Police and Hospitals, to produce a visualization of the \"Total System\". Here a \"Relevant ethic\" evolves from \"Experimental ethics\" and the \"Ethic with a busted gut\" to produce a sustainable earth with reformed \"old institutions\" becoming \"new institutions\" driven by approval (eudemonic criteria \"Questions of Metric\" in Platform... pp 163– 179) from the \"software milieu\" while culture adopts the systems approach and \"Homo faber\" (man the maker) becomes \"Homo Gubernator\" (self-steering).\n\nIn applying the VSM variety measures are used to match people, machines and money to jobs that produce products or services. In a set of processes some jobs are done by one person. Some are done by many and often many processes are done by the same person. Throughout the working day a participant, in completing a task, may find the focus shifts between internal and external Systems 1–5 from moment to moment.\n\nThe choices, or decisions discriminated, and their cost (or effort) defines the variety and hence resources needed for the job. The processes (Systems 1) are operationally managed by System 3 by monitoring performance and assuring (System 2) the flow of product between System 1s and out to users.\n\nSystem 3 is able to audit (via 3*) past performance so \"bad times\" for production can be compared to \"good times\". If things go wrong and levels of risk increase the System 3 asks for help or puts it to colleagues for a remedy. This is the pain of an algedonic alert, which can be automatic when performance fails to achieve capability targets. The autonomic 3–2–1 homeostatic loop's problem is absorbed for solution within the autonomy of its metasystem. Development (the System 4 role of research and marketing) is asked for recommendations.\n\nIf more resources are required System 5 has to make the decision on which is the best option from System 4. Escalation to higher management (up the metalinguistic levels of recursion) will be needed if the remedy requires more resources than the current level of capability or variety can sustain. The pleasure of an algedonic alert which are performance improving innovations can also be handled in this way.\n\nIn a small business all these functions might be done by one person or shared between the participants. In larger enterprises roles can differentiate and become more specialized emphasizing one or more aspects of the VSM. Local conditions, the environment and nature of the service or product, determines where warehousing, sales, advertising, promotion, dispatch, taxation, finance, salaries etc., fit into this picture. Not all enterprises charge for their transactions (e.g. some schools and medical services, policing) and voluntary staff may not be paid. Advertising or shipping might not be part of the business or they might be the principal activity. Whatever the circumstances, all enterprises are required to be useful to their users if they are to remain viable. For all participants the central question remains: \"Do I do what I always do for this transaction or do I innovate?\" It is embodied in the calls on System 4. The VSM describes the constraints: a knowledge of past performance and how it may be improved.\n\nBeer dedicated \"Brain of the Firm\" to his colleagues past and present with the words \"\"absolutum obsoletum\"\" which he translated as \"If it works it’s out of date\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312172", "title": "Dettingen an der Iller", "text": "Dettingen an der Iller\n\nDettingen an der Iller () is a town in the district of Biberach in Baden-Württemberg in Germany, located on the Iller river. At the end of 2015 its population was approximately 2100.\n"}
{"id": "2312185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312185", "title": "Missile Datcom", "text": "Missile Datcom\n\nMissile DATCOM is a widely used semi-empirical datasheet component build-up method for the preliminary design and analysis of missile aerodynamics and performance. It has been in continual development for over twenty years, with the latest version released in March 2011. It has traditionally been supplied free of charge by the United States Air Force to American defense contractors. The code is considered restricted under International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) and should not be distributed outside the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312196", "title": "Regina Hall", "text": "Regina Hall\n\nRegina Lee Hall (born 1971) is an American actress, and comedian. She has appeared in numerous television series, most prominently in a regular role on the comedy series \"Ally McBeal\" (2001–2002) and \"Black Monday\" (2019–present). Hall became known for starring as Brenda in the \"Scary Movie\" film series (2000–2005), and her other significant film roles include \"The Best Man\" (1999) and its sequel \"The Best Man Holiday\" (2013), \"Malibu's Most Wanted\" (2003), \"Think Like a Man\" (2012) and its sequel \"Think Like a Man Too\" (2014), \"About Last Night\" (2014), \"Vacation\" (2015), \"Girls Trip\" (2017), and \"The Hate U Give\" (2018).\n\nShe received critical acclaim for starring as Lisa Conroy in the comedy film \"Support the Girls\" (2018), becoming the first African American to win the New York Film Critics Circle Award for Best Actress, and received nominations for the Gotham Award and Independent Spirit Award for Best Actress.\n\nHall was born on December 12, 1970, in Washington, D.C., the daughter of a contractor and electrician father, Odie Hall, and a teacher mother, Ruby. After graduating from Immaculata College High School, Hall enrolled at Fordham University in the Bronx, where she graduated with a bachelor's degree in English in 1992. She later enrolled at New York University, where she earned a master's degree in journalism in 1997. Reflecting on college, Hall said: \"I loved being a student. I could've gone to school until I was 75 years old as long as somebody would've paid my rent. I would've been a professional student.\"\n\nShe wanted a career with impact and envisioned a career in writing or journalism, but Hall's first semester of graduate school changed drastically when her father died of a stroke. \"It was sudden. And I think when sudden events that are painful happen in your life, you know, they redirect your course,\" Hall reflected. \"When you’re young, you don’t grasp the gravity of life. But when you lose someone that you spend most of your life with, and you’re young, you do. And so I think that started me thinking about what I really wanted to do in life. And I know my father would have wanted me to finish school. So I did that.\"\nShe began a career in the entertainment industry, starting off with a guest appearance on Sadat X's 1996 album \"Wild Cowboys\" on the track, \"The Interview\".\n\nIn 1997, Hall appeared in her first television commercial at the age of 26. Her television career began with a role on the soap opera \"Loving\", and guest appearances on the Fox police drama \"New York Undercover\". She played Kandy in the 1999 film \"The Best Man\". She left a lasting impression on viewers with her portrayal of the character Candace \"Candy\" Sparks. Hall reflected: \"It was my very first movie. I met Sanaa Lathan on it, and we did \"Love and Basketball\" together, which was my second film. And then, at that point, I was visiting L.A. to stay and it led to a third film and a fourth film. And it was really a big deal because I'd never been on a set before.\"\nIt signaled a pivotal point for Hall's career. As a key member of the all-star cast, she welcomed rising-star status in \"black-Hollywood\".\n\nHall gained more recognition with her role in the comedy-horror-spoof \"Scary Movie\" (and the sequels \"Scary Movie 2\", \"Scary Movie 3\", and \"Scary Movie 4\") portraying the sex-crazed Brenda Meeks, and the TV movie \"Disappearing Acts\". The \"Scary Movie\" films would become some of her best known roles.\nIn 2001, Hall landed the role of Coretta Lipp on the prime-time drama \"Ally McBeal\", which was originally a recurring role over several episodes but was made a main character in the 5th season of the show. A year later, she starred in the action-drama \"Paid in Full\", a film directed by Charles Stone III. Since then, she has appeared in leading roles in films such as \"Malibu's Most Wanted\", \"King's Ransom\" and \"The Honeymooners\".\n\nShe appeared in the film \"Law Abiding Citizen\" in 2009.\nShe had a role in the 2010 Danneel Harris and Arielle Kebbel film \"Mardi Gras\". From its fall 2010 debut until a series overhaul in January 2011, Regina Hall portrayed Deputy District Attorney Evelyn Price on \"\". In addition to being an actress and advocate, Regina Hall announced in November 2010 that she is now writing for ABILITY Magazine.\n\nIn 2012, she portrayed Candace Hall in Steve Harvey's movie \"Think Like a Man\", a romantic comedy based on his book \"Act Like a Lady, Think Like a Man\". Hall reprised her role as Candace Sparks in \"The Best Man Holiday\" in 2013. She believed the characters had evolved from the first film. Hall felt \"The Best Man Holiday\" was different from any sequel she had ever done before since it was not \"immediate\" and it had been fourteen years since the release of the original. Hall felt the first film had \"the joy of the wedding\" and in the sequel \"they come together for the holidays, but it's deeper than that. This one's definitely different, but we still laughed. There was so much laughter behind the scenes.\" Hall joked about how all of the male members of the cast were married while all of the women were not, stating that Morris Chestnut was happily married while walking around \"with his shirt off!\"\n\nHall appeared in the 2014 film \"About Last Night\", costarring Kevin Hart.\nShe and Hart were seen as the film's highlight as they had a \"great dynamic together\" and the two were credited with having the funniest lines in the film. All of the cast was seen as having a \"perfect mix of charisma and likability\". Jessica Herndon of the \"Associated Press\" stated \"Hart and Hall are the best part of this film. They play the couple you know all too well: fiery, able to press one another's buttons and always caught in the makeup to breakup game.\" Negative reviews of the film also praised the pairing of Hall with Kevin Hart. Mick LaSalle of \"The San Francisco Chronicle\" expressed that Hart was \"well paired for Hall, who matches him for comedy.\" At the time of the film's release, both Hall and Hart expressed interest in working on other projects together. \"About Last Night\" was her third ensemble film and Hall reflected that she learned from actors she worked with in ensembles.\n\nHall reprised her role as Candace Hall in \"Think Like a Man Too\". She revealed what members of the cast partied the most in the film shortly before the movie's release. \"Everyone kind of had their fun, I'm not gonna lie. We went out, we gambled. Kevin [Hart] parties. There were parties, and we all went. It was good fun\".\nIn July 2014, it was announced Hall would star in a Lifetime film, entitled \"With This Ring\", with Eve and Jill Scott.\n\nIn the 2015 film \"People Place Things\", Hall had a major role as the love interest of a newly divorced man.\n\nIn 2016, Hall was in \"\". She played the role of Angie, one of the hair stylists, alongside Ice Cube, Common, and Eve\".\n\nIn 2017, Hall co-starred in the comedy film \"Girls Trip\", which became a critical and commercial success.\n\nIn 2018, Hall was part of the ensemble cast of the drama film \"The Hate U Give\", based on the 2017 novel. She also had the lead in \"Support the Girls\", a film directed by Andrew Bujalski. For the latter, she received critical praise, and was nominated for several awards, winning the New York Film Critics Circle Award for Best Actress. She is the first African-American to win the award. In 2019, Hall hosted the 2019 BET Awards.\n\nAround 2004, Hall's mother was diagnosed with scleroderma, a rare autoimmune disease. When not working in Hollywood, Hall can be found volunteering for the care of senior citizens at a Sherman Oaks, California, convalescent home twice a week as well as raising public awareness for the disease. \"When my mom was diagnosed, I didn’t know much about the condition. But Dana Delany, who is an actress and now a friend of mine, put me in touch with Bob Saget. Bob had made a television movie about scleroderma years ago because his sister had died from it. That was back when they didn’t even know what it was. Anyway, Bob had a group called the Scleroderma Research Foundation, so I donated to that and my mother even went to the doctor Bob had suggested, who happened to be over at Johns Hopkins.\"\n\nIn 2010, when she was 40, Hall unsuccessfully tried to become a nun after a bad break-up, having previously wanted to become a nun at the age of 14. She was refused for being too old, as the cut-off age is 39.\n\nIn 2014, she signed as an ambassador for Elizabeth Taylor's White Diamonds. Hall has also voiced her admiration for Taylor. \"I love Elizabeth Taylor. The reason I always was such a fan, I read her \"The New York Times\" bestseller. She was one of the people who I felt equally possessed the same amount of talent as she did beauty. Her work that she did throughout her entire career–I watched her on \"General Hospital\" and what I always loved about her was that she was elegant. Whenever I do red carpet looks one of the things that I like is to always make sure that there’s a sense of elegance and class. And I felt like she always exuded that.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2312198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312198", "title": "Lleida Esportiu", "text": "Lleida Esportiu\n\nClub Lleida Esportiu is a Spanish football team based in Lleida, in the autonomous community of Catalonia. Founded in July 2011 it plays in Segunda División B – Group 3, holding home games at Camp d'Esports, with a capacity of 13,500 seats.\n\nIn mid-May 2011, historic club UE Lleida was liquidated due to a €27.2 million debt. Its berth was auctioned and acquired by an entrepreneur from Lleida, Sisco Pujol, who created the new Lleida Esportiu, which started competing in Segunda División B; the club was also scheduled to take part in the 2011–12 Copa del Rey, in place of Unió Esportiva.\n\nEsportiu played its first friendly game on 6 August 2011, with CF Pobla de Mafumet (2–0). On the 21st, the team played its first official match, losing 1–3 against CF Reus Deportiu.\n\nIn 2013, just in their second season, Lleida Esportiu played for the first time the promotion playoffs to Segunda División. In 2016, their third try in four years, the team lost promotion in the last round against Sevilla Atlético, after a penalty shootout.\n\nOne year later, Lleida Esportiu reached for the first time the round of 16 of the Copa del Rey, after eliminating top level side Real Sociedad, by overcoming a disadvantage of three goals in the aggregate score, in the previous round. In their first appearance in the round of 16, the club was eliminated by Atlético Madrid. \n\nThe club finished 2018-19 season in the 6th place in the Group 3 of Segunda División B.\n\n\n\nNote: this list includes players playing on fully professional top leagues or with international caps.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312206", "title": "Ostrobothnia", "text": "Ostrobothnia\n\nOstrobothnia refers to various areas in Finland:\n\n"}
{"id": "2312217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312217", "title": "Charles Anderson Dana", "text": "Charles Anderson Dana\n\nCharles Anderson Dana (August 8, 1819 – October 17, 1897) was an American journalist, author, and senior government official. He was a top aide to Horace Greeley as the managing editor of the powerful Republican newspaper \"New York Tribune\" until 1862. During the American Civil War, he served as Assistant Secretary of War, playing especially the role of the liaison between the War Department and General Ulysses S. Grant. In 1868 he became the editor and part-owner of the New York Sun. He at first appealed to working class Democrats but after 1890 became a champion of business-oriented conservatism. Dana was an avid art collector of paintings and porcelains and boasted of being in possession of many items not found in several European museums.\n\nDana was born in Hinsdale, New Hampshire on August 8, 1819. He was a descendant of Richard Dana, progenitor of most of the Danas in the United States, who emigrated from England, settled in Cambridge in 1640, and died there about 1695. At the age of twelve, Charles Dana became a clerk in his uncle's general store at Buffalo, until the store failed in 1837. At this time, he began the study of Latin grammar, and prepared himself for college. In 1839 he entered Harvard, but the impairment of his eyesight forced him to leave college in 1841. He also abandoned his intentions to study in Germany and enter the ministry. From September 1841 until March 1846 he lived at Brook Farm, where he was made one of the trustees of the farm, was head waiter when the farm became a Fourierite phalanx, and was in charge of the Phalanx's finances when its buildings were burned in 1846. During his time with Brook Farm, he also wrote for the Transcendental publication, the \"Harbinger\". In 1846, he married widow Eunice MacDaniel.\n\nDana had written for and managed the \"Harbinger\", the Brook Farm publication, devoted to social reform and general literature. Later, beginning 1844, he also wrote for and edited the Boston \"Chronotype\" of Elizur Wright for two years. In 1847 he joined the staff of the \"New York Tribune\", and in 1848 he wrote from Europe letters to it and other papers on the revolutionary movements of that year. In Cologne he visited Karl Marx and Ferdinand Freiligrath. (From 1852 to 1861, Marx was one of the main writers for the New York Daily Tribune).\n\nReturning to the \"Tribune\" in 1849, Dana became a proprietor and its managing editor, and in this capacity actively promoted the anti-slavery cause, seeming to shape the paper's policy at a time when Horace Greeley was undecided and vacillating. However, his writing expressed racist feelings towards blacks on at least one occasion. In 1895, as editor of the New York Sun, he wrote \"we are in the midst of a growing menace,\" the year of eventual black heavy weight champion Jack Johnson's first professional fight. \"The black man is rapidly forging to the front ranks in athletics, especially in the field of fisticuffs. We are in the midst of a black rise against white supremacy.\" The extraordinary influence and circulation attained by the newspaper during the ten years preceding the Civil War was in a degree due to the development of Dana's genius for journalism, reflected not only in the making of the \"Tribune\" as a newspaper, but also in the management of its staff of writers, and in the steadiness of its policy as the leading organ of anti-slavery sentiment.\n\nIn 1861, Dana went to Albany to advance the cause of Greeley as a candidate for the U. S. Senate, and nearly succeeded in nominating him. The caucus was about equally divided between Greeley's friends and those of William M. Evarts, while Ira Harris had a few votes which held the balance of power. At the instigation of Thurlow Weed, the supporters of Evarts went over to Harris.\n\nDuring the first year of the war, the ideas of Greeley and those of Dana in regard to the proper conduct of military operations were somewhat at variance; the board of managers of the \"Tribune\" asked for Dana's resignation in 1862, apparently because of this disagreement and wide temperamental differences between him and Greeley.\n\nWhen Dana left the \"Tribune\", Secretary of War, Edwin Stanton, immediately made him a special \"Investigating Agent of the War Department\" during the American Civil War. In this capacity, Dana discovered frauds committed by quartermasters and contractors. As the eyes of the administration, as Abraham Lincoln called him, Dana spent much time at the front, and sent to War Secretary Edwin Stanton frequent reports concerning the capacity and methods of various generals in the field. In particular, the War Department was concerned about rumors of Ulysses S. Grant's alcoholism. Dana spent considerable time with Grant, becoming a close friend and assuaging administration concerns. Dana reported to Secretary of War Edwin Stanton that he found Grant \"modest, honest, and judicial. . . . 'not an original or brilliant man, but sincere, thoughtful, deep, and gifted with a courage that never faltered.' Although quiet and hard to know, he loved a humorous story and the company of his friends.\" Dana also observed the growing problem of cotton speculators, who were often going beyond established limits into rebel territory with the purpose of trading and often collaborating with the rebels. Dana warned President Lincoln and Stanton that the cotton trading and all related activity needed to be stopped, maintaining that general Grant was in full agreement with his assessment and recommendations. Dana went through the Vicksburg Campaign and was present at the Battle of Chickamauga and the Chattanooga Campaign. He urged placing General Grant in supreme command of all the armies in the field, which happened in March 1864. After returning to Washington Dana received a telegram from assistant Secretary of War H.P. Watson, instructing him to go to Washington to pursue another investigation, and was received by Stanton, who offered him the position of Assistant Secretary of War, which he accepted. It was reported in the New York papers the next morning. Dana held this position from 1863 to 1865. With the likely exception of John Rawlins, Dana had a greater influence over Grant's military career than any other political or military man.\n\nIn 1865–1866, Dana conducted the newly established and unsuccessful Chicago \"Republican,\" when the paper was owned by Jacob Bunn, and published by Alonzo Mack. He became the editor and part-owner of \"The Sun (New York)\" in 1868, and remained in control of it until his death. Upon taking control over the organization, he announced his credo:\n\nIt will study condensation, clearness, point, and will endeavor to present its daily photograph of the whole world's doings in the most luminous and lively manner.\n\nUnder Dana's control, \"The Sun\" opposed the impeachment of President Andrew Johnson; it supported Grant for the presidency in 1868; it was a sharp critic of Grant as president; and in 1872 took part in the Liberal Republican revolt and urged Greeley's nomination.\n\nDana made the \"Sun\" a Democratic newspaper, independent and outspoken in the expression of its opinions respecting the affairs of either party. His criticisms of civil maladministration during General Grant's terms as president led to a notable attempt on the part of that administration, in July 1873, to take him from New York on a charge of libel, to be tried without a jury in a Washington police court. Application was made to the United States District Court in New York for a warrant of removal, but in a memorable decision Judge Blatchford, later a justice of the Supreme Court of the United States, refused the warrant, holding the proposed form of trial to be unconstitutional. Perhaps to a greater extent than in the case of any other conspicuous journalist, Dana's personality was identified in the public mind with the newspaper that he edited.\n\nIn 1876, the \"Sun\" favored Samuel J. Tilden, the Democratic candidate for the presidency, opposed the Electoral Commission, and continually referred to Rutherford B. Hayes as the \"fraud president\".\nIn 1884 it supported Benjamin Butler, the candidate of Greenback-Labor and Anti-Monopolist parties, for the presidency, and opposed James G. Blaine (Republican) and even more bitterly Grover Cleveland (Democrat). Circulation peaked about 150,000, and the advent of Joseph Pulitzer and the \"New York World\" cut deeply into the \"Sun's\" circulation. Dana was a very old-fashioned publisher who distrusted the Linotype and relied not on advertising but on the two-cent cover price for his funding.\n\nIn 1888 it supported Cleveland and opposed Benjamin Harrison, although it had bitterly criticized Cleveland's first administration, and was to criticize nearly every detail of his second, with the exception of Federal interference in the Pullman strike of 1894; and in 1896, on the free silver issue, it opposed William Jennings Bryan, the Democratic candidate for the presidency. In a word, the \"Sun\" had abandoned its original working-class clientele and was now a staunch supporter of the conservative business community.\n\nDana's literary style came to be the style of \"The Sun\"—simple, strong, clear, boiled down. He recorded no theories of journalism other than those of common sense and human interest. He was impatient of prolixity, cant, and the conventional standards of news importance. Three of his lectures on journalism were published in 1895 as the \"Art of Newspaper Making\".\n\nWith George Ripley he edited \"The New American Cyclopaedia\" (1857–1863), reissued as the \"American Cyclopaedia\" in 1873-1876.\n\nDana had an interest in literature. His first book was a volume of stories translated from German, entitled \"The Black Aunt\" (New York and Leipzig, 1848). In 1857, he edited an anthology, \"The Household Book of Poetry\". His translation from German of \"Nutcracker and Sugardolly: A Fairy Tale\" was published in 1856 by the Philadelphia publisher C.G. Henderson & Co. In addition to translating German, Dana could read the Romance and Scandinavian languages. With Rossiter Johnson, he edited, \"Fifty Perfect Poems\" (New York, 1883).\n\nDana edited \"A Campaign Life of U. S. Grant\", published over his name and that of General James H. Wilson in 1868. His \"Recollections of the Civil War\" and \"Eastern Journeys, Some Notes of Travel in Russia, in the Caucasus, and to Jerusalem\" were published in 1898.\n\nEarly in his journalism career, 1849, he wrote a series of newspaper articles in defense of anarchist philosopher Pierre-Joseph Proudhon and his mutual banking ideas. They were published in collected form in 1896 as \"Proudhon and His Bank of the People\" by Benjamin Tucker, who did so partly to expose Dana's radical past as Dana had late in life become quite conservative, editorializing against radicals, \"reds\", and the free silver movement. This book remains in print today through a Charles H. Kerr Company Publishers edition with an introduction by Paul Avrich.\n\nDana was an art connoisseur. In 1880 he built a large residence in New York City on the corner of Madison Avenue and Sixtieth Street and furnished it with paintings, tapestries, and Chinese porcelains, giving his greatest attention to his porcelains. He devoted much time and historical study in the these areas of art throughout his life, boasting that, \"They are not in the British Museum; they are not in the Louvre; and they are conspicuously absent at Dresden.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312223", "title": "Scarlet Spider (comic book)", "text": "Scarlet Spider (comic book)\n\nScarlet Spider is the title of two comic book series published by Marvel Comics about two clones of Spider-Man while they functioned as the current version of the Scarlet Spider. The first volume lasted two issues and was published in 1995. The second volume started publishing in January 2012 and ended in December 2013 with issue 25 after a total of 26 issues, because there was a special Marvel Point One issue published between issues 12 and 13.\n\nThe first volume starred Ben Reilly as the Scarlet Spider. It was published for two issues in November and December 1995. The book was a direct continuation, in terms of creative teams and story lines, of the \"\" series which the title temporarily replaced for two months between issues 63 and 64.\n\nIt was one of four briefly published books which featured the character. The others were \"The Amazing Scarlet Spider\", \"The Spectacular Scarlet Spider\", and \"Web of Scarlet Spider\".\n\nThe series began when Peter Parker gave up being Spider-Man to retire with his pregnant wife Mary Jane, and the Scarlet Spider took on his duties. The title returned to its old name and numbering when Ben Reilly took on the Spider-Man name.\n\nThe writer of the two issues was Howard Mackie and the pencillers were Gil Kane and John Romita Jr.\n\nOn July 22, 2011, during the San Diego Comic-Con, Marvel released an image to the audience depicting a burnt sweater of the original Scarlet Spider. This led many readers to assume that Ben Reilly would be returning and taking on the mantle of Scarlet Spider once again. However, through introduction of the Marvel Now event, Marvel Point One showed readers that Kaine Parker would be the main character in the new Scarlet Spider series.\n\nRyan Stegman, the series' penciller states that volume 2 is set to be of a darker tone than \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" series. Stegman also states that the new Scarlet Spider is meant to be a grittier and scarier version of the original Spider-Man. The writer of the series, Christopher Yost, states that Kaine would be moved to Houston, Texas due to characters in New York knowing that he was a villain in his former life, and that Kaine needed a fresh start. Yost also states that due to the brand new location of Houston in a Spider-Man comic book, several new villains would be introduced in the Marvel world as well as a brand new supporting cast. Yost stated that the Scarlet Spider series would be a story about a former super-villain who is finding himself and is on the pursuit of a journey of self-discovery.\n\nThe second volume stars Peter Parker's first genetic clone, Kaine as the Scarlet Spider. After helping to stop Spider-Island, Kaine has been cured of his clonal degeneration. While fleeing to Mexico he stops in Houston to steal money from criminals, but ends up becoming the superhero, Scarlet Spider.\n\nThe first issue sold over 50,000 copies, but sales dropped to an average of about 22,000 copies being sold per issue by July 2013. The series introduces several new characters in the Marvel world, such as Aracely Penalba (the demigod superhero known as Hummingbird), Dr. Donald Meland and his husband Wally Layton. The character Annabelle Adams is also introduced in the Marvel world as a love interest for Kaine. The characters play pivotal roles in the growth of Kaine as a superhero.\n\nOn July 6, 2012 Marvel teased readers with the submission of an article displaying a logo titled Minimum Carnage, and that more information would be released soon. The 2012 San Diego Comic-Con revealed that the Scarlet Spider series along with the Venom series, would be collaborating for the Marvel event, Minimum Carnage.\n\nOn May 10, 2013, Christopher Yost revealed his plans of Scarlet Spider and the Superior Spider-Man meeting for the first time in \"Superior Spider-Man Team-Up\" issue #2, in a Marvel arc titled 'Sibling Rivalry'. Scarlet Spider's and Superior Spider-Man's meeting is said to collaborate with the Scarlet Spider and Superior Spider-Man Team Up series'.\n\nFollowing the events of the 2016 Spider-Man event The Clone Conspiracy, Ben Reilly was brought back after a twenty year absence, and a new Scarlet Spider title written by Peter David was launched. The title ran for 25 issues before folding in late 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312225", "title": "George A. Cooper", "text": "George A. Cooper\n\nGeorge Alphonsus Cooper (7 March 1925 – 16 November 2018) was an English actor and voice artist. He died in November 2018 at the age of 93.\n\nCooper was born in Leeds, the son of William and Eleanor (née Dobson) Cooper. His father worked on the railways as a train guard. The younger Cooper began to train as an electrical engineer, but enlisted in the Royal Artillery during the Second World War, acting with the Royal Artillery Depot Players in India.\n\nAfter a short period as a draughtsman he joined Theatre Workshop, then based in Manchester. Joan Littlewood's company, also based in Glasgow for a time, then concentrated on performing its productions on tour. The company's permanent base became London's Theatre Royal Stratford East in 1953, the opening production being \"Twelfth Night\" with Cooper as Malvolio and Harry H. Corbett as Sir Andrew Aguecheek. Both men were often cast in antagonist roles in Theatre Workshop productions during the next few years. Cooper left the company in 1955. Cooper played Geoffrey Fisher, the stern father of the eponymous antihero \"Billy Liar\", in the original West End stage production in 1960. His wife, Shirley Jones (married 1955), who worked as a Theatre Workshop costume assistant, did not like his absences during the evenings, and Cooper himself found eight performances of \"Billy Liar\" a week to be a strain. Increasingly he turned to television for work.\n\nHe had a recurring role in \"Coronation Street\" as Willie Piggott, a dubious businessman, between 1964 and 1971. One of his other regular roles was as the caretaker Mr. Griffiths in the long-running children's TV series \"Grange Hill\". He returned to the role of Geoffrey Fisher in the sitcom version of \"Billy Liar\" (1973–74).\n\nAmong Cooper's other television credits are \"Danger Man\", \"Z-Cars\", \"Dixon of Dock Green\", \"No Hiding Place\", \"Doctor Who\" (in the serial \"The Smugglers\"), \"Softly, Softly\", \"The Avengers\", \"The Saint\", \"Randall and Hopkirk (Deceased)\", \"The Troubleshooters\", \"Steptoe and Son\", \"A Family at War\", \"Doomwatch\", \"Public Eye\", \"Budgie\", \"Bless This House\", \"Sykes\", \"Rising Damp\", \"The New Avengers\", \"Some Mothers Do 'Ave 'Em\", \"All Creatures Great and Small\", \"Juliet Bravo\", \"When the Boat Comes In\", \"Terry and June\", \"Taggart\", \"Casualty\" and \"Heartbeat\".\n\nCooper had roles in many films including: \"Violent Playground\" (1958), \"Hell Is a City\" (1960), \"The Cracksman\" (1963), \"Nightmare\" (1964), \"Dracula Has Risen from the Grave\" (1968) with Christopher Lee and the film version of \"Bless This House\" (1972) with Sid James.\n"}
{"id": "2312230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312230", "title": "Tarnov", "text": "Tarnov\n\nTarnov can be:\n"}
{"id": "2312236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312236", "title": "Joey Marella", "text": "Joey Marella\n\nJoseph Anthony Marella (February 28, 1963 – July 4, 1994) was an American professional wrestling referee for the World Wrestling Federation and the adopted son of former wrestler and then WWF announcer Gorilla Monsoon (Robert Marella) from Willingboro Township, New Jersey.\n\nJoey Marella joined the World Wrestling Federation in 1983, and moved through the ranks until he was often assigned to referee feature promotion matches. In 1987, he served as the referee for the much-hyped match between Hulk Hogan and André the Giant at WrestleMania III as well as their rematch in 1988 at Wrestlemania IV. Marella was also the official for the 1992 SummerSlam main event of Bret Hart vs. Davey Boy Smith at London's famous Wembley Stadium. Marella was briefly suspended for a substance abuse problem in 1993 and then later re-hired. He was also part of the controversy at the 1994 Royal Rumble match in which he and former WWF referee Earl Hebner couldn't decide between Lex Luger and Bret Hart as to who had won the match.\n\nDuring Marella's career as a WWF referee, while becoming one of the Federation's most respected in-ring officials, he also became the butt of jokes for heel based commentators especially when they were teamed with Marella's father Gorilla Monsoon with Monsoon regularly using one of his catch phrases \"Will you stop\" (mostly said to either Jesse \"The Body\" Ventura or Bobby \"The Brain\" Heenan) when they would criticize his performance. This was actually an inside joke, as the fact that Monsoon and Marella were actually father and son was not well known by fans until after Marella had died.\n\nMarella also appeared in the 1989 WWF produced movie \"No Holds Barred\" as a referee during a wrestling match.\n\nHe died on July 4, 1994, after he fell asleep at the wheel and crashed while driving home on the New Jersey Turnpike after a night of refereeing WWF matches in Ocean City, Maryland. Bruno Lauer, better known by his ring name Harvey Wippleman, was with him at the time and was critically injured. Lauer was wearing a seatbelt, while Marella was not.\n\nMarella is buried next to his father Gorilla Monsoon (1937-1999) at Lakeview Memorial Park in Cinnaminson, New Jersey. Images of a baseball player and a golfer were placed on his headstone due to his love of the two sports.\n\nAs a tribute, WWE ring announcer Tony Chimel named his son after Marella. Marella's sister Valerie also named a son after her brother.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312240", "title": "Kenneth Kendall", "text": "Kenneth Kendall\n\nKenneth Kendall (7 August 1924 – 14 December 2012) was a British broadcaster. He worked for many years as a newsreader for the BBC, where he was a contemporary of fellow newsreaders Richard Baker and Robert Dougall. He is also remembered as the host of the Channel 4 game show \"Treasure Hunt\", which ran between 1982 and 1989, as well as the host of \"The World Tonight\" in the 1968 science fiction film \"\".\n\nKendall was born in India where his father, Frederic William Kendall (d. 30 May 1945), worked. He was brought up in Cornwall. Kendall was educated at Felsted School in Essex, England. He read Modern Languages at Corpus Christi College, Oxford, for one year before being called up to the British Army.\n\nKendall joined the Coldstream Guards where he was commissioned as a lieutenant. He arrived in Normandy ten days after D Day but was wounded about a month later. In 1945, he was among 100,000 British military personnel sent to Palestine. In 1946 he was demobilised from the Guards as a captain.\n\nAfter leaving the army, Kendall returned to Oxford to complete his Modern Language degree. He hoped to join the Foreign Office but instead joined the BBC in 1948 as a radio newsreader. In 1954 he transferred to television. Although he was not the first newsreader on BBC television, Kendall was the first to appear in front of a camera reading the news in 1955. As he was employed on a freelance basis by the BBC, he also worked as an actor for a repertory company based in Crewe, and briefly at the menswear retailer Austin Reed in Regent Street, where he met actor John Inman and offered him a job in the Crewe theatre company.\n\nKendall became known for his elegant dress sense and was voted best-dressed newsreader by \"Style International\" and No.1 newscaster by \"Daily Mirror\" readers in 1979. He left the BBC in 1961, and from 1961 to 1969 was a freelance newsreader, working occasionally for ITN and presenting Southern Television's \"Day By Day\". He appeared as himself in the \"Adam Adamant\" episode \"The Doomsday Plan\", in which he is kidnapped and impersonated. He also appeared in the \"Doctor Who\" serial \"The War Machines\".\n\nHe rejoined the BBC in 1969 and finally retired from news reading on 23 December 1981. Kendall's retirement allowed him to work on the popular Channel Four programme \"Treasure Hunt\" throughout its first run (1982–1989), which featured Anneka Rice as a \"skyrunner\". He also presented the television programme \"Songs of Praise\".\n\nSoon after retirement from news reading, Kendall lent his voice to the BBC Micro as part of Acorn Computers' hardware speech synthesis system.\n\nIn 2010 he took part in BBC's series \"The Young Ones\" in which six well-known people in their 70s and 80s attempt to overcome some of the problems of ageing by harking back to the 1970s.\n\nKendall lived in Cowes on the Isle of Wight with his partner Mark Fear, whom he had been with since 1989. Fear was the owner of a marine art gallery and a beekeeper. The couple entered into a civil partnership in 2006.\n\nKendall died on 14 December 2012, following a stroke a few weeks previously. On 29 April 2013, his partner Mark Fear was found hanged. An inquest concluded that he had committed suicide because he was \"overcome by grief\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312252", "title": "Stirling, South Australia", "text": "Stirling, South Australia\n\nStirling is a town in the Adelaide Hills, South Australia, approximately 16 km from the Adelaide city centre. It is administered by the Adelaide Hills Council. Its population is about 2500, though the town has largely merged with neighbouring townships such as Crafers and Aldgate. Other nearby towns are Heathfield and Bridgewater. Of those five, Stirling has by far the largest commercial strip, with the greatest number and widest variety of shops, the only police station, and the only banks.\nStirling East, a similar sized area to its east (towards Aldgate) is home to several schools.\n\nStirling is named after Edward Stirling. He was the illegitimate son of Archibald Stirling, a former slaveholder in the British West Indies, and a Creole woman. He was able to travel to South Australia because of a financial gift from his father who had been freshly compensated for his slaves on the emancipation of slavery.\n\nFounded in 1888, Stirling grew rapidly as a result of the expansion of apple growing and market gardening to satisfy the demand of the expanding city of Adelaide, whose centre is only 15 kilometres from Stirling. It also developed as a residential address for Englishmen who could afford it, to escape Adelaide's hot summers. As a result, many historic, grand mansions can be found in the area. Today, farming has declined as more of the region has been urbanised, with many Stirling residents commuting to Adelaide daily.\n\nMany deciduous trees, particularly the maple, elm, oak and ash trees, have been imported from Europe and North America. These trees flourish in Stirling's wet and mild to cool climate and are a popular tourist attraction in the autumn months (April–May), bringing rich and vibrant autumn leaf colour to the town. This activity is known as \"leaf peeping\". Some Australian cities are too warm (even in the autumn and winter months) to accommodate and produce maple trees, but some temperate regions along the eastern coast and towns at higher altitudes flourish in colour during autumn, rivalling those in North America, Europe and Japan.\n\nOther tourist sites include the nearby Belair National Park and Cleland Conservation Park.\n\nStirling has a warm-summer Mediterranean climate (Köppen climate classification: \"Csb\"). Owing to its location near Mount Lofty, Stirling is the wettest place in South Australia, receiving an average of 1,107 millimetres (43.6 inches) of rain per year—more than twice the average of Adelaide. Between May and August, the average monthly rainfall is as high as 155 millimetres (over 6 inches), and in June 1916, over 450 millimetres fell. Mean summer temperatures are about 5 °C (9 °F) lower than in Adelaide, which may explain why Stirling was recommended as a desirable residence for English migrants and Adelaide's high society in the 20th century. Winters are distinctly cool particularly compared to Adelaide, with an average minimum of 4 °C (39 °F) and an average maximum of 11 °C (52 °F).\n\nThe Australian Bureau of Meteorology stopped the collection of weather data at Stirling from the 1980s onward. Weather recording instruments were removed from the grounds of Australia Post's Stirling office following a commercial dispute between these two Australian government organisations.\n\nStirling is located in the state electorate of Heysen and in the federal Division of Mayo. The local council is the Adelaide Hills Council (formerly Stirling Council) in the Mt Lofty and Manoah wards.\n\nA prominent landmark in Stirling is the historical Stirling Theatre, home to the Hills Musical Company, Stirling Players and Hills Youth Theatre. Stirling also has a strong affinity with books and has been referred to as South Australia's 'Book Village'. This relates to the close proximity of varied book venues Chapter Two Books, Matilda Bookshop, The Hut Book Shed and the Coventry Memorial Library.\n\nStirling has traditionally had a strong community of artists. One of the most notable was abstract artist, Colin Russell Gardiner who was a former electrician and held many exhibitions in the 1970's and 1980's.\n\nThree of Gardiner's works hang in the Fairview Art Collection of Thomas Murrell of Subiaco, Perth.\n\nThe Stirling community is protected from fire, road crash and hazardous materials by the Stirling Country Fire Service Volunteers.\nIn 2006, the Adelaide Hills Council stepped up efforts to relocate the station to Crafers, against the wants of the volunteers. The council proposed the move in order to sell the land currently inhabited by the CFS station on Avenue Road, to fund a new library. However, in mid-2006 the council elected to sell the land the fire station was on to SAFECOM (South Australian Fire and Emergency Services Commission), which owns all Fire Service assets. The new library started construction anyway in early 2007, and it was completed the following year.\n\nStirling (Main Street) is very well serviced by public transport, with a 30min off-peak service to the city and nearby Mount Barker (routes and ). During peak it is also service by routes and . Route operates nights and weekends only. For the east of Stirling, route operates to and from the city and route operates to Crafers. Route also links Stirling to Carey Gully. For the West of Stirling (heading out towards Heathfield) routes and operate via Avenue Road and Longwood Road, at peak times only with very limited interpeak services.\n"}
{"id": "2312256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312256", "title": "Kjetil Wæhler", "text": "Kjetil Wæhler\n\nKjetil Wæhler (born 16 March 1976 in Oslo) is a Norwegian footballer who plays as a centre back.\n\nWæhler is currently without a club.\n\nAs of December 2013, Kjetil Wæhler has been capped 32 times for Norway, scoring one goal. He made his debut against Switzerland on 17 August 2005. \nHis first, and so far only, international goal came against South Africa, in a friendly match on 10 October 2009, a game Norway won 1–0.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312257", "title": "John Henry Blunt", "text": "John Henry Blunt\n\nJohn Henry Blunt (25 August 1823 in Chelsea – 11 April 1884 in London) was an English divine.\n\nBefore going to the University College, Durham in 1850, he was for some years engaged in business as a manufacturing chemist. He was ordained in 1852 and took his M.A. degree in 1855, publishing in the same year a work on \"The Atonement\". He held in succession several preferments, among them the vicarage of Kennington near Oxford (1868), which he vacated in 1873 for the crown living of Beverston in Gloucestershire.\n\nIn June 1882, his university made him a doctor of divinity. He died rather suddenly in London on 11 April 1884 (Good Friday), and was buried in Battersea cemetery.\n\nHe became a voluminous writer in the fields of theology and ecclesiastical history, and had published among other works an annotated edition of the \"Prayer Book\" (1867), a \"History of the English Reformation\" (1868), a \"Book of Church Law\" (1872), as well as a \"Dictionary of Doctrinal and Historical Theology\" (1870). The continuation of these labors was seen in a \"Dictionary of Sects and Heresies\" (1874), an \"Annotated Bible\" (3 vols., 1878–1879), and a \"Cyclopaedia of Religion\" (1884).\n\n"}
{"id": "2312258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312258", "title": "Unified EFI Forum", "text": "Unified EFI Forum\n\nThe Unified Extensible Firmware Interface Forum or UEFI Forum is an alliance between several leading technology companies to modernize the booting process. The board of directors includes representatives from thirteen \"Promoter\" companies: AMD, American Megatrends, ARM, Apple, Dell, Hewlett Packard Enterprise, HP Inc., IBM, Insyde Software, Intel, Lenovo, Microsoft, and Phoenix Technologies.\n\nThe non-profit corporation has assumed responsibility for the management and promotion of the Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) specification, a bootloader and runtime interface between platform firmware and an operating system. The original EFI specification was developed by Intel and was used as the starting point from which the UEFI version(s) were developed. The goal of the organization is to replace the aging PC BIOS.\n\nIn addition to the UEFI specification, the forum is responsible for a UEFI Platform Initialization (PI) specification, which addresses the firmware internal architecture as well as firmware-to-hardware interfaces. The forum also is responsible for Self-Certification Test suites, which defines conformance to the specifications that it defines.\n\nIn October 2013, the Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) assets have also been transferred into the forum. The forum is responsible for the management and promotion of future ACPI specifications, which provides static tables at boot time and dynamic control methods as the primary runtime interfaces between the OS and system firmware for system configuration, power management and RAS (Reliability, Availability and Supportability) features. ACPI \"Revision 5.0\" is used as the starting point from which future ACPI version(s) will be developed.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312270", "title": "List of Alfalfa Club members", "text": "List of Alfalfa Club members\n\nThe Alfalfa Club, founded in 1913, is an exclusive social organization, based in Washington, D.C., in the United States. The Club's only function is the holding of an annual banquet in honor of the birthday of Civil War Confederate General Robert E. Lee. Its members are composed mostly of American politicians and influential members of the business community, and have included several Presidents of the United States.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312272", "title": "Finland Proper (disambiguation)", "text": "Finland Proper (disambiguation)\n\nFinland Proper is a province in south-western Finland, the city of Turku being the capital.\n\nFinland Proper may also refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2312277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312277", "title": "Vance Astro", "text": "Vance Astro\n\nVance Astro, born Vance Astrovik and going by the code name Major Victory, is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character is usually depicted as being from the Earth-691 timeline of the Marvel Universe.\n\nAstro first appeared in January 1969 as a founding member of the Guardians of the Galaxy in the partial reprint title \"Marvel Super-Heroes\" with issue #18.\n\nVance Astro is a mutant who possesses a psychokinetic ability, limited to projecting concussive blasts.\n\nVance Astro first appeared as a founding member of the Guardians of the Galaxy. According to Roy Thomas, all of the Guardians of the Galaxy were created in a conference between Arnold Drake and Stan Lee, but it remains uncertain whether each individual character was created by Drake, Lee, or both. The Guardians of the Galaxy debuted in the partial reprint title \"Marvel Super-Heroes\" with issue #18 (Jan. 1969), written by Drake and penciled by Gene Colan. After five years' absence, he was revived in several Marvel titles: \"Marvel Two-In-One\" #4-5 (July-Sept. 1974), \"Giant Size Defenders\" #5, and \"Defenders\" #26-29 (July-Nov. 1975). In each case, other heroes such as Captain America, the Thing, and the Defenders aid Astro and the Guardians against the alien Badoon. The first story established that if Vance Astro's containment suit were breached, he would age 1,000 years in a second. This drew numerous queries from readers, and the letters page in \"Marvel Two-in-One\" #7 responded by stating that Vance feeds and defecates intravenously. The Guardians were also featured in \"Marvel Presents\" #3-12 (Feb. 1976 - Aug. 1977).\n\nThis was followed by a series of appearances in \"Thor Annual\" #6 (1977), \"The Avengers\" #167-177 (Jan.-Nov. 1978) and #181 (March 1979), \"Marvel Team-Up\" #86 (Oct. 1979), and \"Marvel Two-in-One\" #69 (Nov. 1980). \"Marvel Two-in-One\" #69 effectively split Vance Astro into two characters, from alternate timelines: Vance Astro/Major Victory and Vance Astrovik/Marvel Boy.\n\nIn the 1990s Astro starred in \"Guardians of the Galaxy\", which ran for 62 issues. It was initially written and illustrated by Jim Valentino. Valentino still found Vance's containment suit a problem: \n\nMichael Gallagher commenced writing the title from issue #29 (Oct. 1992) until cancellation in July 1995.\n\nBeginning with the second issue (June 2008) of \"Guardians of the Galaxy\" vol. 2, Astro joined a different team with the same name. He remained a member through the series' cancellation with issue 25 (April 2010), but the team disbanded after \"The Thanos Imperative\" (Dec 2010).\n\nVance Astro appeared along with the rest of the original Guardians of the Galaxy team in the 2014 series \"Guardians 3000\". Writer Dan Abnett described him as \"the inspirational spirit\" of the team.\n\nVance Astrovik was born in Saugerties, New York, the only son of a small-town butcher Arnold Astrovik and his wife Norma. Going into the U.S. Air Force at the age of 18, Astrovik (who changed his name to Astro when he was 21) became the youngest man to be accepted into the astronaut training program several years later. In 1988, Astro volunteered for the first manned interstellar mission ever conducted by the United States, \"Project: Starjump\".\n\nHis ship, \"Odysseus I\", was not equipped for faster-than-light speed; hence the journey to Earth's nearest interstellar neighbor, a planet in the Alpha Centauri system, would take about 10 centuries. To protect him from aging, Astro was covered with a skin-preserving copper alloy (which was upgraded with adamantium in the Guardians of the Galaxy series) body-suit, and his blood was transfused with a kind of preservative fluid. Astro was launched into space from the Houston Airport in the fall of 1988.\n\nWhile on his way to Alpha Centauri, the ship automatically awoke him from his suspended animation in order for him to perform routine course adjustments. During the periods he was awake, sometimes for a year in duration, Astro eventually went insane from loneliness on several occasions, returning to a semblance of normality only after the ship automatically put him back in suspended animation again. During his long periods of sustained dream-state activities, Astro's latent psionic powers emerged. By the time he arrived on Centauri IV almost a thousand years later, he had full control over his psychokinetic abilities.\n\nUpon arrival, Astro learned that other humans had arrived at Centauri IV centuries earlier, having developed a faster-than-light drive since the time he left. Although they were unable to intercept his flight, the Centaurian people welcomed him as a hero. Upset at having sacrificed his life on Earth for no purpose, Astro was determined to carry out the mission to categorize the plant life he was assigned a millennium ago, even though it would now be superfluous. While engaged in a geophysical survey, he encountered Yondu, one of the humanoid natives of the planet, who attacked him, but he stopped it. He kept this secret, as it was illegal for this species to attack a colonist. When the alien Badoon launched an attack on Centauri IV, annihilating the human colony and methodically eradicating the natives, Astro and Yondu attempted to escape in Astro's ship. They were overtaken and transported to Earth, where the Badoon Leader used a device to look through Astro's mind and see his origin. There they escaped in the year 3007 A.D. and joined with two other survivors of Badoon's massacre, the last Jovian Charlie-27 and the last Plutonian Martinex to form the Guardians of the Galaxy, with himself as the leader. After liberating Earth, the Guardians set out on a random course across the galaxy, in the hopes of safeguarding freedom everywhere, and fight the Badoon conquest of Earth's solar system. It is later revealed Starhawk manipulated events to bring them together.\n\nEight years later, Astro and the Guardians of the Galaxy time-traveled to the 20th Century, and met the Defenders. The Guardians returned to 3015 A.D. with Starhawk and the Defenders to defeat a new Badoon invasion force.\n\nLater, Astro and the Guardians teamed with the time-traveling Thor. They battled Korvac and his Minions of Menace. Astro then traveled to the present alongside his fellow Guardians, and assisted the Avengers in battle against Korvac.\n\nYears later, on a trip to the present-day Marvel Universe, Astro encountered his younger self and convinced him not to join the USAF. He also accidentally awoke the younger Vance's telekinetic powers, ensuring the divergence. The younger Vance Astrovik would later join the New Warriors, first as Marvel Boy, then as Justice, and eventually became a member of the Avengers for a short time. (Because all of the Guardians of the Galaxy are honorary Avengers, Vance holds the distinction of being the only Avenger to appear twice in the roster—as himself, and as Justice.)\n\nAfter returning to his own time, Astro became involved with his teammate Aleta after she was freed from her physical merger with her ex-husband Starhawk. Astro went on a quest to find the lost shield of Captain America. He battled Taserface and the Stark during the quest, and defeated the Stark. Then, after retrieving Captain America's shield, he was critically injured in a battle with a gang that based themselves on the Punisher. Vance was healed by Krugarr, Doctor Strange's former apprentice and the current Sorcerer Supreme, and was freed from his containment suit. He then adopted a costume similar to that of Captain America to go with the shield and took the name Major Victory.\n\nShortly thereafter, Krugarr's enchantment was removed, and Vance began to age rapidly. He was saved by a symbiotic costume, seemingly of the same species as Venom. However, it was later determined that it was not actually a life form, but engineered to respond to the wearer's biological state.\n\nVance is discovered encased in ice on the asteroid Hydronis by the new Guardians of the Galaxy team leader Star-Lord. Astro confirms his identity to the band of aliens and later converses with Mantis at the Guardians' home base, Knowhere. Mantis confirms to Star-Lord that Astro has been temporally displaced. The Guardians are then attacked by the Cardinals of the Universal Church of Truth.\n\nVance later joins this incarnation of the Guardians of the Galaxy and helps to rescue Peter Quill from Blastaar. He later joins Rocket Raccoon's team on their mission to stop the War of Kings. After Adam Warlock loses control and becomes Magus, Vance is killed when his shield is thrown back at him by Magus, opening his suit up and causing him to age rapidly. However, he is later seen to be alive, but in suspended animation and a prisoner of the Magus, along with Mantis, Phyla-Vell, Cosmo and Gamora. He later breaks free with the other Guardians (excluding Phyla-Vell - apparently slain by the revived Thanos), reuniting with the other half of the team. After Thanos is incapacitated by Star-Lord, Major Victory and all the other Guardians reunite in Knowhere. It's also revealed, during a council of the Guardians of All Galaxies - that reunites the Guardians of the whole Multiverse - that the Major Victory currently in Earth 616 is a time displaced one from an alternate, unidentified dimension. During this council three other versions of Major Victory appear: one identical to the Earth-616 one with the original uniform, another with the symbiotic outfit of 1994-1995 and finally another with the pre-symbiotic costume appearance and the Captain America-themed uniform.\n\nVance later worked with a time-displaced Namorita to safeguard a mission into the 'Cancerverse', a realm threatening the known universe.\n\nVance Astro is a mutant who possesses the psionic ability of psychokinesis, the ability to affect matter with his mind. For some reason, Vance's psionic powers can only be manifested as \"psyche-blasts\", focused psychokinetic blasts of explosive concussive force, which can disrupt the synapses in the minds of any living being they strike. He can focus the energy at will, creating anything from a narrow beam to a 360 degree expanding sphere of force. Vance has eventually shown some marginal improvement of the control of his psychokinesis, such as generating small psionic pulses to slow the descent of falling people, or gentle psychic bursts to move objects forwards or backwards (all without inflicting any damage on the people or objects). Vance can only employ his psionic powers at maximum exertion for about a half-hour before suffering mental fatigue and a need to replenish his store of psionic energy. He was once forced to wear a copper alloy bodysuit to prevent his body from decaying on exposure to air. During the time when he carried Captain America's shield in combat, he would use his power to propel the shield and manipulate its flight path, simulating the Captain's use of the shield as a throwing weapon. All of these abilities were augmented by a transfusion of Hollywood's (a 1,000-year-old Simon Williams) ionically-enhanced blood. Vance's dependency on his suit was cured by a spell by Krugarr and the blood transfusion from Hollywood.\n\nAstro is an above average athlete and an excellent hand-to-hand combatant, having received unarmed combat training in the U.S. Air Force circa 20th Century. Vance is also an excellent starship pilot and astronaut, and a superb leader and strategist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312278", "title": "Richard Tomkins", "text": "Richard Tomkins\n\nRichard Tomkins, born 4 September 1952, was a senior writer and commentator on the staff of the Financial Times. He took early retirement in 2009, after 25 years on the newspaper.\n\nRichard Tomkins attended King Edward's School in Birmingham. Before joining the Financial Times, he spent five years in the Civil Service, three of them as assistant private secretary to a government minister; left to travel the world; and served a three-year apprenticeship with his local newspaper, the Walsall Observer.\n\nAt the Financial Times, Tomkins was a columnist, writing a weekly column on consumer culture, and also wrote occasional editorial comments, known as leaders. From 1993 to 1999, he was a member of the FT's New York bureau at a time when the newspaper was undertaking a rapid expansion in the US.\n\nDuring his years at the Financial Times, Tomkins won all three of what were then the top awards in British journalism. In 1991, with other members of a reporting team at the FT, he was jointly named Reporter of the Year in the British Press Awards for his part in investigating the collapse of the Bank of Credit and Commerce International. In 2003 he was named Business Journalist of the Year in the Business Journalist of the Year Awards. In 2007, he was awarded the £10,000 David Watt Prize for outstanding political journalism for a feature on globalisation and its effects on the living standards of employees in the west.\n\nIn his last years on the Financial Times, Tomkins was chief feature writer, writing mainly for the FT Magazine.\n"}
{"id": "2312280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312280", "title": "Satellite finder", "text": "Satellite finder\n\nA satellite finder (or sat finder) is a satellite signal meter used to accurately point satellite dishes at communications satellites in geostationary orbit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312281", "title": "Academic clinical trial", "text": "Academic clinical trial\n\nAn academic clinical trial is a clinical trial not funded by pharmaceutical or company for commercial ends but by public-good agencies (usually universities or medical trusts) to advance medicine. These trials are a valuable component of the health care system; they benefit patients and help determine the safety and efficacy of drugs and devices, and play an important role in the checks and balances that regular commercially oriented clinical trials.\n\nA typical area of academic clinical trials is the advancement and optimization of already existing therapies. Thus, academic clinical trials may for instance test how a combination of registered drugs may improve treatment outcomes; or they may apply registered treatments in additional, less frequent indications. Such research questions are not a primary focus of for-profit companies, and thus these trials are typically initiated by individual investigators or academic research organizations. \n\nThere are many different organizations which have an interest in academic clinical trials and facilitate or take part in their conduct. These organizations include:\n\nAcademic clinical trials are run at academic sites, such as medical schools, academic hospitals, and universities; and non-academic sites which may be managed by so-called site management organizations (SMOs). Site management organizations are for-profit organizations which enlist and manage the physician practice sites that actually recruit and follow patients enrolled in clinical trials. In some cases, academic members participate in clinical trials as members of SMOs.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312289", "title": "Mockingbird (Marvel Comics)", "text": "Mockingbird (Marvel Comics)\n\nMockingbird (Barbara \"Bobbi\" Morse) is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Mockingbird first appeared in \"Astonishing Tales\" #6 in 1971 as a supporting character and eventual love interest of Ka-Zar. She is soon revealed to be a highly trained agent of S.H.I.E.L.D., as well as a Ph.D in biology. She first uses the moniker \"Mockingbird\" in \"Marvel Team-Up\" #95 (July 1980), and goes on to be a member of several Avengers teams.\n\nIn 2012, Mockingbird was listed as #48 on IGN's \"Top 50 Avengers\". Bobbi Morse was portrayed by Adrianne Palicki in the second and third seasons of the television series \"Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.\", which is set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe.\n\nThe character first appears as Barbara Morse in the Ka-Zar story in \"Astonishing Tales\" #6 (June 1971) written by Gerry Conway and pencilled by Barry Smith. The earliest story to be written and drawn (by Len Wein and Neal Adams) featuring the character was intended to appear in \"Savage Tales\" #2 (July 1971), but the series was canceled (a #2 and subsequent series appeared much later) and new homes were found for the stories in the ensuing months. In subsequent publications, creators including Roy Thomas, Len Wein, Neal Adams, Mike Friedrich, Archie Goodwin, George Evans, Steven Grant, and Mark Gruenwald made significant contributions to the development of the character.\n\nAfter appearing in the 1983 Hawkeye mini-series, Mockingbird became a founding member of the \"West Coast Avengers\", appearing in the group's initial self-titled mini-series, followed by regular appearances in the group's ongoing monthly series, until its end in 1994.\n\nMockingbird appeared as a regular character throughout the 2010–2013 \"New Avengers\" series, from issue #1 (August 2010) through its final issue #34 (January 2013). She also co-starred in the 2010 series \"Hawkeye & Mockingbird\", which ran for 6 issues. Mockingbird became regular character in the 2013 \"Secret Avengers\" series by Nick Spencer and Luke Ross.\n\nIn September 2015, Mockingbird starred in the one-shot \"Mockingbird: S.H.I.E.L.D. 50th Anniversary\" #1 by writer Chelsea Cain and artist Joëlle Jones. That November, Marvel announced the launch of her first ongoing series by Cain and artist Kate Niemczyk in March 2016. It was canceled after eight issues due to poor sales, despite receiving critical acclaim.\n\nThe character who later becomes Mockingbird first appears in a short sequence in \"Astonishing Tales\" #6 (June 1971) in which a frantic young brunette arrives at the English country estate of Lord Kevin Plunder (who is also known as \"Ka-Zar\"). Encountering the butler, she exclaims, \"Lord Kevin Plunder where is he? I must speak with him! 'tis a matter—of the fate of worlds!\" In a brief second appearance in the same issue, the character claims that \"Lord Kevin Plunder and I have never met—and yet I feel that I know him...You see, I can—can 'feel' people in my mind! And I know that unless I speak with him—Lord Kevin will die!\" Subsequent creators continued to develop the character, and no later story makes reference to any psychic abilities.\n\nAfter this story Roy Thomas took over writing the Ka-Zar strip and in his first story the as-yet-unnamed character makes another brief appearance. The butler at Ka-Zar's estate informs her that his employer is currently in the Savage Land. The girl then vows to \"walk the Savage Land\" for \"[Ka-Zar's] sake and the sake of the world\".\n\nIn \"Astonishing Tales\" #8 (Oct. 1971) Thomas is joined by co-writer Gary Friedrich and the character begins to develop—her hair color changes to blonde without explanation and her name is given as \"Barbara\". In this issue Ka-Zar comes upon the site of a plane crash in the Savage Land and encounters a survivor. This man explains that he and his fiancée Barbara flew to the Savage Land seeking Ka-Zar. He mentions that Barbara learned of Ka-Zar's whereabouts from the butler at the Plunder Estate, clearly indicating that Barbara is meant to be the same character as the brunette from the previous two issues. Barbara is shown later in the story; having parachuted from the plane before the crash she is rescued by a group of World War II veterans who have been trapped in the Savage Land for decades.\n\nGerry Conway briefly returned to co-write (with Roy Thomas) Barbara's next appearance where she finally meets Ka-Zar and is reunited with her fiancé (whose name is revealed as \"Paul\"). In the following issue (written by Thomas alone) Ka-Zar leads the two characters through the dangerous Savage Land.\n\n\"Astonishing Tales\" #12 (June 1972) is a key early appearance for the character, due in part to Marvel's decision to feature Man-Thing in this issue. At this point Man-Thing had made only one previous appearance, in the 1971 black-and-white magazine \"Savage Tales\" #1. A follow-up seven-page Man-Thing story by writer Len Wein and artist Neal Adams was commissioned for a version of \"Savage Tales\" #2 that was ultimately never published. Finally seeing print in \"Astonishing Tales\" #12 the sequence is presented as a flashback and an interlude between the main action of the book.\n\nOne of the characters in the Wein/Adams story is a blonde female scientist called \"Dr. Barbara Morse\". Morse is working on a research project in the Florida Everglades called Project: Gladiator, which is an attempt to replicate the Super-Soldier serum which was used to create Captain America. This is the same research which Ted Sallis had previously been working on when a flawed serum transformed him into the Man-Thing. In the story Morse is abducted by AIM thugs and is later liberated through the intervention of the Man-Thing.\n\nFraming the flashback is a sequence of newer material by writer Roy Thomas and artist John Buscema in which Barbara (now revealed to be \"Dr. Barbara Morse\" and thus the character from the Wein/Adams Man-Thing story) and Paul (now \"Dr. Paul Allen\") accompany Ka-Zar back to the United States and explain that they sought him out so that he could help them deal with the problems surrounding the appearance of the Man-Thing in Florida.\n\nIn the next issue, the storyline is wrapped up and Paul reveals he is a double agent working for A.I.M. It is also revealed for the first time that Barbara has connections with S.H.I.E.L.D.; the spy agency asked her to pretend to love Allen to \"learn what [she] could\" about his activities with AIM. At the story's end Paul dies at the hands of the Man-Thing and Barbara expresses the hope that she can \"go back to just being a scientist again\".\n\nMike Friedrich took over from Roy Thomas to become writer of \"Astonishing Tales\" with #15 (Dec. 1972). He introduces a new status-quo in which Ka-Zar is living in New York and \"lady biologist\" and S.H.I.E.L.D. agent Barbara (who now prefers to be called \"Bobbi\") Morse is his constant companion.\n\nFriedrich remained the writer of the various color Ka-Zar series for the next two years and for most of that period he continued to feature Morse as Ka-Zar's sidekick and occasional love interest. In these stories she is depicted as a fully trained S.H.I.E.L.D. agent. Contemptuous of his jungle origins, she is Ka-Zar's escort to the city and modern life. Together she and Ka-Zar tackle threats such as the Pusher, Gemini, Victorius, Gog, and the Plunderer. As the series progresses she begins to wear a regular costume of tinted-glasses, a red one-piece, and boots. Her S.H.I.E.L.D. designation of \"Agent 19\" is revealed and she and Ka-Zar finally kiss.\n\nIn 1974 the color Ka-Zar series left \"Astonishing Tales\" and was relaunched in the \"Ka-Zar, Lord of the Hidden Jungle\" title. The strip is set once again in the Savage Land and Morse is absent for the first story. She returns in the third issue—explaining that Nick Fury had sent her on a S.H.I.E.L.D. assignment to look into \"El Tigre\", a subversive who is exploiting the energy crisis in South America. This leads her to reluctantly travel back to the Savage Land, where she and Ka-Zar defeat El Tigre and his ally Man-God together.\n\nThe introduction of Shanna the She-Devil into Ka-Zar's supporting cast changes Morse's role in the stories of this period. Ka-Zar expresses clear attraction to the more jungle-friendly Shanna from the outset and Morse is cast as the secondary love interest. This dynamic is most notable in Morse's lone appearance in the Ka-Zar strip in the black-and-white magazine \"Savage Tales\" (#8; Jan. 1975). Written by Gerry Conway, the story depicts Morse leading Shanna and a group of S.H.I.E.L.D. agents into the Savage Land where they work with Ka-Zar to neutralise a threat to world security. During the course of the adventure Morse realises that Ka-Zar's affections lie with Shanna. This story, first published in late-1974, is the last in which Morse appears as a Ka-Zar supporting character.\n\nA year later Mike Friedrich returned to the character in a 20-page story with art by George Evans. Published in the one-shot black-and-white magazine \"Marvel Super Action\" #1 (Jan. 1976) the story is the first in which Morse appears as a costumed super heroine and lead protagonist. While operating as a S.H.I.E.L.D. agent she is recruited by a United States Senator to look into corruption in a Latin American branch of the espionage organization. To complete her mission she \"drops out\" of S.H.I.E.L.D. and takes on the superhero identity of the \"Huntress\".\n\nIn a text piece in \"Marvel Super Action\" #1 editor Archie Goodwin explained how Morse came to be used for this story\n\n\"Marvel Super Action\" was originally designed as a bi-monthly publication, but the economic recession of the mid-1970s forced Marvel to scale back their plans and the magazine was published as a one-off. This meant that the plot of Huntress, originally planned as a two-parter, had to be condensed before publication and no follow-up stories by the same creators were ever produced.\n\nMorse's next published appearance was \"Marvel Team-Up\" #95 (July, 1980) in which she dons a new costume and finally takes on the alias \"Mockingbird\". This story explains that she has continued to look into corruption in S.H.I.E.L.D. and in doing so has come to be hunted by the organization which mistakes her for a criminal. Teaming up with Spider-Man (and with assistance from S.H.I.E.L.D. director Nick Fury) Mockingbird confronts Carl Delanden, a corrupt S.H.I.E.L.D. branch director. In the ensuing battle she is shot by S.H.I.E.L.D. agents who are following a previous order to subdue her at any cost. The story ends with an unconscious, badly injured but exonerated Mockingbird left in the care of Nick Fury.\n\nIn the letters column of that issue the series' then assistant editor Mark Gruenwald explained the creative origins of this new iteration of Bobbi Morse:\n\nThe reference to the \"why we abandoned the \"'Huntress' moniker\" is a nod to the fact that Marvel's rival DC Comics had debuted a character with the same name in the interim between \"Marvel Super Action\" #1 and \"Marvel Team-Up\" #95. DC's \"Huntress\", originally the superhero daughter of the Batman and Catwoman of Earth-Two, debuted in \" All Star Comics\" #69 and \"DC Super-Stars\" #17 (both Dec. 1977).\n\nThe character next appeared in Gruenwald's 1983 four-issue \"Hawkeye\" miniseries. Fully recovered from her injuries, Mockingbird investigates corruption at Cross Technological Enterprises, where Clint Barton/Hawkeye works as security chief. Though the two initially come into conflict with each other, they end up co-operating to fight the villain Crossfire and by the series end they are shown to be seriously romantically involved, having eloped together to the Pocono Mountains and apparently married.\n\nThe miniseries reveals how Morse originally became involved with S.H.I.E.L.D. recounting how she left her biology studies at Georgia Tech to follow her \"favorite prof\" Wilma Calvin on the government's Project: Gladiator. The research project was partly sponsored by S.H.I.E.L.D. which led Morse to enroll in their spy school and graduate at the top of her class. It is also revealed that she spent six months convalescing in a private hospital after the injuries she suffered in \"Marvel Team-Up\" #95.\n\nGruenwald was editor of the \"Avengers\" title in late 1983 when writer Roger Stern began to feature Hawkeye and Mockingbird as members of the series supporting cast. In a short period Mockingbird moves back into Avengers Mansion with Barton as he returns to active duty, she is formally introduced to the team as his wife, the Vision then proposes that Hawkeye and Mockingbird establish a second Avengers team on the west coast, and the two move out to Los Angeles.\n\nThis leads into the 1984 four-issue \"West Coast Avengers\" limited series, also written by Stern and edited by Gruenwald. In this series Mockingbird becomes a full-fledged Avenger as she assists her husband in setting up a new branch of the organization.\n\n\"West Coast Avengers\" became a regular series in 1985 and Steve Englehart, the series writer for its first 42 issues, featured Mockingbird heavily as one of the main cast members of the book. A year into the series Mockingbird begins to wear a modified version of her original costume, designed by series artist Al Milgrom.\n\nOver the latter course of his run, Englehart developed a storyline in which the relationship between Hawkeye and Mockingbird is put under serious strain. When the West Coast Avengers are transported to the old west of 1876 the Phantom Rider (Lincoln Slade) abducts, drugs, and brainwashes Mockingbird into forgetting her original life and convinces her she is in love with Slade (and by implication, raping her). After breaking free of his control, Mockingbird seeks revenge on the Rider, and is shown allowing him to plunge to his death off of a cliff.\n\nHawkeye learns that Mockingbird let the Phantom Rider die, and harshly disapproves of her actions which leads Mockingbird to leave both Hawkeye and the Avengers. For a time she and ex-Avengers Tigra and Moon Knight operate as a small fighting unit and together they have various adventures including a battle with the High Evolutionary and an encounter with the modern-day Phantom Rider who is possessed by his 19th century ancestor. In one story Mockingbird's arrest of the Digger causes a rift between the West Coast Avengers and the Night Shift. Mockingbird later reconciles with the no-longer-possessed Phantom Rider.\n\nJohn Byrne became writer and artist of \"West Coast Avengers\" in 1989 and in his first story Mockingbird returns and admits to inadvertently betraying the team. She later explains that she was duped by a group who claimed to be connected to S.H.I.E.L.D. into revealing security information about their headquarters for a \"contingency\" plan to neutralise the Vision in the event that he should try to take over the world once again. In fact the plan is put into operation immediately and when Mockingbird realizes this she rushes to the West Coast Avenger's headquarters only to arrive too late, the group having already abducted and dismantled the android. The group is revealed to be a consortium of international security services and though the Vision is eventually restored his memory and personality are erased.\n\nLater Mockingbird tracks down Clint Barton (Hawkeye) and makes an attempt at reconciliation, admitting that she still loves him. During their discussion Barton reveals that they had previously decided to divorce. Hawkeye and Mockingbird then travel to Milwaukee to look into the appearance of a group calling themselves the \"Great Lakes Avengers\". Upon investigation the couple decides to stay in Milwaukee to train the amateur superhero group and work on their relationship.\n\nMockingbird's next regular appearances are as a supporting character in the Hawkeye strip in \"Avengers Spotlight\", in a storyline written by Steve Gerber in which she aids her husband as he takes on the Los Angeles Asian crime lord Lotus.\n\nRoy Thomas returned to writing the character when he and his wife Dann became co-writers of the rechristened \"Avengers West Coast\" title in 1990. Mockingbird first makes a brief reappearance in the title when she attends an \"Avengers West Coast\" team meeting and stands for election to return to the team, being voted in as an \"alternate member\" (effectively a reserve member). Hawkeye (who is already a full member, having returned to the series a year earlier) admits he did not vote for her and describes her as his \"estranged wife\". Mockingbird then returns to Detroit.\n\nIn a later storyline Morse contacts Barton and states that she is returning to Los Angeles from Detroit to discuss matters with him. She is then reunited with her husband while he is in the field as Hawkeye, joining him and the Avengers West Coast on a mission after which Mockingbird begins to once again make regular appearances as a cast member of the book. Mockingbird later reveals to Hawkeye that their divorce is almost final and Ultron abducts her and uses her thought patterns and personality to create his second robotic 'wife' Alkhema, the two rekindling their romance after she is liberated.\n\nThe originally intended interpretation of some of these events is changed by a story that is published 17 years later. \"New Avengers: The Reunion\" #2 (May 2009) asserts that just prior to her abduction by Ultron, Mockingbird was replaced by a Skrull impersonator, and thus the \"Mockingbird\" who appears between \"Avengers West Coast\" vol. 1, #89/90 (Dec. 1992/Jan. 1993) and \"Secret Invasion\" #8 (Jan. 2009) should no longer be considered the genuine article.\n\nThe reconciliation between Hawkeye and Mockingbird is short-lived as in late 1993 Thomas has the character sacrifice her life to save her husband from Mephisto in the centennial issue of \"Avengers West Coast\".\n\nThe \"Avengers West Coast\" title was canceled two issues later. The storyline depicted how the team, reeling from the events surrounding Mockingbird's death, is ultimately forced to disband.\n\nIn 1998 writer Kurt Busiek briefly revived the character in the \"Avengers\" volume 3 series where she appears as a reanimated corpse, a member of the Legion of the Unliving, part of the Grim Reaper's plot to destroy the Avengers.\n\nIn 1999's \"Thunderbolts Annual 2000\", writers Busiek and Fabian Nicieza have Mockingbird send a message from the afterlife that results in the resurrection of Hellcat. Her reasons for being in Hell are unclear, though she denies it is due to her previous refusal to save the Phantom Rider, hinting that her presence in Hell is serving some purpose. In the subsequent \"Hellcat\" limited series by writer Steve Englehart, Mockingbird is depicted fighting endless battles in Hell.\n\nThe character next appears in the tongue-in-cheek 2006 \"X-Statix Presents: Dead Girl\" miniseries by writer Peter Milligan. In this series she is depicted as residing in Heaven, where she is an active member of a book club that also includes Dead Girl, Gwen Stacy and Moira MacTaggert. She is recruited by Doctor Strange and Dead Girl to help defeat Mr. Pitiful and his group of resurrected supervillains. She returns to Heaven at the series conclusion and no reference is made to her previous appearances in Hell.\n\nIn a 2009 interview Marvel editor and writer Jim McCann revealed how the decision to resurrect Mockingbird was made creatively:\nBendis first teases at Mockingbird's return when, at the beginning of \"Secret Invasion\", a spaceship crash-lands in the Savage Land and a large group of superheroes emerges from the wreckage, among whom is a character who looks exactly like Mockingbird. All the members of this group present themselves as the genuine article—they claim that at some point in the past they were each abducted and replaced by Skrull imposters, the Skrulls being a race of alien shape-shifters. Clint Barton, who is present at the scene (and at this point goes by the code name \"Ronin\") believes this \"Mockingbird\"'s claims to be his wife because she is able to tell him the significance of the date \"October 12\" to their relationship. The date would have been the birthday of the couple's (previously unmentioned) miscarried child, which—it is explained—was conceived at some point during their joint career as Avengers. Barton initially defends this \"Mockingbird\" from the suspicions of other superheroes, but when she is revealed to be a Skrull imposter he kills her in a fit of rage.\n\nLater in the series Iron Man finds a Skrull ship in orbit which genuinely contains various individuals who had been abducted and replaced by the Skrulls. The real Mockingbird is revealed to be among them and she tearfully reunites with Barton.\n\nIn a subsequent issue of \"Avengers: The Initiative\" writers Christos Gage and Dan Slott include Mockingbird among a group of Skrull abductees who attend a support meeting about their experience.\n\nAfter the character's return in the 2008 \"Secret Invasion\" storyline, Bendis began to use Mockingbird regularly in the \"New Avengers\" title. She joins the team (in which her husband, still using the code-name \"Ronin\", is also a member), and with them she fights the Hood's gang of super-villains, learns Spider-Man's true identity, and battles Dormammu.\n\nMockingbird gains a new costume in 2009's \"New Avengers: The Reunion\" miniseries, which was pencilled by David Lopez and Jo Chen and written by the editor and writer who had previously advocated for Morse's return: Jim McCann. The plot of the series involves Mockingbird and Clint Barton/Ronin teaming-up to take on A.I.M. Scientist Supreme Monica Rappaccini. During the story Morse reveals that she and a group of fellow former S.H.I.E.L.D. agents who were also Skrull abductees have formed a new espionage organization—the \"World Counter-terrorism Agency\" or \"W.C.A.\" (the abbreviation being a nod to Barton and Morse's former \"West Coast Avengers\" team).\n\nThis series also reveals that Mockingbird was replaced by a Skrull just prior to her abduction by Ultron. This is a plot-point in the series as it establishes that prior to her abduction Barton and Morse were in the process of being divorced and so she is technically no longer married to him. By the story's conclusion they rekindle their relationship, though they decide to remain unmarried.\n\nIn one subsequent \"New Avengers\" storyline Mockingbird is the only member left standing when a device invented by Jonas Harrow inhibits the rest of her teammates superpowers. Morse is forced to fight the entire Wrecking Crew alone in Times Square and is eventually defeated by them. However she later returns to the scene with an Avengers Quinjet to rescue her colleagues.\n\nAnother plotline involves Clint Barton/Ronin vowing to kill Norman Osborn. Morse and the other New Avengers object to the idea so Barton attempts the assassination alone and in secret. He ultimately fails and is captured by the Dark Avengers, leading Mockingbird to mount a rescue mission with other Avengers and liberate Barton.\n\nIn March 2010 Marvel announced that a new \"Hawkeye & Mockingbird\" ongoing series would be launched in June 2010, produced by the \"New Avengers: The Reunion\" creative team of writer Jim McCann and artist David Lopez. Promotional interviews revealed that the premise of the series involved Morse and Clint Barton (once again under the code-name \"Hawkeye\") working together as agents of the World Counter-terrorism Agency. They are both also still members of the New Avengers, although Barton soon leaves the team because he prefers to work on the main Avengers team, saying that he was only with the New Avengers to spend time with his wife.\n\nDuring a raid on a warehouse that is revealed to be the location of H.A.M.M.E.R.'s attempt to reorganize after the defeat of Norman Osborn, Bobbi is mortally injured in a shooting despite Spider-Man's attempts to save her, forcing her teammates to evacuate her to the hospital. While Mockingbird lies in hospital in critical condition, Nick Fury contacts the team and gives her a top secret serum that was created by the Germans in 1959 and has recently been rediscovered by the H.A.M.M.E.R. agents; a combination of the Super Soldier Serum that turned Steve Rogers into Captain America, and the Infinity Formula that slowed Fury's aging. The Formula saves her life, but Nick warns the New Avengers that he cannot predict the consequences of turning Mockingbird into a combination of himself and Rogers.<ref name=\"New Avengers 2/13\">\"New Avengers\" vol. 2 #13 (June 2011), Marvel Comics.</ref>\n\nAfter being injected with the Formula during the \"Fear Itself\" storyline, Mockingbird makes a quick and complete recovery from her injury, and exhibits powers similar to Steve Rogers. She is quite relieved and happy to be alive, and fights the Serpent's forces in New York with vigor. After she witnesses Avengers Tower fall, her feelings of happiness are sobered, and she vows to defeat Sin.\n\nHawkeye and Mockingbird remain divorced, going their separate paths.\n\nAs part of the 2012 Marvel NOW! branding, Mockingbird appears as part of S.H.I.E.L.D.'s new Secret Avengers roster, making her debut appearance while helping Nick Fury, Jr. capture Taskmaster. During that mission, she uses S.H.I.E.L.D.'s Camo-Tech to disguise herself as Aloysius Thorndrake of the Shadow Council. Mockingbird goes to A.I.M. Island to assist Taskmaster in helping make contact between the rogue Iron Patriot drones and James Rhodes.\n\nAs part of the All-New, All-Different Marvel branding, Mockingbird helps Spider-Man when they pursue Zodiac's Leo Sect down the highways of Shanghai, China as they give a status report to Nick Fury, Jr. When they catch the lead Leo Sect member, Mockingbird accuses him of adhering to his \"no-one dies around me\" idealism after using an antidote to counter the lead Leo Sect member's suicide pill. Spider-Man tells her he's not so naive anymore and simply wants to save everyone he can.\n\nAfter recovering the Webware from Pisces, Aquarius, and Cancer, Spider-Man gives the status of the mission to Mockingbird and Nick Fury Jr. Mockingbird tells Spider-Man that Leo is still being interrogated and has not snitched yet.\n\nDuring \"Civil War II,\" Mockingbird is invited to a cosplay cruise with the promise of secret documents to prove Hawkeye's innocence. It turns out to be a ruse by the Phantom Rider to win back her love. She is able to remove him from his corporeal form, but both fall into the water as the cruise rounds the Bermuda Triangle. Bobbi is rescued by Lance Hunter, but the Phantom is destroyed by the waters.\n\nDuring the \"Secret Empire\" storyline, Mockingbird appears as a member of the Underground following Hydra's takeover of the United States. It is later revealed that she is Maria Hill's inside person in the main Underground.\n\nDuring the \"Iron Man 2020\" event, Mockingbird appears as a member of Force Works. Their mission takes them to the island of Lingares where they deal with some Deathloks and Ultimo.\n\nMockingbird is a trained S.H.I.E.L.D. agent who graduated at the top of her class and as such she is very proficient in several forms of hand-to-hand combat, including Kung Fu and Taekwondo and familiar with a wide range of weapons. The character usually uses a pair of batons which can be combined to form a single bō-staff in combat, weapons with which she has great expertise. Morse also used a pair of night vision and vision enhancing goggles, similarly to her once-husband Hawkeye . She also possesses a PhD in biology. During one comic book series, Spider-Man provided her with a new uniform courtesy of Parker Industries for being their S.H.I.E.L.D. liaison. This costume came attached with wing-like extensions allowing Morse to glide on wind currents.\n\nTo cope with a mortal injury she sustained in a mission, Mockingbird was injected with an experimental serum combining the Super Soldier Serum that gave Captain America his strength and the Infinity Formula that has slowed Nick Fury's aging. The obvious consequence of this was that her injuries were healed, but Fury admitted his uncertainty about the formula's long-term consequences on her biology. Thus far, she has exhibited greatly enhanced physical strength, healing and agility.\n\nMockingbird has been depicted in other fictional universes. Some of these include:\n\nSet in a distant possible future, writer Peter David's 1995 miniseries \"The Last Avengers Story\" depicts Mockingbird as an embittered retiree who cares for her blinded husband Clint Barton. At the story's conclusion Mockingbird and Hawkeye return to duty and help the Avengers defeat Ultron, Grim Reaper, and Kang.\n\nWriter Steve Englehart revisited the Mockingbird and Hawkeye marriage in the 2001 miniseries \"Fantastic Four: Big Town\". Set in a world where the technological advances of Reed Richards have filtered down throughout society, the series shows Mockingbird and Hawkeye as newlyweds and members of the Manhattan-based Avengers. Their relationship comes under familiar strain when Mockingbird kills an assailant in defence of her husband and Hawkeye disapproves of her actions, questioning their necessity. Later in the story, Mockingbird refrains from killing Quicksilver who then goes on to kill Hawkeye. At the story's end, the Avengers consider reviving Barton by placing his brain patterns in the body of the android Vision.\n\nBobbi Morse appears as a member of Luke Cage's Human Resistance group nicknamed the \"Avengers\" in writer Christos Gage's miniseries \"\". In this story, set in the alternate timeline of the \"House of M\" storyline, Morse is a former S.H.I.E.L.D. agent who was phased out from the organization when mutants became the dominant species. She becomes a costumed vigilante and is romantically involved with Clint Barton/Hawkeye. In the penultimate issue of the series the character leaves to seek asylum in Wakanda while Hawkeye stays behind.\n\nMockingbird appears as one of the zombified heroes attacking the Punisher in \"Marvel Zombies vs. The Army of Darkness\" #2.\n\nDuring the \"Secret Wars\" storyline in the pages of \"\", Mockingbird is part of the secret S.H.I.E.L.D. resistance against .\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2312292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312292", "title": "Thomas Basin", "text": "Thomas Basin\n\nThomas Basin (1412–1491) was a French bishop of Lisieux and historian.\n\nBasin was born at Caudebec in Normandy, but in the devastation caused by the Hundred Years' War, his childhood was itinerant. He was taken from Caudebec in 1415, and stayed in Rouen, Vernon, Falaise, Saint-James de Bouvron, Redon, and Nantes. It was on 25 October 1415 that the Battle of Agincourt took place, and there were few safe places in Normandy. Basin did not return to Caudebec until 1419, his stated object being his desire to see his parents again.\n\nIn 1424 Basin went to the University of Paris, where he became a master of arts in 1429. He was admitted to the faculty of arts at Leuven on 31 December 1431, declaring his intention to study civil law. In 1433 Basin obtained a bursary at the College of St Augustine in Pavia, which had been founded by Cardinal Branda da Castiglione, a former bishop of Lisieux (1420–1424), who reserved a number of the twenty-four places for students from Normandy. He remained there until he obtained his licenciate in Civil Law. He then returned to Caudebec to visit his parents, and then took up residence in Louvain, from 1435 to 1437, where he obtained his licenciate in Canon Law. By September 1437 he was back in Italy, a Master of Arts and of Canon and Civil Laws, and is found at Bologna, where the Papal Curia and Pope Eugene IV were in residence. He was immediately given the expectation of the rectorship of the parish church of Saint-Germain-de-Carville (diocese of Rouen). This required ordination to the priesthood, but he requested a delay of five years; he was granted two. On 6 December 1437 he was also granted the privilege of holding more than one benefice at a time.\n\nBasin was compelled to return home to Normandy when he discovered that his parents had been forced to flee to Rouen to avoid the English, but he was back on the road to Italy in April 1438. The journey took nearly six months, since his itinerary, which was to include Holland and the Rhine valley, was disrupted by a storm that made him seek refuge in London, where he was ill for two months. When he finally arrived in Italy again, he could not move from Pavia to Ferrara for more than three months because of the plague. He finally rejoined the Curia in September 1438.\n\nBasin was present at the Council which began at Ferrara, but which was transferred to Florence by decree of Pope Eugene IV on 10 January 1439. During the Council he made the acquaintance of the humanist Poggio Bracciolini, which blossomed into a friendship of twenty years. Both worked on the council's business under the direction of Cardinal Cesarini, the President of the Council. On 21 March 1439 Basin was named a Canon of the Cathedral Chapter of Lisieux. In July 1439 he was appointed to an embassy to Hungary, led by Cardinal Cesarini. The embassy was made very difficult when Albert of Austria, King of Hungary, died on 14 October 1439, and a struggle for election to the throne began between supporters of Władysław III of Poland and Queen Elisabeth of Luxembourg. The embassy returned to Florence on 26 March 1440. Basin was soon made Canon and prebendary of the Cathedral Chapter of Rouen by Pope Eugene as his reward for service on the legation. His senior colleague on the embassy, Giovanni Tagliacozzo, was made a cardinal. In 1440 Basin was ordained a subdeacon, but he did not remain long in Italy. On 23 May 1441 he took his stall in the Cathedral Chapter of Rouen. In November 1441 the English Royal Council named him professor of canon law in the new University of Caen. On 1 October 1442 he was elected Rector of the University of Caen. He also became vicar-general for the bishop of Bayeux, Zeno Castiglione, who was a member of the English Royal Council. Basin was one of the negotiators appointed by King Charles VII on 10 June 1445 to negotiate a marriage between one of his daughters and Edward, Duke of York.\n\nOn 11 October 1447 Thomas Basin, \"Doctor in utroque iure\" (Civil and Canon Law), was appointed Bishop of Lisieux by Pope Nicholas V. It is possible that he was consecrated at Lambeth on 1 November 1447, by Archbishop John Stafford (1443–1452), Bishop Robert Gilbert of London (1436–1448), and Bishop Thomas Bourchier of Ely (1443–1454). On 3 February 1448 he took his oath of allegiance to King Henry VI of England at Windsor Castle.\n\nIn the summer of 1449, King Charles VII, determined to drive the English army out of Normandy. After taking Pont-Audemer the French army headed directly for Lisieux, determined on a siege if necessary. The Bishop pleaded with his people to avoid the pillaging and burning of Lisieux, which would become inevitable if they resisted the French. His advice was followed, and on 16 August 1449 he was sent forth and negotiated a treaty with the French. In it, the Bishop retained his privileges as bishop and count, and was given the privilege of naming the Captain who would be Governor of Lisieux. The King accepted the treaty on 28 August, and Bishop Basin took an oath of loyalty to the King of France. He was granted a pension of 1000 livres a year, which was regularly paid (at least according to surviving records) from 1450 to 1460.\n\nOn 15 August 1461 Bishop Basin took part in the coronation of King Louis XI at Reims. Basin was much involved in the wars between the English and French and was employed by Charles VII of France and by his successor Louis XI, at whose request Basin drew up a memorandum setting forth the misery of the people and suggesting measures for alleviating their condition. On 4 July 1463 Bishop Basin pronounced the excommunication of three persons convicted of witchcraft, who were immediately turned over to \"the secular arm\". The three witches were burned at the stake on 12 July. Basin was following in the footsteps of his predecessor, Bishop Pierre Cochon, who had turned Jeanne d'Arc over to \"the secular arm\".\n\nIn 1464 the bishop joined the League of the Public Weal and fell into disfavour with King Louis, who seized the temporalities of his see. In 1466 Bishop Basin took refuge in Louvain, where on 5 January he consecrated Louis de Bourbon, Bishop of Liège. He benefited from an amnesty for the members of the League, but Louis would not allow him to return to his diocese. Instead, he was sent to Perpignan as Chancellor of Roussillon and Cerdagne, and then as Ambassador to the King of Aragon; this occupied fourteen months of his virtual exile. He visited Savoy, where Yolande of France was regent, and then cities belonging to the Duke of Burgundy, Geneva, Basle, Trier and Louvain.\n\nIn 1474 King Louis put pressure on Basin's relations and friends in order to force his resignation. After exile in various places Basin proceeded to Rome, and resigned his bishopric on 27 May 1474. Pope Sixtus IV bestowed upon him the title of archbishop of Caesarea by way of consolation. Occupied with his writings Basin then passed some years at Trier and afterwards transferred his residence to Utrecht (now in the Netherlands), where his old friend, David the bastard of Burgundy, was Bishop and lord of the city.\n\nWhen Louis XI died in 1483, his successor Charles VIII invited Bishop Basin to return to France, but without his diocese he saw no reason to accept.\n\nBasin died in Utrecht on 3 December 1491, and was buried in the church of St. John (Janskerk).\n\nBasin's principal work is his \"Historiae de rebus a Carolo VII. et Ludovico XI. Francorum regibus\". This is of considerable historical value, but is marred to some extent by the author's dislike for Louis XI. At one time it was regarded as the work of a priest of Liège, named Amelgard, but it is now practically certain that Basin was the writer. He also wrote a suggestion for reform in the administration of justice entitled \"Libellus de optimo ordine forenses lites audiendi et deferendi\", which was the product of his careful study of the Roman Rota while he worked at the Curia; an \"Apologia\", written to answer the charges brought against him by Louis XI; a \"Breviloquium\", or allegorical account of his own misfortunes; a \"Peregrinatio\"; a defence of Joan of Arc entitled \"Opinio et consilium super processu et condemnatione Johanne, dicte Puelle\" and other miscellaneous writings. He wrote in French, \"Advis de Monseigneur de Lysieux au roi\" (1464).\n\nBishop Basin's cartulary survives, in the Library of Lisieux.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312293", "title": "A Estrada", "text": "A Estrada\n\nA Estrada is a municipality of the Pontevedra province in Galicia in northwestern Spain. It is located some southeast of Santiago de Compostela.\nThe name comes from the Latin word \"strata\", with the meaning of \"trodden earth, where one walks, I walk\". In fact, two paths crossed in the main square: from south to north up a path from Terra de Montes, Ourense and Portugal, where the herdsmen and pilgrims going to Santiago de Compostela passed; and east to west, from the lands of Deza, Trasdeza and the interior of Galicia, where herdsmen headed to the coast.\n\nTabeirós jurisdiction stems from the days of the Swabian King Miro in the sixth century and is mentioned in the Chronicon Iriense as belonging to the diocese of Iria. In the twelfth century, the archbishop of Santiago Gelmírez and King Alfonso VII of Castile exchanged land between Tabeirós, Tabeirolos and the Faro fort, passing the first into the possession of the Compostela miter. This jurisdiction covered the whole current City of A Estrada, except for the parishes of Vea, until 1840. This is the year in which the City Council and the judicial district of A Estrada were created (now the capital of the judicial district comprises the municipalities of A Estrada, Forcarei and Cerdedo).\n\nThree years earlier, because of the clashes between absolutists and liberals, the town hall of Tabeirós moved from Cereixo to the site of A Estrada, formed by four houses at a crossroads between the parishes of Figueroa, Ouzande and Guimarei.\n\nIn the early 20th century, the town was described as follows:\n[A Estrada] is the chief town of a densely populated mountainous district; its industries are agriculture, stockbreeding, and the manufacture of linen and woollen cloth. Timber from the mountain forests is conveyed from Estrada to the Ulla River, 4 miles north, and thence floated down to the sea ports on Arousa Bay. There are mineral springs at A Estrada and at Caldas de Reis, 11 miles west-southwest.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312294", "title": "Three-legged race", "text": "Three-legged race\n\nA three-legged race is a running event involving pairs of participants running with the left leg of one runner strapped to the right leg of another runner. The objective is for the partners to beat the other contestant pairs to the finish line.\n\nThe longest distance ever run three-legged in 24 hours is 109.8 km (68.23 miles) and was achieved by Mark Howlett (Ely, Cambs, England) and Rab Lee (Bo'ness, Scotland), at the Glenmore 24 Hour Trail Race, in the Cairngorms National Park, Scotland, on 7–8 September 2013. This is also the longest distance ever run three-legged. Mark Howlett and Rab Lee invented 'The Maverick' technique, where one person leans slightly in front of the other to enable faster running.\n\nThe world record for the most pairs in a three-legged race is 649, set in 2013 on the Isle of Man. An August 2014 attempt in Canberra organised by National Rugby League team Canberra Raiders failed; only 543 pairs competed.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312300", "title": "Society of King Charles the Martyr", "text": "Society of King Charles the Martyr\n\nThe Society of King Charles the Martyr is an Anglican devotional society dedicated to the cult of King Charles the Martyr, a title of Charles I of England (1600–1649). It is a member of the Catholic Societies of the Church of England, an Anglo-Catholic umbrella group. It is also active in the Scottish Episcopal Church and North America, and has international members elsewhere.\n\nAfter Charles I was executed in 1649, it was said that the Puritans had offered to spare his life if he would abolish episcopacy in the Church of England. On the basis that his refusal led to his death, high church supporters of episcopacy viewed his death as a martyrdom. After the 1660 Restoration of his son Charles II to the throne, observance of 30 January, the date of Charles I's execution, was added to the Church of England's liturgical calendar, with a special service in the Book of Common Prayer and special sermons preached.\n\nThe Anniversary Days Observance Act 1859 removed the service, along with those of Gunpowder Plot and the Restoration, as being of political rather than religious character. The liberal influence which led to the 1859 change also produced a Tractarian reaction, which developed into Anglo-Catholicism and encouraged a renewal of high church practices. The Society of King Charles the Martyr was founded in 1894 with the stated purpose of \"intercessory prayer for the defence of the Church of England against the attacks of her enemies.\" Since then, the objectives have extended to religious devotion in keeping with the traditions of Anglo-Catholicism.\n\nToday, the society's stated objectives are the following:\n\n\nThe patrons of the society are Lord Nicholas Windsor, Sir Leslie Fielding, and Arthur Middleton, a former canon of Durham.\n\nOutside England, the objectives vary slightly, especially in regard to the Feast of St Charles, which is widely observed by the church in some places and not in others.\n\nIn the United States and Canada, the society is independently constituted as the American Region. The society's activities in the United States can be traced back to 1895, within a year of the society's foundation in 1894 in London. The American Region is incorporated under the General Laws of the State of Maryland as a not-for-profit corporation, the \"Society of King Charles the Martyr, Inc.\", and is tax-exempt under Section 501(c)(3) of the IRS code, both effective as of 8 April 2008. The American Region is governed by a Board of Trustees, and holds a Solemn Mass of the Feast of St Charles Martyr on a Saturday close to January 30. In addition, the American Region confers an honour on some members through membership in the Order of Blessed William Laud.\n\nAs of 2017, the American Region has more than 400 members. Keith Ackerman serves as episcopal patron.\n\nA Catholic chapter of the society also exists within the Personal Ordinariate of the Chair of Saint Peter with the approval of Bishop Steven J. Lopes.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312303", "title": "Lucy Kellaway", "text": "Lucy Kellaway\n\nLucy Kellaway (born 26 June 1959) is a British journalist turned teacher. She remains listed as a management columnist at the \"Financial Times\", but became a trainee teacher in a secondary school in 2017. She is a co-founder of the educational charity Now Teach. During her career in journalism, she has worked as energy correspondent, Brussels correspondent, a \"Lex\" writer, and interviewer of business people and celebrities, all with the \"FT\". She is best known for her satirical commentaries on the limitations of modern corporate culture. She is a regular commentator on the BBC World Service daily business programme \"Business Daily\".\n\nKellaway was born in London, a daughter of Australians Bill and Deborah Kellaway, the writer on gardening. Her sister is the critic and \"The Observer\" writer Kate Kellaway. Kellaway attended Camden School for Girls, where her mother taught English, and then Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford, where she read Philosophy, Politics and Economics (PPE).\n\nAfter initially working at the foreign exchange dealing room of Morgan Guaranty and at the \"Investors Chronicle\", Kellaway won the Wincott Young Financial Journalist Award in 1984.\n\nFrom 1985, she worked for the \"FT\", where she wrote the Monday column \"Lucy Kellaway on Management\". Some years later, a satirical column purporting to be the emails of Martin Lukes, a senior manager in a company called A&B (later expensively re-branded to a-b glöbâl) would appear on Thursdays. It was revealed in 2005 that these were written by Kellaway (see below). At the British Press Awards 2006, Kellaway was named Columnist of the Year.\n\nShe wrote the \"Dear Lucy\" column, in which she adopts the point of view of a business agony aunt in response to letters sent by readers.\n\nKellaway has won the Work Foundation's Workworld Media Award twice.\n\nKellaway wrote the management book \"Sense and Nonsense in the Office\" which was published in 1999.\n\nHer second book was a satirical novel in emails: \"Martin Lukes: Who Moved My BlackBerry?\" (July 2005).\n\nMartin Lukes stands for every male manager trying to scramble to the top of the greasy pole. He is driven by ambition. He has little self-doubt—and even less self-knowledge. He thinks of himself as highly emotionally intelligent but has no idea how he is coming across. He is hungry for money, but more hungry for recognition. He wants people to love him and to be dazzled by his ability to \"think outside the square,\" yet the ideas he comes up with are phony and pedestrian. He is a shameless player of the political game who manages by being a world-class brownnoser to disguise the fact that his native abilities are not quite as world-class as he would like.\n\nOn the launch of a redesigned \"FT\" in April 2007, the editor listed Kellaway (and Lukes) as the second of five key items of unique content as reasons for reading the \"FT\". \"The Answers: All the office questions you never dared to ask\" was published in paperback in late 2007.\n\nIn 2010, Kellaway published the novel \"In Office Hours\". The book described the ill-advised love affairs of two women working for a large oil company. Like much of Kellaway's work, it dealt with office mores, but also displayed an emotional range that surprised some readers who were more used to the pure parody of Martin Lukes. \"In Office Hours\" was serialised on BBC Radio 4's \"Book at Bedtime\" and described as \"funny, truthful and cracking satire\" by \"The Sunday Times\". It was favourably reviewed in \"The Observer\".\n\nIn November 2016, it became known that Kellaway was leaving the \"Financial Times\". From summer 2017 she worked as a maths teacher in a \"challenging\" London secondary school. She will still write 12 articles a year for her old paper. \"I'm not remotely repentant about what I've done\", Kellaway wrote in \"The Times\" in November 2017. \"Since September 1, I have not been bored for one second. I am so interested in what I am doing that I have become a bore to my old friends\". In 2018 Kellaway announced that she was turning her back on maths to teach children business studies instead, a decision she has written about in the Financial Times.\n\nIn 2006 she was appointed a non-executive director of the insurance company Admiral Group. On 20 July 2012, she was awarded an Honorary Doctorate by the University of Essex.\n\nLucy Kellaway is a regular contributor to the BBC World Service programme \"Business Daily\". For BBC Radio 4, she wrote and presented a series of ten daily 15-minute programmes on the \"History of Office Life\" in 2013, and the series \"The Joy of 9 to 5\" in 2015. She has podcasted her FT columns since 2007.\n\nKellaway was married to David Goodhart, the former editor of \"Prospect\"; the couple separated in 2015. She has four children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312304", "title": "Kate Grenville", "text": "Kate Grenville\n\nCatherine Elizabeth Grenville (born 1950) is an Australian author. She has published fifteen books, including fiction, non-fiction, biography, and books about the writing process. In 2001, she won the Orange Prize for \"The Idea of Perfection\", and in 2006 she won the Commonwealth Writers' Prize for \"The Secret River\". \"The Secret River\" was also shortlisted for the Man Booker Prize.\n\nHer novels have been published worldwide and have been translated into many languages. Three have been adapted into feature films. \"The Secret River\" was adapted for the stage by Andrew Bovell and toured by the Sydney Theatre Company in 2019.\n\nKate Grenville was born in 1950, one of three children born to Kenneth Grenville Gee, a District Court judge and barrister; and Isobel Russell, a pharmacist. She was educated at Cremorne Girls High School, the University of Sydney (BA Hons) and the University of Colorado (MA). After completing her undergraduate degree at the University of Sydney, Grenville worked in the film industry, mostly editing documentaries at Film Australia. She has also been a teacher of creative writing. Between 1976 and 1980 she lived in London and Paris, and wrote fiction while supporting herself by doing film-editing, writing, and secretarial jobs. In 1980 she went to the University of Colorado at Boulder to do a master's degree in creative writing. She returned to Australia in 1983 and became a sub-editor at SBS Television in the subtitling department. She won a literary grant in 1986 and left SBS to pursue her writing. Since the early 1990s she has been an Honorary Associate at the University of Sydney.\n\nIn 2006 she was awarded a Doctorate of Creative Arts by the University of Technology, Sydney under the supervision of Glenda Adams and Paula Hamilton. She has also been awarded an Honorary Doctorate of Letters from the University of Sydney, the University of NSW, and Macquarie University.\nIn 2017 she was awarded a Lifetime Achievement award from the Australia Council and in 2018 received an AO.\n\nGrenville has been married to Robert Steiner and cartoonist Bruce Petty. She lives in Sydney with her son and daughter. Her leisure activities include learning to play the cello and performing in an amateur orchestra.\n\nKate Grenville's reputation as a short story writer was made by the publication in 1984 of her collection \"Bearded Ladies\". On its publication, Peter Carey wrote \"Here is someone who can really write\".\n\n\"Lilian's Story\" was her first published novel (1985) and won The Australian/Vogel Literary Award. It was loosely based on the story of Bea Miles, known in Sydney for her eccentric public behaviour. It has become one of Australia's best-loved novels and in 1996 was made into a film starring Ruth Cracknell and Toni Collette; Collette won the Australian Film Institute award for supporting actress for her performance as the young Lilian.\n\n\"Dreamhouse\" followed in 1986, and appeared as the 1994 film \"Traps\". \"Joan Makes History\" – the recipient of an Australian Bicentennial Commission – was published in 1988.\n\nIn 1994 Grenville returned to the characters and setting of \"Lilian's Story\" with a companion novel – \"Dark Places\" – that re-tells the events of the earlier novel from the point of view of Lilian's incestuous father. \"Dark Places\" won the Victorian Premier's Literary Award in 1995. (In the US this novel is titled \"Albion's Story\".)\n\n\"The Idea of Perfection\" appeared in 2000 and won the Orange Prize for Fiction, at the time Britain's richest literary award.\n\nIn 2006 \"The Secret River\" was published, the first of Grenville's books that take Australia's colonial past, and relations with Australia's indigenous people, as their subject. \"The Secret River\" was inspired by the story of Grenville's own great-great-great grandfather, a convict sent to Australia from London in 1806. This book won the Commonwealth Prize, the Christina Stead Award, and the NSW Premier's Community Relations Prize, and was shortlisted for the Man Booker Prize.\n\n\"Searching for The Secret River\" (2006) is a memoir about the research and writing of the novel, tracing the journey of the author's increasing awareness of how Australia's colonial past informs its present.\n\n\"The Lieutenant\" (2008) is set thirty years earlier than \"The Secret River\". Based on the historical notebooks of Lieutenant William Dawes, it tells the story of the friendship between a soldier with the First Fleet and a young Gadigal girl. These two novels together explore something of the complexity of black-white relations in Australia's past.\n\n\"Sarah Thornhill\" (2011) is the sequel to \"The Secret River\" and takes up the story of William Thornhill's youngest daughter. It can be read as a stand-alone novel, without reference to \"The Secret River\".\n\nIn 2015 Grenville published \"One Life: My Mother's Story\", in which she uses the fragments of memoir that her mother left to construct the story of a woman whose life - in some ways typical of her times, in other ways remarkable - spanned a century of tumult and dramatic change.\n\nGrenville has also written or co-written several books about the writing process which are widely used in creative writing workshops and in schools and universities: \"The Writing Book\", \"Writing from Start to Finish\", and \"Making Stories\" (co-written with Sue Woolfe).\n\nIn 2017 she published a book about the politics and health effects of artificial scents, \"The Case Against Fragrance\".\n\nHer latest book (published July 2020) is a novel that takes its inspiration from the life of Elizabeth Macarthur, a settler in early Australia: \"A Room Made of Leaves\". \n\nGrenville has been awarded fellowships from the International Association of University Women and from the Literary Arts Board of the Australia Council. Her novels have all been published in the UK and US as well as Australia and have been translated into many languages, including German, Swedish, French, Hebrew and Chinese. Two have been made into feature films. \"The Secret River\" was made into a TV mini-series, and adapted (by Andrew Bovell) as a play that had sell-out runs at the Adelaide and Edinburgh Festivals.\n\nGrenville's early fiction presented characters trying to free themselves from social and gender stereotypes. \"Bearded Ladies\" is a collection of short stories about women trying to free themselves from the gender stereotypes of their society.\n\n\"Lilian's Story\", set in the early 20th century, takes as its subject a woman who rejects her middle-class background and the conventional future that is expected of her, and instead chooses to live as a street person, making a living by offering recitations from Shakespeare. At the end of her life she declares joyously: \"Drive on, George. I am ready for whatever comes next.\"\n\n\"Joan Makes History\" is a satirical re-writing of Australia's history, foregrounding the women rather than the men. Joan is an Everywoman character who in various guises lives through all the iconic moments of Australia's past. She \"makes history\" both by simply living her life, and by (re)making history by writing it.\n\n\"Dreamhouse\" is a black comedy about a marriage on the rocks. It explores themes of both men and women freeing themselves from stereotypes to accept their true selves. Both partners in the marriage are attracted to their own sex: the wife is prepared to acknowledge that and act on it while the husband refuses to.\n\n\"The Idea of Perfection\" is about people haunted by the impossible ideal of perfection. The two main characters are both middle-aged and frumpish, and consider themselves unlovably flawed. The journey they make is to recognise that to be \"imperfect\" is simply to be human, and carries its own power. As the epigraph from Leonardo da Vinci asserts: \"An arch is two weaknesses that together make a strength\".\n\n\"The Secret River\" is set in early 19th-century Australia and is based on the story of one of Grenville's convict ancestors, Solomon Wiseman, a London boatman transported for theft. She takes that story as a means of exploring a wider theme: the dark legacy of colonialism, especially its impact on Australia's Aboriginal peoples. The title comes from the anthropologist W. E. H. Stanner, who wrote about a \"secret river of blood flowing through Australia's history\": the story of white Australia's relationship with the Aboriginal people.\n\nGrenville has written a memoir of the research and writing of \"The Secret River\", entitled \"Searching for the Secret River\".\n\n\"The Lieutenant\" is the story of one of the very earliest moments of black-white relationship in Australia, at the time of first settlement in 1788. Based on a historical source – the Gadigal-language notebooks of Lieutenant William Dawes – the novel tells the story of a unique friendship. In learning the Gadigal language from a young girl, Dawes wrote down word-for-word parts of their conversations. Grenville has used these fragments as the basis for a novel exploring how it might be possible for two people to reach across the gulfs of language and culture that separate them, and arrive at a relationship of mutual warmth and respect. She has described it as a \"mirror-image\" of \"The Secret River.\"\n\n\"Sarah Thornhill\" is a sequel to \"The Secret River\". It tells the story of one of the children of the main character in the earlier book. Sarah Thornhill grows up knowing nothing of the dark secret in her family's past, and when she has to confront it, the direction of her life and her thinking is changed. It's a story about secrets and lies, and how to deal with a dark legacy from the past. Grenville has said that the book is set in the 19th century, but is as much about the ugly secrets in Australian history that her own generation inherited.\n\nThese three books form a loose trilogy – \"The Colonial Trilogy\" – about the first three generations of white settlement in Australia, and what that shared black/white history means for contemporary Australians. The themes of the three books reach beyond Australia: all are widely read in other countries where colonialism has left a problematic legacy.\n\n\"A Room Made of Leaves\" returns to this subject and can be seen as a fourth novel in this series. It takes as its starting-point the life of Elizabeth Macarthur, wife of early wool baron John Macarthur. It tells the story of that remarkable woman, but its underlying theme is about the way false stories can come to replace the truth.\n\nGrenville frequently does extensive research for her novels, often using historical or other sources as the starting-point for the work of the imagination. She says of her books that they are \"sometimes inspired by historical events, but they are imaginative constructs, not an attempt to write history\".\n\nSome years after her mother died, Grenville put together a book about her, based on the memoirs and recordings her mother left. The result is \"One Life: My Mother's Story\", a book about a woman born in 1912 who rode the waves of tumultuous change that happened over the course of her life.\n\nGrenville's most recent non-fiction book is about the health problems that can be caused by the synthetic fragrances that are all around us: \"The Case Against Fragrance\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGrenville's work has appeared in: Swedish, Dutch, German, French, Italian, Czech, Bulgarian, Spanish, Portuguese, Hebrew, Norwegian, Greek, Mandarin and Japanese.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312305", "title": "Patrick T. Powers", "text": "Patrick T. Powers\n\nPatrick T. Powers (June 27, 1860 – August 29, 1925) was an American baseball executive who served as president of the Eastern League and founding president of the National Association of Professional Baseball Leagues. Already president of the EL, he was elected by several minor league presidents on September 5, 1901 at the Leland Hotel in Chicago.\n\nThe purpose of the NAPBL was to keep the uniting minor leagues independent of the American and National Leagues who were engaged in a nasty turf war, stealing players and hurling accusations at each other. By then, the established major National League had abrogated its agreement with the minor leagues when threatened by the American side. After the AL won its equality with the NL, the two major leagues and the minor association led by Powers reestablished a National Agreement. Once again, a system was in place to protect rosters and territories and at the same time feed some players to the National and American Leagues.\n\nBefore becoming a league executive, Powers was a team manager including two seasons in the major leagues. In 1890 he led the Rochester Broncos of the American Association to a 63-63 record and a fifth-place finish. With the New York Giants in 1892, he finished 8th in the 12-team National League with a record of 71-80.\n\nPowers retired from the presidency of the NABPL in 1909, at a time when the Eastern League considered leaving. Michael Sexton was chosen to replace Powers as president at the Winter Meetings in 1909. Powers and Sexton have been considered the \"fathers\" of the current Minor League Baseball, as they thought alike and acted alike, and were in agreement on the path that the organization should take. As a result, Sexton extended the valuable legacy of Powers during the next 24 years.\n\nThere were 35 leagues and 246 professional baseball clubs in the organization. It has continued on as the trade association of those lesser baseball leagues that make up organized baseball. It goes by the aforementioned moniker of Minor League Baseball today, which implies a universality no longer even approximately attained. Once again at the end of the 20th century as at the beginning, there were many independent professional leagues — such as the Northern League, Central League, and Golden Baseball League. Those leagues also feed players, albeit many fewer, to the major leagues.\n\nPowers died at the age of 65 in Belmar, New Jersey.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312306", "title": "Storax balsam", "text": "Storax balsam\n\nStorax (; , \"stúrax\"), often commercially sold as styrax, is a natural resin isolated from the wounded bark of \"Liquidambar orientalis\" Mill. (Asia Minor) and \"Liquidambar styraciflua\" L. (Central America) (Hamamelidaceae). It is distinct from benzoin (also called \"storax\"), a similar resin obtained from the Styracaceae plant family.\n\nPurified storax contains circa 33 to 50% storesin, an alcoholic resin, both free and as cinnamic esters. Contains 5 to 15% cinnamic acid, 5 to 15% cinnamyl cinnamate, circa 10% phenylpropyl cinnamate; small amounts of ethyl cinnamate, benzyl cinnamate, and styrene, Some may contain traces of vanillin. Some sources report a resin containing triterpenic acids (oleanolic and 3-epioleanolic acids).\n\nStorax has a pleasant, floral/lilac, leathery, balsamic smell. Storax and its derivatives (resinoid, essential oil, absolute) are used as flavors, fragrances, and in pharmaceuticals (Friar's Balsam).\n\nAmerican storax resin (\"Liquidambar styraciflua\") is chewed like gum to freshen breath and clean teeth.\n\nMnesimachus, Aristotle, Theophrastus (\"Historia Plantarum\"), Herodotus, and Strabo are the first ones to mention the storax tree and its balsam. In ancient Greece, storax also denoted the spike at the lower end of a spearshaft.\n\nPliny (\"Historia Naturalis\" 12.98, 15.26; 24.24) notes the use of storax as a perfume, while Scribonius Largus drank wine flavored with storax. Ciris mentions storax as a fragrant hair dye. Dioscorides (\"De materia medica\" 1.79) reports its use as incense, similar to frankincense, having expectorant and soothing properties.\n\nThe 10th century Arab historian al-Masudi listed storax gum (\"mayʿa\") as a spice in his book \"Murūdj al-dhahab\" (\"Meadows of Gold\").\n\nChao Ju-Kuan, a 13th century trade commissioner in Fukien province, described liquid storax gum as a product of the Somali (\"Po-pa-li\") coast.\n\nLinnaeus, who determined the scientific names of plants, thought that storax was extracted from the tree called in modern Hebrew \"livneh refu'i\" which he termed \"Styrax officinalis\". However in the light of tests made in Israel it is very doubtful if a sap with medicinal or aromatic qualities can be extracted from this tree. The storax of the ancients was probably extracted from a different tree, seemingly from the \"Liquidambar orientalis\" which grows wild in northern Syria and may even have been grown in Israel; from it is extracted an aromatic sap with healing qualities called \"storax liquidis\". This may possibly be the biblical balm, though other sources conclude that the biblical balm is Balsam (opobalsamum).\n\n\"Styrax benzoin\" is a more humid Asian species, reported from India, Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar, Thailand, Vietnam, Java, Sumatra, and Malaysia. Thus, this species historically would have needed to be imported from outside Israel.\n\nIn the nineteenth century, styrene was isolated by distillation of storax balsam.\n\nIn North Africa, for mystical purposes, women burn benzoin and storax in potsherds.\n\nStorax resin is \"generally regarded as safe\" (GRAS), but at low levels, for example, circa 15 ppm in candy and 25 ppm in baked goods.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312311", "title": "Clinical trials publication", "text": "Clinical trials publication\n\nClinical trials publication is having research published in a peer reviewed journal following clinical trials. Most investigators will want to have such a publication but the nature of clinical trials may create special considerations and obstacles.\n\nMost agreements for a clinical trial between sponsor and investigator grants that the sponsor may control publication of results by requesting publication delays, deleting portions of a manuscript, or placing limits on the types of issues that can be discussed. These controls serve to prevent disclosure of information that would compromise the sponsor's ability to patent inventions; to prevent disclosure of confidential information shared with investigator; and to coordinate the disclosure of results when a clinical trial is being conducted at multiple sites. These are legitimate business concerns, but may not restrict the investigator from freely publishing research results in the end of the study and approval process.\n\nDue to repeated accusations and findings that some clinical trials conducted or funded by pharmaceutical companies may report only positive results for the preferred medication, the industry has been looked at much more closely by independent groups and government agencies. Issues and responses have included guidelines to limit financial inducements to researchers, journal articles presented as academic research actually being 'ghost-written' by pharmaceutical companies, litigation to deter or suppress publication of negative findings, concerns, or cheaper alternatives. and laws in the United States requiring advanced clinical trials to be registered on a public government website.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312313", "title": "Tony Caunter", "text": "Tony Caunter\n\nAnthony Patrick Caunter (born 22 September 1937) is a British actor best known for his role as Jack Shepherd in the Yorkshire TV sitcom \"Queenie's Castle\" and also his portrayal of Roy Evans in \"EastEnders\" from 1994–2003.\n\nThe second son of Annie Mary and Roy Hobert Caunter, Caunter attended Worthing and Westcliff High Schools, before service in the RAF and training as an actor at LAMDA. Caunter has an older brother, Roger. Caunter's mother died when he was 11 years old. Caunter is married to Frances Wallace and has four children. They live in Worthing, West Sussex.\n\nHis numerous television credits include \"Crown Court\", \"Z-Cars\", \"The Avengers\", \"London's Burning\", \"Home to Roost\", \"Queenie's Castle\", \"The Saint\", \"The Champions\", \"Dixon of Dock Green\", \"Catweazle\", \"The Main Chance\", \"The Professionals\", \"The Sweeney\", \"Minder\", \"Pennies From Heaven\", \"Westbeach\", \"Howards' Way\", \"Lovejoy\", \"May to December\", \"Boon\", \"Heartbeat\", \"Juliet Bravo\" and \"The Scarlet Pimpernel\". He played Titanic's chief officer Henry Wilde in \"S.O.S. Titanic\". In \"The Chief\", he played Deputy Chief Constable Arthur Quine.\nHe appeared in the \"Doctor Who\" episodes \"The Crusade\", \"Colony in Space\" and \"Enlightenment\". He also appeared in \"Blake's 7\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2312315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312315", "title": "Wally Westmore", "text": "Wally Westmore\n\nWalter 'Wally' James Westmore (February 13, 1906 – July 3, 1973) was a make-up artist for Hollywood films.\n\nWestmore was one of six brothers; all became notable film make-up artists. They were Monte, Perc, Ern, Wally, Bud and Frank.\n\nWally Westmore's career began with the highly successful \"Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde\" (1931) in which the transition of Fredric March from Jekyll to Hyde was considered groundbreaking in the field of film make-up. He eventually went on to work on more than 300 films, mostly for Paramount.\n\nSome of his more notable films include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2312326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312326", "title": "Steen Steensen Blicher", "text": "Steen Steensen Blicher\n\nSteen Steensen Blicher (11 October 1782, Vium – 26 March 1848 in Spentrup) was an author and poet born in Vium near Viborg, Denmark.\n\nBlicher was the son of a literarily inclined Jutlandic parson whose family was distantly related to Martin Luther.\n\nHe grew up in close contact with nature and peasant life in the moor areas of central Jutland. After trying his hand as a teacher and a tenant farmer, he at last became a parson like his father and from 1825-1847 served in the parish of Spentrup.\n\nAs a clergyman, Blicher is said to have been less than inspired. His main interests were hunting and writing. In 1842, he was accused of alcoholism and abandoned from a Cooperation of Danish writers. Many struggles with his superiors the following years led to his dismissal shortly before his death.\n\nHe had ten children, seven sons and three daughters, with his wife Ernestine Juliane Berg, whom he married on 11 June 1810.\n\nBlicher is known as the pioneer of the novella in Danish. From the 1820s until his death he wrote several tales that were published in local periodicals (mostly dealing with his home region), as well as historical and amateur scientific sketches. Much of this work is entertainment but as many as twenty or thirty pieces have been called literary masterpieces.\n\nIn his prose, Blicher describes human fate in his home region in Jutland. Blicher is often called a tragic and melancholic writer, but he is not without wit and humour.\n\nBlicher is one of the first novelists to make significant use of the unreliable narrator theme in literature. Four notable examples are:\n\n\nHe had additional talents, too: \"E Bindstouw\" is a mixture of tales and poetry on the model of the Decameron, written in the Jutlandic dialect. Here he turns loose his humorous side.\n\nEarlier reviews noted that Blicher’s literary skill lies in his descriptions of scenery, especially the Jutlandic moor landscape and its inhabitants: the long-suffering peasantry and “free” moor gypsies. Later some biographies pointed out his skills in describing tragedy and psychology.\n\nStylistically, Blicher alternates between his own detailed intellectual narrative style and the colloquial speech of peasants, squires and robbers.\n\nBlicher wrote poetry from the years of the Napoleonic Wars until his death. Among his most important poems are the melancholic \"Til Glæden\" (“To Joy”) from 1814, his interesting local patriotic song \"\"Kærest du Fødeland\"\" (Dearest You Birthland) that shows his love for his home region, and his impressive winter poem \"\"Det er hvidt herude\"\" (It is white out here), published in his notable poetry collection \"\"Trækfuglene\"\" (Birds of Passage) in 1838.\n\nThe whole collection \"\"Trækfuglene\"\" was inspired by a serious extended illness. In this uncharacteristic poetry work, he let a range of symbolic birds express his own personal situation.\n\nThe bluff and cheerful dialect poem \"Jyden han æ stærk å sej\" (\"The Jutlander he is strong and tough\") is from 1841.\n\nMany of Blichers poems have been accompanied by melodies later on. Notable examples includes \"\"Det er hvidt herude\"\" often sung to a melody composed by Thomas Laub in 1914 and \"\"Sig nærmer tiden, da jeg må væk\"\" (The time approaches when I must go) sung to a melody composed by Oluf Ring in 1922, both from \"\"Trækfuglene\"\".\n\nBlicher was a man of far-ranging interests. Beginning as a conservative he developed into an eager critic of society, uniting the role of the enlightened citizen of the 18th century with modern liberalism. He tried to arrange national feasts in Jutland and proposed numerous laws and reforms, but he was never really accepted by the established liberal politicians.\n\nAlso something of an Anglophile, he translated British poetry, including Macpherson’s Ossian and novels such as Goldsmith’s \"The Vicar of Wakefield\" – once he even tried to write poetry in English.\n\nThough being a member of the first Romanticist generation of Danish writers, Blicher is in many ways unique. He is more of a realist, dealing with broken dreams and with Time as man’s superior opponent. His religion is the old rationalist one.\n\nHe is a belated Danish pupil of the 18th century English epistolary style while, in his interest for dialect and peasants, he anticipates the regional writers who emerged around 1900, such as Johannes Vilhelm Jensen.\n\nToday Blicher is regarded as the pioneer of the Danish short story and regional writing. Many of his verses have been set to music and his best novels have been reprinted many times.\n\nSteen Steensen Blicher never enjoyed international interest on the scale of Hans Christian Andersen or Karen Blixen, but in Denmark he is almost as well-known. In 2006, his novel \"Præsten i Vejlbye\" was adopted in the Danish Culture Canon, which means, officially one of the 10 Order of Merit novels in Danish literature of all time.\n\nIn Denmark, Blicher enjoyed fame and recognition in his own lifetime, and has been praised for his contributions to Danish culture ever since. In 1951, literary scholars initiated the Danish Blicher Society to \"further and deepen the interest for Blichers life and writings\", through various activities. They have awarded Blicherprisen (The Blicher Prize) annually since 1955 and the society is still active as of 2018.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312328", "title": "Hermann Busenbaum", "text": "Hermann Busenbaum\n\nHermann Busenbaum (or Busembaum) (19 September 160031 January 1668) was a Jesuit theologian. He attained fame as a master of casuistry.\n\nHe was born at Nottuln in Westphalia (Germany). He entered the Jesuit order in 1619, and taught scholastic and moral theology in Cologne. He became rector of the Jesuit college at Hildesheim and then at Münster, where he died on 31 January 1668, being at the time father-confessor to Bishop Christoph von Galen.\n\nHis book \"Medulla theologiae moralis, facili ac perspicua methodo resolvens casus conscientiae\" (1645) grew out of his lectures to students at Cologne. The manual obtained a wide popularity and passed through over two hundred editions before 1776. Although less bold in its declarations than some other Jesuit books, such as, for example, the \"Defensio Fidei\" (1613) of Francisco Suarez, it was the most complete and systematized in its exposition, and served as a type for succeeding treatises of the sort.\n\nThe theology of \"Medulla\" was generally well received within the Catholic Church. The book was published in all the major European centers of Catholicism and was widely used in seminaries as a manual on practical moral theology for 200 years. It received positive commentary from theologians including St. Alphonsus de Liguori, a Doctor of the Church.\n\nThe book met no significant opposition until Pierre Lacroix added considerably to its bulk. His editions in two folio volumes appeared in both Germany (1710–1714) and France (1729). In these editions, the sections on murder and especially on regicide were much amplified, and in connection with Damiens' attempt on the life of Louis XV the book was severely handled by the parlement of Paris. At Toulouse in 1757, though the offending sections were repudiated by the heads of the Jesuit colleges, the \"Medulla\" was publicly burned, and the episode undoubtedly led the way to the duc de Choiseul's attack on the Jesuits.\n\nBusenbaum also wrote a book on the ascetic life, \"Lilium inter spinas\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2312329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312329", "title": "John Challis", "text": "John Challis\n\nJohn Spurley Challis (born 16 August 1942) is an English actor best known for portraying Aubrey \"Boycie\" Boyce in the long-running BBC television comedy series \"Only Fools and Horses\" and its sequel/spin-off \"The Green Green Grass\". Since 2015, he has made guest appearances as \"Monty Staines\" from the seventh series onwards in the hit ITV comedy \"Benidorm\", later becoming a regular from series 10 in 2018.\n\nHis father James Alec, from Sheffield, was a civil servant. An only child, Challis was born in Bristol but when he was one year old, the family moved to south east London. Challis attended the state boarding Ottershaw School near Woking, Surrey. Upon leaving school he worked as a trainee estate agent before becoming a professional actor. An early television role, in 1969, was in the controversial gangster drama \"Big Breadwinner Hog\", and between 1971 and 1975 he made regular appearances in \"Z-Cars\" as Sergeant Culshaw.\n\nHe played Herman Terrance Aubrey \"Boycie\" Boyce for many years in \"Only Fools and Horses\". The series' writer, John Sullivan, also created a spin-off for Challis called \"The Green Green Grass\". His other television appearances include \"Dixon of Dock Green\", \"The Sweeney\", \"Doctor Who\" (\"The Seeds of Doom\"), \"Dracula\", \"Beau Geste\", \"Juliet Bravo\", \"Coronation Street\", \"Bloomers\", \"Citizen Smith\", \"Ever Decreasing Circles\", \"Doctor Snuggles\", \"Chance in a Million\", \"The Bill\", \"One Foot in the Grave\", \"Open All Hours\", \"The New Statesman\", \"Don't Wait Up\", \"Soldier Soldier\", \"Brass Eye\", \"My Family\", \"In Sickness and in Health\", \"Last Of The Summer Wine\", \"Benidorm\" and \"Heartbeat\".\n\nThe outdoor scenes of \"The Green Green Grass\" were filmed at his then home, surrounding fields and local villages. Four series were broadcast by BBC One from 2005–2009. In the 2008 series of \"Last of the Summer Wine\" he guest-starred as a fake jewel thief, trying to impress the ladies.\n\nChallis appeared on the Channel 4 mockumentary television programme \"Brass Eye\", where he was tricked into believing Clive Anderson had been shot by Noel Edmonds. On BBC radio, he played an interrogator in the play \"Rules of Asylum\" by James Follett, broadcast by BBC Radio 4 in 1973. He also played Dibden Purlew in \"Getting Nowhere Fast\" from 2001 to 2004.\n\nChallis has had a number of stage roles. He starred in pantomime at the Plaza Theatre in Stockport as Captain Hook in \"Peter Pan\", a role he reprised in 2018 at the Theatre Royal, Nottingham. He also appeared in pantomime at Weston Playhouse in winter 2011–12 playing Ebenezer in \"Aladdin\" and as King Rat in \"Dick Whittington\" at the Plaza Theatre in Stockport over Christmas 2013 and New Year 2014. In 2006 he took a cameo role in BBC's \"The Impressionists\" as Station Master Garre Saint Lézasr. He appeared alongside Christmas enthusiasts Paul Toole and Chris Elliott in the Channel 4 documentary \"King Of Christmas Lights\", which aired on 19 December 2011, switching on the Christmas lights at Manning Close in Wells, Somerset, on 30 November. He also flicked the switch in Weston Super Mare on 1 December 2011. In 2013 Challis occasionally contributed to the \"Hitchhiker's Guide To The Galaxy Live Tour\" as the narrator.\n\nChallis has written two volumes of autobiography, \"Being Boycie\" and \"Boycie & Beyond\". From April 2012 he embarked on a book tour to promote \"Being Boycie\", starting at Waterstones in Uxbridge, and the same year became the narrator of the National Geographic Channel series \"Strippers: Cars for Cash\".\n\nIn 2014, Challis began a theatre tour of his one-man show titled \"Only Fools and Boycie\", which charted his life before, during and after his time as 'Boycie'.\n\nIn February 2016 Challis performed An Evening With John Challis in Derby.\n\nOn 19 February 2016 Challis was cast in the role of Captain Peacock taking over the role originally played by Frank Thornton in a remake of \"Are You Being Served?\" The episode aired on BBC in August 2016.\n\nHe also has starred in Benidorm.\n\nChallis is currently married to his fourth wife Carol. They married in 1995 in Brighton and live in the former grange house of Wigmore Abbey, Wigmore, Herefordshire. Challis has no children.\n\nChallis is a patron of the British Hedgehog Preservation Society. He is an Arsenal supporter.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312331", "title": "Peruvian nationality law", "text": "Peruvian nationality law\n\nAccording to the Peruvian Constitution and nationality legislation passed in 1996 as well as an executive order declared in 1997, Peruvian nationality can be passed by birth via jus soli or by registration if born overseas and duly registered at a Peruvian embassy or consulate before the child reaches 18 years of age. In addition, infants or minor children found abandoned on Peruvian territory are assumed to be Peruvian citizens. This is consistent with the nationality law of most countries of the Americas. In 1992, Peru had a scheme of selling citizenship to foreign investors for USD25,000. The scheme was closed the year after due to public outrage.\n\nThose children born overseas to Peruvian mothers or fathers who were not registered before reaching 18 years of age can acquire Peruvian nationality by choice if: \nForeigners can also acquire Peruvian nationality, including:\n\nIn common with many other Ibero-American countries, Peru's 1993 constitution explicitly states that nationals of Latin American countries and Spain do not lose their nationality upon acquiring Peruvian citizenship (many Latin American countries and Spain have similar reciprocal laws). In practice, Multiple citizenship is acknowledged and accepted by Peru and its consular and diplomatic staff.\n\nA person who has 2 years of legal residency in Peru, be it by marriage or other reasons such as work, can apply for naturalization. The 2 year requirement starts from the date one acquires residency in the country, provided that residency never lapses. The years must be consecutive. If a person has a work visa that expires, and renews it later, it doesn't count as two consecutive years. The renewal must happen before the expiration of the first. For married people, simply staying in the country is sufficient.\n\nThe person does not lose their previous citizenship; no letter of resignation of it is required, unless acquiring citizenship in Peru would conflict with the former country's laws, such as for Japanese citizens.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312338", "title": "John Aloisi", "text": "John Aloisi\n\nJohn Aloisi (born 5 February 1976) is a retired Australian association football player and former manager of A-League club Brisbane Roar. In a professional career that spanned 20 seasons, with league totals of 459 games and 127 goals, he was the first Australian ever to play and score in La Liga, the Premier League and Serie A.\n\nHe returned to Australia in 2007, with four seasons in the A-League. Aloisi was an integral member of the Australia national team for more than a decade, and represented the nation at the 2006 World Cup, being an essential figure in the qualifying stages. He also appeared for the Socceroos in two Confederations Cups. A former striker, Aloisi was described as a goal poacher who was able to \"hold the ball up well and create opportunities for his teammates.\"\n\nBorn in Adelaide, Aloisi arrived in Europe aged 16, signing with Standard Liège from Adelaide City. He did not appear in any official games for the club, and also played sparingly for his next team, fellow top division outfit Royal Antwerp FC.\n\nIn November 1995, Aloisi signed for Italian side US Cremonese. On the 25th, after only two minutes on the pitch, he scored in a 2–1 home win against Calcio Padova, becoming the youngest foreign player ever to score in a Serie A match. Ultimately, the Lombardy team suffered two consecutive relegations, and he left the club.\n\nAloisi arrived in English football early in the 1997–98 season, signing for Portsmouth in the Division One, under the chairmanship of Australia national football team manager Terry Venables. He scored 12 goals in his first season in England as Portsmouth narrowly avoided relegation, bettering that total to 13 in the following campaign.\n\nOn 17 December 1998, Aloisi moved to the Premier League with Coventry City, who paid £650,000 for his services. He made his Sky Blues debut in a 1–1 home draw against Derby County, appearing as a late substitute; also coming from the bench, he netted in the next match, 1–1 against Tottenham Hotspur.\n\nAloisi scored twice in a 4–1 win against Aston Villa at Villa Park, which was Coventry's first ever away victory in the league against their Midlands rivals. Starting in the next game, against Charlton Athletic, he was sent off for punching Danny Mills, receiving a considerable ban.. For Portsmouth and Coventry combined, he finished the season with 18 goals.\n\nCoventry were constantly threatened with relegation during Aloisi's time at the club, and finally went down at the end of the 2000–01 season after a 34-year top flight stay, with Aloisi scoring just three times. He scored a hat-trick against Preston North End in the season's Football League Cup – 4–1 home win, 7–2 on aggregate). In June, he was allowed to leave Highfield Road, and came close to signing for Crystal Palace, but nothing came of it.\n\nIn 2001, Aloisi moved to Spain, joining Pamplona's CA Osasuna. He scored nine goals in 30 games in his first season in La Liga, being regularly used during his four-year spell in Navarre. On 11 April 2004, he played the full 90 minutes in a 3–0 away win against Real Madrid and, on 11 June of the following year, he netted in the Copa del Rey final, equalising in an eventual 1–2 extra time loss against Real Betis.\n\nAfter a move to Panathinaikos F.C. collapsed, Aloisi signed for another Spanish outfit, Deportivo Alavés, on a free transfer. He scored ten goals in 2005–06, his best Spanish total, but the Basque team suffered top flight relegation.\n\nOn 20 October 2007, it was announced that Aloisi had signed with the Central Coast Mariners FC for the remainder of the season. The team was able to not include his wages in the salary cap due to a loop hole relating to injured players. He made his debut in the A-League on the 28th against Sydney FC, in a 2–3 defeat.\n\nOn 3 March 2008, after failing to re-sign with the Mariners, Aloisi penned a two-year deal with Sydney FC, for an undisclosed fee reported to be $1.4 million a season, making him the highest-paid player based in Australia in any of the four football codes. He made his debut as a second-half substitute against Perth Glory FC at the Sydney Football Stadium, and scored his first goal for Sydney in a 2–0 upset win over archrivals Melbourne Victory FC.\n\nOn 18 February 2009, 33-year-old Aloisi was linked with a loan move to Shanghai Shenhua F.C. in China. He soon decided against the deal, opting instead to spend the entire pre-season with Sydney FC, under the club's new coach Vítězslav Lavička. He scored twice in a friendly with the Newcastle United Jets FC, and eventually started repaying the faith the team had in him by scoring a double in a 3–2 win against North Queensland Fury FC in Townsville, in the first game of the season; he finished the campaign – winning both the minor and the major championships – as the first Sydney player ever to reach double digits in a single season.\n\nOn 29 March 2010, Melbourne Heart FC signed Aloisi on a free transfer. He impressed at the new club and scored eight goals, including three against rivals Melbourne Victory, both the first goal ever in a Melbourne derby, and a brace which equalised the game at 2–2 after the Heart had been 2–0 down. On 12 February 2011, he played the final game of his career against former team Sydney FC, in the last round of the A-League season, scoring and being replaced by in the 83rd minute by Kristian Sarkies, to a standing ovation from the home crowd.\n\nAloisi made his debut for the Australian national team in 1997. Also in that year, he was selected to the FIFA Confederations Cup, scoring in a 3–1 group stage win against Mexico for the eventual runners-up.\n\nAfter representing Australia at the 2004 Summer Olympics as one of the three overage players, scoring three goals in an eventual quarterfinal exit, Aloisi finished second in the scoring charts at the 2005 Confederations Cup, netting braces against Germany and Argentina as the Socceroos did not manage one single point in three games.\nOn 16 November 2005, Aloisi scored the decisive penalty against Uruguay in the 2006 FIFA World Cup playoffs, after a 1–1 aggregate tie. That goal meant Australia qualified to the FIFA World Cup for the first time since 1974. He was selected in the squad for the final stages in Germany and, on 12 June, came off the bench to score the third goal in a 3–1 group stage victory against Japan, thus becoming only the second Australian to score a goal at the World Cup finals, after teammate Tim Cahill.\n\nOn 21 July 2007, Aloisi scored in the 2007 AFC Asian Cup's quarterfinal match against Japan (1–1), in an eventual penalty shootout exit in Australia's first ever participation in that tournament. It would be the last of his 27 international goals, second-best behind Damian Mori at the time of his retirement.\n\nAfter his return to the A-League, Aloisi ceased to be recalled by the national team. In early 2008, his penalty kick against Uruguay which took the Socceroos to the 2006 World Cup was voted by the Sport Australia Hall of Fame as one of three greatest moments in Australian sporting history.\n\nAfter retiring, Aloisi started a coaching career, being appointed youth manager at Melbourne Heart. On 8 May 2012, it was announced that he had accepted a three-year contract to be the manager of Melbourne Heart. On 5 October 2012, he got his first win as manager as Melbourne Heart beat rivals Melbourne Victory 2–1. Aloisi struggled in his first season as head coach, with Melbourne Heart coming ninth in the 2012–13 season and winning only one away game all season. The 2013-14 season did not start any better with the Heart managing 0 wins, 4 draws and 6 losses from 10 starts. On 28 December 2013, Aloisi was sacked as the manager of Melbourne Heart following the club's seventeenth competitive match without a win.\n\nOn 9 February 2015, Aloisi joined Melbourne Victory FC as the development coach of its National Youth League and National Premier League sides.\n\nOn 26 May 2015, Aloisi was named manager of Brisbane Roar. In both of his first two seasons at the club, the Roar achieved a top 4 finish in the league, and made it to the semi-finals.\n\nIn May 2017, Aloisi signed a new three-year contract to stay on as manager of Brisbane.\n\nOn 28 December 2018, Aloisi resigned as manager of Brisbane Roar following the club’s poor start to the season, with the Roar second-last on the A-League ladder with just 1 win in 9 matches at the time of his departure. He left as Brisbane Roar's longest serving manager.\n\nAloisi is of Italian descent through his grandfather, who is from Calabria. Aloisi is a devout Catholic. Aloisi's older brother Ross, was also a professional footballer. Aloisi appeared on the cover of the Australian version of Pro Evolution Soccer 6.\n\nAdelaide City:\nCentral Coast Mariners:\nSydney FC:\nOsasuna:\n\nAustralia:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312339", "title": "Santa Mariña de Ribeira", "text": "Santa Mariña de Ribeira\n\nRibeira, Santa Mariña de (Also Sta. Marina de Ribeira in Spanish Castillian) is one of the 51 boroughs which constitute the, predominantly very rural, municipality of A Estrada, Pontevedra, Galicia North Western Spain.\n\nIt is located at .\nAltitude: 74m\n"}
{"id": "2312342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312342", "title": "Allan A. Moss", "text": "Allan A. Moss\n\nAllan A. Moss (December 3, 1854 – 1929), referred to as A. A. Moss, was the mayor of Newport News, Virginia. He is the only person to date to have served two nonconsecutive terms. His first span of office covered three two-year terms, from September 1, 1898, to September 1, 1904. By 1916, the term in office was extended to four years, and he served again from September 1 of that year to September 1, 1920. His terms saw continued growth of the city in its early state (having only been incorporated as an independent city in 1896). He presided over the dedication of the Newport News Victory Arch in 1919.\n"}
{"id": "2312345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312345", "title": "Parade of Champions", "text": "Parade of Champions\n\nThe WCCW Parade of Champions was a series of professional wrestling supercards promoted by Fritz Von Erich's World Class Championship Wrestling first in 1961, in 1972 and then annually from 1984 through 1988. Von Erich used the \"Parade of Champions\" name in 1984 as a way to honor his recently deceased son, David and the subsequent Parade of Champions were all \"Von Erich Memorial\" Parades of Champions. At the inaugural Von Erich Memorial event, in front of the largest crowd ever to watch a pro wrestling event in the United States up to that point, Kerry Von Erich defeated Ric Flair for the NWA World Heavyweight Championship, only to lose it back to Flair 18 days later in Yokohama, Japan. Over the next few years, Von Erich altered the names as tragedy repeatedly struck his family. The Parade of Champions was the most recognized event that World Class Championship Wrestling, later known as World Class Wrestling Association, promoted. There was a Parade of Champions super card held by Southern Sports (precursor to WCCW) in 1961 and another held by Big Time Wrestling (the previous name of WCCW) in 1972. All Parade of Champions supercards were held at Texas Stadium in Irving, Texas. A wrestling organization out of Texas called NWA Southwest ran an event in late August, 2010, called Parade of Champions, which it claimed was the \"Longest Running Wrestling Event In Texas History Dating Back To 1972,\" but there was no actual connection between the WCCW show event other than the name.\n\nThe Southwest Sports Parade of Champions was a major professional wrestling event held by Dallas, Texas based Southwest Sports on January 31, 1961 at the Texas Stadium in Irving, Texas. Southwest Sports would later be named Big Time Wrestling, then World Class Championship Wrestling and finally World Class Wrestling Association.\n\nThe Big Time Wrestling Parade of Champions was a major professional wrestling event held by Dallas, Texas based Big Time Wrestling on June 24, 1972 at the Texas Stadium in Irving, Texas. Southwest Sports would later be named World Class Championship Wrestling and later on World Class Wrestling Association.\n\nThe 1st Von Erich Memorial Parade of Champions was a major professional wrestling event held by Dallas, Texas based World Class Championship Wrestling (WCCW) on May 6, 1984 at the Texas Stadium in Irving, Texas. The event was held by WCCW promoter Fritz Von Erich in memory of his son David Von Erich, who had died in February, 1984. In the main event David's brother Kerry Von Erich faced the NWA World Heavyweight Champion Ric Flair, taking the title match that was originally planned for David Von Erich that same year. In a very emotional match Von Erich defeated Flair to win the championship in honor of his brother.\n\nThe 2nd Von Erich Memorial Parade of Champions was a major professional wrestling event held by Dallas, Texas based World Class Championship Wrestling (WCCW) on May 5, 1985 at the Texas Stadium in Irving, Texas. The event was held by WCCW promoter Fritz Von Erich in memory of his son David Von Erich that had died in February, 1984. As a result of Kerry Von Erich's victory over the One Man Gang, manager Gary Hart had his head shaved bald. If Kerry lost, Fritz would have to come out of retirement and face One Man Gang one-on-one. The match between The Fantastics and The Midnight Express for the vacant NWA American Tag Team Championship was held in two rings side-by-side. The Midnight Express' manager Jim Cornette was handcuffed to the Fantastics cornerman, \"Little John\", who stood over 7 feet tall. Referee David Manning awarded the match and the title to the Fantastics despite of the fact that Manning's pin count of a Fantastics member pinning a Midnight Express member started after referee Rick Hazzard's pin count of a Midnight Express member pinning a Fantastics member ended at 3. This match appears on the WWE Home Video \"The Triumphs and Tragedies of World Class Championship Wrestling\" DVD. Per stipulations, the winning team of the main event split $100,000 and the wrestler who eliminated the last wrestler won a brand new Lincoln Continental. Kevin Von Erich won the event with a spectacular dive from one ring over the ropes to another to pin Steve Williams. After the match, Gino Hernandez destroyed the windshield of the Lincoln Continental with a chain, with Chris Adams placing a boot on the destroyed windshield for good measure causing it to cave in.\n\nThe 3rd Von Erich Memorial Parade of Champions was a major professional wrestling event held by Dallas, Texas based World Championship Wrestling Association (WCWA) on May 4, 1986 at the Texas Stadium in Irving, Texas. The event was held by WCCW promoter Fritz Von Erich in memory of his son David Von Erich who died in 1984. On the show the Great Kabuki was to have faced four wrestlers in this handicap match, one at a time. The fourth wrestler he was to have faced was Chris Adams. Michael Hayes began berating Adams after Steve Simpson defeated Kabuki, prompting Adams to superkick both Hayes and Kabuki out of the ring.\n\nThe 4th Von Erich Memorial Parade of Champions was a major professional wrestling event held by Dallas, Texas based World Championship Wrestling Association (WCWA) on May 3, 1987 at the Texas Stadium in Irving, Texas. The event was held by WCCW promoter Fritz Von Erich in memory of his sons David Von Erich and Mike Von Erich.\n\nThe 5th Von Erich Memorial Parade of Champions was a major professional wrestling event held by Dallas, Texas based World Championship Wrestling Association (WCWA) on May 7, 1988 at the Texas Stadium in Irving, Texas. The event was held by WCCW promoter Fritz Von Erich in memory of his sons David Von Erich and Mike Von Erich. The fifth version of the Parade of Champions would be the last show promoted under that name by the Von Erich family.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312348", "title": "NeoMagic", "text": "NeoMagic\n\nNeoMagic Corporation is a fabless semiconductor company and supplier of low-power audio and video integrated circuits for mobile use (MagicMedia).\n\nIn October 2012, NeoMagic entered into the e-Commerce arena with the acquisition of its MercadoMagico.com division. MercadoMagico.com is an e-Commerce platform that will initially target the U.S. Market with a special focus on the fast-growing Hispanic and Latino community in the Americas. MercadoMagico.com provides a multivendor platform where users will be able to buy and sell products from one another or buy electronic products directly.\n\nNeoMagic Corporation was founded in 1993 in California. Working with semiconductor vendor Mitsubishi Electric as a key foundry supplier, NeoMagic introduced its first graphics processors in 1995; these were notable for being the first chips to combine a graphics logic and DRAM video memory into one chip. As this was a more power-efficient method than previous graphics processors had used, most of the major laptop manufacturers of the time began to use NeoMagic graphics chips in their systems. In 2000, NeoMagic left the laptop market completely, and switched their focus to producing systems on a chip, or SOCs, for mobile phones and other handheld devices, like PDAs. The firm's first handheld chips were unveiled in 2001, when NeoMagic introduced the MiMagic line. The initial MiMagic chips were based on a 32-bit MIPS Technologies RISC processor core, and featured 4MB of embedded DRAM, as well as a 1024x768-capable graphics chip, and an AC'97-compatible sound processor. Subsequent versions of the MiMagic chip family starting from the MiMagic 3 in 2002, were based on 32-bit ARM RISC processor cores. In October 2012, NeoMagic acquired MercadoMagico.com.\n\nThese chips were used in a number of different laptop computers. In 1998, Red Hat was able to release the source code of the XFree86 driver developed by Precision Insight Inc. which was previously distributed as proprietary software. The NeoMagic driver included in the Linux kernel is partly based on the XFree86 one.\n\nMercadoMagico.com http://www.themiddlemarket.com/news/neomagic-acquires-mercadomagico-com-234059-1.html\n\nhttp://online.wsj.com/article/HUG1685831.html?mod=wsj_share_twitter\n\nhttps://www.bloomberg.com/article/2013-05-07/atVaCKn_sLIc.html\nhttps://www.bloomberg.com/article/2013-05-28/aG8jWqLGA5cU.html\n"}
{"id": "2312367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312367", "title": "Gems (Aerosmith album)", "text": "Gems (Aerosmith album)\n\nGems is a compilation album released by Aerosmith in 1988 under the label Columbia. It was the first compilation of studio material since 1980's \"Greatest Hits\". Concentrating mainly on heavier material than the radio-friendly singles output on \"Greatest Hits\", the album is noted for the inclusion of the 1978 studio version of \"Chip Away The Stone\" – previously released as a single from 1978's \"Live! Bootleg\", only a live rendition of the song was released at the time. Originally scheduled for release on November 8, 1988 , the album was delayed one week and issued on November 15, 1988.\n\nIn 2007 The album was released by Sony BMG as part of their 'Collections' series entitled 'Greatest Hits' and reissued the following year by Sony in their 'Steel Box' series. \n\n"}
{"id": "2312372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312372", "title": "Electropherogram", "text": "Electropherogram\n\nAn electropherogram, or electrophoregram, is a record or chart produced when electrophoresis is used in an analytical technique, primarily in the fields of molecular biology or biochemistry.\n\nIn the field of genetics, an electropherogram is a plot of DNA fragment sizes, typically used for genotyping such as DNA sequencing. Such plots are often achieved using an instrument such as an automated DNA sequencer. Such electropherograms may be used to determine DNA sequence genotypes, or genotypes that are based on the length of specific DNA fragments. These genotypes can be used for:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312376", "title": "St. Marx Cemetery", "text": "St. Marx Cemetery\n\nSt. Marx Cemetery (Sankt Marxer Friedhof) is a cemetery in the Landstraße district of Vienna, used from 1784 until 1874. It contains the unmarked burial of the famous composer Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart.\n\nThe cemetery was named after a nearby almshouse whose chapel had been consecrated to St Mark. It opened in 1784 following a decree by Emperor Joseph II that forbade further burials in cemeteries within the outer walls of the city of Vienna. He also ordered that bodies should be buried in unmarked graves, without coffins or embalming. This regulation however never went into effect in Vienna, because the government of the city denied its approval owing to the fact that the populace did not want to be reminded of the mass graves of plague times. There were no mass graves in late 18th-century Vienna. \n\nThus the common assumption that Mozart's grave was unmarked because he was too poor is false. His burial in 1791 after a funeral in the Stephansdom simply followed the regulations of the day.\n\nIt includes the graves of:\n\nThe most famous person to be buried in the St. Marx Cemetery is Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. Later attempts to locate his grave all failed, including a search by his widow, 17 years after Mozart's death, and by Vincent Novello in 1829. In 1855 a gravestone was erected at what was presumed to be the correct spot. Later the stone was transferred to a group of famous musician graves at Zentralfriedhof. At St. Marx Cemetery, a worker replaced the gravestone with a memorial tablet, which was again expanded by several contributors. The memorial known today was refurbished by Viennese sculptor Florian Josephu-Drouot in 1950.\n\nOver the years, the rest of the cemetery decayed. In the 20th century it was restored, put under historic preservation status, and opened to the public in 1937.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312395", "title": "Coolgardie, Western Australia", "text": "Coolgardie, Western Australia\n\nCoolgardie is a small town in Western Australia, east of the state capital, Perth. It has a population of approximately 850 people.\n\nAlthough Coolgardie is now known to most Western Australians as a tourist town and a mining ghost town, it was once the third largest town in Western Australia (after Perth and Fremantle). At this time, mining of alluvial gold was a major industry and supplied the flagging economy with new hope. Many miners suffered under the harsh conditions, but for a few, their finds made the hard work worthwhile. Most men, however, left poorer than they had started off, with their hopes dashed.\n\nThe town was founded in 1892, when gold was discovered in the area. Australia had seen several major gold rushes over the previous three decades, mostly centred on the east coast, but these had mostly been exhausted by the 1890s. With the discovery of a new goldfield, an entire new gold rush began, with thousands flocking to the area. The Municipality of Coolgardie was established in 1894. By 1898, Coolgardie was the third largest town in the colony, with an estimated population of 5,008 (3,151 men and 1,857 women). At its peak, 700 mining companies based in Coolgardie were registered with the London Stock Exchange. The town also supported a wide variety of businesses and services, including the railway connection between Perth and Kalgoorlie, a swimming pool (first public baths in the state), many hotels and several newspapers.\n\nThe value of Coolgardie to the colony in the late 1890s was so very significant that it was used as leverage to force Western Australia to join the Australian federation - Britain and the eastern colonies threatened to create a new state to be named Auralia around Coolgardie and other regional goldfields, such as Kalgoorlie, if the government in Perth did not agree to hold a referendum on federation. The Western Australian government reluctantly complied and a referendum was held just in time to become a founding state in the new federation. When federation did occur in 1901, Coolgardie was the centre of a federal electorate, the Division of Coolgardie. Soon after in November 1901, Alf Morgans from the state electorate of Coolgardie briefly became Premier of Western Australia. Albert Thomas, also of Coolgardie, was elected the first Member of Dundas, an electoral division south of Coolgardie.\n\nHowever, the gold began to decrease in the early 1900s, and by World War I, the town was in serious decline. The federal electorate was abolished in 1913 due to the diminished population, as many of its residents left for other towns where the gold was still plentiful, and it soon ceased to be a municipality. The situation remained unchanged throughout the century, as its population slipped to around 200 and it became a virtual ghost town. An example of this decline is that, in March 1896, Coolgardie's main street was lit by an electric light, but by April 1924, the same street was lit by four hurricane lamps.\n\nDespite this, many of the buildings from the town's peak were retained, which in recent years has helped start a small revival in the town's fortunes. The development of a tourist industry has once again created some employment in the town, resulting in a small increase in population. Coolgardie appears to be no longer in danger of dying.\n\nWhen the Coolgardie gold rush occurred in 1894, the Afghan cameleers (so-called, although some of them did not originate in Afghanistan) were quick to move in. The goldfields could not have continued without the food and water they transported. In March that year, a caravan of six Afghans, forty-seven camels and eleven calves, set out across the desert from Marree to the goldfield. It arrived in July with the camels, carrying between 135 and 270 kilograms each, in good condition. Another fifty-eight camels for Coolgardie arrived by ship in Albany in September.\n\nBy 1898 there were 300 members of the Muslim community in Coolgardie and 80 on average attended Friday prayer. Coolgardie held the main Muslim community in the colony at that time. There was not one Muslim woman amongst them, no marriages were performed and no burials, reflecting a relatively young and transient population.\n\nSimilar to the other structures, simple mud and tin-roofed mosques were initially constructed in the town. All of the Afghan Muslim population eventually relocated from Coolgardie generally to Perth, the new capital of Western Australia. Racism was very common towards the Afghan cameleers, there were reports of unsolved murders and torture of Afghan owned animals.\n\nGreat Eastern Highway (\"National Highway 94\") runs through the town as Bayley Street. Just to the town's east, Highway 94 turns south onto Coolgardie-Esperance Highway, which heads towards Norseman, the starting point of the route east across the Nullarbor Plain.\n\nOriginally the narrow gauge railway to Kalgoorlie, the Eastern Goldfields Railway passed through Coolgardie, until 1968, when the new standard gauge line was built to the north on a new route.\n\nThe Transwa Prospector train stops 14 km north of the town at Bonnie Vale. There is a very limited public bus service to the town on the Kalgoorlie to Perth route, although school bus services are more frequent.\n\nIn the 1890s four goldfields were gazetted with Coolgardie as reference point:\n\n\nDespite the changes to the Kalgoorlie region, Coolgardie still has a Mining Registrar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312402", "title": "Paris Protocol (1952)", "text": "Paris Protocol (1952)\n\nOn 28 August 1952 the then NATO member states signed the Paris Protocol in Paris.\nIts official title is \"On the Status of International Military Headquarters Set up Pursuant to the North Atlantic Treaty\" and it establishes\nthe status of allied and national headquarters and respective procedures. The Protocol is part of the so-called NATO legal acquis.\n\nAll NATO member states have ratified the protocol, except Canada, which signed but did not ratify it. France ratified the protocol in 1955 but denounced its ratification in 1966.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312405", "title": "Anna Bligh", "text": "Anna Bligh\n\nAnna Maria Bligh (born 14 July 1960) is a former Australian politician who served as the 37th Premier of Queensland, in office from 2007 to 2012 as leader of the Labor Party. She was the first woman to hold either position.\n\nBligh was born in Warwick, Queensland, and studied at the University of Queensland. Before entering politics she worked for various community organisations. Bligh entered the Queensland Legislative Assembly at the 1995 state election, winning the seat of South Brisbane. She was promoted to the ministry in 1998, under Peter Beattie, and became deputy premier in 2005 and state treasurer in 2006. Bligh succeeded Beattie as premier in 2007 – Queensland's first female premier and Australia's third. She led Labor to victory at the 2009 state election, but at the 2012 election suffered a landslide defeat and announced her retirement from politics. From 2010 to 2011, Bligh was National President of the Australian Labor Party. In 2017, she was appointed CEO of the Australian Banking Association.\n\nBligh was born in Warwick, Queensland. She is a descendant of William Bligh, who is famous for the Mutiny on the \"Bounty\" and being the 4th Governor of New South Wales. Bligh grew up on the Gold Coast. Her parents separated when she was 13. She attended Catholic schools until Year 9 and considered becoming a nun. One of her aunts became a nun and another had entered a convent. However, the church's attitude towards divorced people (her mother was no longer permitted to take Communion) reportedly estranged her and her mother from the church.\n\nStudying at the University of Queensland from 1978, Bligh gained a Bachelor of Arts. Bligh traces her politicisation to her first year at University, observing a right-to-march rally in King George Square where people were being hit over the head by the police. Bligh's first involvement in activism was student protests against the Vice-Chancellor Brian Wilson's controversial administrative restructuring within the university. She then went on to be involved in the Women's Rights Collective which campaigned for legalised abortion against the anti-abortion policies of the Bjelke-Petersen government. Bligh's next role was as Women's Vice-President of the Student Union. She then ran an election ticket called EAT (Education Action Team) in an unsuccessful bid to oust the faction in charge, headed by the future Goss government identity David Barbagallo. Law student Paul Lucas, Bligh's future deputy premier, was a part of Barbagallo's team. Her 1982 team included the former Minister for Education, Training and the Arts Rod Welford. Anne Warner, who was a future Minister in the Goss Government, was an office holder at the time in the Union. Warner soon become one of Bligh's key political mentors.\n\nShe subsequently worked in a number of community organisations, including child care services, neighbourhood centres, women's refuges and trade unions as well as in the Queensland Public Service.\n\nBligh was the secretary of the Labor Party's Fairfield branch in 1987.\n\nBligh was first elected to parliament at the 1995 election to the safe Labor seat of South Brisbane, succeeding Anne Warner. A member of the Socialist Left faction of the Labor Party, she was promoted to the ministry following the election of the Beattie government in 1998 as Minister for Families, Youth and Community Care and Disability Services. In 2001, Bligh became Queensland's first female Education Minister. She assumed additional responsibility for the Arts portfolio in 2004.\n\nIn July 2005, the retirement of the Deputy Premier and Treasurer Terry Mackenroth forced a cabinet reshuffle, which saw Bligh promoted to the office of Deputy Premier and Minister for Finance, State Development, Trade and Innovation. Bligh's appointment as Deputy Premier coincided with her election to parliament ten years earlier. In early February 2006, Bligh also gained the Treasury portfolio after Beattie relinquished the responsibility to focus on attempting to fix the state's troubled health system. \n\nBligh had long been touted as a likely successor to the long-running Premier Peter Beattie, and he publicly endorsed her as his replacement when he announced his retirement from politics on 10 September 2007.\n\nShe was subsequently nominated unopposed by the Labor caucus in a deal that saw Paul Lucas from the Right faction succeed her as Deputy Premier. She became the leader of the Labor Party on 12 September. After Beattie formally resigned on 13 September 2007, Bligh was sworn in by the then Governor Quentin Bryce. Bligh led Labor to victory in the 2009 state election. Bligh lost eight seats from the large majority she'd inherited from Beattie, and also suffered an eight-percent swing on the two-party vote. Nonetheless, due largely to taking 34 out of 40 seats in Brisbane, Labor still won 51 seats out of 89, enough for a comfortable majority. The election marked the Queensland ALP's eighth consecutive election win; the party has been in government for all but two years since 1989.\n\nIn winning the election, Bligh became Australia's first popularly elected female premier. The two previous female premiers, Carmen Lawrence (Western Australia 1990–93) and Joan Kirner (Victoria 1990–92), became premiers following the resignation of male premiers (as Bligh did), but both were defeated at the following respective state elections. However, Bligh is not Australia's first popularly elected female head of government. Rosemary Follett and Kate Carnell were both popularly elected as Chief Minister of the Australian Capital Territory, and Clare Martin was elected as Chief Minister of the Northern Territory.\n\nIn 2009, Bligh was elected to the three person presidential team of the Australian Labor Party, to serve until July 2012. She served as National President of the Australian Labor Party for the 2010–11 financial year.\n\nBligh announced the privatisation of five government owned corporations:\nMore than 3,000 workers were to be offered voluntary redundancies, just three months after the privatisation of QR National.\n\nQueensland Motorways Limited and Forestry Plantations Queensland were not being sold, but rather being leased for an estimated 50-year lease. Since this announcement, the Queensland Government announced plans to sell Queensland Rail to the public.\n\nRevenues from privatisation were estimated at approximately $15 billion, to go towards balancing Queensland's state budget.\n\nThe sale of these assets aimed at removing significant overheads from the Queensland government's debt portfolio, allowing further growth of the government's capital assets, as well as aiding the government to return to its AAA credit rating. Bligh has faced resistance from both within her party and the trade union movement, but has defended her privatisation plan as 'not negotiable'.\n\nThe 2009 annual state conference of the Australian Labor Party – Queensland Branch, passed a motion, moved by Treasurer Andrew Fraser MP, seconded by Parliamentary Secretary for Healthy Living Murray Watt MP, supporting the sale of the assets, recognising that the sale will allow the Queensland Government to grow its asset portfolio, as well as retire debt.\n\nIn October 2006, then Queensland Premier Peter Beattie, commissioned research to see if daylight saving should be re-introduced into Queensland on a trial basis. On 1 October 2007 Bligh ruled out holding a new referendum, despite this government-commissioned report indicating that 59% of Queensland residents and 69% of South East Queenslanders support daylight saving.\n\nOn 14 April 2010, the independent member for Nicklin, Peter Wellington, introduced the Daylight Saving for South East Queensland Referendum Bill 2010 into Queensland Parliament, calling for a referendum to be held at the next state election on the introduction of daylight saving for South East Queensland only, with the remainder of the state maintaining standard time. In response to the bill, Bligh announced a community consultation process, which resulted in over 74,000 respondents participating, 64 percent of whom voted in favour of a trial and 63% were in favour of holding a referendum. On 7 June, after reviewing the favourable consultation results, Bligh announced that her government would not support the bill, because regional Queenslanders were overwhelmingly opposed to daylight saving. The bill was defeated in Queensland Parliament on 15 June 2011.\n\nBligh's management of and performance during the 2010–11 Queensland floods was widely approved. Labor had been well behind the LNP, led by John-Paul Langbroek, for most of the time since the fall of 2010. However, the following Newspoll saw a record turnaround in Bligh and Labor's fortunes. Labor rose from a two-party deficit of 41–59 to a lead of 52–48, with Bligh's personal satisfaction-dissatisfaction standing going from a negative 24–67 to a positive 49–43. Bligh's recovery in the polls was a factor behind Langbroek being forced to stand down in favour of Brisbane Lord Mayor Campbell Newman. Newman had become a national figure during the floods, and polling showed he was the only non-Labor politician who even came close to matching Bligh's popularity during that time.\n\nHowever, Newman was not a member of parliament, and a by-election could not be arranged to allow him to get a seat in the chamber. For this reason, Jeff Seeney was elected as interim parliamentary leader of the LNP while Newman led the LNP's election team and simultaneously contested the Labor-held seat of Ashgrove. Bligh harshly criticised Newman's move, saying it was irresponsible for Newman to \"cut and run\" from his post as Lord Mayor while Queensland was still rebuilding. She also hinted that she might call an election a year before it was due. She had previously promised not to call an election for 2011 to focus on recovery, but was concerned that the unorthodox leadership arrangement on the opposition side could make the co-operation necessary for the recovery effort impossible.\n\nOn 25 January, Bligh announced an election for 24 March. It was the first time in Queensland history that the voters knew the election date in advance of the parliament being dissolved. Bligh made this decision after learning that the Commission of Inquiry into the 2010–11 Queensland floods would not release its final report until 16 March, rather than the middle of February as originally planned. She wanted Queenslanders to see the report before they went to the polls.\n\nBligh asked Governor Penny Wensley to dissolve parliament on 19 February, formally beginning the 35-day campaign. She began the race as an underdog; the LNP had regained a substantial lead in polling since Newman took the leadership.\n\nBligh was dogged throughout the campaign by the perception that she'd misled voters about the asset sales. With Labor sinking in the polls, Bligh conceded in a 13 March interview with the \"Brisbane Times\" that in all likelihood, Labor would not be re-elected. The final Newspoll of the campaign appeared to confirm this, showing Labor's support had sunk to only 39.2 percent.\n\nAt 24 March election, Labor suffered one of the largest electoral wipeouts in Australian history, and the worst defeat that a sitting government in Queensland has ever suffered, double the previous record-holder of the 1989 election. Labor was reduced from 51 seats to seven, suffering a swing of more than 15 points. This was largely because of a near-total meltdown in Brisbane, which had been Labor's power base for over two decades. The party lost all but three of its seats in the capital, in some cases suffering swings of over 10 percent. Bligh herself suffered a 9-point swing in South Brisbane, and she only overcame her LNP challenger on Green preferences. Ten members of her cabinet were defeated. It was only the sixth time since 1915 that Queenslanders have thrown a government from office in an election.\n\nThe next day, with Labor's defeat beyond doubt, Bligh announced she was retiring from politics. She had intended to stay in parliament, but said that the severity of Labor's defeat made her realise the party could not \"develop an effective opposition\" with her even as a backbencher. She resigned as both premier and state Labor leader that day, and handed her resignation to Wensley the same afternoon, to take effect from 30 March 2012. Bligh had intended that the timing of her resignation would allow a by-election to be held on 28 April 2012, the same day as local government elections. She was ultimately succeeded as state Labor leader by her Transport Minister, Annastacia Palaszczuk.\n\nLater reports suggested that Bligh would not be able to formally resign from Parliament until the writ of election for South Brisbane was returned, meaning that a by-election would be too late to coincide with the Brisbane City Council election. But on 2 April, she was declared the winner, and a writ was subsequently issued for the by-election.\n\nIn 2014, Bligh was appointed CEO of YWCA New South Wales. In 2017, she was made CEO of the Australian Banking Association.\n\nBligh is married to Greg Withers, a senior public servant, with whom she has two sons, Joe and Oliver, both of whom attended Brisbane State High School.\n\nBligh appeared as a contestant on \"Celebrity MasterChef Australia\" in 2009. She was eliminated in her first heat, losing to the eventual winner of the series, swimmer Eamon Sullivan.\n\nOn 8 June 2013, Bligh announced that she had been diagnosed with non-Hodgkin lymphoma.\n\nBligh's memoir, \"\"Through The Wall\"\", was published in April 2015.\n\nIn 2017 Bligh was appointed a Companion of the Order of Australia for eminent service to the Parliament of Queensland, particularly as Premier, to infrastructure development and education reform, as an advocate for the role of women in public life, and to the not-for-profit sector.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312415", "title": "Therapeutic Products Directorate", "text": "Therapeutic Products Directorate\n\nTherapeutic Products Directorate (TPD) is a Canadian federal authority that regulates pharmaceutical drugs and medical devices for human use. Prior to being given market authorization, a manufacturer must present substantive scientific evidence of a product's safety, efficacy, and quality as required by the Food and Drugs Act and Regulations. It is one of the seven operational directorates of the Health Products and Food Branch, a branch of Health Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312419", "title": "Rips the Covers Off", "text": "Rips the Covers Off\n\nRips the Covers Off, some copies of which are titled Rips Off the Covers, is an album by Phil Lewis's version of L.A. Guns, their first with guitarist Stacey Blades.\n\nThe studio portion of the album (songs 1-11) consists of cover songs with guitarist Stacey Blades, though songs 12 and 13 are live versions of \"Revolution\" and \"Don't Look at Me That Way\", with guitarists Keri Kelli and Brent Muscat.\n\nA different line-up of L.A. Guns had previously recorded a cover of Led Zeppelin's \"Custard Pie\" on \"Hollywood Rehearsal\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312426", "title": "Yusuf al-Azma", "text": "Yusuf al-Azma\n\nYusuf al-Azma (, ALA-LC: \"Yūsuf al-ʿAẓma\"; 1883 – 24 July 1920) was the Syrian minister of war in the governments of prime ministers Rida al-Rikabi and Hashim al-Atassi, and the Arab Army's chief of general staff under King Faisal. He served as minister of war from January 1920 until his death while commanding Syrian forces against a French invasion during the Battle of Maysalun.\n\nAl-Azma hailed from a wealthy Damascene landowning family. He became an officer in the Ottoman Army and fought on multiple fronts in World War I. After the defeated Ottomans withdrew from Damascus, al-Azma served Emir Faisal, the leader of the Arab Revolt, and was appointed minister of war upon the establishment of the Arab government in Damascus in January 1920. He was tasked with building the nascent Arab Army of Syria. The country, meanwhile, had been designated as a mandatory territory of France, which did not recognize Faisal's government. Al-Azma was among the more vociferous opponents of French rule and as their troops advanced toward Damascus from Lebanon, he was authorized to confront them. Leading a motley army of civilian volunteers, ex-Ottoman officers and Bedouin cavalrymen, al-Azma engaged the French at Maysalun Pass but was killed in action and his soldiers dispersed, which allowed the French to occupy Damascus on 25 July 1920. Though his army was defeated, al-Azma became a national hero in Syria for his insistence on confronting the French despite their clear military superiority and his ultimate death in the ensuing battle.\n\nAl-Azma was born to a prominent mercantile and landowning Damascene family of Turkmen descent in 1883. Members of his family formed part of the Ottoman Syrian establishment; al-Azma's brother Aziz Bey served as a district governor while many of his relatives were Ottoman officers, including al-Azma's nephew Nabih Bey. Al-Azma was married to a Turkish woman, with whom he had a daughter named Laila. The latter, who was a young child when al-Azma died, married Cevad Asar, an Istanbul-based Turkish merchant with whom she had a son named Celal. Many members of the al-Azma family in Syria later became bankers, landowners and merchants in post-Mandatory Syria and one member, Bashir al-Azma, served as prime minister of Syria in 1962.\n\nAl-Azma graduated from the Istanbul-based Ottoman Military Academy in 1906 and was a member of the underground reformist Committee of Union and Progress. After graduating, he underwent additional military training in Germany until returning to Istanbul in 1909. From there he was promptly assigned as a military attaché to Cairo, Egypt. In 1914, al-Azma was commander of the Ottoman Army‘s 25th Infantry Division during World War I. Later during the war, he was reassigned as a deputy of War Minister Enver Pasha in Istanbul.\n\nToward the war's end, al-Azma was appointed chief of staff of the Istanbul-based First Ottoman Army according to historian Phillip S. Khoury, or chief of staff of the Ottoman army in the Caucasus according to historian Ruth Roded. According to historian Michael Provence, it is \"widely believed\" that soon after this post, al-Azma joined the Arab Revolt against the Ottomans launched by Sharif Hussein of Mecca in 1916, \"but he actually served as a decorated Ottoman frontline officer until October 1918\". That month, Damascus was captured by the Arab Revolt's British-backed Sharifian Army led by Hussein's son Emir Faisal. Al-Azma subsequently returned to Damascus. He joined al-Fatat, an Arab nationalist secret society founded in 1911, though it is not apparent when, and became a personal chamberlain of Emir Faisal. Unlike other ex-Ottoman officers from the empire's Arab lands who had hailed almost exclusively from modest upbringings, al-Azma came from the upper urban class. In January 1919, Faisal appointed al-Azma as Damascus' military delegate to Beirut.\n\nIn Prime Minister Rida al-Rikabi's government, al-Azma was promoted to minister of war and on 26 January 1920 was also appointed Chief of General Staff by Emir Faisal to replace Yasin al-Hashimi, who had been arrested by British forces and detained in Palestine. Al-Azma's Damascene roots and reputation as a local and decorated Ottoman wartime general made him \"an obvious choice for minister of war\", according to Provence, despite having fought against the Arab Revolt months prior. During his time in office, al-Azma established the foundations and hierarchy of the modern-day Syrian Army, according to historian Sami Moubayed. He gathered arms and ammunition left behind by the Ottoman Army in Syria, raised funds for new weaponry and by mid-1920, had created a military force of some 10,000 men, primarily consisting of Bedouin volunteers and former Ottoman officers.\n\nFaisal declared the Arab Kingdom of Syria in March 1920. However, in the secret 1916 Sykes–Picot Agreement between the United Kingdom and France, the two powers negotiated the division of the Ottomans' Arab territories between themselves, and the League of Nations gave France a Mandate over Syria in April 1920. Afterwards, two principal camps emerged in the Syrian government; the minority faction favored a compromise with France due to its military superiority over the Arab forces (especially since the British withdrew their backing for King Faisal), while the majority faction rejected French rule by all means. Al-Rikabi led the minority faction while the majority camp was led by al-Azma and supported by other young former Ottoman officers. Most of the Syrian government, including Foreign Minister Abd al-Rahman Shahbandar, backed al-Azma's faction.\n\nFrench forces commanded by General Henri Gouraud had landed in Beirut on 18 November 1919. Gouraud was determined to bring all of Syria under French control and demanded the immediate deployment of French forces to the Beqaa Valley between Beirut and Damascus. Against King Faisal's wishes, his delegate to General Gouraud, Nuri al-Said, agreed to the French deployment. However, when a French officer was assaulted by Shia Muslim rebels opposed to the French presence, Gouraud violated his agreement with al-Said and occupied the large town of Baalbek. The French deployment along the Syrian coast and the Beqaa Valley contributed to unrest throughout Syria and sharpened political divisions between al-Azma's camp and those who sought compromise with the French.\n\nIn northern Syria, an Alawite revolt led by Saleh al-Ali and a revolt in the Aleppo region led by Ibrahim Hananu were launched in response to the French presence. On 10 December 1919, Prime Minister al-Rikabi resigned amid pressure by the nationalists and popular opinion. The revolts derived military support from Mustafa Kemal's insurgents in Anatolia and from Faisal's government. In June 1920, al-Azma toured northern Syria to recruit more soldiers into the nascent Arab Army and establish connections with the Anatolian insurgency. Al-Azma sensed resistance to his conscription campaign, particularly in Aleppo, but managed to gather some troops. French forces later occupied parts of northern Syria in early July 1920.\n\nOn 13 July, al-Azma declared emergency measures in the Syrian National Congress, including press censorship, the power to seize civilian vehicles for military use and a call for militias across the country to support the army. Inspired by Kemal's successes against the French in Turkey, al-Azma sought to follow in the latter's path in Syria. Meanwhile, al-Hashimi had returned to the country from Palestine and was tasked with inspecting al-Azma's troops. He concluded that the Arab Army was woefully unprepared and under-equipped for a serious confrontation against the French Army. In a meeting of King Faisal's war cabinet, al-'Azma was visibly upset with al-Hashimi's conclusions. Regardless, he ultimately conceded that the army was in a precarious situation when informed that the lack of ammunition meant that each soldier would only be allotted 270 bullets for their rifle and each artillery piece could only be allotted eight shells. Despite this, all of the officers in the meeting declared their willingness to fight. According to Provence, both al-Azma and al-Hashimi \"complained bitterly that they faced an impossible task in organizing defense, made all the more difficult by Faisal's refusal to seriously contemplate and prepare for military confrontation\". In the struggle against France, both officers sought to implement the model of Kemal's Anatolian insurgency while Faisal continued, in vain, to seek an intervention by his erstwhile British allies.\n\nOn 14 July, France issued an ultimatum to the Syrian government to disband its army and submit to French control. On 18 July, King Faisal and the Syrian cabinet met and all ministers except for al-Azma agreed not to enter into war with the French. After King Faisal ratified the cabinet's decision, al-Azma withdrew his troops from Anjar, the hills overlooking the Beqaa Valley from the east, and the Beirut-Damascus road. On 20 July, six hours prior to the ultimatum's deadline, King Faisal informed the French liaison in Damascus of his acceptance of Gouraud's terms. However, for unclear reasons, Faisal's notification did not reach Gouraud until 21 July. Sources suspicious of French intentions accused them of intentionally delaying delivery of the notice to give Gouraud a legitimate excuse for advancing on Damascus. However, there has been no evidence or indication of French sabotage. When news of Faisal's submission to the French and his disbandment of Arab Army barracks in Damascus reached the populace, outrage ensued. A riot by soldiers and residents angry at King Faisal's decision was violently put down by Emir Zeid, resulting in some 200 deaths. Al-Azma rejected demands to disband the army and implored King Faisal for an opportunity to confront French forces.\n\nAbout 12,000 French troops consisting of ten infantry battalions as well as cavalrymen and artillerymen backed by tanks and fighter bombers, began their advance on Damascus on 21 July. They first captured Anjar in the Beqaa Valley, where General Hassan al-Hindi's brigade had disbanded without a fight. The French advance surprised King Faisal who believed that French military action would be avoided by his agreement to the 14 July ultimatum as General Gouraud had promised. In response to Gouraud's action, King Faisal agreed to al-Azma's request for mobilization. About 300 of Hindi's disbanded troops from Anjar were ordered to re-mobilize at the Maysalun Pass, some 12 miles to the west of Damascus. Al-Azma managed to assemble a few hundred regular troops, and around 1,000 volunteers, including Bedouin cavalry.\n\nOn 22 July, King Faisal attempted to delay the French advance by dispatching Minister of Education Sati al-Husri to negotiate with General Gouraud, who laid out new conditions to prevent his army's offensive and gave King Faisal one more day to deliberate on the terms. The next day, while the cabinet considered Gouraud's conditions, the French requested entry into Maysalun to access its water. The Syrians interpreted the request to be an excuse for Gouraud's army to enter Damascus without a fight and King Faisal ultimately rejected Gouraud's request and his new conditions. Afterward, al-Azma departed Damascus to confront Gouraud's army in what became known as the Battle of Maysalun.\n\nAl-Azma's troops in Maysalun were mostly equipped with rusted rifles left by Ottoman troops and rifles used by Bedouin irregulars during the 1916 Arab Revolt as well as 15 cannons. The Arab force was composed of northern, central and southern columns with camel cavalry at the head. Al-'Azma led the central column which was backed by numerous civilian volunteers. Around dawn, at the approaches of Maysalun, clashes between Arab forces and the French Army took place, but most Arab resistance, which was largely uncoordinated, had collapsed by the first hour of battle. The Syrians had used up the little ammunition they had and the militarily superior French Army broke the Arab lines.\n\nAround 10:30am French forces reached al-Azma's headquarters. The mines that had been laid by the Syrians did not explode or at least did not seriously hinder the incoming French forces. With French troops about 100 meters away from him, al-Azma rushed to an artilleryman and commanded him to fire at the French tanks. Before any shell was fired, al-Azma was fatally shot in the head and chest by machine gun fire from a French tank crew. He was the only Arab officer to die in the battle. Sporadic clashes continued for another three hours. By then, Arab forces had retreated in disarray towards Damascus. The French Army entered the city on 25 July. In his memoirs, General Gouraud wrote that after their defeat the Syrian troops left \"behind 15 cannons, 40 rifles, and a general ... named Yusuf Bey al-'Azma. He died a courageous soldier's death in battle.\"\n\nAl-Azma's refusal to surrender to the French, his insistence on entering battle with inferior forces and his death commanding the Syrians in Maysalun made him a hero in Syria and the Arab world. According to Khoury, al-Azma was \"henceforth immortalized by Syrians as the supreme national martyr\". Likewise, Provence states al-Azma \"became the supreme symbol of interwar Syrian Arab patriotism\". His statue stands in a major square named after him in central Damascus, with streets and schools named in his honor throughout Syria. Statues of al-Azma are also present across the Middle East. According to historian Tareq Y. Ismael, the defeat of al-Azma and the subsequent French takeover of Syria contributed to a popular attitude in the Arab world that exists until the present day which holds that \"the West is not honorable in its commitments, speaks with a forked tongue about issues of democracy ... and will oppress anyone who stands in the way of its imperial designs\".\n\nA tomb for al-Azma was erected inside a shaded grove at Maysalun in the 1930s. Though it has been frequently renovated, the original structure of the tomb remains largely intact. It consists of a stone sarcophagus elevated on a platform. One side of the platform has a stairway and the other side is a concrete column which carries a large concrete roof that is further supported by a beam. The sarcophagus has a triangular roof upon which is engraved the Zulfiqar sword. The Syrian military annually honors al-Azma at his tomb on Maysalun Day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312440", "title": "Mišo Kovač", "text": "Mišo Kovač\n\nMate \"Mišo\" Kovač (born 16 July 1941) is a Croatian country-pop, pop-folk and schlager singer. He is the best selling artist from Croatia and the former Yugoslavia, with well over 20 million records, cassettes and compact discs sold to date and is often regarded as one of the most popular musical performers from Eastern Europe.\n\nMate Kovač, better known as Mišo Kovač, was born to Zrinka and Jakov Kovač on 16 July 1941, in Šibenik. He had a sister named Blanka and a brother named Ratko.\n\nDuring his youth Mišo Kovač lived in the same street in Šibenik as musicians Vice Vukov (1936–2008) and Arsen Dedić (1938–2015). He made the HNK Šibenik junior team as a goalkeeper, but he barracked for Hajduk Split and often travelled by boat from Šibenik to Split on game day just to see them play. His earliest goals in life were to eventually represent Hajduk Split, but that all changed at the age of 16 when he heard Ljubo Lučev sing and then devoted himself entirely to music. His early musical influences were Italian artists Luciano Tajoli, Tony Dellaga and Adriano Celentano, as well as American singers, Johnnie Ray, Elvis Presley, and later Willie Nelson. In 1961, he shared equal first place with Mirko Vukšić, future guitarist with Croatian group Mi (We), in a talent contest called \"Prvi glas Šibenika\" (\"First voice of Šibenik\"), where he covered an Elvis Presley hit.\n\nHe then served in the Yugoslav Army, being stationed at Belgrade, where he sang every Saturday night to his fellow conscripts and friends. After military service he went to live in Zagreb, hoping to develop his career. His first big break came in 1964 at a talent contest in Karlovac, where he was noticed by leading music producers after singing \"Ne mogu prestat da te volim\" (his rendition of I Can't Stop Loving You by Ray Charles), which also became his first recording soon after.\n\nIn very short time four of his singles/EP's were certified Silver (with sales of over 50,000) - they included: \"Ja odlazim\" (\"I'm Leavin\"'; 1966 EP), \"Vrijeme plakanja\" (\"Crying time\"; 1967 EP), San Francisko (\"San Francisco\"; 1968 EP) and \"Da je duži moj dan\" (If I only had Time; 1968).\n\nHis first huge hit came in 1969 with the song, \"Više se nećeš vratiti\" (\"You won't be coming back\"), written by Đorđe Novković and selling well over 400,000 copies (later re-recorded in 1985), as well as a Gold disc award for \"Čemu da živim\" (\"What should I live for\"), and in 1970 he earned another Silver disc award with \"Serenada\" (\"Seranade\").\n\nIn 1971, he won his first prestigious Split Festival with the song, \"Proplakat će zora\" (\"Dawn will cry\"), which went on to sell well over half a million copies and could be the best selling single ever in the former Yugoslavia (but very difficult to prove since the war). Mišo donated all his earnings from the song to building a new highway from Zagreb to Split. He also gained two other Silver disc awards in 1971 with the hits, \"Mornaru za sretan put\" (\"Sailor have a safe trip\") and \"Za mene sreće nema\" (\"There is no luck for me\"). He also released his first album in 1971, self-titled, and it eventually earned him a Platinum award for sales of well over 200,000 copies.\n\nHe nearly died in a car accident near Zadar in 1971 when his car was completely destroyed and as a result he had a scar above his upper lip. During his recovery Mišo decided to let his moustache grow to hide his scar, and the moustache later became his trademark.\n\nIn 1972, Mišo went to see one of his idols, Elvis Presley, perform live at New York's Madison Square Garden, and the King's rendition of Frank Sinatra hit, \"My Way\" left a lasting impression on him. In the same year back at home he was awarded another Gold disc award with, \"Zalij to cvijeće suzama sreće\" (\"Pour this flower with tears of happiness\").\n\nAnother Gold Disc award came in 1974 with the hit, \"Drugi joj raspliće kosu, a ja je volim\" (\"Somebody else untangles her hair but I love her\"; with sales of well over 100,000). The following year he recorded \"Ostala si uvijek ista\" (\"You remained always the same\"), which Mišo later claimed was his personal best recording of his career. That song was re-issued ten years later on an album with the same title which sold well over 400,000 copies (certified Diamond award and went on to be his best selling album ever).\n\nFurther gold discs followed, with \"Noćas ćemo zemlji k'o materi reći\" (\"Tonight our homeland will be spoken of like our mothers\") in 1977, \"Dobar ti večer, mati moja\" (\"Good evening, to my mother\") in 1980, \"Dalmacija u mom oku\" (\"Dalmatia in my eyes\") in 1982 which is still seen as a semi-official anthem of Dalmatia, although it didn't even make the national charts when first released but a live version hit #2 in 1988, and \"Šibenske kale\" (\"Streets of Šibenik\") in 1982. Then, between 1985-88 he issued some of his biggest hits and well known songs like, \"Ako me ostaviš\" (\"If you leave me\"), \"Jedan dan života\" (\"One day of life\"), \"Sutra me sude\" (\"Tomorrow they will judge me\"), \"Odavno više ne plačem zbog tebe\" (\"I stopped crying long ago about you\"), \"Ja nemam više razloga da živim\" (\"I don't have any reason to live\"), \"Ti si pjesma moje duše\" (Seven Spanish Angels, title translates as \"You're the song of my soul\"), \"Svi pjevaju, ja ne čujem\" (\"Everybody's singing, but I can't hear\") and many others.\n\nFour of his albums released in the 1980s earned Platinum awards with sales of over 200,000, with \"Dalmacija u mom oku\" (\"Dalmatia in my eyes\") in 1982, \"Zajedno smo\" (\"We are together\") in 1984, \"Malo mi je jedan život\" (\"One life is too short\") in 1987 and \"Mišo! Koncert\" (\"Mišo! Concert\"), recorded live in 1988.\n\nIn the next two decades, Mišo Kovač won many prestigious festival awards, topped music charts (albeit not so much the national Yugoslavian charts) and sold well over 20 million records during his long and successful career (ultimately making him the biggest ever selling artist in the former Yugoslavia).\n\nMišo Kovač divorced his first wife Ljubica Komadina after four years of marriage, and in 1973 he married former Miss Teen Yugoslavia of 1970, Anita Baturina (b. 1953), with whom he had two children, a son Eduard 'Edi' Kovač (1975–1992) and a daughter Ivana Kovač (b. 1977), also a renowned singer in her own right.\n\nHis life and career turned sour with the outbreak of war in Croatia and his first appearance on Croatian Radiotelevision after the collapse of Yugoslavia occurred in 1991 during Croatian War of Independence when Mišo Kovač showed his reluctant patriotism with a song inspired by attacks from the Krajina Serbs and JNA on his native Šibenik, \"Grobovi im nikad oprostiti neće\" (\"The graves will never forgive them\").\n\nAt the same time Kovač's son, Edi, joined the special unit of Croatian Army called \"Škorpioni\" (\"The Scorpions\") and in 1992 he was fatally shot in Zagreb in controversial circumstances, with his death being officially declared as an accident. Mišo Kovač was deeply affected by the tragedy and refused to believe the official reason for his sons death. He claimed that his son was murdered and his quest to find his son's killers got him involved with the Croatian Party of Rights. He began to support the party and appear at their rallies, dressing in the black uniform of the Croatian Defence Forces (HOS), the party's militia. He also changed his professional name from \"Mišo\" to \"Mate\" (for only a short time).\n\nThe death of his son had a devastating effect on his personal life and marriage, and in 1996 he divorced Anita Baturina, followed by years of alcohol abuse and severe depression caused him to try and commit suicide by shooting himself in the chest in 1999. After fully recovering and returning to the music scene, he married Lydia Pintarić. Kovač often spoke about his loyalty and gratitude to Lydia and the importance of their relationship and marriage she had towards his recovery.\n\nHe's also been quoted as saying that he still only needs \"a carton of tobacco, 5 coffees, half a pizza and one coca-cola drink to survive each day\", which he made when the media in Croatia issued reports that all the money he earned during his fame has been spent on the many women he loved in his life and that he was penniless.\n\nIn 2012, Institut hrvatske glazbe (Institute of Croatian Music) presented Mišo Kovač with the 'Porin za životno djelo' (Porin award for life achievement), and he still enjoys the reputation and fame of a musical legend and has many loyal fans all over the former Yugoslavia.\n\nIn 2016, he released a new haunting single, \"Takav sam rođen\" (\"That's how I was born\"), which can be viewed as a wonderful tribute to his own life.\n\nAlso in 2016, his 1987 hit \"Poljubi zemlju\" (\"Kiss the ground\") was played on the Mars Rover Curiosity, and for the first time ever a Croatian song was played on another planet.\n\nAt the 2019 Humanitarian Concert in honor of Croatian music called \"To je moja zemlja\" (That's my Country) which was held at Stadion Poljud in Split, a special award was presented to Kovač for being the most popular performer of all-time. His daughter Ivana Kovač proudly accepted the award on his behalf.\n\nAfter winning the 1980 Split Festival, Mišo Kovač declared he wouldn't appear in any other song festivals from now on. He won the festival five times, more than any other artist in the former Yugoslavia at the time, and three of those songs that won (1971, 1977, 1980) also topped the nationwide music charts in Yugoslavia.\n\n1969 - Bez tebe nisam sretan [Without you I'm not happy] - written by Ivica Krajač and Alfi Kabiljo\n\n1970 - Serenada [Seranade] - written by Vinko Lesić\n\n1971 - Proplakat će zora [Dawn will cry] - written by Dragutin Britvić and Stjepan Mihaljinec: 1st place (No. 1 HIT)\n\n1972 - Odvest ću te na vjenčanje [I will take you to a wedding] - written by Stjepan Mihaljinec (No. 18 HIT)\n\n1973 - Bijela lađa [White ship] - written by Tomislav Zuppa and Zdenko Runjić\n\n1974 - Obala mojih snova [The coast of my dreamland] - written by Đorđe Novković and Dušan Šarac\n\n1975 - Ja ne mogu drugo nego da te ljubim [I can't do anything else except love you] - written by Drago Britvić: 1st place\n\n1976 - did not enter\n\n1977 - Noćas ćemo zemlji k'o materi reći [Tonight our homeland will be spoken of like our mothers] - written by Dragutin Britvić and Stjepan Mihaljinec: 1st place (No. 1 HIT)\n\n1978 - Šuti srce, mogli bi te čuti [Be quiet heart, we might hear you] - written by Dragutin Britvić\n\n1979 - Ne tuguj, Dalmacijo [Don't grieve, Dalmatia] - written by Gordan Franić and Teo Trumbić: 1st place (No. 2 HIT)\n\n1980 - Dobra ti večer, mati moja [Good evening, to my mother] - written by Krsto Juras and Dušan Šarac: 1st place (No. 1 HIT)\n"}
{"id": "2312451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312451", "title": "Tahmoh Penikett", "text": "Tahmoh Penikett\n\nTahmoh Penikett (; ; born May 20, 1975) is a Canadian actor. He is known for playing Karl \"Helo\" Agathon on SyFy's 2004 television series \"Battlestar Galactica\". He has appeared in TV series \"Supernatural\", \"Dollhouse\", and the Showcase time travel show, \"Continuum\".\n\nPenikett was born in Whitehorse, Yukon. He is the son of former Yukon premier Tony Penikett, who moved to Victoria, British Columbia from England at age 12, and Lulla Sierra Johns, of the White River First Nation in the Yukon. He has two siblings, twin sisters Sarah and Stephanie. He graduated from the Victoria Motion Picture School and studied at the Lyric School of Acting in Vancouver.\n\nIn 2002, he had a brief appearance as one of the first Human-Form Replicators in the season 6 episode of \"Stargate SG-1\", \"Unnatural Selection\". From 2004-2005, Penikett portrayed Ray Chase, who appeared in eleven episodes of the Canadian police drama, \"Cold Squad\". He played a leading role as Noah Hamilton in the 2005 made-for-TV film \"Hush\" alongside actress Tori Spelling. He had a role in the video game \"\", as a street racer named Darius. He also appeared in four episodes of the television series \"Whistler\" as Elias Noth. Penikett also provided voice talent for antagonist Troy Hammerschmidt on the Adult Swim show \"Titan Maximum\". In 2010, Penikett played the lead role of Matt Ellman on Syfy's miniseries \"Riverworld\" an adaption of the science fiction books written by Philip José Farmer of the same name. He starred in the first two episodes of Warner Brothers' \"\" as Kurtis Stryker, which debuted in April on YouTube; he was replaced by Eric Jacobus for season 2.\n\nAmong his early acting work were stints on assorted Canadian TV series such as \"Cold Squad\". He also appeared on the TV show \"Smallville\", in the episode \"Resurrection\" in Season 3 as Vince Davis, and in the Season 6 episodes \"Nemesis\" and \"Prototype\" as Sgt. Wes Keenan. He portrayed a police officer for a predominantly gay neighbourhood in the 2004 \"The L Word\" episode \"Losing It\", which starred \"Battlestar Galactica\" co-star Nicki Clyne in a related storyline.\n\nIn 2003, the 1978 science fiction television series \"Battlestar Galactica\" was \"reimagined\" as a three-hour miniseries on the SciFi Channel. The miniseries was filmed in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, and Penikett, a local actor, auditioned and was cast in the part of Karl \"Helo\" Agathon, an officer in the Colonial Fleet. The miniseries proved highly successful, and a \"Battlestar Galactica\" series was commissioned.\nThe role was not based on a character in the original series, and was meant to be confined only to the miniseries; in the miniseries Helo is shown giving up a spot on a spaceship fleeing the doomed planet of Caprica, with the implication that he was left to die. However, both the producers and test audiences were sufficiently impressed with the character, and Penikett's performance, that the decision was made to make Helo a recurring character on the show. A plot that took place over much of the show's first season was that the Cylons on Caprica kept Helo alive in order to have him fall in love with, and impregnate, a Cylon (Helo was chosen because his crew partner, Sharon Valerii, was in fact a Cylon, and another copy of the same model was sent to pretend to be her). By the second season, his character had returned to the \"Galactica\"; as the father of the only successful human-Cylon hybrid; this character and his family became central to the show's mythology.\n\nIn 2009, Penikett was cast as Paul Ballard in Joss Whedon's science fiction drama television series \"Dollhouse\", which aired on Fox network Friday nights at 9:00. \n\n\"Dollhouse\" was canceled at the end of its second season, and the series finale aired on Friday, January 29, 2010. In 2012, he guest-starred as a politician named Jim Martin in the first season of Showcase's \"Continuum\". He returned as a recurring character in the second season of the show. In 2013, Penikett was cast on the CW TV series \"Supernatural\" as a fallen angel who claimed to be Ezekiel, appearing in the show's ninth season premiere. The character's real name was revealed as Gadreel in episode nine and Penikett reprised the role in episode ten. He has since reprised the roles in episodes eighteen, twenty-one and twenty-two. He also landed another recurring role on the mid-season drama \"Star-Crossed\", which premiered in February 2014.\n\nIn 2014, Penikett guest-starred in the 200th episode of \"Criminal Minds\" as Michael Hastings, an ex-CIA agent and leader of the terrorist group, The Regime Squad. Since 2014, he has also starred in the award-winning web series \"Riftworld Chronicles\".\n\nPenikett currently lives in Vancouver with his family.\n\nIn support of the Babz Chula Lifeline for Artists Society, which is raising money for their friend and fellow Canadian actor Chula's cancer treatment, Penikett and his \"Battlestar Galactica\" colleague Kandyse McClure auctioned off the opportunity to have dinner with both of them in Vancouver in April 2008.\n\nHe has taken Judo in his youth before switching to Muay Thai and has showcased his ability in various roles, including in \"Battlestar Galactica\" and most notably as Agent Ballard in the fight sequences in \"Dollhouse\", where he choreographed most of his own moves.\n"}
{"id": "2312454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312454", "title": "Hugh Walker (academic)", "text": "Hugh Walker (academic)\n\nHugh Walker (1855–1939) was a British university educator.\n\nHe was born in Kilbirnie, Scotland, on 7 January 1855. He attended Glasgow High School and then Glasgow University. At university he was awarded their medal in logic and moral philosophy, and achieved his MA. Walker then went on to study at Balliol College, Oxford, as Snell Exhibitioner, graduating with first class honours in Literary Humanities in 1883. He would go on to receive an Honorary LLD from Glasgow and an Honorary DLitt from the University of Wales.\n\nIn 1884, Walker was appointed Lecturer in English and Philosophy at St David's College, Lampeter (now the University of Wales, Trinity Saint David). In 1890, he was made Professor in these same subjects. Whilst at Lampeter, he regularly contributed to the college magazine. He loved the town and college dearly. He was mayor from 1900 to 1902, and the Vice-Principal's house on campus became affectionately known as 'Walker's House'. A Hall of Residence is also named after Walker.\n\nWalker published widely. His works include various books on English literature, along with frequent contributions to journals such as the Yale Review, Hibbert Journal and Chambers' Journal. He contributed to \"Cambridge Modern History\" and \"Cambridge History of English Literature\"\".\" \n\nWalker was married to Janie (nee Roxburgh). The couple had three daughters. \n\nWalker was given the opportunity to retire in 1930, but refused this. He died on 28 June 1939, still a member of staff at Lampeter..\n\n\"This list may be incomplete\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312455", "title": "Ductus venosus", "text": "Ductus venosus\n\nIn the fetus, the ductus venosus (Arantius' duct after Julius Caesar Aranzi) shunts a portion of umbilical vein blood flow directly to the inferior vena cava. Thus, it allows oxygenated blood from the placenta to bypass the liver. Compared to the 50% shunting of umbilical blood through the ductus venosus found in animal experiments, the degree of shunting in the human fetus under physiological conditions is considerably less, 30% at 20 weeks, which decreases to 18% at 32 weeks, suggesting a higher priority of the fetal liver than previously realized. In conjunction with the other fetal shunts, the foramen ovale and ductus arteriosus, it plays a critical role in preferentially shunting oxygenated blood to the fetal brain. It is a part of fetal circulation.\n\nThe pathway of fetal umbilical venous flow is umbilical vein to left portal vein to ductus venosus to inferior vena cava and eventually the right atrium. This anatomic course is important in the assessment of neonatal umbilical venous catheterization, as failure to cannulate through the ductus venosus results in malpositioned hepatic catheterization via the left or right portal veins. Complications of such positioning can include hepatic hematoma or abscess.\n\nThe ductus venosus is open at the time of birth and is the reason why umbilical vein catheterization works. The ductus venosus naturally closes during the first week of life in most full-term neonates; however, it may take much longer to close in pre-term neonates. Functional closure occurs within minutes of birth. Structural closure in term babies occurs within 3 to 7 days.\n\nAfter it closes, the remnant is known as ligamentum venosum.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312456", "title": "Beth Porter", "text": "Beth Porter\n\nBeth Jane Porter (born May 23, 1942) is an American stage, film and television actress and writer, who has worked in Britain for most of her career. She became a British citizen in 2014.\n\nBeth Porter made her first professional appearance at age 12 in a Westchester County touring company. She studied acting on scholarship at the Stratford Connecticut Shakespeare Festival and with Helen Menken at the American Theatre Wing before completing dramatic studies at Bard College, New York University, and Hunter College at The City University of New York [CUNY].\n\nAfter appearing in the American premiere of Jules Romain's Donogoo in 1961 at the Greenwich Mews Theatre, Isaac Babel's Sunset at the Chelsea Theater Center in 1966, and later that year as the star of David Starkweather's Ascent at The Playwrights Workshop, Porter was chosen as a member of original Obie Award-winning New York LaMaMa Troupe under director Tom O'Horgan (\"Hair\"), where she starred in the play and later film of \"Futz!\", and featured in Paul Foster's \"Tom Paine\" and \"Melodrama Play\" by Sam Shepard. A critic declared of her co-starring role in \"Futz!\": \"Beth Porter makes the Whore of Babylon look like the Singing Nun.\"\n\nEllen Stewart and Tom O'Horgan invited Porter and her Scots husband Peter Reid to co-found the first foreign branch of LaMaMa, based in the UK. Known as The Wherehouse La MaMa with Porter as its administrative director, it operated as a touring company throughout Europe and guest appearing at La MaMa New York. Porter featured in their plays, including \"Groupjuice\", \"Little Mother\" by Ross Alexander, \"The Hilton Keen Show\", \"Hump\", a dramatization of the novel by David Benedictus.\n\nUS television guest spots include \"Baretta\" and \"Kojak\". \n\nUK television roles include Thames Television's Armchair Theatre play, \"Verité\" (1973) with Richard Morant and Tim Curry, co-starring in \"Rock Follies of '77\" (1977) and \"Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\", in which she reprised her role as The Marketing Girl from the original radio series. Her television films include \"Blue Money,\" again with Tim Curry, and \"Pleasure\" (1994), part of the \"Alan Bleasdale Presents\" series. She guest starred with Bill Nighy in \"The Men's Room\" (1991).\n\nFeature film roles include \"Reds\" (1981), Mrs. McKee in \"The Great Gatsby\" (1974), sister-in-law Anna to Woody Allen’s Boris in \"Love and Death\" (1975), and \"Yentl\" (1983), in which she worked as Barbra Streisand's understudy and played Sophie, Amy Irving's maid in an uncredited role. She appeared in several saucy UK comedies in the 1970s including \"Eskimo Nell\" (1975), an early feature film by Martin Campbell.\n\nPorter featured on Roger Waters' album \"The Pros and Cons of Hitch Hiking\" as The Wife. Her voice has been heard on re-voices and dubbings of many films. She was the White Witch in the animated version of \"The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe\". She and John Ratzenberger did all the post-synch voices in John Schlesinger's \"Honky Tonk Freeway\" (1981), and she re-voiced the death throes of Veronica Cartwright in \"Alien\" (1979).\n\nPorter later trained as a television script editor and producer. For BBC Television, she produced \"The Husband, The Wife and The Stranger\", starring Adam Faith and Derrick O'Connor, and for Channel 4 Television, \"Unusual Ground Floor Conversion\", a short film directed by Mark Herman, \"Little Voice\". She later joined BBC Television Drama as a development executive for new drama series.\n\nA number of her radio plays and short stories have been broadcast on BBC Radio 4.\n\nPorter first became a journalist at age 12 when she was hired as a weekly columnist for \"The Patent Trader\", a Westchester County newspaper chain. Years later, she served as a relief theatre critic for \"The Times\", and contributed media-related articles to \"The Listener\", \"The Guardian\", and \"The Independent\". In 1988 she became a film critic, joining The Critics' Circle and served for 10 years as London Editor for \"Film Journal International\", with supplementary pieces for \"The Morning Star\". She continues to provide online columns for \"The London Progressive Journal\" under the byline outRageous!\n\nShe subsequently became a senior Web Producer for leading web-house Online Magic, part of the Omnicom Group, and she was asked to contribute to various web-related magazines including .net for Future Publishing. This led to the publication of her book, \"The Net Effect\", for which David Puttnam contributed the foreword. 2018 was her 21st year as a nominating judge for the International Webby Awards and she has served as a contributor to policy advisers on eDemocracy issues. She is an elected Lifetime voting member of BAFTA.\n\nIn 2013 she published \"Resident Aliens\", a collection of her short fiction for kindle. This was followed in 2014 by a collection of her original scripts and screenplays under the umbrella title \"Drama Queen\" and in April 2016 of her autobiography entitled \"Walking on my Hands: how I learned to take responsibility for my life with the help of Woody Allen, Barbra Streisand, Greta Garbo, Harvey Milk, Idi Amin, Guy The Gorilla, and Frank Sinatra, among others\". Its foreword is by noted author and screenplay writer Shane Connaughton (\"My Left Foot\").\n\nAlso in 2016 Porter published both kindle and paperback versions of \"Settling Beyond the Pale\", a novella and six short stories about freedom and flight.\n\nIn 2018 Porter released both kindle and paperback versions of a horror/fantasy novella titled \"Feeding the Twins\" as well as her first novel \"ScreenSaver!\" \n\nPorter's second novel, \"Becca’s Providing\", was published in both kindle and paperback during the spring of 2019; it explores themes of identity and family. Before the end of 2019 Porter will publish \"Painted Ladies\", her 3rd collection of short fiction.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312457", "title": "José Jiménez Lozano", "text": "José Jiménez Lozano\n\nJosé Jiménez Lozano (13 May 1930 – 9 March 2020) was a Spanish writer. In 2002 he was awarded the Miguel de Cervantes Prize. \n\nJiménez Lozano was born in Langa, a village in the province of Ávila. After finishing his studies in 1962, he became a journalist and writer, winning the Cervantes Prize in 2002. Not well known to the general public, he emphasized religious and social themes in both his journalism and his novels.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312477", "title": "Splendour in the Grass", "text": "Splendour in the Grass\n\nSplendour in the Grass (commonly referred to as Splendour) is an annual Australian music festival held at the North Byron Parklands in Yelgun, New South Wales. Since its inauguration, the festival has also been held in various locations near Byron Bay, New South Wales, and Woodford, Queensland.\n\nThe festival was jointly created and promoted by the Village Sounds Agency and Secret Service music companies, and began in 2001 as a one-day gathering to cater for Australia's winter season (a period that had traditionally been associated with very few events of this nature). \"Ode: Intimations of Immortality\", by English poet William Wordsworth, was the inspiration for the naming of the event. The festival evolved into a two-day event in 2002 and a three-day event in 2009. It is now considered Australia's largest music festival.\n\nSplendour in the Grass showcases popular and established musical artists, as well as emerging Australian artists. The music festival has attracted notable artists such as Coldplay, Powderfinger, Arctic Monkeys, Kanye West, Tame Impala and Lorde. The 2020 edition will be headlined by Flume, The Strokes, and Tyler, the Creator.\n\nTickets for the 2005 festival were sold out within 11 hours and, soon after, festival tickets that initially cost A$125 were offered on eBay at inflated prices of up to A$3000. The festival organisers responded by sending \"cease and desist\" letters to eBay, as well as around 150 ticket resellers, citing a breach of the conditions of sale. However, eBay refused to block the ticket auctions, claiming it was the seller's responsibility to ensure that they have the ability and right to sell products. The Triple J radio station encouraged its listeners to sabotage the bidding process and fake bids of up to A$10,000 were consequently listed on eBay by protesters opposed to ticket scalping. Following media coverage, the NSW Department of Fair Trading became involved and met with eBay representatives. The then-Fair Trading Minister John Hatzistergos instructed the Office of Fair Trading to investigate the reselling of tickets and determine whether resellers were in breach of the Fair Trading Act. Festival promoters hoped that the investigation would eventually lead to the introduction of anti-ticket scalping legislation.\n\nIn response to the events of 2005, the organisers altered the ticketing system for the 2006 festival. In an unprecedented action, ticket buyers were required to register their name and date of birth at the time of purchase. These details were then printed on the event tickets and valid identification was required to gain admission into the festival. Tickets to the 2006 festival went on sale at 9am on Monday 15 May 2006—all camping tickets sold out within three hours, and all general admission tickets sold out after 48 hours.\n\nFestival organisers encountered difficulties with the ticketing system provided by the Qjump company in 2008, as consumers were unable to purchase tickets following lengthy delays. Qjump later issued an apology on the festival's Internet forum.\n\nFor a once-only trial, the organisers obtained permission to stage the 2009 Splendour in the Grass at a site in Yelgun. However, the consent provided to the organisers was the subject of a challenge by a group of residents, environmentalist and the Environmental Defenders Office of NSW, who presented their case in the New South Wales Land and Environment Court. The Chief Judge of the Land and Environment Court, Justice Brian Preston, ruled that Byron Shire Council had exceeded its powers by granting the development consent where the land included parts zoned for conservation purposes. The development consent was ruled invalid, prohibiting the festival from being held at the Yelgun site. As a consequence of the decision, the festival remained at the Belongil site in 2009, before returning one more time in 2012.\n\nIn 2016 attendees made accusations they were forced to walk from the venue or sleep in the mud due to a lack of transport.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312482", "title": "Ainslie, Australian Capital Territory", "text": "Ainslie, Australian Capital Territory\n\nAinslie (postcode: 2602) is a leafy suburb of Canberra, Australia in the North Canberra district.\n\nThe suburb is bounded by Limestone Avenue and Majura Avenue to the west and north, Phillip Avenue to the north-east, Mount Ainslie to the east and Quick Street to the south.\n\nAinslie is within walking distance of the City, the nature trails of Mount Ainslie, the Australian War Memorial and the many restaurants of Dickson. It has many attractions: a central location, with equally easy access to the CBD and the bush trails of Mount Ainslie; the abundance of charming early twentieth-century, heritage-listed houses; mature deciduous street trees and general leafiness; and a vibrant local shopping centre.\n\nThe local shops are located in the middle of Ainslie, and there is an IGA store, a cafe, restaurant, liquor store, pharmacy, laundrette, Pilates studio and newsagent. The suburb has a playschool, The Inner North Playschool, a preschool (Baker Gardens Preschool), the Ainslie Football Club, and the Ainslie Fire Station, which serves the North Canberra area. The North Ainslie Primary School is located in the suburb, but Ainslie School, one of Canberra's oldest, is located in Braddon on the western side of Limestone Ave (Braddon was originally called 'Ainslie' with the current Ainslie and another early neighbouring suburb, Reid, were originally called 'North Ainslie' and 'South Ainslie' respectively). Ainslie Village which is actually in Campbell, provides accommodation for homeless adults, or those at risk of homelessness.\n\nAinslie residents can access Mount Ainslie simply by walking uphill. There is an easy paved walk to the top, and also a \"goat track\" straight up the side of the hill. Kangaroos come down from the mountain at night and eat grass from the nature strips in front of local houses.\n\nThe Anglican All Saints Church, built in the 1860s of stone, is located on Cowper Street in Ainslie. It was relocated from Sydney in 1957 and originally served as the railway terminus at Rookwood Cemetery. It is listed by the ACT Heritage Council.\n\nThe suburb is characterised by leafy streets, and mainly by detached single dwelling houses. Many see a \"village\" atmosphere around the many small parks. Ainslie has experienced 'in-fill' development in recent years, both in the form of dual occupancy dwellings (where two dwellings are constructed on a block which previously contained one house) and medium-density development, especially at the Limestone Avenue ends of Cowper Street and Angus Street and, more recently, on the site of the former service station at the Ainslie shops.\n\nThe suburb was named after James Ainslie, a veteran of the Battle of Waterloo, the \"\"first overseer of 'Duntroon Station' in Canberra who was employed by Robert Campbell in 1825 to drive a mob of sheep south from Bathurst 'until he found suitable land'; Ainslie chose the Limestone Plains (the Canberra district) and was overseer for ten years before returning to Scotland.\"\" \n\nJames Ainslie was reputed to have camped in 1825 under gum trees at what is now Corroboree Park. Iris Carnell, born in 1900 and one of the original inhabitants of Paterson Street in the 1920s, recounted in 'Voices of Old Ainslie' that her mother, Celia Tong, born at Lanyon in 1871, remembered as a little girl what is now Corroboree Park as a scene of aboriginal corroborees. She said the aborigines used to sit around the tree now near the barbecues which has four trees growing from its centre.\n\nAinslie has three housing precincts planned on Garden City principles that were gazetted onto the ACT Government's Heritage Register in 2004. The first stage of the Corroboree Park precinct was constructed between 1925 and 1927 to accommodate tradesmen for the construction of the city. The Alt Crescent precinct was designed for the members of the Federal Capital Commission and built in 1926. The houses were originally occupied by the founding staff of the FCC. The curved street design appears to derive from Walter Burley Griffin’s original plan for Canberra which shows a small crescent off Limestone Avenue at the end of Ainslie Avenue. The first stage of the Wakefield Gardens precinct was constructed between 1925 and 1929 to accommodate lower income public servants and workmen for the opening of the new Parliament House in Canberra in 1927.\n\nThe division (or suburb) name Ainslie was gazetted by the Government in 1928. The streets of Ainslie are named after pioneers and legislators.\n\nIris Carnell also records that when the then-Duke and Duchess of York came to Canberra to open Parliament House in 1927, the Duchess, later Queen Elizabeth and the Queen Mother, expressed an interest in visiting a typical local family. She was invited to tea with the Truesdale family at 20 Corroboree Park (on the northern corner of Higgins Crescent).\n\nOriginally a predominantly blue-collar suburb with a high proportion of public housing, Ainslie has gradually gentrified, with properties regularly fetching more than $1 million. Perhaps paradoxically, among the most sought-after properties in the suburb are the heritage-listed cottages built during the conservative governments of Stanley Bruce and Joseph Lyons, which are set mainly among European trees.\n\nAinslie has many parks and open spaces.\n\nIn the , the population of Ainslie was 5,189, including 79 (1.5%) Indigenous persons and 3,714 (71.8%) Australian-born persons. 70.7% of dwellings were separate houses (compared to the Australian average of 72.9%), while 17.5% were semi-detached, row or terrace houses (Australian average: 12.7%) and 10.3% were flats, units or apartments (Australian average: 13.1%). 39.1% of the population were professionals, compared to the Australian average of 22.2%. Notably 24.6% worked in central government administration, compared to the Australian average of 1.2%, although the ACT-wide average is a similar 18.4%. 48.6% of the population had no religion, compared to the ACT average of 36.2% and the Australian average of 29.6%.\n\nAinslie is located within the federal electorate of Canberra and it is represented by Alicia Payne for the Labor Party. In the ACT Legislative Assembly, Ainslie is part of the electorate of Kurrajong, which elects five members on the basis of proportional representation, two Labor, two Liberal and one Greens. Polling place statistics are shown to the right for the \"Ainslie North\" polling place at North Ainslie Primary School in the 2019 federal and 2016 ACT elections.\n\nCalcareous shales from the Canberra Formation from the Silurian period is overlain by Quaternary alluvium. This rock is the limestone of the original title of Canberra \"Limestone Plains\". Mount Ainslie itself is composed of the Ainslie Volcanics.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312489", "title": "Todd Dezago", "text": "Todd Dezago\n\nTodd Dezago (born 1961) is an American comic book writer best known for his collaborations with artist Mike Wieringo on \"The Sensational Spider-Man\" and their creator-owned fantasy series \"Tellos\".\n\nTodd Dezago was raised in Rhinebeck, New York and studied to be an actor.\n\nDezago began his comics writing career on \"X-Factor\" for Marvel Comics in 1994. He first worked with penciller Mike Wieringo on \"The Sensational Spider-Man\" #8 (Sept. 1996). They then worked together on the creator-owned fantasy series \"Tellos\" in 1999. The series, a coming-of-age adventure set in a magical, piratical world, ran 10 issues (May 1999–Nov. 2000). The last three issues were released by Gorilla Comics, a short-lived Image Comics imprint co-founded by Dezago and several other creators in 2000. Following the demise of the series, Dezago wrote the \"Tellos: Maiden Voyage\" #1 (March 2001) one-shot.\n\nAt DC Comics, Dezago co-created \"Young Justice\" with artist Todd Nauck in the 1998 one-shot \"Young Justice: The Secret\". His other \"Young Justice\" work includes the 1998 miniseries \"JLA: World Without Grown-ups\". From 1999 to 2002, he wrote \"Impulse\" #50–89. In 2005 he co-created \"The Perhapanauts\" with artist Craig Rousseau.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312495", "title": "Gulf Research Center", "text": "Gulf Research Center\n\nThe Gulf Research Center (GRC) is a privately funded, non-partisan think tank, education provider and consultancy specializing in the Persian Gulf region. The GRC produces research from a Gulf perspective which redresses a current area studies imbalance wherein regional opinions and interests are underrepresented. Based in Jeddah, and the foundation, now based in Geneva, the GRC was founded in July 2000 by Abdulaziz Sager, the current chairman.\n\nThe Gulf Research Center focus is on four interdisciplinary areas: social science research, education, news media and consultancy. These include social science in the context of the Persian Gulf region, international relations and politics of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries, E-Education, Executive Learning Programs, the GRC E-Library and the \"Gulf in the Media\" news portal.\nSpecialized GRC publications include \"Araa Magazine\", an independent magazine about social, defense and security issues in the Gulf; \"Yemen Studies\", a peer reviewed bilingual academic series about Yemen and Yemen-GCC relations; and the \"GRC Newsletter\".\n\nThe GRC maintains cooperation agreements with major partners such as Emirates Bank, Shell, Glaxo Smith Kline, the University of Queensland, the Saudi Arabian Marketing and Agencies Company (SAMACO) group, the National Defence College, the Saudi Binladin Group, and the FRIDE Foundation.\n\nBeginning with its 3rd Annual Conference in January 2006, the GRC took part in or organised over two dozen conferences, workshops and seminars which included:\n\n\nGRC publications in 2006 included the \"Gulf Yearbook\" and the \"Green Gulf Report\", ten research papers including \"Impact of the Disbandment of the Iraqi army on the Security Situation in Iraq,\" ten Gulf papers including \"The Arab Gulf States: Further steps towards political participation,\" ten Gulf Translations, and three Gulf Theses including one about GCC-EU relations.\n\nGRC held its 4th Annual Conference, “The consequences of US Policies in the Gulf Region,” on January 13 and 14, 2007.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312503", "title": "Run-in period", "text": "Run-in period\n\nRun-in period is a period before a clinical trial is commenced, it can be passive \"when a placebo or no treatment is given\" or active \"when treatment is used\". The clinical data from this stage of a trial are only occasionally of value but can serve a valuable role in screening out ineligible or non-compliant participants, in ensuring that participants are in a stable condition, and in providing baseline observations. A run-in period is sometimes called a \"washout period\" if treatments that participants were using before entering the clinical trial are discontinued.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312516", "title": "Big City Secrets", "text": "Big City Secrets\n\nBig City Secrets is the first studio album by Joseph Arthur, released by Real World Records on March 11, 1997. Peter Gabriel and Brian Eno contribute backing vocals on the song \"Mercedes.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312517", "title": "Bill Kaysing", "text": "Bill Kaysing\n\nBill Kaysing (July 31, 1922 – April 21, 2005) was an American writer who claimed that the six Apollo Moon landings between July 1969 and December 1972 were hoaxes, and so a founder of the Moon hoax movement.\n\nKaysing was born on July 31, 1922 as William Charles Kaysing, to a German-American family in Chicago, Illinois. His father was Charles William Kaysing; his mother's name is unknown.While he was a boy, his family moved to South Pasadena, California. He is described as growing up:in South Pasadena, California... [with a childhood] like something out of Huckleberry Finn. He had a paper route, went rafting on the Arroyo Seco River, and ate apples he found behind the grocery store. He couldn’t wait to leave home. His violent and abusive father died when he was nine; his mother was emotionally absent; and he had very little to do with his older brother, who would later become an aeronautical engineer. \n\nKaysing served in the United States Navy during World War II as a midshipman, and later attended Navy Officers Training School, and the University of Southern California. He went on, after the war, to receive a B.A. in English literature, in 1949, from the University of Redlands.\n\nKaysing graduated high school at 17, and worked for \"a single week... in a furniture factory when he decided it wasn’t for him... [then] made his way to San Pedro, where he got a job on a fishing boat and got paid in fish.\" \n\nAfter the Navy and college he \"worked briefly as a salesman, an insurance claims examiner, and a cabinetmaker...\", and in this post-university, pre-technical period, his writing career involved publishing on a variety of subjects. Kaysing then found work as a technical writer at Rocketdynes jet propulsion laboratory, a division of North American Aviation, in 1956, in the period prior to the development of the Apollo missions. In September 1956, he became a service analyst there, in 1958 a service engineer, and in 1962 a publications analyst. From 1956 to 1963 Kaysing served as head of technical publications for Rocketdyne. On May 31, 1963, he resigned for personal reasons. \n\nIn the years that followed, Kaysing has been described as suffering from \"chronic anxiety, which, over time, turned into full-blown disillusionment with modern life,\" leading him to get rid of the family television over the objections of his family, and to \"tras[h] his radio and cance[l] his newspaper subscription.\" Thereafter, he led his family, initially, into an itinerant lifestyle, one that eventually led to breakup of the family, but also to an opportunity to write about their lifestyle. Darryn King, writing for \"Medium.com\", describes the time in this way:He bought a trailer with bunk beds for the girls and embarked on a “year-round vacation.” Before long, he parted ways with his wife and family too. For the better part of the next decade, Kaysing had no fixed address. He foraged for food and picked up odd jobs—freelance writing, fruit-picking, security, and selling dentistry equipment by mail-order.\n\nHe returned to writing in a relationship with Straight Arrow Press, then-publisher of the Rolling Stone, in work that would eventually involve photojournalist Robert Altman and designer Jon Goodchild, both from the magazine; his first work was \"The Ex-Urbanite’s Complete & Illustrated Easy-Does-It First-Time Farmer’s Guide,\" which dispensed \"wisdom on everything from acorns to yurts in his homespun writing style, with epigraphs quoting William Faulkner and the Old Testament and [Altman] photographs of hippie layabouts.\" In this and subsequent works, Kaysing \"was passionate about teaching readers how to live healthful, low-cost, and adventurous lives\", presenting readers with \"lyrical passages about the exquisite pleasures of fresh air, wildflowers, geothermal springs, and motorcycling through the desert.\" It was in the period of related writing that followed that books began to include darker tones and themes of social protest, and in this period of a \"rambling, tax-evading lifestyle\" also led to a new relationship, and his new wife would co-write his work.\n\nKaysing would come to assert in a new vein of writing that came to fruition in the mid-1970s, that during his much earlier tenure at Rocketdyne he was privy to documents pertaining to the Mercury, Gemini, Atlas, and Apollo programs, and that one did not need an engineering or science degree to determine that a hoax was being perpetrated. In his account of this intellectual development, the Rocketdyne scientists with whom he worked expressed to him that there was enough technology at the time to perhaps send a crewed rocket to the Moon, but not enough technology developed to return safely to Earth. They also spoke of the very real problem of traveling through atmospheric radiation without harm to the astronauts as a problem that yet needed to be solved. Even before July 1969, he had \"a hunch, an intuition, ... a true conviction\" and decided that he did not believe that anyone was going to the Moon. Kaysing thus wrote a book titled \"We Never Went to the Moon: America's Thirty Billion Dollar Swindle\", which was self-published in 1976, and republished by Health Research Books in 2002. \n\nIn his book, Kaysing introduced arguments which he said proved the Moon landings were faked. Claims in the book (and subsequent sources) including that:\n\nHe also noted that Dutch newspapers questioned the \"authenticity\" of the Moon landings.\n\nKaysing also claimed that NASA staged both the Apollo 1 fire and the Space Shuttle \"Challenger\" accident, deliberately murdering the astronauts on board, suggesting that NASA might have learned that these astronauts were about to expose the conspiracy and needed to guarantee their silence. He also believed that the disappearance of Thomas Baron's 500-page report on the Apollo 1 fire and his death of Baron in a rail-traffic accident a week after he testified before the United States Congress were not accidents. \n\nA vocal advocate of other conspiracy theories, Kaysing believed there to be a high-level conspiracy involving the Central Intelligence Agency, Federal Reserve, Internal Revenue Service and other government agencies to brainwash the American public, poison their food supply, and control the media.\n\nKaysing appeared on the Oprah show.\n\nKaysing was a participant in the Fox documentary, \"Conspiracy Theory: Did We Land on the Moon?\", which aired on February 15, 2001.\n\nOn August 29, 1996, Kaysing filed a defamation lawsuit in Santa Cruz County Superior Court against astronaut Jim Lovell for calling his claims \"wacky\" in an article by Rafer Guzmán for \"Metro Silicon Valley\". Lovell is quoted:\n\nThe guy is wacky. His position makes me feel angry. We spent a lot of time getting ready to go to the Moon. We spent a lot of money, we took great risks, and it's something everybody in this country should be proud of.\n\nThe case was dismissed in 1997.\n\nKaysing describes preparation for the launch as normal, but since Rocketdyne F-1 engines in the first stage of the Saturn V rocket were \"totally unreliable,\" a cluster of \"five booster engines of the more dependable B-1 type as used in the C-1 cluster for the Atlas missile\" were secretly installed, one inside each of the Saturn V's five F-1s. \nKaysing states that:\n\nThe astronauts were launched with the Saturn V. Then, in order to account for their disappearance, they simply orbited the Earth for eight days and in the interim they showed these fake pictures of the astronauts on the Moon. But on the eighth day the command console separated from the vehicle and descended to Earth as, of course, was shown in the films.\n\nIn March 2013, expeditions financed by business and space entrepreneur Jeff Bezos recovered pieces of rockets from the Apollo program, artifacts that were seen as contradicting Kaysing's published claims of the disuse of the Rocketdyne F-1 engines.\n\nKaysing encouraged Ralph René to write \"NASA Mooned America!\", after René decided that he also had research to prove the landings were faked. More generally, despite refutations and other evidence, Kaysing's writings have inspired others in their disbelief in the historicity of the Moon landings. \n\nKaysing's daughter, Wendy L. Kaysing, has stated that she hopes to one day write a book about her father with Kaysing's nephew, Dietrich von Schmausen, not to reiterate Kaysing's hoax claims, rather to talk about her father as a person.\n\n\nAfter his time in the Navy, Kaysing married and had two daughters. One marriage was to Carol M. de Ridder, which ended in divorce. A second marriage was to Ruth Cole Kaysing.\n\nKaysing died on April 21, 2005 in Santa Barbara, California.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312525", "title": "Rocket vessel", "text": "Rocket vessel\n\nA rocket vessel was a ship equipped with rockets as a weapon. The most famous ship of this type was HMS \"Erebus\", which at the Battle of Baltimore in 1814 provided the \"rockets' red glare\" that was memorialized by Francis Scott Key in The Star-Spangled Banner. \n\nRocket vessels were also used by the Royal Navy in the attack on the French fleet at Boulogne-sur-Mer in 1806 and at the second Battle of Copenhagen in 1807. At the Battle of the Basque Roads in 1809, there were no less than three vessels participating that had been fitted to throw rockets: two hired armed cutters \"King George\" and \"Nimrod\", and the schooner \"Whiting\".\n\nThe Congreve rockets of this period were highly inaccurate and unreliable, and were primarily used as a psychological weapon of terror in conjunction with other, more effective, weapons, such as mortar shells thrown by bomb vessels.\n\nThe \"Erebus\" was equipped with a 32-pound rocket battery installed below the main deck, which fired through portholes or scuttles pierced in the ship's side. Some of the other rocket vessels used by the Royal Navy were small boats, rather than ships. These carried a rocket launcher frame supported by a mast and raised and lowered by means of halyards.\n\nModern warships carry a variety of rocket-powered missile weapons. Dedicated rocket ships were also occasionally used in the 20th century, such as the Landing Craft Tank (Rocket) used to support amphibious assaults in WWII.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312526", "title": "Eastern Province, Sri Lanka", "text": "Eastern Province, Sri Lanka\n\nThe Eastern Province ( \"Kiḻakku Mākāṇam\"; \"Næ̆gĕnahira Paḷāta\") is one of the nine provinces of Sri Lanka, the first level administrative division of the country. The provinces have existed since the 19th century but did not have any legal status until 1987 when the 13th Amendment to the Constitution of Sri Lanka established provincial councils. Between 1988 and 2006 the province was temporarily merged with the Northern Province to form the North Eastern Province. The capital of the province is Trincomalee.\n\nIn 1815 the British gained control of the entire island of Ceylon. They divided the island into three ethnic based administrative structures: Low Country Sinhalese, Kandyan Sinhalese and Tamil. The Eastern Province was part of the Tamil administration. In 1833, in accordance with the recommendations of the Colebrooke-Cameron Commission, the ethnic based administrative structures were unified into a single administration divided into five geographic provinces. The districts of Batticaloa, Bintenna (part of present-day Badulla District), Tamankaduva (present day Polonnaruwa District) and Trincomalee formed the new Eastern Province. Tamankaduva was transferred to the newly created North Central Province in 1873 and Bintenna was transferred to the newly created Uva Province in 1886.\n\nThe Indo-Lanka Accord signed on 29 July 1987 required the Sri Lankan government to devolve powers to the provinces and, in the interim, to merge the Northern and Eastern provinces into one administrative unit. The accord required a referendum to be held by 31 December 1988 in the Eastern Province to decide whether the merger should be permanent. Crucially, the accord allowed the Sri Lankan president to postpone the referendum at his discretion.\n\nOn 14 November 1987 the Sri Lankan Parliament passed the 13th Amendment to the 1978 Constitution of Sri Lanka and the Provincial Councils Act No 42 of 1987, establishing provincial councils. On September 2 and 8 1988 President Jayewardene issued proclamations enabling the Northern and Eastern provinces to be one administrative unit administered by one elected Council. The North-East Province was born.\n\nThe proclamations were only meant to be a temporary measure until a referendum was held in the Eastern Province on a permanent merger between the two provinces. However, the referendum was never held and successive Sri Lankan presidents issued proclamations annually extending the life of the \"temporary\" entity.\n\nThe merger was bitterly opposed by Sri Lankan nationalists. The combined North-East Province occupied one fourth of Sri Lanka. The thought of the rebel Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam controlling this province, directly or indirectly, alarmed them greatly. On 14 July 2006, after a long campaign against the merger, the Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna political party filed three separate petitions with the Supreme Court requesting a separate provincial council for the East. On 16 October 2006 the Supreme Court ruled that the proclamations issued by President Jayewardene were null and void and had no legal effect. The North-East Province was formally de-merged into the Northern and Eastern provinces on 1 January 2007.\n\nMuch of the Eastern Province was under the control of rebel Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam for many years during the civil war. The entire province was recaptured by the Sri Lankan military in 2007. After coming under Government control communities in the Eastern Province suffered from insecurity in the form of illegal taxes, political killings, abductions. Many community members blamed Pro-Government Tamil groups such as the Tamil Makkal Viduthalai Pulikal (TMVP). In 2008 due to the indiscriminate firearm use by various Tamil factions government planned to disarm Tamil Paramilitary groups. However the TMVP kept arms due to threat of LTTE and denied they were active in Civilian areas. TMVP was finally disarmed in 2009 after the LTTE was defeated.\n\nThe Eastern Province has received at least $500 million from international donors since coming under the control of the government of Sri Lanka in 2007, according to the International Crisis Group. Since the end of the war the Eastern Province has seen considerable development under the \"Nagenahira Navodaya\" (Eastern Revival) program which include various agricultural, infrastructural and Social development projects.These include the construction and repairing of roads, schools, hospitals, resettlement of IDPs and construction of Nanasala ICT centers. There are currently 88 Nanasala ICT education centers in the Eastern Province. Other Projects include reconstructing the Walai Iravu bridge which was destroyed by the LTTE, developing the Weber stadium in the Batticaloa town, increasing agricultural production, construction of Manmunai, Vavunativu and New Oddamavadi bridges, carpeting roads, constructing 48,000 houses in the Eastern province for the people who live below the poverty line, developing the Trincomalee Harbour, construction of the Sampur Power Station, Development of Maritime park and a Maritime Museum in Trincomalee, creation of the Sampur industrial zone, development of bus stands, canals and the Oluvil Harbour in Ampara district.\n\nEastern province has an area of .\n\nThe province is surrounded by the Northern Province to the north, the Bay of Bengal to the east, the Southern Province to the south, and the Uva, Central and North Central provinces to the west.\n\nThe province's coast is dominated by lagoons, the largest being Batticaloa Lagoon, Kokkilai lagoon, Upaar Lagoon and Ullackalie Lagoon.\n\nThe Eastern Province is divided into 3 administrative districts, 45 Divisional Secretary's Divisions (DS Divisions) and 1,085 Grama Niladhari Divisions (GN Divisions).\n\nThe Eastern province's population was 1,551,381 in 2012. The province is the most diverse in Sri Lanka, both ethnically and religiously.\n\nThe population of the province, like that of the Northern Province, was heavily affected by the civil war. The war killed an estimated 100,000 people. Several hundred thousand Sri Lankan Tamils, possibly as much as one million, emigrated to the West during the war. Many Sri Lankan Tamils also moved to the relative safety of the capital Colombo. The conflict has also caused some of the Tamils, Moors and Sinhalese who lived in the province to flee to other parts of Sri Lanka, though most of them have returned to the province since the end of the civil war.\n\nThe Eastern Province has a primary agriculture based economy and is commonly known as the \"Granary of Sri Lanka\". It contributes 25% of national paddy production, 17% of national milk production and 21% of national fish production. Maize cultivation is expanding, large scale maize cultivation with hybrid seeds and contractual marketing has increased production significantly and it is targeted to produce 25 per cent of the country's maize requirement. The Industrial sector contributed 34% of the Province's GDP and export processing zones like the Trincomalee EPZ and Sampur Heavy Industrial Zone have been developed to boost the Industrial sector alongside the Trincomalee Harbour which is being developed for Break bulk, Bulk cargo and industrial activities including heavy industries.\n\nThe province benefits from a large tourism industry with many seaside resorts and hotels situated mainly in lagoons as well as beaches such as Pasikudah, Nilaveli, Uppuveli and Kalkudah. Historic sites and other natural attractions such as Pigeon Island, coral reefs contribute to the industry.\n\nThe 13th Amendment to the 1978 Constitution of Sri Lanka established provincial councils. The first elections for provincial councils took place on 28 April 1988 in North Central, North Western, Sabaragamuwa, and Uva provinces.\n\nElections in the newly merged North-East Province were scheduled for 19 November 1988. However, the Indian Peace Keeping Force (IPKF), which at that time occupied the North-East Province, rigged the elections in the north so that the Eelam People's Revolutionary Liberation Front (EPRLF) and Eelam National Democratic Liberation Front (ENDLF), two Indian backed paramilitary groups, won all of the 36 seats in the north uncontested. However, elections did take place for the 35 seats in the east. The Sri Lanka Muslim Congress won 17 seats, EPRLF 12 seats, ENDLF 5 seats and the United National Party 1 seat. On 10 December 1988 Annamalai Varatharajah Perumal of the EPRLF became the first Chief Minister of the North-East Provincial Council.\n\nOn 1 March 1990, just as the IPKF were preparing to withdraw from Sri Lanka, Permual moved a motion in the North-East Provincial Council declaraing an independent Eelam. President Premadasa reacted to Permual's UDI by dissolving the provincial council and imposing direct rule on the province.\n\nThe north-east was ruled directly from Colombo until May 2008 when elections were held in the demerged Eastern Province (the Northern Province continued to be governed from Colombo).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312531", "title": "Rannoch Corp.", "text": "Rannoch Corp.\n\nRannoch Corporation, was an American company based in Alexandria, Virginia. It was a research, development and production company working in the field of radar tracking for airport management, ground and airspace control and air defence.\n\nIts products included the 'AirScene' Airport Management systems.\n\nThey had offices worldwide and competed in this market with companies such as: ERA (Czech Republic); Sensis Corporation (USA); Park Air Systems AS (Norway); HITT (Netherlands); Lochard (Australia) and Thales (France). \n\nIn October 2006 Rannoch acquired ERA (6,25 million Euro was provided by an investment company for the acquisition) and moved large part of development and manufacturing to Pardubice, Czech Republic, location of ERA. In February 2007 Rannoch renamed itself to \"Era Corporation\". In July 2008 ERA was bought by American SRA International for 125.5 million US dollars.\n\nThe primary mission of their AirScene System is to track all types of aircraft in the air and on an airport surface and transponder-equipped vehicles to provide a high fidelity, high accuracy, and high update rate air/surface surveillance display. The system receives and decodes signals transmitted by Mode A/C, Mode S and ADS-B transponders. The system can be configured so that the sensors are connected to a central processor in real-time, for up-to-the-second track information. Each signal is directly communicated to the central processor where the aircraft/vehicle(s) is/are identified and its/their position calculated in real time (nominally once per second).\n\nThe remote sensors are designed to be small and compact for easy sitting and installation. Both the GPS and L-Band antenna are light and extremely service-friendly allowing them to be installed virtually anywhere and in any environmental condition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312536", "title": "Caco-2", "text": "Caco-2\n\nThe Caco-2 cell line is a continuous line of heterogeneous human epithelial colorectal adenocarcinoma cells, developed by the Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer Research through research conducted by Dr. Jorgen Fogh.\n\nThe application of Caco-2 cells in research was pioneered in the late 1980s by Ismael Hidalgo, working in the laboratory of Ron Borchardt at the University of Kansas, and Tom Raub, who was at the Upjohn Company at the time. Following stints at SmithKline Beecham and Rhone-Poulenc Rorer, Hidalgo went on to co-found a company, Absorption Systems, in 1996, where he remains as Chief Scientist.\n\nAlthough derived from a colon (large intestine) carcinoma, when cultured under specific conditions the cells become differentiated and polarized such that their phenotype, morphologically and functionally, resembles the enterocytes lining the small intestine. Caco-2 cells express tight junctions, microvilli, and a number of enzymes and transporters that are characteristic of such enterocytes: peptidases, esterases, P-glycoprotein, uptake transporters for amino acids, bile acids, carboxylic acids, etc.\n\nWhen looking at Caco-2 cell cultures microscopically, it is evident even by visual inspection that the cells are heterogeneous. Over the years, the characteristics of the cells used in different laboratories around the world have diverged significantly, which makes it difficult to compare results across labs. Despite such heterogeneity, Caco-2 cells have found applications in cell invasion studies, viral transfection research, and lipid transport.\n\nCaco-2 cells are most commonly used not as individual cells, but as a confluent monolayer on a cell culture insert filter (e.g., Transwell). When cultured in this format, the cells differentiate to form a polarized epithelial cell monolayer that provides a physical and biochemical barrier to the passage of ions and small molecules. The Caco-2 monolayer is widely used across the pharmaceutical industry as an in vitro model of the human small intestinal mucosa to predict the absorption of orally administered drugs with different kits such as the CacoReady. The correlation between the in vitro apparent permeability (P¬app) across Caco-2 monolayers and the in vivo fraction absorbed (fa) is well established.Transwell diagram\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312537", "title": "European industry federation", "text": "European industry federation\n\nA European industry federation (EIF) is a trade union organisation operating at European sectoral level, comparable to and sometimes part of the global union federations. They are the social partners recognised by the European Commission as acting on behalf of employees in their sectors for the purposes of European social dialogue.\n\nThe following is a list of EIFs affiliated to the European Trade Union Confederation (ETUC):\n"}
{"id": "2312539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312539", "title": "Amichand Rajbansi", "text": "Amichand Rajbansi\n\nAmichand Rajbansi (14 January 1942 – 29 December 2011) was a South African politician. He was a former Chief Minister of the House of Delegates Tricameral parliamentary chamber for Indian people, and leader of the Minority Front.\n\nAmichand Rajbansi, nicknamed the Bengal Tiger, was born in Clairwood, Durban on 14 January 1942. He attended Clairwood Secondary School and the Indian University College to study History and Psychology as major subjects.\n\nAfter a long service as a sports administrator, professional soccer referee, civic leader, and serving in local government structures dealing with local affairs, Rajbansi was elected to the South African Indian Council in 1974. This council was rejected by most Indians. In 1976 Rajbansi resigned from the Indian Council protesting the inter Cabinet council between the Indian Council and government cabinet of Prime Minister John Vorster. In 1981 he formed the National People's Party (NPP) and was elected leader of this new party. The NPP successfully competed for the election to the South African Indian Council and took control of SAIC, although only 6% of the Indian electorate participated in the 1981 elections for the Council.\n\nIn 1984, following Prime Minister PW Botha's constitutional reforms, the NPP stood for the newly constituted House of Delegates, the Indian only parliamentary chamber, and won the majority of seats in the House. As a result, Rajbansi became a member of the South African Cabinet and chairman for the Ministers' Council for Indian Affairs.\n\nRajbansi's leadership of the House of Delegates was often controversial, and in May 1987, his NPP lost its majority to an opposition coalition. However, Rajbansi did not resign his chairmanship, and he survived the leadership challenge with the help of P.W. Botha. A Parliamentary select committee later in 1987 found that Rajbansi accepted R10 000 for his party in order to \"facilitate the obtaining of land and contracts\", and he was suspended from the House of Delegates. He was suspended from P.W. Botha's cabinet, and Botha appointed a commission of enquiry under Justice Neville James to investigate allegations of corruption in the House of Delegates Administration. He was later found guilty by another parliamentary committee of \"glaring\" maladministration in forcing the purchase of a cultural centre for an inflated price. Botha fired Rajbansi from his cabinet and his Minister's Council in December 1988, following the preliminary report from the James Commission. The final report of the commission described Rajbansi as \"arrogant\", \"unscrupulous\", \"ruthless\" and a \"mean-minded bully\". The commission found that Rajbansi had lied to Parliament, committed statutory perjury, had given false evidence to the Commission, and misused his position. It also recommended that he never again be employed as a minister in the House of Delegates or in any official or semi-official post which called for integrity. He later resigned as leader of the NPP, and was suspended from the House of Delegates, only to be reinstated a few months later. In June 1990, he was convicted on 2 counts of fraud, and was fined R10 000 for using \"fronts\" to obtain premises for his businesses when he was a member of the SA Indian Council.\n\nAfter South Africa's transition to multi-racial democracy in 1994, the NPP became the Minority Front and continued to draw support from parts of the Indian community.\n\nAfter the 2004 elections, Rajbansi made an alliance with the African National Congress and he became MEC for Sports and Recreation for KwaZulu-Natal Province. In January 2009, Mr Rajbansi received a Lifetime Achievement Award from the India International Friendship Society in New Delhi, in recognition of his selfless service to humanity. He was the only African to receive this award.\n\nOn 29 December 2011, Rajbansi died from natural causes.\n\nRajbansi was formerly married to Asha Devi, a journalist and popular figure in local government. Devi spoke to Jani Allan in an interview published by the \"Sunday Times\" in the 1980s about her affection for her husband. She referred to her husband as \"her hero\". \"Even if it means sleeping on a bed of nails or walking on coals for him, I will do it ... I will always stand by him.\" They also had four daughters and a son together. Their relationship soured when Devi joined the IFP. The couple separated in 1998, with political and alleged paranormal activity in their marital home being cited as reasons attributed to their separation. The couple divorced in 2000. A year later Rajbansi married Shameen Thakur.\n\nIn 2003 Rajbansi's ex-daughter-in-law, Karnagie Tandree was strangled to death Police have deliberated over both murder and suicide as a cause of the death.\n"}
{"id": "2312540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312540", "title": "North Western Province, Sri Lanka", "text": "North Western Province, Sri Lanka\n\nNorth Western Province ( \"Wayamba Palata\", \"Vada Mael Maakaanam\") is a province of Sri Lanka. The province consists of the districts of Kurunegala and Puttalam. Its capital is Kurunegala, which has a population of 28,571. The province is known mainly for its numerous coconut plantations. Other main towns in this province are Chilaw (24,712) and Puttalam (45,661), which are both small fishing towns. The majority of the population of Wayamba province is of Sinhalese ethnicity. There is also a substantial Sri Lankan Moor minority around Puttalam and Sri Lankan Tamils in Udappu and Munneswaram. Fishing, prawn farming and rubber tree plantations are other prominent industries of the region. The province has an area of 7,888 km², and a population of 2,370,075 (2011 census).\n\nThe climate of Wayamba is tropical, with a marked dry season, and temperatures averaging between 20 °C in January to 25 °C in March. The south of the province is wetter, with almost 2000 mm of rainfall per year, but the north of the province is one of the driest regions in Sri Lanka, averaging under 1100 mm of rain in parts.\n\nWayamba is divided into 2 districts:\n\n\n\n\nNorth Western Province contains six villages with the same name, Galagedara.\n\nUniversities\n\n\nProvincial Education- Provincial Department of Education - North Western\n\n\nThe region is served by an extensive rail and road transport system providing linkages to the major cities and ports in Sri Lanka. Some major roads include,\n\n\n\nWayamba is the location for Mawathagama and Polghawela Export Processing Zones and boasts several other industrial estates such as Dambadeniya, Makandura West, Makadura East, Pannala, Lunuwila, Heraliyawela, Dangaspitiya, Dankotuwa and Noorani.\n\nWayamba Province is also rich with several types of mineral deposits. These include,\n\n\nWayamba has a highly developed agricultural economy, growing a variety of fruits and vegetables, flowering plants, spices, oil-seeds in addition to the traditional plantation crops such as Coconut, Rubber and Rice. Rich soils and varied climate give Wayamba a potential for growing of virtually any crop.\n\nPaddy is the main agricultural crop in the province. Wayamba is the third largest paddy-producing area in Sri Lanka. There are two main cultivation seasons. The Maha Season (October–January) or the period with excessive rainfall and the Yala Season (April–August) the drier season. In Yala season, the farmers have to depend on irrigation. More recent times, the paddy farmers during the dry season have opted to cultivate export crops and subsidiary food crops that bring bigger profits.\n\n\nThe Wayamba province is well served by all major commercial banking and financial institutions of Sri Lanka. These include, Bank of Ceylon, Commercial Bank of Sri Lanka, Sampath Bank, National Savings Bank, Hatton National Bank, People's Bank, Seylan Bank and the Union Bank. All of these banks have an extensive coverage of their branches in the province. Three other development banks of Sri Lanka, namely The DFCC Bank, National Development Bank, Wayamba Development Bank, Ideal motors & Ideal finance also provide services to the province.\n\nThe Wayamba province is a treasure house of archaeology having been seat of four medieval kingdoms of Sri Lanka between the mid 12th and mid 14th centuries. Having forced to move capitals due to foreign invasions, Sri Lankan kings nevertheless built magnificent citadels are Yapahuwa, Panduwasnuwara, Dambadeniya and Kurunegala. Impressive remains of those citadels, palaces, Buddhist temples and monasteries provide exciting sight seeing to the visitors.\n\nWayamba and Kurunegala are also the home for other ancient Buddhist rock temples, mostly with 1st century B.C roots, with wall and ceiling frescos, colossal Buddha images, stone inscriptions and sculptures dating from early medieval to 18th century period.\n\nThe sparkling blue surf of the Indian Ocean and scenic tropical lagoons which edge the western shores of the Wayamba province are glided with 240 kilometres of wide, sun drenched beaches. These beaches stretch from Waikkal at its southern end to Dutch Bay in the Puttalam district.\n\nSome of Wayamba's best resort beaches are at Marawila, Talwila, Kalpitiya and Waikkal. These beaches are often with the bonus of a lagoon or a river front and make excellent bases for stay-put beach holidays. Some of the beach resorts also offer viewing of underwater Coral wonderlands off Kandakuliya and Karaitivu. Many fishing villages dot the coastal areas.\n\nThe well preserved Dutch Fort in Kalpitiya (Puttalam district) dating back to 1670 is an evidence of the Wayamba's European colonial period. The fort is complete with barracks, store houses and living quarters, Dutch colonial pillars and ancient tombstones. Kurunegala has many 19th century relics of the British colonial period including the government Agent's residence and the Rajapihilla rest house.\n\nThe people of Wayamba celebrate many traditional festivals centred on sacred shrines of diverse faith.\n\n\nAll three shrines are easily accessible from Kurunegala, - Munneswaram approximately 70 km, Udappuwa 95 km and St. Anne's about 110 km respectively.\n\n\n\n\n\nand villages of wayamba palatha]\n"}
{"id": "2312541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312541", "title": "Cuyo (Argentina)", "text": "Cuyo (Argentina)\n\nCuyo is the name given to the wine-producing, mountainous area of central-west Argentina. Historically it comprised the provinces of San Juan, San Luis and Mendoza. The modern term New Cuyo indicates both Cuyo proper and the province of La Rioja. New Cuyo is a political and economic macroregion, but culturally La Rioja is part of the North-West rather than of Cuyo.\n\nCuyo has some of the most popular tourist attractions in Argentina and the highest mountain massifs in the Andes, including Aconcagua itself, the highest peak outside Asia, and the Ischigualasto Provincial Park.\n\nThe soil is arid and reddish, crossed by few rivers. Most of the rivers are fed by the thawing of snow on the peaks, and their volume of water increases considerably in spring. The Desaguadero River is the main collector, receiving waters from the Bermejo, Vinchina and Salado before reaching the Colorado River.\n\nViticulture is one of the main activities of the area. The wine production of the region represents almost 80% of national production, and the wines are highly considered in the world. Olives, potatoes, tomatoes and some fruits are also cultivated, and there is production of sweets and preserved foodstuffs. Quarrying and oil exploitation are other important industries.\n\nThe cities and towns in the region are characterised by colonial low houses and churches, and narrow streets, contrasting in the principal cities with the modern parts. The Universidad Nacional de Cuyo, founded in 1939, is the most important within these provinces, and has its campus in Mendoza, but has faculties as far as Río Negro.\n\nThis article includes a list of Cuyo Province sorted by their Gross Domestic Product (nominal) per capita, the value of all final goods and services produced within a nation in a given year, divided by the average population for the same year.\nThe table below includes data for the year 2013 for the 23 provinces\nTable of Cuyo provinces according to the .\n\nThe region of Cuyo has an arid climate or a semi-arid climate with an average annual precipitation of about that is generally unreliable from year to year. The region, which encompasses a wide range of latitudes combined with altitudes ranging from 500 m to nearly 7,000 m means that it has a diverse range of different climates. In general, most of the region has a temperate climate with higher altitude valleys having a more milder climate. At the highest altitudes (over 4,000 m), icy conditions persist year round. The diurnal range is very large with very hot temperatures during the day followed by cold nights. Amongst all locations in Argentina, the region has the largest diurnal range in the country with areas in San Juan Province having a diurnal range exceeding . The Andes prevent rain–bearing clouds from the Pacific Ocean from coming in, while its latitude puts it in a band of the sub-tropical high pressure belt keeping this region dry. With very low humidity, abundant sunshine throughout the year, and a temperate climate, the region is suitable for wine production. Droughts are often frequent and prolonged. The Cuyo region is influenced by the subtropical, semi–permanent South Atlantic anticyclone to the east in the Atlantic, the semi-permanent South Pacific anticyclone to the west of the Andes, the development of a low pressure system (\"Chaco low\") over northern Argentina and westerlies in the southern parts of the region. Most of the precipitation falls during the summer, when hot temperatures and high insolation lead to the development of a low pressure system (\"Chaco low\") situated over northern Argentina that interacts with the South Atlantic anticyclone to generate a pressure gradient that brings moist easterly winds to the region, favouring precipitation, which mostly occurs in the form of convective thunderstorms. More than 85% of the annual rainfall occurs from October to March, which represents the warm season. In contrast, the winter months are dry due to these systems weakening, and the lower insolation that weakens the Chaco low over northern Argentina. Eastern and southeastern areas of the region receive more precipitation than the western areas since they receive more summer rainfall. As such, most of Mendoza province and San Juan province receive the lowest annual precipitation with mean summer precipitation averaging less than and in rare cases, no summer rainfall. Further eastwards in San Luis province, mean summer rainfall averages around and can exceed in some areas. Higher altitude locations receive precipitation in the form of snow during the winter months. In the Cuyo region, annual precipitation is highly variable from year to year and appears to follow a cycle between dry and wet years in periods of about 2, 4–5, 6–8, and 16–22 years. In wet years, easterly winds caused by the subtropical South Atlantic anticyclone are stronger, which causes more moisture towards this region while during the dry years, these winds are weaker.\n\nSummers in the region are hot and generally very sunny, averaging as much as 10 hours per day. In contrast, winters are dry and cold and average around 7–8 hours of sunshine per day. Since this region has a wide range of altitudes, ranging from 500 m to nearly 7,000 m, temperatures can vary widely with altitude. In the lowlands of Mendoza province, which lie at an altitude of around 440 m to 530 m, mean annual temperatures range from in the northern parts to in the south. At higher altitude locations and in the western parts of Mendoza province, the mean annual temperatures range from in Cristo Redentor to with a larger difference in temperatures between winter and summer months. In San Juan Province, the mean annual temperature ranges from in the provincial capital to . In San Luis province, mean annual temperatures range from in Villa Reynolds to in the provincial capital. The Sierras Pampeanas, which cross into both San Juan province and San Luis province have a milder climate with mean annual temperatures ranging from . In all locations, at altitudes over 3,800 m, permafrost is present while icy conditions persist year round at altitudes over 4,000 m.\n\nThe Zonda, a Foehn wind characterized by warm, dry air can cause temperatures to exceed in some cases while in summer, temperatures can exceed such as in 2003. This wind often precedes following a cold front passage across Argentina and tends to occur when a low pressure system brings heavy rain to the Chilean side, and when an upper level trough allows the winds to pass over the Andes to descend downwards. As such, when a zonda wind event occurs, the temperature may raise as much as in a few hours with humidity approaching 0%. In contrast, cold waves are also common, owing to the Andes channeling cold air from the south, allowing cold fronts to frequently come during the winter months, causing cool to cold temperatures with temperatures that can fall below freezing. Temperatures can dip below at the higher altitudes.\n\nAs in other parts of Argentina, nature tourism is an important source of income. Amongst sites that receive a large number of visitors, the following are its main attractions:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312544", "title": "Highland Boundary Fault", "text": "Highland Boundary Fault\n\nThe Highland Boundary Fault is a major fault zone that traverses Scotland from Arran and Helensburgh on the west coast to Stonehaven in the east. It separates two different geological terranes which give rise to two distinct physiographic terrains: the Highlands and the Lowlands, and in most places it is recognisable as a change in topography. Where rivers cross the fault, they often pass through gorges, and the associated waterfalls can be a barrier to salmon migration.\n\nThe fault is believed to have formed in conjunction with the Strathmore syncline to the south-east during the Acadian orogeny in a transpressive regime that caused the uplift of the Grampian block and a small sinistral movement on the Highland Boundary Fault.\n\nOne of the earliest and most prominent references to the Highland Boundary Fault was by George Barrow in 1912, ʻOn the Geology of Lower Dee-side and the Southern Highland Borderʼ, which highlights the nature of the rocks accompanying the Highland Border and describes the outlining mineral zones associated with metamorphism. In the same publication, Barrow also outlines the ʻHighland Faultʼ and the areas where he believes there are planes of overthrust. Barrowʼs description of the structural nature of the rocks along the Highland Border suggests that rocks along both ends of the fault plane are indistinguishable from one another, with no brecciation.\n\nAligned southwest to northeast from Lochranza on Arran, the Highland Boundary Fault bisects Bute and crosses the southeastern parts of the Cowal and Rosneath peninsulas, as it passes up the Firth of Clyde. It comes ashore near Helensburgh, then continues through Loch Lomond. The loch islands of Inchmurrin, Creinch, Torrinch, and Inchcailloch all lie on the Highland Boundary Fault.\nFrom Loch Lomond the Highland Boundary Fault continues to Aberfoyle, then Callander, Comrie and Crieff. It then forms the northern boundary of Strathmore and reaches the North Sea immediately north of Stonehaven near the ruined Chapel of St. Mary and St. Nathalan.\nAeromagnetic maps of Great Britain and Northern Ireland show that the Highland Boundary Fault can be traced from Ireland to the region of Greenock. In these areas, the Highland Boundary Fault is seen to be dividing a northerly low area from a southerly high area. The fault is often considered a terrane boundary: the Midland Valley terrane lies to the south whilst the Southern Highlands or Grampian terrane lies to the north\nIn 1970, Hall and Dagley identified the Highland Boundary Fault as coincident with a regional magnetic feature dividing a string of negative anomalies in the north from positive ones in the south. On discovering this, Hall and Dagley concluded that the observed trend, which followed the length of the Dalradian trough, transition from positive to negative anomalies. This linear feature of magnetic anomalies has since been referred to as the Fair Head–Clew Bay line.\n\nAt present, it is believed that the Highland Boundary Fault was active during two main orogenic events associated with the Caledonian orogeny : the Grampian orogeny in the Early Ordovician and the Acadian orogeny in the Middle Devonian. The fault allowed the Midland Valley to descend as a major rift by up to and there was subsequent vertical movement. This earlier vertical movement was later replaced by a horizontal shear. A complementary fault, the Southern Uplands Fault, forms the southern boundary for the Central Lowlands.\nThe age of the Highland Boundary Fault has been inferred to be between Ordovician to middle Devonian and through several generations it has been interpreted as a graben-bounding normal fault, a major sinistral strike-slip fault, a northwest-dipping reverse fault or terrane boundary. The reason the precise nature of the fault is still unknown is because there is little evidence of a continuous fault plane on the surface. More recently, seismic activities marking the fault line have been analysed to show that the 2003 Aberfoyle earthquake had a hypocentre at depth and was caused by an oblique sinistral strike-slip fault with normal movement. The fault plane was estimated to be dipping at 65° NW.\n\nTo the north and west of the Highland Boundary Fault lie hard Precambrian and Cambrian metamorphic rocks: marine deposits metamorphosed to schists, phyllites and slates, namely the Dalradian Supergroup and the Highland Border Ophiolite suite. To the south and east are Old Red Sandstone conglomerates and sandstones: softer, sedimentary rocks of the Devonian and Carboniferous periods. Between these areas lie the quite different rocks of the Highland Border Complex (at one time called the Highland Boundary Complex), a weakly metamorphosed sedimentary sequence of sandstones, lavas, limestones, mudstones and conglomerates. These make up a zone which is found discontinuously along the line of the fault and which is up to in width.\n\nThe Dalradian Supergroup consists of metasedimentary rocks which underwent polyphase deformation and metamorphism during the Precambrian and early Paleozoic. The oldest Dalradian rocks (the Grampian Group) were deformed and metamorphosed around 750 Ma. The deposition of younger Dalradian sediments continued until 590 Ma, when the sediments underwent transformation to the greenschist facies during the Proterozoic and Ordovician.\n\nModeling of gravity and magnetic data along the fault has confirmed the presence of an extensive ophiolite suite. The Dalradian metasedimentary rocks are overlain by an obducted ophiolite that is continuous for at least several kilometres on either side of the Highland Boundary Fault. The models generated from magnetic data suggest that the ophiolite is only slightly displaced vertically by the fault.\n\nThe Old Red Sandstone is a magnafacies of red beds and lacustrine deposits from the Late Silurian to the Carboniferous. The NE segment of the Highland Boundary Fault is marked by an abrupt change in the dip of the Old Red Sandstone from around 20° to near-vertical and subsequently exposes the Old Red Sandstone basement.\n\nIt is currently believed that there were two main displacement events along the Highland Boundary Fault: the Acadian, and the post-Acadian.\n\nEvidence for the Acadian displacement event is based on the geochemical study of detrital garnets in the Lower Old Red Sandstone on the Northern limb of the Strathmore Basin. These garnets were linked to those in isolated Dalradian sediments in the northwest, providing evidence for post-Early Devonian (Acadian) movement to be only few tens of kilometers.\n\nIn addition, the Lintrathen ignimbrite, which is present at the base of the Lower Devonian sequence was traced along the fault and it was found that the displacement was both short and lateral.\n\nThe post-Acadian movements are highlighted in the stratigraphy of the region. The Lower Old Red Sandstone is unconformably overlain by Upper Old Red Sandstone, where the Upper Old Red Sandstone is tilted close to the Highland Boundary Fault.\n"}
{"id": "2312546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312546", "title": "Redemption's Son", "text": "Redemption's Son\n\nRedemption's Son is the third studio album by Joseph Arthur. The double album was first released in the UK only on May 20, 2002, due to Joseph being dropped by Virgin Records/EMI in the US. Eventually, Enjoy Records picked up the record and released it stateside on November 26, 2002 with a slightly different track listing and alternate artwork.\n\nThe song \"September Baby\" was covered by Joseph's friend Greg Connors, and appeared on Connors' 2009 album \"Full Moon Flashlight\". Hubcap City's Bill Taft also features in the song, providing a haunting cornet solo to the song.\n\nIn the US, Enjoy Records released a promo-only radio single for \"Honey and the Moon\" in January 2003. In the UK, the song was re-recorded for release as a single in 2007. Additionally, three other songs from the album were released as promo-only singles in the UK and US.\n\n\nIn 2002, a promo CD titled Are You With Us? was released via Virgin Records. The CD featured 15 tracks, most of which would appear on the finalized track listing of \"Redemption's Son\". As this was not the official finalized release, and considering that Joseph was dropped by Virgin Records, few promos were made.\n\n\n\"Forgive Your Heart\" is an unreleased track. \"Build Back Up\" is a song Joseph wrote shortly after the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. The song first appeared on the compilation album \"\" in April 2002.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312547", "title": "Robert Whaley", "text": "Robert Whaley\n\nRobert Antawon Whaley (born April 16, 1982) is an American former professional basketball player.\n\nWhaley graduated from Benton Harbor High School in 2001. He was a leading contender for Mr. Basketball of Michigan, but Benton Harbor came up just short of winning the championship. He attended Barton County Community College for two years, then transferred to the University of Cincinnati in 2003 and Walsh University in 2004. He was the NAIA Division II Player of the Year in 2004–05 and led Walsh to its first NAIA National Championship. He averaged 19.9 points and 7.5 rebounds in 35 games as a senior. Walsh left the NAIA and joined the NCAA in 2011.\n\nWhaley was selected by the Utah Jazz with 51st overall pick in the 2005 NBA draft, becoming the most recent player drafted out of an NAIA school, as of 2018. As a rookie in 2005–06, Whaley appeared in 23 games and averaged 2.1 points and 1.9 rebounds per game. He scored a career-high 11 points on December 23, 2005 against the New York Knicks. On January 26, 2006, he was ruled out indefinitely with torn cartilage in his right knee. He returned to action in March 2006, but appeared in just one further game after returning to injury.\n\nOn December 11, 2005, Whaley and teammate Deron Williams got into an altercation with a group of Denver Nuggets fans who were harassing them outside a Park City club. Both Whaley and Williams gave police false names at that time, and both were cited for providing false information to police. Whaley, who sustained a 6-inch cut on his hand at the bar that night, was suspended one game by the Jazz for lying about how he received the injury.\nOn June 8, 2006, Whaley was traded, along with Kris Humphries, to the Toronto Raptors in exchange for Rafael Araújo. He was later waived by the Raptors on June 21, 2006.\n\nAfter being released by the Toronto Raptors, Whaley moved to the Dominican Republic where he played briefly with Metros de Santiago. For the 2006–07 season, he joined the Twin City Ballers of the American Basketball Association. In March 2007, he left the Ballers and joined Petrochimi Imam of Iran for the rest of the season.\n\nOn November 1, 2007, Whaley was selected by the Los Angeles D-Fenders in the second round of the 2007 NBA Development League Draft. He was waived by the team on January 4, 2008, and reacquired on February 13. In 22 games (nine starts) for the D-Fenders in 2007–08, he averaged 4.0 points and 2.7 rebounds in 12.3 minutes per game.\n\nIn September 2008, Whaley was convicted in Michigan of running a drug house. Having absconded from his probation in January 2009, a National Crime Information Center warrant was issued for his arrest in March 2010. He was arrested in Salt Lake County, and while he was being searched to be booked into jail, officers found several bags of marijuana on his possession. In June 2010, he was extradited to Michigan, and was later sentenced to a two-year jail term in which he served between 2010 and 2012.\n\nIn 2014, Whaley became an assistant coach for Utah Elite, a talented AAU program made up primarily of fifth-graders.\n\nOn March 7, 2016, Whaley was ordered to serve 60 days in Davis County Jail after pleading guilty to a third-degree felony count of burglary. He was arrested on May 1, 2015 for burglarizing a Layton Marriott Hotel.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312548", "title": "North Central Province, Sri Lanka", "text": "North Central Province, Sri Lanka\n\nNorth Central Province ( \"Uturumeda Palata\", \"Wada Maththiya Maakaanam\") is a province of Sri Lanka. Its capital is Anuradhapura. The province is not densely populated, and it has a weak economy as the land tends to be dry tropical woodlands.\n\nThe centralised system of Sri Lanka, which is a Unitary State, failed to satisfy the aspirations of the people and there was growing insistence on decentralization of administrative processes in order to achieve rapid economic and social development of the country.\nIn the Sri Lankan context, devolution means transferring political and administrative decision-making authority from central government to elected bodies at lower levels.\n\n\n\nThe instruments of devolution:\n\n(i) The Thirteenth Amendment to the Constitution (1987) and\n\n(ii)The Provincial Councils Act No 42 of 1987\n\nThe Thirteenth Amendment to the Constitution provides for -\n\nThe establishment of Provincial Councils\n\nThe appointment and powers of the Governor of Provinces\n\nMembership and tenure of Provincial Councils\n\nThe appointment and powers of the Board of Ministers\n\nThe legislative powers of the Provincial Councils\n\nAlternative arrangements where there is a failure in the administrative machinery\n\nThe establishment of the High Court of the Province\n\nThe establishment of the Finance Commission\n\nProvincial council is the main administrative and control body of the North Central Province which is the largest province in the country covered 16% of total country's land area. It consists two districts called Polonnaruwa and Anuradhapure; Anuradhapure is the largest district in the country.\nNCP also called \"Wew Bendi Rajje\" because there are more than 3000 medium and large scale tanks situated in the province. More than 65% of NCP's people depend on basic Agriculture and agro base industries.\n\nNorth Central Province has numerous potentials for Investors to start their Businesses, specially Agriculture, agro based industries and Livestock sectors.\n\nUturumeda is divided into 2 districts:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312559", "title": "German Whist", "text": "German Whist\n\nGerman Whist is a variation on classic whist for two players. Also called \"Chinese Whist\", the game is most likely of British origin. For instance, in Sweden the game is sometimes known as \"Hamburger Whist\" after the German city of Hamburg., but other names can well be used (\"Tvåmannawhist\" meaning \"Two men Whist\" for instance, but that name can also refer to another version of Whist for two). There are several variants of this game. \nThe most important difference between variants is whether all the 26 tricks count or only the last 13. Another difference is whether trumps should be used or if the game should be about taking as many (\"high play\") - or as few (\"low play\") tricks as possible.\n\nWhile trumps or \"high\"/\"low\" makes little difference to how much luck is involved, the difference between counting all 26 tricks or only the last 13, beginning the so-called \"endgame\" as the hand is finished (beginning at the 14th trick), makes a large difference. When playing this game in two sections, the foreplay and the endgame, this version becomes the most skillful game of all for two players with a common card deck. This is because both players can calculate exactly which 13 cards the opponent has, and plan his or her play based on that knowledge. It isn't possible to know this earlier in the game.\n\nGerman Whist is a two player game using a standard deck of 52 cards ranked A (high) K Q J 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 (low) in each suit.\n\nThe initial dealer is chosen by cutting the deck, and the turn to deal alternates after each hand. Each player is dealt 13 cards, dealt one at a time. The twenty-seventh card is placed face-up on the face-down pack. The suit of this face-up card is either the trump suit for the entire hand - or decides whether to play \"high\" (taking as many tricks as possible) or \"low\" (taking as few as possible). If the twenty-seventh card is a hearts or diamond, high is played. If it's a club or spade, low is played. In the latter version the 13 first tricks almost never are counted in the score. Hence the game is split in two sections, known as \"foreplay\" and \"endgame\". (Also other versions of deciding how the game is to be played occurs. For instance alternation between trump and high or low)\n\nThe non-dealer chooses any card to play for the first trick and the other player must follow suit if he can. \nIf both cards are the same suit then the higher card wins. If they are of different suits the first player wins unless the second player played a trump, in which case the trump wins.\nThe winner of the trick takes the face-up card and adds it to his hand, the loser then takes the face-down card below it without showing it to his opponent. The next card in the pack is then turned over and the winner plays first in the next trick. Each player stays with 13 cards in his hand until the pack is exhausted. After this the remaining 13 tricks are played without replenishment until the cards in both players hands are exhausted.\n\nThere are several versions of the opening. But they all come down to the colour of the 27th card (the top of the pack). For instance the 27th card can indicate which trump is to be used. But in other versions the 27th instead shows whether \"low\" or \"high\" are to be played. A black card means the players in the \"endgame\" shall take as few tricks as possible, while a red card means they in the endgame shall take as many tricks as possible.\n\nThere are further at least two variants on scoring. The winner is the player who wins the most tricks in:\n\nThe score count always begins at the 7th trick taken in the endgame. For instance in a \"high\" game 10 vs 3 cards gives 4 points to the one who took 10 tricks. If it was a \"low\" game, the 4 points goes to the other player.\n\nThe strategy for the two variants, in the first stage, is slightly different. In the first variant the player must balance winning the current trick against the probability of winning future tricks.\n\nIn the second variant the player must try to assemble the best possible hand for the endgame. This is however not so simple as it may appear. Assume hearts is trump and you will begin the foreplay. You have four low hearts on your hand, but also a possibility for a good topped suit in spades, and the top card of the pack is two of clubs. Now despite of a \"worthless\" card to play for, playing one's highest trump might reveal the trump situation on the opponent's hand, and You will indeed reduce the numbers of trumps (which isn't \"Your colour\"), and finally, if the opponent plays a lower trump You will know that the opponent may have a good trump colour (which isn't the case if the opponent needs to play another colour) finally by \"winning\" the two of clubs, You will keep the advantage to decide which colour to play next time. In general is it a good idea to attempt to keep \"the serve\", but not always at any costs.\n\nPlaying a card of same value as the card to play for is often good, when it comes to \"middle cards\" like 7 to 10, but even more importantly is to choose colour wisely. But also remember, when the Ace is gone, the King becomes like an Ace, and if the three top cards in a colour is gone, then the Jack is the highest card in that colour, etc. Also the lowest cards are important to know, especially when the play is low. The real \"key\" is however to know which colour to play, in order to win also lower cards, though not by paying too good of Your own good colours. Don't focus so much on bad card at the top of the pack, rather think of the colour to play. If the card to play for suits You well, play a safe card. If the card to play for is \"a middle card\", play a slightly higher card, but just enough high for the opponent to have difficulties to \"come in\".\n\nWhen an Ace is gone, the King becomes like an Ace, etc. Try to remember which card that currently is the highest in each colour. Count especially trumps. But don't be afraid to play trump, as long as it's likely the opponent actually also has trump. (If it is in Your interest that the number of trump cards is reduced in the endgame especially) In \"low\" games try to build up long suits from the bottom. 2-4-6-8-Q-K-A is a great colour to have in a low endgame. Even better is 2-3-5-7-Q-K-A, from which You can give the serve to the opponent, provided at least one card in the same colour exists on the opponent's hand. But \"first\" play all single high cards as soon as possible. When playing low, it is very easy to get trapped and having to take all the last ten tricks due to a miscalculation. The twos are often more important than Aces in high or trump games. (And as soon as a \"deuce\" vanishes in the foreplay, the three takes its place and so on.)\n\nBy counting every colour and the highest known card in every colour one may easier learn which card one's opponent has (or close enough), when the endgame begins. Then you also know the best way to play the endgame cards. With exception of when playing low, the endgame is close to the playing part of bridge.\n\nDownloadable software is available from the following websites:\n"}
{"id": "2312560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312560", "title": "Investigational device exemption", "text": "Investigational device exemption\n\nAn investigational device exemption (IDE) allows an investigational device (i.e. a device that is the subject of a clinical study) to be used in order to collect safety and effectiveness data required to support a premarket approval (PMA) application or a\npremarket notification [510(k)] submission to Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Clinical studies are most often conducted to support a PMA. Only a small percentage of 510(k)'s require clinical data to support the application. Investigational use also includes clinical evaluation of certain modifications or new intended uses of legally marketed devices. All clinical evaluations of investigational devices, unless exempt, must have an approved IDE before the study is initiated.\n\nClinical evaluation of devices that have not been cleared for marketing requires:\n\nAn approved IDE permits a device to be shipped lawfully for the purpose of conducting investigations of the device without complying with other requirements of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act that would apply to devices in commercial distribution. Sponsors need not submit a PMA or premarket notification, register their establishment, or list the device while the device is under investigation. Sponsors of IDEs are also exempt from the Quality System (QS) Regulation except for the requirements for design control.\n\nA commercial sponsor of a significant risk device study must submit a complete IDE application to FDA. There are no preprinted forms for an IDE application; however, an IDE application must include certain required information. The sponsor must demonstrate in the application that there is reason to believe that the risks to human subjects from the proposed investigation are outweighed by the anticipated benefits to subjects and the importance of the knowledge to be gained, that the investigation is scientifically sound, and that there is reason to believe that the device as proposed for use will be effective.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312562", "title": "Foundation for New Era Philanthropy", "text": "Foundation for New Era Philanthropy\n\nThe Foundation for New Era Philanthropy was a notorious Ponzi scheme that operated from 1989 until its collapse in 1995 after having raised over $500 million from 1100 donors and embezzling $135 million of this. Most of the money was stolen from Christian religious organizations and charities in the Philadelphia, Pennsylvania area. The scheme was publicly discovered by an accounting teacher at a college in Michigan called Albert Meyer and the auditing firm Coopers & Lybrand working with its client, a local religious college in Los Angeles who suffered no loss in its participation.\n\nThe Foundation was founded by John G. Bennett Jr., a Christian businessman from the Philadelphia area who had previously run a variety of different entities, including some Pennsylvania state drug education centers and a corporate training business.\n\nIn 1989, Bennett invited several friends to become \"beneficiary donors\" in a new organization he was founding. They were told that if they contributed at least $5,000 for three months, he would double it. He explained that he had identified secret donors who would match charitable contributions raised by his friends. So rather than donating $5,000 to charity, a sponsor gave the money to New Era Philanthropy for three months, then he or she could donate $10,000.\n\nHis friends obliged by giving him various amounts, which Bennett used to pay his bills. He was able to pay them their doubled funds in January 1990 by tapping a payment made to a consulting business he ran on the side. This was the last \"real\" income paid to investors. To have funds ready to pay off the climbing number of deposits, he increased the minimum \"contribution\" to $25,000 and lengthened the minimum waiting period. Different donors were told different things; over time the waiting period grew from six to nine to ten months. The number of anonymous donors, anonymous benefactors, and anonymous philanthropists also varied, though Bennett eventually settled on claiming to have nine of them.\n\nJohn M. Templeton, Jr., son of John Templeton, Sr., the famous investor and philanthropist, was a friend of Bennett, and people believed that he was one of the anonymous donors. In addition, Prudential Securities was a prominent part of the setup (and became the subject of a $90 million lawsuit accusing them of complicity).\n\nIn 1994, Bennett expanded the program to allow \"donations\" by nonprofit organizations.\n\nThe program remained small until 1993, when the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences asked for a quarter-million dollar match. After successfully completing that match, many major organizations such as the Philadelphia Public Library and the University of Pennsylvania joined, along with churches and other Christian organizations. Like most modern pyramid or Ponzi schemes, Bennett's was an \"affinity\" scheme, in which he defrauded people of common interest: in this case, local nonprofit organizations and Christian charities. Using the swelling funds from these churches, Bennett expanded further, establishing offices in Radnor, Pennsylvania. He had glossy brochures and a staff to process all the money coming in.\n\nHe expanded his sales force by encouraging organizations to take a \"finder's fee\" from any money they raised. In other words, if a representative could convince donors to give $10,000,000, the agent could keep $1,000,000 for himself, give the remaining $9,000,000 to New Era and get back $18,000,000 for the nonprofit in six months.\n\nBy and large his donors did not ask many questions. When they wanted proof that the money they donated was not being stolen, he provided evidence that the Foundation owned government bonds. However, he was showing the same bonds to everybody, and they had been pledged as collateral on loans anyway. He also had prospective participants speak with supposed representatives of Prudential Bache Securities. One of the conditions of the participation was that various tranches had to be committed to. One of the schemes was to space out the participation over the course of one year in three tranches, with one being repaid and two tranches always being held by New Era. One of the tip offs of the fraud were the tax returns filed by the Trust, which were publicly available. The accounting for the numerous funds held by New Era were not evident in the financial statements. New Era used a small one-man CPA firm which had erroneous financial opinions on the financial statements which Coopers & Lybrand investigated. This was one of several red flags noted.\n\nBennett told prospects that his anonymous donors met several times a year, in person or by phone. Former U.S. Treasury Secretary William E. Simon, who ironically lost a lot of money to the scam, asked to be admitted to the donor panel. Bennett never responded to the request and Simon gave him money anyway.\n\nWith the cash flowing through his hands, Bennett made all sorts of private investments. He bought a share of a travel agency and ran all of New Era's travel business through it. He also purchased a publishing house and other businesses.\n\nIn early 1995, the Foundation for New Era Philanthropy was receiving praise in the press for giving money to religious organizations and involving high school students in charitable events. However, the end came swiftly.\n\nOn May 15, 1995, a skeptical article about the Foundation appeared on the front page of \"The Wall Street Journal\". The same day, the Foundation capitulated in the face of a lawsuit demanding repayment of a $44,000,000 loan and filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. In filing, the foundation stated that its assets were worth $80 million with liabilities of $551 million.\n\nA close examination of the documents filed in the subsequent lawsuits reveals that more than $354 million had passed through New Era's hands and that Bennett had taken $8 million of that for himself.\n\nIn the end, by liquidating all of Bennett's personal assets and reclaiming funds that had been paid to earlier participants, the court was able to bring the total loss down to $135,000,000, spread among all participants in the scheme. In other words, participants who got out early and suffered no losses were required to give the money back, to be shared with others who were less careful (or less lucky).\n\nBennett faced 82 federal counts of money laundering and wire, mail and bank fraud. He planned to claim in his defense that he had been possessed by \"religious fervor\", but the judge did not allow this. In the end, Bennett pleaded no contest to all the charges in March 1997. Though federal sentencing guidelines indicated a sentence of 22 to 27 years, the judge gave him 12.\n\nThe scandal touched 1,100 individuals and charities, including more than 180 evangelical groups, colleges, and seminaries. A partial list appears below.\n\nAll Ponzi schemes die sooner or later, as they are inherently unsustainable. Bennett's particular scam collapsed because of an investigation headed by Mary Beth Osborn, head of the Charitable Trust Section of the Pennsylvania Attorney General's office. She had received a letter in 1993 from a suspicious whistleblower within New Era. Her inquiry eventually resulted in New Era's registry with the IRS.\n\nAs Bennett started to disclose greater financial details, New Era caught the wary eye of Albert Meyer, a Spring Arbor University accounting professor, whose institution in Michigan had been drawn into the matching scheme. Meyer's research indicated that the Foundation was a scam, but Spring Arbor College successfully collected on its early investment. College officials told Meyer that he was going to endanger their ability to get matching grants if he kept asking so many questions. They went so far as to wave a check from New Era in Meyer's face before investing more money. Meyer however was sure he was right and alerted federal investigators and \"The Wall Street Journal\" that New Era had all the features of a pyramid scam. After New Era collapsed, the president of Spring Arbor College called Meyer to apologize. \"You were right all along. We should have listened to you,\" he admitted.\n\nAccording to the Pennsylvania Attorney General's complaint, prominent victimized charities (listed without dollar amounts) included the Boy Scouts of America, the Environmental Defense Fund, Haverford College, Harvard University, Princeton University, The Nature Conservancy, One to One Partnership Inc., Planned Parenthood, the Philadelphia Orchestra, Stanford University Medical School, the United Way and Yale Law School. Some of the organizations with known involvement amounts included (in alphabetical order):\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312566", "title": "Tetsuo Hara", "text": "Tetsuo Hara\n\nA native of Tokyo, Hara attended Hongō Junior and Senior High School and worked as an assistant to manga artist Yoshihiro Takahashi after graduating. As an amateur, he won the first prize of the 33rd \"Fresh Jump\" award for his boxing short story \"Super Challenger\". Hara's professional career began with his first published work: \"Mad Fighter\" in 1982. His first serialized work in the \"Weekly Shōnen Jump\" was the \"Iron Don Quixote\", a motocross manga which lasted only ten weeks in serialization. He achieved fame after the publication of \"Hokuto no Ken\" (\"Fist of the North Star\") in 1983, which he co-created with Buronson and ran for six years in \"Weekly Jump\". His next long-running serial was \"Hana no Keiji\",a period tale loosely based on a novel by Keiichiro Ryu, which was published in \"Weekly Jump\" from 1990 to 1993. He would go on to produce several shorter serials and one-shots for Shueisha until departing from the company in 2000.\n\nIn 2001, he became one of the founding members of the manga editing company Coamix and would go on to illustrate \"Sōten no Ken\" (\"Fist of the Blue Sky\"), a prequel to \"Hokuto no Ken\", which was serialized in \"Weekly Comic Bunch\" from 2001 until the magazine's final issue in 2010. Originally published as a weekly serial, \"Sōten no Ken\" was changed to a semi-regular feature after Hara was diagnosed with keratoconus. Despite previously announcing his intentions to retire after completing \"Sōten no Ken\", he would go on to illustrate his current series \"Ikusa no Ko: The Legend of Nobunaga Oda\", published in \"Monthly Comic Zenon\" since 2010. An English edition of \"Ikusa no Ko\" is concurrently published at the official Silent Manga Audition Community website.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312578", "title": "Kevin Fowler", "text": "Kevin Fowler\n\nKevin Fowler (born May 11, 1966) is an American singer-songwriter. He has released five studio albums, and has charted four singles on the \"Billboard\" Hot Country Songs charts, including the top 40 hit \"Pound Sign (#?*!)\". In addition, he wrote Sammy Kershaw's 2003 single \"Beer, Bait & Ammo\", Mark Chesnutt's 2004 single \"The Lord Loves the Drinkin' Man\" and Montgomery Gentry's 2009 single \"Long Line of Losers\".\n\nFowler was born in Amarillo, Texas, the younger of two children. His father introduced him to country music when he was a child, and as a teenager Fowler also developed a liking for rock music. He graduated in 1984 from Tascosa High School in Amarillo. Long interested in making music, Fowler began piano lessons as a young child. When he was twenty, he realized that he wanted to seriously pursue a career in music and moved to Los Angeles, California, to attend the Guitar Institute of Technology. For the next year, he learned how to play the guitar and began writing songs.\n\nAfter gaining a good knowledge of the guitar, Fowler left Los Angeles for Austin, Texas. He was a guitarist with the rock band \"Dangerous Toys\" in the early 1990s, but left to form his own Southern hard-rock band, \"Thunderfoot.\" In 1998, he left rock music all together to form a new band that would concentrate instead on Texas country music. Fowler and his new band earned themselves a weekly gig at Babe's on Sixth Street in Austin. Two years later, with no recording contracts, Fowler recorded and released his own debut album, \"Beer, Bait & Ammo\". This album sold over 30,000 copies in Texas, with the title track receiving a great deal of airplay. This song was popular enough that Mark Chesnutt began playing it in his live show, and Sammy Kershaw recorded it for one of his own albums.\n\nFowler signed with country singer Clint Black's independent \"Equity Music\" (a label distributed by Koch Entertainment) and released two additional albums for that label until Equity ceased operations in December 2008. Montgomery Gentry recorded a cover of Fowler's \"Long Line of Losers.\"\n\nIn January 2010, Fowler signed to Lyric Street Records, releasing \"Beer Season\" that same month. His second single, \"Pound Sign (#?*!),\" followed in April. That same month, Lyric Street Records announced its closure, and Fowler was one of four artists to be transferred to parent company Disney Music Group. In May 2010, \"Pound Sign\" became Fowler's first Top 40 hit on the country music charts, peaking at No. 34.\n\nFowler also collaborated with country rap artist Colt Ford on the song \"Hip Hop in a Honky Tonk\", on Ford's 2010 song \"Chicken & Biscuits\", in which he sings vocals on the song's chorus. In 2011, Fowler signed to Ford's label, Average Joe's Entertainment. In early 2011, Fowler released the single \"Girl in a Truck,\" which hit number 1 on the Texas Music Chart released Feb. 21, 2011. The song was released regionally to radio stations in the Texas and Oklahoma areas. Fowler's sixth album, \"Chippin' Away\", was released via Average Joe's Entertainment in 2011.\n\nFowler's single, \"Here's To Me and You,\" peaked at #1 on the Texas Music Chart and held that position for 3 weeks in a row. The official music video for \"Here's To Me and You\" premiered on CMT.com on September 19, 2012. On November 21, Fowler released a limited-time only free download of a brand new, unreleased song, \"Santa Got Busted By The Border Patrol.\"\n\nOn September 24, 2013, Fowler released a new single, \"How Country Are Ya?\" The single is the title track of Fowler's seventh studio album. On January 21, 2014, Fowler released a new single, \"Love Song,\" from the album. The album, \"How Country Are Ya?\", was released on March 4, 2014. \"Before Somebody Gets Hurt\" (feat. Amy Rankin of The Rankin Twins), Fowler's fourth single off of the \"How Country Are Ya?\" album, hit #1 on the Texas Music Charts on June 8, 2015.\n\nDuring 2013 and 2014, Fowler starred in television commercials for Benny Boyd Auto Group, Rodeo Austin and the Texas Department of Transportation. Fowler previewed music from an upcoming record in March 2016. From the preview, he released his new single \"Sellout Song\" feat. Zane Williams in April 2016. On Friday, October 21, 2016 Kevin Fowler released Coming To A Honky Tonk Near You, an eight-song album featuring \"Texas Forever.\" In 2017, Fowler was featured in a television commercial for the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality. Fowler was promoting the \"Take Care of Texas\" campaign regarding state parks and environmental education.\n\n\"Bar stool Stories\" (2019)\n\"Dos Borrachos\" w/ Roger Creager (2019)\n\n"}
{"id": "2312595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312595", "title": "North Eastern Province, Sri Lanka", "text": "North Eastern Province, Sri Lanka\n\nThe North Eastern Province was one of the provinces of Sri Lanka. The province was created in September 1988 by merging the Northern and Eastern provinces. This merger was declared illegal by the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka in 2006. The province was formally demerged into the Northern and Eastern provinces on 1 January 2007. The capital of the province was Trincomalee.\n\nThe Indo-Lanka Accord signed on 29 July 1987 required the Sri Lankan government to devolve powers to the provinces and, in the interim, to merge the Northern and Eastern provinces into one administrative unit. The accord required a referendum to be held by 31 December 1988 in the Eastern Province to decide whether the merger should be permanent. Crucially, the accord allowed the Sri Lankan president to postpone the referendum at his discretion\n\nOn 14 November 1987 the Sri Lankan Parliament passed the 13th Amendment to the 1978 Constitution of Sri Lanka and the Provincial Councils Act No 42 of 1987, establishing provincial councils. Nine provincial councils were created by order on 3 February 1988. On 2 and 8 September 1988 President Jayewardene issued proclamations enabling the Northern and Eastern provinces to be one administrative unit administered by one elected Council. The North Eastern Province was born.\n\nThe proclamations were only meant to be a temporary measure until a referendum was held in the Eastern Province on a permanent merger between the two provinces. However, the referendum was never held and successive Sri Lankan presidents have issued proclamations annually extending the life of the \"temporary\" entity.\n\nThe merger was bitterly opposed by Sri Lankan nationalists. The combined North Eastern Province occupied one fourth of Sri Lanka. The thought of the Tamil Tigers controlling this province, directly or indirectly, alarmed them greatly. On 14 July 2006, after a long campaign against the merger, the JVP filed three separate petitions with the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka requesting a separate Provincial Council for the East. On 16 October 2006 the Supreme Court ruled that the proclamations issued by President Jayewardene were null and void and had no legal effect. The North Eastern Province was formally demerged into the Northern and Eastern provinces on 1 January 2007.\n\nThe 13th Amendment to the 1978 Constitution of Sri Lanka and the Provincial Councils Act No 42 of 1987 established provincial councils. Nine provincial councils were created by order on 3 February 1988. The first elections for provincial councils took place on 28 April 1988 in North Central, North Western, Sabaragamuwa, and Uva provinces.\n\nElections in the newly merged North Eastern Province were scheduled for 19 November 1988. However, the Indian Peace Keeping Force (IPKF), which at that time occupied the province, rigged the elections in the north so that the Eelam People's Revolutionary Liberation Front (EPRLF) and Eelam National Democratic Liberation Front (ENDLF), two Indian backed paramilitary groups, won all of the 36 seats in the north uncontested. However, elections did take place for the 35 seats in the east. The Sri Lanka Muslim Congress won 17 seats, EPRLF 12 seats, ENDLF 5 seats and the United National Party 1 seat. On 10 December 1988 Annamalai Varadaraja Perumal, a former lecturer at the Jaffna University Economics Department, of the EPRLF became the first Chief Minister of the North Eastern Provincial Council.\n\nOn 1 March 1990, just as the IPKF were preparing to withdraw from Sri Lanka, Perumal moved a motion in the North-East Provincial Council declaring an independent Eelam. President Premadasa reacted to Perumal's UDI by dissolving the provincial council and imposing direct rule on the province.\n\nThe province was ruled directly from Colombo until May 2008 when elections were held for the demerged Eastern Provincial Council. The first consecutive Northern Provincial Council elections took place in 2013, with ITAK securing a majority of votes. C. V. Vigneswaran was appointed as the 1st Chief Minister of Northern Province following the results.\n\nThe governors of the Sri Lankan provinces tend to be mostly retired politicians, judges and military officers. The North Eastern Province had six governors in its 18 years of existence:\n"}
{"id": "2312620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312620", "title": "Hugo Myatt", "text": "Hugo Myatt\n\nHugo Myatt (born 1945) is a British actor and theatre director, best known for his role as the dungeon master Treguard in the children's game show \"Knightmare\".\n\nMyatt played the role of Treguard of Dunshelm, the dungeon master and presenter of the Children's ITV game series \"Knightmare\" throughout all eight series of its run, between 1987 and 1994.\n\nMyatt met Tim Child, the creator of \"Knightmare\", while he was working as line producer on Anglia Television's regional news programme \"About Anglia\" with his wife, the then-presenter Christine Webber. Child believed that Myatt was ideal for a dungeon master role, and arranged to make a pilot for a show he entitled \"Dungeon Doom\". A few months after the first pilot a second pilot was made, which was renamed \"Knightmare\". The second pilot was successful and a full series was commissioned. Myatt's Treguard became the only character to appear consistently throughout all 112 episodes that were made over \"Knightmare's\" eight series. Myatt ad-libbed some dialogue, with \"Ooh, nasty!\" becoming a series catchphrase.\n\nIn February 2004, Myatt reprised his role of Treguard for the first time in 10 years with a single appearance in the television series \"Dick and Dom in da Bungalow\". Myatt remained locked in a cage for the entire production, and did not speak during the episode, except for a single line, \"\"Ooh, nasty!\"\", at the end. A few months later he returned to the role of Treguard once more with an appearance in the pilot episode of \"Knightmare VR\", an intended update of the original \"Knightmare\" television series. On this occasion Treguard's role was reduced, he was no longer the presenter of the show, and was present only as a disembodied avatar of Myatt that assisted the dungeoneer with snippets of advice and common sense. In 2013, he played Treguard again in a 2013 YouTube exclusive episode.\n\nDespite being strongly typecast, Myatt continued to appear in a variety of roles in television, movies, audio productions, computer games and pantomime. In 1996 he played the character of Stephanos in the Ancient Greece unit of the BBC Schools series \"Zig Zag\", and in February 2000 he played \"The Count\" in an episode of the BBC television series \"ChuckleVision\" entitled \"Out for the Count\". He also provided several voices for the English version of the Dutch children's animated series \"Alfred J. Kwak\".\n\nOutside children's television, Myatt has produced numerous computer security training videos, and has appeared in a crime reconstruction on \"Crimewatch\". In 2005, he appeared as Leon Bank in \"Snuff-Movie\", and he also played the role of Bob Snatcher in the short film \"Snatching Time\". In 2007 Myatt played the role of Mr Aston in \"The House on Straw Hill\" (also known as \"Rogue\"), and in 2010 he played the role of a vicar in \"Dead Cert\". In 2016 Myatt appeared as the character \"Dr Wilder\" in \"Bewilder Box\" a live action, immersive escape room located in the seaside resort of Brighton.\n\nMyatt is an accomplished voice actor, having provided voices for a number of computer games including \"Black and White\", \"Magic Carpet 2: The Netherworlds\", and the original \"Fable\" where he provided the voice of the guild master Weaver. He has also performed roles for the \"Doctor Who\" audio dramas \"Omega\", \"Weapon of Choice\", \"A Blind Eye\" and \"Panacea\" (part of the \"Gallifrey\" audio series), and has also provided voice acting for the \"Sapphire & Steel\" audio drama \"The Passenger\". He has more recently lent his voice to the Evil Scarecrow album Galactic Hunt in the song Enter the Knightmare, which has lyrics based on the TV show Knightmare, and voiced General Khazimov in the mobile running game \"Zombies, Run!\"\n"}
{"id": "2312624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312624", "title": "Lucigenin", "text": "Lucigenin\n\nLucigenin is an aromatic compound used in areas which include chemiluminescence. Its chemical name is bis-\"N\"-methylacridinium nitrate. It exhibits a bluish-green fluorescence.\n\nIt is used as a probe for superoxide anion in biology, for its chemiluminescent properties.\n\nIt may be prepared from acridone. \n\nThere's also a route from toluene:\n"}
{"id": "2312625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312625", "title": "Ivory Tower (1956 song)", "text": "Ivory Tower (1956 song)\n\n\"Ivory Tower\" is a popular song written by Jack Fulton and Lois Steele. Popular versions by Cathy Carr and Gale Storm, and a rhythm & blues version by Otis Williams all received major popularity in 1956. The Cathy Carr recording went to #2 on the Top 100. The Gale Storm version went to #6 on the Billboard pop charts, while the Otis Williams' version reached #5 on Billboard's R&B chart and #11 on the pop charts. Overseas, the Cathy Carr version achieved #2 on the Australian charts.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312626", "title": "Ben Ledi", "text": "Ben Ledi\n\nBen Ledi (Beinn Leitir in Scottish Gaelic) is a mountain in Stirlingshire, Scotland. It is 879 m (2884 ft) high, and is classified as a Corbett. It lies about 6.4 kilometres (4 miles) north-west of Callander, near the village of Kilmahog. It is situated in the Trossachs, an area often regarded as having some of the most romantic scenery in the Highlands.\n\nBen Ledi is particularly well known through Walter Scott's poem \"Lady of the Lake\". Supposedly in ancient times, Beltane rites were observed on the summit. There are what is thought to be possible references to these Beltane rights in some of the Gaelic names on the mountain: Creag Ghorn; 'Rock of Embers' and Creag Loisgte; 'Burned Rock'. In 1791 the Rev Doctor James Robertson being minister of the parish at the time, was required to write a description of the parish for the First Statistical Account of Scotland. In his report he mistakenly (due to the similarity to \"le dia\") took the name Ben Ledi to mean 'hill of god' which suited the purposes of the kirk of the day. The name is in fact a corruption of \"Beinn Leitir\" which translates to 'the Hill of the Slope', which is a very suitable description of the long south shoulder used to access the summit. A cairn was built on the top in 1887 to commemorate Queen Victoria's jubilee.\n\nA small lochan, Lochan nan Corp, lies at 655 m above sea level about 1.5 km to the north of the summit. The name means \"the little loch of the dead\", and was thought to be named for an accident to a funeral party at which 200 lives were lost. In truth the lochan is on the old coffin road from Glen Finlas to St Bride's chapel close to Loch Lubnaig. The pass is therefore named the Bealach nan Corp - Pass of the Dead - and the lochan is named after the pass. The lochan is not deep enough to reach past your waist nor of sufficient area to accommodate any large funeral party.\n\nThe eastern slopes of Ben Ledi are owned by Forestry and Land Scotland, and form part of the Queen Elizabeth Forest Park. A constructed path leads from a car park on the A84 road just south of Loch Lubnaig to a fence at about 270M where a rough track continues to the summit via the south shoulder, a distance of just over 3 km. An alternative route following Stank Glen leaves the shores of Loch Lubnaig about 1.5 km north of the start of the main route, reaching the summit ridge near Lochan nan Corp. The two routes may be combined to give a circular walk of about 9 km. \n\nA short distance down to the south-east of the summit trig point, an iron cross commemorates Sergeant Harry Laurie of the Killin Scottish Mountain Rescue team, who died on 1 February 1987 during a rescue operation on Ben More near Crianlarich when the helicopter crashed.\n\nIn addition to hiking the Ben is occasionally used as a take-off point for paragliding.\n\nThe Ben Ledi ridge continues north, dropping down to about 600 m before climbing again to the summit of Benvane, a Corbett not to be confused with Ben Vane, a Munro on the west side of Loch Lomond.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312628", "title": "Ivory tower", "text": "Ivory tower\n\nAn ivory tower is a metaphorical place—or an atmosphere—where people are happily cut off from the rest of the world in favor of their own pursuits, usually mental and esoteric ones. From the 19th century, it has been used to designate an environment of intellectual pursuit disconnected from the practical concerns of everyday life. Most contemporary uses of the term refer to academia or the college and university systems in many countries.\n\nThe term is referenced with a different meaning in the Biblical \"Song of Solomon \"(7:4) and was later used as an epithet for Mary. In the Christian tradition, the term \"ivory tower\" is used as a symbol for noble purity. It originates with the Song of Solomon (7:4) (\"\"Your neck is like an ivory tower\"\"; in the Hebrew Masoretic text, it is found in 7:5) and was included in the epithets for Mary in the sixteenth century Litany of the Blessed Virgin Mary (\"\"tower of ivory\"\", \"turris eburnea\" in Latin), though the title and image was in use long before that, since the 12th century Marian revival at least. It occasionally appears in art, especially in depictions of Mary in the \"hortus conclusus\". Although the term is rarely used in the religious sense in modern times, it is credited by some with inspiring the modern meaning.\n\nThe first modern usage of \"ivory tower\" in the familiar sense of an unworldly dreamer can be found in a poem of 1837, \"Pensées d'Août, à M. Villemain\", by Charles Augustin Sainte-Beuve, a French literary critic and author, who used the term \"\"tour d'ivoire\"\" for the poetical attitude of Alfred de Vigny as contrasted with the more socially engaged Victor Hugo: \"Et Vigny, plus secret, Comme en sa tour d'ivoire, avant midi rentrait\". [And Vigny, the more secretive, like he was in his ivory tower, returning before midday].\n\nHenry James' last novel, \"The Ivory Tower\", was begun in 1914 and left unfinished at his death two years later. Paralleling James' own dismaying experience of the United States after twenty years away, it chronicles the effect on a high-minded returning upper-class American of the vulgar emptiness of the Gilded Age. \"You seem all here so hideously rich,\" says his hero. Thus, there are two meanings mixed together: mockery of an absent-minded savant and admiration of someone who is able to devote his or her entire efforts to a noble cause (hence \"\"ivory\"\", a noble but impractical building material). The term has a rather negative flavor today, the implication being that specialists who are so deeply drawn into their fields of study often can't find a lingua franca with laymen outside their \"\"ivory towers\"\".\n\nIn Andrew Hodges' biography of the University of Cambridge scientist Alan Turing, he discusses Turing's 1936-38 stay at Princeton University and writes that \"[t]he tower of the Graduate College was an exact replica of Magdalen College, and it was popularly called the Ivory Tower, because of that benefactor of Princeton, the Procter who manufactured Ivory soap.\" William Cooper Procter (Princeton class of 1883) was a significant supporter of the construction of the Graduate College, and the main dining hall bears the Procter name. The skylines of Oxford and Cambridge universities, along with many Ivy League universities, are dotted with turrets and spires which are often described as 'Ivory Towers'.\n\nIn Randall Jarrell's essay 'The End of the Line' (1942), Jarrell asserts that if modern poetry is to survive then poets must come down from the \"Ivory Tower\" of elitist composition. Jarrell's main thrust is that the rich poetry of the modernist period was over-dependent upon reference to other literary works. For Jarrell the Ivory Tower led modern poetry into obscurity.\nAn ivory tower may also be an entity of \"reason, rationality and rigid structures [that] colonizes the world of lived experience,\" as explained by Kirsten J. Broadfoot in an article about the possibilities of postcolonial organizational communication. This imagined academic community creates an essence of exclusivity and superiority. Broadfoot explains this as a group that \"functions like an exclusive club whose membership is tightly controlled by what might be called a 'dominant frame.'\" In an academic sense, this leads to an \"overwhelming and disproportionate dominance\" of the United States and the Western world. The ivory tower can be dangerous, some believe, in its inherent privatization of knowledge and intellect. Academics who are seeking \"legitimacy for their narratives from the heart end up echoing the sanitized tone of the Master Narrative.\" This becomes a cyclical process as intellects collectively defend the \"imaginary ivory tower.\"\n\nWriters for Philadelphia's other newspapers sarcastically referred to the former headquarters of the establishment Philadelphia Inquirer, a white art deco tower called the Elverson Building, as the \"Ivory Tower of Truth.\"\n\nThe ivory tower is most often connected to the career and lifestyle of academics in university and college systems. They have often garnered reputations as elite institutions by joining or creating associations with other universities. In many countries, these institutions aligned themselves with a specific mission or athletic ties. Some have criticized the elitism associated with these groups. Others have also noted that these terms bear little resemblance to the actual best universities in a country.\n\nIn certain instances, these ivory-tower universities have received a disproportionate amount of regional and federal funding. They also produce a higher proportion of a country's publications and citations. Occasionally referred to as having a \"status symbol\", some have been referred to as a country's Ivy League, such as China's C9 League, the UK’s Russell Group or Germany's Excellence Initiative. They tend to be overrepresented in top university rankings, such as \"Academic Ranking of World Universities\", \"QS World University Rankings\", the \"Times Higher Education World University Rankings\", and the \"U.S. News & World Report Best Global University Ranking\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312637", "title": "Peter Pau", "text": "Peter Pau\n\nPeter Pau Tak-Hei (, born 1951) is a Hong Kong cinematographer and film director, best known to western audiences as for his work on \"Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon\", for which he won the Academy Award for Best Cinematography in 2000. One of Hong Kong's premier cinematographers, he has collaborated with directors John Woo, Ronny Yu, Ang Lee, Tsui Hark, and Wong Kar-wai.\n\nPau is a member of the Hong Kong Society of Cinematographers. The asteroid 34420 Peterpau was named in his honour in early 2006. His older sister is Hong Kong Film Awards best actress winner Paw Hee-Ching.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312640", "title": "Bioprocess", "text": "Bioprocess\n\nA bioprocess is a specific process that uses complete living cells or their components (e.g., bacteria, enzymes, chloroplasts) to obtain desired products.\n\nTransport of energy and mass is fundamental to many biological and environmental processes. Areas, from food processing (including brewing beer) to thermal design of buildings to biomedical devices to pollution control and global warming, require knowledge of how energy and mass can be transported through materials (momentum, heat transfer, etc.).\n\nCell therapy bioprocessing is a discipline that bridges the fields of cell therapy and bioprocessing (i.e., biopharmaceutical manufacturing), and is a sub-field of bioprocess engineering. The goals of cell therapy bioprocessing are to establish reproducible and robust manufacturing processes for the production of therapeutic cells. Commercially relevant bioprocesses will:\n\n\nTherapeutic cell manufacturing processes can be separated into upstream processes and downstream processes. The upstream process is defined as the entire process from early cell isolation and cultivation, to cell banking and culture expansion of the cells until final harvest (termination of the culture and collection of the live cell batch).\n\nAside from technology challenges, concerning the scalability of culture apparatus, a number of raw material supply risks have emerged in recent years, including the availability of GMP grade fetal bovine serum.\n\nThe upstream part of a bioprocess refers to the first step in which microbes/cells are grown, e.g. bacterial or mammalian cell lines (see cell culture), in bioreactors. Upstream processing involves all the steps related to inoculum development, media development, improvement of inoculum by genetic engineering process, optimization of growth kinetics so that product development can improve tremendously. Fermentation has two parts: upstream and downstream. After product development, the next step is the purification of product for desired quality. When they reach the desired density (for batch and fed-batch cultures) they are harvested and moved to the downstream section of the bioprocess.\n\nThe downstream part of a bioprocess refers to the part where the cell mass from the upstream are processed to meet purity and quality requirements. Downstream processing is usually divided into three main sections: cell disruption, a purification section and a polishing section.\nThe volatile products can be separated by distillation of the harvested culture without pre-treatment. Distillation is done at reduced pressure at continuous stills. At reduced pressure, distillation of product directly from fermentor may be possible. The steps of downstream processing are:\n\n"}
{"id": "2312641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312641", "title": "Candlewicking", "text": "Candlewicking\n\nCandlewicking, or Candlewick is a form of whitework embroidery that traditionally uses an unbleached cotton thread on a piece of unbleached muslin. It gets its name from the nature of the soft spun cotton thread, which was braided then used to form the wick for candles. Motifs are created using a variety of traditional embroidery stitches as well as a tufted stitch. Subject matter is usually taken from nature - flowers, insects, pine trees, and so on, Other traditional motifs resemble Pennsylvania Dutch or Colonial American designs. Modern designs include colored floss embroidery with the traditional white on white stitching.\n\nLoom-woven or machine-made candlewicks of the early 19th century are white bedcovers with designs created during the weaving process by raising loops over a small twig or tool.\n\nContemporary candlewicking is most commonly used as a cushion cover.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312645", "title": "David Wallace (physicist)", "text": "David Wallace (physicist)\n\nSir David James Wallace, CBE, FRS, FRSE, FREng (born 7 October 1945) is a British physicist and academic. He was the Vice-Chancellor of Loughborough University from 1994 to 2005, and the Master of Churchill College, Cambridge from 2006 to 2014.\n\nWallace was born on 7 October 1945. He was educated at Hawick High School in Hawick, Borders, Scotland and went to the University of Edinburgh where he earned a degree in Mathematical Physics and a PhD in Elementary particle theory, under the supervision of Peter Higgs.\n\nAfter postdoctoral research work as a Harkness Fellow at Princeton University, Wallace became a physics lecturer at the University of Southampton in 1972.\n\nIn 1979 he became Tait Professor of Mathematical Physics at the University of Edinburgh. He won the James Clerk Maxwell Medal and Prize in 1980. He became Director of the Edinburgh Parallel Computing Centre (EPCC) and in 1996 he was appointed a CBE for his computing work.\n\nWallace is currently Vice-President for Physical Sciences of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, of which he was made a Fellow of in 1982. He was formerly Vice-President and Treasurer of the Royal Society and Chair of the Council for the Mathematical Sciences. From 1994 to January 2006 he was the Vice-Chancellor of Loughborough University. From 2006 to 2011 he was the Director of the Isaac Newton Institute for Mathematical Sciences in Cambridge. Wallace has also been President of the Institute of Physics and Deputy Lieutenant of Leicestershire. He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering in 1998, and was a commissioner of the Royal Commission for the Exhibition of 1851 from 2001-2011.\n\nIn 2014, the Department of Mathematical Sciences at Loughborough University launched a series of public lectures honouring Wallace. The Sir David Wallace lectures are hosted by the University. Speakers have included Cédric Villani and Michael Berry (physicist).\n\nHe has a wife, Elizabeth and a daughter, Sara.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312647", "title": "Social partners", "text": "Social partners\n\nSocial partners are groups that cooperate in working relationships to achieve a mutually agreed upon goal, typically to the benefit of all involved groups. Examples of social partners include employers, employees, trade unions, government, etc.\n\nThe concept of social partners arose in Europe in part from the disorder following the Industrial Revolution. Article 152 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) states:\n\nThe Union recognizes and promotes the role of the social partners at its level, taking into account the diversity of national systems. It shall facilitate dialogue between the social partners, respecting their autonomy.\n\nThis article forms part of the Primary Law of the European Union (EU).\n\nSocial partners have a vital role to play in reaching out to workers and owners of enterprises and in particular those of SMEs and the informal economy, and in general, increasing the representation of their membership to ensure deeper and broader benefits of association, representation and leadership, including in the field of public policy advocacy, its formulation and implementation.\n\nWith the approaching of globalization, companies must bear more pressure from the competitive between countries, more issues coming up such as the environment issue, the society problem and the income distribution problem after the globalization.\n\nAt the same time, new technology had replaced the status of traditional industries that cause structural unemployment to amount of the Low-skill labors.\n\nAlso the relationship between employee and employer becomes more complicated as the atypical employment turns into mainstream in the employment market. Because of these circumstances, the relationship between labor and employer has become more like partners. And this new idea of social partners had taken shape through the International Labor Organization (ILO1) and Europe social partnership system.\n\nBut there are quite few research and example about social partners in the US，the reason is that noun ”social partner” come up after WW2, that made European understand the importance of peace in every way, this new concept helped Europe rebuild the economy after the damage of war.\n\nThere is an inextricable connection between social partners and social dialogue, but what makes a good social dialogue?\n\nThe Treaty of Lisbon (Article 152 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU) recognises the role of the social partners in labour relations and European social dialogue. They represent their members during consultations with the Commission and the negotiation of collective agreements. They also sit with the European Economic and Social Committee, alongside other organisations representing civil society. The social partners play a key role in implementing the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy for Growth and Jobs, by launching projects and initiatives at European and national level.\n\nEuropean social partners have had a considerable influence on the preparation of the following Commission proposals:\n\nThe role of governments and social partners in keeping older workers in the labour market. In view of Poland’s ranking as lowest in the EU professional activity indicators for people aged 45+, the government and social partners see the need for actions boosting occupational development of this group. Poland has a universal plan called ‘Generations’ Solidarity: Actions for Increasing Occupational Activity of People Aged 50+’, developed within the social dialogue institutions. So far it has been implemented through legislation, most importantly with regard to the pension system, and specifically raising and equalising the statutory retirement age for men and women and restricting access to early retirement schemes. Very few actions revolve around improving the quality of work of older workers.\n\nLabor Foundation, which was founded in April 2007 under the tripartite consensus on the importance of social partners' autonomous contribution to a more stable and advanced labor relations, is one and the only public institution that is engaged in the programs and activities to promote the labor relations in Korea. The programs and activities of the Foundation, which are all designed to help and guide social partners to work together with responsibility and for their common benefits, include: financial assistance for social partnership education and joint programs; workplace innovation consulting to increase competitiveness at workplace; employment generation, by creating selective worktime jobs, improving the long work practice and promoting flexible work schemes; outplacement services for retirees in their 40s or older; counseling and education to prevent and remedy unreasonable discrimination in employment; and international exchanges in the field of labor relations.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312652", "title": "David Jackson (British actor)", "text": "David Jackson (British actor)\n\nDavid Jackson (15 July 1934 – 25 July 2005) was an English actor best known for his role as Olag Gan in the first two seasons of \"Blake's 7\" and as Detective Constable Braithwaite in \"Z-Cars\" from 1972 to 1978. He was born in Liverpool, Merseyside.\n\nHis other TV credits include \"The Saint\", \"The Avengers\", \"The Sweeney\", \"Lord Peter Wimsey\" (\"The Nine Tailors\"), \"\", \"Minder\" \"(The Smaller They Are)\", \"Only Fools and Horses\", \"Wyatt's Watchdogs,\" \"Edge of Darkness\", \"Coronation Street\" and \"Lovejoy\". His film credits include roles in \"10 Rillington Place\" (1971), \"Unman, Wittering and Zigo\" (1971), \"Blood from the Mummy's Tomb\" (1971), \"Night Watch\" (1973), \"The Big Sleep\" (1978) and the cult horror film \"Killer's Moon\" (1978).\n\nIn 2002, he provided his voice talent to the audio drama \"\", part of the Doctor Who audio spin-offs by Big Finish Productions. Jackson was a science-fiction fan throughout his career and was happy to be associated with \"Blake's 7\" years after the series ended.\n\nIn 1988 he played the Vicar alongside Brian Wilde in six episodes of the BBC1 sitcom \"Wyatt's Watchdogs\". His great passion was for Victorian theatre and at one stage he produced and starred in a one-man show.\n\nDavid Jackson died of a heart attack on 25 July 2005, aged 71.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312659", "title": "UTC+01:00", "text": "UTC+01:00\n\nUTC+01:00 is an identifier for a time offset from UTC of +01:00. In ISO 8601, the associated time would be written as 2019-02-07T23:28:34+01:00. This time is used in:\n\n\"Principal cities: Berlin, Rome, Paris, Madrid, Warsaw, Prague\"\n\n\n\"Principal cities: London, Dublin, Lisbon\"\n\n\"Principal cities: Lagos, Kinshasa, Algiers, Casablanca\n"}
{"id": "2312663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312663", "title": "Saltaire Festival", "text": "Saltaire Festival\n\nSaltaire Festival occurs each September in the village of Saltaire, a World Heritage Site in the Metropolitan District of Bradford, West Yorkshire.\n\nThe Festival was founded in 2003 to celebrate 200 years since the birth of Titus Salt and the 150th anniversary of the date that he founded Saltaire. It now occurs every year for 10 days in September, attracting some 30,000 people to celebrate the local community and its heritage through the arts. Events include family and children's activities, live music, markets, drama and spoken word performances, exhibitions, and food and drink.\n\nIt is self-funding and not-for-profit, run by a registered charity staffed by a small team of local volunteers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312674", "title": "Belfast City Centre", "text": "Belfast City Centre\n\nBelfast City Centre is the central business district of Belfast, Northern Ireland.\n\nThe city centre was originally centred on the Donegall Street area. Donegall Street is now mainly a business area, but with expanding residential and entertainment development as part of the Cathedral Quarter scheme - St. Anne's, Belfast's Anglican cathedral is located here. The Roman Catholic cathedral St. Peter's is located a little to the west of the city centre.\n\nTwo of Belfast's three main newspapers - \"The Belfast Telegraph\" and \"The Irish News\" are also located nearby. \"The News Letter\", which claims to be the oldest continually published English language daily newspaper still in existence, was originally located in the area at 55 Donegall Street, site of a massive Provisional IRA carbomb in March 1972, in which seven people died and 148 were injured.\n\nThe city centre is now centred on Donegall Square (location of the City Hall), Donegall Place, Royal Avenue, Castle Junction, High Street and surrounding streets and alleys.\n\nOver the past decade the city Centre has seen expansive redevelopment. The Laganside Development includes the landmark Waterfront Hall, BT Tower, Hilton Hotel, Odyssey Complex and various riverside apartment complexes.\n\nThe Gasworks Business Park is owned by Belfast City Council and managed by the Councils Estates Management Unit. The site contains commercial offices, call centres, small business units, housing, cafés & restaurants, the Radisson Hotel and an award winning public landscaped park. The Gasworks has been internationally recognised as a key example of brownfield regeneration in Europe and has won numerous awards in relation to all aspects of its development. The initial phase is now almost complete and the City Council are currently preparing a master plan in preparation for the commencement of Phase II development.\n\nVictoria Square is a commercial, residential and leisure development in Belfast developed and built by Multi Development UK UK over 6 years. At approx 800,000 ft² (75,000m²) and costing £400m it is the biggest and one of the most expensive property developments ever undertaken in Northern Ireland. It opened on March 6, 2008. Its anchor tenant at nearly 200,000 ft² (18,581m²) is the largest House of Fraser that the retailer has opened in the UK (as opposed to taken over).\n\nIn March 2006, the government gave the go-ahead for a £300m regeneration of a run-down part of Belfast city centre, in the Cathedral Quarter, which could create up to 2,000 jobs. Plans include a new shopping centre, anchored by a department store. The project will not be completed until 2011. It is estimated that 1,000 people will help build the development and 2,000 will be employed there.\n\n\n\nNorthern Ireland Railways provide access on the Belfast Suburban Rail network with stations in proximity to the city centre.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312675", "title": "Stanisław Sedlaczek", "text": "Stanisław Sedlaczek\n\nStanisław Sedlaczek (31 January 1892 – 3 August 1941), born in Kołomyja, in what is now Ukraine, was a Polish professor and scoutmaster. One of the organizers of pre-war Sokół troops among university students, he founded the underground resistance scouting organisation \"Hufce Polskie\" during World War II.\n\nSedlaczek was arrested and sent to the German concentration camp of Auschwitz, where he died in 1941.\n"}
{"id": "2312680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312680", "title": "Kołomyja", "text": "Kołomyja\n\nKołomyja may refer to the following places:\n"}
{"id": "2312682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312682", "title": "Matt Harpring", "text": "Matt Harpring\n\nMatthew Joseph Harpring (born May 31, 1976) is an American former professional basketball player who played 11 seasons in the National Basketball Association (NBA) and is currently paired with play-by-play broadcaster Craig Bolerjack as the color analyst in broadcasting games for the Utah Jazz.\n\nAfter attending Marist School near Atlanta, Harpring played college basketball at Georgia Tech, where he was a four-year starter. He was named First Team All-ACC three times (the only other Yellow Jacket player to accomplish this feat was Mark Price from 1984 to 1986). In his senior season (1997–98), Harpring set career-highs by averaging 21.6 points and 9.4 rebounds per game, ranking second in the ACC in both categories. For his efforts, he was named Third Team All-American.\n\nHe finished his collegiate career as Georgia Tech's second all-time leader in points (2,225) and rebounds (997). He is the institute's all-time leader in free throws attempted (675) and made (508). Prior to his final regular season home game, Georgia Tech retired Harpring's jersey number 15. In 2002, Harpring was selected to the ACC 50th Anniversary men's basketball team as one of the fifty greatest players in Atlantic Coast Conference history.\n\nWhile he excelled on the court, he was equally impressive in the classroom. Harpring earned a bachelor's degree in business management from Georgia Tech, and was named GTE Academic All-District III three times. As a senior, he was an Academic All-American.\n\nThe Orlando Magic selected Harpring with the 15th pick in the first round of the 1998 NBA draft. In his rookie season, he averaged 8.2 points and 4.3 rebounds per game. He started 22 of 50 games, averaging 10.5 points and 5.5 rebounds as a starter. He was named to the 1998–99 NBA All-Rookie First Team.\n\nIn his second year with the Magic, Harpring played in just four games. An injury to his left ankle sidelined him for most of the season. In August 2000, he was traded to the Cleveland Cavaliers for center Andrew DeClercq. He played just one season with the Cavs, averaging 11.1 points and 4.3 rebounds in 56 games. He scored a career-high 28 points against Charlotte on March 16, 2001.\n\nIn August 2001, the Cavs traded Harpring to the Philadelphia 76ers along with Cedric Henderson and Robert Traylor in exchange for Tyrone Hill and Jumaine Jones. Harpring played in 81 games for the Sixers during the 2001–02 season. He set career highs in points, rebounds, assists, steals, and blocks. For the year, he averaged 11.8 points and 7.1 rebounds per game. He scored 20 or more points in five different games.\n\nHarpring signed a free agent contract with the Utah Jazz in August 2002. Known as a smart, hard-working player, he fit well in Utah's offensive system, playing alongside superstars Karl Malone and John Stockton. Harpring played the best basketball of his career, averaging 17.6 points per game while shooting 51.1 percent from the floor and 41.3 percent on three-pointers. He set a new career high with 30 points against the Los Angeles Clippers on November 26, 2002. Three nights later, he set another career high with 33 points against the Minnesota Timberwolves (on November 29, 2002). He finished second in voting for the NBA's Most Improved Player in 2002–03 (behind Golden State's Gilbert Arenas).\n\nPrior to the 2003–04 season, Stockton announced his retirement and Malone left Utah to play for the Los Angeles Lakers. Harpring was named team captain by coach Jerry Sloan. Harpring provided leadership for the young team, which played surprisingly well despite the departures of Malone and Stockton. Harpring's season ended suddenly with a knee injury that required surgery to repair. In 31 games, he averaged 16.2 points and 8.0 rebounds per game. At the time of his injury, he was Utah's leading scorer. \nHarpring returned from his injury the following season, but saw his role on the team reduced as Andrei Kirilenko emerged as an All-Star at small forward, and the Jazz added power forwards Carlos Boozer and Mehmet Okur to the roster.\n\nIn 2009, after suffering various injuries and a post-surgery infection in his ankle, Harpring announced that he would probably not be able to continue playing in the NBA, though he did not formally retire. He joined the Jazz television broadcast team for a few games to add color commentary.\n\nSince 2010, Harpring has successfully transitioned to his current role as color commentary voice for the games broadcast on AT&T SportsNet Rocky Mountain, adding a dry sense of humor which he admits he suppressed while a player to the widely recognized play-by-play skills of Craig Bolerjack.\n\nOn December 22, 2009, Harpring's contract was included in a trade between the Jazz and the Oklahoma City Thunder, sending Harpring and point guard Eric Maynor to the Thunder in exchange for the rights to 2002 draft pick Peter Fehse. Harpring did not report to Oklahoma City, who waived him on February 22, 2010. He then joined NBA TV as a studio analyst.\n\n\n\nHarpring and his wife Amanda, who is a physician, have five children: the first son Luke Matthew and second daughter Kate Eileen (b. January 2008).\nHarpring mentioned on the Utah Jazz broadcast that he enjoys The Office. (Utah vs. Dallas, October 28, 2018).\n\n"}
{"id": "2312689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312689", "title": "David Hirst (judge)", "text": "David Hirst (judge)\n\nHirst was born in Meltham, the son of Thomas William Hirst, and Margaret Joy, \"née\" Cozens-Hardy. His father was a cotton mill owner. His mother was a member of the Cozens-Hardy from Norfolk; his maternal grandfather founded a firm of solicitors in Norwich, while his great-uncle was the politician and judge Herbert Cozens-Hardy, 1st Baron Cozens-Hardy, who served as Master of the Rolls from 1907 to 1918.\n\nHe was educated at Packwood Haugh School and Eton College, where he was a King's Scholar. He was called up for war service in 1943 and joined the Royal Artillery, but because of training accident he never saw action. he was commissioned into the Intelligence Corps in 1945, and was posted to Singapore and then Burma before being demobilised in 1947 with the rank of captain. He then read history and law at Trinity College, Cambridge, before being called to the bar by Inner Temple in 1951.\n\nHirst did his pupillage in the chambers of Eric Sachs QC at 4 Paper Building, before beginning a general common law practice on the South-Eastern circuit. In 1953, he was second junior to Neville Faulks QC, who was prosecuting the \"pottery conspiracy\" case at the Old Bailey, the longest trial in the court's history until then. Faulks was impressed by his performance, and invited him to join his chambers at 1 Brick Court, a fashionable set specialising in defamation; Hirst became head of chambers in 1965. Other tenants of his chambers included Colin Duncan, Brian Neill, and Leon Brittan, his only pupil.\n\nIn the 1960s, Hirst appeared in many high-profile libel trials. In 1961, he apologised to suspected serial killer Dr John Bodkin Adams on behalf of the \"Daily Mail\", which had published a report stating he had been identified as the poisoner of many of his patients. In 1964, led by Lord Gardiner QC, he acted for the author Leon Uris in \"Dering v Uris\". Dr Wladislaw Dering, a Polish-born GP, sued Uris because a footnote in his novel \"Exodus\", in which he alleged Dering had performed thousands of human experiments on prisoners at Auschwitz. Dering admitted to have carried out some of the operations, but pleaded that he had acted under duress. The jury found for the plaintiff, but awarded him one halfpenny (the smallest coin in circulation) in damages. Hirst had advised the defendants to pay £2 into court; since Dering had received less in damages, he became liable for the defendants' legal costs.\n\nHirst became a Queen's Counsel in 1965. The following year, he won £5,000 in damages for Lord Russell of Liverpool against \"Private Eye\", which called him \"Lord Liver of Cesspool\" and suggested he wrote a book about German war crimes to stimulate prurient interests. In 1967, he won an apology and \"substantial damages\" for the writer R.J. Minney against the historian M. R. D. Foot. Minney had written a biography of World War II heroine Violette Szabo, which detailed torture at the hands of the Gestapo, which Foot alleged were the products of author's \"prurient imagination\".\n\nHis most famous case as a QC was in 1970, when he represented retired Royal Navy captain Jack Broome against the controversial writer David Irving and Cassel Ltd in \"Broome v Cassell\". Cassell had published a book by Irving blaming Broome for the destruction of World War II Arctic convoy PQ 17. The jury awarded Broome £40,000 in damages, the largest libel award made in England until Jeffrey Archer's libel suit against the \"Daily Star\" in 1987. The defendants appealed, but the House of Lords upheld the damages.\n\nIn the 1970s Hirst shifted to commercial work. He represented Paul McCartney in his 1971 lawsuit to dissolve the Beatles' legal partnership. He subsequently acted for all the Beatles in their lawsuit against their manager Allen Klein. He also acted for the Bee Gees.\n\nIn 1974, he was elected a bencher of the Inner Temple, and served as reader in 1994 and treasurer in 1995. He served as chairman of the Bar Council between 1978–79. He was a strong defender of barristers' exclusive right of audience in front of the higher courts.\n\nHirst refused a High Court judgeship after his term as chairman of the Bar Council, before changing his mind. He was appointed a Justice of the High Court in 1982, and received the customary knighthood the same year. He was assigned to the Queen's Bench Division and later sat in the Commercial Court.\n\nIn 1992, he was appointed a Lord Justice of Appeal and sworn of the Privy Council. In 1995, he was one of the judges who heard Emma Humphreys' appeal against her conviction for murder, substituting a verdict of manslaughter. He retired in 1999 and was succeeded by Mr Justice Mance. From 2000 to 2010 he chaired the Spoliation Advisory Panel, which advises the British government on claims for cultural property looted during the Nazi era.\n\nHirst died 31 December 2011 in London, after a long illness.\n\nHirst met his wife, Pamela Elizabeth Molesworth Bevan, of Longstowe Hall, while at Cambridge. They married in 1951 and had three sons and two daughters. His son Jonathan Hirst QC (1953–2017) was, like father, chairman of the Bar Council.\n"}
{"id": "2312690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312690", "title": "Jan Chappell", "text": "Jan Chappell\n\nJanet Victoria Chappell born in Brixton, London in 1945 is an English actress, known for her portrayal of Cally in the first three series of \"Blake's 7\". She trained at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art (1963–65) where she received an honours diploma and the Kendal and Jenny Laird Prize. Her television appearances include \"The Naked Civil Servant\", \"Reilly, Ace of Spies\", \"Mr. Palfrey of Westminster\", \"Inspector Alleyn Mysteries\", \"The House of Eliott\", \"Boon\", \"Lovejoy\", \"Pie in the Sky\", \"Holby City\", \"New Tricks\", \"Spooks\" and \"Rosemary & Thyme\".\n\nChappell appeared in Ken Russell's \"The Devils\", \"The Virgin and the Gipsy\", \"Low Tide\", and \"Basic Instinct 2\". Writing about the last role, Ben Rawson-Jones reported that \"\"Blake's 7\" fans were...pleased to see their beloved Cally pop up in the film as a random solicitor...Chappell's most notable post-Cally role in science fiction was in the direct-to-video \"Doctor Who\" spinoff \"\" in 1995. Parts in \"The Bill\", \"Boon\", \"Spooks\" and \"New Tricks\" have ensured a regular stream of work, in addition to plenty of stage performances.\"\nHer theatre work has included work in Nottingham for Roland Joffe, Leicester and Stoke-on-Trent with Peter Cheeseman, three seasons with the Royal Shakespeare Company, including a notable production of \"Richard II\", starring Ian Richardson, directed by John Barton. She performed in the plays of Peter Handke, Snoo Wilson, Arnold Wesker, Caryl Churchill, Howard Barker and in Mike Bartlett's \"My Child\", directed by Sacha Wares at the Royal Court Theatre, London.\n\nChappell appeared in three of the Tribunal plays for Nicolas Kent, including \"The Colour of Justice\" (about the Stephen Lawrence Inquiry) at the Tricycle Theatre in Kilburn, London. She played Presiley Baxendale (lawyer for the Scott Inquiry into \"Arms for Iraq\") in \"Half the Picture\". She played the human rights lawyer, Gareth Peirce, in \"Guantanamo\", which subsequently transferred to London's West End and was also performed in the Raeburn Building (US Congress) in Washington.\n\nFrom 1999 to 2000, Jan Chappell also appeared in three episodes of MJTV's original audio sci-fi CD series \"Soldiers of Love\" as Sharliken and Mom.\n\nIn April 2010, she appeared at the Royal Exchange Theatre, Manchester in \"A Comedy of Errors\" directed by Paines Plough and Royal Shakespeare associate director Roxana Silbert.\n"}
{"id": "2312692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312692", "title": "Experimental data", "text": "Experimental data\n\nExperimental data in science and engineering is data produced by a measurement, test method, experimental design or quasi-experimental design. In clinical research any data produced are the result of a clinical trial. Experimental data may be qualitative or quantitative, each being appropriate for different investigations.\n\nGenerally speaking, qualitative data are considered more descriptive and can be subjective in comparison to having a continuous measurement scale that produces numbers. Whereas quantitative data are gathered in a manner that is normally experimentally repeatable, qualitative information is usually more closely related to phenomenal meaning and is, therefore, subject to interpretation by individual observers.\n\nExperimental data can be reproduced by a variety of different investigators and mathematical analysis may be performed on these data.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312693", "title": "UTC−08:00", "text": "UTC−08:00\n\nUTC−08:00 is an identifier for a time offset from UTC of −08:00. This time is used in:\n\n\"Principal cities: Los Angeles, Vancouver, Tijuana\"\n\n\n\"Principal cities: Anchorage\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312705", "title": "Kris Humphries", "text": "Kris Humphries\n\nKristopher Nathan Humphries (born February 6, 1985) is an American former professional basketball player who played in the National Basketball Association (NBA). He played in the NBA for the Utah Jazz, Toronto Raptors, Dallas Mavericks, New Jersey / Brooklyn Nets, Boston Celtics, Washington Wizards, Phoenix Suns, and the Atlanta Hawks. Humphries played college basketball for the Minnesota Golden Gophers of the University of Minnesota, and for the United States men's national basketball team.\n\nHumphries was born in Minnesota to Debra and William Humphries. His father was a football player at the University of Minnesota. Humphries is half African-American from his father. He has two older sisters, Krystal and Kaela. His first success in sports came in competitive swimming, where he was the top 10-year-old in the nation in six events, first, beating young Michael Phelps in the remaining events. Kris Humphries held the US national record for the 50-meter freestyle for 10 and under boys for 18 years until it was recently broken. At age 12 he gave up swimming to pursue a career in basketball.\n\nHumphries attended Hopkins High School, where he led the team to a 25–2 record in 2002 and its first Minnesota state championship in 49 years. He was named a 2003 McDonald's All-American and named Second Team All-USA by USA Today. He was also named to the Super 25 Basketball Team by USA Today, named Minnesota Mr. Basketball, and state player of the year by the Minneapolis Star Tribune and College Basketball News. He was one of 10 finalists for the 2003 Naismith Prep Player of the Year Award, averaging a double-double in his final three seasons, averaging 25.7 points, 11.4 rebounds and 5.0 assists a game as a senior.\n\nConsidered a five-star recruit by Rivals.com, Humphries was listed as the No. 2 power forward and the No. 15 player in the nation in 2003.\n\nHumphries accepted a scholarship offer to Duke University, but later reconsidered and chose the University of Minnesota.\n\nAt Minnesota, Humphries was named 2004 Big Ten Freshman of the Year and named to the All-Big Ten First Team by the media and coaches. He was named Honorable Mention All-America by the Associated Press and by Rivals.com. He was the first freshman to lead the Big Ten in scoring and rebounding in the same season. He scored in double figures in all 29 games, with 16 point/rebound double-doubles on the season for Minnesota. He averaged 21.7 points and 10.1 rebounds (both tops in the Big Ten), while shooting .444 percent from the field and .742 from the line. On February 18, 2004 he set a school record with 36 points in a game against Indiana. He also set a school record for most points by a freshman for a season with 629 and was the first Big Ten freshman to be named conference Player of the Week in two of the first three weeks of the season. Humphries only played one season for Minnesota before declaring for the NBA Draft.\n\nAlthough Humphries was personally successful at Minnesota, the team struggled. The Gophers finished 12–18, with a 3–13 record in the Big Ten during Humphries' lone season, tying Penn State for the worst record in the conference. Critics accused Humphries of playing selfishly, preferring to inflate his statistics and NBA draft stock rather than help the team win games. The team had a .500 record before his arrival and finished with a 10–6 conference record in the season after he left.\n\nHumphries was drafted by the Utah Jazz with the 14th overall selection in the 2004 NBA draft. He spent two seasons with the Jazz, averaging 3.7 ppg and 2.8 rpg in 4.8 minutes per game.\n\nOn June 8, 2006, Humphries was traded along with Robert Whaley to the Toronto Raptors in exchange for Rafael Araújo. In the 2006–07 season, after a slow start in which he did not receive many minutes from Raptors coach Sam Mitchell, Humphries proved to be a valuable rebounder and energy player and contributed to the Raptors capturing their first ever division title. On March 28, 2007, he grabbed seven offensive rebounds in 27 minutes against the Miami Heat, both a game-high and a career-high. He followed up this performance with nine offensive and 18 total rebounds in a win against the Detroit Pistons on April 13, 2007, again both game and career-highs. Humphries concluded his inaugural season with the Raptors with a career-high 3.1 rpg and .470 field goal percentage, as well as 3.8 ppg.\n\nOn July 9, 2009, Humphries, Shawn Marion and Nathan Jawai were traded to the Dallas Mavericks as a part of the four-team deal among Raptors, Mavericks, Orlando Magic and Memphis Grizzlies.\n\nOn January 11, 2010 the Mavericks traded Humphries along with G/F Shawne Williams to the New Jersey Nets in order to re-acquire Eduardo Nájera. On January 27, 2010, Humphries scored a career-high 25 points against the Los Angeles Clippers. He previously recorded career highs of 15 and 21 points respectively as a New Jersey Net. The 2011 season was a breakout season for Humphries as he averaged a double-double in points and rebounds. On December 21, 2011, Humphries signed a one-year, $8 million contract with the New Jersey Nets.\n\nOn July 17, 2012, Humphries signed a two-year, $24 million contract with the Nets, who by that point had moved to Brooklyn.\n\nOn June 27, 2013, ESPN.com reported that the Nets and Boston Celtics had worked out a trade that would send Humphries and four other players (Keith Bogans, MarShon Brooks, Kris Joseph and Gerald Wallace) as well as three future first-round draft picks to Boston in exchange for Kevin Garnett, Paul Pierce, and Jason Terry as well as D. J. White. The deal was finally completed on July 12, 2013.\n\nOn July 19, 2014, Humphries was acquired by the Washington Wizards in a sign-and-trade deal that sent a protected 2015 second round pick and a trade exception to the Boston Celtics. On October 9, 2014, he underwent successful surgery to repair nerve damage in his right small finger, and was subsequently sidelined for three to four weeks.\n\nOn November 14, 2015, Humphries made 5-of-8 three-pointers on his way to a game-high 23 points, helping the Wizards defeat the Orlando Magic 108–99. Prior to the 2015–16 season, Humphries had gone more than a decade since making a three-pointer. He hit two in his 2004–05 rookie season, and none after that, until this game.\n\nOn February 18, 2016, Humphries was traded, along with DeJuan Blair and a 2016 protected first round draft pick, to the Phoenix Suns in exchange for Markieff Morris. He made his debut for the Suns the following day in a 116–100 loss to the Houston Rockets, recording 18 points and 12 rebounds in 27 minutes off the bench, becoming the 13th Suns player to have a double-double in his debut. On February 28, after three starts in four games, he was waived by the Suns in a buyout agreement.\n\nOn March 1, 2016, Humphries signed with the Atlanta Hawks. Three days later, he made his debut for the Hawks in a 106–77 win over the Los Angeles Lakers, recording 14 points, eight rebounds, one steal and one block in 22 minutes off the bench.\n\nOn July 15, 2016, Humphries re-signed with the Hawks.\n\nOn September 25, 2017, Humphries signed with the Philadelphia 76ers but was waived on October 14, 2017, as one of the final roster cuts. Humphries announced his retirement on March 26, 2019.\n\nHumphries was on the 2002 U.S. Junior World Championship Qualifying Tournament Team, alongside future Raptors' teammate Chris Bosh. The team finished with a 4–1 record and the bronze medal and qualified for a berth in the 2003 FIBA Junior World Championship. Humphries averaged 9.0 points and 5.0 rebounds in five games.\n\nHumphries began dating reality TV personality Kim Kardashian in October 2010. They became engaged in May 2011, and married on August 20, 2011. A two-part TV special showing the preparations and the wedding itself aired on E! in early October 2011, amidst what \"The Washington Post\" called a \"media blitz\" related to the wedding. On October 31, 2011, it was announced that Kardashian had filed for divorce from Humphries after 72 days of marriage. On December 1, 2011, Humphries filed his response to Kardashian's petition, requesting an annulment on the grounds of fraud or a decree of legal separation rather than Kardashian requested divorce. Several news outlets have spread rumors that Kardashian's marriage to Humphries was merely a publicity stunt for financial gain orchestrated by E! Entertainment, Kris and Kim Kardashian to promote the Kardashian family's brand and their subsequent television ventures, though there has been no substantial evidence to support their claims. In April 2013, after a lengthy legal battle, Humphries and Kardashian reached a divorce settlement. Their divorce was finalized on June 3, 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312706", "title": "Christoffelberg", "text": "Christoffelberg\n\nThe Christoffelberg, also known as Mt Christoffel or Mt St Christoffel, named after Saint Christopher, is the highest point on Curaçao. The Christoffelberg is high and lies in the reserved wildlife park, Curaçao Christoffelpark, which can be explored by car, bike, horse, or on foot using several trails that have been laid out for this purpose.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312710", "title": "SHeDAISY", "text": "SHeDAISY\n\nSHeDAISY was an American country music group founded in the late 1980s by sisters Kristyn Robyn Osborn (born August 24, 1970), Kelsi Marie Osborn (born November 21, 1974), and Kassidy Lorraine Osborn (born October 30, 1976) from Magna, Utah. The group's name is derived from the word \"shideezhí\", a Navajo term meaning \"my little sister\".\n\nThe trio began their careers as The Osborn Sisters, were signed to the Nashville division of RCA Records, and recorded an album that was never released. By 1999 the sisters renamed the group SHeDAISY and signed to Lyric Street Records. Their first album, \"The Whole SHeBANG\", was issued that year and certified platinum in the United States. A Christmas album entitled \"Brand New Year\" was released in 2000, \"Knock on the Sky\" was issued in 2002, the gold-certified \"Sweet Right Here\" was released in 2004, \"Fortuneteller's Melody\" in 2006, and the compilation \"The Best of SHeDAISY\" in 2008.\n\nSHeDAISY has charted 15 times on the \"Billboard\" Hot Country Songs charts. Their hits include \"Little Good-Byes,\" \"This Woman Needs\", \"I Will… But\", \"Don't Worry 'bout a Thing\", and two Christmas singles.\n\nThe Osborns began singing very young, performing for relatives in their hometown of Magna, Utah. They sold tickets to neighborhood shows, performed at local retirement homes, and sang \"The Star-Spangled Banner\" at Utah Jazz home games. After moving to Nashville, Tennessee, they worked similar shifts at different department stores and shared a car.\n\nKristyn, the group's songwriter, wrote or co-wrote every song on SHeDAISY's studio albums except for \"God Bless The American Housewife.\" Early on, SHeDAISY worked with Jason Deere, an Oklahoma-native Mormon songwriter in Nashville. He produced them while they were signed to Lyric Street.\n\nMiddle sister Kelsi played \"Alice Flinders\" in the 1989 video version of the musical \"Saturday's Warrior\".\n\nKassidy is the lead vocalist, Kelsi sings high harmony, and Kristyn handles low harmony.\n\nThe sisters first performed as The Osborn Sisters. In 1989, they were signed to RCA Records and recorded an album that was never released. Kristyn stated that the record's scrapping was a blessing in disguise: \n\nThey spent over five years working in department stores and playing nightclubs. Kristyn attended classes at a local university to learn about the music business. Later, the sisters began performing under the name SHeDAISY, derived from a Navajo term meaning \"my (little) sister\".\n\nSHeDAISY signed to Lyric Street Records in 1999. Their debut album, \"The Whole SHeBANG\", produced by Dann Huff was released that year. Its first three singles did well: 1999's \"Little Good-Byes\" reached number 3 and \"This Woman Needs\" reached number 9, and \"I Will… But\", released in 2000, reached number 2 on the \"Billboard\" Hot Country Singles & Tracks charts. The album's fourth single, \"Lucky 4 You (Tonight I'm Just Me)\" did not reach the Top Ten, while 2001's \"Still Holding Out for You\" peaked at number 27.\n\"The Whole SHeBANG\" was certified platinum in the United States for sales of one million copies. The album spent 99 weeks on the Billboard Country Albums Chart. The band's debut album was remixed and re-released, entitled \"The Whole SHeBANG: All Mixed Up\", released in late 2001, and debuted at number 30 on the Billboard Country Albums Chart.\n\nSHeDAISY appeared on the Disney Channel television program \"So Weird\" in 1999 and the ABC Network program \"The Drew Carey Show\" in 2001.\n\nA CMT special featuring SHeDAISY performing many of the songs from \"The Whole SHeBANG\" in concert was broadcast on February 9, 2000.\n\nThey released a Christmas album titled \"Brand New Year\" in September 2000. This album's renditions of \"Jingle Bells\" and \"Deck the Halls\" entered the country music charts, with the latter single appearing in the end credits of Disney's 1999 direct-to-video film, \"Mickey's Once Upon a Christmas\". In addition, they hosted a Christmas special titled \"A SHeVERY Merry Christmas\", on The Nashville Network, now known as Spike TV.\n\n\"Knock on the Sky\" was the title of SHeDAISY's second album, issued in 2002. Although the album debuted at number 3 on Billboard's country album chart, its singles did not fare as well as their debut album. Only two singles were issued from the album: \"Get Over Yourself\" and \"Mine All Mine\", which peaked at numbers 27 and 28 on the country singles charts, respectively. The latter song was featured on the soundtrack of the 2002 film Sweet Home Alabama and the video included clips from the movie. The album quickly declined in the sales charts. Despite the low sales numbers, SHeDAISY considered \"Knock on the Sky\" as their best and most artistic album.\n\nOn January 2, 2003, SHeDAISY sang \"The Star-Spangled Banner\" and \"I Will...But\" at the halftime show of the Orange Bowl.\n\nSHeDAISY returned to the country music charts in 2004 with the single \"Passenger Seat\", the precursor to their third studio album \"Sweet Right Here\". \"Passenger Seat\" reached number 12 on the Billboard country charts and the Top 10 on the \"Radio & Records\" country singles charts. \"Sweet Right Here\" was released on June 8, 2004, debuting at number 2 on the Billboard Top Country Albums charts. The album achieved a gold certification from the RIAA for sales of over 500,000 copies.\n\nThe album's second single, \"Come Home Soon\", was released in July 2004. A first-person ballad about a woman wishing for her husband to come back home from fighting war overseas, \"Come Home Soon\" also inspired sales of special \"Come Home Soon\" bracelets, the proceeds of which went to the American Red Cross. \"Don't Worry 'Bout a Thing\", the third single from \"Sweet Right Here\", became SHeDAISY's first Top Ten hit in 5 years, as well as their most recent, peaking at number seven.\n\nCountry music artist LeAnn Rimes recorded a song co-written by Kristyn Osborn, titled \"I Dare You\", for her 2005 album \"This Woman\". SHeDAISY included their version of the song on \"Sweet Right Here\".\n\n\"Fortuneteller's Melody\" was SHeDAISY's fourth studio album, and sixth in total. Kristyn co-wrote songs with Sheryl Crow and the album's producer John Shanks. Released in 2006, it produced two minor hit singles on the country music charts: \"I'm Taking the Wheel\" and \"In Terms of Love\"; the latter was co-written by Don Schlitz. After a debut at number 6 on the Billboard Country Albums Chart, the album left the charts by the end of 2006.\n\nSHeDAISY contributed the song \"God Bless the American Housewife\" to a special compilation entitled \"Music from and Inspired by Desperate Housewives\". The song was never released as a single in the U.S., but was a Top 20 hit in Canada with the alternate title, \"God Bless The Canadian Housewife\". A music video was made for it. The song was included on \"Fortuneteller's Melody\".\n\nIn 2007, Canadian singer/songwriter Jann Arden co-wrote and recorded a song with Kristyn entitled 'Counterfeit Heart' for her album, \"Uncover Me\". Kristyn also lends background vocals to two tracks on \"Uncover Me\".\n\nAlso in 2007, the trio recorded a cover version of Bonnie Raitt's \"Something to Talk About\" for the soundtrack of the film \"The Guardian\". Country music singer Carmen Rasmusen recorded a song written by Kristyn entitled 'Stranded' for her debut album, \"Nothin' Like the Summer\".\n\nSHeDAISY released their first greatest hits compilation, \"The Best of SHeDAISY\", on February 5, 2008, which included the greatest hits from their first four studio albums, excluding the Christmas album.\n\nIn mid-2008, SHeDAISY and their song \"23 Days\", were featured in a television advertising campaign for the Sleep Number bed created by Select Comfort. The commercial was first broadcast on the night of March 20, 2008. In July 2008, SHeDAISY was featured on the Walt Disney Records compilation, \"Country Sings Disney\" singing \"Baby Mine\", a cover version of the song first featured in the Walt Disney movie \"Dumbo\".\n\nSHeDAISY recorded a fifth studio album, \"A Story to Tell\", which was produced by Jann Arden. Previews of two new songs, \"A 2 Me\" and \"Mr. McLennen\", are available on their official website. The title of the album is derived from lyrics in \"Mr. McLennen\". On March 9, 2010, it was announced that SHeDAISY had left Lyric Street Records, leaving \"A Story to Tell\" unreleased.\n\nIn 2011, the group released a cover of \"With a Little Luck\" as part of the Linda McCartney tribute album \"Let Us in Nashville: A Tribute to Linda McCartney\".\n\nThey have another sister, Karli, and two brothers, Clayton and Cade. Karli took Kelsi's place for the Fortuneteller's Melody summer tour while she was pregnant with her twin girls, Savannah Marie and Adyson Amilia, whom she and her husband Steve Simpson welcomed in July 2006. Karli also took Kelsi's place in the video for \"In Terms of Love\".\n\nAll three sisters are members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.\n\nKassidy was previously involved in a two-year romance with Rascal Flatts guitarist and labelmate Joe Don Rooney. The couple parted in 2003 and she married Derek Williamson on May 28, 2009.\n\nKristyn was married to Joel Stevenett for four years until their divorce in 2002. Some of the songs from \"Knock on the Sky\" are about her divorce. Kristyn had a relationship with actor Aaron Eckhart during 2006 and 2007 and he appears in the SHeDAISY video for 'I'm Taking The Wheel'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312713", "title": "Lybid", "text": "Lybid\n\nThe Lybid () is a small river in Kiev, Ukraine. A right tributary of the Dnieper, it flows within the \"Right Bank\" (original) part of the city, just to the west of the historic center. The Lybid has played an important role in shaping Kiev's urban design by aiding the city's drainage system.\n\nThe Lybid runs east, then southeast, then roughly parallel to the Dnieper before it takes a sharp eastward turn and enters the Dnieper several kilometers south of Kiev's center. The river travels through a culvert for much of its course. It can be seen along the railway lines south-east from the main station of Kiev. \n\nThe Lybid has small tributaries, most notably the Khreschatyk River. It runs parallel to modern Kiev's main street, Khreschatyk. Another notable tributary, with small lakes on its course, joins just as the Lybid turns to the east in the Montajnik area south of central Kiev.\n\nThe river was named after the possibly mythical \"Lybid,\" sister of the legendary founders of Kiev, Kyi, Schek, and Khoryv. Others state that Lybid was a former ruler of the Kyiv prior to times of Kievan Rus'.\n\nReferences to the Lybid River were first made in records in 968 A.D. The Lybid was then a relatively big river, as deep as 20 meters in some places. It formed the southern boundary of the city. \n\nIn the 19th century, the river was widely used for milling. In some places, it reached up to 50 meters across. Three watermills were situated on one of these wide sections where the river formed a reservoir with small islands on it. The biggest watermill was Mikhaylivska. Seven watermills lined the river. Due to the milling business, the surrounding area began to develop, with inns and small villages. Late in the 19th century, construction of the railway began.\n\nLybid is no more than half a meter deep and does not exceed four meters in width. Its course now is mostly subterranean, flowing through concrete pipes, growing polluted as it flows past the town's industrial areas.\n"}
{"id": "2312742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312742", "title": "Gordan Giriček", "text": "Gordan Giriček\n\nGordan Giriček (born June 20, 1977) is a retired Croatian professional basketball player. Standing at , he played the shooting guard and small forward positions. Over eighteen years of professional basketball, he played in the NBA for several teams, including Memphis Grizzlies, Orlando Magic, Utah Jazz, Philadelphia 76ers, and the Phoenix Suns. He also played for several European teams, including Cibona, CSKA Moscow and Fenerbahçe.\n\nGiriček, the shooting guard–small forward started playing basketball with the youth section of a small local club in Zagreb called Jedinstvo.\n\nLater on, he joined the Zagreb-based club Cibona, and while playing there he was selected by the Dallas Mavericks in the second round (40th pick overall) in the 1999 NBA draft and traded by the Mavericks to the San Antonio Spurs for Leon Smith. However, he never played for the Spurs, who traded his draft rights to the Memphis Grizzlies for a second-round pick in the 2004 NBA draft. He stayed in his native country Croatia until 2001.\n\nIn the summer of 2001, he signed a contract with the Russian team CSKA Moscow, playing the 2001–2002 season there. He had a breakthrough season, averaging 22.9 points, 3.1 rebounds and 1.6 assists over 18 games of the Euroleague.\n\nHe came to the United States in 2002. In his NBA debut game with the Memphis Grizzlies, he scored 29 points. He played a total of 49 regular season games for the Memphis Grizzlies, averaging 11.2 points per game.\n\nOn February 19, 2003, day before trade deadline, he was traded by Memphis, with Drew Gooden, to the Orlando Magic for Mike Miller, Ryan Humphrey, a future first-round draft pick and a future second-round draft pick. He ended that season on the NBA's All-Rookie second team.\n\nOn February 19, 2004, Giricek was traded by the Orlando Magic to the Utah Jazz for DeShawn Stevenson and a future second-round draft pick. He scored a career-high 33 points against the Phoenix Suns on March 12, 2004.\n\nWith Utah, his main role was that of a shooting threat off the bench; he was also a part-time starter. While a competent defender, his best asset was his efficient three-point shooting. During the 2007 playoffs, he shot 53.8% from the three point line en route to an appearance in the Western Conference Finals. After their loss to the Spurs in five games, Deron Williams ripped the efforts of Giriček and Mehmet Okur.\n\nRonnie Brewer was named Utah's starting shooting guard after a strong performance in the 2007–08 preseason, relegating Giriček back to the bench. On December 19, Giriček was sent home from a game in Charlotte after a heated argument with coach Jerry Sloan. Though Giriček and Sloan indicated they moved on from the incident, Utah was reportedly intent on trading him, and the game in Charlotte would indeed be his last with the Jazz.\n\nGiriček was traded from the Jazz to the Philadelphia 76ers on December 26, 2007, in exchange for Kyle Korver and a future first-round draft pick from the Jazz. He played as a Sixer against the Jazz five days later, and was booed in his return to Utah.\n\nOn February 29, 2008, he was waived by the 76ers, after appearing in 12 games with the team. He was waived in time to allow him to join a playoff team and qualify for their postseason roster.\n\nOn March 4, 2008, the Phoenix Suns signed Giriček for the remainder of the season. He was involved in an altercation with Suns teammate Shaquille O'Neal, and was choked out.\n\nIn August 2008, 31-year-old Giriček left the NBA and returned to Europe. He signed a 2-year €4 million euros net income contract with the Turkish team Fenerbahçe. He was released on May 15, 2010.\n\nIn December 2010, he signed a contract with Cibona Zagreb in his native country of Croatia until the end of the 2010–11 season. After this season, he retired from professional basketball.\n\nGiriček was a member of the Croatian national basketball team. With Croatia, he played at 5 consecutive European Championships: the 1997 European Championship, 1999 European Championship, 2001 European Championship, 2003 European Championship, and the 2005 European Championship.\n\nIn December 2003 Giriček married his long-time girlfriend Nataša Gulan, in Orlando, Florida. In February 2004 Nataša gave birth to their first and only child, a girl they named Lara.\n\nIn July 2004 Giriček signed a contract with the Jazz worth $16 million through 4 years. At that time, Giriček asked his wife to sign a postnuptial agreement. His lawyers drew up the agreement so that in case of a divorce, his wife would get the total salaries that she would have earned had she stayed at VIPnet, the mobile telephony company that she worked for before meeting Giriček. Gulan refused to sign the agreement and, in August 2004, Giriček decided to file for divorce after his wife had left him and moved to her mother's house with their child, with Gulan demanding $1.5 million.\n\nIn February 2007, a court in Croatia decided that Giriček's wife was to get $102,500. Giriček pays $1,500 per month in child support. During court trial his wife's lawyer wrote to Giriček's present and past clubs, requesting information about the player's earnings but, as such information was not demanded by Croatian courts, it was never disclosed by any of the teams. In July 2007, he decided not to join the Croatian national team for the 2007 European Championship because of dissidence with his ex-wife, as Gulan did not honor a child visiting agreement ordered by court, by which the player was to be with Lara during July, thus arriving on time for national team pre-tournament camp. Gulan argued that she got her holiday at that time and that it was unchangeable, also wanting to spend time with her daughter.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312751", "title": "Negative return", "text": "Negative return\n\nNegative return may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2312756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312756", "title": "The Army of Darkness", "text": "The Army of Darkness\n\n"}
{"id": "2312758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312758", "title": "An Chang-ryon", "text": "An Chang-ryon\n\nAn Chang-ryon is a North Korean politician. He served as a delegate to the Supreme People's Assembly during its 9th (1990), 10th (1998), and 11th (2003) sessions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312759", "title": "Chickamauga and Chattanooga National Military Park", "text": "Chickamauga and Chattanooga National Military Park\n\nChickamauga and Chattanooga National Military Park, located in northern Georgia and southeastern Tennessee, preserves the sites of two major battles of the American Civil War: the Battle of Chickamauga and the Siege of Chattanooga. A detailed history of the park's development was provided by the National Park Service in 1998.\n\nStarting in 1890, during the decade, the Congress of the United States authorized the establishment of the first four national military parks: Chickamauga and Chattanooga, Shiloh, Gettysburg and Vicksburg.\n\nThe first and largest of these () and the one upon which the establishment and development of most other national military and historical parks was based, was authorized in 1890 at Chickamauga, Georgia and Chattanooga, Tennessee. It was officially dedicated in September 1895. It owes its existence chiefly to the efforts of Generals Henry V. Boynton and Ferdinand Van Derveer both veterans of the Union Army of the Cumberland, who saw the need for a federal park to preserve and commemorate these battlefields. Another early proponent and driving force behind the park's creation was Ohio General Henry M. Cist, who led the Chickamauga Memorial Society in 1888. Another former Union officer, Charles H. Grosvenor, was chairman of the park commission from 1910 until his death in 1917. During the Park's early years, it was managed by the War Department and used for military study as well as a memorial. The National Park Service took over site management in 1933.\n\nThe newly created Chickamauga and Chattanooga National Military Park was utilized during the Spanish–American War as a major training center for troops in the southern states. The park was temporarily renamed \"Camp George H. Thomas\" in honor of the union army commander during the Civil War battle at the site. The park's proximity to the major rail hub at Chattanooga and its large tracts of land made it a logical marshalling area for troops being readied for service in Cuba and other points south.\n\nThe military park consists of four main areas, and a few small isolated reservations, around Chattanooga.\n\n\nAs with all historic areas administered by the National Park Service, the military park was listed on the National Register of Historic Places on October 15, 1966.\n\nOn February 20, 2003, Public Law No: 108-7 added Moccasin Bend as a new unit of the park. \"Moccasin Bend Archaeological District\", designated a National Historic Landmark on September 8, 1986, is directly across the Tennessee River from Lookout Mountain. It is significant due to its archaeological resources of American Indian settlement. There are currently minimal visitor services at Moccasin Bend, including two hiking trails (the Blue Blazes Trail and the Browns Ferry Road) and a ten-acre meadow. Each of these areas is open to the public. The park anticipates further development, land restoration, and visitor services in the years to come.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312780", "title": "Keith McLeod", "text": "Keith McLeod\n\nKeith McLeod (born November 5, 1979) is an American former professional basketball player and current varsity boys basketball head coach at East Canton High School in Canton, Ohio. He is tall. He has also played in the NBA for the Minnesota Timberwolves, Utah Jazz, Golden State Warriors and Indiana Pacers, in the CBA for the Yakima Sun Kings, in the USBL for the Saint Joseph Express, in the NBA D-League with the Albuquerque Thunderbirds, Canton Charge, and Erie BayHawks, and in the Italian top league for Mabo Prefabbricati Livorno, Lottomatica Virtus Roma and Montepaschi Siena.\n\nIn 2001, he was named in the All-MAC second-team. McLeod was the 2002 MAC men's basketball player of the year, leading the Bowling Green to the MAC championship game and a berth in the NIT. At the time of his graduation he was the school's second all-time leading scorer with 1,895 points.\n\nHe was not taken in the 2002 NBA Draft, but was selected in the 2002 USBL Draft by the Saint Joseph Express, and in the 2002 CBA Draft by the Yakima Sun Kings.\n\nHe was traded on July 13, 2006 to the Golden State Warriors along with Devin Brown and Andre Owens for Derek Fisher.\n\nOn January 17, 2007, McLeod was dealt to the Indiana Pacers along with teammates Mike Dunleavy, Ike Diogu and Troy Murphy for Stephen Jackson, Al Harrington, Sarunas Jasikevicius and Josh Powell.\n\nOn July 11, 2008, McLeod signed a one-year deal with the Dallas Mavericks. He was waived by the Mavericks on October 23, 2008, and later played for the Albuquerque Thunderbirds of the NBA D-League. On September 1, 2010, McLeod signed a 1-year deal with the Greek club Panionios B.C..\n\nMcLeod signed with the Canton Charge of the NBA D-League in 2011. He was later traded to the Erie BayHawks.\n\nIn October 2012, McLeod joined BC Kalev/Cramo of Estonia and poured in 25 points in his first game in the VTB League for the club, including a game winning basket at the buzzer.\nOn June 13, 2016, McLeod agreed to become an assistant to head coach Matt Hackenberg on the Canton Glenoak High School boys varsity basketball team. His primary focus will be on player development with the Golden Eagles.\n\nMcLeod attended Canton McKinley High School and graduated with a BS in Computer Science from Bowling Green State University.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312783", "title": "Howard Mackie", "text": "Howard Mackie\n\nHoward Mackie (born January 22, 1958) is an American comic book editor and writer. He has worked almost exclusively for Marvel Comics and is best known as the co-creator of the Danny Ketch version of the Ghost Rider character.\n\nMackie grew up in Cypress Hills, Brooklyn, mostly raised by his mother, as his father having died when he was seven.\n\nMackie started his career in comics in 1984 as an assistant editor for Mark Gruenwald. Early in Mackie's career, a running gag in Gruenwald's columns was that Mackie was a mysterious figure whose face no one at Marvel had ever seen. Promoted in early 1987 to Managing Editor of Special Projects, Mackie then oversaw Marvel's \"New Universe\" line.\n\nMackie first gained attention as a writer in 1990, when he and artist Javier Saltares launched a new \"Ghost Rider\" series for Marvel, revamping the character and introducing a new host, Danny Ketch. Mackie wrote \"Ghost Rider\" until issue #69 (Jan. 1996). He authored two Ghost Rider/Wolverine/Punisher team-up one-shots, \"Hearts of Darkness\" (1991) and its sequel \"The Dark Design\" (1994).\n\nIn 1992, Mackie became the regular writer of \"Web of Spider-Man\" with #85. He would remain on various Spider-Man titles through the Clone Saga. In January 1999, Mackie became the writer of both \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" and the \"\" series when those two titles were relaunched with new first issues. Mackie left the Spider-Man franchise with \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" vol. 2, #29 (May 2001).\n\nMackie's work on the X-Men line included writing the spin-off title \"X-Factor\" from #115–149 (1995–1998) as well as its successor title \"Mutant X\" (1998–2001). He wrote several mini-series featuring Gambit, Wolverine, and Rogue.\n\nIn late 2009, Mackie teamed with Tom DeFalco to write the six issue miniseries \"Spider-Man: Clone Saga\", whose story was based on Mackie's original notes for the 1990s crossover. It was later collected in the trade paperback \"Spider-Man: The Real Clone Saga\".\n\nMackie wrote \"The Ravagers\" series for DC Comics in 2012 as part of the \"Second Wave\" of The New 52.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312789", "title": "UTC−04:00", "text": "UTC−04:00\n\nUTC−04:00 is an identifier for a time offset from UTC of −04:00.\nIt is observed in the Eastern Time Zone (e.g., Canada and the United States) during the warm months of daylight saving time, as Eastern Daylight Time. The Atlantic Time Zone observes it during standard time (cold months).\nIt is observed all year in the Eastern Caribbean.\n\n\"Principal cities: Halifax\"\n\n\"Principal cities: New York, Toronto, Havana\n\n\n\"Principal cities: Caracas, Manaus, Santo Domingo, La Paz\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Principal cities: Santiago, Asunción\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312790", "title": "John Tsang", "text": "John Tsang\n\nJohn Tsang Chun-wah, GBM, JP (; born 21 April 1951) is a Hong Kong former senior civil servant and government official who was the longest-serving Financial Secretary in the Special Administrative Region period to date.\n\nBorn in Hong Kong and raised and educated in the United States, Tsang worked in the Hong Kong government for more than thirty years. He was the private secretary to the last colonial governor Chris Patten and was promoted to Secretary for Commerce, Industry and Technology in 2003. He worked as director of the Office of the Chief Executive under Donald Tsang administration from 2006 to 2007.\n\nIn July 2007, he was appointed Financial Secretary by Donald Tsang. He proposed the Scheme $6,000 tax rebate to all Hong Kong residents in his 2011 Budget. He continued to serve in the Leung Chun-ying administration until January 2017, when he resigned to run in the 2017 Chief Executive election. Despite his lead in the opinion poll by large margin throughout the campaign, he lost the bid to Carrie Lam.\n\nTsang is currently engaged in a number of diverse activities. He is the Founder of Esperanza, a non-profit organisation, the Vice Chairman of Ion Pacific, a financial institution that specialises in technology investments, the Senior Advisor of Bowtie, a virtual insurance company, the host of a weekly music programme on Commercial Radio and the fencing coach of La Salle College.\n\nTsang was born on 21 April 1951 at Maternity home in Dukes Street, Kowloon Tong in Hong Kong , his great grandfather was from Taishan, Guangdong, who made his fortune as a labourer in San Francisco. His grandfather was a well-off Chinese physician-turned-businessman. His father, Tsang Chuek-ho, was the eldest child of eight siblings. Graduated from normal schools, Tsang Chuek-ho and his wife Li Pik-sheung planned to move to the United States, where his sister was living, through Hong Kong in the 1940s.\n\nWhile waiting for the immigration process, the family settled in Hong Kong and had four children. Tsang Cheuk-ho and his children adapted the surname Mui when he was adopted by a relative in Hong Kong; they reverted to their original surname after emigrating to the United States. John Tsang, the eldest child, was born as Mui Chun-wah in Hong Kong on 21 April 1951 and lived in Sai Yeung Choi Street in his childhood.\n\nTsang was a primary and secondary school student at La Salle Primary School and La Salle College in Hong Kong. When he was 13 in 1965, Tsang and his family moved to the United States. He first resided on the 8th Street in Lower East Side, Manhattan, New York City. He enrolled in Stuyvesant High School the following year, from which he graduated in 1969. Eric Holder, the first African-American Attorney General of the United States, was his classmate. During the early 1970s in the United States, he was involved in the defend the Diaoyu Islands movement.\n\nHe then studied architecture at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He also holds a master's degree in bilingual education from Boston State College and a MPA from the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University.\n\nThrough his teens and twenties, Tsang lived in the United States and worked as an architect. In November 1982 he returned to Hong Kong after working with the Boston Public Schools Board as a special advisor, at the midst of the Sino-British negotiation over Hong Kong sovereignty, and joined the civil service under the encouragement of Donald Tsang, with whom he became friends when they were at Harvard together. He started his civil service as an Administrative Officer, in which his first position was a two-year stint as Assistant District Officer for Shatin, serving under Donald Tsang, the District Officer. He went on to serve in the former Finance Branch, Monetary Affairs Branch and the former Trade Department. From 1987 to 1992, he was first Administrative Assistant to then Financial Secretary, Sir Piers Jacobs.\n\nHe was Assistant Director-General of Trade from 1992 to 1995 and Private Secretary to the Governor, Chris Patten, from March 1995 to June 1997. In July 1997, Tsang was appointed Director-General of the Hong Kong Economic and Trade Office in London. In 1999 he returned from London and assumed the office of Commissioner of Customs and Excise, appointed by then Chief Executive Tung Chee-hwa. Tsang was Secretary for Planning and Lands from 2001 to 2002. After the Principal Officials Accountability System was introduced in July 2002, his title was changed to the Permanent Secretary for Housing, Planning and Lands (Planning and Lands), Permanent Secretary having become the highest ranking in the Hong Kong Civil Service.\n\nFrom August 2003 Tsang was Secretary for Commerce, Industry and Technology. In this role he was also Chair of the Sixth Ministerial Conference (MC6) of the World Trade Organization (WTO) held in Hong Kong from 13 to 18 December 2005. For his outstanding performance in the WTO, he even earned praise from Chinese President Hu Jintao.\n\nTsang then became the director of the Office of the Chief Executive, working directly for his friend Donald Tsang. He held the post from 2006 to June 2007.\n\nIn 2007, Tsang was appointed Financial Secretary of Hong Kong when Donald Tsang began his second term. In 2012, he was re-appointed as the territory's financial chief by Leung Chun-ying. Although Hong Kong's economy generally grew at a stable rate under Tsang and the government recorded surpluses every year, Tsang was criticised for his drastic miscalculations of the government's surpluses and his fiscal conservative philosophy.\n\nAfter seven consecutive years of budget surplus, Tsang's 2011 annual budget came under heavy fire from the Legislative Council. His original proposal of putting HK$6,000 directly into workers' Mandatory Provident Fund (MPF) accounts was condemned. About 10,000 protesters demonstrated in Central. The mismanagement of the funds led to a number of controversies. Tsang eventually backed down and carried out the Scheme $6,000 to give a HK$6,000 cash handout to all adult holders of a Hong Kong permanent identity card. In the same budget, Tsang initiated iBond, a Hong Kong dollar retail inflation-indexed bond to further develop the local bonds market, attracting 155,835 applications in 2011, which rose to 525,359 by 2013.\n\nIn January 2011, the government's IT chief information officer Jeremy Godfrey stepped down from his job for \"personal reasons\". On 10 May 2011, in a letter to the Legislative Council, he said the real reasons why he resigned were related to Permanent Secretary for Permanent Secretary for Commerce and Economic Development Elizabeth Tse and John Tsang. It turns out that there had been arguments over the implementation of the Internet Learning Support Program (ILSP). It was revealed that Tse and Tsang had forced the HK$220 million contract to be awarded to a company called Internet Professional Association (iProA). This company was founded by Elizabeth Quat, a member of the pro-Beijing Democratic Alliance for the Betterment and Progress of Hong Kong (DAB). Tsang responded that the accusations were ridiculous and absurd. Godfrey then stated that Quat herself had nothing to do with the ILSP controversy, but said the IT decision was politicised.\n\nIn the 2013 budget, Tsang said he understood the people's concerns because he himself was a member of the middle class. He supported this claim by saying middle class people are those who drink coffee and enjoy French films. He was ridiculed by the public for the remarks, given that he earned a basic monthly salary of HK$302,205 and lived in a luxury government residence.\n\nOn 7 December 2013, Tsang was hit in the head by an egg thrown by a League of Social Democrats (LSD) protester, Derek Chan Tak-cheung, at a government forum. Tsang joked about the incident, saying that a doctor had advised him not to eat too many eggs. \"Luckily I'm not wearing a good suit today. I appear to have foreseen the incident.\"\n\nTo distance himself from Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying, who took a hardline stance against localism in Hong Kong, Tsang expressed his affection for local culture, especially by showing his support for the Hong Kong national football team against China during the World Cup football qualifiers. He also wrote in his blog that localism could become a \"strong and constructive force\" that binds society together. His popularity rating had been over 60 out of 100 in 2015 and 2016, according to tracking polls by the University of Hong Kong public opinion programme, being the most popular principal official in the government.\n\nTsang resigned as Financial Secretary on 12 December following months of speculation that he would run in the 2017 Chief Executive election during which he led opinion polls against incumbent Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying. His resignation was approved by Beijing's central authorities on 16 January 2017, the same day his rival Carrie Lam resigned from her post as Chief Secretary for Administration. The unusual month-long gap between his resignation and Beijing's approval caused critics to speculate that Beijing was reluctant to allow him to join the race.\n\nTsang officially declared his candidacy on 19 January with a slogan of \"Trust, Unity, Hope\", after more than a month-long pending of his resignation by the central government which put his campaign in limbo. There were reports that central government officials had given \"red light\" to John Tsang running in the election and had allegedly asked John Tsang not to run for more than ten times, including rumours of him being offered the deputy governor post at the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank in return for not joining the race. Tsang refuted such claims, only saying that there were \"friends\" who supported him and some who did not. To contrast his archrival former Chief Secretary Carrie Lam who was perceived to follow Leung Chun-ying's hardline and divisive policies, Tsang described himself as a good listener who accepted different views, appealing to \"all 7.35 million Hongkongers so that together we can make Hong Kong a better place.\" Tsang also launched his election Facebook page, which drew more than 100,000 likes in a day.\n\nTsang unveiled his 75-page election platform entitled \"Convergence of Hearts, Proactive Enablement\" on 6 February, with the promise of revisiting the possibility of the Article 23 national security legislation with the possibility of relaunching political reform without mentioning the \"831 framework\". Other policies included introducing a progressive profit tax, developing New Territories North and East Lantau and abolishing all Territory-wide System Assessment (TSA) and Basic Competency Assessment (BCA) tests, among others.\n\nAmid the alleged pressure from the Liaison Office which actively lobbied for Carrie Lam and speculations that he was not Beijing's favoured candidate, Tsang struggled to seek nominations from the pro-Beijing electors and had to heavily rely on the Democrats. He received a few pro-Beijing electors' support, including Liberal Party honorary chairman James Tien who was the most outspoken supporter of Tsang since the early stage of the campaign, as well as the party's honorary chairwoman Selina Chow and leader Felix Chung. He also received a nomination from Thomas Wu, son of real estate tycoon Gordon Wu of the Hopewell Holdings, the only tycoon to nominate Tsang. 123 of his total number of 160 nominations came from pro-democracy camp, of which majority of them were from the professional sector, including the Democratic Party which made it the first time a pro-democratic party to nominate an establishment candidate. On 25 February, he became the first candidate to submit his nominations. He was criticised by pro-Beijing media and politicians for taking pro-democrats' support, Tam Yiu-chung said that Tsang now clearly represented the pan-democrats while \"Ta Kung Pao\" editorials attacked Tsang for \"making deal with the devils\".\n\nTsang performed well in the election debates. In a two-hour televised debate co-organised by seven electronic media outlets on 14 March, Tsang quoted Lam's nickname \"CY 2.0\", which meant the second version of the divisive incumbent Leung Chun-ying, saying that people fear society will suffer \"split 2.0\" if Lam wins. Former candidate Regina Ip and political scientist Ma Ngok said that Tsang won the debate. According to a poll conducted by the University of Hong Kong Public Opinion Programme (HKUPOP) after a forum co-organised by a group of Election Committee members on 19 March 62 per cent out of the 717 respondents said they would vote for Tsang if eligible, against 24 per cent for Lam and seven per cent for Woo.\nAhead of 26 March election, Tsang held a rally on 24 March evening in Edinburgh Place, Central, the final stop on his half-day bus parade on Hong Kong Island. Around 3,500 showed support at the rally, with some 449,000 people watched the rally on his Facebook page and more than 18,700 comments were left on the page. Film director Johnnie To, Tsang's wife Lynn and his former political assistant Julian Law Wing-chung were among the six guests who spoke at the rally. In Tsang's speech, he said: \"We are here to show our love for this city of ours ... I hope the Election Committee members, who have the power to vote, would heed our call and heal the rift, and make Hong Kong the home we imagined it should be.\" He also made a reference to the 2014 Occupy protests, saying: \"Here we stand near Lung Wo Road and Connaught Road, Occupy happened near this place in more than two years ago, but I hope our rally today can give a new meaning to this place. I hope you will remembered that on 24 March 2017, we gathered here for the unity of Hong Kong.\"\n\nOn 26 March, Tsang received 365 votes in the 1,194-member Election Committee, losing to Carrie Lam who received 777 votes. His votes came from 98 percent of the 325-member \"Democrats 300+\" coalition, who voted as masse for the candidate leading in opinion polls, as well as a few pro-Beijing electors. Tsang fought back tears as he implored supporters to carry on the dream for democracy and not to give up on Hong Kong in his concession speech. \"I believe this dream to turn Hong Kong more democratic ... has made every Hongkonger willing to dream on – till our dream comes true one day.\"\n\nIn late October 2017, Tsang again gained media attention when it was reported that a RTHK 10-episode show titled \"Hong Kong Stories\" in which Tsang was a voluntary guest host would be suspended from airing as he had failed to declare this employment after leaving the government. Chief Executive Carrie Lam urged Tsang to \"respect the system\" like other officials to declare his employment accordingly. Tsang revealed that he had been in touch with permanent secretary Jessie Ting Yip Yin-mei at Chief Executive Carrie Lam's office as early as mid-September regarding the television series and provided information as requested.\n\nIn March 2018, John Tsang announced plans to establish a fund to help young entrepreneurs in Hong Kong. He wants to match his experienced and knowledgeable network of contact with aspiring entrepreneurs. He also joined a fintech-focused merchant bank Ion Pacific as its vice-chairman and Benefit Vantage Limited (BVL) as a chairman and investor in June 2018. BVL's main focus is cybersecurity and they are currently taking their authentication solution IPification to the market.\n\nTsang is married to Lynn Tsang (曾黃蓮華; née Wong) who he met as a nurse while doing volunteer work in the United States in 1975. The couple has a son Terence Tiu-lung (雕龍; literally \"carving of dragons\") and a daughter Prudence Man-sum (文心; literally \"literary mind\"); the combination of the siblings' names alludes to \"The Literary Mind and the Carving of Dragons\", a Chinese classic on literary aesthetics. The family remained a low profile despite Tsang's senior political position.\n\nTsang is a practicing Roman Catholic and a martial arts and fencing enthusiast. He learned Hung Kuen with martial arts master Kwong Tit-fu during his life in the United States and got to know Tai Chi master Bow-sim Mark and her son Donnie Yen. He has been voluntarily coaching the fencing team of his alma mater La Salle College since 1985, Sammy Leung was among his students. He also cameoed as a fencing coach in a government's tourism promotion video. He is also nicknamed \"Mr Potato Chips\" and \"Uncle Pringles\" for a moustache similar to one worn by a character on a potato crisp brand's packaging. He has a pet dog Shiba Inu named Oliver, in which he gave to his daughter as a Christmas present in 2008. Oliver is often featured in Tsang's greeting cards.\n\nIn 2009, Tsang suffered a health scare on his return from a G-20 summit in Pittsburgh. On 27 September he was admitted to Queen Mary Hospital with a coronary artery blockage and underwent an angioplasty operation. He recovered and was discharged from hospital on 3 October, assuring the media that the operation would not affect his work.\n"}
{"id": "2312791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312791", "title": "Lipstick on Your Collar (TV series)", "text": "Lipstick on Your Collar (TV series)\n\nLipstick on Your Collar is a 1993 British television serial written by Dennis Potter. It was first broadcast on Channel 4 in February and March 1993. Expanded from Potter's earlier television play \"Lay Down Your Arms\" (1970), it features Ewan McGregor in his first major role.\n\nThe main story is set in a British Military Intelligence Office in Whitehall during 1956, where a small group of foreign affairs analysts find their quiet existence disrupted by the Suez Crisis. Mick Hopper (Ewan McGregor) is completing his national service as an interpreter of Russian documents. Bored with his job, Hopper spends his days creating fantasy daydreams that involve his colleagues breaking into contemporary hit songs. Sylvia Berry (Louise Germaine) is married to the violent Corporal Pete Berry (Douglas Henshall). Sylvia is an object of desire for Mick's fellow clerk Private Francis Francis (Giles Thomas) and a middle-aged theatre organist named Harold Atterbow (Roy Hudd). In contrast to the street-wise Hopper, Francis is a clumsy Welsh intellectual whose academic career has been interrupted by his army call up. The appearance of the bookish niece of a seconded American officer enables the two conscripts to pair off with suitable partners, after initial mismatching.\n\nThe main theme of the series is conflict between the old order, as represented by the middle-aged officers in Whitehall plus Francis' prudish Uncle Fred and Aunt Vickie, and the new 'rock n roll' generation represented by Hopper and Sylvia. Though chronologically the series is set in the late summer and autumn of 1956 culminating in the invasion of Suez, many of the songs used, including the title song, were not released until later in the 1950s.\n\nSome of the side themes include the influence of American rock and roll on British society, the gulf between the senior analysts, who are regular army officers, and the conscripted other ranks, the work of Russian playwright Chekhov, and an appreciation of opulent theatre organs. The unusual context – a military culture transplanted into a civil service style office environment – reflects Potter's own national service during the 1950s.\n\n\n\"Lipstick on Your Collar\" is an expansion of the earlier play \"Lay Down Your Arms\" (1970). Some critics view it as being the final entry in the musical trilogy Potter began with \"Pennies From Heaven\" (1978) and \"The Singing Detective\" (1986). This was the final serial produced during Dennis Potter's lifetime and was nominated in 1994 for two BAFTA-awards, in the categories \"Best Makeup\" and \"Best Music\".\n\nThe series contained among others the following music:\n\n"}
{"id": "2312793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312793", "title": "Thomas Bilney", "text": "Thomas Bilney\n\nThomas Bilney ( 1495 – 19 August 1531) was an English Christian martyr.\n\nThomas Bilney was born around 1495 in Norfolk, most likely in Norwich. Nothing is known of his parents except that they outlived him. He entered Trinity Hall, Cambridge at a young age, around the year 1510. During his life he was nicknamed \"Little Bilney\" because of his short stature.\n\nAt Cambridge, he studied law, graduating LL.B. and taking holy orders in 1519. Finding no satisfaction in the mechanical system of the schoolmen, he turned his attention to the Greek edition of the New Testament published by Erasmus in 1516. \n\nDuring his reading in the Epistles, he was struck by the words of , which in English reads, \"\"This is a faithful saying, and worthy of all acceptation, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners; of whom I am the chief.\"\" \"Immediately\", he records, \"I felt a marvellous comfort and quietness, insomuch that my bruised bones lept for joy, Psal. 51:8. After this, the Scripture began to be more pleasant unto me than the honey or the honeycomb; wherein I learned that all my labours, my fasting and watching, all the redemption of masses and pardons, being done without truth in Christ, who alone saveth his people from their sins; these I say, I learned to be nothing else but even, as St. Augustine saith, a hasty and swift running out of the right way\". \n\nThe Scriptures now became his chief study, and his influence led other young Cambridge men to think along the same lines. Among his friends were Matthew Parker, the future Archbishop of Canterbury, and Hugh Latimer. Latimer, previously a strenuous conservative, was completely won over, and a warm friendship sprang up between him and Bilney. \"By his confession\", said Latimer, \"I learned more than in twenty years before\".\n\nIn 1525 Bilney obtained a licence to preach throughout the diocese of Ely. He denounced saint and relic veneration, together with pilgrimages to Walsingham and Canterbury, and refused to accept the mediation of the saints.\n\nCardinal Wolsey took a different view. In 1526 he appears to have summoned Bilney before him. On his taking an oath that he did not hold and would not disseminate the doctrines of Martin Luther, Bilney was dismissed. But in the following year serious objection was taken to a series of sermons preached by him in and near London, and he was dragged from the pulpit while preaching in St George's chapel, Ipswich, arrested and imprisoned in the Tower. Arraigned before Wolsey, William Warham, Archbishop of Canterbury, and several bishops in the chapter-house at Westminster Abbey, he was convicted of heresy, sentence being deferred while efforts were made to induce him to recant, which eventually he did.\n\nAfter being kept for more than a year in the Tower, he was released in 1529, and went back to Cambridge. Here he was overcome with remorse for his apostasy, and after two years he was determined to preach again what he had held to be the truth. The churches being no longer open to him, he preached openly in the fields, finally arriving in Norwich, where the bishop, Richard Nix, caused him to be arrested. Articles were drawn up against him by Convocation, he was tried, degraded from his orders and handed over to the civil authorities to be burned. The sentence was carried out at Lollards Pit, Norwich on 19 August 1531. After witnessing Bilney's death, Bishop Nix is reported to have said, \"I fear I have burned Abel and let Cain go\".\n\nA parliamentary inquiry was threatened into this case, not because Parliament approved of Bilney's doctrine but because it was alleged that Bilney's execution had been obtained by the ecclesiastics without the proper authorisation by the state. In 1534 Bishop Nix was condemned on this charge to the confiscation of his property.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312795", "title": "Maidstone Grammar School", "text": "Maidstone Grammar School\n\nMaidstone Grammar School (MGS) is a grammar school in Maidstone, England. The school was founded in 1549 after Protector Somerset sold Corpus Christi Hall on behalf of King Edward VI to the people of Maidstone for £200. The Royal Charter for establishment of a grammar school was also granted at this time.\n\nThe school takes boys at the age of 11 and over, by examination, and male and female pupils at 16+ on their GCSE results. The school currently has over 1200 pupils and approximately 120 members of staff. The school holds both a Language College award and a Healthy School award. It is situated just off Loose Road (A229), west of Mote Park and the Mote Park Leisure Centre.\n\nThe main school building surrounds a Tudor-style quadrangle with a cloister on one side, with a new block added in the 1960s to house the geography, religious studies, classics, business studies and post-16 subject classrooms. A design and technology (DT) block was added in 1981 to complete a second quadrangle nicknamed the 'Court'. In 2005, a new refectory and teaching block (later named the Walker Building after a retired member of staff) with 15 classrooms was built for the maths, history and art departments. An 'Applied Learning Centre' was completed in the 2010–11 academic year and a similarly styled 'Food Technology' and Sixth Form block opened in September 2011.\n\nA new Performing Arts building was built ready for use at the start of the 2017/18 academic year. The building includes a recording studio, music practice rooms and stage in order to accommodate the reformed performing arts department. In the 2018/19 academic year, a new sports pavilion and separate computing and science block was completed. The pavilion was constructed to replace the traditional pavilion which had fallen into disrepair and houses improved changing facilities and PE offices. The computing and science building consists of modern laboratories and three new computer suites. \n\nThe school opened a refurbishment of the War Memorial Library at the start of the 2019/20 academic year to accommodate the growing number of students, and planning permission has been approved for a new all-weather sports pitch on the field.\n\nA house system was inaugurated in 1899 with three houses of 'School', 'East Borough' and 'West Borough', with allocation based on local geography (East House for boys living east of the River Medway, West House for boys West of the riverside, and School House for local townspeople). In September 2007, the school reformed the tradition with the introduction of six new school houses, named after military vehicles: Challenger (purple), Churchill (yellow), Endeavour (red), Hurricane (green), Invincible, (blue), and Spitfire (white).\n\nFor the 2017-18 academic year, a new house system was introduced to accommodate the expansion of the school. The four new house names are based on the four sites the school has used since its foundation in 1549, being blue-based Barton (the present school site, used from 1930), green-based College (the site at the College of All Saints), red-based Corpus Christi (the original site in 1549 of Corpus Christi Hall) and yellow-based Tonbridge (the former Tonbridge Road site used from 1871).\n\nThe sixth form is one of the largest in the south-east of England. Each year the school takes up to 200 students into Year 12, including about thirty external pupils of mixed gender from any school according to their GCSE results. The sixth form teaches AS and A2 courses.\n\nSchool sport participation includes rugby, football, field hockey, cricket, rowing, athletics, handball, and basketball.\n\nThe school has a Combined Cadet Force, with Navy, Army and RAF sections accepting students on a voluntary basis when they reach year nine. The Cadet Force, in particular the Army section, has roots in the Royal Engineers. The Navy section is affiliated with HMS Collingwood, a land establishment in Portsmouth, the Navy section is the senior service after the creation of the CCF in 1906. The RAF section was one of the most successful in the United Kingdom, winning 9 Air Squadron Trophies and was the pinnacle of drill for the whole of the CCF, entering teams into competitions on a national level, including Air Squadron Trophy and the Air Training Corps.\n\nIn 1908, Rev C. G. Duffield (the headmaster from 1898 to 1913), wrote Latin lyrics to the music of music-master Dr H. F. Henniker for \"Gaudeamus\", the school song. The words, based on verses in Virgil’s \"Aeneid\", are still sung on special occasions such as upper and lower school speech days.\n\n\"The Maidstonian\" is the school's annual publication of reports, articles, news and original contributions. Originally a simple record of every member of staff, as well as each pupil and his form, \"The Maidstonian\" has evolved into a publication that is written by pupils, for pupils. Editions include information about any member of staff who has left or who joined the school that academic year, reports from the CCF, Music Department, sports teams, and diaries from foreign trips. Original contributions are of mainly poetry, prose and artwork.\n\nThe school operates a Development Fund replacing the previous Alumni fund in order to seek funds for future developments. Currently the school has received planning permission for an all-weather sports pitch.\n\nFormer pupils of the school are called \"Old Maidstonians\" and include:\n\n\"Art, Music & Literature\"\n\n\"Media, television & film\"\n\n\"Military\"\n\n\"Politics & government\"\n\n\"Religion\"\n\n\"Science & academia\"\n\n\"Sport\"\n\n\"Other\"\n\n\nThe Parents Association\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312801", "title": "Ardor (film)", "text": "Ardor (film)\n\nArdor (), is a 2002 South Korean film directed by Byun Young-joo. It stars Yunjin Kim of \"Lost\" fame. It is based on the novel \"A Special Day That Comes Only Once In My Life\" (내 생에 꼭 하루뿐일 특별한 날) by Jeon Gyeong-rin.\n\nA thirty-year-old housewife, Mi-heun, is visited by a woman in a red sweater. She smirks and tells Mi-heun that her husband is her lover. These few words take away and shatter Mi-heun's life as she knew it, a true terror on an unforgettable Christmas evening.\n\nSwept away by the peaceful, silent town of Butterfly Ville, Mi-heun and her family begin a new life as if nothing had happened. However, the aftermath of that night still haunts Mi-heun with headaches as she vexatiously tries to vent out her heartache, alone. But nothing seems to change.\n\nIn-kyu is a not-so-busy country town doctor who enjoys fishing in the nearby lake. The rest of his time is spent on fishing girls out for sex. As the doctor is beginning to enjoy and is getting comfortable with his small town life, he meets her.\n\nAs Mi-heun sits blankly under the blazing sun at a rest stop, a sharp voice comes to her like an alarm and awakes her. She refuses him with all her body and might, but at the same time, falls into him with her entire body and soul.\n\nIn-kyu gives Mi-heun an overwhelming answer to her question. When she felt like she was at the end of her ropes, she falls into a dangerous game of sex that would never allow for love. Unaware to herself, she starts to enjoy the lover's game more and more.\n\nMi-heun's husband wants to make a pond outside their new house. Hyo-Kyung hopes to make the pond to raise some fish and live happily there, together, as a family. However, the one person who should be there sharing his small dream is not there. The lonely pond remains as Mi-heun is walking through the heavy woods that are found outside the only motel in town. What will become of the husband who waits for his wife, and the two star-crossed who choose the path of no return? Is there an end to their never-ending desires?\n\n"}
{"id": "2312806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312806", "title": "Muscovite manorialism", "text": "Muscovite manorialism\n\nThe development of feudal society in the region of Rus' took a different course to that in Western Europe. In particular, under the version of manorialism practised in Rus', knights granted land by a prince were not bound in allegiance to that prince; and instead of serfdom much of the land was worked by a partially free peasant class (\"smerd\"). In consequence, there was no strong central monarchy able to resist invasions by the Poles, Norsemen, Tatars and Mongols. A strong central power emerged only later, particularly under Ivan III of Russia, which defeated the invaders, unified the territory of Rus', and laid claim to large areas of land.\n\nAt the end of the first millennium AD, Europe was experiencing the full effects of the order and advances in social structure begun during the early Middle Ages; however, the structure and development(s) characterising medieval European society were not found beyond the Carpathian Mountains, and the region of Rus' remained as a disordered regionalist \"state\". The early development of feudal society in the absence of a strong central government helped the European states overcome the harshness experienced in the Dark Ages by enabling the creation of strong governments.\n\nIn Western Europe, a manorial (economic)/feudal (political) system was created, culminating in the full development of feudal society spreading across Europe and to England; a society which divided land, top to bottom, from the monarch to his immediate trustee or vassal, to the peasant or serf, who worked the fiefs in tribute, in return for protection from invaders. This symbiotic system created the first central governments throughout Christendom since the fall of Rome.\n\nThe history of Eastern Europe, Rus' in particular, was different. Due to the expansion of trade and its geographical proximity, Kiev became the most important trade center of Kievan Rus' and chief among the communes; therefore the leader of Kiev gained political \"control\" over the surrounding areas. This princedom emerged from a coalition of nuclear families banded together in an effort to increase the available workforce and expand the productivity of the land. This union developed the first major cities in Rus' and was the first notable form of self-government. As these communes became larger, the emphasis was taken off the family holdings and placed on the territory that surrounded them. This shift in ideology became known as the \"verv'\".\n\nThe change in political structure led to the inevitable development of the peasant class or \"smerds\". \"Smerds\" were free peasants who found work by laboring for wages on the manors which began to develop around 1031 as the \"verv<nowiki>'</nowiki>\" began to dominate socio-political structure. \"Smerds\" were initially given equality in the Kievan law code, being theoretically equal to the prince, so they enjoyed as much freedom as can be expected of manual laborers. However, in the 13th century they began to slowly lose their rights and became less equal in the eyes of the law.\n\nThe major difference between the Kievan manorial system and European feudalism consists in the fact that lands granted by a prince to a knight held no obligation; that is to say if the knight wished to leave the service of the prince, who usually expected loyalty, he was able to do so with no obligation whatsoever and was also able to retain possession of the granted land. Therefore, the political structure created by Western European feudalism was not transferred to the Rus' by its manorial system. Rather, the manorial system was more of an economic control.\n\nThe manor owners in Rus' usually relied on direct production from their land and chose not to rent it out, which proved a stark contrast to feudal Europe in which by the High Middle Ages most of its land was claimed by monarchs, who in turn parceled it to vassals who rented the land to serfs. Even though it became increasingly common for one knight to have landholdings in several different princedoms, due to the use of direct production, the land of the Rus' was still largely in the hands of the peasants during the 12th century.\n\nBy 1100 it started to become more apparent that the \"smerds\" were considered lower than their totally independent counterparts in Europe (free traders); however, it is important to note the \"smerds\" still had much more freedom than the growing peon/serf class of Europe. Even though this indentured class grew greatly in numbers, the economy of Kievan Russia blossomed until 1125, the year of the death of Prince Vladimir Monomakh.\n\nThrough its history, the Kievan coalition inherited a tradition of lateral succession to the princedom; that is to say, that when a prince died, he was replaced by his brother, then he by the next brother, etc. with this repeating until the last brother was reached and then succession transferred back to the elder prince's son. Unfortunately for the Kievians, when Vladimir died, there was no clear line of succession and political infighting ensued; the resulting anarchy and civil war made trade difficult and invasion inevitable.\n\nPolitically, the structure of the Kievan Federation left the people without the tools necessary to ward off invaders and prosecute a winnable war. The aristocracy had no real power to deal with foreign states and there was no seat of true power as was found in feudal Europe. The Kievan Federation lacked the land-grant vassal—lord system which made England and France strong. In those two states, the king granted land to his loyal knights in return for cooperation, loyalty and tax revenue. The knight, or vassal, would then parcel the land out to renters or serfs, in order to bring in wealth. The king offered protection to the knight by control of an army to ward off invaders and the knight afforded safety to the serfs by local protection.\n\nThe Kievan federation, however, took the path of the German Empire and still contained characteristics of city-state independence; the individual family communes still thought of themselves as independent entities. In Europe as often happened, independent states often banded together and formed a strong central power in efforts to achieve a common goal, such as defense. Unfortunately for the people of Rus' they found themselves with no strong government, no clear successor, and no foreseeable way to ward off the invasions of its enemies. It would not take long for sorties in the north and west by the Norse and Poles to begin the weakening of the Kievan state to a point where the Tatars were able to conquer the country unopposed.\n\n1237 marked the beginning of a period of decline for the Rus', as both a culture and as a people. The first through Fourth Crusade, which effectively halted trade with the Byzantine Empire and cut off the Middle Eastern trade routes, began the decline of Kievan importance. The Mongol invasion of 1237 also helped mark the passing of free Kievian society. The Tatars sacked Kiev and all major towns; their practice of total destruction led to the dismemberment of the Kievian princedom and an end to Russian society as their people knew it. With the annihilation of Kiev and every city west of it all the way into Central Europe, Russian trade with the west and south was curtailed. With the destruction of its trade base and its trade routes curtailed, Kiev's role as an important seat of power ended. The people found it necessary to move to the northeast where they found a new home in the princedoms of the upper Volga River and Oka River.\n\nAs the invading Mongols ravaged the countryside, entire populations were wiped out. The peasant and serf classes were nearly destroyed en totalium; the continuation of the historical family commune social structure was broken and proved ineffective for large-scale governmental control. Most of the minor princedoms were destroyed. Most cities in the Rus' were razed and the population found it necessary to flee to the northeast in hopes of escaped the wrath of the Golden Horde.\n\nAs the Golden Horde expanded across Asia, the Khanate found it necessary to incorporate different governing aspects of the peoples it conquered; from these, much was taken from the Chinese. Their philosophy on autocratic dual government was carried from the Tatar state all the way to Muscovite Rus'. The ruling Khanate injected the Mongol governing ideology into the Rus', formed its princes to this mold and exacted control on the society as dictated by their synthesized theorem of government and established dominance over the Rus' political structure.\n\nThe Mongols realized the importance of cultural assimilation and local government. Mongols borrowed the political and cultural ideas from the societies they conquered. The Qipchaq idea of dual government, a principle of dual civil-military administration used to affect control over a large area, was initially developed by the Han Chinese. Han civil code, with the synthesis of Islamic iqtā, a system of decentralized cavalry control (power dispersion), proved to be an effective way of governing the Mongols' empire. After the death of Genghis Khan it was obvious the succeeding khans needed to implement effective government control over their subjects; the importance of local government, run by the natives, became evident.\n\nBy the early 14th century, the Prince of Moscow was seen as one of the chief princes of the Rus', and by the late 14th century recognized as the chief prince of Rus', or Grand Prince. Consequently, the Khanate granted him the governing power of the Mongolian basqaqs, or governor. Power was laid to the prince to collect taxes and use military force to maintain order. When the Khan was thoroughly convinced the Grand Prince could perform all the duties of the basqaqs effectively, he was given total control and the Mongol basqaqs were withdrawn from the Rus'. Although the Khan removed his governors due to acquiescence and acceptance of Qipachaq authority, he did maintain an envoy to the Rus' to keep open dialogue with the Grand Prince. In concession to the khan for this near autonomy, a monetary payment based on population, military service and of course compliance to Qipachaq whim was demanded. In effect the Rus' was commanded as a tribute state to the Mongol Empire.\n\nTaking advantage of a peaceful situation with the Mongols, the Grand Prince was able to look again to his princedom and began extending his power further from Moscow. Grand Princes of Moscow ruled the Rus' for much of the rest of the century in near peace. As the Grand Princes extended their power, land ownership was assuming a more dominant role in deciding one's true worth in the social strata. Throughout the 14th and 15th centuries there were no restrictions on land ownership, as men of every class were able to hold a piece of dirt and call the other their equal. Since primary production was still the chief means of working the land, the serf class, as was seen in England, did not develop quickly. Instead the land was worked by the owner and his family, slaves, and those he paid for labor.\n\nInternal consolidation of power accompanied outward expansion of the Rus' state. Even though the occurrences of private land ownership were increasing, the Grand Prince and his subservient princes considered all the lands of their realms their personal property. Traditionally the Grand Prince was forced to recognize private ownership of land, because the prince was not able to wield enough power to push his belief in supreme ownership. Later, when the Grand Prince was able to consolidate power, the idea of princely land ownership would not be forgotten and would have consequences on the future.\n\nIt was under Grand Prince Dmitri Donskoy (1359–1389) that the Grand Prince of Moscow became strong enough to fight the Mongols and win. In 1378, self-assured in his power, he stopped paying tribute. Pro-Byzantine and pro-Mongol factions began to develop among the people. Some saw the Byzantine Church and the Byzantine Emperor as the direction the Rus' should take; one not allowing for Tatar administrative and military dominance. The others saw the Mongols as a supreme way to organize and stay away from non-secular governmental influences.\n\nHelping the Rus' cause, in the time of Dmitri and his successor Vasili I (1389–1425), was the fact that the Golden Horde was crippled, first by a civil war, then by a devastating invasion by Tamerlane. Afterwards, Vasili I never paid full tribute, rather, he just sent the Khan \"gifts\" when he cared to. The next prince, Vasili II (1425–1462), reversed the roles of lord & vassal by putting a Mongol prince in charge of one of his cities.\n\nBy the time of Ivan III of Russia's ascension to power, various semi-independent princes still claimed specific territories, but he forced the lesser princes to acknowledge the Grand Prince of Moscow and his descendants as unquestioned rulers with control over military, judicial, and foreign affairs. Ivan also (strongly) implemented the philosophy of all the land being the Grand Prince's personal property.\n\nIvan III also reorganized the land of Rus' in such a way as to impose his power and authority over Muscovy. Among his most important accomplishments was the unification under Moscow of the entire Rus'. Much like his predecessors, Ivan used every trick imaginable to gain more land: cash purchase, inheritance, forced treaties, and of course war. He started by buying Yaroslavl in 1463, and Rostov in 1474. He also conquered Tver in 1485, and persuaded many Russian nobles in Grand Duchy of Lithuania to transfer their allegiance to Ivan; this move started the rolling back of the Polish-Lithuanian frontier. Before Ivan III assumed the crown of Moscow, most of the land of Russia was in the hands of a small group of men; twenty-seven men controlled one third of the land not owned by the Church (when he died, Ivan passed to his son Vasili III, a great nation covering 55,000 square miles).\n\nIn 1480 Ivan was able to cause a withdrawal of the Mongols horde along the banks of the Ugra River, marking an end to Rus' Tatar domination; while not a true battle, this pseudo-battle was probably the most important fight for early Muscovy.\n\nPerhaps Ivan's greatest triumph, other than backing down the Khan, was the conquest of Novgorod, the last stronghold of Kievian Russian culture. \"Lord Novgorod the Great\" had always been the largest Russian city-state, with colonies in Finland and even the northern Urals. Ivan's covetous eye upon Novgorod's wealth, combined with large numbers of Muscovites moving to Novgorod's lands in the Urals, brought a war in 1478.\n\nBetween 1484 and 1505 Ivan III systematically took all the land of Novgorod's aristocracy. As his personal land holdings increased (read the size of Rus'), it became ever obvious to Ivan that the administration system of the land would have to be altered to suit such holdings. He also began to realize the importance of a true national army. To remedy both situations he began settling his devoted warriors in Novgorod, about twenty-three thousand in all. He vested the warriors with ample estates in return for devoted military service. By doing this, Ivan planted the first true roots of feudalism in Rus'.\n\nHe also broke the European tradition of only giving fiefs to aristocratic knights. Perhaps 60 percent of his new estate holders were regular servicemen where only five percent were formerly aristocratic. His \"pomestie\" system became the new norm for the administration of land in Rus'. Land parcels were rented to serfs and peasants in return for their labor and service to Ivan III's vassal. Peasants soon had restrictions removed on free movement and began to see their rights increase at a steady rate.\n\nIn contrast to Europe where feudalism created a strong central power, it took a strong central power to develop feudalism in Rus'. The main conclusion that can be drawn from the history of Rus' expansion and power consolidation from the time of Kiev until the founding of the czar is that a lack of true central power weakened and doomed the Rus' to outside domination. In Rus' the system of landlord/worker, loosely called feudalism, developed \"after\" a strong central power was established. Lacking a feudal system of vassal loyalty made it impossible for any prince, early on, to gain enough influence and power to project a strong force against any invaders.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312807", "title": "Het Schip", "text": "Het Schip\n\nHet Schip (\"The Ship\") is an apartment building in the Spaarndammerbuurt district of Amsterdam, built in the architectural style of the Amsterdam School of Expressionist architecture. It is the single most important example of this style of architecture, using the Brick Expressionism version.\n\nThe building was designed by Michel de Klerk. The building vaguely resembles the outlines of a ship. Its appearance is very unconventional from all angles. Designed in 1919, the building contains 102 homes for the working class, a small meeting hall and a post office, which as of 2001 is the museum of the Amsterdam School.\n\nIn the 19th and early 20th century, Amsterdam faced a major housing shortage, with many working-class people living in cramped quarters with no electricity or running water. Heating was usually provided by burning peat, and poor families often lived in a single room together.\n\nIn response to these squalid conditions, the Dutch government passed the National Housing Act (\"Woningwet\") in 1901. This law set up much higher standards for housing and resulted in both the demolition of older, inadequate tenement buildings and the creation of new housing blocks with much better living conditions and prices that made them accessible to Amsterdam's poorer citizens. The new law also set aside financial resources for the development of low-income housing. One of the affordable housing developments created in the wake of the passage of the National Housing Act was the Spaarndammerbuurt, where Het Schip and several other Amsterdam School social housing projects are located.\n\nMuch of the new low-income housing was financed by cooperative housing associations run by groups such as workers' collectives, socialist organizations, religious groups. One such group was Eigen Haard, or \"our own hearth,\" a socialist group that commissioned Michel de Klerk to design and build three blocks of proletarian housing, including Het Schip.\n\nThe apartments of Het Schip were a radical departure from the poor living conditions of many of Amsterdam's working-class people in the 20th century. Relatively spacious, they include several separate rooms as opposed to the one-room dwellings still common at the time. They also included flush toilets and had ample natural light and ventilation from windows. Ground-floor apartments also had gardens.\n\nThe building also includes a post office, which the poor had previously had little access to. The post office contained a telephone box from which families could make calls.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312809", "title": "National Association for the Education of Young Children", "text": "National Association for the Education of Young Children\n\nThe National Association for the Education of Young Children (NAEYC) is a large nonprofit association in the United States representing early childhood education teachers, para-educators, center directors, trainers, college educators, families of young children, policy makers, and advocates. NAEYC is focused on improving the well-being of young children, with particular emphasis on the quality of educational and developmental services for children from birth through age 8.\n\nIn the 1920s, concern over the varying quality of emerging nursery school programs in the United States inspired Patty Smith Hill to gather prominent figures in the field to decide how to best ensure the existence of high-quality programs. Meeting in Washington, DC, the group negotiated the issue of a manual, called \"Minimum Essentials for Nursery Education,\" that set out standards and methods of acceptable nursery schools. Three years later, the group cemented the existence of a professional association of nursery school experts named the National Association for Nursery Education (NANE). NANE changed its name to NAEYC in 1964.\n\nThe association has existed for over 80 years. Its holds two national early childhood conferences per year, the NAEYC Annual Conference & Expo and the NAEYC National Institute for Early Childhood Professional Development. The NAEYC Annual Conference & Expo is the largest early childhood education conference in the world. The association publishes periodicals, books, professional development materials, and resources, all of which relate to the education of young children. The association is also active in public policy work. The association is well known for accrediting high-quality child care/preschool centers, and more than 10,000 centers, programs and schools have earned NAEYC Accreditation.\n\nNAEYC accredits early childhood programs according to health, safety and education standards it first launched in 1985 and reinvented and released in September 2006.\nThe new standards were intended to provide a more reliable and accountable accreditation system and to encourage the field of early childhood education to strive for a new level of excellence.\n\nNAEYC also accredits academic degree programs for early childhood educators.\n\nNAEYC has a structure of state and local Affiliates that are semi-autonomous but that are required to contribute part of the membership dues to the national organization. The Office of Affiliate Relations provides direct services to NAEYC State Affiliates and Regional Affiliates to support them in their efforts to build capacity and become high-performing, inclusive organizations.\n\nNAEYC provides many different programs to assist professionals who work to educate young children. They are a leading publisher of educational resources, which include books, videos and posters that can assist in the teaching of young children. NAEYC also publishes two scholarly journals to help early childhood professionals and parents stay informed about the latest research on educating children age 0-8. These journals are \"Young Children\" and \"Early Childhood Research Quarterly.\" In 2007, NAEYC also developed \"Teaching Young Children\", a magazine written for preschool teachers. The magazine provides useful, research-based ideas that teachers can use in their classrooms. Every year the NAEYC offers several conferences where participants can learn about and receive professional development in their field as well as focus on the improvements that have been made in the practices, policies and research.\n\nNAEYC goes beyond publications, conferences and videos, and offers a program called “Supporting Teachers, Strengthening Families” that is designed to assist in the fight to prevent child abuse and promote healthy social and emotional development in young children. This program works by teaching the educators how to better communicate with the families of their students. Another important program sponsored by the NAEYC is the “Week of the Young Child”. This is a week-long promotion every spring that brings public awareness to the importance of early childhood development and education.\n\nNAEYC encourages its supporters to be informed of current issues and legislation that affect the lives of young children. At the NAEYC Children's Champions Action Center, individuals can find information about the federal legislative process, learn how to contact members of Congress, and see the daily agenda for the House and the Senate.\n\nNAEYC believes that our nation is at a crossroads. An integrated system of early childhood care and education that includes comprehensive approaches that directly involve families and communities in program design, implementation, and evaluation must be developed. NAEYC believes Americans can invest now in our children and families and enjoy long-term savings, with a more vibrant nation of healthy, achieving children and more stable families. Or, they can fail to make the investment and pay the price: increased delinquency, greater educational failures, lowered productivity, less economic competitiveness, and fewer adults prepared to be effective, loving parents to the next generation of children.\n\nFederal, state and local government, communities, parents, and the private sector must share in the responsibility of ensuring the well-being of children and families.\n\nIn order to keep the programs going, NAEYC members must pay dues for funding of the programs they run. In September 2012, the NAEYC members at that time received a letter/e-mail regarding a due increase. This was the first time since 2000 that there was an increase in dues.\n\nThe following periodic publications are released and sponsored by NAEYC:\n\nYoung Children\n\n\"Young Children\" is a peer reviewed journal published bi-monthly by the National Association for the Education of Young Children. In this journal, issues are organized around topical clusters that devote special attention to issues in the field of early childhood education.\n\nTeaching Young Children\n\n\"Teaching Young Children\" is a magazine specifically designed for preschool teachers. It highlights current thinking on best practices in early childhood education, innovations in the field, research and its implications, and interesting ideas for and from preschool teachers. The articles and other features reinforce the accreditation criteria for the NAEYC Early Childhood Program Standards on Relationships and Teaching and encourage effective teaching in the preschool years.\n\nEarly Childhood Research Quarterly\n\n\"Early Childhood Research Quarterly\" is a research journal that is published four times a year, and contains current research in early childhood.\n\nIn addition to these periodicals, NAEYC produces formal position statements from time to time to \"state the Association's position on issues related to early childhood education practice, policy, and/or professional development for which there are controversial or critical opinions.\" These position statements are typically produced by NAEYC to include in-depth discussion of specific issues such as Early Learning Standards, Teacher Certification or Media Violence. In a few instances, NAEYC has issued position statements jointly with other authorities. A recent example is the 2012 position statement titled \"Technology and Interactive Media as Tools in Early Childhood Programs Serving Children from Birth through Age 8\", produced jointly with the Fred Rogers Center for Early Learning and Children's Media at Saint Vincent College.\n\nCaring for Children in Low-Income Families: A Substudy of the National Child Care Survey, 1990\n\n\"Caring for Children in Low-Income Families\" is a study that NAEYC conducted with The Urban Institute in 1990 on affordable child care facilities for low- income families. This book explores multiple different aspects of the lives of low-income children and day care. The study also examines aspects of the family lives. For example, whether a home has a single parent, two parents, unemployed parents, or other odd family situations and how that affects the children and their abilities to receive proper education. This was a very thorough and detailed study conducted by NAEYC and it helped them to better suit their own child care facilities to adapt to the needs of low-income families.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312813", "title": "Stopford Brooke", "text": "Stopford Brooke\n\nStopford Brooke may refer to;\n\n"}
{"id": "2312819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312819", "title": "Psychiatric and mental health nursing", "text": "Psychiatric and mental health nursing\n\nPsychiatric nursing or mental health nursing is the appointed position of a nurse that specialises in mental health, and cares for people of all ages experiencing mental illnesses or distress. These include: schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder, mood disorders, anxiety disorders, personality disorders, eating disorders, suicidal thoughts, psychosis, paranoia, and self-harm.\n\nNurses in this area receive specific training in psychological therapies, building a therapeutic alliance, dealing with challenging behaviour, and the administration of psychiatric medication.\n\nIn most countries, a psychiatric nurse will have to attain a bachelor's degree in nursing to become a Registered Nurse (RN), and specialise in mental health. Degrees vary in different countries, and are governed by country-specific regulations. In the United States one can become a RN, and a psychiatric nurse, by completing either a diploma program, an associates (ASN) degree, or a bachelors (BSN) degree.\n\nMental health nurses can work in a variety of services, including: Child and Adolescent Mental Health Services (CAMHS), Acute Medical Units (AMUs), Psychiatric Intensive Care Units (PICUs), and Community Mental Health Services (CMHS).\n\nThe history of psychiatry and psychiatric nursing, although disjointed, can be traced back to ancient philosophical thinkers. Marcus Tullius Cicero, in particular, was the first known person to create a questionnaire for the mentally ill using biographical information to determine the best course of psychological treatment and care. Some of the first known psychiatric care centers were constructed in the Middle East during the 8th century. The medieval Muslim physicians and their attendants relied on clinical observations for diagnosis and treatment.\n\nIn 13th century medieval Europe, psychiatric hospitals were built to house the mentally ill, but there were not any nurses to care for them and treatment was rarely provided. These facilities functioned more as a housing unit for the insane. Throughout the high point of Christianity in Europe, hospitals for the mentally ill believed in using religious intervention. The insane were partnered with “soul friends” to help them reconnect with society. Their primary concern was befriending the melancholy and disturbed, forming intimate spiritual relationships. Today, these soul friends are seen as the first modern psychiatric nurses.\n\nIn the colonial era of the United States, some settlers adapted community health nursing practices. Individuals with mental defects that were deemed as dangerous were incarcerated or kept in cages, maintained and paid fully by community attendants. Wealthier colonists kept their insane relatives either in their attics or cellars and hired attendants, or nurses, to care for them. In other communities, the mentally ill were sold at auctions as slave labor. Others were forced to leave town. As the population in the colonies expanded, informal care for the community failed and small institutions were established. In 1752 the first “lunatics ward” was opened at the Pennsylvania Hospital which attempted to treat the mentally ill. Attendants used the most modern treatments of the time: purging, bleeding, blistering, and shock techniques. Overall, the attendants caring for the patients believed in treating the institutionalized with respect. They believed if the patients were treated as reasonable people, then they would act as such; if they gave them confidence, then patients would rarely abuse it.\n\nThe 1790s saw the beginnings of moral treatment being introduced for people with mental distress. The concept of a safe asylum, proposed by Philippe Pinel and William Tuke, offered protection and care at institutions for patients who had been previously abused or enslaved. In the United States, Dorothea Dix was instrumental in opening 32 state asylums to provide quality care for the ill. Dix also was in charge of the Union Army Nurses during the American Civil War, caring for both Union and Confederate soldiers. Although it was a promising movement, attendants and nurses were often accused of abusing or neglecting the residents and isolating them from their families.\n\nThe formal recognition of psychiatry as a modern and legitimate profession occurred in 1808. In Europe, one of the major advocates for mental health nursing to help psychiatrists was Dr. William Ellis. He proposed giving the “keepers of the insane” better pay and training so more respectable, intelligent people would be attracted to the profession. In his 1836 publication of \"Treatise on Insanity\", he openly stated that an established nursing practice calmed depressed patients and gave hope to the hopeless. However, psychiatric nursing was not formalized in the United States until 1882 when Linda Richards opened Boston City College. This was the first school specifically designed to train nurses in psychiatric care.\n\nThe discrepancy between the founding of psychiatry and the recognition of trained nurses in the field is largely attributed to the attitudes in the 19th century which opposed training women to work in the medical field.\n\nIn 1913 Johns Hopkins University was the first college of nursing in the United States to offer psychiatric nursing as part of its general curriculum. The first psychiatric nursing textbook, \"Nursing Mental Diseases\" by Harriet Bailey, was not published until 1920. It was not until 1950 when the National League for Nursing required all nursing schools to include a clinical experience in psychiatry to receive national accreditation. The first psychiatric nurses faced difficult working conditions. Overcrowding, under-staffing and poor resources required the continuance of custodial care. They were pressured by an increasing patient population that rose dramatically by the end of the 19th century. As a result, labor organizations formed to fight for better pay and fewer hours. Additionally, large asylums were founded to hold the large number of mentally ill, including the famous Kings Park Psychiatric Center in Long Island, New York. At its peak in the 1950s, the center housed more than 33,000 patients and required its own power plant. Nurses were often called “attendants” to imply a more humanitarian approach to care. During this time, attendants primarily kept the facilities clean and maintained order among the patients. They also carried out orders from the physicians.\n\nIn 1963, President John F. Kennedy accelerated the trend towards deinstitutionalization with the Community Mental Health Act. Also, since psychiatric drugs were becoming more available allowing patients to live on their own and the asylums were too expensive, institutions began shutting down. Nursing care thus became more intimate and holistic. Expanded roles were also developed in the 1960s allowing nurses to provide outpatient services such as counseling, psychotherapy, consultations, prescribing medications, along with the diagnosis and treatment of mental illnesses.\n\nThe first developed standard of care was created by the psychiatric division of the American Nurses Association (ANA) in 1973. This standard outlined the responsibilities and expected quality of care of nurses.\n\nIn 1975, the government published a document called \"Better Services for the Mentally Ill\" which reviewed the current standards of psychiatric nursing worldwide and laid out better plans for the future of mental health nursing.\n\nGlobal health care underwent huge expansions in the 1980s; this was due to the government's reaction from the fast increasing demand on health care services. The expansion was continued until the economic crisis of the 1970s.\n\nIn 1982, the Area Health Authorities was terminated.\n\nIn 1983, better structure of hospitals was implemented. General managers were introduced to make decisions, thus creating a better system of operation. The year 1983 also saw a lot of staff cuts which were heavily felt by all the mental health nurses. However, a new training syllabus was introduced in 1982, which offered suitable knowledgeable nurses.\n\nThe 2000s have seen major educational upgrades for nurses to specialize in mental health as well as various financial opportunities.\n\nIn the end, in order to know what the Psychiatric nurses do we have to understand what mental health really is and who suffers from this. Mental health is \"Emotional, behavioral, and social maturity or normality; the absence of a mental or behavioral disorder; a state of psychological well-being in which one has achieved a satisfactory integration of one's instinctual drives acceptable to both oneself and one's social milieu; an appropriate balance of love, work, and leisure pursuits\" by Medical News Today. People of all ages, teenagers, adults, and the elderly can suffer from mental health disorders. Statistically, \"4.8 percent of all American adults\" (National Institute of Mental Health), suffer from mental health problems. The most famous and occasionally types of Mental Health problems are Anxiety disorders, Mood disorders, and Schizophrenia disorders.\n\nNursing interventions may be divided into the following categories:\n\nPsychiatric medication is a commonly used intervention and many psychiatric mental health nurses are involved in the administration of medicines, both in oral (e.g. tablet or liquid) form or by intramuscular injection. Nurse practitioners can prescribe medication. Nurses will monitor for side effects and response to these medical treatments by using assessments. Nurses will also offer information on medication so that, where possible, the person in care can make an informed choice, using the best medical-based evidence available.\n\nPsychiatric mental health nurses are also involved in the administration of the treatment of electroconvulsive therapy and assist with the preparation and recovery from the treatment, which involves anesthesia. This treatment is only used in a tiny proportion of cases and only after all other possible treatments have been exhausted.\nA patients consent to receive the treatment must be established and defended by the nurse.\n\nAlong with other nurses, psychiatric mental health nurses will intervene in areas of physical need to ensure that people have good levels of personal hygiene, nutrition, sleep, etc., as well as tending to any concomitant physical ailments. In mental health patients, obesity is not rare because some medications can have a side effect of gaining weight which can cause the patient to have low confidence and lead to other health issues. To fix this problem, mental health nurses are urged to encourage patients to get more exercise to enhance their physical health, along with their mental health by improving the patients confidence and lowering stress levels, improving their mental health which has been a focus for mental health nurses because many patients do not get enough exercise. Nurses may also need to help the patients with alcohol or drug abuse because mental health patients are at a higher risk for this behavior. Mental health nurses need to be able to communicate to patients about this. The alcohol and drug abuse could cause the patient to also have a higher risk of sexually transmitted diseases because alcohol and drugs can lead to more sexual behavior.\n\nPsychosocial interventions are increasingly delivered by nurses in mental health settings. These include psychotherapy interventions, such as cognitive behavioural therapy, family therapy, and less commonly other interventions, such as milieu therapy or psychodynamic approaches. These interventions can be applied to a broad range of problems including psychosis, depression, and anxiety. Nurses will work with people over a period of time and use psychological methods to teach the person psychological techniques that they can then use to aid recovery and help manage any future crisis in their mental health. In practice, these interventions will be used often, in conjunction with psychiatric medications. Psychosocial interventions are based on evidence-based practice, and therefore the techniques tend to follow set guidelines based upon what has been demonstrated to be effective by nursing research. There has been some criticism that evidence based practice is focused primarily on quantitative research and should reflect also a more qualitative research approach that seeks to understand the meaning of people's experience.\n\nThe basis of this approach is to look at mental illness or distress from the perspective of a spiritual crisis. Spiritual interventions focus on developing a sense of meaning, purpose, and hope for the person in their current life experience. Spiritual interventions involve listening to the person's story and facilitating the person to connect to God, a greater power or greater whole, perhaps by using meditation or prayer. This may be a religious or non-religious experience depending on the individual's own spirituality. Spiritual interventions, along with psychosocial interventions, emphasize the importance of engagement, however, spiritual interventions focus more on caring and 'being with' the person during their time of crisis, rather than intervening and trying to 'fix' the problem. Spiritual interventions tend to be based on qualitative research and share some similarities with the humanistic approach to psychotherapy.\n\nAs with other areas of nursing practice, psychiatric mental health nursing works within nursing models, utilising nursing care plans, and seeks to care for the whole person. However, the emphasis of mental health nursing is on the development of a therapeutic alliance. In practice, this means that the nurse should seek to engage with the person in care in a positive and collaborative way that will empower the patient to draw on his or her inner resources in addition to any other treatment they may be receiving.\n\nThe most important duty of a psychiatric nurse is to maintain a positive therapeutic relationship with patients in a clinical setting. The fundamental elements of mental health care revolve around the interpersonal relations and interactions established between professionals and clients. Caring for people with mental illnesses demands an intensified presence and a strong desire to be supportive. \nUnderstanding and empathy from psychiatric nurses reinforces a positive psychological balance for patients. Conveying an understanding is important because it provides patients with a sense of importance. The expression of thoughts and feelings should be encouraged without blaming, judging, or belittling. Feeling important is significant to the lives of people who live in a structured society, who often stigmatise the mentally ill because of their disorder. Empowering patients with feelings of importance will bring them closer to the normality they had before the onset of their disorder. When subjected to fierce personal attacks, the psychiatric nurse retained the desire and ability to understand the patient. The ability to quickly empathise with unfortunate situations proves essential. Involvedness is also required when patients expect nursing staff to understand even when they are unable to express their needs verbally. When a psychiatric nurse gains understanding of the patient, the chances of improving overall treatment greatly increases.\n\nIndividualised care becomes important when nurses need to get to know the patient. To lives this knowledge the psychiatric nurse must see patients as individual people with lives beyond their mental illness. Seeing people as individuals with lives beyond their mental illness is imperative in making patients feel valued and respected. In order to accept the patient as an individual, the psychiatric nurse must not be controlled by his or her own values, or by ideas, and pre-understanding of mental health patients. Individual needs of patients are met by bending the rules of standard interventions and assessment. Psychiatric nurses spoke of the potential to 'bend the rules', which required an interpretation of the unit rules, and the ability to evaluate the risks associated with bending them.\n\nSuccessful therapeutic relationships between nurses and patients need to have positive support. Different methods of providing patients with support include many active responses. Minor activities, such as shopping, reading the newspaper together, or taking lunch or dinner breaks with patients can improve the quality of support provided. Physical support may also be used and is manifested through the use of touch. Patients described feelings of connection when nurses hugged them or put a hand on their shoulder. Psychiatric nurses in Berg and Hallberg's study described an element of a working relationship as comforting through holding a patient's hand. Patients with depression described relief when the nurse embraced them. Physical touch is intended to comfort and console patients who are willing to embrace these sensations and share mutual feelings with nurses.\n\nIn order to make patients feel more comfortable, the patient care providers make themselves more approachable, therefore more readily open to multiple levels of personal connections. Such personal connections have the ability to uplift patients’ spirits and secure confidentiality. Utilisation of the quality of time spent with the patient proves to be beneficial. By being available for a proper amount of time, patients open up and disclose personal stories, which enable nurses to understand the meaning behind each story. The outcome results in nurses making every effort to attain a non-biased point of view. A combination of being there and being available allows empirical connections to quell any negative feelings within patients.\n\nThe act of being genuine must come from within and be expressed by nurses without reluctance. Genuineness requires the nurse to be natural or authentic in their interactions with the patient. In his article about pivotal moments in therapeutic relationships, Welch found that nurses must be in accordance with their values and beliefs. Along with the previous concept, O’Brien concluded that being consistent and reliable in both punctuality and character makes for genuinity. Schafer and Peternelj-Taylor believe that a nurses 'genuineness' is determined through the level of consistency displayed between their verbal and non-verbal behaviour. Similarly, Scanlon found that genuineness was expressed by fulfilling intended tasks. Self-disclosure proves to be the key to being open and honest. It involves the nurse sharing life experiences and is essential to the development of the therapeutic relationship, because as the relationship grows patients are reluctant to give any more information if they feel the relationship is too one sided. Multiple authors found genuine emotion, such as tearfulness, blunt feedback, and straight talk facilitated the therapeutic relationship in the pursuit of being open and honest. The friendship of a therapeutic relationship is different from a sociable friendship because the therapeutic relationship friendship is asymmetrical in nature. The basic concept of genuineness is centered on being true to one’s word. Patients would not trust nurses who fail in complying with what they say or promise.\n\nFor a successful therapeutic relationship to form, a beneficial co-dependency between the nurse and patient must be established. A derogatory view of the patient’s role in the clinical setting dilapidates a therapeutic alliance. While patients need nurses to support their recovery, psychiatric nurses need patients to develop skills and experience. Psychiatric nurses convey themselves as team members or facilitators of the relationship, rather than the leaders. By empowering the patient with a sense of control and involvement, nurses encourage the patient's independence. Sole control of certain situations should not be embedded in the nurse. Equal interactions are established when nurses talk to patients one-on-one. Participating in activities that do not make one person more dominant over the other, such as talking about a mutual interest or getting lunch together strengthen the levels of equality shared between professionals and patients. This can also create the \"illusion of choice\"; giving the patient options, even if limited or confined within structure.\n\nTo develop a quality therapeutic relationship, nurses need to make patients feel respected and important. Accepting patient faults and problems is vital to convey respect—helping the patient see themselves as worthy and worthwhile.\n\nBoundaries are essential for protecting both the patient and the nurse, and maintaining a functional therapeutic relationship. Limit setting helps to shield the patient from embarrassing behaviour, and instills the patient with feelings of safety and containment. Limit setting also protects the nurse from \"burnout”, preserving personal stability—thus promoting a quality relationship.\n\nPsychiatric nurses recognise personal vulnerability in order to develop professionally. Humanistic insight, basic human values, and self-knowledge improves the depth of understanding the self. Different personalities affect the way psychiatric nurses respond to their patients. The more self-aware, the more knowledge on how to approach interactions with patients nurses have. Interpersonal skills needed to form relationships with patients were acquired through learning about oneself. Clinical supervision was found to provide the opportunity for nurses to reflect on patient relationships, to improve clinical skills, and to help repair difficult relationships. The reflections articulated by nurses through clinical supervision help foster self-awareness.\n\nThe \"registered psychiatric nurse\" is a distinct nursing profession in all of the four western provinces. Such nurses carry the designation \"RPN\". In Eastern Canada, an Americanized system of psychiatric nursing is followed. Registered Psychiatric Nurses can also work in all three of the territories in Canada; although, the registration process to work in the territories varies as the psychiatric nurses must be licensed by one of the four provinces.\n\nIn Ireland, mental health nurses undergo a 4-year honors degree training programme. Nurses that trained under the diploma course in Ireland can do a post graduation course to bring their status from diploma to degree.\n\nMental Health Nurses in New Zealand require a diploma or degree in nursing. All nurses are now trained in both general and mental health, as part of their three-year degree training programme. Mental health nurses are often requested to complete a graduate diploma or a post graduate certificate in mental health, if they are employed by a District Health Board. This gives additional training that is specific to working with people with mental health issues.\n\nIn Sweden, to become a \"registered psychiatric nurse\" one must first become a registered nurse which requires a BSc. (Bachelor of Science) in Nursing (three years of full-time study, 180 higher education credits). Then, one must complete one year of graduate studies in psychiatric/mental health nursing (60 higher education credits), which also includes writing a MSc. (Master of Science) thesis. The registered psychiatric nurse is an evolving profession in Sweden. However, unlike in countries such as the US, there is no psychiatric-mental health nurse practitioner, so in Sweden, the profession cannot for example prescribe pharmacological treatment. Studies indicatet that the nurses themselves wish for such clinical ladder programs to recognize and motivate the continuing professional development of their profession.\n\nIn the UK and Ireland the term \"psychiatric nurse\" has now largely been replaced with \"mental health nurse\". Mental health nurses undergo a 3-4 year training programme at Bachelor's degree level, or a 2 year training programme at Master's degree level, in common with other nurses. However, most of their training is specific to caring for clients with mental health issues.\n\nRMNs can continue into further training as Advanced Nurse Practitioners (ANPs): this requires completion of a 9 month Master's programme. The role includes prescribing medications, being on call for hospital wards and delivering psychosocial interventions to clients.\n\nIn North America, there are three levels of psychiatric nursing.\n\nPsychiatric nurses who earn doctoral degrees (PhD, DNSc, EdD) often are found in practice settings, teaching, doing research, or as administrators in hospitals, agencies or schools of nursing.\n\nIn Australia, to be a psychiatric nurse a bachelor's degree of nursing need to be obtained in order to become a registered nurse (RN) and this degree takes 3 years full-time. Then a diploma in mental health or something similar will need to also be obtained, this is an additional year of study. An Australian psychiatric nurse has duties that may include assessing patients who are mentally ill, observation, helping patients take part in activities, giving medication, observing if the medication is working, assisting in behaviour change programs or visiting patients who are at home. Australian nurses can work in public or private hospitals, institutes, correctional institutes, mental care facilities and homes of the patients.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312820", "title": "Social dialogue", "text": "Social dialogue\n\nSocial dialogue (or social concertation) is the process whereby social partners (trade unions and employer organisations) negotiate, often in collaboration with the government, to influence the arrangement and development of work-related issues, labour market policies, social protection, taxation or other economic policies. It is a widespread procedure to develop public policies in Western Europe in particular.\n\nThese can be direct relations between the social partners themselves (\"bipartite\") or relations between governmental authorities and the social partners (\"tripartite\").\nTo make it more clear, Social dialogue can mean negotiation, consultation or simply an exchange of views between representatives of employers, workers and governments. It may consist of relations between labour and management, with or without direct government involvement. Social dialogue is a flexible tool that enables governments and employers’ and workers’ organizations to manage change and achieve economic and social goals.\n\nExamples of social dialogue activity include mutual information, open discussion, concertation (on-going tripartite dialogue), exchanges of opinions, consultation and negotiation (agreements /common opinions).\n\nEuropean social dialogue is enshrined in the Treaty establishing the European Community (articles 138 and 139; ex 118a and 118b) and it is promoted by the European Commission as an instrument for a better governance and promotion of social and economic reforms.\n\nAccording to the ILO’s definition, it means the practice of tripartism between governments and the representative organizations of workers and employers within and across borders are now more relevant to achieving solutions and to building up social cohesion and the rule of law through, among other means, international labor standards.\n\nThe aim of social dialogue is to advance opportunities for women and men to obtain decent and productive work in conditions of freedom, equality, security and human dignity.\n\nSocial dialogue includes all types of negotiation, consultation and exchange of information between, or among, representatives of governments, employers and workers on issues of common interest\n\n1. Respect for the fundamental rights of freedom of association and collective bargaining.\n\n2. Strong, independent workers' and employers' organizations with the technical capacity and knowledge required to participate in social dialogue.\n\n3. Political will and commitment to engage in social dialogue on the part of all parties.\n\n4. Appropriate institutional support.\n1. Information sharing：\n\nThe inevitable foundation of effective social dialogue is to share information. Even if it doesn’t include discussion or real action, it still have its meaning.\n\n2. Consultation：\n\nConsultation exceeds information sharing, it needs exchanging perspective, opinion, ideas, and forms a deep conversation.\n\n3. Negotiation/Conclude convention：\n\nSome members need to be authorized to form the binding conventions.\n\n4. Collective bargaining：\n\nCollective bargaining is not only the inseparable form in social dialogue, but also be widely used. In every country, Collective \nbargaining is an indicator to identify the ability of social dialogue’s level.\n\nSocial dialogue faced challenge in some countries. Take Croatia for example, government and social partner couldn’t have consensus on adoption to overcome economic crisis in terms of public cost decrease and job saving through bargaining in several months.\n\nSocial dialogue may take place at different levels and in various form, depending on national circumstances.\n\nSocial dialogue in France was hard to be national because of the political opposite in groups of social partner. Except for collective bargaining, it highlighted the discussion in tripartism on the issues of employment policy and human resource development. Employment committee in France proceeded consultation and participation of policy establishment on the issues of promoting employment and job training.\n\nBecause of the high coverage rate of unions and employers’ groups in Germany, and less of problems in political and ideological conflicts, social dialogue in national level elaborated higher influence on establishment of national policies. Except for job training and employment security, it also emphasized bargaining and negotiation in work conditions, including shortening of work hours and wage increase.\n\nWhen European Union (EU) suffered from the high rate of unemployment, there was brilliant performances in terms of macroeconomic development and employment rate in Austria, Denmark, Ireland and Holland at the 1990s. Take 2001 for example, the unemployment rate of other 15 countries in EU was up to 7.4 percent. On the contrary, the unemployment rate of these four countries was merely 3.5 percent. ILO thought that the main reason of these four countries’ success was social dialogue, macroeconomic policies and labor market policies. For instance, the Wassenaar Agreement signed in Holland in 1982, and Denmark advocated the national recovery program with Ireland in 1987. These agreements stood for the will of social partner to solve economic dilemma.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312821", "title": "Masayuki Nagare", "text": "Masayuki Nagare\n\nNagare's art is strongly influenced by Shintoism, Zen Buddhism, and traditional Japanese martial arts. His principal stone-carving techniques include \"warehada\" (\"cracked skin\" or \"broken texture\"), in which the surface is left rough, with visible chisel marks, and \"shinogi awase\" (\"ridges joined together\"), which describes the meeting of two highly polished surfaces. Some of his works exhibit the contrast between the two techniques. His sculptures' clean lines often follow the subtle curvature of Japanese swords.\n\nNagare's works include \"Cloud Fortress\", which survived the 9/11 attacks at the World Trade Center (New York City) but was destroyed in the rescue and recovery efforts, \"Sakimori (Frontier Guardian)\" installed in the Honolulu Museum of Art, \"Hamaritsurin Garden\" in Seto Ohashi Commemorative Park (Kagawa Prefecture, Japan), \"Receiving\" (受 \"Ju\") stored at the Museum of Modern Art in New York City, and \"Transcendence\" (informally called \"The Banker's Heart\" by locals) installed in A.P. Giannini Plaza at 555 California Street (formerly the Bank of America building) in San Francisco, California. He died in July 2018 at the age of 95.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312823", "title": "Packanack Lake, New Jersey", "text": "Packanack Lake, New Jersey\n\nPackanack Lake is an unincorporated lake community in Wayne in Passaic County, New Jersey, United States. The community is located 30 minutes northwest of Manhattan.\n\nThe median income in Packanack Lake was $100,887, and the average income of households with children was $140,869. 95.9% of Packanack area residents are high school graduates while 57.5% are college graduates. 77.4% of residents are married. 41.4% of residents had children. The average age of residents was 40.6 years old.\n\nGatherings and social events are held on both East Beach (on Lake Drive East) and West Beach (on Lake Drive West) which include band concerts, craft shows, and bonfires.\n\nPackanack's neighborhoods include; Packanack Estates, Packanack Lake, Packanack Manor, Packanack Ridge, and Packanack Woods. Members of the Packanack Lake Community Association, also known as Packanack Lake Country Club, can use the tennis club and golf club located on Osborne Terrace. Packanack residents can send their grammar school-aged children to the Packanack School, located at 190 Oakwood Drive, and residents can also send their high school aged children to Wayne Valley High School or the many private schools in and around the township of Wayne. There are summer camps and activities for the children who live in the lake which include golf lessons, sailing lessons and competitively swimming on the Lake's swim team, The Packanack Pirates. The Packanack Lake Association collects dues from Packanack Lake residents for the purpose of funding the upkeep and use of lake activities.\n\nTransportation to business/commercial centers throughout North Jersey is via Route 3, 4, 20, 21, 23, U.S. Route 46, Interstate 80, Interstate 287 and the Garden State Parkway. Train Stations and \"Park and Ride's\" provide access to North Jersey suburbs and New York City.\n\nNearby country clubs include the Preakness Hills Country Club located on Ratzer Road and the North Jersey Country Club located on Hamburg Turnpike.\n\nThere is a dry cleaner, a post office, a flower and gift boutique, an event planner, a personal fitness center, Gencarelli's Pizza as well as the Lakeside Restaurant Bar which all are located on the lake next to the Packanack Lake Clubhouse. The clubhouse can be used for a variety of things from wedding rehearsals, to birthday parties and block parties. The clubhouse overlooks Packanack Lake with its wooden deck extension. Packanack Lake has its very own golf course, tennis club, elementary school, church and firehouse. Athletic fields are offered for community sports such as tennis, baseball, soccer and flag football. The lake itself is also considered a very productive luxury for residents in the area, as fishing and boating are offered exclusively to members of the Packanack community.\n\nThe Packanack community began long ago when Native Americans farmed, fished and hunted in the area. One tribe, the Pacquanacs, are still remembered in the very name Packanack which is said to mean appropriately \"land made clear for cultivation\".\n\nIn 1780, it was farming country and marshlands not far from the Continental Army encampment of French and American soldiers. Close by were the headquarters of General George Washington at the Dey Mansion and Major-General Marquis de Lafayette at the Van Saun House. They still can be seen today.\n\nThe Packanack area sits on two ridges running in roughly a north-south direction separated by a valley of marshland that in 1928 would be cleared of trees and brush; blocked at the south with an earth and clay dam to form Packanack Lake. That was when Joseph T. Castles, who had purchased 26 farms covering approximately 700 acres (2.8 km²) of these ridges and valley in 1925, began laying the groundwork for the development of a community. The lake itself is man-made. Roads were built, water and sewer mains were laid and a sewage disposal system constructed. The real estate firm of Packanack Lake, Inc. was formed and work began on the clubhouse as well as 17 log cabins and small Cape Cod homes. The clubhouse, which was renovated in 2005, is located on the west beach along with a post office, restaurant/pub, florist, and a deli.\n\nPeople who were born in, residents of, or otherwise closely associated with Packanack Lake include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2312828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312828", "title": "Braciola", "text": "Braciola\n\nBraciola (; plural braciole ) may refer to several distinct dishes in Italian cuisine. \n\nBraciola may refer to an Italian dish, consisting of slices of meat that are pan-fried or grilled, often in their own juice or in a small amount of light olive oil. They are different from the finer cut \"fettine\" (\"small/thin slices\"), which never have bone and are generally thinner.\n\nIn Sicilian cuisine, Italian-American cuisine and Italian Australian cuisine, \"braciola\" (plural \"braciole\") are thin slices of meat (typically pork, chicken, beef, or swordfish) that are rolled as a roulade (this category of rolled food is known as \"involtini\" in Italian) with cheese and bread crumbs and fried. In Sicilian, this dish is also called \"bruciuluni\".\n\nBraciole can be cooked along with meatballs and Italian sausage in a Neapolitan ragù or tomato sauce, which some call \"sarsa\" or \"succu\" (Sicilian), or 'Sunday gravy' in some areas of the northeastern United States. They can also be prepared without tomato sauce. There exist many variations on the recipe, including variations of cheese and the addition of vegetables, such as eggplant. Braciole are not exclusively eaten as a main dish, but also as a side dish at dinner, or in a sandwich at lunch.\n\nAfter being stuffed and rolled, braciole are often tied with string or pinned with wooden toothpicks to hold in the stuffing. After pan-frying to brown, the rolls of meat are placed into the sauce to finish cooking, still secured with string or toothpicks.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312829", "title": "Curtis Borchardt", "text": "Curtis Borchardt\n\nCurtis Alan Borchardt (born September 13, 1980) is an American former professional basketball player. He is a 7 ft 0 in (2.13 m) tall center.\n\nBorchardt played high school basketball in Sammamish, Washington (then Redmond), for Eastlake High School. He then attended Stanford University, where he was an honorable mention All-American as a junior in 2002.\n\nBorchardt was selected 18th overall in the first round by the Orlando Magic in the 2002 NBA Draft but was traded to the Utah Jazz. Injury-prone in college, this continued as he sat out his rookie season. He made his Jazz debut in the 2003-04 campaign. He was dealt to the Boston Celtics as part of the largest trade in NBA history - a 13-player, 5-team deal on August 2, 2005. He was not included on Boston's roster in 2005-06 but played with them in the preseason, scoring seven points in seven games.\n\nHe moved to the Spanish League club Granada in December 2005. In 2009, he joined the French League club ASVEL.\n\nIn 2012, Borchardt signed with Blancos de Rueda Valladolid of Liga ACB.\n\nAwards and achievements:\n\nHis wife, Susan King Borchardt, also played college basketball at Stanford University and later played professionally for the Minnesota Lynx in the WNBA.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312832", "title": "Leon Felton", "text": "Leon Felton\n\nLeon Felton is a Rhodesian/Australian former professional rugby league footballer who played in the 2000s. He played at club level for Canterbury Bulldogs, St. Helens, Warrington Wolves (Heritage № 1020), and Leigh Centurions (loan), as a , or .\n\n"}
{"id": "2312845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312845", "title": "Rossendale Borough Council", "text": "Rossendale Borough Council\n\nRossendale Borough Council is the local authority for the Rossendale district of Lancashire, in northwestern England.\n\nIt was formed on 1 April 1974 as a result of the 1972 Local Government Act and consists of:\n\n\nThe population of the borough was 65,652 at the time of the 2001 Census.\n\nThe Council is elected in thirds with one third of the council up for election each time. Every fourth year residents vote for candidates for Lancashire county council. The borough is made up of 14 electoral wards and there are 36 councillors the council is currently under Labour control.\n\n· Labour 21\n· Conservative 14\n· Community First 1 \n\nThe wards of Rossendale are Cribden, Eden, Facit & Shawforth, Goodshaw, Greenfield, Greensclough, Hareholme, Healey & Whitworth, Helmshore, Irwell, Longholme, Stacksteads, Whitewell and Worsley.\n\nThe Key personal with the council are\nChief Executive - Stuart Sugarman\nMayor - Cllr Anne Kenyon (Labour)\nDeputy Mayor - No Deputy in place for 2017\nLeader Of the Council - Cllr Alyson Barnes (Labour)\nLeader of the opposition - Cllr Brian Essex (Conservative) \n\nIn the 2010s, RBC was criticised for issuing a large number of private hire licences to drivers who then worked in areas outside Rossendale, such as Manchester city centre, without local knowledge of those areas.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312847", "title": "Henry Kirke Brown", "text": "Henry Kirke Brown\n\nHenry Kirke Brown (February 24, 1814 in Leyden, Massachusetts – July 10, 1886 in Newburgh, New York) was an American sculptor.\n\nHe began to paint portraits while still a boy, studied painting in Boston under Chester Harding, learned a little about modelling, and in 1836-1839 spent his summers working as a railroad engineer to earn enough to enable him to study further.\n\nHe spent four years (1842–1846) in Italy; but returning to New York he wanted to ensure he remained distinctively American. He bemoaned the fact that so many of the early American sculptors were dominated by Italian influence. Even so, his work combines American subject matter with the style of the Italian masters, such as Donatello.\nHe produced the small, bronze statuette\"The Choosing of the Arrow\" for distribution by the American Art Union, in 1849.\nHis equestrian statues are excellent, notably that of George Washington (1856) in Union Square, New York City, which was the second equestrian statue made in the United States, following by three years that of Andrew Jackson in Washington, D.C. by Clark Mills (1815–1883), and of Brevet Lt. General Winfield Scott (1874) in Washington, D.C.. Brown was one of the first in America to cast his own bronzes. In 1847, Brown was elected into the National Academy of Design as an Associate member, and became a full member in 1851.\n\nAmong his other works are: statue of Abraham Lincoln (Union Square, New York City); Nathanael Greene, George Clinton, Philip Kearny, and Richard Stockton (all in the National Statuary Hall, United States Capitol, Washington, D.C.); De Witt Clinton (\"illustration, below\") and \"The Angel of the Resurrection\", both in Green-Wood Cemetery, Brooklyn, New York; and an Aboriginal Hunter.\n\n\"The New York Times\" remarked that the \"DeWitt Clinton\" was the first American full-length sculpture cast in a single piece, when it was exhibited temporarily in City Hall Park in 1855.\n\nHis nephew and adopted son, Henry Kirke Bush-Brown, was also a sculptor and pupil of Brown's.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312848", "title": "Andrzej Romocki", "text": "Andrzej Romocki\n\nAndrzej Romocki, codename \"Morro\" (16 April 1923 - 15 September 1944, was a Polish Scoutmaster (harcmistrz) who attained the rank of captain in the Armia Krajowa (Polish Home Army, AK) during World War II.\n\nRomocki was active in the Szare Szeregi (Gray Ranks) organisation from 1940 onwards and during the Warsaw Uprising he was the commander of the Rudy Company of the AK Zośka Battalion. He took command of the whole battalion on 31 August 1944 until his death in the Czerniaków district on 15 September. It's possible that he was killed as a result of \"friendly fire\" by soldiers of the Ludowe Wojsko Polskie (LWP, People's Army of Poland).\n\nThe Zośka Battalion fought in the most difficult areas of Warsaw throughout the uprising. At the beginning of August 1944, Zośka was stationed in the Wola district, where, after early successes by the insurgents, which included the liberation of 350 Jews from the Gęsiówka concentration camp, the Germans launched their first major counter-offensive of the uprising (and also committed some of their worst atrocities - the Wola massacre). After 11 August, when Wola fell, Romocki and the entire Zośka Battalion relocated to Warsaw Old Town (\"Starówka\" or \"Stare Miasto\" in Polish), where they fought valiantly for the next three weeks.\n\nBy the end of August the Germans were bombing the encircled Old Town from the air every 15–20 minutes while their artillery also shelled the area throughout the day. Wave after wave of attacks by German tanks, Goliath tracked mines and infantry had been repelled by the insurgents despite heavy casualties, but they were nevertheless gradually losing ground to the vastly superior forces deployed against them, while also running out of ammunition, medical supplies, food and water.\n\nAfter a failed attempt to break out of their encirclement and re-connect the Old Town with the city centre to the south and Żoliborz to the north on 30–31 August, the AK took the reluctant decision to evacuate from the Old Town via the sewers.\n\nOnly insurgents from the Zośka Battalion, commanded by Romocki, managed to escape from the Old Town to the city centre on 31 August. At one point they took off their red and white armbands and marched through enemy-held territory as if they were Germans (like many of the insurgents they wore stolen German uniforms adorned with Polish insignia). Zośka lost so many soldiers during the first month of the uprising that Romocki, despite himself being wounded in the face during the escape, became commander of the whole battalion after it relocated to the city centre.\n\nIn early September Zośka was redeployed to the Czerniaków district, on the left bank of the river Vistula. On 15 September 1944, units of the LWP made their first attempt to cross the river and link up with the insurgents in Czerniaków, in spite of Joseph Stalin's ban. The exact circumstances of Romocki's death are uncertain, but it is possible that he was accidentally killed by a soldier of the LWP who mistook Romocki for a German due to the fact that he was wearing a German uniform.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312853", "title": "The Captain's Paradise", "text": "The Captain's Paradise\n\nThe Captain's Paradise is a 1953 British comedy film produced and directed by Anthony Kimmins, and starring Alec Guinness, Yvonne De Carlo, and Celia Johnson. Guinness plays the captain of a passenger ship that travels regularly between Gibraltar and Spanish Morocco. De Carlo plays his Moroccan wife and Johnson plays his British wife. The film begins at just before the end of the story, which is then told in a series of flashbacks.\n\nIn 1958, the story was made into a Broadway musical comedy, retitled \"Oh, Captain!\".\n\nIn early 1950s North Africa, a man (Alec Guinness) is escorted through an angry, clamouring crowd by a platoon of soldiers. They enter a fort and it is clear that he is to be executed. The commander (Peter Bull) orders the men to line up in two rows and gives the order to fire. As the shots ring out, the scene changes to a ferry ship, \"\"The Golden Fleece\"\", in the docks as the passengers embark for the two days' journey to Gibraltar. Amongst the crew, there is much dismay, and the chief officer, Carlos Ricco (Charles Goldner) takes to his cabin with the clear intention of getting drunk. He is interrupted by an elderly gentleman, Lawrence St. James (Miles Malleson), who had come to speak with his nephew, Captain Henry St. James, on an unspecified, but urgent, matter. He is profoundly shocked to learn that the grief he had encountered on the ship is due to the death of the man he had travelled from England to see. He begs Ricco to explain what has led to such an event. He learns that his nephew Henry was the prosperous owner and skipper of this small passenger ship, which he captained as it ferried regularly to and fro between Gibraltar and Kalique, a port in North Africa.\n\nFlashback to Morocco. Henry St. James lives with his lover, Nita (Yvonne De Carlo)a young, hot-blooded, exotic lady. She is 23 years younger than he and refers to him as \"her Jimmy\". He takes her out every night to expensive, fashionable restaurants and night clubs, where they lead a loud and wild lifestyle. In Gibraltar, he shares his life with Maud (Celia Johnson)his devoted, domesticated wife, 15 years his juniorliving a respectable, sober existence, and going to bed every night no later than ten o'clock with mugs of cocoa. St James gives Nita lingerie. He gives Maud a vacuum cleaner. Both are delighted. On board his ship he disdains all female company, choosing intellectual discussions with male passengers at the Captain's table. He has found a perfect existencehis paradise.\n\nGrowing perhaps complacent, St. James makes a careless mistake. This leads to Ricco, up until then believing Nita to be the captain's wife, discovering that the true Mrs St James is living in Gibraltar. Ricco is glad to assist St. James in maintaining the deception and is soon called into action when Maud flies to Kalique and by chance meets Nita. St. James arranges to have Maud arrested before she and Nita realise that they are married to the same man. He convinces Maud that Morocco is a dangerous place and that she should never return there.\n\nThe years pass by. Maud has twins. She is thrilled with her two boys, but when they are sent to school in England, Maud is no longer enamoured with her existence. She wants to dance and drink gin. On the other hand, Nita wants to stay home and cook for her man. Henry is dismayed and makes every effort to keep everything just the way it was. His attempts to maintain the status quo result in both women taking lovers. When St James discovers Nita's infidelity, he leaves the flat as she continues the argument with her lover, Absalom. Nita shoots and kills her lover. In order to protect Nita, Captain St. James claims that he was the killer.\n\nThe execution is then shown, but the firing squad swing their rifles to the left and shoot their commanding officer. St. James hands them money and walks away.\n\n\nThe film was based on an original story by Alec Coppel. Nicholas Phipps wrote the script.\n\nIt was called \"Paradise\". In 1951 it was announced that Rex Harrison and Lilli Palmer would star. The following year it was announced Laurence Olivier and Vivien Leigh were going to star, with Olivier to direct and Alex Korda to possibly produce.\n\nOlivier and Leigh became unavailable. According to Yvonne De Carlo, when she was offered her role by director Anthony Kimmins, she agreed to do it if Alec Guinness played the lead. Kimmins said it was unlikely to get Guinness and that they would probably go for Ray Milland or Michael Wilding; De Carlo urged they try Guinness again and the actor accepted. (Alec Guinness had a contract with Alex Korda to make one film a year and he agreed to star in October 1952.) Celia Johnson signed to play the other lead.\n\nKimmins said, \"We're trying to show man's triple side... there's the domestic wife – pipe and slippers side; then the jungle side – the girl-in-port sort of thing. Then there's the conversational, man-to-man side... And naturally we stay tongue in cheek throughout so we don't expect to wreck any homes.\"\n\nFilming finished in March 1953.\n\nYvonne De Carlo said she enjoyed the film because she \"got the chance to act\". She found working with Guinness \"an exhilarating experience\".\n\nThe film was a hit at the British box office.\n\nThe film was refused approval by the US Production Code on the ground it was immoral because the lead character was a bigamist. An extra scene was shot to say St James only lived with Nita in North Africa, he was not married to her, he was only married to Maud. This allowed the film to be released.\n\nThere were further issues with censors in the US. The film was banned in Maryland because it \"made light of marriage\".\n\nEventually further changes were made. A line referring to Guinness' character as a \"saint\" was cut, and an epilogue added to the end which stated the film was only a fairytale.\n\nThe movie was widely seen in the USA. A \"Variety\" article in January 1954 said:\nRising popularity of Britain's Alec Guinness among U. S. pic audiences is. reflected in the fact that... [the film] is expected to outgross all that has gone before it... it has grossed $350,000 so far in 29 dates and is being helped along also by its much publicized difficulties with both the Production Code and local censors. If it continues its present pace, “Paradise” may gross more than the three prior Guinness pix together. “Lavender Hill Mob” so far has done $580,000; “Man in the White Suit” $460,000, and “The Promoter” $480,000.\nIn April 1954 \"Variety\" added:\nGuinness films have usually won praise from the key-city critics but until now had limited pull beyond the “art\" circuit. But with his current “Captain’s Paradise” he’s now bigtime b.o. Pic... figures to ring up $1,000,000 in theatre rentals in the U. S. and Canada...“Paradise\" has chalked up $630,000 in distribution loot in less than 1,500 dates. UA figures the film is a cinch to play a total of 5,000 bookings— exhibitor deals are being set at the rate of over 200 a week — and on this basis the $1,000,000 in total rentals looks for sure. Pic has been an especially remarkable click at the Paris Theatre, N.. Y., where the run is now in its 30th week and likely will continue for about another month.\n\nAlec Coppel was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Story.\n\nIncluded as part of the \"Alec Guinness Collection\",\"The Captain's Paradise\" was released on DVD in September 2002.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312855", "title": "Isotope hydrology", "text": "Isotope hydrology\n\nIsotope hydrology is a field of geochemistry and hydrology that uses naturally occurring stable and radioactive isotopic techniques to evaluate the age and origins of surface and groundwater and the processes within the atmospheric hydrologic cycle. Isotope hydrology applications are highly diverse, and used for informing water-use policy, mapping aquifers, conserving water supplies, assessing sources of water pollution, and increasingly are used in eco-hydrology to study human impacts on all dimensions of the hydrological cycle and ecosystem services.\n\nWater molecules carry unique isotopic \"fingerprints\", based in part on differing ratios of the oxygen and hydrogen isotopes that constitute the water molecule. Isotopes are atoms of the same element that have a different number of neutrons in their nuclei.\n\nAir, freshwater and seawater contain mostly oxygen-16 ( O). Oxygen-18 (O) occurs in approximately one oxygen atom in every five hundred and has a slightly higher mass than oxygen-16, as it has two extra neutrons. From a simple energy and bond breakage standpoint this results in a preference for evaporating the lighter O containing water and leaving more of the O water behind in the liquid state (called isotope fractionation). Thus seawater tends to contain more O than rain and snow.\n\nDissolved ions in surface and groundwater water also contain useful isotopes for hydrological investigations. Dissolved species like sulfate and nitrate contain differing ratios of 34-S to 32-S or 15-N to 14-N, and are often diagnostic of pollutant sources. Natural radioisotopes like tritium (3-H) and radiocarbon (14-C) are also used as natural clocks to determine the residence times of water in aquifers, rivers, and the oceans.\n\nThe most commonly used isotope application in hydrology uses hydrogen and oxygen isotopes to evaluate sources or age of water, ice or snow. Isotopes in ice cores help to reveal conditions of past climate. Higher average global temperature would provide more energy and thus an increase the atmospheric O content of rain or snow, so that lower than modern amounts of O in groundwater or ice layer imply the water or ice represents a period of cooler climatic eras or even ice ages.\n\nAnother application involves the separation of groundwater flow and baseflow from streamflow in the field of catchment hydrology (i.e. a method of hydrograph separation). Since precipitation in each rain or snowfall event has a specific isotopic signature, and subsurface water can be identified by well sampling, the composite signature in the stream is an indicator the proportion of the streamflow comes from overland flow and what portion comes from subsurface flow.\n\nStable isotopes in the water molecule are also useful in tracing the sources (or proportion of sources) of water that plants use.\n\nThe isotope hydrology program at the International Atomic Energy Agency works to aid developing states to create a detailed portrait of Earth's water resources.\n\nIn Ethiopia, Libya, Chad, Egypt and Sudan, the International Atomic Energy Agency used radioisotope techniques to help local water policy identify and conserve fossil water.\n\nThe International Atomic Energy Agency maintains a publicly accessible global network and isotopic database for Earth's rainfall and rivers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312856", "title": "Old School (novel)", "text": "Old School (novel)\n\nOld School is a novel by Tobias Wolff. It was first published on November 4, 2003, after three portions of the novel had appeared in \"The New Yorker\" as short stories.\n\nThe book is narrated by a school senior (\"sixth former\" in prep-school vernacular) at an unnamed elite boarding school in the northeastern United States in 1960–61. The unnamed protagonist is a scholarship student who comes from a middle-class family.\n\nHe aspires to be a writer, and the school he attends is an embodiment of a certain kind of academic fantasy, where non-English masters (teachers are \"masters\" here) \"floated at the fringe of [the English masters'] circle, as if warming themselves at a fire,\" and literature is still believed to hold the key to the soul. Robert Frost, Ayn Rand, and Ernest Hemingway, with each of whom the narrator crosses paths, appear in the story, dispensing wisdom, pseudo-wisdom, vitriol. These literary appearances amount to creative satires of these authors, especially Ayn Rand. The novel revolves around themes of adolescence, class, and the role of literature.\n\nThe Penguin Random House publisher's blurb describes the book thus:\nIn his review for the \"New York Times\", critic A.O. Scott writes that \"Old School\" is \"about nothing if not the making of a writer — though it is also, just as plainly, about a writer's failure.\"\n\nThis book was a finalist for the 2004 PEN/Faulkner Award for Fiction.\n\nThe review for \"Old School\" in the \"Los Angeles Times\" noted, \"...Wolff again proves himself a writer of the highest order: part storyteller, part philosopher, someone deeply engaged in asking hard questions that take a lifetime to resolve.\"\n\nThe novel was chosen as a National Endowment for the Arts \"Big Read\" book for communities to read together. The Libraries of Greater Kansas City chose \"Old School\" as their Big Read in 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312859", "title": "INDICARE", "text": "INDICARE\n\nThe overall goal of INDICARE (The INformed DIalogue about Consumer Acceptability of DRM Solutions in Europe) was to help to reconcile heterogeneous interests of multiple stakeholders, and to support the emergence of a common European position with regard to consumer and user issues of Digital Rights Management (DRM) solutions.\n\nINDICARE responded to the 3rd call, subline 3.3: Management of rights for digital content, of the eContent Programme of the European Commission, DG Information Society. INDICARE, a so-called Accompanying Measure, was initiated March 2004 and was scheduled for two years (Ref.: EDC - 53042 INDICARE / 28609). The eContent Programme has been replaced by eContentplus as of 9 March 2005.\n\nINDICARE addresses problems pointed out in the eContent Work Programme 2003–2004: “There has been little attention to the consumer side of managing rights. Questions remain open as to the level of consumer acceptability of rights management solutions. Interface and functionality of systems, as well as policy issues linked to privacy and access to information should be the investigated. The consumer question also involves the easiness of access, the legitimate use of content and business models and the easiness of access for disabled persons” (p. 19). In addition to consumer issues, INDICARE addresses the user side, in particular concerns of creators and small and medium-sized information providers.\n\nThe INDICARE project establishes and maintains an informed dialogue about consumer and user issues of DRM. Informed dialogue means that discussions will be stimulated and informed by good quality input such as news information and profound analyses (see below). Part of the input will be derived from interdisciplinary in-depth research of the INDICARE partners as well as from knowledge of experts and stakeholders co-operating with INDICARE.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312861", "title": "Joachim Rouault", "text": "Joachim Rouault\n\nJoachim Rouault (died 1478), French soldier, was a member of an old family of Poitou. He attached himself to the dauphin (afterwards Louis XI) and became his premier squire. \n\nHe followed Louis in his expedition against the Swiss in 1444, distinguished himself in the war against England in 1448, and received the posts of governor of Blaye and Fronsac and constable of Bordeaux. After taking an important part in the battle of Castillon (1453), which resulted in the defeat and death of John Talbot, 1st Earl of Shrewsbury, he fought against Jean V of Armagnac, in 1455, and in the following year made a fruitless expedition into Scotland. \n\nHe took part in the campaign in Catalonia, and became Marshal of France in 1461, and governor of Paris in 1471. In 1471 and 1472 he defended Amiens and Beauvais against the Burgundians. Towards the end of his life he was disgraced by Louis XI and sentenced to banishment and the confiscation of his property.\n"}
{"id": "2312863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312863", "title": "Nerve growth factor", "text": "Nerve growth factor\n\nNerve growth factor (NGF) is a neurotrophic factor and neuropeptide primarily involved in the regulation of growth, maintenance, proliferation, and survival of certain target neurons. It is perhaps the prototypical growth factor, in that it was one of the first to be described. Since it was first isolated by Nobel Laureates Rita Levi-Montalcini and Stanley Cohen in 1956, numerous biological processes involving NGF have been identified, two of them being the survival of pancreatic beta cells and the regulation of the immune system.\n\nNGF is initially in a 7S, 130-kDa complex of 3 proteins - Alpha-NGF, Beta-NGF, and Gamma-NGF (2:1:2 ratio) when expressed. This form of NGF is also referred to as proNGF (NGF precursor). The gamma subunit of this complex acts as a serine protease, and cleaves the N-terminal of the beta subunit, thereby activating the protein into functional NGF.\n\nThe term \"nerve growth factor\" usually refers to the 2.5S, 26-kDa beta subunit of the protein, the only component of the 7S NGF complex that is biologically active (i.e. acting as signaling molecules).\n\nAs its name suggests, NGF is involved primarily in the growth, as well as the maintenance, proliferation, and survival of nerve cells (neurons). In fact, NGF is critical for the survival and maintenance of sympathetic and sensory neurons, as they undergo apoptosis in its absence. However, several recent studies suggest that NGF is also involved in pathways besides those regulating the life cycle of neurons.\n\nNGF can drive the expression of genes such as bcl-2 by binding to the TrkA receptor, which stimulates the proliferation and survival of the target neuron.\n\nHigh affinity binding between proNGF, sortilin, and p75NTR can result in either survival or programmed cell death. Study results indicate that superior cervical ganglia neurons that express both p75NTR and TrkA die when treated with proNGF, while NGF treatment of these same neurons results in survival and axonal growth. Survival and PCD mechanisms are mediated through adaptor protein binding to the death domain of the p75NTR cytoplasmic tail. Survival occurs when recruited cytoplasmic adaptor proteins facilitate signal transduction through tumor necrosis factor receptor members such as TRAF6, which results in the release of nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) transcription activator. NF-κB regulates nuclear gene transcription to promote cell survival. Alternatively, programmed cell death occurs when TRAF6 and neurotrophin receptor interacting factor (NRIF) are both recruited to activate c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK); which phosphorylates c-Jun. The activated transcription factor c-Jun regulates nuclear transcription via AP-1 to increase pro-apoptotic gene transcription.\n\nThere is evidence that pancreatic beta cells express both the TrkA and p75NTR receptors of NGF. It has been shown that the withdrawal of NGF induces apoptosis in pancreatic beta cells, signifying that NGF may play a critical role in the maintenance and survival of pancreatic beta cells.\n\nNGF plays a critical role in the regulation of both innate and acquired immunity. In the process of inflammation, NGF is released in high concentrations by mast cells, and induces axonal outgrowth in nearby nociceptive neurons. This leads to increased pain perception in areas under inflammation. In acquired immunity, NGF is produced by the Thymus as well as CD4+ T cell clones, inducing a cascade of maturation of T cells under infection.\n\nNGF is abundant in seminal plasma. Recent studies have found that it induces ovulation in some mammals e.g. “induced” ovulators, such as llamas. Surprisingly, research showed that these induced animals will also ovulate when semen from on-schedule or “spontaneous” ovulators, such as cattle is used. Its significance in humans is unknown. It was previously dubbed ovulation-inducing factor (OIF) in semen before it was identified as beta-NGF in 2012.\n\nRecent studies found that the concentration of NGF in the blood plasma is significantly higher in individuals who have been in a romantic relationship with another person for less than 12 months [227 (14) pg/ml], than those who are either not in a romantic relationship [149 (12) pg/ml] or have been in one for more than 12 months [123 (10) pg/ml].\n\nNGF can indirectly stimulate the expression of adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA) by increasing vasopressin secretion. ACTH binds to the MC receptor in the zona fasciculata of the adrenal cortex, and stimulates secretion of the stress hormone cortisol. This rapid increase of cortisol in the blood plasma can induce feelings of euphoria, which may explain the initial \"rush\" of falling in love. Studies show that ACTH can in turn stimulate NGF secretion in both the cerebral cortex and the hypothalamus.\n\nNGF binds with at least two classes of receptors: the tropomyosin receptor kinase A (TrkA) and low-affinity NGF receptor (LNGFR/p75NTR). Both are associated with neurodegenerative disorders.\n\nWhen NGF binds to the TrkA receptor, it drives the homodimerization of the receptor, which in turn causes the autophosphorylation of the tyrosine kinase segment. This leads to the activation of PI 3-kinase, ras, and PLC signaling pathways. Alternatively, the p75NTR receptor can form a heterodimer with TrkA, which has higher affinity and specificity for NGF.\n\nStudies suggest that NGF circulates throughout the entire body via the blood plasma, and is important for the overall maintenance of homeostasis.\n\nBinding interaction between NGF and the TrkA receptor facilitates receptor dimerization and tyrosine residue phosphorylation of the cytoplasmic tail by adjacent Trk receptors. Trk receptor phosphorylation sites operate as Shc adaptor protein docking sites, which undergo phosphorylation by the TrkA receptor Once the cytoplasmic adaptor protein (Shc) is phosphorylated by the receptor cytoplasmic tail, cell survival is initiated through several intracellular pathways.\n\nOne major pathway leads to the activation of the serine/threonine kinase, Akt. This pathway begins with the Trk receptor complex-recruitment of a second adaptor protein called growth factor-receptor bound protein-2 (Grb2) along with a docking protein called Grb2-associated Binder-1 (GAB1). Subsequently, phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI3K) is activated, resulting in Akt kinase activation. Study results have shown that blocking PI3K or Akt activity results in death of sympathetic neurons in culture, regardless of NGF presence. However, if either kinase is constitutively active, neurons survive even without NGF.\n\nA second pathway contributing to cell survival occurs through activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) kinase. In this pathway, recruitment of a guanine nucleotide exchange factor by the adaptor and docking proteins leads to activation of a membrane-associated G-protein known as Ras. The guanine nucleotide exchange factor mediates Ras activation through the GDP-GTP exchange process. The active Ras protein phosphorylates several proteins, along with the serine/threonine kinase, Raf. Raf in turn activates the MAPK cascade to facilitate ribosomal s6 kinase (RSK) activation and transcriptional regulation.\n\nBoth Akt and RSK, components of the PI3K-Akt and MAPK pathways respectively, act to phosphorylate the cyclic AMP response element binding protein (CREB) transcription factor. Phosphorylated CREB translocates into the nucleus and mediates increased expression of anti-apoptotic proteins, thus promoting NGF-mediated cell survival. However, in the absence of NGF, the expression of pro-apoptotic proteins is increased when the activation of cell death-promoting transcription factors such as c-Jun are not suppressed by the aforementioned NGF-mediated cell survival pathways.\n\nRita Levi-Montalcini and Stanley Cohen discovered NGF in the 1950s while faculty members at Washington University in St Louis. However, its discovery, along with the discovery of other neurotrophins, was not widely recognized until 1986, when it won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine.\n\nStudies in 1971 determined the primary structure of NGF. This eventually led to the discovery of the NGF gene.\n\nNGF is abundant in seminal plasma. Recent studies have found that it induces ovulation in some mammals.\nNerve Growth Factors (NGF) were initially discovered due to their actions during development, but NGF are not known to be involved in the function throughout the life of the animal.\n\nNerve growth factor prevents or reduces neuronal degeneration in animal models of neurodegenerative diseases and these encouraging results in animals have led to several clinical trials in humans. NGF promotes peripheral nerve regeneration in rats. The expression of NGF is increased in inflammatory diseases where it suppresses inflammation. NGF appears to promote myelin repair. Hence NGF may be useful for the treatment of multiple sclerosis. NGF could also be involved in various psychiatric disorders, such as dementia, depression, schizophrenia, autism, Rett syndrome, anorexia nervosa, and bulimia nervosa.\n\nDysregulation of NGF signaling has also been linked to Alzheimer's disease. Connective tissue cells genetically engineered to synthesize and secrete NGF and implanted in patients' basal forebrains reliably pumped out NGF, which enhanced the cells’ size and their ability to sprout new neural fibers. The treatment also rescued vulnerable cells, even if they already showed the trademark signs of Alzheimer's pathology. In some patients, these beneficial effects lasted almost 10 years after the treatment. Even patients who died responded positively to the therapy. Even pathological cells with protein clumps in their cell bodies and surroundings extended their fibers toward the NGF source, maintained a healthy size and activated pro-survival signals that boosted their stress resilience. Two other patients received direct injections of modified viruses containing the NGF gene directly to their basal forebrains. This allowed the gene to express longer in the brain.\n\nNeurotrophins, including NGF, have been shown to affect many areas of the brain, including areas that are related to Rett syndrome, bipolar disorder, and Alzheimer's disease. Stress and/or anxiety are usually a precipitating factor in these disorders and affects levels of NGF, leading to impaired cognitive functioning.\n\nThis impaired cognitive functioning can be seen in patients with Schizophrenia. In treatment of schizophrenia, NGF levels are increased in patients using atypical antipsychotic medication, but not in patients using typical antipsychotic medications. Patients using atypical medications usually report improved cognitive performance compared to those using typical antipsychotics. Higher NGF levels from the atypical antipsychotic medications may underlie the reduction in negative symptoms of Schizophrenia relative to typical antipsychotics.\n\nNGF has been shown to restore learning ability in rats recovering from induced alcoholism\n\nRett syndrome and autism often show similar signs early in life, such as slowing development and intellectual disability. One distinguishing factor is that low levels of NGF have been found in the cerebral spinal fluid of children with Rett syndrome compared to children with Autism who have relatively normal to high levels Pharmaceutical therapies with NGF-like activity can be effective in treating Rett syndrome, including better motor and cortical functioning as well as increased social communication.\n\nImpairment of neuroplasticity and altered levels of neuro-trophins are involved in bipolar disorder. NGF has been found to be decreased overall in bipolar disorder patients. More specifically, while in a manic state NGF is especially low. This leads to elevated or irritable mood with increased energy and decreased need for sleep while in a manic state. This decreased NGF may serve as a biological marker when assessing the present state of a bipolar disorder patient. When bipolar disorder patients were treated with lithium, their NGF concentrations increased in the frontal cortex, limbic forebrain, hippocampus, and amygdala.\n\nAn increase in cortical and subcortical NGF has been found in patients with Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's is a neurodegenerative disease with which dysregulation of NGF signaling has also been linked, causing impaired retrograde transport of NGF to certain areas of the brain. This impairment may be caused by an atypical production or use of receptors in the brain. Stimulating NGF receptors via NGF infusion has been shown to increase blood flow and verbal episodic memory. These improvements have been longer lasting than other treatments for Alzheimer's.\n\nAlso, NGF has been shown to play a role in a number cardiovascular diseases, such as coronary atherosclerosis, obesity, type 2 diabetes, and metabolic syndrome. Reduced plasma levels of NGF and BDNF have been associated with acute coronary syndromes and metabolic syndromes. NGF is known to have insulinotropic, angiogenic, and antioxidant properties. NGF suppresses food intake. \n\nNGF has also been shown to accelerate wound healing. There is evidence that it could be useful in the treatment of skin ulcers and cornea ulcers.\n\nIn some gynecological diseases, an elevated prostaglandin E2 is thought to stimulate production of NGF which contributes to the perception of pain and increased inflammation in endometriosis.\n\nMonoclonal antibodies against NGF have been used in clinical trials to modulate pain. One of these is tanezumab, another is fulranumab.\n\nNerve growth factor may contribute to increased longevity and mental capacity. Centenarian Rita Levi-Montalcini took a daily solution in the form of eye drops, and has stated that her brain is more active now than it was four decades ago. In 2014, Sundaravadivel Balasubramanian and coworkers at Medical University of South Carolina showed that NGF level is elevated in people who performed a single 20-minute yoga session involving \"om-\"chanting and \"thirumoolar pranayama\", when compared to a control group.\n\nNerve growth factor has been shown to interact with TrkA and p75NTR (LNGFR).\n\nIt has recently been suggested that NGF expression may be stimulated by dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA). DHEA may also act as an agonist of both TrkA and p75NTR and activate the pathways of NGF, demonstrating neurotrophic activities similar to that of NGF.\n\nAdrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) can also upregulate NGF expression in the brain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312865", "title": "Venous hum", "text": "Venous hum\n\nVenous hum is a benign phenomenon. At rest, 20% of the cardiac output flows to the brain via the internal carotid and vertebral arteries. This drains via the internal jugular veins. The flow of blood can cause the vein walls to vibrate creating a humming noise which can be heard by the subject. Typically, a peculiar humming sound is heard in the upper chest near the clavicle.\n\nThis may be confused with a heart murmur. The venous hum is heard throughout the cardiac cycle. The difference is easily detected by placing a finger on the jugular vein when listening to the heart, which will abolish or change the noise. A true heart murmur will be unaffected by this manoever. The murmur also disappears when the patient is in the supine position or may disappear if the subject turns their head to one side. It is also known by the names \"nun's murmur\" and \"bruit de diable\" (noise of devils).\n\nWhile a venous hum may provoke consultation with a health care professional, it is entirely harmless.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312873", "title": "Pan Am Flight 103 bombing trial", "text": "Pan Am Flight 103 bombing trial\n\nThe Pan Am Flight 103 bombing trial began on 3 May 2000, 11 years, 4 months and 13 days after the destruction of Pan Am Flight 103 on 21 December 1988. The 36-week trial took place at a specially convened Scottish Court in the Netherlands set up under Scots law and held at a disused United States Air Force base called Camp Zeist near Utrecht.\n\nUpon the indictment of the two Libyan suspects in November 1991, the Libyan government was called upon to extradite them for trial in either the United Kingdom or the United States. Since no bilateral extradition treaty was in force between any of the three countries, Libya refused to hand the men over but did offer to detain them for trial in Libya, as long as all the incriminating evidence was provided. The offer was unacceptable to the US and UK, and there was an impasse for the next three years.\n\nIn November 1994, President Nelson Mandela offered South Africa as a neutral venue for the trial but this was rejected by the then British prime minister, John Major. A further three years elapsed until Mandela's offer was repeated to Major's successor, Tony Blair, when the president visited London in July 1997 and again at the 1997 Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM) in Edinburgh in October 1997. At the latter meeting, Mandela warned that \"no one nation should be complainant, prosecutor and judge\" in the Lockerbie case.\n\nThe eventually agreed compromise solution of a trial in the Netherlands governed by Scots law was engineered by legal academic Professor Robert Black of the University of Edinburgh and, in accordance with the Labour government's promotion of an \"ethical\" foreign policy, was given political impetus by the then foreign secretary, Robin Cook. The Scottish Court in the Netherlands, a special High Court of Justiciary, was set up under Scots law in a disused United States Air Force base called Camp Zeist in Utrecht, in the Netherlands. Facilities for a high security prison were also installed there. Under a bilateral treaty between the United Kingdom and the Netherlands, these premises were, for the duration of the trial and any subsequent appeal, under the authority and control of the Scottish Court. Dutch law still theoretically applied to the area, but, barring an emergency, the Dutch authorities were banned from entering the premises and the Court had the authority to enact regulations that superseded Dutch law when necessary for the execution of the trial, and to jail people for contempt of court. The court itself, as well as people involved in the trial also enjoyed total or partial immunity from Dutch law.\n\nTwo Libyans, Abdelbaset al-Megrahi and Lamin Khalifah Fhimah, were accused of the crime. In the run-up to the trial, the prosecution considered bringing charges against Swiss businessman, Edwin Bollier, of the electronics firm that made the timer for the bomb Mebo AG, but decided that, unless evidence to incriminate Bollier were to be introduced during the trial, he would not be included as a co-conspirator in causing the bombing.\n\nLibya made three stipulations, when agreeing to hand over the two accused to the Scottish police: that they would not be interviewed by the police; no one else in Libya would be sought for the bombing; and, that the trial should be before three Scottish judges, sitting without a jury. On 5 April 1999, over a year ahead of the start of the trial, Megrahi and Fhimah arrived in the Netherlands.\n\nThe two accused denied all charges against them. Three outline charges were:\n\nThe full charges included the names of the murdered 259 passengers and crew of Pan Am Flight 103, and the eleven residents killed at Lockerbie in Scotland.\n\nThe Scottish High Court of Justiciary at Camp Zeist, Netherlands was presided over by three senior judges, known as Lords Commissioners of Justiciary and an additional judge (non-voting):\n\nwith:\n\nFive different Lords Advocate were in post from the 1991 indictment of the two accused Libyans until their trial in 2000 – three Conservative: Lord Fraser of Carmyllie, Lord Rodger of Earlsferry, Lord Mackay of Drumadoon, and two Labour: Lord Hardie and Lord Boyd of Duncansby. Lord Boyd led the prosecution on behalf of the Crown Office. Assisting him were Advocate Deputes Alastair Campbell QC and Alan Turnbull QC. Alongside the prosecution were seated U.S. Department of Justice representatives Brian Murtagh, who had helped draw up the indictment against the two accused, and Dana Biehl.\n\nFive years after the trial, former Lord Advocate, Lord Fraser, who issued the arrest warrants in 1991, was alleged to have said that he was not entirely happy with the evidence presented against Megrahi during his trial in 2000, and in his subsequent appeal in 2002. However, he made it clear that this did not mean that he believed Megrahi to be innocent. According to \"The Sunday Times\" of 23 October 2005, Lord Fraser allegedly cast doubt upon the reliability of the main prosecution witness, Tony Gauci.\n\nRepresenting Megrahi were solicitor, Alistair Duff, and advocates William Taylor QC, David Burns QC and John Beckett. Fhimah was represented by solicitors Eddie McKechnie and Paul Phillips, advocates Richard Keen QC, Jack Davidson QC and Murdo Macleod. Both defendants also had access to Libyan defence lawyer Kamel Maghur.\n\nFive pre-trial hearings took place: the accused waived their right to attend two procedural hearings at the High Court in Edinburgh; they attended two hearings at Camp Zeist which were held in private; and, on 7 December 1999 they made their first public appearance before the Scottish Court in the Netherlands. At this public hearing the presiding judge, Lord Sutherland, ruled that:\n\nThe case against the two defendants rested primarily on three points:\n\nEach of these points was contested by the defence.\n\nIn its closing arguments, the prosecution stressed that Megrahi could not have planted the bomb without the assistance of Fhimah – both defendants were equally guilty, and should stand or fall together.\n\nCourt proceedings started on 3 May 2000 with the prosecution outlining the case against the accused and previewing the evidence which they expected would satisfy the judges \"beyond reasonable doubt\" that the sabotage of PA 103 was caused by:\n\nIn the trial's second week, Detective Constable Gilchrist was asked about the piece of charred material that he and DC McColm had found three weeks after the PA 103 crash. DC Gilchrist attached a label to the material and wrote \"Cloth (charred)\" on it. The word 'cloth' was overwritten by the word 'debris'. DC Gilchrist's attempts to explain the overwriting were later described by the judges as \"at worst evasive and at best confusing.\"\n\nThere was no third week and, because of equipment problems in the courtroom, only a truncated fourth week. In week 5, Professor Peel of the Defence Evaluation and Research Agency (DERA) gave evidence concerning the baggage container AVE 4041PA.\n\nWeek 6 was devoted to the testimony behind screens of CIA agents and Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms officers relating to interception of arms caches (including MST-13 timers) in the West African countries of Senegal and Togo.\n\nIn week 7 Alan Feraday, also of DERA, gave evidence. Feraday presented the court with a simulated IED of the type alleged to have caused the sabotage of PA 103. Under cross-examination, he admitted the fragments of radio cassette and timer, found in DC Gilchrist's \"cloth/debris (charred)\" material, had not been tested for explosives residue. The defence were, however, later criticized for having failed to challenge Feraday to explain why his note to Detective Chief Inspector William Williamson in September 1989, covering a Polaroid photograph of the timer fragment (identified in May 1989), said it was \"the best I can do in such a short time.\"\n\nLater in week 7, the co-founder of Mebo AG, Erwin Meister, testified that Mebo had supplied Libya with 20 MST-13 timing devices, and identified one of the two accused (Megrahi) as a former business contact. The defence asked Meister, under cross-examination, to explain the purpose of his visit to Syria in 1984.\n\nMeister's partner, Edwin Bollier, was questioned in week 8. Bollier said Mebo made a range of products including briefcases equipped to radio-detonate IEDs. He agreed that Mebo had sold 20 MST-13 timers to Libya in 1985 which were later tested by Libyan special forces at their base at Sabha. Bollier said: \"I was present when two such timers were included in bomb cylinders\". In court, Bollier was shown a number of printed circuit board fragments which he identified as coming from the Mebo MST-13 timer, but he claimed that these timer fragments appeared to have been modified.\n\nJoachim Wenzel, an employee of the Stasi, the former East German intelligence agency, testified behind screens in week 9. Wenzel claimed to have been Bollier's handler in the years 1982–85 and testified that Mebo had supplied the Stasi with timers.\n\nFormer Mebo employee, Ulrich Lumpert, confirmed that as an electronics engineer he had produced all of the firm's MST-13 timers. Lumpert agreed that the fragments shown to him in court \"could be\" from that timer and was asked to confirm his signature on a letter concerning a technical fault with the prototype MST-13 timer. The trial was then adjourned until 12 July 2000.\n\nOn 18 July 2007 Lumpert admitted he had lied at the trial. In an affidavit before a Zurich notary, Lumpert stated that he had stolen a prototype MST-13 timer PC-board from Mebo and gave it without permission on 22 June 1989, to \"an official person investigating the Lockerbie case\". Dr Hans Köchler, UN observer at the Lockerbie trial, who was sent a copy of Lumpert's affidavit, said: \"The Scottish authorities are now obliged to investigate this situation. Not only has Mr Lumpert admitted to stealing a sample of the timer, but to the fact he gave it to an official and then lied in court\".\n\nIn week 11, Mebo lawyer Dieter Neupert filed an official criminal complaint against the Crown over what he alleged was a 'forged fragment of MST-13 timer'. Tony Gauci of Mary's House, Sliema in Malta, testified that he had sold a number of items of clothing to one of the defendants, Megrahi. Wilfred Borg, Ground Operations Manager at Malta's Luqa airport, was questioned about Luqa's baggage handling procedures. A Mr Ferrugia confirmed that he had been a passenger on Air Malta flight KM 180 to Frankfurt on 21 December 1988.\n\nTwo Germans, Birgit Seliger and Evelin Steinwandt, confirmed in week 12 that they had also travelled on flight KM 180. Martin Huebner and Joachim Koscha were questioned about baggage handling procedures at Frankfurt airport.\n\nFive more passengers on flight KM 180 testified in week 13. The captain of flight KM 180, Khalil Lahoud, also gave evidence and was asked to confirm that the aircraft's altitude during the flight had exceeded 30,000 ft. This information was intended to demonstrate that an IED loaded at Luqa airport would have had a timed detonator rather than a barometric trigger. The trial was then adjourned until 22 August 2000.\n\nIn week 17, another four passengers on flight KM 180 were asked to testify. The following week, Abdul Majid Giaka, a defector from the Libyan intelligence service, appeared wearing sunglasses and a wig. Giaka, who had been on the US Witness Protection Program since July 1991, testified that Megrahi was a Libyan agent.\n\nRather than calling the defendants to the witness stand, their legal team sought to use the special defence of incrimination against the person or persons they believed were guilty of the crime. There was speculation that Mohammed Abu Talb, a convicted PFLP-GC member, would be called by the defence to testify in week 19, and when he failed to appear the trial was adjourned for the next five weeks to allow new evidence from a \"country in the Mid East\" to be examined.\n\nOne of the last witnesses for the prosecution was broadcaster and politician, Pierre Salinger, who was questioned by prosecutor Alan Turnbull and by both defence counsel William Taylor and Richard Keen. After his testimony, judge Lord Sutherland asked Salinger to leave the witness box. However, the broadcaster responded:\nBut Lord Sutherland told Salinger:\n\nAbu Talb gave evidence in week 25 and testified that he had been babysitting at home in Sweden when PA 103 was sabotaged on 21 December 1988.\n\nThe Crown concluded the prosecution case in week 26. In its closing address for Fhimah in weeks 26 and 27, the defence submitted there was no case for him to answer. There were no weeks 28 to 32.\n\nThe expected documents from the \"country in the Mid East\" – thought to be Syria – had not materialized by week 33, and the defence confirmed that the accused would not take the witness stand. The prosecution dropped two of the three charges against the accused, leaving the single charge of murder against both Megrahi and Fhimah. The defence claimed the accused had no case to answer.\n\nIn week 34 the defence argued that the IED started its journey at Heathrow, rather than Luqa airport in Malta. The judges then retired to consider their verdict.\n\nThere was no week 35. The judges announced their verdict on 31 January 2001 in week 36.\n\nIn addition to the options of guilty and not guilty, a third verdict of not proven was available to the judges under Scots Law. The judges announced their verdicts on 31 January 2001.\n\nThe judgement stated:\n\"From the evidence which we have discussed so far, we are satisfied that it has been proved that the primary suitcase containing the explosive device was dispatched from Malta, passed through Frankfurt and was loaded onto PA103 at Heathrow. It is, as we have said, clear that with one exception the clothing in the primary suitcase was the clothing purchased in Mr Gauci’s shop on 7 December 1988. The purchaser was, on Mr Gauci’s evidence, a Libyan. The trigger for the explosion was an MST-13 timer of the single solder mask variety. A substantial quantity of such timers had been supplied to Libya.\n\nWe cannot say that it is impossible that the clothing might have been taken from Malta, united somewhere with a timer from some source other than Libya and introduced into the airline baggage system at Frankfurt or Heathrow. When, however, the evidence regarding the clothing, the purchaser and the timer is taken with the evidence that an unaccompanied bag was taken from KM180 to PA103A, the inference that that was the primary suitcase becomes, in our view, irresistible. As we have also said, the absence of an explanation as to how the suitcase was taken into the system at Luqa is a major difficulty for the Crown case but after taking full account of that difficulty, we remain of the view that the primary suitcase began its journey at Luqa. The clear inference which we draw from this evidence is that the conception, planning and execution of the plot which led to the planting of the explosive device was of Libyan origin.\n\nWhile no doubt organisations such as the PFLP-GC and the PPSF were also engaged in terrorist activities during the same period, we are satisfied that there was no evidence from which we could infer that they were involved in this particular act of terrorism, and the evidence relating to their activities does not create a reasonable doubt in our minds about the Libyan origin of this crime.\"\n\nThe judges were unanimous in finding the second accused, Lamin Khalifah Fhimah, not guilty of the murder charge. Fhimah was freed and he returned to his home at Souk al-Juma in Libya on 1 February 2001. As for Abdelbaset al-Megrahi the judges said: \"There is nothing in the evidence which leaves us with any reasonable doubt as to the guilt of the first accused, and accordingly we find him guilty of the remaining charge in the indictment as amended.\"\n\nMegrahi was sentenced to life imprisonment, with a recommendation that he should serve at least 20 years before being eligible for parole.\n\nThe defence team had 14 days in which to appeal against Megrahi's conviction on 31 January 2001, and a further six weeks to submit the full grounds of the appeal. These were considered by a judge sitting in private who decided to grant Megrahi leave to appeal. The only basis for an appeal under Scots law is that there has been a \"miscarriage of justice\" which is not defined in statute and so it is for the appeal court to determine the meaning of these words in each case. Because three judges and one alternate judge had presided over the trial, five judges were required to preside over the Court of Criminal Appeal:\nIn what was described as a milestone in Scottish legal history, Lord Cullen granted the BBC permission in January 2002 to televise the appeal, and to broadcast it on the Internet in English with a simultaneous Arabic translation.\n\nWilliam Taylor QC, leading the defence, said at the appeal's opening on 23 January 2002 that the three trial judges sitting without a jury had failed to see the relevance of \"significant\" evidence and had accepted unreliable facts. He argued that the verdict was not one that a reasonable jury in an ordinary trial could have reached if it were given proper directions by the judge. The grounds of the appeal rested on two areas of evidence where the defence claimed the original court was mistaken: the evidence of Maltese shopkeeper, Tony Gauci, which the judges accepted as sufficient to prove that the \"primary suitcase\" started its journey in Malta; and, disputing the prosecution's case, fresh evidence would be adduced to show that the bomb's journey actually started at Heathrow. That evidence, which was not heard at the trial, showed that at some time in the two hours before 00:35 on 21 December 1988 a padlock had been forced on a secure door giving access air-side in Terminal 3 of Heathrow airport, near to the area referred to at the trial as the \"baggage build-up area\". Taylor claimed that the PA 103 bomb could have been planted then.\n\nOn 14 March 2002 it took Lord Cullen less than three minutes to deliver the decision of the High Court of Justiciary. The five judges rejected the appeal, ruling unanimously that \"none of the grounds of appeal was well-founded\", adding \"this brings proceedings to an end\". The following day, a helicopter took Megrahi from Camp Zeist to continue his life sentence in Barlinnie Prison, Glasgow.\n\nThe Scottish Criminal Cases Review Commission (SCCRC), which was established by Act of Parliament in April 1999, has wide-ranging powers to investigate cases where a miscarriage of justice is alleged, and reviewed Megrahi's case from September 2003. Although the Commission normally expects to review a case and announce its decision within 12 months, it took nearly four years to complete the Megrahi review. On 28 June 2007 the SCCRC published a summary of its 800-page report and referred Megrahi's conviction to the Court of Criminal Appeal for a fresh appeal. The SCCRC's findings were examined in detail by Al Jazeera in two episodes of the network's \"People & Power\" series in July 2007.\n\nThe second appeal was to have been heard by five Scottish judges in 2009 at the Court of Criminal Appeal. A procedural hearing at the Appeal Court in Edinburgh took place on 11 October 2007 when prosecution lawyers and Megrahi's defence Counsel, Maggie Scott QC, discussed legal issues with a panel of three judges. One of the issues concerns a number of CIA documents that were shown to the prosecution but were not disclosed to the defence. The documents are understood to relate to the Mebo MST-13 timer that allegedly detonated the PA103 bomb. Further procedural hearings were scheduled to take place between December 2007 and June 2008.\n\nPointing out an error on the FCO's website and accusing the British government of \"delaying tactics\" in relation to Megrahi's second Lockerbie appeal, UN Observer at the Lockerbie trial Dr Hans Köchler wrote to Foreign Secretary David Miliband on 21 July 2008 saying:\n\nAs international observer, appointed by the United Nations, at the Scottish Court in the Netherlands I am also concerned about the Public Interest Immunity (PII) certificate which has been issued by you in connection with the new Appeal of the convicted Libyan national. Withholding of evidence from the Defence was one of the reasons why the Scottish Criminal Cases Review Commission has referred Mr. Al-Megrahi’s case back to the High Court of Justiciary. The Appeal cannot go ahead if the Government of the United Kingdom, through the PII certificate issued by you, denies the Defence the right (also guaranteed under the European Convention on Human Rights) to have access to a document which is in the possession of the Prosecution. How can there be equality of arms in such a situation? How can the independence of the judiciary be upheld if the executive power interferes into the appeal process in such a way? \n\nThe FCO corrected the error on its website and wrote to Köchler on 27 August 2008:\"Ultimately, it will be for the Court to decide whether the material should be disclosed, not the Foreign Secretary.\"\n\nIn September 2008, following an application made at a closed hearing of the Appeal Court in Edinburgh, it was reported that a security-vetted Defence Counsel is to be appointed to examine the disputed document. The court's decision on the application has not been published but in a letter seen by BBC Scotland, FCO minister Kim Howells says it has decided to appoint a special defender. In a BBC interview, Hans Köchler criticised the development as \"intolerable\" and \"detrimental to the rule of law.\" Köchler said:\"In no country can the situation be allowed where the accused or the appellant is not free to have his own defence team, and instead someone is imposed upon him.\"\n\nOn 15 October 2008, five Scottish judges decided unanimously to reject a submission by the Crown Office that the scope of Megrahi's second appeal should be limited to the specific grounds of appeal that were identified by the SCCRC in June 2007. On 21 October 2008 Megrahi's lawyer, revealed that his client had been diagnosed with \"advanced stage\" prostate cancer. Despite the appeals of Jim Swire, that keeping Megrahi behind bars while he battled the disease \"would amount to exquisite torture\", the High Court ruled on 14 November 2008 that Megrahi should remain in jail while his appeal continued. In an article published on 29 December 2008 award-winning journalist and author, Hugh Miles, described the Lockerbie trial as an historic miscarriage of justice. The article concluded: \"If Megrahi didn't do it, who did?\" On 31 December 2008, Dr L. De Braeckeleer ended a 174-part series entitled Diary of a Vengeance Foretold. The article alleges that Iran ordered the bombing of Pan Am 103 in revenge for the downing of Iran Air Flight 655.\n\nIn January 2009, it was reported that, although Megrahi's second appeal against conviction was scheduled to begin on 27 April 2009, the hearing could last as long as 12 months because of the complexity of the case and volume of material to be examined.\n\nOn 18 August 2009, Megrahi dropped his appeal in light of his terminal prostate cancer.\n\nOn 20 August 2009, Scotland's Justice Minister, Kenny MacAskill, announced the release of Megrahi under terms of Scottish laws permitting the early release on compassionate grounds of prisoners with terminal illnesses. He had terminal prostate cancer. After his release from Greenock Prison in Scotland, Megrahi travelled in a white police van flanked by police cars to Glasgow Airport, where he boarded a special flight from Libya's Afriqiyah Airways. Megrahi flew home to Tripoli, Libya, accompanied by Saif al-Islam Gaddafi, son of the Libyan leader, Muammar Gaddafi and to a hero's welcome. He died in 2012. In May 2014 a group of relatives of the Lockerbie victims continued to campaign for al-Megrahi's name to be cleared by reopening the case.\n\nIn December 2014 the Lord Advocate, Frank Mulholland, said no Crown Office investigator or prosecutor had ever raised concerns about the evidence used to convict Megrahi. He also pledged to continue to track down Megrahi's accomplices.\n\nDr. Jim Swire, whose daughter Flora was killed in the bombing, and who\nhas been a spokesman for UK Families Flight 103, which represented\nBritish relatives, has stated that he believes Megrahi is innocent. Dr Swire is also concerned by comments attributed to the former lord advocate Lord Fraser, which appeared to doubt the credibility of a key prosecution witness, Tony Gauci.\n\nDr. Swire has stated that \"the scandal around Megrahi is not that a sick man was released, but that he was ever convicted in the first place. All I have ever wanted is to see the people who murdered my daughter are brought to justice.\"\n\nProfessor Robert Black of the University of Edinburgh, one of Scotland's top legal experts and the person who devised the non-jury trial that saw the Lockerbie case heard in 2000, has called al-Megrahi's murder conviction \"the most disgraceful miscarriage of justice in Scotland for 100 years\". Prof. Black said he felt \"a measure of personal responsibility\" for persuading Libya to allow Megrahi and his co-accused, Al-Amin Khalifa Fhima, who was acquitted, to stand trial under Scots law.\n\nIn 2007 Prof. Black has written that he is \"satisfied that not only was there a wrongful conviction [of al-Megrahi], but the victim of it was an innocent man. Lawyers, and I hope others, will appreciate this distinction.\"\n\nIn August 2011, Black claimed that the three judges at the trial of the Lockerbie bomber reached a guilty verdict \"contrary to the evidence\" because, \"consciously or subconsciously\", they were under pressure to convict from the then Lord Advocate (Scotland's leading legal official), Lord Boyd of Duncansby. Lord Boyd declared the allegations \"ludicrous\".\n\n\"The Sunday Times\" of 23 October 2005 reported that Lord Fraser of Carmyllie, who drew up the 1991 indictment against the two accused Libyans and issued warrants for their arrest, had now cast doubt upon the reliability of the main prosecution witness, Tony Gauci. Lord Fraser criticised the Maltese shopkeeper for \"inter alia\" being \"not quite the full shilling\" and an \"apple short of a picnic\".\n\nThe then Lord Advocate, Lord Boyd, reacted to the remarks, as follows:\nLord Boyd has asked Lord Fraser to clarify his apparent attack on Gauci by issuing a public statement of explanation.\n\nWilliam Taylor QC, who defended Megrahi at the trial and the appeal, said Lord Fraser should never have presented Gauci as a crown witness:\n\nTam Dalyell, former Labour MP who played a crucial role in organising the trial at Camp Zeist in the Netherlands, described Lord Fraser's remarks as an 'extraordinary development':\n\nGerard Sinclair, chief executive of the SCCRC, refused to say whether the Commission was investigating Lord Fraser's reported remarks. \"Any investigation we carry out we seek to do so as rigorously and as thoroughly as possible,\" he said.\n\nRobert Black, Professor Emeritus of Scots Law at the University of Edinburgh and a Lockerbie expert, described the alleged remarks as \"an indication that various people who have been involved in the Lockerbie prosecution are now positioning themselves in anticipation of the SCCRC holding that there was a \"prima facie\" miscarriage of justice, and sending it back for a fresh appeal.\"\n\nProfessor Hans Köchler, who was appointed as one of the UN observers by UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan, criticised the trial in his report and evaluation. Köchler observed that the trial had been politically influenced in breach of legal traditions and principles, such as the Rule of law. In an interview for the BBC on the day the first appeal was rejected, he described the court's decision as a \"spectacular miscarriage of justice\".\n\nIn a radio programme entitled \"Politics and justice: the Lockerbie trial\", which was broadcast on 9 September 2007 by Australia's ABC Radio National, Dr Köchler, Robert Black and Jim Swire expressed their views on the Lockerbie trial and the first appeal, and suggested what should happen next.\n\nIn the June 2008 edition of the Scottish lawyers' magazine \"The Firm\", Köchler referred to the 'totalitarian' nature of the ongoing second Lockerbie appeal process saying it \"bears the hallmarks of an 'intelligence operation'.\"\n\nSome general statistics:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312875", "title": "Direct-attached storage", "text": "Direct-attached storage\n\nDirect-attached storage (DAS) is digital storage directly attached to the computer accessing it, as opposed to storage accessed over a computer network (i.e. network-attached storage). Examples of DAS include hard drives, solid-state drives, optical disc drives, and storage on external drives. The name \"DAS\" is a retronym to contrast with storage area network (SAN) and network-attached storage (NAS).\n\nA typical DAS system is made of a data storage device (for example enclosures holding a number of hard disk drives) connected directly to a computer through a host bus adapter (HBA). Between those two points there is no network device (like hub, switch, or router), and this is the main characteristic of DAS.\n\nThe main protocols used for DAS connections are ATA, SATA, eSATA, NVMe, SCSI, SAS, USB, USB 3.0 and IEEE 1394.\n\nMost functions found in modern storage do not depend on whether the storage is attached directly to servers (DAS), or via a network (SAN and NAS).\n\nThe key difference between DAS and NAS is that DAS storage is only directly accessible from the host to which the DAS is attached. A DAS does not incorporate any network hardware and related operating environment to provide a facility to share storage resources independently. The storage presented by a DAS to a connected host can of course be shared by that host. A SAN (storage area network) has more in common with a DAS than a NAS with the key difference being that DAS is a 1:1 relationship between storage and host whereas SAN is many to many.\n\n\nEnglander, I. (2014). The architecture of computer hardware, systems software, & networking: An information technology approach (5th ed.). Retrieved from https://online.vitalsource. com/#/books/9781118803127\n"}
{"id": "2312890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312890", "title": "Monastery of Santa Cruz (Coimbra)", "text": "Monastery of Santa Cruz (Coimbra)\n\nThe Santa Cruz Monastery (English: Monastery of the Holy Cross, ), best known as \"Igreja (Church) de Santa Cruz\", is a National Monument in Coimbra, Portugal. Because the first two kings of Portugal are buried in the church it was granted the status of National Pantheon. Founded in 1131 outside the protecting walls of Coimbra, the Santa Cruz Monastery was the most important monastic house during the early days of the Portuguese monarchy. St. Theotonius founded this community of Canons Regular of the Holy Cross of Coimbra and served as their first prior. The monastery and church were erected between 1132 and 1223. The monastery was granted numerous papal privileges and royal grants, which allowed the accumulation of considerable wealth, at the same time as it consolidated its position on the politico-institutional and cultural scene. Its school, with its vast library, was highly respected in medieval times and was a meeting point for the intellectual and power elites. Its \"scriptorium\" was used for the consolidation of royal power by King Afonso Henriques, thus it was not considered strange that he decided to be buried there. \n\nNothing remains of the early Romanesque monastery. It is known that it had only one nave and a high tower in the façade, as typical of the Augustinian-Romanesque constructions, but none of those elements subsisted. In the first half of the 16th century, the Monastery was completely renovated by King Manuel's order, this monarch having assumed the Monastery tutelage.\n\nThe whole monastic complex, the church and the tombs of King Afonso Henriques and of his successor, King Sancho I, were rearranged and transferred to the main-chapel in 1530, where they still lie in a sculptural work by Nicolau Chanterene. The architect Diogo de Boitaca was responsible for the layout of the Manueline church and the chapter house with its basket-handled and ribbed ceilings. Marco Pires gave continuity to the work, with the completion of the church, the Capela de São Miguel (St. Michael's Chapel) and the Claustro do Silêncio (Cloister of Silence). The main portal, built between 1522 and 1525 under Chanterene, is the most emblematic piece of the whole monastic ensemble, harmonising the artistic elements of the Manueline with other features from Renaissance inspiration.\n\nThrough the whole 16th century, the most respected architects, sculptors, and painters worked at Santa Cruz de Coimbra, such as Diogo de Castilho, Machim and Jean of Rouen, Cristóvão de Figueiredo and Vasco Fernandes besides the already mentioned Chanterene, Boitaca and Diogo Pires the Younger. The sacristy dates back to the 17th century and keeps some notable 16th-century canvases.\n\nSaint Anthony of Lisbon, more widely known as Saint Anthony of Padua, was a member of the community of canons regular, and after his ordination, he was placed in charge of hospitality for the monastery. It was in this capacity that he welcomed the remains of the Franciscan protomartyrs, whose remains were being transported back to Assisi, after their deaths in Morocco. This led to his decision to leave the security and ease of the life of a canon for that of the newly founded Franciscans.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312894", "title": "Application essay", "text": "Application essay\n\nAn admissions or application essay, sometimes also called a personal statement or a statement of purpose, is an essay or other written statement written by an applicant, often a prospective student applying to some college, university, or graduate school. The application essay is a common part of the university and college admissions process.\n\nSome applications may require one or more essays to be completed, while others make essays optional or supplementary. Essay topics range from very specific to open-ended.\n\nThe University of Chicago is known for its unusual essay prompts in its undergraduate admissions application, including \"What would you do with a foot-and-a-half-tall jar of mustard\"?\n\nThe Common Application, used for undergraduate admissions by many American colleges and universities, requires a general admissions essay, in addition to any supplemental admissions essays required by member institutions. The Common Application offers students six admissions essay prompts from which to choose. All of the essays – and even the way you put things in order throughout the application – should be directed towards getting one \"big idea\", a personal thesis that will be remembered after the entire package is read. According to \"Uni in the USA\", the Common Application essay is intended as a chance to describe \"things that are unique, interesting and informative about yourself\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2312896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312896", "title": "Vince Flynn", "text": "Vince Flynn\n\nVincent Joseph Flynn (April 6, 1966 – June 19, 2013) was an American author of political thriller novels surrounding the story of the fictional assassin Mitch Rapp. He was a story consultant for the fifth season of the television series \"24\". He died on June 19, 2013, after three years with prostate cancer.\n\nFlynn was one of seven children born to Terry and Kathleen Flynn, and a graduate of Saint Thomas Academy (1984) and the University of St. Thomas with a B.A in Economics (1989).\n\nAfter graduating, Flynn went to work for Kraft Foods as an account and sales marketing specialist. In 1991, he left Kraft to pursue a career as an aviator with the United States Marine Corps. One week before leaving for Officer Candidate School, he was medically disqualified from the Marine Aviation Program.\n\nIn an effort to overcome the difficulties of dyslexia, Flynn forced himself into a daily writing and reading routine. His writing influences included Leon Uris, Tom Clancy, Ernest Hemingway, John Irving, Robert Ludlum, J.R.R. Tolkien, and Gore Vidal.\n\nHis newfound interest in such novels motivated him to begin work on a novel of his own. While employed as a bartender in the St. Paul area, he completed his first book, \"Term Limits\", which he then self-published.\n\n\"I had just finished reading \"The Government Racket: Washington Waste from A to Z\", by Martin L. Gross. It is without a doubt the most disheartening and enlightening book about politics that I've ever read. I was out jogging one day wondering what it would take to really change Washington, when my thoughts turned to a friend who had been shot and killed in Washington, D.C., several summers earlier. As I continued running, a story started to unfold.\" \n\nPocket Books published the hardcover edition of \"Term Limits\" in 1998, and the mass market paperback of \"Term Limits\" in 1999, which spent several weeks on The \"New York Times\" bestseller list. Subsequent works, including Flynn's 1999 novel, \"Transfer of Power\", his 2000 novel \"The Third Option\" and his 2001 novel \"Separation of Power\", also appeared on the \"New York Times\" bestseller list, with \"Separation of Power\" reaching as high as #7. \n\nFlynn's fifth novel, \"Executive Power\", was published in hardcover by Atria Books in May 2003, followed by his sixth novel, \"Memorial Day\" in 2004, his seventh novel \"Consent To Kill\" in October 2005, his eighth novel \"Act Of Treason\" in October 2006, his ninth novel \"Protect And Defend\" in 2007 and his tenth novel \"Extreme Measures\" in 2008. With the exception of his first novel \"Term Limits\", his works centered around counter-terrorism agent \"Mitch Rapp\". His 2008 release, \"Extreme Measures\", became the ninth novel in the series.\n\nFlynn wrote six \"New York Times\" bestsellers for Atria Books, and had a contract for four more. He remembered deciding between following the path that was the most uncomfortable—continuing with what looked to be a promising career as a commercial real estate leasing agent—or taking a big risk and start a new career as a writer: \"I look back on it now and I couldn't be happier with my decision, but at the time I remember a lot of people thought I was nuts.\"\n\nIn February 2008, Flynn agreed on film and book projects with CBS Corporation units CBS Films and Simon & Schuster/Atria Books. Lorenzo di Bonaventura was negotiating to produce \"Mitch Rapp\" films. The first film, \"American Assassin\", was released on September 15, 2017. Atria Books got worldwide rights to four books by the author. In August 2010, Flynn signed a two-book deal for a new series that he would have co-written with Brian Haig, a retired Army Lieutenant Colonel. He was a frequent guest on \"The Glenn Beck Radio Program\" on the Fox News Channel, and on Dan Barreiro's radio program on Twin Cities station KFAN.\n\nFlynn lived with his wife, Lysa, and their three children in the Twin Cities (Minneapolis-St. Paul) area.\n\nOn February 1, 2011, in his fan newsletter, Flynn announced that he was being treated for advanced Stage III prostate cancer. He died of a rare form of aggressive prostate cancer in Saint Paul, aged 47, on June 19, 2013.\n\nIn 1997, Flynn wrote \"Term Limits\" (not part of the \"Mitch Rapp\" series, but in the same universe).\n\nMitch Rapp, as portrayed by the author, is an undercover CIA counter-terrorism agent. Rapp's primary focus is thwarting terrorist attacks on the United States, and he is presented as an aggressive operative willing to take measures that are more extreme than might be considered commonly acceptable. His constant frustration with procedures and red tape is a major theme throughout the entire series.\n\nStarting in 2015 with \"The Survivor\", the \"Mitch Rapp\" series has been continued by Kyle Mills. The latest book in the series, \"Lethal Agent\", was released on September 24, 2019.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2312897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312897", "title": "Illinois Route 32", "text": "Illinois Route 32\n\nIllinois Route 32 (IL 32) is a north–south highway with its southern terminus at U.S. Route 40 and Illinois Route 33 in Effingham and its northern terminus at Illinois Route 48 at Cisco, a few hundred feet south of Interstate 72. Illinois 32 is long.\n\nIllinois 32 overlaps Illinois 33 from Shumway to Effingham, where Illinois 32 terminates and Illinois 33 continues east through Effingham to the Vincennes, Indiana area. Traveling north, Illinois 32 services Windsor, Sullivan, Lovington, and Cerro Gordo before reaching Cisco.\n\nSBI Route 32 was established in 1918 from the Decatur area (actually Cerro Gordo) to Windsor. In 1936 it was extended to Effingham, and in January 1998, it was extended north to Illinois 48.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312901", "title": "Olav Bjortomt", "text": "Olav Bjortomt\n\nStein Olav Bjortomt (born 13 December 1978 in Eastbourne) is an English international quiz player, four-time world champion (2003, 2015, 2018, 2019) and three time individual European champion (2010, 2014, 2015). He is the star player of the world's most successful quizzing club, Broken Hearts, with which he has won several European championships. As of 2018 he is one of the writers for the show \"The Chase\".\n\nIn contrast to the other two full-time professionals of Team England Pat Gibson and Kevin Ashman he has not done as well both in domestic competitions, with only a second place in the individual British championships 2007 to his credit (though he has won the pairs competition) and as a TV candidate, a second place in the \"Fifteen to One\" series of 2002 being his best result. He is of Norwegian and Filipino descent.\n\nHe was the winner of the inaugural 2003 individual World Quizzing Championships, when it was a fledgling event with then only 45 participants (now in the thousands) but won a second title in 2015. In 2009 he won three out of four possible European titles and was runner-up behind Kevin Ashman in the singles to become the most successful participant.\n\n\"Time Out\" described him in 2006 as a \"former child quiz prodigy and a rising star of the quiz world\".\n\nAfter his triumph at the very first World Quizzing Championship 2003 he did not win a medal at the world stage for twelve years, but always was Top 10. His absence at Ghent in 2004 (when England won the first European Championship) meant he was not selected for the national team until 2006. He should have played in 2007 but travel problems delayed his arrival at the event. Consequently, he has only latterly become a regular in the star-studded English national team (Ashman, Mark Bytheway and Pat Gibson). He is also part of the \"Broken Hearts\" ( with Ian Bayley, formerly David Stainer, replaced by Didier Bruyere and Mark Grant) quiz team which play in the QLL and have been European Club champions from 2007 to 2009. Bjortomt won the Pairs Championships with partner Stainer in 2009 and has won 21 international medals on aggregate (see medal table). He also holds the title \"British Quizzing Grandmaster\".\n\nBjortomt's success on TV has been rather moderate compared with that of his teammates in the national team, and he describes himself as a \"choker\" (see Q&A link).\n\nHe appeared on the quiz show \"Fifteen to One\" four times, finishing as a series runner-up in 2002.\n\nHe captained the University of Nottingham team to the quarter-finals in the 1999/2000 series of BBC's \"University Challenge\", and according to the credits of the show as of 2012, is currently a question setter. When he appeared on the Channel 4 quiz show \"Grand Slam\" in 2003, commentator James Richardson described him as the \"Wayne Rooney of the quiz world.\"\n\nIn 2007, Bjortomt competed in \"The National Lottery People's Quiz\" and was the first contestant to qualify for the grand final, answering 97 per cent of his questions correctly during the show.\n\nIn 2008, he appeared in the quiz programme \"Battle of the Brains\".\n\nOn 10 October 2008 he appeared on \"Mastermind\", scoring eight points on questions about West Indies Test cricket, and fourteen in the General Knowledge section, to finish in second place.\n\nIn 2008 and 2009 he unsuccessfully competed in \"Are You an Egghead?\", which attempts to find another player to join the existing team.\n\n\nIn 2001 Bjortomt was the winner of \"The Guardian\"&apos;s Student Feature writer of the Year award. He has a History degree from the University of Nottingham and a Postgraduate Diploma in Newspaper Journalism from Nottingham Trent University. He worked for \"The Times\" newspaper in London and has set the weekday Times2 quiz since July 2005 to the present day along with The Times Saturday quiz.\n\nAs of 2016 Bjortomt is a question setter for University Challenge and ITV daytime quiz show The Chase.\n\nHis parents are Norwegian and Filipino. He has two younger sisters and a younger brother.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312903", "title": "Harry Magdoff and espionage", "text": "Harry Magdoff and espionage\n\nSeveral allege that Harry Magdoff was among a number of persons inside the U.S. government used as information sources by Soviet intelligence. However, the allegation is disputed by several academics and historians asserting that Magdoff probably had no malicious intentions and committed no crimes.\n\nAn FBI file description says Magdoff and others were probed as part of \"a major espionage investigation spanning the years 1945 through 1959\" into a suspected \"Soviet spy ring which supposedly had 27 individuals gathering information from at least six Federal agencies. However, none of the subjects were indicted by the Grand Jury.\"\nA mass of previously unremarked materials collectively known as the Venona project was declassified by the U.S. government in 1995. Among these were Army decryptions of Soviet cables which revealed there to be some number of American citizens involved in espionage on behalf of the Soviet Union. Magdoff was among those investigated as a member of what was called the Perlo group.\n\nThe public accusation that Magdoff was working for Soviet intelligence was itself not new; it had originated with defector Elizabeth Bentley who provided this information to the FBI and later testified to that same effect in open hearings. Bentley told the FBI:\n\nVictor Perlo, leader of the group, asked if the material was going to \"Uncle Joe\" (Joseph Stalin, General Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union).\n\nThe Army Signals Intelligence Corp and the FBI conducted a thirty-eight-year investigation into communist espionage with mixed results. According to \"Counterintelligence Reader\", the Venona project confirms the accuracy of much of Bentley's testimony. Critics of Bentley point out that some of her claims were disputed at the time, and that the testimony of Bentley and others before various Congressional committees during the Red Scare was sometimes exaggerated or involved guilt by association assertions.\n\nAccording to \"A Counterintelligence Reader\", Magdoff was a member of the Perlo group. Magdoff was identified by Arlington Hall cryptographers in the Venona cables and by FBI counterintelligence investigators as being a possible Soviet information source using the cover name \"KANT\" as of 1944. The name \"KANT\" appears in declassified decryptions from New York to Moscow, dated 5, 13 and 30 May 1944. The first is described by the decrypters as being sent from Pavel Ivanovich Fedosimov in which he requests to \"telegraph a reply to No. 139 and advise about the possibility of a meeting with KANT.\"\n\nOn 13 May cable, \"MAYOR\", according to Arlington Hall counterintelligence Iskhak Abdulovich Akhmerov, reports on the first meeting Elizabeth Bentley had with the Perlo group for the purposes of obtaining secret government information to transmit to the Soviet Union. Magdoff's surname was transmitted in the clear. \n\nMagdoff at the time was ending a prolonged leave of absence due to a gall bladder operation was unsure of the type of material he could deliver. As a person targeted by Soviet intelligence as a potential recruit, or \"probationer\" in Soviet parlance, \"KANT\" was subject to a background check and a request was made for more information. The 30 May cable transmits personal histories for several members of the group.\n\nA number of U.S. government agencies (as well as locations within the U.S.) were also given cover names. In this case, \"DEPOT\" is said by NSA analysts to be code for the War Production Board, where Magdoff worked in the Statistics and Tools Divisions.\n\nIn Moscow the request was processed. Evidence was unearthed in the Comintern Archives in the late 1980s has Lt. General Pavel Fitin, head of KGB foreign intelligence operations, requesting of Comintern Secretary General Georgi Dimitrov, information to pursue Magdoff's recruitment. This document was published in a book by historians Harvey Klehr, John Earl Haynes, and Fridrikh Igorevich Firsov , and also in the memoirs of the Soviet Case Officer for Julius Rosenberg and Klaus Fuchs, Alexandre Feklisov, published in 2001.\n\nThe Moscow Center then responded to New York KGB headquarters on 25 February 1945 in Venona decrypt #179,180. The authors of \"Haunted Wood: Soviet Espionage in America\", researchers Allen Weinstein, currently Archivist of the United States, and ex-KGB Officer Alexander Vassiliev say cover name \"KANT\" was replaced with \"TAN\". Moscow Center expressed concern that knowledge of some persons being recruited was widely known among other CPUSA members, so it was not uncommon for code names to change. The code name \"TAN\" appears Anatoly Gorsky's Memo dated December 1948, a document from the KGB archives analyzed by Alexander Vassiliev. Gorsky was then a senior official of the Committee of Information (KI), the Soviet agency at the time supervising Soviet foreign intelligence. \n\nA top secret internal FBI memo dated 1 February 1956 from Assistant Alan H. Belmont to the Director and head of the FBI's Internal Security Section, L. V. Boardman, discusses the advantages and disadvantages of using Venona materials to prosecute suspects. In this memorandum, which remained classified forty-one years until the Moynihan Moynihan Commission on Government Secrecy obtained its release to the public in 1997, Boardman quotes the 13 May 1944 Venona transcript, which named several members of the Perlo group, including Magdoff. Though Belmont was of the opinion that Venona evidence could lead to successful convictions, it was ultimately decided, in consideration of compromising the Army Signals Intelligence efforts, that there would not be prosecutions. The memo also raises questions about the disclosure of classified information to unauthorized persons based upon an exception to the hearsay rule requiring expert testimony of cryptographers revealing their practices and techniques to identify specific code names. \n\n\nVictor Navasky, editor and publisher of \"The Nation\", has written an editorial highly critical of the interpretation of recent work on the subject of Soviet espionage, arguing that historians who rely too much on Venona material are guilty of using every individual mentioned in the cables as prima facie proof of their involvement in Soviet espionage.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312904", "title": "Paul Jones' Army", "text": "Paul Jones' Army\n\nPaul Jones' Army was a professional wrestling heel stable in the NWA's Jim Crockett Promotions in the mid-1980s led by manager Paul Jones. The group's primary storyline was against \"The Boogie Woogie Man\" Jimmy Valiant in a long running storyline between Jones and Valiant.\n\nPaul Jones formed Paul Jones' Army in the early 1980s in Jim Crockett Promotions to help him battle \"The Boogie Woogie Man\" Jimmy Valiant and his friends, Manny Fernandez, Wahoo McDaniel, Pez Whatley and Hector Guerrero. January 1984, Valiant was attacked by Paul Jones and The Assassins. They tied him to the wrestling ring ropes so that Jones could cut his beard off. This led to a grudge match (with hyped supershow called 'Boogie Man Jam '84' in Greensboro, North Carolina. For this match Dusty Rhodes in Valiant's corner was tied by a rope to Paul Jones. Valiant defeated Assassin II, who was unmasked and revealed as Hercules Hernandez. Due to the beard cutting attack, he feuded heavily with Paul Jones and his \"Army\" of wrestlers, from 1984 through to late 1986. This army of wrestlers included The Barbarian, Baron von Raschke, Teijo Khan, and The Assassins. During this three-year feud, Valiant received help from Héctor Guerrero and \"Raging Bull\" Manny Fernandez. Although Jimmy Valiant would lose a Loser Leaves Town Tuxedo Street Fight to Paul Jones at Starrcade 1984 in Greensboro, North Carolina the feud with Paul Jones stable continued, which would come to include Abdullah The Butcher. In 1985, Valiant and Ragin' Bull Manny Fernandez formed a team called \"B and B Connection\" (\"Boogie Woogie\" and \"Bull\"). In the spring of 1986 Pez Whatley turned on Valiant, cutting off his pony tail, later joining Jones' Army as Shaska Whatley. During The Great American Bash 1986 summer shows, Paul Jones adopted a military style look in his long feud with Valiant and labeled his stable of wrestlers \"The Army\". Valiant would beat Shaska Whatley in a hair vs hair match, but with outside interference lost a hair vs hair match to Paul Jones only weeks later. In the fall of 1986, The Ragin Bull Manny Fernandez, Valiant's best friend accepted Jones' money and turned on Valiant, starting a feud between the two. Paul Jones at this point shortened his army to his newly acquired tag team of Ragin Bull and Rick Rude. The war between Valiant and Paul Jones climaxed at Starrcade 1986 with Valiant putting up the hair of \"Big Mama\" against the hair of Paul Jones in a No DQ Match which Valiant won (while the Ragin Bull was placed in a cage above the ring).\n\n"}
{"id": "2312906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312906", "title": "Margaret Smith (Scottish politician)", "text": "Margaret Smith (Scottish politician)\n\nMargaret Smith (born 18 February 1961) is a Scottish Liberal Democrat politician. She is the former Member of the Scottish Parliament (MSP) for the Edinburgh West constituency, a seat she held from 1999 Scottish Parliament election until 2011 Scottish Parliament election. She was the Scottish Liberal Democrats Spokesperson for Education. She was the first openly lesbian MSP.\n\nAt the 2011 election, she lost her seat to the Scottish National Party's Colin Keir who won with a majority of 2,689. As the Liberal Democrats failed to win any seats on the Lothian regional list, Smith was not returned as an MSP. Her constituency seat was however won back in 2016 by the Liberal Democrats' Alex Cole-Hamilton.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312913", "title": "Kuje Science Primary School", "text": "Kuje Science Primary School\n\nKuje Science Primary School is a primary school in Kuje, Nigeria. After reconstruction funded largely by British Airways' charity program \"Change for Good\", it was re-opened in 2002 in a ceremony attended by President Olusegun Obasanjo. This event took place two days before the anniversary of the introduction of the most widely accepted human rights treaty in history; The United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. It has over 3,500 students.\n\n\"\"Kuje school is an excellent example of what a committed and generous public and private sector partnership can achieve,\"\" said Dr Christian Voumard, UNICEF Representative in Nigeria. \"\"It is the largest project funded by Change for Good in Africa and is yet another example of how private sector funds can be put to very good use within the public domain,\"\" he added. Basic amenities which are not available to many schools in the country include an electricity generator, a supply of clean water, and separate toilets for boys and girls. The school also has a library and a computer and science laboratory; offering a stark contrast to those facilities offered by the majority of schools in the country.\n\nUNICEF and British Airways hope that Kuje school will lead the way in influencing and spurring much needed changes to Nigeria's education system.\n\n\"\"We were very happy and eager to work with UNICEF on this initiative,\"\" said Steven Harrison, British Airways' manager in Nigeria. \"\"We are delighted that through the highly successful Change for Good program, we have rebuilt this school, which is certain to make a positive contribution to the education of thousands of Nigerian children.\"\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2312915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312915", "title": "An Kyong-ho", "text": "An Kyong-ho\n\nAn Kyong-ho (born January 18, 1930) is a North Korean politician. \n\nHe was born in Gangwon, and is a graduate of Kim Il-sung University in Pyongyang. He currently serves as the Chief Director of the Committee for the Peaceful Reunification of the Fatherland. He first entered international news in 1988, when he attended South-North preparatory talks. He was a delegate to the 9th and 11th sessions of the Supreme People's Assembly, held in 1990 and 2003.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312918", "title": "An Min-chol", "text": "An Min-chol\n\nAn Min-chol is a North Korean politician and bureaucrat. He was a delegate to the 10th and 11th sessions of the Supreme People's Assembly. In addition, he serves at the general manager of the Sŏwŏn Cooperative Farm Committee in Pŏng-gun, South Hwanghae Province.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312919", "title": "An Myong-ok", "text": "An Myong-ok\n\nAn Myong-ok is a North Korean politician. He served as a delegate to all sessions of the Supreme People's Assembly, from the 8th in 1986 to the 11th in 2003.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312920", "title": "Holy Cross Monastery", "text": "Holy Cross Monastery\n\nHoly Cross Monastery can refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2312921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312921", "title": "An Yong-hyon", "text": "An Yong-hyon\n\nAn Yong-hyon is a North Korean politician. He served as a delegate to the 10th and 11th sessions of the Supreme People's Assembly, held in 1998 and 2003.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312922", "title": "Pae Tal-jun", "text": "Pae Tal-jun\n\nPae Tal-jun (born 1936) is a high-ranking North Korean politician and bureaucrat. He currently serves as Minister of State Construction Control and as Chairman of the Central Committee of the Korean Union of Architects. He was appointed to the Ministerial post in 1998 by the 10th Supreme People's Assembly, at which he was also a delegate. \n\nPae also served as a delegate to the Assembly's 11th session in 2003. In 2004, he was awarded the Order of Kim Il-sung.\n\nPae is a graduate of Bratislava University of Czechoslovakia. He began his career as a city planner in Pyongyang in 1966, becoming a vice chairman of the State Construction Committee in 1983.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312932", "title": "Chicago Spire", "text": "Chicago Spire\n\nThe Chicago Spire was a skyscraper project in Chicago that was partially built between 2007 and 2008 before being cancelled. Located at 400 N. Lake Shore Drive, it would have stood high with 150 floors and been the tallest building in the Western Hemisphere. When originally proposed as the Fordham Spire in July 2005, the design had 116 stories, included a hotel and condominiums, and was topped with a broadcast antenna mast. The building was designed and spearheaded by Spanish architect-engineer Santiago Calatrava and Chicago developer Christopher T. Carley of the Fordham Company. On March 16, 2006, the Chicago Plan Commission unanimously approved the initial design of the building. On November 4, 2014, a court ruling brought the original development plan and the extended litigation over the nine-year-old project to a close. Developer Garrett Kelleher signed over the property location to the project's biggest creditor, Related Midwest, who announced that they would not build the Spire and released their plans for the site.\n\nChristopher T. Carley of the Fordham Company proposed the Fordham Spire in July 2005. In the proposal the Spire was to be a 116-story structure with hotel and condominiums topped by a tall broadcast antenna mast. . The initial design of the building was passed unanimously by the Chicago Plan Commission on March 16, 2006, and by the Chicago Zoning Committee on March 23, 2006. On March 29, 2006, the Chicago City of Council also approved the building's design. As part of the approval process, the council passed a measure that raised the height limit on structures at the site to accommodate the design height. The Fordham Spire would have become the second tallest building in the entire world, surpassed only by the Burj Khalifa, and would have become the tallest freestanding structure as well as the tallest building in the Western Hemisphere, surpassing the CN Tower in Toronto.\n\nThe building was designed by Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava and was being developed by Garrett Kelleher of Shelbourne Development Group, Inc., the then-owner of the St Patrick's Athletic FC.\n\nChicago Mayor Daley said he approved of the design, stating that it was environmentally friendly. Burton F. Natarus, who was the 42nd-ward alderman when the building was announced, said, \"This is a very unique opportunity for the city of Chicago. This building belongs to Chicago and should be in Chicago.\" Donald Trump immediately voiced opposition to the building, stating that the tall structure would be a target for terrorists and did not even seem to be a viable project. \n\nAfter several months of development in 2005, Carley failed to obtain sufficient financing for the construction of the building. Irish developer Garrett Kelleher, executive chairman of Shelbourne Development Group, Inc., acquired the land and took over the project. It was announced that he would put up 100% of the equity, something Carley had been unable to do. He also had the financial backing to acquire the land, something Carley lacked. Kelleher stated he would consider using Carley's services on the development and that \"Carley will be paid an unspecified sum for his involvement in the deal so far.\" Kelleher later renamed the project \"Chicago Spire\" after briefly going by \"400 North Lake Shore Drive\", as it was no longer a Fordham project.\n\nIn the final quarter of 2006, Shelbourne Development issued two separate press releases regarding the construction and design of the spire. A November 2006 press release stated that construction of the Chicago Spire would begin in June 2007. In early December 2006, Shelbourne Development issued another press release stating that the design of the building had been revised. This included the removal of the hotel and the antenna mast, making the building consist solely of condominium units. The design change altered the building design such that it was wider than the original plan. Additionally, the spire no longer tapered at the top, resulting in an increase in floor space and overall floor count. The revision also removed the separate parking structure from the original plan, instead incorporating underground parking into the spire itself. This first major redesign of the Chicago Spire was criticized by architectural critics and city officials.\n\nIn late December 2006, the \"Chicago Tribune\" reported that the developer was soliciting opinions on a further revision from community leaders. Several weeks following that report the \"Chicago Tribune\" held an exclusive interview with architect Santiago Calatrava and lead developer Garrett Kelleher. During the interview, Calatrava drew out design ideas restoring the rotating design of the building and showcasing his vision for the Chicago Spire's lobby. On March 26, 2007, further revisions were shown during a public presentation by Shelbourne Development showcasing the most recent design.\n\nFollowing the March 26, 2007 public presentation by Shelbourne Development, residents showed a favorable reaction to the newest design of the Chicago Spire. The Chicago Plan Commission approved the final plans of the Chicago Spire on April 19, 2007. Chicago's zoning committee also approved the tower on April 26 and, on May 9, 2007, the Chicago City Council approved the final design of the Chicago Spire.\n\nBy June 2008, Shelbourne had sold more than 350 of the 1,193 units—more than half of those to foreign investors in markets where certain United States Securities and Exchange Commission regulations do not apply. Shelbourne announced on September 30, 2008 that the building's penthouse had been sold to Beanie Babies manufacturer Ty Warner. Kelleher offered to rent out units at a guaranteed 7.5% return to spur sales. The approach is common outside the United States where the tower was marketed more heavily and was meant to spur sales of the smallest units, which are the most likely to be purchased as rental property investments by foreigners.\n\nBy October 2008, the late-2000s recession was beginning to affect the project. Construction was suspended and the tower's architect, Santiago Calatrava, placed an $11.34 million lien on the construction site, stating that Kelleher had not yet paid him for his work. Within a few months Anglo Irish Bank, the primary lender for the project, was on the brink of financial collapse. The bank's stocks had lost nearly all of their value and Anglo Irish Bank was facing nationalization. Due to the bank's dire financial situation, Shelbourne Development was forced to suspend construction, and would eventually have to pay back the $69.5 million (USD) it had already borrowed.\n\nAdditional litigation and liens threatened the project by Autumn 2009. The owner of the NBC Tower in Chicago sued to evict Shelbourne Development from their sales office, where extensive modeling of Chicago Spire units had been installed. The lawsuit alleged that Shelbourne was behind $316,000 (USD) in lease payments. In addition to this and other liens listed on the property, Bank of America filed a lawsuit against Shelbourne Development for $4.92 million (USD). The lawsuit was an attempt to collect that sum on two unpaid loans used for initial construction at the Chicago Spire site.\n\nAfter these setbacks, the AFL-CIO and Kelleher announced in late 2009 that they were discussing the potential for a $170 million (USD) land loan that would retire Kelleher's loan from Anglo Irish Bank, pay off the outstanding liens, and restart work in exchange for making the construction a complete union job. Due to the lack of construction and the sluggish economy, Chicago unions were desperate to find work for their employees as they faced near 30% unemployment. Construction of the Chicago Spire would have provided approximately 900 full-time jobs to union members for four years if construction had resumed. In addition to the $194 million (USD) that Kelleher has invested personally in the project already, backup financing of an unspecified amount and from an unknown source in the form of mezzanine capital and bridge loans has been guaranteed and would have kicked in automatically if the $170 million (USD) AFL-CIO loan had been secured.\n\nBut within weeks of the official announcement that Kelleher was searching for union bailouts, four major labor union investment funds declined to offer Shelbourne Development any loans. Kelleher continued to search for financing. Shelbourne Development faced eviction from its offices on the 50th floor of 111 South Wacker Drive on which Shelbourne owed $27,600 in unpaid rent. Earlier in the year, the spire's Chicago sales office had been ejected from the nearby NBC Tower.\n\nIn October 2010 Anglo Irish Bank Corp. filed a $77 million foreclosure lawsuit against Kelleher, claiming that loans made to Kelleher's development company had been in default for a year. The bank was expected to take possession of the site. By the end of the year, courts handed control of the site to a receiver, leaving the project (at the time) dead. In addition, two Chicago firms purchased the tax lien certificates on the property.\n\nIn 2013, with the Chicago Spire site for sale by Ireland's National Asset Management Agency (NAMA), interest resumed, drawing in at least a half-dozen offers for the property. Under the involuntary bankruptcy ruling in October 2013, Shelbourne had until the end of March 2014 to obtain approval of a reorganization plan, and was considering a bid to take back control of the property, reigniting hope that the skyscraper might actually be built.\n\nIn February 2014, Shelbourne sought court approval to take up an offer of up to $135 million from Atlas Apartment Holdings intended to underpin the project's emergence from bankruptcy, with a deadline of August 31, 2014 for having a court-approved reorganization plan. At a hearing on March 11, 2014, Shelbourne announced that it had reached agreement on a repayment plan with the project's creditors, including Related Midwest, which had bought up much of the project's debt. Assuming the project finds funding to satisfy that agreement, Atlas said that the building would be built and that Atlas would control the project, but that Kelleher would still be the developer, with the intention of building the same building planned prior to the suspension of construction.\n\nHowever, on October 31, 2014, the developer failed to make a required payment to Related Midwest and Related filed suit to compel Shelbourne to turn over the deed to the property. On 4 November 2014, Garrett Kelleher signed over the property located at 400 N. Lake Shore Drive to Related Midwest. President Curt Bailey said that Related Midwest would not build the Spire.\n\nIn early 2018, the former developer Garrett Kelleher launched a $1.2 billion (USD) lawsuit, in the US Federal District Court in Illinois, against NAMA alleging that the agency destroyed his chances of building the Chicago Spire through a combination of \"sheer spite\" and \"consistent incompetence\". The lawsuit is formally brought by Kelleher's company, Shelbourne North Water Street Corporation.\n\nIn 2016, \"Crain's Chicago Business\" reported that Related Midwest had hired former SOM architect Michael Pfeffer to guide the design of developments on the former Chicago Spire site. Although President Curt Bailey disclosed no project details—such as whether, for example, Related Midwest plans to build one big tower or multiple structures on the site—he did announce the development firm's intent to discuss plan outlines with the public in 2017.\n\nIn 2018, it was revealed that Related Midwest will build two skyscrapers at the site of the Spire. The taller of the two would include 300 condominiums and a 175-room luxury hotel and the other 550 apartments. Chicago city officials rejected the two towers development plan in October 2018.\n\nThe skyscraper was being constructed at 400 N. Lake Shore Drive, on Chicago's waterfront west of Navy Pier and northeast of the Loop, in the Streeterville neighborhood of the Near North Side community area. The site is at the junction of Lake Michigan and the Chicago River, and is bordered by the Ogden Slip of the Chicago River to the north, North Lake Shore Drive to the east, the Chicago River to the south, and existing residential property to the west. The site was originally zoned for two 35 to 50-story buildings. Originally, it was to be sold by a joint venture of LR Development Company of Chicago and JER Partners of Virginia for $64 million to Christopher Carley of the Fordham Company. After numerous short-term extensions, and later Carley's failure to obtain financing, Kelleher of Shelbourne Development purchased the land instead and pledged to finance the rest of the project.\n\nWhen the project was first announced, the Fordham Company pledged almost $500,000 to assist in the development of the city's proposed DuSable Park, which would adjoin the property of the Chicago Spire. DuSable Park would cover and a $11.4 million budget was planned for its renovation. On March 26, 2007, Shelbourne pledged to pay $6 million toward the development of the park, making up the deficit left over from the city's own initial pledge of $6 million and far exceeding the Fordham Co's initial offer. In May 2007 Shelbourne's pledge jumped to $9.6 million. Soil tests performed in December 2000 on the soil of the proposed park showed contamination of radioactive thorium. Thorium was used by the Lindsay Light Company, which operated a location nearby. After the closing of the location in the 1930s, contaminated soil was dumped on the location of the proposed park. In March 2003, the Chicago Park District stated that the thorium clean-up on that land was incomplete. Hazards of contamination can be avoided by laying a minimum of of concrete over any affected soil, an approach that would be more feasible for the site of the Chicago Spire than for the adjacent park.\n\nIn 2012 the Chicago Park District received funding from the EPA for remediation of the site, bagging the radioactive soil and shipping it to a Superfund site. By summer 2013 the Park District website reported the remediation had been completed by September 2012.\n\nAs with many of his designs, Calatrava was inspired by themes and designs in nature for the tall, twisting skyscraper. He likened the structure to an imaginary smoke spiral coming from a campfire near the Chicago River lit by Native Americans indigenous to the area, and also related the building's newly designed pinnacle to the \"graceful\" and \"rotating forms\" of a snail shell.\n\nStanding at , the Chicago Spire would have further transformed the always-growing Chicago skyline. Plans for the tower included 1,193 condominiums with each of the building's 150 stories rotated 2.4 degrees from the one below it for a total 360-degree rotation. In February 2008, prices for the condominiums were announced as ranging from $750,000 to US$40 million. For supplemental structural support, each floor was to be surrounded by cantilevered corners and four concave sides. Similar to the Willis Tower (formerly Sears Tower) and John Hancock Center observation decks, the Chicago Spire design included a community room on the top floor offering residents a view of four U.S. states. The design for the soaring four story lobby of the skyscraper included translucent glass walls framed by arching, steel-reinforced concrete vaults. The building has been described as a giant \"drill bit\" by the public and others in the media have likened it to a \"tall twisting tree\" and a \"blade of grass\".\n\nThe curved design offered two major benefits to the structure of the building. First, curved designs, such as that found in Calatrava's Turning Torso in Malmö, Sweden, tend to add to the strength of a structure. A similar principle has been used in the past with curved stadium roofs. In addition to structural support, the curved face of the exterior would minimize wind forces. In rectangular buildings, a fluid wind flow puts pressure on the windward face of the building; while air moves around it, a suction is applied to the leeward face. This often causes a sway in tall buildings usually counteracted, at least partially, by stiffening the structure or by using a dynamic wind damper. Since the curved design of the Chicago Spire would not completely negate wind forces, a tapering concrete core and twelve shear walls radiating from it were planned to counteract the remaining wind load.\n\nAdditionally, the Chicago Spire was designed with world-class sustainable engineering practices to meet Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design Gold recognition. Sustainable features included recycled rainwater, river water used for cooling, ornithologically-sensitive glass to protect migratory birds, intelligent building and management systems, waste storage and recycling management, and monitored outdoor air delivery.\n\nFollowing the city approval, it was announced that construction of the Chicago Spire was to begin in the summer of 2007, with caisson work scheduled to begin as early as June 2007. DuSable Park was designated as a staging area for the construction of the tower. The sales center for the Chicago Spire opened on January 14, 2008.\n\nOn September 19, 2008, a spokeswoman for the developer announced that construction was continuing on the building, but that the pace of construction would be slowed until the financial markets recovered from the subprime mortgage crisis. Kelleher promised that he still had financial backing, although analysts questioned the ability of the project to survive the current economic decline. A contractor to build the building's superstructure had not yet been named. The October 1, 2008 edition of \"The Wall Street Journal\" said that the building foundation was complete and the above ground construction would not continue until the markets recover. The Spire has remained a fenced-off hole in the ground at 400 N. Lake Shore Drive since 2008. But before Shelbourne faced financial difficulties and was forced into bankruptcy, about 370 of the planned 1,200 luxury condos were sold, half of which were to people outside the U.S., according to the suit.\n“Shelbourne remains the only person logically capable of completing it because it still owns the intellectual property necessary to construct it and it still maintains the goodwill of the diverse governmental and community interests without which a project of this dimension would be doomed,” the lawsuit states.\n\nCrane parts and construction equipment arrived at the site on June 25, 2007. The following day Shelbourne Development officially announced the first construction contract. In preparation for construction, 34 concrete and steel caissons were drilled into bedrock underground; this was completed June 25, 2008. A cofferdam with a diameter and depth was installed to create a work environment and would have later acted as a foundation for the building's core. Utility upgrades were planned for the surrounding neighborhood.\n\n\nNotes\nFurther reading\n"}
{"id": "2312937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312937", "title": "WPHI-FM", "text": "WPHI-FM\n\nWPHI-FM (103.9 FM, \"Hip Hop 103.9\") is a commercial FM radio station licensed to serve Jenkintown, Pennsylvania. The station is owned by Urban One through licensee Radio One Licenses, LLC and broadcasts an urban contemporary format. Studios are located in Bala Cynwyd, and the broadcast tower used by the station is located in the Roxborough section of Philadelphia at (). The station has always been short-spaced due to adjacent channel interference from WMGM in Atlantic City, WXCY in Havre de Grace, Maryland, and WNNJ in Newton, New Jersey (all located on 103.7 FM), WAEB-FM in Allentown and WNNK in Harrisburg (both located on 104.1 FM), as well as WRFF (104.5 FM), and co-channel interference from WRCN on Long Island and WNBM in Bronxville, New York. As such, the station broadcasts at only 270 watts, making it the weakest station broadcasting from the Roxborough tower farm.\n\n103.9 originally started out on November 1, 1960 as WIBF-FM, which was owned by Fox Broadcasting, not related to the more recent Fox Broadcasting Company television network. The call letters stood for the station's owners — brothers William and Irwin Fox and their father Benjamin Fox, a local real estate developer.\n\nIn the 1960s and 1970s, the station featured a format of MOR, big bands, Dixieland jazz and the area's first FM country music show, plus religious and ethnic programs. By the mid-1970s, the station switched to religious and ethnic programming during the day and Spanish music at night. The Barry Reisman Show, featuring Jewish music and programming, was broadcast during the afternoon drive time from 1969 through the station's sale in 1992. In 1965, the station picked up a television sister in WIBF-TV, channel 29 (now WTXF-TV, a station coincidentally owned by the Fox Broadcasting Company).\n\nThe station sold by the Fox family in October 1992 by Jarad Broadcasting, and on November 9, 1992, at Midnight, WDRE from Garden City, New York started simulcasting its programming with WIBF-FM, and shortly after the simulcast began, WIBF's branding was changed to \"103.9 WDRE\" to match the New York station. The simulcasting was part of a large effort by Jarad called \"The Underground Network\", a network consisting of seven stations from across the country simulcasting WDRE. In 1995, the network ceased operations, WDRE in New York would change its call letters back to WLIR, and made WIBF-FM in Philadelphia an independent, local modern rock station; WIBF-FM then changed its own callsign to WDRE - \"We DaRE to be Different\" - to match its branding.\n\nWDRE was branded as \"Philly's Modern Rock\". \"Alive\" by Pearl Jam was the first song played on WDRE.\n\nThe station helped launch the careers of many famous disc jockeys and local personalities. They include Preston Elliot and Steve Morrison of the Preston and Steve morning show on WMMR, Bret Hamilton of WCAU-TV, Marilyn Russell (formerly of Y100, WXPN, WMGK, now on WOGL), Jim McGuinn (also known as Rumor Boy), the former Program Director of WPLY (now currently programming KCMP in the Twin Cities), and Mel \"Toxic\" Taylor, who went on to WYSP.\n\nVeteran DJ Mel \"Toxic\" Taylor (formerly of WPST and WIFI) was the first DJ hired for the only 2 local shows that would be live from Philadelphia each week.\nWhen WDRE Philadelphia became a local radio station in 1995, talent was hired from within the city (e.g. Bret Hamilton, formerly of WIOQ) and outside of the city. While WDRE never became a true mainstream radio station in the Philadelphia radio market due to its weak signal, the station gained a cult status in the Philadelphia area, and as a result, events like the station's music festival (known as \"DREfest\") sold out to a crowd of over 25,000 people.\n\nHowever, in December 1996, Radio One bought WDRE from Jarad, and on the 16th of that month, WDRE announced that the station would flip to a then-undisclosed format in February 1997.\n\nDue to the informed notice of the station's flip, the staff at WDRE were able to organize a concert called \"Bitterfest\", which was to be held at The Electric Factory. The concert featured local acts G Love and the Fun Lovin' Criminals, and was created to celebrate the life of WDRE as a local institution for modern rock. On February 7, 1997, \"Bitterfest\" was held to a sold-out crowd of over 3,000 people, with all of the WDRE staff present at the event. At Midnight on February 8, 1997, as the crowd at Bitterfest chanted \"'D-R-E! 'D-R-E! 'D-R-E!\", a lucky (or unlucky) listener was selected to \"pull the plug\" on WDRE, with the station ending with the first song that started the format: Pearl Jam's \"Alive\". Two of the WDRE disc jockeys (Preston Eliot, Bret Hamilton) went to Y100, as did 'DRE Program Director Jim McGuinn, and midday and Sunday night DJ Marilyn Russell (as Promotions Director for Y100). Y100 was also bought out by Radio One in 2000, and flipped in 2005 to urban contemporary.\n\n\n\nOn February 10, 1997, after a weekend of stunting with classic soul music, the station flipped to Urban Contemporary, branded as \"Philly 103.9.\" The call letters were soon changed to WPHI. When the station rebranded as The Beat in April 2002, it shifted to rhythmic top 40. By 2006, Radio & Records/Nielsen BDS moved it to the urban contemporary panel, but Mediabase followed suit in 2011, completing the rhythmic to urban shift.\nOn February 27, 2005, Radio One moved the \"Beat\" format to the 100.3 frequency, which was formerly Y100. 103.9 then flipped to urban gospel, branded as \"Praise 103.9\". The callsign was changed to WPPZ-FM on March 3.\n\nExcept for \"The Yolanda Adams Morning Show\" and CeCe McGhee weekday afternoons, the station ran jockless throughout the day until August 2007. In late August, the addition of performer Lonnie Hunter from Chicago was made to be the mid-day personality along with Sheik Meah. Famous speaker Les Brown was also added to be on Sunday nights from 7–9pm. In September, Pastor Alan E. Waller joined the staff to do a Saturday morning show from 10–11am and two more weekend shows were added. The \"Holy Hip-Hop Show\" was added on Saturday nights from 7–9pm and a Christian dating show was added on Sundays from 9–11pm.\n\nWPPZ's current staff includes Lonnie Hunter, Brother Marcus, and CeCe Magee. Former DJs include Church Lady (2007–2008), Ed Long (2005–2007), CoCo Brother (2011–2013), and Les Brown and B.I.G. C.I.T.Y. (2008–2009; 2009–present).\n\nOn September 27, 2016, at Midnight, WPPZ and WPHI swapped frequencies, with \"Praise\" moving to 107.9 FM, and \"Boom\" moving to 103.9 FM (it also marked the return of the WPHI call letters to the frequency that originated the call letters). With the change, WPHI's classic hip hop format shifted to urban contemporary; the classic hip hop songs have been reduced to just a few per hour, with the station now emphasizing currents and recurrents. This marks the fourth attempt by Radio One to compete against long dominant WUSL.\n\nEight months after WPHI's format switch, WISX flipped to a classic hip hop-leaning rhythmic AC on June 30, 2017.\n\nOn December 24, 2019, WPHI rebranded as \"Hip Hop 103.9\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312941", "title": "Enterprise (train service)", "text": "Enterprise (train service)\n\nEnterprise is the cross-border inter-city train service between in the Republic of Ireland and in Northern Ireland, jointly operated by Iarnród Éireann (IE) and NI Railways (NIR). It operates on the Belfast–Dublin railway line.\n\nThe Great Northern Railway (Ireland) (GNR(I)) introduced the service as the \"Enterprise Express\" on Monday 11 August 1947 in an attempt to compete with air and road transport which were challenging the railways. In particular, business travel was and is an important market. Customs checks were limited to the Belfast and Dublin terminals to reduce journey times by ensuring that journeys were non-stop, and advance booking was available. The name of the train comes from the \"enterprising\" approach that the GNR(I) took to make journeys more convenient for passengers despite the requirement for customs checks. The initial service ran between and Dublin Amiens Street (renamed in 1966). Locomotives of GNRI Class V were initially used, followed in 1948 by GNRI Class VS.\n\nIn October 1950 the service was extended to Glanmire Road station (renamed to Cork Kent in 1966) in Cork. This proved unsuccessful and ceased in September 1953 when the governments of the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland nationalised the GNR as the Great Northern Railway Board (GNRB). The Cork service's unpopularity may also have been due to the six-and-a-half-hour journey time.\n\nOn Wednesday 1 October 1958 the GNRB was dissolved and its assets and liabilities were split between Córas Iompair Éireann (CIÉ) and the Ulster Transport Authority (UTA) — the predecessors of Iarnród Éireann (IÉ) and Northern Ireland Railways (NIR) respectively. Following the completion of the Belfast Central Line Project, which involved the relaying of track along the route of the former Belfast Central Railway, the Belfast terminal moved to the newly constructed Belfast Central station in April 1976. The new station was named after the former railway and was located some distance from Belfast City Centre, adjacent to the city's markets. (The name was a source of confusion to tourists and was eventually renamed to in 2018).\n\nThe service was upgraded in September 1997 with a new timetable and new coaching stock from French train makers De Dietrich Ferroviaire (now Alstom DDF). At this point the service, which had operated under either the IÉ or NIR brands, was branded separately as Enterprise.\n\nThe service has suffered disruption, particularly during the Troubles when it was regularly halted by bomb threats. These became so frequent and caused such considerable disruption to the service that a campaigning group, the Peace Train Organisation was formed in 1989. Since the Northern Ireland peace process however, such disruption has diminished. Renewed investment in recent years has seen the line upgraded to continuously welded track capable of running along the southern part of the route, as part of Iarnród Éireann's rail network upgrades. The Northern Ireland section of the line was also upgraded to 90 mph running on many sections of the line.\n\nJourney times vary between 2 hours 5 minutes (with four intermediate stops) and 2 hours 20 minutes (with six intermediate stops), with an average speed of respectively.\n\nThe Railway Preservation Society of Ireland runs a steam Enterprise in the summer months to exchange its Dublin-based engine with its Whitehead-based engine.\n\nOn Friday 21 August 2009 of the Broadmeadow estuary viaduct, north of Malahide, collapsed, causing serious disruptions to Enterprise services. During the disruption the Enterprise operated between Lanyon Place and Drogheda, with buses connecting Drogheda with Dublin Connolly. The line reopened on Monday 16 November with full services resumed.\n\nThe Enterprise underwent a face-lift during 2009, with the carriages being resprayed in silver with green livery, some of which could be seen at Translink's York Road Maintenance Depot.\n\nIn 2014, a mid-life refurbishment programme was announced for the Enterprise service. Rotating refurbishment involved substituting non-Enterprise trainsets on an individual basis which began in November 2014 with a return to service of the first revamped coaches in November 2015. Refurbishment provided new mechanical running gear, in coach electronics and modernised interiors. The first refurbished set, consisting of DVT 9002 and Locomotive 206, operated a trial service from York Road Depot in Belfast to Dublin Connolly and back, on Thursday 15 October 2015. The same set operated its first official passenger service after its refurbishment on Monday 16 November 2015. The refurbishment was officially completed on 10 April 2016, to coincide with the introduction of an enhanced Enterprise timetable.\n\nPassengers can travel \"First Plus\" or \"Enterprise Class\". Additional to a trolley service there is a \"Café Bar\" serving alcohol, soft drinks, tea & coffee and hot and cold snacks. The seating in the Cafe Bar is the same as the other rail seats, with the same tables.\n\nFirst Plus comes with more leg room, reclining seats, tinted windows with blinds, complementary newspapers (on most services the two main Belfast papers but on occasion the Irish Independent and Irish Times will be available).\nFood in First Plus comes via a full three-course menu serving breakfast (before 12pm), lunch and dinner (after 12pm). Tea and Coffee from this menu come with complementary refills. First plus is also significantly quieter as it is rare for either First Plus carriage to be full to capacity. A member of the train crew checks passengers tickets at the door to the first plus carriages, since many people are unaware there are two classes of carriage on the train.\n\nBoth classes have air conditioning vents designed into the rim of the window frames and free wifi supplied by NI railways. The WiFi is limited to 150MB of data each day per device. A glass display is atop the door of every carriage showing an analogue clock face with the current time, the destination station, the next station, and any other information may be scrolled down the bottom of the display. Approximately 3 minutes from every stop the computer will announce \"\"we are now approaching (station name)\"\" to give passengers enough time to gather their belongings before disembarking. Since the Enterprise brand aims to be politically neutral, there are no Irish Rail or NI Railways logos inside or outside the train, only Enterprise specific branding, all announcements are made only in English and not in Irish, and all items available for purchase are dual priced in Pounds Sterling as well as in Euros (exchange rate of €1.30-€1.40 per £1 depending on product regardless of actual exchange rate). Payments made by card are charged in Pounds Sterling. Both classes include dedicated areas for wheelchair users.\n\nEach Push–pull trainset consists of seven coaches and a 201 Class locomotive. The 28 carriages were delivered as four sets of seven but entered service as three sets of eight, with two locomotives from each operator. The coaches were manufactured by De Dietrich Ferroviaire, while the locomotives are from GM-EMD; ownership of the rolling stock is shared between both operators, with carriage maintenance by NIR and locomotives maintained by IE. The coaching stock is based on the Class 373 EMU stock used by Eurostar, with the interiors identical. The EMU stock is articulated and permanently coupled, but the Enterprise is ordinary coaching stock.\n\nThe service had suffered from a lack of reliability of the locomotives, which provide head end power to the train. Unlike IÉ's Dublin-Cork services, which operate with the locomotive operating with a generator control car that provides power for lighting and heating the train, the Enterprise fleet was only equipped with an ordinary control car, which had no power generating capability. This meant that the locomotive had to provide all the power for the train, both motive and generating. Extended operation in this mode caused damage, so four further locomotives were allocated to Enterprise from the IÉ fleet. However, this still required locomotives to be used in HEP mode, so in May 2009 the Minister for Regional Development in Northern Ireland requested an estimate for the provision of generator functions for the existing rolling stock so that head-end power mode would no longer be needed.\n\nIn order to avoid further problems, a modified Mark 3 Generator van, formerly 7604, was introduced on Monday 10 September 2012. Three further such generator vans have since entered service.\n\nIf an Enterprise set is unavailable, either a NIR or an IÉ set can be used. Both NIR and IÉ have equipped six each of their newest DMUs (3000, 4000 and 29000) and ten 22000 Class DMUs to each other's specifications so they may be used in the event of a breakdown.\n\nThe Enterprise has many characteristic features. The formation of the train is: DVT with First Plus, First Plus, buffet carriage, four standard carriages, a Mark 3 Generator Van and a 201 Class locomotive, with the locomotive at the Belfast end and the control car at the Dublin end.\n\nAll trains have a driving trailer, numbered 9001–9004, containing a driving cab, a luggage area and 29 first plus seats. It weighs 42 tonnes and has a wheelchair space. The cab is only used for services from Belfast, as the locomotive goes north.\n\nThe second carriage in the enterprise train set, numbered 9101–9104, is a full second first plus coach and has 47 seats (no wheelchair space or luggage area). It weighs 40 tonnes.\n\nNext coach, numbered 9401–9404 is a buffet coach.\n\nCoach four, numbered 9213–9216, is standard class with a wheelchair space.\n\nCoaches five to seven, numbered 9201–9212, are standard class (no wheelchair space).\n\nSince 2012 electric power for the train is no longer delivered from the locomotive but from a separate generator van. Their final numbers are 9602, 9604, 9606 and 9608.\n\nBoth IÉ and NIR have an ambition to introduce hourly services, but it would be necessary to procure new, faster rolling stock to achieve the required improvements in frequency and speed. In 2005, they investigated procuring new rolling stock when seven capable Class 222 DEMUs built for the British network became available as one of the possible options, which also included the procurement of additional 22000 Class DMUs as part of IÉ's order. New rolling stock would most likely be a multiple unit rather than locomotive hauled, similar to IÉ's plans for Dublin-Cork services.\n\nPress reports from 2007 have stated that NIR & IÉ plan to introduce a new hourly service. This was reiterated in a statement by Conor Murphy, the then Northern Ireland Minister for Regional Development, who stated that the two companies had made a presentation to the North/South Ministerial Council in October 2007 putting forward the case for improvements in the frequency and speed of the service. Any improvements to the service would require significant investment in track and signalling, as well as new rolling stock. In April 2008, the then Minister for Regional Development stated that the major improvements to the infrastructure and rolling stock required by Enterprise would be in the region of £500 million. However, the introduction of an hourly timetable remains an ambition for NIR and IÉ. The line south of the border was upgraded to continuous welded rail in the 1990s, while NIR has also made track improvements to allow an increase in speed. Enterprise would require a minimum of seven trains to operate an hourly service – until 2013, IÉ had a significant number of stored Mark 3 rolling stock available, of which five sets were push-pull capable. However, all of IÉ's Mark 3 carriages were scrapped during 2013 and 2014. NIR also withdrew its \"Gatwick\" set in June 2009 and it will be preserved by the RPSI. The introduction of the 22000 Class has led to a surplus of locomotives that could be utilised. However, the major issue remains the capacity at , which is stretched. The transfer of Commuter services to and the DART Underground should go some way to alleviating capacity issues. Plans have also been mooted to transfer Enterprise's northern terminus from to Belfast Great Victoria Street, which is more centrally located and is co-located with Europa Buscentre, providing an integrated rail/bus journey to all parts of the island.\n\nIn November 2007 the cross-border IBEC-CBI Joint Business Council, in a submission to the North/South Ministerial Council, stated that Enterprise was falling behind compared to the improvements of other international rail providers, with delays \"often up to an hour\" and serious reliability problems and an uncompetitive journey time against making the journey by road.\n\nNIR confirmed in 2008 that the train is so frequently broken down that it is no longer fit for purpose and requires £500 million investment to bring it up to an acceptable standard. With the faster road journey to Dublin and the Enterprise's unreliability and infrequency, it has been running at a loss as passengers switch to much cheaper and faster alternatives.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312945", "title": "Keystone High School", "text": "Keystone High School\n\nKeystone High School may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2312946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312946", "title": "Mandela Challenge Plate", "text": "Mandela Challenge Plate\n\nThe Nelson Mandela Challenge Plate is a rugby union trophy contested between Australia and South Africa. It is named after South Africa's first post-apartheid president, Nelson Mandela.\n\nInitially designed to be held every two years, the trophy was first contested as a one-off match in 2000, with Australia winning the game 44-23 at Melbourne's Docklands Stadium. The second, played in Ellis Park, Johannesburg in 2002, was also South Africa's home game in the Tri Nations, and was won 33–31 by South Africa. The 2004 event, delayed until 2005, was played over two legs, and was not part of the Tri Nations. Since South Africa were the holders, Australia needed to win both games to reclaim the trophy. Australia won the first game 30–12, but lost the return leg at Ellis Park, 33–20.\n\nBetween 2006 and 2011, with the expansion of the Tri Nations series so that each country plays each other three times, the plate was contested over three Tests, akin to the Bledisloe Cup, with the exception of 2007 and 2011, when teams only played 4 games each, to accommodate for the Rugby World Cups in those years. In 2012, the Tri Nations was expanded to include Argentina and the competition was renamed The Rugby Championship. The teams now play each other twice, and the challengers are required to beat the holders in both games to win the plate.\n\nThe trophy is a leather-clad silver plate containing a 24 carat (100%) rim, and a central gold disk showing a Wallaby and a Springbok (the icons of the two teams). It was designed by Flynn Silver, an Australian family company from Kyneton, Victoria.\n\nSource:\n\n"}
{"id": "2312947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312947", "title": "Peter Aerts", "text": "Peter Aerts\n\nPeter Aerts (born October 25, 1970) is a Dutch semi-retired super heavyweight kickboxer. Known for his devastating high kicks, which earned him the nickname \"The Dutch Lumberjack\", he is widely considered to be one of the greatest heavyweight kickboxers of all time.\n\nBorn in Eindhoven, Netherlands, Aerts began training in Muay Thai at the age of fourteen. He won his first world title when he was nineteen years old in 1990, taking the International Kick Boxing Federation's Heavyweight Championship. He would also add the Dutch heavyweight title and the World Muay Thai Association's heavyweight title to his mantelpiece before going on to compete in Japan. He competed in every K-1 World Grand Prix except one, (2009).\n\nA three-time K-1 World Grand Prix Champion, he debuted at the inaugural K-1 World GP in 1993 where he was eliminated by fellow K-1 legend Ernesto Hoost. He won his first Grand Prix in 1994 by knocking out Rob van Esdonk and Patrick Smith in the quarter-finals and semi-finals, respectively, before taking a unanimous decision over Masaaki Satake in the finals. However, he was stopped on more than one occasion by Mike Bernardo, being memorably knocked out of the 1996 K-1 World GP at the quarter-finals, as part of his series of wins over Aerts. \n\nAerts also won the GP the following year when he beat Toshiyuki Atokawa, Ernesto Hoost and then stopped Jérôme Le Banner in the finals. He would not win the tournament again until 1998 when he stopped all three of his opponents in front of 63,800 spectators at the Tokyo Dome. In what is considered to be one of the best Grands Prix ever, and the pinnacle of Aerts' career, he stopped Masaaki Satake with a knee strike in the quarters, forced the referee to stop his semi-final match with long-time rival Mike Bernardo and knocked out Andy Hug with one of his famous high kicks in the final. He won this tournament in six minutes and forty-three seconds, which was the quickest K-1 GP win ever at the time. This record stood until 2009 when it was beaten by rival Semmy Schilt.\n\nAlthough 1998 was his last Grand Prix win, Aerts continued to compete and reached the final a further three times (in 2006, 2007 and 2010).\n\nAerts was born in Eindhoven, North Brabant, Netherlands on October 25, 1970. After playing football in his childhood for seven years, he began practicing martial arts in 1983, beginning with taekwondo. His interest in combat sports came from his grandfather and an uncle; both were active in that field. In 1984, he started kickboxing and began training in \"Judoka-Kickboxing\" in Best, with Mikki Benazzouz. After a year of training, Aerts fought his first match, and soon one victory succeeded the other. He won his first world championship title when he was nineteen.\n\nAerts debuted as a professional kickboxer in 1985. Some notable fights from his early career include a decision loss to Ernesto Hoost (who he would fight a total of five times) on November 20, 1988, and a knockout loss to Andre Mannaart in 1989 while still a teenager. Aerts switched to \"The Champs\" gym in Eindhoven, with Eddy Smulders, in 1989 where he won his first world title, taking the IKBF World Heavyweight Championship in 1990.\n\n1991 saw Aerts switch gyms again, this time moving to the famous Chakuriki Gym under Thom Harinck, where he had his greatest successes of his career. On November 18, 1991, Aerts defeated the legendary Frank Lobman via unanimous decision in Rotterdam to win the WMTA World Heavyweight Muay Thai Championship.\n\nIn 1992, Aerts truly moved onto the world stage. He beat Maurice Smith by decision after nine rounds in Paris, France on April 9, 1992. Just a month later, on May 16, he knocked out Adam Watt in the second round in Tokyo, Japan.\n\nHe rematched Frank Lobman on September 20, 1992 for the WMTA World Heavyweight Muay Thai Championship. Aerts emerged the victor once again as Lobman retired in round three. He ended the year with a draw against karate fighter Masaaki Satake in Japan and Sensei Martella in Italy.\n\nOn January 29, 1993, Aerts defeated Peter Selkthorpe of England by first-round knockout with a knee strike to win the European Muay Thai title in Best, Netherlands. He then rematched Maurice Smith in Amsterdam on March 7, 1993 and knocked him out with a right high kick, a technique that would become Aerts' signature move.\n\nThese wins gave Aerts the reputation as a top-level kickboxer and he was invited to take part in the \"K-1 Grand Prix '93\", an eight-man, one-night tournament made up of the world's best heavyweights and light heavyweights held in Tokyo, Japan. He faced Ernesto Hoost in the quarter-finals, and after a close three rounds, Hoost was named the winner by majority decision (29-28, 30-28, 30-30).\n\nHe returned to K-1 on September 4, 1993 against Dino Homsey at \"K-1 Illusion\" and KO'd the American with a left high kick in round one. Fifteen days later in Amsterdam, Aerts made the first defence of his WMTA World Heavyweight Muay Thai Championship against Rob van Esdonk, knocking him out with a right hook less than a minute into round four.\n\nAerts knocked out Markus Fuckner of Germany on February 20, 1994 in Amsterdam to retain the WMTA Heavyweight Muay Thai title before heading out to Japan to take part in the \"K-1 Grand Prix '94\" which was held in Tokyo on April 30, 1994. In the quarter-finals, Aerts was drawn against Rob van Esdonk whom he had defeated in the Netherlands six months earlier. Van Esdonk knocked Aerts down in round one but Aerts was able to come back and KO him with a right high kick. In the semis, he faced Patrick Smith, an American with a wild, aggressive style. Aerts was still able to handle him, however, and KO'd him just over one minute into the first round. Progressing into the final, he came up against Masaaki Satake for the second time. Aerts simply landed more powerful and a larger number of strikes on Satake en route to a unanimous decision (27-25, 30-25, 30-29) victory. This made him the 1994 K-1 World Grand Prix Champion.\n\nHe returned to the ring on September 12, 1994 at the Night of the Stars tournament in Rotterdam. At the quarter-final stage, he faced Rob van Esdonk for the third time and Lumberjack'd him with the high kick again. He then knocked out Glenn Wijngaart in the semis and went into the final against Frank Lobman, who was thirty-eight at this point and facing Aerts for the third time. Aerts battered Lobman until his corner threw in the towel in round two.\n\nAerts then made the third defence of his WMTA World Heavyweight Muay Thai title against Ergin Solmaz in Amsterdam on November 12, 1994, before going back to Japan to fight Glen Parker at \"K-1 Legend\". He knocked Parker out with a knee in round one.\n\nOn March 3, 1995, he defeated Kirkwood Walker via right low kick knockout in round three at the \"K-1 Grand Prix '95 Opening Battle\" which qualified him for the \"K-1 Grand Prix '95\" on May 4. In the quarter-finals, he dispatched Japanese karateka Toshiyuki Atokawa with ease, knocking him out with punches in the first round. He went up against Ernesto Hoost for the third time in the semis in what was another close fight. After three rounds, the judges called it a draw and so it went to an extra round, after which Aerts took the unanimous decision (10-9, 10-9, 10-9). In the final, Aerts came up against hard-hitting Frenchman Jérôme Le Banner who had knocked out his two opponents in the run-up to the final. The fight did not last long, as Aerts finished Le Banner with a body shot in round one to become the K-1 World Grand Prix Champion for the second year running.\n\nAerts then beat Michael Thompson by KO in a superfight at the \"K-3 Grand Prix '95\" in Nagoya on July 16, 1997 before beating Hubert Numrich by points for the WMTA World Super Heavyweight Muay Thai Championship in Amsterdam on October 28, 1995. He ended the year with a forty-second KO win over Mike Bernardo, the hard hitting South African known for his punching power, at \"K-1 Hercules\" on December 9, 1995. This would be the first of six meetings between the men from 1995 to 1998, in what became one of the biggest feuds in K-1 history.\n\nOn March 10, 1996, Aerts knocked out Jean-Claude Leuyer with a highlight-reel high kick at the \"K-1 Grand Prix '96 Opening Battle\" in Yokohama to qualify for the 1996 K-1 World Grand Prix.\n\nAt the \"K-1 Grand Prix '96\" on May 6, he came up against Mike Bernardo again at the quarter-final stage. Already a dominant name in K-1 and the reigning Grand Prix champion, Aerts was the favorite to win the 1996 tournament and as he had demolished Bernardo just six months earlier, he was expected to do the same this time. It was not to be, however, and after a slow first round, Bernardo turned the fight into a brawl in the second. The referee gave Aerts a count in round two, and in round three Bernardo knocked Aerts out with a right hook. Bernardo had broken Aerts' nineteen-fight winning run, and became the first man to beat him in since Ernesto Hoost in 1993.\n\nAerts was given the chance to avenge this loss at \"K-1 Revenge '96\" four months later, on September 1, 1996 when the rubber match was made between the pair. Anticipation was high, but the fight was an anticlimax. In the first round, Aerts caught Bernardo with an inadvertent low blow. When Bernardo was unable to continue, Aerts was disqualified.\n\nThis settled nothing of course, and K-1 quickly booked the rematch to the rematch, this time for October 16 and \"K-1 Star Wars '96\". Aerts knocked Bernardo down in round one and continued to hurt him with low kicks throughout the fight. In round two, the referee gave Aerts a standing eight count but he contested this as he simply stumbled after throwing a kick. By the third round, Aerts had started to take a beating and Bernardo KO'd him with a right hook towards the end of the round. After going undefeated in almost twenty fights over three years, Aerts had now lost three times in-a-row, all to Mike Bernardo.\n\nIn 1997, Aerts broke his working relationship with Thom Harinck and the Chakuriki Gym and went to train under former opponent Andre Mannaart at the Mejiro Gym.\n\nHe returned to the ring for the first time since his trilogy with Mike Bernardo on March 16, 1997 at \"K-1 Kings '97\" where he had the first of his four meetings with legendary Swiss Kyokushin fighter Andy Hug. Hug was the 1996 K-1 Grand Prix Champion, but Aerts was able to overwhelm him and forced the referee to stop the match in round one. He then continued to get back on track by TKOing Jean-Claude Leuyer at \"K-1 Braves '97\" on April 29, 1997 and KOing Jérôme Le Banner at \"K-1 Dream '97\" on July 20, 1997.\n\nHe qualified for the 1997 K-1 GP when he beat James Warring at the \"K-1 Grand Prix '97 1st Round\" on September 7, 1997. At the beginning of the fight, Warring pretended that he wanted to sportsmanly touch gloves with Aerts and then attempted to sneakily punch him with a right overhand when he got close to him. Aerts was able to dominate the rest of the fight before knocking him cold with a right high kick in round three.\n\nAt the \"K-1 Grand Prix '97 Final\" on November 9, Aerts came up against Mike Bernardo for the fifth time at the first stage. Aerts used his superior speed to pick Bernardo apart with punches before finishing him with a body shot in round three. This brought their rivalry to 2-2, discounting the disqualification. Marching into the semi-finals, he had his second match against Andy Hug. After three hard-fought rounds, Hug was given the nod via unanimous decision (30-29, 30-28, 30-28) and Aerts was eliminated.\n\nAerts kicked off 1998 with a majority decision victory over Ernesto Hoost, their third fight, at \"K-1 Kings '98\" on April 9. He then travelled to Zurich, Switzerland to fight Andy Hug for his WKA World Super Heavyweight Muay Thai Championship at \"K-1 Fight Night '98\" on June 6, 1998. Hug defeated Aerts via unanimous decision after five rounds to retain his title.\n\nHe also lost his next fight against the Brazilian \"karateka\" Francisco Filho at \"K-1 Dream '98\" on July 18, 1998. Aerts knocked Filho down in round one but the match was stopped by the doctor at the end of the round as Aerts had a large cut on his shin, and Filho was awarded the victory.\n\nHe soon returned to form, however, knocking out Sinisa Andrijasevic in round two at the \"K-1 World Grand Prix '98 Opening Round\" on September 27, 1998 to qualify for the \"K-1 Grand Prix '98 Final Round\" on December 13. Kickboxing had become a mainstream phenomenon in Japan by this time and the event was attended by more that 60,000 spectators at the Tokyo Dome. Drawn against Masaaki Satake at the quarter-final stage, he wrecked the Japanese fans' favourite with knees from the Thai clinch inside the first round. In the semis, he came up against his old nemesis Mike Bernardo. Knowing that Bernardo is a very religious Christian, Aerts came into the ring with \"666\" written on his lumberjack shirt. Aerts knocked him down twice in round one and forced the referee to stop the bout, sending him into the final against Andy Hug. This brought an end to their rivalry with an overall tally at 3-2 to Aerts, discounting the DQ. The final between Aerts and Hug lasted just a minute and ten seconds as Aerts knocked him out with a trademark high kick to win his third K-1 World Grand Prix.\n\nThis was the fastest tournament win in K-1 history, as he knocked out all of his opponents in the very first round in a record time of 6:43 minutes, until Semmy Schilt won the World Grand Prix in 2009 in 5:54 minutes.\n\nPeter Aerts began 1999 in a rich vein of form, finishing Michael McDonald, Jim Mullen, Matt Skelton, Maurice Smith and Sam Greco, respectively, over the course of five months. At the \"K-1 World Grand Prix '99 Opening Round\", the qualifying round for the 1999 K-1 WGP, on October 5, 1999, he took a unanimous decision victory over Lloyd van Dams. In the quarter-finals of the \"K-1 Grand Prix '99 Final Round\" on December 5, 1999, Aerts went up against Jérôme Le Banner for the third time. Just fifteen seconds into the first round, he dropped the big Frenchman with a high kick. Although dazed and clearly hurt, Le Banner was able to make the count and came back to knock Aerts out with a devastating left hook at just over the one minute-mark of round number one, sending the reigning champion crashing out of the tournament.\n\nFollowing this loss, he returned to the ring against Japanese star Musashi at \"K-1 Rising 2000\" a little over a month later on January 25, 2000. Aerts won by technical knockout when Musashi's corner stopped the fight at the end of round four. On April 23, 2000, he defeated Ray Sefo via low kick KO in round three at \"K-1 The Millennium\". This would be the first of three fights between the legends.\n\nAerts continued his win-streak when he knocked out Andrew Thomson in fifty-six seconds at \"K-1 King of the Ring 2000\" in Bologna, Italy on May 12, 2000. This run came to an end, however, when he came up against Cyril Abidi, a promising young French fighter, at \"K-1 Spirits 2000\" on July 7, 2000. Abidi managed to drag Aerts into a brawl and caused a huge upset by KOing him in round one. Aerts was then given the chance to prove this loss was simply a fluke when he rematched Abidi in the quarter-finals of the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2000 in Yokohama\", a qualifying tournament for the 2000 World Grand Prix. He was unable to do so, however, and Abidi stopped him en route to the final.\n\nDespite having lost his last two fights and failing to win a K-1 qualifying tournament, Aerts was still invited to the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2000 Final\" at the Tokyo Dome on December 10, 2000 due to his status as one of the world's top kickboxers. At the quarter-final stage, he was given his rubber match with Cyrl Abidi. Aerts dominated the fight this time, and knocked Abidi down with a two-punch combination just seconds after the opening bell. He took a unanimous decision (29-26, 29-28, 29-26) after three rounds. However, during the fight, Abidi headbutted Aerts numerous times which caused a cut on his forehead. Due to this cut, Aerts could not advance in the tournament and was replaced by Abidi in the semis.\n\nAerts would then KO Stuart Green in round one in a superfight at the \"K-1 Holland GP 2001 in Arnhem\" on February 4, 2001, his first fight in the Netherlands in almost six years. After a decision loss to Mirko Cro Cop at \"K-1 Gladiators 2001\" and a TKO win over Nobu Hayashi at \"K-1 Burning 2001\" in early 2001, he entered the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2001 in Las Vegas\" on August 11, 2001. After knocking out Noboru Uchida in the quarter-finals of the tournament, he had his fourth fight with Maurice Smith in the semis and went 4-0 over the American with an extra round unanimous decision. In the final, he was KO'd by Stefan Leko late in the third round.\n\nAt the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2001 Final\" on December 8, 2001, Aerts went up against Francisco Filho at the first stage. Aerts developed a large hemotoma on his left foot when Filho blocked one of his kicks with his knee. Due to this, Aerts' corner stopped the fight at the end of round two and he was eliminated from the tournament.\n\nHe kicked off 2002 with wins over Nicholas Pettas and Andrei Kirsanov in the first half of the year before losing a majority decision to Alexey Ignashov at the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2002 in Fukuoka\" on July 14, 2002. He qualified for the 2002 K-1 World Grand Prix final eight when he won a unanimous decision (30-27, 30-27, 30-27) victory over Glaube Feitosa at the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2002 Final Elimination\" on October 5, 2002. At the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2002\" on December 7, 2002, Aerts was eliminated from the Grand Prix at the quarter-final stage for the fourth year running when he was beaten by Ray Sefo via split decision (29-30, 30-28, 30-29).\n\nAlthough Aerts did not have as much success in the 2000s as he did in his earlier K-1 career, he continued to be a competitive challenger. And while Andy Hug died and other old-school legends Branko Cikatić, Mike Bernardo, Sam Greco, Ernesto Hoost and Stan Longinidis all retired, Aerts continued to face the new generation of stars.\n\nStefan Leko defeated Peter Aerts for the second time on March 30, 2003 at the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2003 in Saitama\". He rebounded from two consecutive defeats, however, and knocked out Tsuyoshi Nakasako with a high kick at \"K-1 Beast II 2003\" on June 29, 2003 before qualifying for the 2003 K-1 WGP by beating Jerrel Venetiaan via unanimous decision (30-29, 30-29, 30-28) at \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2003 Final Elimination\" on October 11, 2003. In the quarter-finals of the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2003 Final\" on December 6, Aerts went up against Alexey Ignashov. After a close three rounds, the fight was scored a draw and went to an extra round. Aerts was judged the winner unanimously (10-9, 10-9, 10-9) and advanced into the semis for the first time since he won the Grand Prix in 1998. Against Musashi in the second stage was another close decision. This time, however, the judges went in favour of Aerts' opponent and Musashi won a majority decision (30-30, 30-29, 30-29).\n\nIn 2004, Aerts left Mejiro Gym to found Team Aerts, training out of Kops Gym in Amsterdam under Henry Hooft and Jan Plas. After six months out of the ring, he returned against Gary Goodridge at the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2004 in Nagoya\" on June 6, 2004. After withstanding the Trinidadian brawler's initial onslaught, Aerts brutalised Goodridge with low kicks over two and a half rounds. Although Goodridge was still game, he could barely stand and the referee stopped the fight in round three. Aerts then defeated Michael McDonald by unanimous decision (30-29, 30-29, 29-27) at the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2004 Final Elimination\" on September 25, 2004 to qualify for the K-1 World GP final eight. The \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2004 Final\", held on December 4, 2004, saw Aerts go up against South African boxer Francois Botha in the quarter-finals. Aerts lost in the first round when he could not continue after injuring his leg while low kicking Botha.\n\nAfter a relatively poor 2004, Aerts went into 2005 with an extra round unanimous decision (9.5-8, 10-8.5, 10-8) over American prospect Carter Williams in a superfight at the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2005 in Seoul\" on March 19, 2005. Williams' aggressive style had Aerts backtracking for much of the fight, but he was still able to show his class and take victory in the deciding round. He picked up another win over Mighty Mo at the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2005 in Osaka - Final Elimination\" on September 23, 2005 to ensure his place at the 2005 World Grand Prix. Mo showed signs of damage from Aerts' kicks towards the end of the first round, and Aerts was able to finish him with a low kick in round two. In the quarter-finals of the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2005 in Tokyo Final\" on November 19, 2005, he faced Jérôme Le Banner for the fourth time. The fight started slowly, with both men showing respect for each other's power, but went on to be an exciting and close match. The judges scored it a draw after three rounds and it went into an extra round to decide the winner. All three judges agreed that Aerts was the winner (10-9, 10-9, 10-9). Injury would hinder him once again, however, and he was forced to pull out of the Grand Prix as he could not fight again that night. Having made his debut in mixed martial arts on July 6, 2005 when he knocked out former sumo wrestler Wakashoyo at \"Hero's 2\", Aerts returned for his second and last MMA bout against judoka Shungo Oyama at \"K-1 PREMIUM 2005 Dynamite!!\" on December 31, 2005. Aerts was clearly unfamiliar with grappling and was submitted with a heel hook by Oyama as soon as the fight went to the ground at the 0:30 mark of round one.\n\nOn March 5, 2006, Aerts went into the ring with the 212 cm (6 ft 11 1⁄2 in) 2005 K-1 World Grand Prix Champion Semmy Schilt in a superfight at the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2006 in Auckland\". After three rounds, Aerts was given the majority decision (28-28, 28-28, 29-28) win over the giant karate fighter. This win proved that, while his performances against top-tier competition had been waning in recent years, he was still a world-class kickboxer.\n\nIn his next fight, Aerts faced fellow K-1 legend Ernesto Hoost (the fifth and final meeting between the pair) at the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2006 in Amsterdam\" on May 13, 2006. The circumstances surrounding the match were rather bizarre as Hoost was scheduled to face Bob Sapp that night and Aerts was only there to commentate for television. However, Sapp ran from the Amsterdam ArenA and Aerts stepped in to replace him, and had to borrow a pair of fighting shorts from Semmy Schilt (which had Schilt's name written on them and displayed the Golden Glory gym's logo). Despite having not trained for the fight, Aerts was still able to last all three rounds with Hoost and lost a majority decision (30-29, 30-28, 30-30).\n\nThen, following a knockout win over Hiraku Hori at the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2006 in Seoul\" in June and a decision victory against Gary Goodridge at the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2006 in Sapporo\" in July, Aerts faced Musashi in a tournament reserve fight at the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2006 in Tokyo Final\" on December 2, 2006. He defeated Musashi by first-round KO, and after Remy Bonjasky was forced to withdraw from the Grand Prix due to an injury, Aerts took his place and met Glaube Feitosa in the semi-finals. After knocking the karate man down with a barrage of strikes in round two, the referee stopped the fight and Aerts went through to the final where a rematch with reigning champion Semmy Schilt awaited. He was unable to reenact his March 2006 performance, however, and Schilt took a unanimous decision (30-27, 30-27, 30-28) after three rounds. Schilt knocked him down with a knee in round two and dominated the fight overall with his size advantage.\n\nOn June 23, 2007 at the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2007 in Amsterdam\", Aerts faced Bob Sapp in a much-anticipated superfight. In what was a rather anti-climactic affair, Aerts struck Sapp with the left knee, Sapp fell down and the fight was over in 0:25 of the first round. He then KO'd Nicholas Pettas with a sensational high kick at the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2007 in Hong Kong\" on August 5, 2007 before going up against Ray Sefo at the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2007 in Seoul Final 16\" on September 29, 2007. He won the fight at the end of the first round by TKO (corner stoppage) when Sefo did not answer the bell. As a result of his victory, Aerts qualified for his 15th consecutive K-1 World Grand Prix .\n\nThe \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2007 Final\" was held on December 8, 2007 at the Yokohama Arena. After a quick knockout of Junichi Sawayashiki in the quarter-finals, he met two-time K-1 World Grand Prix winner Remy Bonjasky in the semis and dominated him en route to a unanimous decision (30-29, 30-27, 30-28) win which would take him into the final for a rubber match with defending champion Sem Schilt. Midway through the first round, Aerts went down in pain clutching his right knee. He was unable to continue due to injury once again and Schilt regained the title.\n\nAerts began 2008 with a TKO win over South African giant Jan Nortje at the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2008 in Fukuoka\" on June 29, before meeting Semmy Schilt for the fourth time at the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2008 in Seoul Final 16\" on September 27. Aerts won by majority decision (30-29, 30-29, 30-30) to bring their rivalry to 2-2 and qualify for the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2008 Final\" which was held on December 6, 2008. He was eliminated at the first stage by K-1 Heavyweight Champion Badr Hari. Aerts gave a poor performance in the match, and was knocked down less than twenty seconds into round one. In the second round, Hari dominated even more and forced the referee to stop the fight.\n\nFollowing this poor showing, many critics and fans believed that, at 38 years old, Aerts was too old and past his prime. Nonetheless, he was determined to return to form and began training under Thom Harinck again in early 2009. With Harinck back in his corner, Aerts faced Errol Zimmerman in a superfight at the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2009 in Yokohama\". Although the fight went to an extra round decision which Aerts won unanimously (10-9, 10-9, 10-9), he looked like a much improved fighter. Following this, he knocked out former world cruiserweight boxing champion Yosuke Nishijima with a low kick in round three at a \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2009 in Tokyo Final 16 Qualifying GP\" superfight. With two good showings under his belt that year, Aerts then went up against Alistair Overeem at the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2009 in Seoul Final 16\" on September 26, 2009. Despite Overeem's youth, size and strength advantage, Aerts was still the favourite going into the fight as Overeem had primarily spent his career as an MMA fighter and not a kickboxer. Although there were no knockdowns in the match, Overeem dominated over three rounds and took the unanimous decision (30-27, 30-27, 30-27).\n\nAfter this fight, Aerts dropped more weight under a diet that Harinck set for him, dropping to 103 kg as opposed to his usual 109–112 kg. He took part in a tournament reserve bout at the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2009 Final\" on December 5, 2009, defeating Gökhan Saki by unanimous decision (30-27, 29-27, 29-28). None of the tournament fighters were withdrawn, however, so this was the first time since the tournament's founding in 1993 that Aerts had not competed at the K-1 World Grand Prix.\n\nAerts continued to drop weight, and on April 3, 2010, he faced K-1 Heavyweight (-100kg) Champion Kyotaro for the title at the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2010 in Yokohama\". He came into the fight at 97 kg. Despite looking in good shape, he was knocked down twice in the first round (although the second knockdown did not count as it came just as the bell sounded) before getting knocked out with one of Kyotaro's famous punches in the second.\n\nFollowing this defeat, Aerts regained some of the weight that he had lost for his match against dreadlocked karate man Ewerton Teixeira at the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2010 in Seoul Final 16\" on October 2, 2010. A close match, it was decided by an extra round unanimous decision (10-9, 10-9, 10-9) in favour of Aerts who then qualified for the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2010 Final\" on December 11. In his 17th appearance at the K-1 WGP, he defeated Mighty Mo by first-round KO in the quarter-finals. In the semi-finals, he came face to face with his archrival Semmy Schilt, in a fight where he was a huge underdog due to his age and Schilt's success in the 2009 Grand Prix. After being cut above the eye and finishing the fight with a swollen face, Aerts won a brilliantly fought decision. However, he had taken a lot of damage in the fight with Schilt and started to cough up blood in his changing room after the fight. He was overwhelmed by a less damaged and much fitter and bigger Alistair Overeem and lost by first-round TKO. Though he was defeated, he broke three world records in K-1: He became the oldest man (at 40 years old) to ever make it to the K-1 World Grand Prix Final, he marked the most appearances (6) that any fighter had ever made it to the Final, and also became the first person to ever beat Semmy Schilt in a tournament.\n\nAerts was expected to face Melvin Manhoef at the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2011 in Nanjing Final 16\" on October 29, 2011. However, the event was cancelled with K-1 experiencing severe financial problems. With his December schedule clear for the first time in 18 years, he defeated Japanese fighter Mr. Kamikaze by first-round TKO on a show titled \"Hinokuni Kakuto Densetsu Legend 2\" on December 11, 2011.\n\nHis next fight was a TKO loss against Tyrone Spong at an It's Showtime event on June 30, 2012 in Brussels, Belgium. After that fight he will fight exclusively for at least the next two years with GLORY, a new kickboxing league where most of the top champions went to. Aerts announced after his loss that he has six more fights on his contract and he wants one of those to be a rematch against Tyrone Spong.\n\nHe competed in the sixteen-man 2012 Glory Heavyweight Grand Slam at \"\" in Saitama, Japan on December 31, 2012 but injury forced him to bow out of the tournament at the first stage. He performed well in round one of his bout with his one-time student Mourad Bouzidi but broke his right hand in the process and was unable to come out for the second round.\n\nHe fought Jamal Ben Saddik at \"\" on May 3, 2013 in Tokyo. A poor start to the fight for Aerts saw him dropped early and he was lucky to survive the first round. However, in a dramatic turnaround in the second, he came out aggressive and floored the giant Moroccan three times, forcing a referee stoppage.\n\nIn what was publicized as his retirement match, Aerts lost a tightly-contested split decision to Rico Verhoeven at \"\" in Tokyo, Japan on December 21, 2013.\n\nAerts was initially expected to compete in a heavyweight tournament at GFC Series 1 in Dubai, United Arab Emirates on May 29, 2014. However, a press statement issued by the promotion later stated that he would fight on the card in a one-off fight against Dewey Cooper. Aerts fought to a draw with Cooper, tearing his hamstring during the match.\n\nAerts will fight Freddy Kemayo at \"Fight Night Saint-Tropez II\" in Saint-Tropez, France on August 4, 2014.\n\nHe is expected to fight Ernesto Hoost for the sixth time on October 19, 2014 in Osaka for the vacant WKO World Heavyweight Championship.\n\nAerts played a fictionalized version of himself in the 2011 Dutch comedy film \"New Kids Turbo\" in which the protagonists, a group of guys who always look for trouble and create chaos in a small village, borrow some money from him. He is seen living in a villa, and in one scene he KO's one of the guys for refusing to give him the money back.\nIn 2011, he began competing as a professional wrestler in the Inoki Genome Federation. He debuted on August 27, 2011 against Shinichi Suzukawa at \"IGF: Super Stars Festival '11\" and won by brutalizing his opponent until the referee stopped the match. He then knocked out Hideki Suzuki at \"IGF 17\" on September 3, 2011. In his third match, Aerts teamed up with Bobby Lashley to face Kazuyuki Fujita and Kendo Kashin in a tag team match at \"Inoki Bom-Ba-Ye 2011\" on December 2, 2011. The match ended when Lashley held Fujta by the arms and let Aerts deliver one of his famous kicks to his head, knocking him out. A rematch between Aerts and Fujita then took place at \"\" on December 31, 2011. Fujita was able to take his revenge, submitting Aerts with a Boston crab which looked like it may have legitimately hurt him.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312950", "title": "Obversion", "text": "Obversion\n\nIn traditional logic, obversion is a \"type of immediate inference in which from a given proposition another proposition is inferred whose subject is the same as the original subject, whose predicate is the contradictory of the original predicate, and whose quality is affirmative if the original proposition's quality was negative and vice versa\". The quality of the inferred categorical proposition is changed but the truth value is the same to the original proposition. The immediately inferred proposition is termed the \"obverse\" of the original proposition, and is a valid form of inference for all types (A, E, I, O) of categorical propositions.\n\nIn a universal affirmative and a universal negative proposition the subject term and the predicate term are both replaced by their negated counterparts:\n\nThe universal affirmative (\"A\" proposition) is obverted to a universal negative (\"E\" proposition). \n\nThe universal negative (\"E\" proposition) is obverted to a universal affirmative (\"A\" proposition). \n\nIn the particular affirmative the quantity of the subject term remains unchanged, but the predicate term of the inferred proposition negates the complement of the predicate term of the original proposition. The particular affirmative (\"I\" proposition) is obverted to a particular negative (\"O\" proposition). \n\nIn the obversion of a particular negative to a particular affirmative the quantity of the subject also remains unchanged, and the predicate term is changed from simple negation to a term of the complementary class. The particular negative (\"O\") proposition is obverted to a particular affirmative (\"I\" proposition). \n\nNote that the truth-value of an original statement is preserved in its resulting obverse form. Because of this, obversion can be used to determine the immediate inferences of all categorical propositions, regardless of quality or quantity.\n\nIn addition, obversion allows us to navigate through the traditional square of logical opposition by providing a means to proceed from \"A\" Propositions to \"E\" Propositions, as well as from \"I\" Propositions to \"O\" Propositions, and vice versa. However, although the resulting propositions from obversion are logically equivalent to the original statements in terms of truth-value, they are not semantically equivalent to their original statements in their standard form.\n\nConsider all possible relationships between the Subject (S) and the Predicate (P) represented using sets:\n\nCase 1: S = P (S and P perfectly overlap)\n\nCase 2: S is a subset of P\n\nCase 3: P is a subset of S\n\nCase 4: S and P are two overlapping sets\n\nCase 5: S and P are disjoint sets\n\nCase 6: S is the universe with P being a subset of P\n\nCase 7: P is the universe with S being a subset of S\n\nValidity of statements after Obversion:\n\nThe obversion operation is performed by changing the quality of the statement and replacing the predicate with its complement.\n\n1. Statement: All S are P (Applicable for Case 1, 2, 6 and 7)\n\nObverse: No S are non-P\n\nValidity: YES\n\n2. Statement: No S are P (Applicable for Case 5)\n\nObverse: All S are non-P\n\nValidity: YES\n\n3. Statement: Some S are P (Applicable for Case 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 and 7)\n\nObverse: Some S are not non-P\n\nValidity: YES\n\n4. Statement: Some S are not P (Applicable for Case 3, 4, 5 and 7)\n\nObverse: Some S are non-P\n\nValidity: YES\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312952", "title": "Mark Campbell (tight end)", "text": "Mark Campbell (tight end)\n\nMark Joseph Campbell (December 6, 1975) is a former American football player. He played professional football for ten seasons in the National Football League (NFL) as a tight end for the Cleveland Browns from 1999-2002, the Buffalo Bills from 2003 to 2005, and the New Orleans Saints from 2006-2008. He played college football for the University of Michigan from 1995 to 1998.\n\nCampbell was born in Clawson, Michigan, in 1975. He is the youngest of 5 children of John and Elizabeth Campbell. His siblings are John (brother), Kevin (brother), Diann (sister), and Doug (brother). He grew up in Clawson and attended Bishop Foley Catholic High School in Madison Heights, Michigan.He was an All-State selection as a High School Senior in football, basketball, and baseball. Additionally, Campbell was 1 of 2 Tight Ends (Future Hall of Fame member Tony Gonzalez as the other) to be selected as a Football Parade All-American. He accepted a football scholarship to attend the University of Michigan. In later years, Campbell was selected in the Catholic League Hall of Fame.\n\nCampbell enrolled at the University of Michigan in 1994 with Gary Moeller as head coach. He played college football on head coach Lloyd Carr's Michigan Wolverines football teams from 1995 to 1998. Campbell began his collegiate career playing multiple offensive positions but primarily as a tight end. He started his first game as a fullback in 1995 and started 5 games as the second tight end in 1996. In 1997, he started one game each at fullback and tight end. Campbell separated himself from competitors with his blocking efficiency. He was rated as the #2 ranked blocking tight end in all of college football by USA Today. Campbell started and caught the first pass of the Rose Bowl leading the charge to victory. He was 1 of 32 players on the team to eventually play in the National Football League. Campbell was a key member and team leader of the 1997 National Championship team. As a senior in 1998, he started 7 games at tight end or as the second tight end on the field. In four years at Michigan, Campbell caught 32 passes for 357 yards and one touchdown. Again, he played a key member in team leadership and was presented as the Bob Ufer award winner as voted on by his teammates. This award signifies his appreciation by his peers as a low profile but essential part of the team's success.\n\nCampbell was undrafted in the 1999 NFL Draft. He signed as a free agent with the Cleveland Browns and played for them from 1999 to 2002 under Executive Vice President/Director of Football Operations Dwight Clark and head coach Chris Palmer. Ray Perkins served as his tight ends coach. Campbell missed most of the 2001 season with a broken leg suffered in the last week of training camp and placed on Injured Reserve. He was extremely motivated to keep improving so he took his recovery time to lift weights, train, and build his physique while gaining twenty pounds of muscle while keeping his playing weight the same. In 2002, Campbell came back ready to play and was named the opening day starter at tight end. The Browns released the previous starter and former first round pick, Rickey Dudley, to make room for Campbell. He had a solid season and was awarded the Ed Block Courage Award Winner. He appeared in 46 games for the Browns, 30 as the team's starting tight end, and caught 46 passes for 390 yards and four touchdowns. Additionally, he was named on the team's leadership council selected by head coach Butch Davis.\n\nIn February 2003, the Browns traded Campbell to the Buffalo Bills in exchange for a conditional pick in the 2004 NFL Draft. The conditional pick, based on Campbell's play in 2003, eventually was determined a fourth round selection. After playing well both as a blocker and receiver in the first eight games of the 2003 Buffalo Bills season, Campbell was signed to a multi-year contract extension by General Manager Tom Donahoe and head coach Gregg Williams. In 2004, under new head coach, Mike Mularkey, Campbell was elected on the team's leadership council. Also, he was the only tight end in Buffalo Bills team history to score three touchdowns in a single game. He is tied for the most receiving touchdowns in a single game for all receivers with three. Both records he still holds today. He suffered a season ending knee ACL injury in 2004 in the ninth game of the year. He was on pace to break personal records for receptions and touchdowns before the injury. Additionally, he was nominated as the NFL Players Association representative as voted on by his teammates. An honor that Campbell held for six of his ten years in the NFL. In 2005, he returned from injury to start the first game of the season. He played another solid season in Buffalo highlighted with his second career Ed Block Courage Award. He is the only player to win the Ed Block Courage Award twice in a career. Campbell was with the Bills from 2003 to 2005. He appeared in 42 games for the Bills, 33 as a starting tight end, and caught 70 passes for 681 yards and six touchdowns.\n\nCampbell concluded his NFL career playing for the New Orleans Saints from 2006-2008. He appeared in 23 games, 14 as a starter at tight end, for the Saints and caught 30 passes for 285 yards and two touchdowns. In 2006, he was awarded as the tight end on the All-Joe Team by USA Today. This team is composed of low profile players that quietly excel. It is voted on by all of the general managers of NFL teams. In 2007, Campbell injured his back in the last pre-season game versus the Kansas City Chiefs. He was placed on Injured Reserve for the entire season. In 2008, Campbell returned to the field and filled a variety of offensive roles. He retired after suffering a knee injury late in the 2008 season, and having undergone ten surgeries in 10 years to repair a variety of football injuries. He turned down an offer to play for the 2009 Saints team that won Super Bowl XLIV. He was considered an extra quarterback on the field due to his preparation and football IQ. Campbell was offered multiple NFL and Division I coaching positions but ultimately, he wanted to move back to Michigan to raise his young family rather then potentially move around the country to coach.\n\nIn ten NFL seasons, Campbell appeared in 111 games, 77 as a starter, and caught 146 yards for 1,356 yards. \"Sports Illustrated\" in 2010 called him \"one of those blue collar guys who carves out a solid career in the NFL ... without ever receiving much in the way of accolades or time in the spotlight. He could make his teams look great without the average fan knowing it. Campbell is one of the leadership guys you want in your locker room or on your side when things weren't going well. He'll help guide the ship out of it.\"\n\nAfter retiring from football, Campbell took a job with a medical device company and as a broadcaster covering games for the Big Ten Network. He founded a medical company, Medkinect, in 2010 which has consistently grown in employees and domestic coverage. He is also a partner in Industry Lab Diagnostic Partners (ILDP), a toxicology laboratory. His personal call to action include his own charity, \"Forward Pass\" and additionally, he serves as a board member for The ChadTough Foundation, meant to inspire and fund game-changing research to discover effective treatments for pediatric brain cancer, with an emphasis on Diffuse Intrinsic Pontine Glioma (DIPG).\n"}
