{"id": "2238734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238734", "title": "Clewer", "text": "Clewer\n\nClewer (also known as Clewer Village) is an ecclesiastical parish and an area of Windsor in the county of Berkshire, England. Clewer makes up three wards of the Royal Borough of Windsor and Maidenhead, namely Clewer North, Clewer South and Clewer East.\n\nThe name Clewer comes from the word \"Clifwara\" meaning \"cliff-dwellers\", and is named after those who lived below the hill on which Windsor Castle was built. Historically, Clewer pre-dates New Windsor and still exists as a separate ecclesiastical parish. A Saxon settlement existed there, and it is thought that the settlement of Clewer may have grown up at a place where the river Thames could be forded. A wood-and-thatch Saxon church is believed to have existed on the site of the present church. The surviving font is thought to be Saxon, and is presumed to have belonged to the earlier church. Until the 1850s this font was in an improbable position at the west end of the north aisle and it is likely that it had never been moved from its position in the earlier Saxon church.\n\nBy the time of the Norman Conquest, there was a Manor of Clewer, mentioned in the Domesday Book as \"Clivore\" and recorded as having a church and mill. It was from here that William I took the lands on which he built his fort, which became Windsor Castle. The Manor of Clewer continued to receive a rent of 12 shillings per annum from the Crown for this land until the 16th century. The present St Andrew's Church is of Norman construction and it is traditionally believed that William I habitually attended mass there, as there was no chapel within the original castle. It has a 14th-century chantry chapel to the memory of the second wife of the hero of the Hundred Years' War, Sir Bernard Brocas. The family lived in the sub-manor of Clewer Brocas until rebellious activities obliged them to retreat to obscurity at Beaurepaire in Sherborne St John.\n\nThe Clewer Park area of Clewer Village is where the former home of Sir Daniel Gooch once stood.\n\nIt was at Clewer that Charles Thomas Wooldridge murdered his wife Laura Ellen; the execution of Wooldridge in 1896 was immortalised in Oscar Wilde's \"The Ballad of Reading Gaol\".\n\nHatch Lane is the site of the former Community of St John Baptist convent which closed in 2001, when the community moved to Oxfordshire.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2238741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238741", "title": "Bioactive glass", "text": "Bioactive glass\n\nBioactive glasses are a group of surface reactive glass-ceramic biomaterials and include the original bioactive glass, Bioglass. The biocompatibility and bioactivity of these glasses has led them to be investigated extensively for use as implant device in the human body to repair and replace diseased or damaged bones.\n\nThere is tentative evidence that bioactive glass may also be useful in long bone infections. Support from randomized controlled trials, however, is still not available as of 2015.\n\nSolid state NMR spectroscopy has been very useful in elucidating the structure of amorphous solids. Bioactive glasses have been studied by Si and P solid state MAS NMR spectroscopy. The chemical shift from MAS NMR is indicative of the type of chemical species present in the glass. The Si MAS NMR spectroscopy showed that Bioglass 45S5 was a Q2 type-structure with a small amount of Q3 ; i.e., silicate chains with a few crosslinks. The P MAS NMR revealed predominately Q0 species; i.e., PO; subsequent MAS NMR spectroscopy measurements have shown that Si-O-P bonds are below detectable levels \n\nThere have been many variations on the original composition which was Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved and termed Bioglass. This composition is known as 45S5. Other compositions are in the list below.\n\nThe underlying mechanisms that enable bioactive glasses to act as materials for bone repair have been investigated since the first work of Hench et al. at the University of Florida. Early attention was paid to changes in the bioactive glass surface. Five inorganic reaction stages are commonly thought to occur when a bioactive glass is immersed in a physiological environment:\n\n\nLater, it was discovered that the morphology of the gel surface layer was a key component in determining the bioactive response. This was supported by studies on bioactive glasses derived from sol-gel processing. Such glasses could contain significantly higher concentrations of SiO than traditional melt-derived bioactive glasses and still maintain bioactivity (i.e., the ability to form a mineralized hydroxyapatite layer on the surface). The inherent porosity of the sol-gel-derived material was cited as a possible explanation for why bioactivity was retained, and often enhanced with respect to the melt-derived glass.\n\nSubsequent advances in DNA microarray technology enabled an entirely new perspective on the mechanisms of bioactivity in bioactive glasses. Previously, it was known that a complex interplay existed between bioactive glasses and the molecular biology of the implant host, but the available tools did not provide a sufficient quantity of information to develop a holistic picture. Using DNA microarrays, researchers are now able to identify entire classes of genes that are regulated by the dissolution products of bioactive glasses, resulting in the so-called \"genetic theory\" of bioactive glasses. The first microarray studies on bioactive glasses demonstrated that genes associated with osteoblast growth and differentiation, maintenance of extracellular matrix, and promotion of cell-cell and cell-matrix adhesion were up-regulated by conditioned cell culture media containing the dissolution products of bioactive glass.\n\nLarry Hench and colleagues at the University of Florida first developed these materials in the late 1960s and they have been further developed by his research team at the Imperial College London and other researchers worldwide.\n\nBioglass 8625, also called Schott 8625, is a soda-lime glass used for encapsulation of implanted devices. The most common use of Bioglass 8625 is in the housings of RFID transponders for use in human and animal microchip implants. It is patented and manufactured by Schott AG. Bioglass 8625 is also used for some piercings.\n\nBioglass 8625 does not bond to tissue or bone, it is held in place by fibrous tissue encapsulation. After implantation, a calcium-rich layer forms on the interface between the glass and the tissue. Without additional antimigration coating it is subject to migration in the tissue. The antimigration coating is a material that bonds to both the glass and the tissue. Parylene, usually Parylene type C, is often used as such material.\n\nBioglass 8625 has a significant content of iron, which provides infrared light absorption and allows sealing by a light source, e.g. a Nd:YAG laser or a mercury-vapor lamp. The content of FeO yields high absorption with maximum at 1100 nm, and gives the glass a green tint. The use of infrared radiation instead of flame or contact heating helps preventing contamination of the device.\n\nAfter implantation, the glass reacts with the environment in two phases, in the span of about two weeks. In the first phase, alkali metal ions are leached from the glass and replaced with hydrogen ions; small amount of calcium ions also diffuses from the material. During the second phase, the Si-O-Si bonds in the silica matrix undergo hydrolysis, yielding a gel-like surface layer rich on Si-O-H groups. A calcium phosphate-rich passivation layer gradually forms over the surface of the glass, preventing further leaching.\n\nIt is used in microchips for tracking of many kinds of animals, and recently in some human implants. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved use of Bioglass 8625 in humans in 1994.\n\nBioglass 45S5, one of the most important formulations, is composed of SiO, NaO, CaO and PO. Professor Larry Hench developed Bioglass at the University of Florida in the late 1960s. He was challenged by a MASH army officer to develop a material to help regenerate bone, as many Vietnam war veterans suffered badly from bone damage, such that most of them injured in this way lost their limbs.\n\nThe composition was originally selected because of being roughly eutectic.\n\nThe 45S5 name signifies glass with 45 wt.% of SiO and 5:1 molar ratio of Calcium to Phosphorus. Lower Ca/P ratios do not bond to bone.\n\nThe key composition features of Bioglass is that it contains less than 60 mol% SiO, high NaO and CaO contents, high CaO/PO ratio, which makes Bioglass highly reactive to aqueous medium and bioactive.\n\nHigh bioactivity is the main advantage of Bioglass, while its disadvantages includes mechanical weakness, low fracture resistance due to amorphous 2-dimensional glass network. The bending strength of most Bioglass is in the range of 40–60 MPa, which is not enough for load-bearing application. Its Young's modulus is 30–35 GPa, very close to that of cortical bone, which can be an advantage. Bioglass implants can be used in non-load-bearing applications, for buried implants loaded slightly or compressively. Bioglass can be also used as a bioactive component in composite materials or as powder. Sometimes, Bioglass can be converted into an artificial cocaine. This has no known side-effects.\n\nThe first successful surgical use of Bioglass 45S5 was in replacement of ossicles in middle ear, as a treatment of conductive hearing loss. The advantage of 45S5 is in no tendency to form fibrous tissue. Other uses are in cones for implantation into the jaw following a tooth extraction. Composite materials made of Bioglass 45S5 and patient's own bone can be used for bone reconstruction.\n\nBioglass is comparatively soft in comparison to other glasses. It can be machined, preferably with diamond tools, or ground to powder. Bioglass has to be stored in a dry environment, as it readily absorbs moisture and reacts with it.\n\nBioglass 45S5 is manufactured by conventional glass-making technology, using platinum or platinum alloy crucibles to avoid contamination. Contaminants would interfere with the chemical reactivity in organism. Annealing is a crucial step in forming bulk parts, due to high thermal expansion of the material.\n\nHeat treatment of Bioglass reduces the volatile alkali metal oxide content and precipitates apatite crystals in the glass matrix. The resulting glass–ceramic material, named Ceravital, has higher mechanical strength and lower bioactivity.\n\nCompared to Bioglass 45S5, silicate 13-93 bioactive glass is composed of a higher composition of SiO and includes KO and MgO. It is commercially available from Mo-Sci Corp. or can be directly prepared by melting a mixture of NaCO, KCO, MgCO, CaCO, SiO and NaHPO · 2HO in a platinum crucible at 1300 °C and quenching between stainless steel plates. \n\nThe 13-93 glass has received approval for \"in vivo\" use in the USA and Europe. It has more facile viscous flow behavior and a lower tendency to crystallize upon being pulled into fibers. 13-93 bioactive glass powder could be dispersed into a binder to create ink for robocasting or direct ink 3D printing technique. The mechanical properties of the resulting porous scaffolds have been studied in various works of literature. \n\nThe printed 13-93 bioactive glass scaffold in the study by Liu et al. was dried in ambient air, fired to 600 °C under the O atmosphere to remove the processing additives, and sintered in air for 1 hour at 700 °C. In the pristine sample, the flexural strength (11 ± 3 MPa) and flexural modulus (13 ± 2 MPa) are comparable to the minimum value of those of trabecular bones while the compressive strength (86 ± 9 MPa) and compressive modulus (13 ± 2 GPa) are close to the cortical bone values. However, the fracture toughness of the as-fabricated scaffold was 0.48 ± 0.04 MPa·m, indicating that it is more brittle than human cortical bone whose fracture toughness is 2-12 MPa·m. After immersing the sample in a simulated body fluid (SBF) or subcutaneous implantation in the dorsum of rats, the compressive strength and compressive modulus decrease sharply during the initial two weeks but more gradually after two weeks. The decrease in the mechanical properties was attributed to the partial conversion of the glass filaments in the scaffolds into a layer mainly composed of a porous hydroxyapatite-like material.\n\nAnother work by Kolan and co-workers used selective laser sintering instead of conventional heat treatment. After the optimization of the laser power, scan speed, and heating rate, the compressive strength of the sintered scaffolds varied from 41 MPa for a scaffold with ~50% porosity to 157 MPa for dense scaffolds. The \"in vitro\" study using SBF resulted in a decrease in the compressive strength but the final value was similar to that of human trabecular bone. \n\n13-93 porous glass scaffolds were synthesized using a polyurethane foam replication method in the report by Fu et al. The stress-strain relationship was examined in obtained from the compressive test using eight samples with 85 ± 2% porosity. The resultant curve demonstrated a progressive breaking down of the scaffold structure and the average compressive strength of 11 ± 1 MPa, which was in the range of human trabecular bone and higher than competitive bioactive materials for bone repairing such as hydroxyapatite scaffolds with the same extent of pores and polymer-ceramic composites prepared by the thermally induced phase separation (TIPS) method.\n\n"}
{"id": "2238745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238745", "title": "Etherlords", "text": "Etherlords\n\nEtherlords () is a series of fantasy turn-based strategy and card-dueling video games for the PC, by Russian developer Nival Interactive. The first game was published November 12, 2001 by Ravensburger Interactive Media under their mature game label Fishtank Interactive. Prior to worldwide release it was released in Russia (November 9, 2001) as \"Demiurges\" (). It was followed two years later by a sequel, \"Etherlords II\", which was published in Europe by DreamCatcher Interactive and in North America by Strategy First. Nival has stated that a third game isn't out of the question, but so far nothing has been announced.\n\nThe game features a card-based dueling system that borrows heavily from \"\". While the game can be played in a pure dueling mode, the major appeal of Etherlords stems from the scenario mode which utilizes a strategy/adventure map, similar to the one used in Heroes of Might and Magic. Nival later became the developer of HOMM 5.\n\nThe world is governed by a force known as ether and it is wielded by the representatives of chaos, kinetics, synthesis, and vitality. The leaders of the four factions vie for supremacy, with the ultimate goal of transcending into the fabled White Lord, the master of all ether.\n\nIn Etherlords I, you may select between two campaigns: Kinet/Vital or Chaot/Synthet. Some of the maps are shared between the two campaigns, and you simply assume the role of whichever faction you selected. The final mission is one such mission. It also requires that you break with your allies and choose a single faction, and therefore a single avatar, to face the White Lord. The White Lord himself, being a master of all ether, uses spells from multiple schools. Notably he uses a deck that is heavy on Synthet spells, augmented by top picks from the other schools. Upon defeating the White Lord, the victor ascends and becomes the new White Lord.\n\nIn Etherlords II, Diamanda mysteriously returns from the mists of legend. She was mentioned in passing at the end of the Kinet/Vital campaign in Etherlords I. A Kinet hero who was captured by the Synthets for experimentation, she appears now as a hybrid Kinet/Synthet spreading the Pale Plague, a sinister disease which drains beings of their energy. You begin the game as either the Vitals or Chaots, and in a twist, each of these factions' campaigns leads to the campaigns of their enemies—so the campaigns are effectively a choice between Vitals/Synthets or Chaots/Kinets. After completing the main campaigns, you then play as Diamanda. Here you discover that the force behind the Pale Plague is actually the reigning White Lord, who wishes to remain in power for eternity and can only do so by inflicting the world with the Pale Plague. Diamanda was resurrected as a mindless slave for this purpose, but she eventually recovers her sense of self and makes the ultimate sacrifice to stop the White Lord's plans.\n\nThe dueling portion of each game is conceptually identical. The latter game introduces many modifications to existing cards in order to balance them or make them more interesting to play with, as well as a handful of new cards (mostly found as Pale spells).\n\nA much more significant change can be found in the scenario mode. Whereas Etherlords I uses a strictly turn-based strategy map in the style of Heroes of Might and Magic, Etherlords II uses a more character-oriented adventure map in the style of , the minigame that MicroProse created for its of . As a result, the first game emphasizes strategic objectives like securing resources and territory, and using multiple heroes, while the second game eschews those elements in favor of making the player collect cards and manage their decks. The most notable effect of this change is that, aside from occasional time limits, the scenarios in Etherlords II do not feature active dangers—the player is free to explore as he wishes without threat of his infrastructure being destroyed. It is more about fighting through a linear path and taking on each monster in your way, and having to adjust your deck strategy against a series of different opponents.\n\nOf particular interest to players are the new multiplayer features in Etherlords II, including a variation of , a popular sealed-pack competition format.\n\nThere are four factions in Etherlords. The Kinets and Vitals can be considered the protagonists, while the Chaots and Synthets can be considered the antagonists, as represented in each faction's art style and the single-player campaigns.\nFour races dominate the lands of the Etherlords. Each race has its advantages, and each has its ambitions, but all want to dominate. From the Vitals attuned to natures and grace, to the vulgar Chaots, the races encompass all the colors of Ether.\n\nRace of Ether of Chaos\n\nThe Chaots are a tribal race of brutish warriors. Their connection to fire and lightning is represented by a multitude of spells that cause direct damage to creatures. Common Chaos creature types include kobolds, orcs, rats and bats.\nSome say the Chaots are the most powerful heroes of all. But those that speak thus would be wrong. For it is not that Chaots are more powerful than other races, but rather that their power is more vulgar. Chaots believe in the attack, and use their powerful spells and unholy minions to unleash a never-ending assault on their enemies.\n\nRace of Ether of Motion\n\nThe Kinets are regal, winged beings with an association to air and water. The Kinets possess an arsenal of spells that delay enemy actions, including discard effects. This is somewhat necessary because all of the Kinet's low-cost creatures have only 1 or 2 points of toughness. Common Kinetic creature types include aviaks (birdmen), spirits, and lamias (naga).\nSlender and fast, the Kinets prefer speed over brute force. They are an intelligent race and value knowledge over force, and their allies -from the aviaks to the Lamias- feel the same. A Kinet hero will parry his opponent's attacks, wearing him down with endless counterattacks until at last his opponent succumbs.\n\nRace of the Ether of Synthesis\n\nThe Synthets are cyborgs and as such they employ machines and technology. Their spells utilize biological attacks that steadily cause damage over time. Synthetic creatures are mechanical, and common types include worms, mechs, and even dinosaurs.\nThe Synthets are a strange race, part machine, part human -a race of living beings that eschews the living in favor of the machine. As such they consider their allies the strange, pseudo-machines of the Etherlords universe. From quick Wurms to the powerful Cutters, the Synthets field an odd, but aggressive, army.\n\nRace of the Ether of Vitality\n\nThe Vitals are a druidic people who possess an affinity for plants and insects. Bursts of ether allow them to cast larger spells more quickly. They also have many spells to gain life. Common Vitality creatures include ticks, treants, and bees.\nThe Vitals are nature's own, and are close to the currents that run through the green-leafed woods, and speaking streams. A looking-good people, the Vitals rely on nature's magic for their power, and claim the creatures of the woods -from the tick to the snake- as their allies. Their attacks are balanced, employing both a clever defense and relentless assault.\n\n"}
{"id": "2238749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238749", "title": "British Rail Research Division", "text": "British Rail Research Division\n\nThe British Rail Research Division was established in 1964 directly under the control of the British Railways Board, moving into purpose-built premises at the Railway Technical Centre in Derby. The intention was to improve railway reliability and efficiency, while reducing costs and improving revenue. In so doing it became recognised as a centre of excellence and, in time, was providing consultancy to other railways around the world. While it became famous for the Advanced Passenger Train (APT), its activities extended into every area of railway operation. The theoretical rigor of its approach to railway engineering superseded the ad hoc methods that had prevailed previously.\nThe Research Division brought together personnel and expertise from all over the country, including the LMS Scientific Research Laboratory. Its remit was not simply the improvement of existing equipment, or the solution of existing problems, but fundamental research from first principles, into railway operation. The results of its work would go on to inform development by engineers, manufacturers and railways all over the world. For instance, once the initial APT-E experimental project was complete, it passed to the mechanical engineering department to build the APT-P prototype. In time, engineers would be seconded to other countries for varying periods under the trade name \"Transmark\".\n\nOne of the first major projects was the development of profiled/pre-worn wheels which helped counter the tendency of new wheels to hunt. This led to research into vehicle suspensions, and the creation of the four-wheel High Speed Freight Vehicle which proved stable at up to 140 mph when tested on the roller rig.\n\nOther work involved looking at the tamping of ballast, properties of subsoils, and rail prestressing. A large part of the network had been converted to continuous welded rail which, during a hot summer, caused many problems with rail buckling. Although there were no injuries, there were a number of derailments. Attention focused on the costs and benefits of tamping the ballast over the sleeper ends.\n\nThere were extended studies into metal fatigue, and pioneering work in ultrasound crack detection at a time when it was being investigated elsewhere for medical diagnostics. The Research Division was involved in new signalling systems, such as Solid State Interlocking and the Integrated Electronic Control Centre, and in the design of the overhead lines for the West Coast Main Line.\nThe Research Division developed two test tracks. The first was on the old Great Northern Railway line between Egginton Junction and Derby Friargate (later used only as far as Mickleover) and was used by the Train Control Group. When the Advanced Passenger Train was being developed, a second test track was created on the line between Melton Junction and Edwalton (known as the Old Dalby Test Track), which was acquired specifically to test this revolutionary train. The Mickleover test track was closed and lifted in the early 1990s but Old Dalby is still in use today.\n\nIn 1986 finance for the division was moved from the board to the operating divisions. Thus emphasis shifted from pure research to problem solving. In 1989, BR Research became a self-contained unit working under contract to British Rail and other customers, and the way was open for privatisation.\nWhen British Rail was sold into private ownership, the Research Division (which had become \"BR Research Limited\") was bought by AEA Technology in 1996. The resulting business, \"AEA Technology Rail\", was subsequently sold in 2006 to a venture capital company and became DeltaRail Group. Transmark, the consultancy arm, was sold to Halcrow to become Halcrow Transmark.\n\nA somewhat dated display of material relating to the work of the Division was maintained in the Derby Industrial Museum.\n\nThe Research Division had an uneasy relationship with other parts of BR, and like most of the products of Harold Wilson's \"white heat of technology\" speech, were killed off in the early 1980s. The basis of the unease was the traditional approach of most of BR compared with theoretical and aerospace approaches adopted by the Research Division. The hiring of graduates rather than training people up internally also caused tensions.\n\nIt could be somewhat tactless, or perhaps naive, at times. The APT-E was provided with a single driver position central in the cab, at a time when the unions were resisting the loss of the \"second man\" (the fireman in steam days). After its first run out to Duffield the APT-E was black banned by the unions for a year.\n\nNevertheless, its empirical research into vehicle dynamics has produced today's high speed trains, both freight and passenger, including the InterCity 125 and InterCity 225. The concept of a tilting system for the APT became part of the Pendolino, while the products of its signalling and operations control research are used over a significant amount of the British railway system.\n\nMarsden Colin, J. (1989) 25 years of railway research. Oxford Publishing Co. Oxford, SBN 86093 441 1. 112 Pages.\n\n"}
{"id": "2238762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238762", "title": "Bow collector", "text": "Bow collector\n\nA bow collector is one of the three main devices used on tramcars to transfer electric current from the wires above to the tram below. While once very common in continental Europe, it was replaced by the pantograph or the trolley pole, itself often later replaced by the pantograph.\n\nWhen the bow collector was first conceived by German inventor Ernst Werner von Siemens in the late 1880s, American inventor Frank J. Sprague of Virginia had just patented his trolley pole system of current collection from an overhead wire. To avoid contravening this patent, the Siemens company was forced to design its own, unique form of current collection, namely the bow collector. The bow collector was first used by the Siemens electric company in its early electric tramcars in either the late 1880s or early 1890s. The Hobart electric tramway system - the first of its kind in the Southern Hemisphere, opened in 1893 - used Siemens cars with very early bow collectors. Many other continental European and some British tramway systems, including Leeds and Glasgow, also used this method.\n\nThe bow collector is one of the simplest and most reliable methods of current collection used on tramways. The very earliest versions were simply very heavy-gauge wire or steel bars bent into a rectangular shape and mounted long-side-down on the tramcar roof. The height of the collector was such that its top edge would scrape along the wire above. The top section is made of a 1-inch broad (or thereabouts) steel rod, machined to have a bow-shaped cross section, hence the name. This bow shaped rod is referred to as the 'collector plate', and in later models may be up to several inches wide. Unlike many trolley poles, the bow collector does not normally have a revolving base (one exception was in Rome, where the entire assembly could be revolved), but is rather fixed centrally to the tramcar roof.\n\nIn the late 1900s the simple framing methods mentioned above were gradually replaced by more complex and sophisticated methods, but the general mode of operation remained the same. The changes of design are most noticeable on systems where both double- and single-deck cars were used on the same system. Single deck trams usually have tall and lightly constructed collectors with complicated frames to support the heavy cast-steel collector plate, while double deck cars usually have heavier collectors with less complicated frames.\n\nTo maintain good electrical contact, the bow collector must exert quite strong pressure on the wire above, and so complicated systems of springs or weights were put into use to ensure good electrical contact, and hence efficient operation was maintained.\n\nThe steel rails on the tracks act as the electrical return.\n\nProperly the bow collector should be mounted in such a way so that the top edge of the collector plate would rise several inches above the wire when the collector frame is standing straight up. Thus the collector usually leans opposite to the direction of travel; when the time comes to travel in the opposite direction, the collector must be swung over. To allow this to happen, the overhead wire must be raised by several inches at places where the bows are swung over, such as terminals and turn-outs. This operation is usually achieved by ropes and pulleys. The collector is folded down to a horizontal position when the car is not in use.\n\nSome early cars had no means to swing the bows over. It was thought that this would happen automatically when the tramcar started travelling the other way, but collectors such as these were a failure.\n\nMost Soviet trams (of which some are still in use in ex-USSR) had no means to swing the bows over. These trams were not designed to travel two ways. Another example is KTV-55-2 tramcar which had two bow collectors for the two directions of travelling.\n\nThe bow collector has fewer moving parts than the trolley pole, but is heavier and sometimes more complicated to construct. The construction of overhead wires for bow collectors is simpler than trolley pole wiring. As bow collectors do not have revolving mountings, the collector cannot jump off the wire or follow the wrong one at intersections, as trolley poles sometimes do. Thus overhead 'frogs' and guides for trolley poles are not necessary with bow collectors. Bow collectors are, however, much noisier than trolley poles.\n\nThe overhead wires for bow collectors are stretched tighter than for trolley poles, and straight sections are 'staggered', that is, the wire does not run completely straight down the centreline of the track, but rather zig-zags slightly across a small distance. This distributes wear across the bow collector's collector plate, and extends the collector's life.\n\nIn addition to some vintage tramways, bow collectors are still used in some tram systems in the former Soviet Union, e. g., in Kazan, Minsk, and Dzerzhinsk.\n\nOn the Isle of Man, the Snaefell Mountain Railway's implementation is unusual in that the overhead wire is slack and free to hang in a catenary. Hopkinson bow collectors are used, to avoid problems with trolley poles in high winds on the mountainous route – the Snaefell line also uses a Fell rail for braking. Each car has two rigidly vertical bow collectors, with a slack wire above them making contact under its own weight. The collectors are not quite tall enough to make contact with the wire at its suspension points. They are far enough apart, relative to the pole spacing, so that while one is out of contact with the wire the other is mid span and making good contact. The collectors can only be lowered by unbolting them at roof level, whilst the power is off. This inability to isolate them easily hampered fire fighting when car 5 caught fire in 1970.\n\nSimilar collectors were also used at first on the nearby and slightly earlier Manx Electric Railway. They gave trouble initially with poor contact and so the slack wire system was developed. A tensioned wire usually gave a good contact but broke contact when the collector passed the pole. Slackening the wire and deliberately lifting it up clear of the collector at the poles allowed its weight to give a reliable contact over the other collector, spaced to be at the midpoint between poles. A revised collector was in use within the first few years, by 1900. A small hinged bow frame was placed on top of the fixed uprights, giving a sprung contact. Bow collectors did not last though and were replaced with trolley poles.\n\n"}
{"id": "2238765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238765", "title": "Static induction thyristor", "text": "Static induction thyristor\n\nThe static induction thyristor (SIT, SITh) is a thyristor with a buried gate structure in which the gate electrodes are placed in n-base region. Since they are normally on-state, gate electrodes must be negatively or anode biased to hold off-state. It has low noise, low distortion, high audio frequency power capability. The turn-on and turn-off times are very short, typically 0.25 microseconds.\n\nThe first static induction thyristor was invented by Japanese engineer Jun-ichi Nishizawa in 1975. It was capable of conducting large currents with a low forward bias and had a small turn-off time. It had a self controlled gate turn-off thyristor that was commercially available through Tokyo Electric Co. (now Toyo Engineering Corporation) in 1988. The initial device consisted of a p+nn+ diode and a buried p+ grid.\n\nIn 1999, an analytical model of the SITh was developed for the PSPICE circuit simulator. In 2010, a newer version of SITh was developed by Zhang Caizhen, Wang Yongshun, Liu Chunjuan and Wang Zaixing, the new feature of which was its high forward blocking voltage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2238777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238777", "title": "Hurricane Emily (2005)", "text": "Hurricane Emily (2005)\n\nHurricane Emily was the earliest forming Category 5 Atlantic hurricane on record in a season and the most intense to form before August. A powerful, early season, Cape Verde tropical cyclone that caused significant damage across the Caribbean Sea to Mexico, the storm formed on July 10, 2005, in the central Atlantic Ocean before passing through the Windward Islands on July 14. Tracking generally towards the west-northwest, the storm gradually intensified as it traversed the Caribbean, peaking as a Category 5 hurricane on July 16, marking the earliest date for a storm to do so during the course of a given year. The system subsequently made landfall in the Yucatán Peninsula as a Category 4. Quickly crossing the peninsula, Emily emerged into the Gulf of Mexico and reorganized. On July 20, the storm struck Tamaulipas as a major hurricane and rapidly dissipated within 24 hours. The storm caused significant damage along its path, with up to $1.01 billion (2005 USD) in damages recorded, as well as causing 17 fatalities. Emily is the latest (and costliest) Category 5 storm to not have its name retired.\n\nOn July 6, a tropical wave moved off the coast of Africa. Moving westward, the disturbance gradually organized until July 10, at which point convection became more concentrated, and it is estimated Tropical Depression Five formed in the central tropical Atlantic that evening. Late on July 11, it strengthened and was named Tropical Storm Emily. Initially forecast to strengthen rapidly and move west-northwest through the Greater Antilles, Emily instead moved almost due west toward the Windward Islands, remaining a moderate tropical storm. The storm languished while moving quickly west, and struggled with maintaining its form. Contrary to the normal occurrence that hurricanes leave a cold wake behind, Hurricane Dennis had made portions of the Caribbean Sea warmer, and therefore more favorable for tropical cyclone development. Late on July 13, Emily strengthened rapidly and reached hurricane strength while passing north of Tobago and entering the eastern Caribbean. On July 14, Emily made landfall in northern Grenada with 85 mph (135 km/h) winds. Overall damage was fairly minor to moderate as the island were still repairing from a much more destructive and powerful storm such as Ivan, 10 months ago.\n\nThe intensification trend picked up again the next day with a fairly rapid drop in the storm's central pressure as it entered the southeastern Caribbean Sea, a region typically unfavorable for intensification. Hurricane Emily's winds increased in reaction, briefly bringing the storm to Category 4 strength early on July 15. During the day, the storm's strength fluctuated greatly, dropping to a Category 2 storm and then rebuilding to Category 4. On July 16, Emily strengthened considerably, making it the strongest hurricane ever on record to form in the month of July with peak winds of 160 mph (260 km/h), the earliest known Category 5 hurricane in the Atlantic basin. Initially at this point Emily was thought to have peaked as a Category 4 storm, but the post-storm analysis showed it was indeed a Category 5 hurricane. Unrelated to Emily, Typhoon Haitang developed and intensified into a Category 5-equivalent super typhoon around the same time Emily intensified into a Category 5 hurricane, marking the first time since Typhoons Ivan and Joan in 1997 when two tropical cyclones of Category 5 strength existed simultaneously in the Northern Hemisphere. The storm weakened slightly as it continued westward, and remained a Category 4 while passing south of Jamaica and, on July 17, the Cayman Islands. Emily continued on its nearly straight track to the west-northwest, weakening somewhat but remaining at Category 4 until striking Cozumel just before mainland landfall at Playa del Carmen at 06:30 UTC on July 18. Sustained winds were 135 mph (215 km/h), and the eyewall passed directly over Cozumel.\nThe center of circulation emerged over the Gulf of Mexico later that morning. Passage over land disrupted the hurricane's center of circulation, and it had weakened to a minimal hurricane with wind speeds of 75 mph (120 km/h). However, several hours over the warm waters of the western Gulf provided the energy needed for Emily to regenerate, and by midnight wind speeds were increasing. The increase in wind speed stalled, but the storm continued to become better organized. Emily started to show very symmetrical outflow, but the hurricane's strongest winds were being found at three different distances from the center. However, the outer wind radii subsided in the end, and the inner core prevailed. The result was a rapid strengthening of the inner core on the evening of July 19. The pressure dropped about 30 millibars and the winds went from 90 mph (145 km/h) to more than 125 mph (200 km/h), all within a few hours.\n\nFurther strengthening was expected by forecasters, but did not come. The storm's motion slowed, and the center began wobbling erratically toward the coast. The storm made landfall around 11:00 UTC on July 20 near San Fernando in Tamaulipas. The storm had sustained winds of 125 mph (200 km/h), Category 3 on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale. After heading inland over northeast Mexico, it dissipated over the Sierra Madre Oriental on July 21.\n\nIn Mexico, tens of thousands of tourists and residents were evacuated from the beach resorts in and around Cancún, the Riviera Maya, and Cozumel. Hotel guests were evacuated on Saturday afternoon, and staff on Sunday afternoon. Though some hotel guests in second floor rooms and above were given the option to be bussed into the center of Cancun to safe houses and shelters or to stay and wait out the storm in only the modern built hotels and resorts. Most of the remaining guests were restricted to their rooms and were not allowed out on the beach areas. No alcohol was sold in Cancun for 36 hours prior to the arrival of the storm, in an attempt to avoid drunken tourists being injured during the night. Two helicopter pilots were killed when their aircraft crashed while evacuating offshore oil platforms operated by Pemex. A German resident was electrocuted while on his roof in Playa del Carmen.\n\nOn July 14, Emily hit Grenada which was still recovering from the impact of Hurricane Ivan less than a year earlier. Emily resulted in one reported fatality and significant damage in the northern part of the country, including Carriacou which had been spared the worst effects of Ivan. 16 houses were destroyed and well over 200 more were damaged, and two of the main hospitals were flooded. Damages in Grenada amounted to $110.4 million.\n\nLandslides were reported in eastern Jamaica, triggered by heavy rain as the storm passed south of the island. Five people were killed due to an accident caused by flash flooding. Damages in Jamaica were estimated at $65 million. Damage was also reported in Trinidad and Tobago, where landslides and flooding damaged several homes. In Honduras, a man drowned in a river swollen by rains from Emily.\n\nStriking the Yucatán Peninsula on July 18 as a Category 4 hurricane, widespread damage was expected from 135 mph (215 km/h) winds; however, these winds were confined to a small area around Emily's center. Areas in Playa del Carmen, Tulum and Cozumel sustained the most severe impact. In a few instances, concrete utility poles were snapped in half by powerful wind gusts. Due to the relatively fast movement of Emily, rainfall was fairly light, peaking at . Few meteorological reports exist during Emily's passage of the Yucatán, though an unofficial station recorded a storm surge of in San Miguel, Cozumel. Along the mainland, surge heights were generally less than . Additionally, waves reached , resulting in some beach erosion and damage to dunes and coral reefs. Additionally, of retaining walls sustained damage, leaving areas vulnerable to flooding from future storms.\n\nThe high winds produced by Emily caused considerable impact in Quintana Roo, especially in the municipality of Solidaridad, leaving nearly 200,000 residences without power. In terms of structural damage, 851 homes were impacted in varying degrees. Roughly 13,345 acres (5,400 hectares) of forests and agricultural land was affected by the storm; some swathes of trees experienced defoliation. The most substantial losses associated with the hurricane stemmed from the tourism industry, with hotels experiencing 947 million pesos ($88.7 million) worth of damage. More than 12,500 rooms, nearly one-fifth of the state's available hotel infrastructure, sustained damage. Overall, damage in the state reached 1.11 billion pesos ($104.3 million).\n\nEmily's second landfall as a strong Category 3 hurricane brought significant damage to the northeast coast of Mexico. In the fishing community of Laguna Madre, over 80% of the buildings were destroyed as a result of the storm surge. Several communities on the remote coast of Tamaulipas were isolated after the storm, and major coastal flooding was reported along with heavy wind damage, with numerous homes destroyed. Inland flooding was also reported in Monterrey.\n\nCommunication to the Riviera Maya area was difficult after the storm; not all cellular phones were receiving coverage to the area, land lines were down, and electricity was out. About 18,000 people in 20 low-lying communities in the state of Tamaulipas, just south of the U.S.-Mexican border, were evacuated. Including losses sustained by the oil industry, damage in Mexico amounted to 8.87 billion pesos ($834.3 million).\n\nIn southern Texas, damage was relatively minor despite the proximity of the storm. Portions of the state experienced tropical storm force winds and gusts as high as 65 mph (100 km/h), resulting in scattered roof damage. Along the coast, a storm surge of flooded portions of Texas State Highway 100. No significant structural damage was reported, although some trees were down and over 30,000 customers lost electricity. Rainfall from the storm peaked at 5.2 inches in Mercedes, Texas. Additionally, eight tornadoes touched down in Texas as a result of Emily, damaging or destroying several homes. Some positive effects were noted; the remains of Emily passed farther west into Texas and delivered some badly needed rainfall, helping relieve a drought. Agricultural losses in Texas amounted to $4.7 million, while property losses reached $225,000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2238785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238785", "title": "Cross Island, Mumbai", "text": "Cross Island, Mumbai\n\nCross Island, locally known as \"Chinal Tekdi\", is an uninhabited or sparsely inhabited island located in Mumbai harbour, India, between the coast at Dockyard Road, and Elephanta Island, about 400 m from Ferry Wharf on the east coast of Mumbai. The island is host to an oil refinery and several large gas holders, and features the ruins of a fort.\nThe fort occupies almost the entire island, and was perhaps built by the Portuguese or the British settlers. There are several cannons strewn across the fort, and one very large gun. The top of the fort has a mound with a solitary large Ficus (Peepal) tree.\n\nThe island is sparsely occupied by fisher folk, although it seems to have no natural source of fresh water. At the base of the fort, some brick and mortar construction lies in dilapidated condition. This is obviously more recent as compared to the fort and seems to have been deserted by the occupants for unknown reasons.\nWhile there is no guided tour or regular transport available to reach the island, it is possible to get such a service from local fishermen around ferry wharf for about Rs. 1000 for a 6-seater boat.\n"}
{"id": "2238792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238792", "title": "Eagle Wing", "text": "Eagle Wing\n\nEagle Wing (otherwise known as Thirteen Down) is a Patience game which is played with a deck of 52 playing cards. The game takes its name from the tableau which depicts a bird, particularly an eagle, spreading its wings in flight.\n\nFirst, 13 cards are dealt face down as one pile. They will act as the \"trunk\" of the eagle, i.e. the reserve. Then, four cards are dealt each to the left and right of the trunk (eight cards in all). They act as the \"wings\" of the eagle, i.e. the tableau. After these 21 cards are dealt, a twenty-second card is placed above the \"eagle.\" This is the base of the first foundation and the three other foundations must start with cards with the same rank.\n\nThe cards on the wings are available only to be built on the foundations, which are built up by suit and round-the-corner (aces placed on top of kings). Gaps are immediately filled with cards from the trunk, turning it face up.\n\nWhen there are no more moves to be made from the wings, the stock is dealt one card at a time to be played onto the foundations. Unplayed cards are placed on the waste pile, the top card of which is available for play. The stock can be dealt three times, i.e. two redeals are allowed by picking up the wastepile and turning it face down.\n\nWhen the trunk is down to its last card, it is turned face up and immediately available to be built onto the foundations without having to wait for an empty space on the wings. Afterwards, any space on the wings may be filled with a card from the stock or the wastepile.\n\nThe game ends when all moves have been made after the stock has been dealt the third time. The game is won when all cards are built up in the foundations.\n"}
{"id": "2238802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238802", "title": "The Main Event (album)", "text": "The Main Event (album)\n\nThe Main Event was the debut album released by Fingathing in November 2000 on Grand Central Records.\n\n"}
{"id": "2238803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238803", "title": "WHN", "text": "WHN\n\nWHN may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2238823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238823", "title": "Tatiana Perebiynis", "text": "Tatiana Perebiynis\n\nTatiana Yurevna Perebiynis (; born 15 December 1982) is a former professional tennis player from Ukraine. She reached the Wimbledon junior girls' singles final in 2000, and won the Wimbledon juniors doubles final that same year. In 2008, she reached her career-high ranking of world No. 55.\n\nTatiana Perebiynis was coached by her husband, Dimitriy \"Dima\" Zadorozhniy. They married on 15 October 2005 in Kharkiv. Her father, Yuriy Perebiynis, is retired and her mother, Alla Lihova, is an economist at a bank.\n\nShe lists winning the Wimbledon junior doubles in 2000 and reaching the final in singles that same year as memorable experiences.\n\nAlthough Perebiynis has not won a WTA Tour singles title but she has a runner-up in single when she lost to Australian Alicia Molik in Stockholm in 2004. She did, however, win six WTA tournaments in doubles. Her most notable doubles titles are her two victories at the J&S Cup in Warsaw, partnering with Barbora Strýcová (2005) and Vera Dushevina (2007).\n\nHer best performance at a Grand Slam tournament came at Wimbledon in 2005, when she partnered with Australia's Paul Hanley in mixed doubles. The pair reached the final, losing in straight sets to Mahesh Bhupathi and Mary Pierce.\n\nThe following year, she partnered with fellow Ukrainian Yuliana Fedak for the qualifying event of women's doubles at Wimbledon. The pair qualified for the event, then reached the semi-finals where they lost to Paola Suárez and Virginia Ruano Pascual.\n\nWhile Perebiynis was a talented junior and a respected doubles player, she has had less success in singles on the main tour. Though she swiftly climbed up the ranks early in her career, reaching the third round at both Roland Garros and Wimbledon in 2004, her tennis career faltered when she was diagnosed with a viral infection in mid-2005. She was forced out of competition for over six months and, as a result, her ranking dropped to outside of the top 200. In October 2007, Perebiynis re-entered the top 100 after qualifying for the Kremlin Cup, jumping over 30 places to 97 in the rankings.\n\nDoha became a Tier I event in 2008. San Diego and Zurich are no longer Tier I events.\n\n"}
{"id": "2238830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238830", "title": "Korean literature", "text": "Korean literature\n\nKorean literature is the body of literature produced by Koreans, mostly in the Korean language and sometimes in Classical Chinese. For much of Korea's 1,500 years of literary history, it was written in Hanja. It is commonly divided into classical and modern periods, although this distinction is sometimes unclear. Korea is home to the world's first metal and copper type, the world's earliest known printed document and the world's first featural script.\n\nClassical Korean literature has its roots in traditional folk beliefs and folk tales of the Korean peninsula. There are four major traditional poetic forms: hyangga (\"native songs\"); pyolgok (\"special songs\"), or changga (\"long poems\"); sijo (\"current melodies\"); and kasa (\"verses\"). Other poetic forms that flourished briefly include the kyonggi-style, in the 14th and 15th centuries, and the akchang (\"words for songs\") in the 15th century. The most representative akchang is Yongbi och'on ka (1445–47; Songs of Flying Dragons), a cycle compiled in praise of the founding of the Yi dynasty. Korean poetry originally was meant to be sung, and its forms and styles reflect its melodic origins. The basis of its prosody is a line of alternating groups of three or four syllables, which is probably the most natural rhythm to the language.\n\nOne famous earliest poetry or lyric song was the Gonghuin (Konghu-in) by Yeo-ok during Gojoseon.\n\n\"Hyangga\" (hangul: 향가, hanja: 鄕 歌) was written in Korean using modified hanja in a system that is called idu (hangul: 이두, hanja: 吏 讀), literally \"clerk's writings.\" Specifically, the variety of idu used to write \"hyangga\" was sometimes called \"\"hyangchal\"\". Idu was a system using hanja characters to express Korean. The key to the system was to use some hanja characters for their intended purpose, their meaning, and others for their pronunciation, ignoring their pictographic meaning. On the surface, it appears to be a complicated, even incomprehensible system, but after using the system one becomes comfortable with certain characters consistently standing for Korean words.\n\n\"Hyangga\" was the first uniquely Korean form of poetry. Only twenty five survive. The \"Samguk Yusa\" contains 14 poems and the \"Gyunyeojeon\", a set of biographies of prominent monks, contains eleven poems. Both these classic works were written much after the Unified Silla, in the subsequent Goryeo dynasty, yet the poems in the Samguk Yusa appear to be based on no-longer-extant records actually from the Silla period.\n\n\"Hyangga\" are characterized by a number of formal rules. The poems may consist of four, eight or ten lines. The ten-line poems are the most developed, structured into three sections with four, four, and two lines respectively. Many of the ten-line poems were written by Buddhist monks, and Buddhist themes predominate the poems. Another dominant theme was \"death\". Many of the poems are eulogies to monks, to warriors, and to family members.\n\nThe Goryeo period was marked by a growing use of hanja characters. Hyangga largely disappeared as a form of Korean literature, and \"\"Goryeo gayo\"\" (hangul: 고려가요, literally \"Goryeo songs\") became more popular. Most of the Goryeo songs were transmitted orally and many survived into the Joseon period, when some of them were written down using hangul.\n\nThe poetic form of the Goryeo songs is known as \"pyolgok\" or \"changga\" (hangul: 별곡). It flourished during the middle and late Koryo dynasty. It is characterized by a refrain either in the middle or at the end of each stanza. The refrain establishes a mood or tone that carries the melody and spirit of the poem or links a poem composed of discrete parts with differing contents. The theme of most of these anonymous poems is love, the joys and torments of which are expressed in frank and powerful language. The poems were sung to musical accompaniments chiefly by women entertainers, known as kisaeng. There are two distinct forms: \"dallyeonche\" (단련체)and \"yeonjanche\" (연잔체). The former is a shorter form in which the entire poem was put into a single stanza, whereas the latter is a more extended form in which the poem is put into several stanzas. The Goryeo songs are characterized by their lack of clear form, and by their increased length. Most are direct in their nature, and cover aspects of common life.\n\nSijo and gasa are closely linked to the development of hangul in the early Joseon period. As hangul was created, \"akjang\" was developed as a way to note musical scores using the Korean script. King Sejong himself is credited with a compilation of Buddhist songs.\n\nSijo (literally \"current tune\") was common in the Joseon period. Although its poetic form was established in the late Goryeo period, it did not become popular until the Joseon period. Many of the sijo reflected Confucian thought; the theme of loyalty is common. Sijo are characterized by a structure of three stanzas of four feet each. Each foot contains three to four syllables except on the third stanza, where the 1st foot is supposed to have 3 syllables and the 2nd foot can have as many as seven. Sijo are thought to have been popular with common people.\n\nGasa is a form of verse, although its content can include more than the expression of individual sentiment, such as moral admonitions. Gasa is a simple form of verse, with twinned feet of three or four syllables each. Some regard gasa a form of essay. Common themes in gasa were nature, the virtues of gentlemen, or love between man and woman.\n\nKorean prose literature can be divided into narratives, fiction, and literary miscellany. Narratives include myths, legends, and folktales found in the written records. The principal sources of these narratives are the two great historical records compiled in Classical Chinese during the Koryo era: Samguk sagi (1146; \"Historical Record of the Three Kingdoms\") and Samguk yusa (1285; \"Memorabilia of the Three Kingdoms\"). The most important myths are those concerning the Sun and the Moon, the founding of Korea by Tangun, and the lives of the ancient kings. The legends touch on place and personal names and natural phenomena. The folktales include stories about animals; ogres, goblins, and other supernatural beings; kindness rewarded and evil punished; and cleverness and stupidity. Because the compiler of the Samguk yusa was a Zen master, his collection includes the lives of Buddhist saints; the origin of monasteries, stupas, and bells; accounts of miracles performed by Buddhas and bodhisattvas; and other tales rich in shamanist and Buddhist elements. It also includes the 14 hyangga mentioned above. The compilations made in the Koryo period preserved the stories of prehistoric times, of the Three Kingdoms, and of the Silla dynasty and have remained the basic sources for such material. Later compilations made during the Yi dynasty served as a major source of materials for later Yi dynasty fiction.\n\nKorean fiction can be classified in various ways. First, there is Korean fiction written in Chinese and that written in Korean. Second, there are the short works of one volume, \"medium\" works of about 10 volumes, and long works of more than 10 volumes. Third, there are works of yangban writers and those of common writers. In respect to the last classification, however, there is also a group of fictional works in which the viewpoints of the yangban and the commoner are combined. Most of this fiction was based on the narratives mentioned above, the author adding incidents and characters to the original story. It is not possible to assign definite dates or authors to most of these works. The stories are generally didactic, emphasizing correct moral conduct, and almost always have happy endings. Another general characteristic is that the narratives written by yangban authors are set in China, whereas those written by commoners are set in Korea.\nThe literary miscellany consists of random jottings by the yangban on four broad topics: history, biography, autobiography, and poetic criticism. Like fiction, these jottings were considered to be outside of the realm of officially sanctioned Chinese prose (e.g., memorials, eulogies, and records), but they provided the yangban with an outlet for personal expression. Thus, their portrayal of the customs, manners, and spirit of the times in which they were composed make these writings an essential part of Korean prose.\nThe first known classical work of Korean fiction is \"Geumo Sinhwa\" (金鰲新話 금오신화 New stories from Mount Geumo) by Kim Si-seup (김시습). It was written in Chinese. From the 17th century onwards, fiction became increasingly popular and more readily available through book rental schemes.\n\nPansori-based fiction was a particularly popular form of fiction, appearing in the late 17th and early 18th century, based on the five orally transmitted pansori (Chunhyangga, Simcheongga, Heungbuga, Jeokbyeokga and Sugungga). Although based on older traditional songs, it was composed in its present form in the 1870s by the pansori writer, and characterized by human stereotypes of ordinary people of the time.\n\nIn the mid-Joseon period, parable-like stories were published. By the end of the Joseon period, many writers had started to deviate from the orthodox conventions of classical Chinese literature, and literature about common people such as merchants, thieves, or gisaeng were commonplace.\n\n\nOral literature includes all texts that were orally transmitted from generation to generation until the invention of Hangul (han'gul)--ballads, legends, mask plays, puppet-show texts, and p'ansori (\"story singing\") texts.\nIn spite of the highly developed literary activity from early in Korean history, song lyrics were not recorded until the invention of Hangul (han'gul). These orally transmitted texts are categorized as ballads and are classified according to singer (male or female), subject matter (prayer, labour, leisure), and regional singing style (capital area, western, and southern). The songs of many living performers, some of whom have been designated as \"intangible national treasures\" by the South Korean government, are still being recorded.\nLegends include all those folk stories handed down orally and not recorded in any of the written records. These legends were for long the principal form of literary entertainment enjoyed by the common people. They deal with personified animals, elaborate tricks, the participation of the gods in human affairs, and the origin of the universe.\nThe mask plays are found in Hahoe, Chinju, T'ongyong, Kimhae, and Tongnae in North and South Kyongsang provinces; Yangju in Kyonggi Province; Pongsan in Hwanghae Province; and Pukch'ong in south Hamgyong Province. The most representative plays are the sandae kuk genre of Yangju, the pyolsin kut of Hahoe, and the okwangdae nori (five-actor play) of Chinju. Although the origin of these plays is uncertain, they are generally presumed to have developed from primitive communal ceremonies. Gradually, the ceremonial aspect of the plays disappeared, and their dramatic and comic possibilities were exploited. The dialogue was somewhat flexible, the actors being free to improvise and satirize as the occasion demanded. The plays were not performed on a stage, and there were no precise limits as to the space or time in which the performances took place. The audience also traditionally responded vocally to the play as well as passively watching it. The organization of the mask plays—through repetition and variety—achieves a remarkable effect of dramatic unity. (see also dramatic literature)\nOnly two puppet-show texts are extant, Kkoktukaksi nori (also called Pak Ch'omjikuk; \"Old Pak's Play\") and Mansok chung nori. Both titles are derived from names of characters in the plays. No theory has been formulated as to the origin and development of these plays. The plots of the puppet plays, like those of the mask plays, are full of satiric social criticism. The characters—Pak Ch'omji, governor of P'yongam, Kkoktukaksi, Buddhist monk, and Hong Tongji—dance and sing, enacting familiar tales that expose the malfeasance of the ruling classes. (see also puppetry)\nThe final type of folk literature is found in the texts of p'ansori of the Yi dynasty. These texts were first recorded in the 19th century as verse, but the written forms were later expanded into p'ansori fiction, widely read among the common people. This transformation from poetry to narrative fiction was easily accomplished, since p'ansori were always narrative. Originally the entire p'ansori performance repertoire consisted of 12 madang (\"titles\"). Although all 12 remain as narrative fiction, only five of them are sung today. The texts evolved gradually from the legends, which provided their sources and were altered and expanded as they were passed from one performer to another.\n\n\"Yongbi eocheonga\" (hangul: 용비어천가, hanja: 龍飛御天歌) literally means \"Songs of the Dragons Flying to Heaven\". It was compiled during the reign of Sejong the Great as an official recognition of the Joseon dynasty and its ancestral heritage as the forerunners of Joseon, the Golden Age of Korea. The Songs were composed through the efforts of a committee of Confucian philologists and literati in the form of 125 cantos.\n\nThis compilation was the first piece of Korean text to depart from a long history reliant on Chinese characters and be recorded in Hangul, the first and official alphabet of Korea. There are several underlying themes in addition to the establishment of the Joseon Dynasty which are of significant importance to understanding the events that provoked the creation of these poems: linear events that took place in China, the apotheosis of virtuous Kings proceeding the fall of the Goryeo Dynasty, and Confucian political and philosophical ideologies of the era in rejection to Buddhism. Each of the poems included in the work convey deep-seated feelings of nationalism and a proud proclamation of cultural independence from the Mongol empire.\n\nModern Korean literature developed against the background of the Joseon Dynasty's fall. This first period of modern Korean literature is often called the \"enlightenment\". This period was to a large extent influenced by the 1894 Gabo Reforms which introduced Western-style schools and newspapers emerged. Many newspapers published \"sijo\", \"gasa\", or even serial novels and led to the emergence of professional writers. \"Sinchesi\" (hangul: 신체시, literally \"new poetry\") was established, and contributed to the formation of modern free verse poetry which is called \"Jayusi\" (hangul: 자유시). \"Sinchesi\" abandoned the fixed metaphor found in classical Korean poetry, influenced by the French \"vers libre\".\n\nMany biographical works were published in the late Joseon period where the main character was often depicted as a hero. These works cultivated patriotism and national consciousness.\n\nModern Korean literature gradually developed under the influence of Western cultural contacts based on trade and economic development. The first printed work of fiction in Korean was John Bunyan's \"Pilgrim's Progress\" (in Korean: 천로역정 \"Cheonno-yeokjeong\"), translated by James Scarth Gale (1893).\n\nChristian religion found its way into Korea, culminating in the first complete edition of the Bible in Korean published in 1910. However, it was mostly Western aesthetic schools that influenced Korean literature. Music and classical poetry, formerly considered one as part of \"changgok\", were increasingly perceived as old-fashioned and out of date.\n\nModern literature is often linked with the development of hangul, which helped increase working class literacy rates. Hangul reached its peak of popularity in the second half of the 19th century, resulting in a major renaissance. Sinsoseol, for instance, are novels written in hangul.\n\nDuring the period of Japanese imperial rule (1910–1945), Japanese literature had deep connections with the establishment of modern literature in Korea due to some of the founders of modern literature in Korea having come from Korean students who had studied in Japan during the Meiji period. Their representatives are Choe Nam-seon and Yi Kwang-su. Many expressions of the late Joseon period, with their focus on self-reliance and independence, were no longer possible. Ernest Bethell's \"Taehan Maeil Shinbo\" (大韓每日申報) provided for Korean writers a brief opportunity of artistic expression free from censorship, from July 1904 till May 1909, but after control of the paper was seized by the Government-General uncensored Korean publishing became impossible.\n\nLee In-jik's \"New Novel: Bloody Tears\"(in Korean: 혈의 누 \"Hyeorui-nu\"), which was published in 1906 in \"Mansebo\", later became a universal name for \"New Novel\". \"New novel\" refers to the works created for about 10 years before 1917. \"New Novel\" generally involved realistic problems as sanctions. Accordingly, it dealt with topics related to self-reliance, freedom of association, the promotion of new education, enlightenment, and the destruction of tradition and superstition, and the act of salvation of enlightenment.\n\nWith the Samil Movement in 1919 came a new form of Korean literature. Many writers exhibited a more positive attitude, trying to cope with the national situation at the time. Literature focused on self-discovery, and increasingly on concrete reality. Artistic endeavors were supported by new nationalist newspapers.\n\nIn 1919 Kim Tong-in and Kim Hyok founded a literary magazine, \"Changjo\" (창조 \"Creation\") marking the starting point of contemporary Korean literature. The magazine was followed in 1920 by \"Kaebyok\" (개벽), and \"Pyeho\" (폐허 廢墟 \"The Ruins\", Hwang Song-u and Yom Sang-sop); in 1921 \"Changmichon\" (장미촌); in 1922 \"Paekcho\" (백조 \"White Tide\", Yi Sang-hwa and Hyon Chin-gon); and in 1923 \"Kumsong\" (금성 \"Gold Star\", of Yi Chang-hui and Yang Chu-dong). The literary magazines which appeared during the 1920s and 1930s laid the basis for the future development of modern Korean literature. Almost all of these magazines were ordered to discontinue publication in the 1940s as the Japanese tightened their grip with the spread of their aggressive war to the Pacific and all of Southeast Asia. The important task of the 1920s was to work out ways of introducing foreign elements into literary works dealing with the reality of colonial rule in Korea.\n\nMany novels of the 1920s centered on themes of the suffering of intellectuals. The lives of farmers were often depicted as pathetic. As the Japanese government strengthened ideological coercion during the 1930s, Korean literature was directly affected. Many novels of the time experimented with new literary styles and techniques.\n\n\nPoets included: Han Yong-un, Buddhist reformer and poet: \"Nimui chimmuk\" (The Silence of My Beloved, 1925), Chang Man-yong, Chu Yo-han, Hwang Sok-woo (황석우), Kim Myeong-sun, Kim Sowol, Kim Yeong-nang, Pak Tu-jin, Yi Sang, Yi Sang-hwa (이상화, 李相和), Yu Chi-hwan, Yun Dong-ju, and Yi Yuk-sa (이육사, 李陸史; 1904–1944) tortured to death by the Japanese military police.\n\nAfter 1945, Korea soon found itself divided into North and South. The Korean War led to the development of literature centered on the wounds and chaos of war and tragedy.\n\nNorth Korea (DPRK)\nSouth Korea (ROK)\n\nMuch of the post-war literature in South Korea deals with the daily lives of ordinary people, and their struggles with national pain. The collapse of the traditional Korean value system is another common theme of the time. In the post-war period, a traditionalist movement emerged: going back to the roots of traditional rhythms and folk sentiments. Other poets are linked to an experimentalist movement, attempting to bring new experiences to Korean poetry.\n\nIn the 1960s many South Korean writers started to reject post-war literature as sentimental escapism. While some South Korean authors reflected traditional humanism, writings by many others reflect deep alienation and despair. They sought to engage the readers with the political reality of the time. This led poetry and literature in general to become an important means of political expression. Also remarkable for the development of literature in 1960s was the influence of Western modernism. The 1970s saw the emergence of literature that was anti-establishment and dealt with the concerns of rapid industrialization, such as the neglect of farmers.\n\nAt the same time, literature concerned with the national division (\"bundan soseol\") became more popular. At the beginning of the twenty-first century, the national division is still a common theme, but classic stories are also popular. Some North Korean writers are very highly appreciated in the South and in 2005 writers from both Koreas held a joint literary congress.\n\nUntil the 1980s Korean literature was largely unknown outside of the peninsula. The kind of works translated has become increasingly diverse, and the quality of the translations has improved.* \"Flowers of Fire\" (1974) was one of the first anthologies of Korean literature published in English. In non-English-speaking countries there are fewer Korean works translated, though LTI Korea has also promoted translations in German, Spanish, French and Polish. The increased popularity of Korean film has increased interest in Korean mass market literature, particularly in Japan and China.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2238831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238831", "title": "Elmshorn", "text": "Elmshorn\n\nElmshorn () is a town in the district of Pinneberg in Schleswig-Holstein in Germany. It is 30 km north of Hamburg on the small river Krückau, a tributary of the Elbe, and with 49,000 inhabitants is the sixth-largest town in the state of Schleswig-Holstein, Germany. It is the birthplace of writer and editor Hermann Schlüter (1851–1919), the mathematician Hermann Weyl (1885–1955) and the medievalist Heinz Woehlk (1944- ).\n\nHistorically Elmshorn had many companies in the food industry. including meat processing and sausage production, margarine production and cereal processing. Major surviving companies include Dölling-Hareico (meat processing/sausage production) and Kölln (cereal processing, mainly oats and muesli).\n\nElmshorn is twinned with:\n\nThe following people were born in Elmshorn (in order of year of birth):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2238833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238833", "title": "MOS composite static induction thyristor", "text": "MOS composite static induction thyristor\n\nMOS composite static induction thyristor (CSMT or MCS) is a combination of a MOS transistor connected in cascode relation to the SI-thyristor.\n\nThe SI thyristor (SITh) unit has a gate to which a source of MOS transistor is connected through a voltage regulation element. The low conduction loss and rugged structure MCS make it more favorable than conversional IGBT transistors.\n\nIn the blocking state nearly the complete voltage drops at the SITh. Thus the MOSFET is not exposed to high field stress. For fast switching the MOSFET with only 30–50 V blocking voltage is able. In IGBT, charge carrier concentration at emitter side in n-base layer is low as holes injected from collector easily pass to emitter electrode through p-base layer. Thus the wide-base pnp transistor operates by virtue of its current gain characteristics causing the rise collector-emitter saturation voltage.\n\nIn an MCS the positive difference between the voltage of regulation element and conduction voltage drop of MOSFET is applied to location between the collector region and emitter region of the pnp transistor. Hole concentration is accumulated at emitter side in n-base layer because of impossibility of the hole flow through forward bias collector-base junction of the pnp transistor. Carrier distribution in n-base is similar to that of saturation bipolar transistor and low saturation voltage of MCS, even at high voltage ratings, can be achieved.\n"}
{"id": "2238835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238835", "title": "Superhero Music", "text": "Superhero Music\n\nSuperhero Music is the second album by Fingathing, released on Grand Central Records in June 2002.\n\n"}
{"id": "2238856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238856", "title": "Me and You and Everyone We Know", "text": "Me and You and Everyone We Know\n\nMe and You and Everyone We Know is a 2005 American romantic comedy-drama film written and directed by Miranda July. She also acts in the starring role, opposite John Hawkes. The film was the first major studio production for July, who had been known previously for her self-produced short films and performance art.\n\nThe structure of the film consists of several subplots which all revolve around an intertwined cast of characters.\n\nThe film begins by introducing Richard (John Hawkes), a shoe salesman and recently separated father of two. After being thrown out by his wife Pam (JoNell Kennedy), he gets an apartment of his own to share with his children, Peter (Miles Thompson) and Robby (Brandon Ratcliff). He meets Christine (Miranda July), a senior-cab driver and amateur video artist, while she takes her client to shop for shoes, and the two develop a fledgling romantic relationship.\n\nRobby, six years old, and his 14-year-old brother, Peter, have a joint online chat which he later depicts in another chat session as \"))<>((\", an emoticon that means \"pooping back and forth, forever.\" This piques the interest of the woman at the other end and she suggests a real life meeting. When Robby and the woman meet at a park, she realizes he's a child and kisses him and walks away.\n\nTwo of Richard's teenaged neighbors, Heather (Natasha Slayton) and Rebecca (Najarra Townsend), develop a playful relationship with a much older neighbor Andrew (Brad William Henke) who works in the shoe store with Richard. He does not say much, but he keeps leaving signs on his window about what he would do to each of them. As a result of this relationship, Heather and Rebecca ask Peter if they can practice oral sex on him, so that he can tell them which of the two does it better; so they do. He says both were exactly the same. The daughter of a neighbor peeks in the window, sees what is happening, and quickly leaves. Heather and Rebecca later come to the neighbor's house intending to have sex with him as practice, but he appears afraid when he sees them through his window and he pretends not to be home.\n\nMeanwhile, Christine's work is rejected by a contemporary art museum, but then later accepted by the curator, who turns out to be the woman who was instant messaging with the brothers.\n\nThe plots come together in the end, with Peter developing a friendship with the daughter of a neighbor, having been introduced to the hope chest that she has, Christine and Richard displaying a show of mutual acceptance of their attraction to each other, and, as a final plot device, Robby finding that the noise he had awoken to early every morning was that of an early-rising businessman tapping a quarter on a street sign pole. When asked why he is doing it, he stops and turns around, saying \"just passing the time\", and gives Robby the quarter. When his bus drives away and Robby tries it out himself, the sun heightens with each tap, time literally passing as he does it.\n\n\nThe film was shot using a Sony HDW-F900 CineAlta high definition digital video camera.\n\nThe score, composed by Michael Andrews, was performed largely on a modified Casio SK-1 sampling keyboard.\n\nOn-line chat scenes were filmed with open-source Gaim software, now known as Pidgin.\n\nThe film received largely positive reviews; it currently holds an 82% 'fresh' rating on Rotten Tomatoes, with the consensus stating, \"Miranda July's debut feature is a charmingly offbeat and observant film about people looking for love.\" On Metacritic, \"Me and You\" holds a 76, indicating \"Generally favorable reviews\".\n\nThe film won the Caméra d'Or at the Cannes Film Festival.\n\nRoger Ebert cited it as the fifth best film of the decade.\n\nPeter Bradshaw for The Guardian, however, stated in a negative review of this film: \"It feels as if watching this will earn you credits on an American college discourse on emotional correctness.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "2238868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238868", "title": "And the Big Red Nebula Band", "text": "And the Big Red Nebula Band\n\nAnd the Big Red Nebula Band was the third album by Fingathing. It was released in May 2004 on Grand Central Records in the UK, and licensed from them by Ninja Tune in the U.S. & Canada.\n\n\nIn the UK, a \"Best of\" compilation entitled Time Capsule: The First Five Years of Fingathing has since been released.\nHowever, the American edition of \"And The Big Red Nebula Band\" contains a bonus audio CD, also called \"Time Capsule\", but only containing 5 tracks:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2238871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238871", "title": "Robert Templeton", "text": "Robert Templeton\n\nRobert Templeton (12 December 1802 – 2 June 1892) was a naturalist, artist, and entomologist, and was born at Cranmore House, Belfast, Ireland.\n\nRobert Templeton was the son of John Templeton, and was educated in Belfast Academical Institution, which was in part his father's creation. In 1821 he left Ireland for Edinburgh, Scotland to study medicine and following graduation practised in the University hospital. In the same year he became a Member of the Belfast Natural History Society. In 1833 (6 May) he was commissioned as Assistant Surgeon in the Royal Artillery, initially stationed at the Royal Artillery Barracks, Woolwich, close to London, England.\n\nIn 1834, Templeton was stationed to Mauritius and in 1835 to Rio de Janeiro and Recife. From Rio (1835) he took ship to Colombo, Ceylon, \"via\" the Cape of Good Hope and in this year became a Corresponding Member of the Zoological Society of London. A brief sojourn in Ceylon was followed by a stay in Malta (1836). Later in 1836 he moved on to Corfu and Albania. In all these places Templeton collected insects and other invertebrates and in 1839 he became a Corresponding Member of the Entomological Society of London.\n\nA twelve-year stay in Ceylon (1839–1851) followed, and in 1847 Templeton was promoted from Assistant Surgeon to Surgeon. In these years at various times he visited Southern India - Madras, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Karnataka- and twice Northern India Uttarakhand and Kashmir. Recalled from Ceylon in 1852 due to the unrest in Europe which was to erupt in the bloody and terrible Crimean War, he served in the Crimea from March 1854–1856 and was promoted to Surgeon-Major on 7 December 1855. He retired with the honorary rank of Deputy Inspector General of Hospitals on 31 January 1860.\n\nTempleton was particularly interested in the Thysanura and his first published entomological paper concerns these insects. \"Thysanurae hibernicae\" (Irish bristle tails and spring-tails) was published in the first volume of the Transactions of the Entomological Society of London for 1836 and is the first significant work in English on these primitive insects, remaining so until 1875. In this short work prefaced by John Obadiah Westwood Templeton described two new genera and twelve new species accompanied by two plates showing whole animals and details of structure. Forty years later the entomologist Lubbock paid tribute to Templeton's early work by naming a thysanuran genus after him — \"Templetonia\".\n\nMuch of Templeton's early work and very much in Ceylon was on spiders. Studies of Irish spiders were passed to John Blackwall who incorporated the notes and drawings into his own work. Oddly, although he collected \"my old pets the spiders\", he published very little on them.\n\nIn Ceylon Templeton worked mainly on Lepidoptera, Coleoptera and Hymenoptera alongside Edgar Leopold Layard (1824–1900). New species of Lepidoptera collected by Templeton and Layard were described by Frederic Moore, Francis Walker and George Robert Gray. The new Coleoptera were described by Joseph Sugar Baly, Francis Walker, John Obadiah Westwood, Carl August Dohrn and Francis Polkinghorne Pascoe. Templeton's publications on Lepidoptera amount to some general comments on papilionid butterflies and two species descriptions — \"Oiketicus terlius\" and \"Oiketicus (Cryptothelia) consortus\". \nThe bulk of the new beetles, some of the Hymenoptera (the rest were described by Frederick Smith) and other insects in Templeton's collection were described by Francis Walker who also compiled the first list of the insects of Ceylon for Tennent's book \"Ceylon, Physical, Historical and Topographical\" based on the collections of Templeton, Layard, the British Museum and the Museum of the East India Company; there are 2,000 species and Layard and Templeton captured between them 932 species of butterflies and moths in Ceylon many, new to science. Templeton supplied many of the insects incorporated in Westwood's book \"Oriental Cabinet\", one of which, the beetle \"Compsosternus templetonii\" bears his name. \n\nUnfortunately only the published part of Templeton's correspondence with Westwood (the Secretary of the Entomological Society) survived, the manuscripts are apparently lost. Templeton's Ceylon insect collection was apparently divided between the Belfast Museum (now in the National Museum of Ireland), the Entomological Society of London and the British Museum (the Entomological Society's collections are now incorporated in those of the latter institution). Templeton's watercolour paintings of Ceylon butterflies are in the Ulster Museum, Belfast. Templeton, Layard and George Henry Kendrick Thwaites and later John Nietner (died 1874) contributed almost all that was known of the insect fauna of the island at the end of the first half of the nineteenth century including a privately printed list of Thysanura, Myriapoda, Scorpionidea, Cheliferidae and Phrynidae (now Amblypygi) from Ceylon which is not traced, and remarked on the habits of the large poisonous centipedes \"Scolopendra pallipes\" and \"S. crassa\" in two (published) communications to Westwood. Many of his manuscripts were lost when the clipper Memnon sank in 1851.\n\nThe Ceylon insects are in the Natural History Museum, London. Many are Types of the new species described by Francis Walker.\n\nPart of Templeton's Mollusca collection was described as \"comprising several new and rare species hitherto undescribed\". Amongst others are new species of each of these genera: \"Achatina\", \"Helix\", \"Neritina\", \"Ampullaria\", \"Valvata\", \"Planorbis\" and \"Melania\". Robert Templeton sent back to the Belfast Museum specimens of the Ceylonese pearl mussel showing growth stages of the mussels from the famous pearl fisheries of Ceylon. He also described two species of land-slug (\"Vaginula maculata\" and \"Parfnacella tennenti\") from Ceylon. It was Templeton who described the extraordinary giant earthworm \"Megascole caeruleus\" from Ceylon which is between 20 and 40 inches long and has a thickness of nearly an inch or more.\n\nTempleton also studied the vertebrates of the island, especially the fish, birds and monkeys. Amongst the birds were five endemic species new to science. These were described by Edward Blyth in the \"Calcutta Journal\" as \"Athene castanotus\", the chestnut-winged hawk owl; \"Malacocercus rufescens\", the red dung thrush; \"Dicrurus edoliformis\", the kingcrow, \"Dicrurus leucopyygialis\" the Ceylon kingcrow, and \"Eulabes ptilogenes\", Templeton's mynah. The monkeys were studiously appraised and some of the results communicated to the Zoological Society of London. These communications, one of the monkey \"Cercopithecus pileatus\" and the loris \"Loris gracilis\" and the other on a supposed new species \"Semnopithecus leucoprymnus cephalopterus\" which turned out to be identical with Bennet's \"Semnopithecus nestor\", are Templetons only personal contribution to the literature on the vertebrates of Ceylon. His knowledge of the smaller mammals, birds, reptiles and fishes was instead incorporated in the work of others, notably George Robert Waterhouse and his coworker Edgar Leopold Layard who in the introduction to \"Notes on the Ornithology of Ceylon\" says \"I have had the advantage of consulting with Mr. Blyth and Drs. Templeton and Kelaart with each of whom i have been on terms of the closest intimacy and we mutually communicated our discoveries\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2238874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238874", "title": "GWR 2221 Class", "text": "GWR 2221 Class\n\nThe Great Western Railway (GWR) 2221 Class or County Tank was a class of 4-4-2T steam locomotive, effectively a tank engine version of the 3800 \"County\" Class 4-4-0 tender locomotives. The two classes had different boilers, standard no 4 for the tender locomotive, and the smaller (by about ) standard no 2 for the tank. 2230 was fitted with the larger boiler when new, but this was unsuccessful and was quickly altered.\n\nThirty were built between 1905 and 1912 to replace the 3600 \"Birdcage\" Class. They were built in three batches of ten, the batches having minor differences. In the final batch the drop in the front framing above the cylinders was curved, the cylinders were also lower, superheaters and top feed were fitted from new. Later in life, the earlier members of the class were fitted with superheaters, and some were given larger bunkers in line with other standard tank classes.\n\nTheir work was concentrated on London suburban services. They were replaced by the more versatile GWR 6100 Class from 1931 onwards, the last going in 1934. Their large four coupled driving wheels were suited to high speed running on outer suburban services but acceleration was slower than that of the six coupled, smaller wheeled locomotives.\n\nLike the Counties, they had a reputation for rough riding, caused by their short coupled wheelbase and large outside cylinders. None survived into preservation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2238882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238882", "title": "Butcher Island", "text": "Butcher Island\n\nButcher Island (Jawahar Dweep) is an island off the coast of Mumbai, India. It has an oil terminal used by the port authorities to offload it from oil tankers. The crude oil is stored in oil containers on the island. From there they are piped to Wadala, in Mumbai where they are refined. This keeps the city relatively safe from a mishap. Tenders have been invited to develop a second oil terminal. The dredging works are currently being undertaken to improve the navigable depths in and around the new terminal.\n\nIt is a restricted area and most of the island is covered with dense vegetation. A hillock rises from the centre of the island. It is located from the Gateway of India. \n"}
{"id": "2238883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238883", "title": "Manifold System", "text": "Manifold System\n\nManifold System is a geographic information system (GIS) software package developed by Manifold Software Limited that runs on Microsoft Windows. Manifold System handles both vector and raster data, includes spatial SQL, a built-in Internet Map Server (IMS), and other general GIS features. Manifold System Release 8.00 was the first commercial product to include massively parallel GPGPU functionality utilizing NVIDIA GPUs, implemented within approximately 35 functions used in the raster transformation system. Manifold System has an active user community with a mailing list and online forums.\n\nThe development team for Manifold was created in 1993 to optimize mathematics libraries for a massively-parallel supercomputer created in a joint venture between Intel Corporation and the US Department of Defense. The team subsequently embarked on a plan to create and sell mathematics libraries, including the General Graph Facilities library (GGF) and the Computational Geometry Library (CGL), under the name of the Center for Digital Algorithms.\n\nA series of \"workbench\" products were created to help teach customers the operation of algorithms in the libraries using visual means. Road networks and geometric data in geographic contexts were used to provide visual familiarity and interest, in effect creating a GIS-like product. In 1997 and 1998 customers asked for a true GIS product based on the workbench products and development of Manifold System was launched. The company soon changed its name to Manifold Software Limited to match the new product's name.\n\nManifold System was first sold in January 1998 as Release 3.00. Releases 3.00 and 4.00 were heavily weighted to analytics, with many tools for abstract graph theory analysis but a very limited GIS toolset. At the request of GIS users and resellers, Release 4.50 emphasized general GIS features of broader interest and emerged as Manifold's first commercial GIS, a typical vector GIS more or less equivalent to classic vector GIS packages such as ArcView 3.x or MapInfo Professional.\n\nThe Release 5.00 series in 2001 and 2002 integrated display and editing of raster images and surfaces, including terrain elevation surfaces, and both 2D and 3D rendering. The 5.x series also introduced an integrated Internet Map Server (IMS) and the first Enterprise editions of Manifold System allowing collaboration by teams using shared components. The 5.x series also introduced a new spatial SQL and fuzzy logic using the Decision Support System.\n\nReleases since 2003 include 5.50, 6.00 (two major feature upgrades via service pack), 6.50, 7.00 and 7x. 6.50 introduced image tiling from Terraserver and OGC WMS image servers using Manifold as a client and extended IMS support to include OGC WMS when using Manifold as a server. 7.00 further extended IMS to include OGC WFS-T and image server functionality as well.\n\nRelease 7.00 was issued in May 2006 and followed up by Release 7x in the next three months. 7x was released in two flavors: 32-bit and 64-bit.\n\nRelease 7.00 introduced direct support for Oracle Spatial (vector drawings, raster images and raster surfaces) and included concurrent multiuser editing capability for Oracle and a variety of other databases, including DB2 and Microsoft SQL Server. 7.00 introduced multiprocessor support with multithreaded rendering of image libraries, multithreaded connections to DBMS providers and use of multiple processors in other areas as well.\n\n7.00 also introduced the Manifold Image Server interface API, allowing users to create modules that enable usage within Manifold of image servers such as Virtual Earth, Google Maps, Yahoo, Ask and others. Open source image server modules have been published by the user community in both 32-bit and 64-bit versions that enable automatic fetching and tiling of either satellite images or street map images from various image servers.\n\nRelease 8.00 was issued in the summer of 2007 and introduced 420 improvements. 8.00 expanded support for direct use of spatial DBMS beyond Oracle to include IBM DB2 with Spatial Extender, PostgreSQL / PostGIS and pre-releases of Microsoft's SQL Server 2008 spatial product available in 2007. 8.00 also introduced a Manifold-written spatial extender for Microsoft SQL Server 2005 as well as generic spatial DBMS capability from Manifold enabling spatial DBMS storage of vectors and rasters in any DBMS providing binary storage capability.\n\nRelease 8.00 became the first GIS product to include support for NVIDIA CUDA technology, in which massively-parallel architectures utilized in NVIDIA GPU cards, employing up to hundreds of stream processors per card, can be utilized to execute general purpose GIS code for computations on rasters. Typical speed increases when using NVIDIA CUDA reduce the time required for complex surface calculations in Manifold from minutes to seconds. For its use of NVIDIA CUDA Manifold System won the 2008 Geospatial Innovator Award at the GeoTec 2008 conference.\n\n8.00 was updated through 2008 to improve support for PostgreSQL/PostGIS, to support final production releases of Microsoft SQL Server 2008 and to support new Windows releases through Windows Server 2008 x64. As new Windows were issued Manifold verified compatibility for Release 8 through all Windows editions up to current Windows 10 and related Windows server editions, both in 32 bit and x64. \n\nIn December 2015 Manifold.net announced that Manifold's parallel database engine for OEMs, Radian, would be the foundation for future releases of Manifold System GIS, and provided a road map for Radian Studio and Manifold Release 9 implementations in 2016. Beta testing for Radian commenced in 2016 with a first release of Radian Studio in February 2017. \n\nA series of updates for 8.00 were issued in 2017 to add integration with ODBC access to Radian data sources. This gave Release 8 the ability to connect, through Radian, to any data source Radian can use, expanding Release 8 connectivity to data sources 8.00 previously could not access, such as MrSID, ESRI file geodatabases, numerous GDAL/OGR sources and similar.\n\nManifold Viewer, a free version of Radian Studio was issued in June, 2017. Viewer included all features of Radian Studio except printing, scripting, export, writing of projects, and GPU parallelism, although including CPU parallelism. Viewer editions automatically track and include changes and bug fixes to Radian Studio / Manifold System.\n\nManifold System Release 9 was issued in December 2017 as a pre-release for Radian Studio licensees with first initial release in January, 2018. Radian Studio was deprecated in favor of Release 9, a superset of Radian Studio.\n\nFrom January, 2018 to March, 2020, sixty five Release 9 builds have been issued adding 1,335 cited features and improvements to Release 9 and Viewer. Build 9.0.169 in May, 2019 added automatic GPU parallelism to Viewer in addition to CPU parallelism.\n\nLater versions have benefited greatly from community involvement via online discussion and beta testing. From July 2002 to May 2017 over 4000 new items have been cited in release notes, many of which originated in the user community.\n\nThe online Georeference forum was started by David Brubacher and William Howell in 2004 and incorporated into the manifold.net site in January 2006 at forum.manifold.net\n\n"}
{"id": "2238886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238886", "title": "Switzerland (disambiguation)", "text": "Switzerland (disambiguation)\n\nSwitzerland is a country in Europe.\n\nSwitzerland may also refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2238893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238893", "title": "Cvetak Zanovetak", "text": "Cvetak Zanovetak\n\nCvetak zanovetak (English: \"Nagging Flower\") is the first studio album by Serbian singer Ceca. It was released in 1988 on LP and MC. It has never been released on CD.\n\n"}
{"id": "2238896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238896", "title": "Ludo srce", "text": "Ludo srce\n\nLudo srce (English: \"Crazy Heart\") is the second studio album by Serbian singer Ceca. It was released in May 1989 on LP and MC. It has never been released on CD.\n\n"}
{"id": "2238902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238902", "title": "The Last Temptation of Krust", "text": "The Last Temptation of Krust\n\n\"The Last Temptation of Krust\" is the fifteenth episode of \"The Simpsons\" ninth season. It first aired on the Fox network in the United States on February 22, 1998. It was written by Donick Cary and directed by Mike B. Anderson. Comedian Jay Leno makes a guest appearance. In the episode, Bart convinces Krusty the Clown to appear at a comedy festival organized by Jay Leno, but Krusty's old material does not go over well with the audience and he receives bad reviews. He briefly retires from comedy but returns with a new, better-received gimmick. He soon returns to his old ways, selling out to a motor-vehicle company.\n\nThe production team's decision to write an episode about stand-up comedy was influenced by comedy festivals. The writing staff initially had trouble getting Krusty's offensive bad jokes through network censors, but convinced them this was simply a way to emphasize his old and dated comedic material. The \"Canyonero\" sequence was modeled after Ford commercials and was given its own segment at the end of the episode because the production staff liked it so much. \n\nThe episode was highlighted by \"USA Today\" in a review of \"The Simpsons\" ninth season and received positive reviews in \"The Washington Times\", the \"Evening Herald\", and in books on \"The Simpsons\".\n\nKrusty is persuaded by Bart to appear at a comedy festival organized by Jay Leno. His old-fashioned and outdated material fails to impress the audience when compared with the more trendy comedians also appearing. After reading a critical review of his act in the press, Krusty decides to go on a \"bender to end all benders\" and a montage sequence shows him getting drunk. After Bart finds him passed out on Ned Flanders' lawn, he enlists the help of Leno to clean him up. Krusty holds a press conference to announce his retirement and in short order launches into a bitter tirade against modern-day comedians. The audience finds Krusty's rant hysterically funny and he subsequently announces his return to comedy.\n\nKrusty is inspired to return to doing low-key events, where he structures a new image for himself as a stand-up comedian who tells the truth, criticizes commercialism, and refuses to sell out to corporate America. He also changes his appearance, sporting a dark sweater and tying his hair in a ponytail. Observing his newfound popularity, two marketing executives try to persuade Krusty to endorse a new sport utility vehicle called the Canyonero. Although he tries to resist, he eventually succumbs to the lure of money. After promoting the Canyonero at a comedy performance in Moe's Tavern, he is booed off stage by the patrons. He finally admits to himself that comedy is not in his blood and selling out is. The episode ends with an extended advertisement for the Canyonero, as Krusty and Bart leave Moe's tavern in Krusty's new SUV.\n\nIn the DVD commentary for \"The Simpsons' \" ninth season, writer Donick Cary stated that the inspiration for the idea of an episode about stand-up comedy came out of comedy festivals at the time. Executive producer Mike Scully said that the writers had difficulty getting Krusty's offensive bad jokes through the network censors. The stereotypical jokes were allowed because the writers convinced the network censors that viewers would understand it was simply emphasizing Krusty's dated comedic material.\n\nMike B. Anderson stated that at least three different acts of material were written and animated for Krusty's comeback stand-up appearance at Moe's Tavern. It was not until the editing process that the material used was decided upon. The episode was still being animated three weeks before it was due to air and the production process moved frantically shortly before completion. The Canyonero sequence was originally planned to be displayed during the closing credits. The production team liked the scene so much that they did not want it to be obscured by the credits and gave it its own segment at the end of the episode.\n\nThe episode title is a reference to the controversial novel (and later film) \"The Last Temptation of Christ\". In addition to Jay Leno, other real-life comedians that portrayed themselves in the episode include Steven Wright, Janeane Garofalo, Bobcat Goldthwait, and Bruce Baum, whose appearance helped increase his popularity. Krusty's \"Krustylu Studios\" is a spoof on the company Desilu studios, set up by Lucille Ball and her husband Desi Arnaz, where the series \"Star Trek\" was once filmed. During Krusty's \"bender to end all benders\" montage, he is seen drinking out of and vomiting into the Stanley Cup. The National Hockey League sent a letter regarding this scene. Mike Scully described it as a \"kind of a cease and desist\", but the production staff decided not to cut the scene from the episode. The poem recited by Krusty when he announces his retirement from comedy is based on \"To an Athlete Dying Young\" by A. E. Housman. Krusty attends the coffee shop Java the Hut, a reference to the \"Star Wars\" character Jabba the Hutt. Additionally, Krusty's anti-commercialism and anti-corporate stances, along with styling his hair in a ponytail, is a reference to comedian George Carlin who styled his hair the same way later in his career and often had anti-capitalism, anti-consumerism and anti-commercialism overtones in his performance.\n\nThe \"Canyonero\" song and visual sequence was modeled after Ford commercials. The sequence is a parody of a commercial for a sport utility vehicle and Hank Williams Jr. sings a song about the Canyonero accompanied by country guitar music and whip cracks. The song \"Canyonero\" closely resembles the theme to the 1960s television series \"Rawhide\". This episode was the first appearance of the Canyonero, which again appeared in the season 10 episode \"\". The \"Canyonero\" song is included on the 1999 soundtrack album \"Go Simpsonic with The Simpsons\".\n\nChris Turner wrote positively of the Canyonero spoof piece in \"Planet Simpson: How a Cartoon Masterpiece Defined a Generation\", calling it \"a brilliant parody of an SUV ad\". \n\nIn an article in the journal \"Environmental Politics\", Steve Vanderheiden commented that the Canyonero reflected an \"anti-SUV\" stance by \"The Simpsons\". Vanderheiden wrote: \"Even the popular animated television series ‘The Simpsons’ joined the anti-SUV fray in 1998, featuring a mammoth vehicle called the ‘Canyonero’ (marketed with the jingle: ‘Twelve yards long, two lanes wide/Sixty-five tons of American pride!’), which promised to help the family transcend its mundane station-wagon existence but instead brought only misery.\" \n\nThe term \"Canyonero\" has since been used in the news media to refer critically to large trucks and SUVs. \n\nIn an article in the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" about SUV owners, Vicki Haddock wrote \"SUV owners have become something of a punch line, succinctly captured in a \"Simpsons\" parody touting the apocryphal Canyonero\". \n\nIn a 2006 article, Seth Jayson of \"The Motley Fool\" compared the wording in a Ford advertisement \"myFord Owner Magazine\" to this episode, writing: \"the unholiest of unholies is the writing, which is so thick with absurd adspeak, you'd think it was written by the crew at \"The Onion\" or \"The Simpsons\" – especially that episode where Krusty starts shilling for the Canyonero.\" \n\nIn a 2004 article in the \"Chicago Tribune\", Jim Mateja noted that people have pointed out a similarity between the GMC Canyon and the Canyonero. When contacted, GMC responded that the GMC is a pickup truck, while the Canyonero is a parody of an SUV.\n\nJoshua Dowling of \"The Sun-Herald\" described the philosophy of the Ford F-250 as \"The Canyonero comes to life\".\n\nIn its original broadcast, \"The Last Temptation of Krust\" finished 21st in ratings for the week of February 16–23, 1998, with a Nielsen rating of 9.7, equivalent to approximately 9.5 million viewing households. It was the fourth highest-rated show on the Fox network that week, following \"The X-Files\", \"The World's Scariest Police Chases\", and \"King of the Hill\".\n\nIn 2006, \"USA Today\" highlighted the episode in a review of \"The Simpsons\" ninth season.\n\nIn his review of the season nine DVD, Joseph Szadkowski of \"The Washington Times\" noted: \"Among the 22-minute gems found in the set, I most enjoyed ... [Krusty's] work with Jay Leno.\" \n\nMark Evans of the \"Evening Herald\" wrote: \"'The Last Temptation of Krust' is a winner for its title alone as Krusty the clown becomes a satiric 'alternative' comedian but then sells out by advertising the Canyonero SUV road hazard.\" \n\nAlan Sepinwall wrote positively of the episode in \"The Star-Ledger\", citing the Canyonero sequence as \"the real reason to watch\" the episode and that \"It's an oversize vehicle that will create oversized laughs.\" \n\nSome sources mistakenly refer to this episode as \"The Last Temptation of Krusty\".\n\nIn the book \"I Can't Believe It's a Bigger and Better Updated Unofficial Simpsons Guide\", Warren Martyn and Adrian Wood characterized the episode as \"a good twist on the never-ending Krusty story\" and suggested that while \"Jay Leno turns in a nice cameo [...] the show is stolen by the advert for the Canyonero\". The authors also praised Krusty's \"ponytail and black sweater\" look. \n\nIn the DVD audio commentary for \"The Last Temptation of Krust\", Leno said that he believed the essence of comedy clubs was depicted very well in the episode and referred to Krusty's remodeled appearance as \"[George] Carlin post-Vegas act\". He also appreciated Krusty's poke at Leno's use of news headlines on \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\" and said that he could not figure out whether parts of the episode were making fun of him or complimenting him. \n\nWilliam Irwin's \"\" references a scene from the episode as an example of Marge's passive resistance, her moral influence on Lisa, and her value as a role model for her children.\n\nBibliography\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2238907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238907", "title": "Babaroga (album)", "text": "Babaroga (album)\n\nBabaroga is the fourth studio album by Serbian singer Ceca. It was released in 1991.\n\nThe album's title is derived from a witch in Slavic folklore called \"Baba Roga\", who kidnaps and eats children.\n\n"}
{"id": "2238909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238909", "title": "Serena van der Woodsen", "text": "Serena van der Woodsen\n\nSerena Celia van der Woodsen is a main character in the \"Gossip Girl\" novel series and the lead in its TV adaptation, in which she is portrayed by Blake Lively. Serena is featured on the blog of the series' mysterious narrator, \"Gossip Girl\". Serena is Blair Waldorf's best friend and is a character that appears to easily get whatever she wants because of her good looks, energy, and charisma.\n\nSerena is a tall, blonde, slim, and attractive teenage girl from the Upper East Side of Manhattan in New York City. Many of the girls at the Constance Billard school accuse her of using her good looks as a means to secure everything she wants. She is not particularly academically skilled, but she is often told that she is not meeting her full potential. Her father runs the same Dutch shipping firm his great-great-grandfather founded in the 18th century, and her mother, Lillian van der Woodsen, is a socialite, art collector, and philanthropist. Her mother and father are on the boards of all major charities and art organizations in the city. The van der Woodsens reside at 994 Fifth Avenue, a ritzy, white-gloved doorman building directly across the street from The Met and Central Park. Serena and her family own half the top floor in a 14-room penthouse.\n\nSerena has a nail-biting habit and also cuts her split ends off, mainly during her classes at Constance Billard. Though exposed and aware of the on-goings in the fashion world, she, unlike Blair, is not as meticulous about her fashion choices and wardrobe. She is described to have an effortless way about her. Serena is charismatic, charming, talented, funny, kind, care-free, and laid-back. These attributes help her to thrive and often, whether willingly or unwillingly, attract older men.\n\nDespite all of her attributes, Janet Malcolm of \"The New Yorker\" considers her \"incandescently beautiful, exceptionally kind, and, in the end, it has to be said, somewhat boring.\"\n\n\"People\" compares her character with Josh Schwartz's original it-girl creation, Marissa Cooper, stating that Serena \"seems to have it all, but in addition to a party girl reputation, dark family secrets and a disregard for high society, Serena one-ups the sulky Coop with a history of BFF betrayal.\" Jason Gay of \"Rolling Stone\" describes Serena as \"the bad girl gone good(ish) who serves as Gossip Girl's wobbly moral compass.\" He added praise while describing her early strained relationship with Blair, stating, \"Lively's Serena is a former queen bee who mysteriously disappeared from campus, only to return and find her spiteful ex-best friend, Blair (Meester), in charge.\" With regards to her character's direction in the show, actress Blake Lively commented on her character's adventurous storylines during an interview with \"Nylon\" saying, \"I feel ridiculous at times with her, because I'm, you know, killing someone or marrying someone, but I look like me. I'm like, 'Oh, this is absurd.'\" \"Vogue\" magazine considers Lively's upbringing to be advantageous to her character background and finds her \"dazzling and worldly and optimistic\". Her mother, a former model from Georgia would dress her differently and her differing fashion choices drew the attention of her classmates from the L.A. private school she enrolled in. \"It was the only school where people were just downright mean to me,\" Lively stated. \"They would make fun of my clothes because I dressed differently than the other kids.\"\n\nIn November 2012 concept music artist Marty McKay released a single called \"Serena\" featuring former Dr. Dre / Aftermath producer Focus... The song is based on Serena's character in Gossip Girl. Due to a lack of promotion, the song did not garner much attention.\n\nThe first season introduces Serena as the beautiful, wealthy daughter of divorced parents who returns from boarding school. Her return sparks her old rivalry with her best friend, Blair. Serena's return is due to her younger brother, Eric van der Woodsen, who attempted suicide. She is considered unwelcome, most so by her old best friend Blair, who has always seen Serena as a threat to her reign as Queen Bee of Constance. After Serena successfully reconciles with her, Chuck Bass reveals to Serena that he knows the cause of her sudden departure prior to the first season - taking Nate Archibald's (Blair's boyfriend) virginity during a wedding, and he attempts to kiss her. Serena manages to escape and runs into Dan, a St. Jude's student from Brooklyn, who often expresses cynicism about the lifestyle his wealthier classmates lead. Serena also finds a friend in Jenny Humphrey, Dan's younger sister. Nate eventually reveals his tryst with Serena to Blair, and Serena is ostracized in the first few episodes of the show. Blair and Serena consistently fight and reconcile throughout the show's subsequent episodes, often dealing with Serena's tendency to overshadow Blair. Serena and Blair reconcile after a heartfelt confrontation that prompted Serena to admit her mistake with Nate and leaving Blair in her time of need.\n\nSerena encounters a myriad of problems as her mother becomes engaged to Bart Bass, who forces her family to adjust to living with Chuck, then she discovers her mother's relationship with Dan's father, Rufus Humphrey, and the complications of embarking on a relationship with Dan that is met with disapproval of her mother and her peers. Her relationship with Dan further reaches complications with the arrival of Georgina Sparks, a longtime friend who slowly reveals to viewers the real reason why Serena left Manhattan. Georgina drives her to commit the same mistakes she did before leaving Manhattan, ranging from partying excessively to drinking heavily, causing Serena to miss the SATs. Serena confronts Georgina, only to draw her anger, prompting Georgina to destroy her relationship with Dan and blackmail her with knowledge of a particular event in the past: she accidentally killed a man. Serena's constant lying in order to keep Dan from discovering her past eventually takes its toll on their relationship and Dan breaks up with her.\n\nBlair eventually retaliates against Georgina with the help of Chuck and Nate and the intervention of Vanessa, successfully driving Georgina out of Manhattan. Serena finally tells Dan the truth, only to discover during Lily's wedding, that he wants to end their relationship. A disappointed Serena attempts to move on throughout the summer.\n\nThe second season shows Serena spending the summer with her family and Blair in the Hamptons, attempting to move on from her failed relationship with Dan. During a dramatic party, she and Dan briefly reconcile their relationship and return to New York. Their relationship becomes public again but ends sooner than expected during a blackout as both are unable to move past the problems that previously ruined their relationship. After a disastrous double date with Dan and a new transfer, Amanda, that ends with two of Blair's mean girls throwing Nair at Amanda and Dan accusing Serena of being behind it, Serena takes matters into her own hands and easily re-establishes herself as Queen, thus reigniting her rivalry with Blair. She has Dan publicly ostracized throughout the school. Exposing herself to New York's high society, she meets Poppy Lifton, a socialite, and further strains her relationship with Blair during Eleanor Waldorf's fashion show when she and Poppy participate in it. Serena and Blair eventually reconcile during a trip to Yale, where she didn't originally want to apply to but then took the opportunity to do so after Blair told her she couldn't possibly get in.\n\nAn exhibit in Rufus' gallery has Serena finding new love with a childhood friend and artist, Aaron Rose. She eventually reconciles with Dan but their friendship soon threatens her new love with Aaron, prompting him to escort her to a ball where Serena receives news from her mother of Bart's death. During Bart's funeral, Aaron notices her continually drawn towards Dan and invites her to come with him to Argentina, which she accepts. Upon their return, Serena breaks up with Aaron, and she is free to pursue a relationship with Dan. The two reunite, only to face the awkward discovery that they share a sibling. Dan and Serena's relationship further suffers when she realizes their diverging college choices, her continuous mistrust in him, and Dan's affair with a teacher that drives her to prematurely end their relationship.\n\nAfter throwing a disastrous Sweet Sixteen party for Jenny, Serena retreats to Spain with Poppy and Poppy's boyfriend, Gabriel Edwards. She returns to New York pursued by Gabriel after he broke up with Poppy and finds herself in a new relationship. During a party held by her mother, Serena discovers that Gabriel and Poppy have conned her mother's guests and calls on Blair's aid to obtain their stolen money, breaking up with Gabriel as she pursues Poppy. Blair reluctantly teams up with Chuck and a reformed Georgina, ignoring Lily's wishes that they let her handle it herself, ending with the plan completely back-firing: Serena is arrested, Poppy escapes and Georgina, becoming the scapegoat, eases back into her old ways.\n\nA stubborn Serena chooses to stay in prison, until Dan bails her out and the two go to prom together. Her arrest soon adds to her fame as she becomes a local celebrity. On the day of graduation, Gossip Girl sends a blast that further ruins Serena and her friends' reputations. Declaring war on Gossip Girl, Serena finds herself the center of blame when a ticked-off Gossip Girl decides to drop every unreleased piece of gossip she had in store, creating further divide within the group. Sending a text to Gossip Girl, Serena calls a bluff that she knows Gossip Girl's identity, only for Gossip Girl to escape and warning everyone that she'll be pursuing them in college. She spends the summer leaving New York with Carter in pursuit of her father.\n\nSerena returns from her European adventure and a complicated relationship with Carter that indicates a possible romance. \"The Los Angeles Times\" noted her character's penchant for secrecy but stated \"It initially seems as though Bad Serena is back, but we all know her highway of crazy behavior is always paved with good intentions.\" Serena's relationship with Carter earns the disapproval of her peers but discovers redeeming qualities in him. Lily first assumes that she's preparing to go to Brown but defers from entering, preferring to stay in the city and find herself. During Lily's wedding, she discovers Carter's previous transgressions and she loses him when he chooses to make amends for his mistakes, breaking her heart in the process.\n\nSerena eventually makes her time in New York useful by taking a job as a publicist, one that is short-lived as her relationships with both her friends and her family begin to erode. Her friendship with Blair and Nate crumble due to her job but finds even more trouble when she falls for Nate's married congressman cousin, Tripp van der Bilt (Aaron Tveit). Her relationship with him is tumultuous as both Nate and Blair fail in persuading her from continuing the affair. The affair ends when an offer to become a mistress from Tripp's wife makes her come to her senses. As Serena and Tripp return to New York, their car crashes, leaving her hospitalized. She survives and Nate proves his love for her and the two begin a relationship.\n\nWhen Chuck's mother returns, Serena's resolve to find her father is reignited. Her decision slowly damages her relationship with Nate as she reconnects with Carter who is back to his old habits. Knowing that he has information regarding her father, the two work together to find him but is no longer interested in a relationship with Carter. Jenny's growing feelings for Nate also threaten her relationship with him when she makes every effort to steal Nate for herself. One incident occurs during Nate's \"assassin\" birthday bash. During the party, Nate and Jenny happen to be the last two players. After being stuck in a supply closet, she kisses Nate, despite him being in love with Serena, straining their relationship further. Following a night drinking with Chuck and Nate, Nate and Jenny go back to his apartment. Just as soon as Serena gets off the elevator, she sees Jenny trying to kiss Nate. Nate kicks Jenny out of the apartment to reconcile with Serena, spurning Jenny's advances.\n\nDuring Dorota's wedding, Serena leaves with Carter and gives Jenny a message telling Nate that she has found her father. Serena soon finds out that Carter has been delaying her in an attempt to get close to her and leaves him, flies alone. Upon arriving, she is shocked to find her mother answering the hotel door, assuming that she had been in Canyon Ranch the entire time.\n\nWilliam van der Woodsen (William Baldwin) returns, making Serena happy but is unknowingly dragged into her father's plot to win back his ex-wife. The plot nearly works until Jenny, Blair, Nate and Chuck scheme against William, who had been trying to frame Rufus for adultery and intentionally misdiagnosing Lily, and William leaves. Her father's departure leads to Dan comforting her and reignites her feelings for him. Serena sleeps over at Dan's and wake up to find themselves in a compromising position, one that Jenny photographs and sends to Gossip Girl. As the photo spreads, Nate and Serena temporarily end their relationship and she joins Blair for a summer in Paris.\n\nSerena is seen spending her summer in Paris with Blair, reluctant to tell Blair that she has enrolled in Columbia, something that Blair fears will have them return to their high school pettiness, when she receives news that Chuck might be dead. After an unfortunate double date involving a handsome royal, Blair eventually forgives her. Chuck's arrival and a visit to a Parisian morgue confirms that he is alive but Serena pursues him in hopes of convincing him to return to New York when he tries to run away to London. She returns to New York having made her decision between Dan and Nate but her decision becomes irrelevant when she sees them with their new respective significant others, Vanessa and Juliet Sharp (Katie Cassidy), a girl with a personal vendetta against Serena.\n\nSerena's enrollment in Columbia has her face Juliet's many attempts at getting rid of her, ranging from excluding her from an exclusive society along with driving Blair against her, exposing her relationship with her professor, Colin Forrester (Sam Page), who happens to be Juliet's cousin to get her kicked out, and spreading various rumors about Serena, who manages to evade these attempts. Juliet then recruits Jenny and Vanessa and succeed in gaslighting her into toying with Dan and Nate's feelings, attempting to take a foundation position from Blair, and returning to her old partying habits. Serena is rehabilitated while Dan and Blair subsequently discover Juliet's reasons for ruining Serena. Serena was supposedly in an illicit, but not ever consummated, relationship with Juliet's half-brother and Serena's boarding school English teacher, Ben Donovan (David Call) and was arrested when Lily forged an affidavit that falsely accused Ben of statutory rape, out of concern for Serena.\n\nThe holidays has Serena trying to figure out how to release Ben from prison and her relationship with Lily is yet again strained. Serena and Dan put a possible return to their relationship on hold, knowing that they might not have the same chance of loving and trusting each other. Meanwhile, Ben's release from prison reignites Serena's feelings for him and they pursue a loving, yet troubled relationship. Serena's relationship with Ben slowly erodes when she receives news from Vanessa that he is responsible for hurting Nate's father in prison and when Ben's mother, Cynthia, raises Ben's personal troubles while at the same time seeking to exonerate him. Serena becomes proud of her mother when Lily decides to face the consequences of sending an innocent Ben to prison. Serena and Ben's relationship eventually ends due to family complications.\n\nSerena's cousin, Charlie Rhodes, comes to stay with Serena's family for a while. Charlie helps Serena find out that Dan and Blair have had a secret romance, causing a fight between Serena and Blair. Serena continues to use Charlie as a spy until noticing that Charlie is starting to act exactly as Serena and steals Serena's dress. In the season finale, Serena gets Charlie help with a medical condition, though it is later revealed that Charlie is really Ivy, and Ivy is just acting. Later, while walking the streets of Los Angeles, Serena gets offered a job in Hollywood where she decides to move to.\n\nIn Season 5, Serena is working as a film producer's assistant in Los Angeles and spending her free time with Nate and Chuck. Although Serena’s boss, Marshall, is difficult to please, his boss, Jane, promotes Serena after she succeeds at a task that Marshall failed. Later, she runs into Charlie and convinces her to move with her back to New York.\n\nWhen Dan tells Serena, Nate, Blair, Chuck, Rufus and Lily that he wrote a book about his life and their roles in it, Serena is offended when he portrays her as a self-centered, promiscuous party-girl and is even more upset when Blair tells her that's exactly who she's been. After this revelation, she stops speaking to Dan. This cannot last, however, when her boss, Jane, requires Serena to get the movie rights to Dan's book. He agrees eventually saying that he trusts her and she gives him her word to protect him and his work. However when Serena's boss tries to smear Dan's character and his real life image in the movie, she kills the deal to protect him, but when Dan finds out, he accuses her of killing the movie because of the negative way she is portrayed. Heartbroken over his accusation, she reveals that her real reason for killing his movie was to protect him, not herself, then walks away.\n\nAfter being fired by Jane, Serena is hired by Nate's boss, Diana Payne, to start a blog based on her life in order to take down Gossip Girl. Later, Nate and Serena discover a list of sources for Gossip Girl, which would be the silver bullet in Diana's campaign against Gossip Girl. They struggle over whether or not to use it and ultimately decide it would be too damaging to release. The list is leaked anyway and the two accuse each other before Blair discovers that it was Louis who leaked Gossip Girl's list of sources. Charlie encourages Serena to start dating in order to motivate her for her blog and she begins dating a guy named Max that she met on the street, not knowing that Max is actually Charlie's ex-boyfriend. Diana arranges for Max to meet Serena at the opening of Chuck's premiere of \"Sleep No More\" in order to make it look like Max has stood her up. Serena forgives Max for standing her up, and the two begin dating.\n\nCharlie finds out the two are dating and convinces her to slow down the relationship. Serena's aunt Carol returns and Serena overhears an argument between the two about Carol forcing Charlie to live under the name 'Ivy Dickens'. Serena makes the connection between Max and Charlie when she remembers that Max's ex-girlfriend's name was Ivy. She demands the truth from Charlie and Max. Ivy as Charlie and Carol manage to convince Serena and the family that Max is lying and Serena tells Max to leave before she calls the police.\n\nAs Serena and Lily prepare Charlie for her debut into New York society, Dan tells Serena that he is going to tell Blair how he feels about her. In order to make Dan see that Blair's happy ending will be with Louis, she sends Louis to the Humphrey loft. When she finds Dan with Blair and Chuck later, she realizes that he gave up his desire for Blair for Blair's own happiness with Chuck and realizes that Blair is still in love with Chuck. Later that night, after Charlie's debutante party, Serena receives a call from Nate that Blair and Chuck have been in an accident. This causes Serena to declare war on Gossip Girl, using Nate's power at the Spectator, and Dan.\n\nWith Gossip Girl gone, Serena finds that Gossip Girl's tipsters have begun sending their blasts to her via her blog. Nate encourages her to use the blasts productively, but Serena is reluctant to become the next Gossip Girl. Meanwhile, Serena is concerned for Blair's well-being and confronts her at Nate's New Year's Eve party where Blair tells her that the accident was God's way of telling her that she and Chuck are not meant to be together and that she made a promise with God that if Chuck lived, she would marry Louis and that Dan has been going to church with her since. In order to cover Blair, Serena pretends that she has rekindled her romance with Dan. This \"romance\" becomes the focus of her soon-to-be-launched blog which causes problems for Dan, as while Dan thinks that their romance is fake, Serena is shown to have genuine feelings for Dan again.\n\nSerena is humiliated at the press premiere of her new blog, being photographed holding a tablet that shows \"Site not found.\" Upset, she is told the time wasn't right for her blog, but she ultimately discovers that Nate had it shut down as a favour to Gossip Girl. In return, Gossip Girl would help him find out the truth about Blair and Chuck's car accident. Serena doesn't agree with Nate's suspicions that Tripp was responsible, and confronts the latter over at the Waldorf residence. This is revealed to be a set-up brought about by Nate, Serena and Nate's grandfather as a way for Tripp to admit that he was behind the accident thinking that Nate was going to be in the car instead.\n\nFollowing this, Serena finds out that Blair was arrested at her own bachelorette party, and rushes to her aide. Blair tells her that she's alright, and that since she's going to go through with her wedding, Serena doesn't have to pretend to be together with Dan anymore. Serena, however, decides to keep this truth from Dan a little while longer.\n\nOn Blair's wedding day, Serena tries to convince Blair not to marry Louis. Blair goes through with her wedding anyway, even after Gossip Girl launches a video of Blair professing her true feelings to Chuck. After the vows are said, Serena, Dan and Nate confront Georgina and she blames each of them in a vague manner before leaving. When Blair goes missing after her wedding, Serena and Chuck search for her, and find her in a motel in Queens with Dan, which upsets Serena as she still has feelings for him. When Georgina arrives, Serena is revealed to have Georgina's video camera that was used to record Blair's confession and she takes the fall for the video.\n\nFollowing this, Blair and Serena are in yet another rut, but forgive each other and Serena is unknowingly set up on a blind date with Dan, after she told him her feelings and he rejected her. At a party later, she and Georgina find Dan and Blair kissing, which causes another rift between her and Blair. After her grandmother's death and shocking news of her will, Serena starts a vendetta against Ivy (who received the major part of CeCe's estate), trying to win back her family fortunes. In a surprising turn of events, she gets a package from former Gossip Girl, Georgina Sparks, containing a computer and the means necessary to become the next Gossip Girl. Serena accepts.\n\nAfter losing the reins to Gossip Girl and her unintentional role in exposing Blair's diary to the Upper East side, Serena attempts to deceive Blair by having sex with Dan. The plan almost works only for Dan to realize what has happened. Serena once again tells Dan that she loves him but Dan tells her that he does not feel anything for her. A depressed Serena is last seen leaving the city with one of Damien Dalgaard's drug dealers, a flashback to her days before she returned to the Upper East Side in season one.\n\nIn season 6, Serena is seen together with a new boyfriend, Steven Spence (who is significantly older than her). She is seen leading a happy, peaceful life away from the UES. Confronted by Blair, she simply says that she doesn't see how they could ever be friends again. Serena ultimately moves back to the UES with Steven, and his jealous daughter Sage. Sage uses every chance she gets to sabotage her father's relationship with Serena, and proves herself to be on par, scheming-wise, with Georgina and Blair. After some shocking revelations, including the fact that Steven has slept with Lily when her last name was Müller, they decide to end things.\n\nSerena is re-united with Dan again in a last attempt to make things work. Dan, on his hand, has been writing a scathingly honest sequel to \"Inside\" with the help of Georgina. One of his last and most poignant chapters is The Serena Chapter, which is released during the Thanksgiving party. Serena is, in the chapter, described as a \"Golden girl\" who lives for attention and love, and dramatically ends things with Dan. She decides to move away from New York, but is intercepted by Dan, who tries to convince her that he has always loved her and always will. Hurt and upset, she doesn't believe him, and leaves. Before she leaves, Dan slides a file into her bag, which she opens on the plane before take-off. It is revealed that Dan wrote two chapters on Serena, and that the second one was the \"Good Serena Chapter\". She gets off the plane and goes to talk things through thoroughly with Dan.\n\nIn the finale, Dan reveals to her how they first met at a party at Blair's, and how he fell in love at first sight. He had then realised that he could never pull her out of her world and into his, so he found a way to enter her world by creating a UES blog. This blog, launching Serena's rise to legend, became known as Gossip Girl. Serena realises that Gossip Girl was only ever a manifestation of Dan's love for her, and that he practically wrote them all a seven-year-long love letter.\n\nA scene set in the future shows everyone reunited at the Bass-Waldorf residence, witnessing the marriage of Dan and Serena.\n\nSerena's style has earned noteworthy praise from periodicals such as \"InStyle\" and \"NYLON\". \"EW\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s Meeta Agrawal places Blake Lively's Serena van der Woodsen amongst the wearers of the 20 Knockout Dresses of the '00s. Her Tory Burch designed dress in the pilot earning the 2nd spot on the list. \"People\" magazine references an issue of \"NYLON\", reporting that even the actress herself admits to liking her character's style and wardrobe and \"InStyle\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s Joyann King praises \"Serena’s vixen-like style and Lively’s smoldering off-screen choices\". In an interview for \"Vanity Fair\", costume designers Eric Daman and Meredith Markworth-Pollack considered fashion model Kate Moss and New York socialites Tinsley Mortimer and Arden Wohl as a muse when dressing Lively and when asked if they were influenced by New York socialites, respectively. TV Guide named her the fifth most fashionable TV character. \"Glamour\" listed her as one of the 12 Most Stylish TV Characters.\n\nBlair and Serena's friendship was praised as \"it offered a relationship whose depth and complexity approached Rory and Paris' [from \"Gilmore Girls\"].\" \"Vanity Fair\" considered Serena's murder storyline to be \"unrealistic\" and \"an obvious ratings ploy,\" going on to compare it to a dramatic scene in \"The O.C.\", in which Marissa shot Ryan Atwood's brother, stating that the show may have possibly jumped the shark.\n\nFor her portrayal of Serena van der Woodsen, Blake Lively won the 2008 Teen Choice Award for Choice TV Actress Drama and was nominated for the same award in 2009 and 2010, losing to her co-star, Leighton Meester, who portrays Blair Waldorf. She, however, won the award again in 2011. Lively also earned a People's Choice Award nomination for Favorite TV Drama Actress in 2011 and 2012.\n"}
{"id": "2238912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238912", "title": "Šta je to u tvojim venama", "text": "Šta je to u tvojim venama\n\nŠta je to u tvojim venama (English: \"What Is It In Your Veins?\"), later renamed Kukavica (English: \"Coward\"), is the fifth studio album by Serbian singer Ceca. It was released in 1993 on CD and MC. It was soon re-released under the title \"Kukavica\" with the song of the same name as the first track, as it became the biggest hit from the album.\n"}
{"id": "2238913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238913", "title": "Kousséri", "text": "Kousséri\n\nKousséri (from \"Qussur\" meaning \"palaces\"), founded and known as Mser in the indigenous Mser language is a city in Far North Province, Cameroon, lying on the border with Chad, across the Chari River from N'Djamena. It is the capital of the Logone-et-Chari department. It is a market town, and its population has recently been swollen by refugees from Chad. It had a population of 89,123 at the 2005 Census. The majority of the population are Arabs, many of them come from neighboring Chad, see: \"Baggara\".\n\nKousséri was part of the Bornu Empire. In March 1846 Omar (son of Sheik Mohammed), nominal general of the Bornu sultan Ibrahim suffered a defeat at Kousséri.\nIn 1900 the village was occupied by soldiers of Rabij az-Zubayr (Rabih), a Sudanese warlord. On 3 March it was taken by the combined forces of two French expeditions, one under Major Lamy from Algeria and the other under Lt. Paul Joalland from Senegal and local forces opposed to Rabih. Rabih was not in Kousseri at the time but established himself in a fort on the right bank of the Chari. Lamy did not think he had sufficient forces to attack Rabih immediately, but waited until the beginning of April when he was joined by a third expedition that was coming up the Chari under Émile Gentil. When he arrived the combined forces crossed the Chari and attacked Rabih. The battle of Kousséri was a decisive battle which secured French rule over Chad.\n\n"}
{"id": "2238922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238922", "title": "AISSMS College of Engineering", "text": "AISSMS College of Engineering\n\nAISSMS (All India Shri Shivaji Memorial Society's) College of Engineering is a private engineering college located in Pune, Maharashtra, India. The college is affiliated with the University of Pune and was founded by Chhatrapati Shri Shahu Maharaj of Kolhapur, leading to the college's establishment in 1992. The institute is located close to the Regional Transport Office and shares its campus with a pharmacy college, Polytechnic and business school. At present, AISSMS offers bachelor's degrees in eight branches of engineering: NAAC- A+ (3.27 CGPA) & *NBA ACCREDITATION*\n\nThe college has an annual intake of 660 students for the under graduate course and an intake of 126 students for the post graduate course.\n\nAISSMS CoE is located in the heart of the city in the area of Shivajinagar, around 5 minutes' walk from the Pune railway station, and is easily accessible from all parts of the city. The college is located on 11 acres (45,000 m) of land and boasts a large ground on campus which is used for various sports competitions, parades and events.\n\nChemical Engineering: National Board of Accreditation has accredited the B.E. Chemical Engineering program for two years starting from Sept., 2013. University of Pune has also awarded permanent affiliation status for the UG program recently - which was started in 1996. M.E. in Chemical Engineering program was started in the year of 2011-12 to cater to the demand of Industry and R & D establishments.\n\nCivil Engineering: Bachelor's Degree in Civil Engineering was started in 2002, with intake of 60 students and additional intake of 60 students in 2012. M.E. in Structures was started 2011 with intake of 18 students.\n\nComputer Engineering: B.E. in Computer Engineering is provisionally accredited by National Board of Accreditation (NBA), New Delhi. The course was started in the year 1998 with an intake of 120 Students.\n\nElectrical Engineering: The department offers a B.E. program in \"Electrical Engineering\" since 1992 and a Post Graduate program M.E. in \"Power Electronics and Drives\" under affiliation with University of Pune.\n\nElectronics Engineering: The course leading to a bachelor's degree in Electronics Engineering was started in the year 1992 with an intake of 60. The department has also started Post Graduate Program in Electronics and Telecommunication in Microwave (M.E.) having an intake of 18.\n\nMechanical Engineering: National Board of Accreditation has accredited the department for a period of two years starting September 2013. Undergraduate course for Bachelor in Mechanical Engineering (B.E.) was started in 1992 with an intake of 60 students and additional intake of 60 students in 2012. A post graduate course in Automotive Engineering (M.E.) was started in 2010, while M.E. in Design Engineering was started in 2013 - both courses have an intake of 18 students.\n\nMechanical Engineering (Sandwich): National Board of Accreditation has accredited the department for a period of two years starting September 2013. B.E. in Mechanical Engineering (Sandwich) was started in 1994 with an intake of 60 students. This course includes six semester of classroom training and two semesters of industrial training.\n\nProduction Engineering (\"Sandwich\"): The course leading to a bachelor's degree in Production Engineering was started in the year 1994 with an intake of 60. This course includes six semester of classroom training and two semesters of industrial training.\n\nEngineering Today (ET): A technical event Engineering Today (AISSMS ET) is organized every year on Engineer's Day (15 September). Engineering students from all over the country exhibit their talent by participating in various competitions, viz. poster, paper, project, quiz, robotics, programming, model making, debate, design and workshop. In the event, around 30 technical competitions are organized in collaboration with the industry, which sponsors the awards for the competitors.\n\nAshwamedh: Every year, an annual event Ashwamedh is organized at the educational complex? Engineering students from all over state exhibit their talent by participating in various cultural and sports competitions, viz. Dance, Singing, Band, Photography, One-Act Play, Football, Basketball, Kabaddi, Chess, Table-Tennis, Badminton, etc.\n\nShivanjali: An annual Social Gathering and Excellence Award Ceremony, Shivanjali, is organized. The students whose performance is excellent in various activities like academic, co-curricular, cultural and sports are awarded with trophy and certificate during the ceremony. Various entertainment programs are organized by the students.\n\nShivaji Trophy: It is a State level Inter-Collegiate T-20 Cricket tournament, held on the occasion of Shivaji Jayanti at the educational complex.\n\nInter-collegiate competitions: University of Pune, Pune City Zonal Sports committee organizes various Inter-collegiate sports. The college students participate in the events like Athletics, handball, Football, Volleyball, Table-tennis, Badminton, Kho – Kho etc. at various Inter-Collegiate, Inter-Zonal, Inter-University, State level and National level competition. Students of the institute have earned applauds in the competitions at University, State and National level - the prominent one's are Verve, Vedant, Purushottam Karandak, Firodiya Karandak, Crescendo, Milanze, Zest, Versatalia, MIT Summit, Sakal Karandak, Sarpotdar Karandak, etc.\n\nBlood donation camp and health checkup: Since the last sixteen years, blood donation camp is held in the premises of the AISSMS College of Engineering, in association with Armed Forces Medical College, Pune (AFMC) and Sassoon Hospital. The blood donation camp is organized on the occasion of Teacher's Day (5 September) by the General Student Association Committee (GSA). Health Check Camp for students, teaching and non-teaching staff is also conducted.\n\nSAE Collegiate Club: Under Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE), India - the college team, Resonance Racing, has participated and won at various national and international events like BAJA and SUPRA.\n\n"}
{"id": "2238925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238925", "title": "Ja još spavam u tvojoj majici", "text": "Ja još spavam u tvojoj majici\n\nJa još spavam u tvojoj majici (English: \"I Still Sleep In Your Shirt\") is the sixth studio album by Serbian singer Ceca. It was released in 1994 and is the second time she worked with Futa (Aleksandar Radulović) a rock/metal oriented composer, which resulted in rock/folk songs full of guitar riffs.\n\n"}
{"id": "2238929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238929", "title": "Blekbala Mujik", "text": "Blekbala Mujik\n\nBlekbala Mujik (Black People's Music) are an Australian rock, reggae group formed in Barunga, Northern Territory in 1986. They fused rock and reggae with a pop, dance sound and have support base for their live shows and recordings. They are cited in the \"World Music: The Rough Guide\" as next best known to Yothu Yindi. The band sings in English and in Kriol (a creole language based on English and Australian Aboriginal languages). At the ARIA Music Awards of 1996 their album, \"Blekbala Mujik\" (May 1996), was nominated for Best Indigenous Release.\n\nBlekbala Mujik were formed in 1986 in the rural community of Barunga (Gulin-Gulin) in central Arnhem Land. The founding member, Peter Miller on vocals and guitar, lives in Alice Springs, and was a member of the Northern Land Council. The band sings partly in English and partly in Kriol, which is a creole language based on English and Australian Aboriginal languages. \"Blekbala mujik\" means \"blackfella music\" in Kriol.\n\nThe group signed with Central Australian Aboriginal Media Association (CAAMA) and, in 1990, they issued two albums, \"Nitmiluk\" and \"Midnait Mujik\". In 1993 they issued a seven-track cassette, \"Come-N-Dance\". In May 1996 they followed with their eponymous full length album, \"Blekbala Mujik\", via CAAMA and distributed by Shock Records, which Australian musicologist, Ian McFarlane, described as \"a mix of catchy Aboriginal pop, reggae, techno-tribal dance material and bright funky rock.\" At the ARIA Music Awards of 1996 in September, \"Blekbala Mujik\" was nominated for Best Indigenous Release.\n\nAlongside Miller other members have included Dwayne Billy on percussion (clapsticks), Johnny Blanasi on lead guitar, Jason Fuller on percussion (clapsticks), Lachlan Gela Lawrence on bass guitar and vocals, Wayne Kala Kala on drums, Allen Murphy on drums (ex-Warumpi Band, Village People, Yothu Yindi), Lazarus Murray on yidaki (see didjeridoo) and Thomas Valandhu on drums. In June 1997 they issued \"Walking Together\" as a CD single. In February 2013 they issued a new album, \"We Are One\", and followed with a compilation, live album, \"Greatest Hits Live\", in September 2014.\n\n\nNitmiluk (1990) - CAAMA\n\nMidnait Mujik (1990) - CAAMA\n\nCome-N-Dance (1993) - CAAMA\n\nTracks:\n\nBlekbala Mujik (May 1996) CAAMA/Shock Records\n\nTracks:\n\nWalking Together (1995) - CAAMA\n\nTracks:\n\n\nBlekbala Mujik have been cited in numerous articles on Indigenous Australian music.\n\n"}
{"id": "2238931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238931", "title": "Fatalna ljubav", "text": "Fatalna ljubav\n\nFatalna ljubav (English: \"Fatal Love\") is the seventh studio album by Serbian singer Ceca. It was released in 1995 became the best-selling album of the year in her home country of Serbia. It's Edin Dervišhalidović Ceca former who wrote the lyrics on the album.\n\n"}
{"id": "2238936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238936", "title": "Projection screen", "text": "Projection screen\n\nA projection screen is an installation consisting of a surface and a support structure used for displaying a projected image for the view of an audience. Projection screens may be permanently installed, as in a movie theater; painted on the wall; or portable with tripod or floor rising models as in a conference room or other non-dedicated viewing space. Another popular type of portable screens are inflatable screens for outdoor movie screening (open air cinema). \n\nUniformly white or grey screens are used almost exclusively as to avoid any discoloration to the image, while the most desired brightness of the screen depends on a number of variables, such as the ambient light level and the luminous power of the image source. Flat or curved screens may be used depending on the optics used to project the image and the desired geometrical accuracy of the image production, flat screens being the more common of the two. Screens can be further designed for front or back projection, the more common being front projection systems, which have the image source situated on the same side of the screen as the audience.\n\nDifferent markets exist for screens targeted for use with digital projectors, movie projectors, overhead projectors and slide projectors, although the basic idea for each of them is very much the same: front projection screens work on diffusely reflecting the light projected on to them, whereas back projection screens work by diffusely transmitting the light through them.\n\nIn the commercial movie theaters, the screen is a reflective surface that may be either aluminized (for high contrast in moderate ambient light) or a white surface with small glass beads (for high brilliance under dark conditions). The screen also has hundreds of small, evenly spaced holes to allow air to and from the speakers and subwoofer, which often are directly behind it.\n\nRigid wall-mounted screens maintain their geometry perfectly just like the big movie screens, which makes them suitable for applications that demand exact reproduction of image geometry. Such screens are often used in home theaters, along with the pull-down screens.\nPull-down screens (also known as manual wall screens) are often used in spaces where a permanently installed screen would require too much space. These commonly use painted fabric that is rolled in the screen case when not used, making them less obtrusive when the screen is not in use.\n\nFixed-frame screens provide the greatest level of uniform tension on the screens surface, resulting in the optimal image quality. They are often used in home theater and professional environments where the screen does not need to be recessed into the case.\nElectric screens can be wall mounted, ceiling mounted or ceiling recessed. These are often larger screens, though electric screens are available for home theater use as well. Electric screens are similar to pull-down screens, but instead of the screen being pulled down manually, an electric motor raises and lowers the screen. Electric screens are usually raised or lowered using either a remote control or wall-mounted switch, although some projectors are equipped with an interface that connects to the screen and automatically lowers the screen when the projector is switched on and raises it when the projector is switched off.\n\nSwitchable projection screens can be switched between opaque and clear. In the opaque state, projected image on the screen can be viewed from both sides. It is very good for advertising on store windows.\nMobile screens usually use either a pull-down screen on a free stand, or pull up from a weighted base. These can be used when it is impossible or impractical to mount the screen to a wall or a ceiling.\n\nBoth mobile and permanently installed pull-down screens may be of tensioned or not tensioned variety. Tensioned models attempt to keep the fabric flat and immobile, whereas the not tensioned models have the fabric of the screen hanging freely from their support structures. In the latter screens the fabric can rarely stay immobile if there are currents of air in the room, giving imperfections to the projected image.\n\nSpecialty screens may not fall into any of these categories. These include non-solid screens, inflatable screens and others. See the respective articles for more information.\n\nOne of the most often quoted properties in a home theater screen is the gain. This is a measure of reflectivity of light compared to a screen coated with magnesium carbonate, titanium dioxide, or\nbarium sulfate when the measurement is taken for light targeted and reflected perpendicular to the screen. Titanium dioxide is a bright white colour, but greater gains can be accomplished with materials that reflect more of the light parallel to projection axis and less off-axis.\n\nFrequently quoted gain levels of various materials range from 0.8 of light grey matte screens to 2.5 of the more highly reflective glass bead screens, some manufacturers claiming even higher numbers for their products. Very high gain levels could be attained simply by using a mirror surface, although the audience would then just see a reflection of the projector, defeating the purpose of using a screen. Many screens with higher gain are simply semi-glossy, and so exhibit more mirror-like properties, namely a bright \"hot spot\" in the screen—an enlarged (and greatly blurred) reflection of the projector’s lens. Opinions differ as to when this \"hot spotting\" begins to be distracting, but most viewers do not notice differences as large as 30% in the image luminosity, unless presented with a test image and asked to look for variations in brightness. This is possible because humans have greater sensitivity to contrast in smaller details, but less so in luminosity variations as great as half of the screen. Other screens with higher gain are semi-retroreflective. Unlike mirrors, retroreflective surfaces reflect light back toward the source. Hot spotting is less of a problem with retroreflective high gain screens. Unfortunately, at the perpendicular direction used for gain measurement, mirror reflection and retroreflection are indistinguishable, and this has sown confusion about the behavior of high gain screens.\n\nA second common confusion about screen gain arises for grey colored screens. If a screen material looks grey on casual examination then its \"total\" reflectance is much less than 1. However, the grey screen can have measured gain of 1 or even much greater than 1. The \"geometric\" behavior of a grey screen is different from that of a white screen of identical gain. Therefore, since geometry is important in screen applications, screen materials should be at least specified by their gain and their total reflectance. Instead of total reflectance, \"geometric gain\" (equal to the gain divided by the total reflectance) can be the second specification.\n\nCurved screens can be made highly reflective without introducing any visible hot spots, if the curvature of the screen, placement of the projector and the seating arrangement are designed correctly. The object of this design is to have the screen reflect the projected light back to the audience, effectively making the entire screen a giant \"hot spot\". If the angle of reflection is about the same across the screen, no distracting artifacts will be formed.\n\nSemi-specular high gain screen materials are suited to ceiling-mounted projector setups since the greatest intensity of light will be reflected downward toward the audience at an angle equal and opposite to the angle of incidence. However, for a viewer seated to one side of the audience the opposite side of the screen is much darkened for the same reason. Some structured screen materials are semi-specularly reflective in the vertical plane while more perfectly diffusely reflective in the horizontal plane to avoid this. Glass-bead screens exhibit a phenomenon of retroreflection; the light is reflected more intensely back to its source than in any other direction. They work best for setups where the image source is placed in the same direction from the screen as the audience. With retroreflective screens, the screen center might be brighter than the screen periphery, a kind of hot spotting. This differs from semi-specular screens where the hot spot's location varies depending on the viewer's position in the audience. Retroreflective screens are seen as desirable due to the high image intensity they can produce with a given luminous flux from a projector.\n\nSquare-shaped screens used for overhead projectors sometimes double as projection screens for digital projectors in meeting rooms, where space is scarce and multiple screens can seem redundant. These screens have an aspect ratio of 1:1 by definition.\n\nMost image sources are designed to project a perfectly rectangular image on a flat screen. If the audience stays relatively close to the projector, a curved screen may be used instead without visible distortion in the image geometry. Viewers closer or farther away will see a pincushion or barrel distortion, and the curved nature of the screen will become apparent when viewed off-axis.\n\nApparent contrast in a projected image — the range of brightness — is dependent on the ambient light conditions, luminous power of the projector and the size of the image being projected. A larger screen size means less luminous (luminous power per unit solid angle per unit area) and thus less contrast in the presence of ambient light. Some light will always be created in the room when an image is projected, increasing the ambient light level and thus contributing to the degradation of picture quality. This effect can be lessened by decorating the room with dark colours. The real-room situation is different from the contrast ratios advertised by projector manufacturers, who record the light levels with projector on full black / full white, giving as high contrast ratios as possible.\n\nManufacturers of home theater screens have attempted to resolve the issue of ambient light by introducing screen surfaces that direct more of the light back to the light source. The rationale behind this approach relies on having the image source placed near the audience, so that the audience will actually see the increased reflected light level on the screen.\n\nHighly reflective flat screens tend to suffer from hot spots, when part of the screen seems much more bright than the rest. This is a result of the high directionality (mirror-likeness) of such screens. Screens with high gain also have a narrower usable viewing angle, as the amount of reflected light rapidly decreases as the viewer moves away from front of such screen. Because of the said effect, these screens are also less vulnerable to ambient light coming from the sides of the screen, as well.\n\nA relatively recent attempt in improving the perceived image quality is the introduction of grey screens, which are more capable of darker tones than their white counterparts. A matte grey screen would have no advantage over a matte white screen in terms of contrast; contemporary grey screens are rather designed to have a gain factor similar to those of matte white screens, but a darker appearance. A darker (grey) screen reflects less light, of course—both light from the projector and ambient light. This decreases the luminance (brightness) of both the projected image and ambient light, so while the light areas of the projected image are dimmer, the dark areas are darker; white is less bright, but intended black is closer to actual black. Many screen manufacturers thus appropriately call their grey screens \"high-contrast\" models.\n\nAlthough a projection screen cannot improve a projector's contrast level, the \"perceived\" contrast can be boosted.\n\nIn an optimal viewing room, the projection screen is reflective, whereas the surroundings are not. The ambient light level is related to the overall reflectivity of the screen, as well as that of the surroundings. In cases where the area of the screen is large compared to that of the surroundings, the screen’s contribution to the ambient light may dominate and the effect of the non-screen surfaces of the room may even be negligible. Some examples of this are planetariums and virtual-reality cubes featuring front-projection technology. Some planetariums with dome-shaped projection screens have thus opted to paint the dome interior in gray, in order to reduce the degrading effect of inter-reflections when images of the sun are displayed simultaneously with images of dimmer objects.\n\nGrey screens are designed to rely on powerful image sources that are able to produce adequate levels of luminosity so that the white areas of the image still appear as white, taking advantage of the non-linear perception of brightness in the human eye. People may perceive a wide range of luminosities as \"white\", as long as the visual clues present in the environment suggest such an interpretation. A grey screen may thus succeed almost as well in delivering a bright-looking image, or fail to do so in other circumstances.\n\nCompared to a white screen, a grey screen reflects less light \"to\" the room and less light \"from\" the room, making it increasingly effective in dealing with the light originating from the projector. Ambient light originating from other sources may reach the eye immediately after having reflected from the screen surface, giving no advantage over a white high-gain screen in terms of contrast ratio. The potential improvement from a grey screen may thus be best realized in a darkened room, where the only light is that of the projector.\n\nPartly fueled by popularity, grey screen technology has improved greatly in recent years. Grey screens are now available in various gain and grey-scale levels.\n\nCertain screens are claimed to selectively reflect the narrow wavelengths of projector light while absorbing other wavelengths in the optical spectrum. Sony makes a screen that appears grey in normal room light, and is intended to reduce the effect of ambient light. This is purported to work by preferentially absorbing ambient light of colors not used by the projector, while preferentially reflecting the colors of red, green and blue light the projector uses. A true color-selective screen has not been substantiated. A contrast-enhancing screen has been introduced by Dai Nippon Printing (DNP) and Screen Innovations that is based on thin layers of black louvers rather than wavelength-selective reflection properties.\n\nIn an optimally configured system, projection screen surface and the real image plane are made to coincide. From an optical point of view, a screen is not needed for the image to form; screens are rather used to make an image visible.\n"}
{"id": "2238937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238937", "title": "Cherry Ripe (song)", "text": "Cherry Ripe (song)\n\nCherry Ripe is an English song with words by poet Robert Herrick (1591–1674) and music by Charles Edward Horn (1786–1849) which contains the refrain,\n\nCherry ripe, cherry ripe,<br>\nRipe I cry,<br>\nFull and fair ones<br>\nCome and buy.<br>\nCherry ripe, cherry ripe,<br>\nRipe I cry,<br>\nFull and fair ones<br>\nCome and buy.\n\nAn earlier poem by Thomas Campion (1567–1620) used the same title \"Cherry Ripe\", and has other similarities. It is thought that the refrain originated as a trader's street cry.\n\nThe song's title has been used in other contexts on a number of occasions since and its tune has also been appropriated for other uses. The song was popular in the 19th century and at the time of World War I.\n\nDuring the late 1800s, an alternative version of the song briefly appeared. The lyrics were as follows\n\nCherry Ripe, Cherry Ripe <br>\nRipe I cry <br>\nFull and fair ones <br>\nTill I die <br>\nCherry ripe, Cherry ripe <br>\nMouse and I <br>\nRiver's where we're <br>\nTill you die\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2238942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238942", "title": "Emotivna luda", "text": "Emotivna luda\n\nEmotivna luda (English: \"Emotionally Crazy\") is the eighth studio album by Serbian singer Ceca. It was released in 1996.\n\n"}
{"id": "2238946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238946", "title": "Arthur Paget (British Army officer)", "text": "Arthur Paget (British Army officer)\n\nGeneral Sir Arthur Henry Fitzroy Paget, (1 March 1851 – 8 December 1928) was a soldier who reached the rank of General and served as Commander-in-Chief, Ireland, where he was partly responsible for the Curragh Incident.\n\nPaget was the son of Lord Alfred Paget and Cecilia Wyndham,\n\nIn July 1878, Paget married the American heiress Mary \"Minnie\" Stevens (1853-1919) (daughter of Massachusetts hotel proprietors Paran Stevens and Marietta Reed Stevens), who became a noted society hostess, famed for her jewels.\n\nThey had one daughter, Louise, who married her distant cousin, the diplomat Ralph Paget; and three sons, Albert, Arthur and Reginald, who all became army officers.\n\nDuring the 1870s Paget was a leading owner of steeplechasers. Until 1878 he used the nom de plume 'Mr Fitzroy'. Under this pseudonym, Paget wrote several novels in the Naturalist style, recounting his exploits in the military.\n\nPaget was commissioned into the Scots Guards in 1869. He took part in the Ashanti War in West Africa in 1873 and then served in Sudan and Burma.\n\nDuring the Second Boer War Colonel Paget temporarily took command of 1st (Guards) Brigade in Lord Methuen's 1st Division after the Battle of Modder River, and then as a Major-General formed and commanded a new 20th Brigade in the same division during Lord Roberts' advance through the Transvaal. Later he commanded an independent column. Paget wrote to French praising his leadership in South Africa, and claiming that respect for him had been his reason for remaining in the Army.\n\nHe was appointed General Officer Commanding the 1st Infantry Division within 1st Army Corps in September 1902, and at the same time temporarily assumed command of the 2nd Infantry Brigade in the Marlborough lines at Aldershot, where the Brigade of Guards were to be quartered. Six years later he became General Officer Commanding-in-Chief for Eastern Command in 1908. When GOC Eastern Command in 1909 he seldom visited his office, preferring “other activities”. In 1911, when he “commanded” one of the forces on the Annual Manoeuvres, he did not actually attend, and his BGGS (Brigadier-General, chief of Staff) Aylmer Haldane had to brief him on the train from London to Salisbury so that he could participate in the discussion afterwards.\n\nIn 1911 he moved on to be Commander-in-Chief, Ireland, where Lady Paget became a society hostess.\n\nWith Irish Home Rule due to become law in 1914, the Cabinet were beginning to contemplate some kind of military action against the Ulster Volunteers who wanted no part of it. French (CIGS) and Seely (Secretary of State for War) summoned Paget to the War Office for talks. Paget’s letter (19 October 1913) suggests that he wanted “partial mobilisation”.\n\nThe following spring, Paget was sent a letter by the secretary of the Army Council warning that “evil-disposed persons” might attempt to seize weapons. Paget reported that he was drawing up plans to protect arms depots as ordered, but warning that large-scale troop movements would exacerbate the situation. Paget was summoned to London for a meeting with the Cabinet Committee on Ireland and other officers. On the evening of 18 March Paget wired Maj-Gen Friend that the troop movements were to be completed by dawn on Sunday 31 March. Paget was summoned to another meeting on 19 March at which Seely declared that the government was pressing ahead with Home Rule and had no intention of allowing civil war to break out, suggesting that the Ulster Volunteers were to be crushed if they attempted to start one. Paget said that he would “lead his Army to the Boyne” - French immediately told him not to be “a bloody fool”.\n\nPaget travelled to Dublin that night in a state of high excitement, having been given no written orders (it is unclear whether or not this was because there were things which the politicians were reluctant to put in writing). The next morning (Friday 20 March), Paget addressed senior officers at his headquarters in Dublin. Three different accounts (written by Paget, Fergusson and Gough in his 1954 memoirs \"Soldiering On\") exist, but it is clear that Paget exacerbated the situation. Paget claimed that with French’s assistance he had obtained “concessions” from Seely, namely that officers who lived in Ulster would be permitted to “disappear” for the duration, but that other officers who refused to serve against Ulster would be dismissed rather than being permitted to resign. By Gough’s account, he said that “active operations were to commence against Ulster” and that Gough – who had a family connection to Ulster but did not actually live there - could expect no mercy from his “old friend at the War Office”. French, Paget and Ewart had actually (on 19 March) agreed that officers with “direct family connections” to Ulster should be left behind. In effectively offering his officers an ultimatum, Paget was acting foolishly, as the majority would probably have obeyed if simply ordered north. Paget ended the meeting by ordering his officers to speak to their subordinates and then report back. Gough did not attend the second meeting in the afternoon, at which Paget confirmed that the purpose of the move was to overawe Ulster rather than fight, but at which he claimed that the orders had the King’s \"personal\" sanction.\n\nPaget informed the War Office by telegram (evening of 20 March) that 57 officers preferred to accept dismissal (it was actually 61 including Gough). On the morning of Saturday 21 March Fergusson toured units, assuring them of his own unionist sympathies but urging them to do their duty – this action had a good effect. Paget did the same but his speech was described by one colonel as “absolutely unconvincing and inconclusive”.\n\nThe elderly Field-Marshal Roberts later learned from an interview with Seely (21 March) that Paget had been acting without authority in talking of “active operations” and in giving officers a chance to discuss hypothetical orders and attempt to resign. This news helped persuade Hubert Gough to remain in the Army, albeit with a written guarantee (which the government then repudiated) that the Army would not be used against Ulster.\n\nPaget was, in the end, able to conduct the precautionary moves planned on 18 and 19 March.\n\nPaget relinquished Irish Command on the outbreak of World War I. He continued to serve during the war, although not in France. Edmonds later claimed that Paget had been the best candidate to command III Corps in September 1914 (it went to Pulteney) but that French passed him over having had a row with him on manoeuvres in 1913. French tried to obtain an Army command for him in June 1915 (Richard Holmes writes that French remained fond of him but insisted on his suitability despite “impressive evidence to the contrary”). From April 1916 to February 1918 he commanded Southern Army charged with the defence of South-East England while French was Commander-in-Chief of Home Forces. He retired in 1918.\n\nPaget talked of the “dirty swine of politicians. Victor Bonham-Carter (p78 of “Soldier True”, his biography of Robertson) described him as “a stupid, arrogant, quick-tempered man”. Sir Harold Nicolson wrote, more diplomatically, that “he was not a man of measured language or meek tact”.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2238950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238950", "title": "Nils Blommér", "text": "Nils Blommér\n\nNils Jakob Olsson Blommér (12 June 1816 – 1 February 1853) was a Swedish painter.\n\nBlommér was born in Blommeröd, a village in Scania.\n\nStarting his career as an apprentice in Lund he experimented with painting portraits from the age of 20. He achieved some successes and in 1839 he had saved up enough money to move to Stockholm. There he took the name \"Blommér\" and enrolled in the Royal Swedish Academy of Arts. After winning the academy's prize several times he got a stipend in 1847 to travel abroad. He spent time in Paris but later moved to Italy, where he married his wife Edla Gustafva Jansson, also a painter, in November 1852. A few months later he caught a fatal chest disease and died at Rome in February 1853.\n\nBlommér's best known works are based on Norse mythology and folklore. They include \"Älfdrömmen\", \"Sommarnattsdrömmen\", \"Näcken och Ägirs döttrar\", \"Brage och Iduna\", \"Freja\", \"Loke och Sigyn\" and \"Älfvor\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2238952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238952", "title": "TCAP", "text": "TCAP\n\nTCAP may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2238956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238956", "title": "Maskarada", "text": "Maskarada\n\nMaskarada (English: \"The Masquerade\") is the ninth studio album by Serbian singer Ceca. It was released in 1997.\n\n"}
{"id": "2238957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238957", "title": "Pickering Castle", "text": "Pickering Castle\n\nPickering Castle is a motte-and-bailey fortification in Pickering, North Yorkshire, England.\n\nPickering Castle was originally a timber and earth motte and bailey castle. It was developed into a stone motte and bailey castle which had a stone shell keep. The current inner ward was originally the bailey, and was built between 1180 and 1187. The keep was developed into a stone shell keep sometime during the years 1216 to 1236 along with the chapel – there is a reconstruction of the chapel at the site. Between the years 1323 and 1326 there was an outer ward and curtain wall built, along with three towers. There were also two ditches, one situated outside of the curtain wall and one in the outer ward. After this a gatehouse, ovens, hall and the storehouses were built. The castle is situated in the Vale of Pickering and has a considerably steep cliff on the west side which would have been a great defensive attribute. \n\nThe original structure was built by the Normans under William the Conqueror in 1069–1070. This early building included the large, central mound (the motte), the outer palisades (enclosing the bailey) and internal buildings, notably the keep on top of the motte. Ditches were also dug to make assault on the walls difficult. The main purpose of the castle at this time was to maintain control of the area after the Harrying of the North.\n\nIts remains are particularly well-preserved because it is one of only a few castles which were largely unaffected by the 15th-century Wars of the Roses and the English Civil War of the 17th century.\n\nIn 1926, the Ministry of Works (the predecessor of English Heritage) took possession of the castle. It is a Scheduled Monument and open to the public.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2238970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238970", "title": "Ceca 2000", "text": "Ceca 2000\n\nCeca 2000 is the tenth studio album by Serbian singer Ceca. It was released in 1999.\n\n"}
{"id": "2238975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238975", "title": "Brad Fittler", "text": "Brad Fittler\n\nBradley Scott 'Freddy' Fittler (born 5 February 1972), also known by the nickname of \"Freddy\", is the head coach of the New South Wales State of Origin team and at international level he coaches Lebanon. He also works as a commentator and as a television presenter. Fittler has previously coached the NSW City side and the Sydney Roosters in the NRL. He is a former professional player who was named among the finest rugby league footballers of the first century of rugby league in Australia.\n\nNicknamed 'lil Freddy', Fittler captained both New South Wales and Australia, and in 2000 was awarded the Golden Boot. He retired as the most-capped New South Wales State of Origin player, inducted into the NSWRL Hall of Fame as an Immortal and third-most-capped Australian international player. Fittler won two Rugby League World Cups as a team captain; he captained the Kangaroos to victory in both the 1995 and 2000 finals, and was also a member of the victorious 1992 team.\n\nFittler coached in the NRL for the Sydney Roosters between 2007 and 2009 and for the City New South Wales team in the City vs. Country clash from 2012 to 2017. He has also coached at international level with the Lebanon national rugby league team at the 2017 Rugby League World Cup.\n\nFittler was born in Auburn, New South Wales, Australia of German descent. He grew up with the 2 of his siblings, Nathan and Kathleen Fittler. He played junior rugby league for a number of clubs in the Parramatta JRL District including, Sadleir Bulldogs, Dayments, Ashcroft Stallions and Mt. Pritchard Community Club (Mounties) before moving to Cambridge Park in the Penrith JRL District . While attending Ashcroft High School, St Dominic's College then later, McCarthy Catholic Senior High School Emu Plains, Fittler played for the Australian Schoolboys team in 1988 and 1989.\n\nBrad Fittler's first grade career started in 1989 at the Penrith Panthers while he was still attending McCarthy Catholic Senior High School in the western suburbs of Sydney.\n\nFittler played in the centres in Penrith's 18-14 loss to the Canberra Raiders in the 1990 Grand Final and at the end of the season was selected for Australia and went on the 1990 Kangaroo tour of Great Britain and France. Fittler did not play in a test on the tour, but played in 8 tour games and scored 8 tries.\n\nIn 1991 he was part the Panthers' premiership winning-side. Fittler played in the centres as Penrith, under the coaching of Phil Gould won their first ever premiership. At the end of the season he was selected for the Kangaroos five game tour of Papua New Guinea and made his test debut for Australia, playing at lock in Australia's two test series victory over the Papua New Guinea Kumuls, scoring two tries on debut at the Danny Leahy Oval in Goroka. Fittler played in all five games during the two-week tour and scored 4 tries.\n\nDuring the 1992 Great Britain Lions tour of Australia and New Zealand, he helped Australia retain The Ashes. Fittler, like the rest of the Penrith club, endured a tough 1992 season due to the death of his best mate, up-and-coming halfback/hooker Ben Alexander, the younger brother of Penrith captain Greg Alexander. Following Alexander's death in a car accident, Penrith's form dropped off in the second half of the season with the defending premiers finishing out of the finals in 9th place. As a result of Alexander's death which happened between the first and second Ashes tests, Fittler was left out of the second test team by his own request, but returned to the team in the deciding match in Brisbane which Australia won 16-10 to retain The Ashes.\n\nAt the end of the 1992 season, Fittler was selected in Australia's World Cup Final team to play Great Britain at Wembley Stadium. In front of a then international record attendance of 73,631 the Australians retained the Rugby League World Cup with a hard fought 10-6 win. During the first half, Fittler suffered a fractured cheekbone after being hit with an elbow from Lions hooker Martin Dermott who had gone into tackle the Australian with his elbow cocked. After being checked by team doctor Nathan Gibbs, Fittler continued playing.\n\nThe 1993 NSWRL season again saw the Panthers struggle, finishing 12th with a 7-15 record for the year. Fittler played all three games for NSW in their 2-1 Origin series win over Queensland, before playing in all three mid-year tests against New Zealand with Australia winning the series 2-0 after the first test at the Mount Smart Stadium in Auckland ended in a 14-all draw thanks to a late field goal by stand in Australian captain Laurie Daley.\n\nPenrith improved to a 10-10-2 record and an 8th-place finish in the 1994 NSWRL season, despite the late season walk-out of Phil Gould (who was moving to coach the Sydney City Roosters after falling out with the Penrith club board) who was replaced with Fittler's 1991 premiership team mate Royce Simmons. During the year he was selected at lock for a test against France at Sydney's Parramatta Stadium (won 58-0 by Australia) and at the end of the season he was selected for his second Kangaroo Tour. Fittler played at lock in all four tests against Great Britain (3) and France (1) on the tour, winning man of the match in Australia's 38-8 win in the second test at Old Trafford in Manchester to keep the Ashes series alive. The Kangaroos went on to win the third test 23-4 to retain the Ashes before demolishing France with a world record 74-0 win in Béziers. Fittler played in 12 games on tour (one as a replacement), scoring two tries. He was also named as Man of the Match playing at lock in Australia's non-test international played against Wales in Cardiff, scoring one of his tours two tries in the wet conditions (his only other try would come in the tours 3rd last game in France when he scored against a Catalans Seclection in a 60-16 win at the Stade Gilbert Brutus in Perpignan).\n\nBy 1995 Fittler was the world's highest-paid rugby league player, reportedly earning $1.05 million for the season. This was during the period of the Super League war when player payments rose to previously unheard of levels as both the Australian Rugby League (ARL), backed by media billionaire Kerry Packer, and the rebel Super League (SL), backed by News Ltd., signed up players for (in some cases) double or triple their previous contracts. Fittler signed with the Australian Rugby League.\n\nWith the ARL refusing to select SL aligned players for representative football, Fittler was given the captaincy of the NSW Origin team for the 1995 State of Origin series against Queensland. Coached by rookie coach Paul Vautin, and with a bunch of untried players thanks to not being able to call upon their usual Origin and test stars (mostly from the SL aligned Brisbane Broncos), Qld were not given any chance of defeating the Blues (who could still call on a number of experienced Origin and test players), but came away with a 3-0 whitewash for their first series win since 1991. However, despite this, Fittler was given the Australian captaincy for the 3-test Trans-Tasman series against New Zealand making him Australia's youngest captain (23) since Reg Gasnier had first captained Australia in 1962. Fittler led the Kangaroos to a 3-0 sweep of the Kiwis, including winning man of the match in the 20-10 second test win at the Sydney Football Stadium.\n\nAt the end of the 1995 ARL season, Fittler was an automatic choice to captain Australia in the 1995 Rugby League World Cup. Although the Kangaroos suffered a shock 20-16 loss to England in the opening game of the tournament at Wembley, and had a nervous, 30-20 win over New Zealand in extra-time in the Semi-final in Huddersfield after scores had been locked at 20-all at the end of regulation time, Fittler would lead Australia to its 8th World Cup success (and 5th in a row) with an 18-8 win over England in front of 66,540 fans at Wembley.\n\nIn 1996, he joined the Sydney City Roosters where he played nine seasons, captaining them to the 2002 NRL Grand Final victory. Fittler retired as the second most experienced first grader, behind Terry Lamb (349), having played 336 games.\n\nThe Rothmans Medal for player of the 1997 ARL Premiership was awarded to Sydney City Roosters captain and five-eighth, Fittler.\n\nHe was selected for Kangaroo Tours in 1990, 1994 and 2001 and played in the World Cups of 1992, 1995 and 2000.\nFittler was selected for the Australian team to compete in the end of season 1999 Rugby League Tri-Nations tournament. In the final against New Zealand he captained the Kangaroos at lock forward in their 22-20 victory.\nEarly in his career Fittler struggled with discipline problems, but he matured into a fine leader. He captained Australia in 20 Tests, winning 17 and losing 3, and in a further 5 victories in the 2000 World Cup. He also captained NSW in 14 State of Origin matches, winning 8 and losing 6.\n\nIn club competition, Fittler captained the Roosters to the 2000 NRL Grand Final, their first in twenty seasons, a Premiership in 2002 and successive grand final appearances in 2003 and 2004, before retiring at the end of 2004. Having won the 2002 NRL Premiership, the Roosters traveled to England to play the 2003 World Club Challenge against Super League champions, St Helens R.F.C.. Fittler captained at five-eighth, scoring a try in Sydney's victory.\n\nTwo years after Fittler announced his retirement from representative football, NSW coach Phil Gould brought him back to State of Origin for the second and third game. Both he and Gould were farewelled in the last game at Telstra Stadium after he scored the winning try that sealed the NSW victory.\n\nFittler remains the youngest NSW State of Origin player (18 years 114 days) and was once the youngest Kangaroo representative (18 years 247 days) until Israel Folau made his debut in late 2007.\n\nAs a tribute to Fittler's contribution to the NSW team, the Brad Fittler Medal is named in his honour, awarded to the best NSW player after each series victory by NSW. However, it is only awarded after NSW have won a series; and so was not awarded from 2005 till 2014, Queensland having won each series in the intervening years. In 2014 it was jointly awarded to Jarryd Hayne and Ryan Hoffman.\n\nIn February 2014, at 42 years of age, Fittler came out of retirement for a one-off showing at the NRL Auckland Nines. Representing the Sydney Roosters, he made a tackle on prop forward Fui Fui Moi Moi in the loss to the Parramatta Eels, before clipping Ben Barba high in a tackle, and also scoring a 75-metre intercept try off a David Stagg pass in their win over the Brisbane Broncos, his first try in 10 years.\n\nOn 9 July 2007, Roosters coach Chris Anderson quit the club, just 48 hours after the team lost 56–0 to the Manly Sea Eagles, their second worst ever loss. Fittler took over the coaching from Round 18, in what was initially for a short term until the end of the 2007 season. The Roosters, who were sitting near the bottom of the competition and struggling with form, turned a corner with Fittler as coach as they went on to post some impressive wins. His first match was against his former mentor, Ricky Stuart coaching the Cronulla Sharks. The Roosters won the match 23–12. His second match was against the Newcastle Knights and again the team was successful 20–17.\n\nOn 27 July 2007, Fittler's coaching career took a massive leap. The Roosters defeated the Melbourne Storm (front runners of the Premiership) 26–16, with the Storm scoring two late consolation tries. Former Roosters coach, Phil Gould remarked after the Melbourne game \"I've always had great confidence that \"Freddie\" would be successful at anything he turned his mind to. If he truly wants to be a coach, he'll be a bloody good one... I think in the end he was drawn to it and, to me, that's a coach. You don't wake up one day and say, 'I want to be a coach'. You are drawn to it. It compels you. I see and hear this in Freddie these days.\" Melbourne ultimately went on to win the title, which was later stripped due to salary cap breaches.\n\nFollowing the win over the Storm, the Roosters went up against the New Zealand Warriors, with the match resulting in the first draw since 2005 after a hard fought golden point period which ended with the score 31–31, keeping Fittler undefeated as coach.\n\nThat run was extended against the Wests Tigers on 10 August, with the second golden point game in a row for the club after a late field goal attempt from Braith Anasta hit the crossbar with 15 seconds to go. The game ended in a 26–22 win after Joel Monaghan scored the winning try.\n\nFittler's undefeated streak as a coach was broken on 19 August 2007 when the Roosters lost 22-18 to the Gold Coast Titans. The following week, in the penultimate round of the regular season, the Roosters lost to the eventual 2007 wooden spooners, the Penrith Panthers, 28–22.\n\nOn 21 August 2007, the Sydney Roosters signed Brad Fittler as their full-time Head Coach until the 2010 season.\n\nOn 20 June 2009, it was reported in the \"Townsville Bulletin\" that, a day earlier, a drunken Fittler had tried to gain access to the wrong hotel room while wearing only shorts. The incident occurred at the Holiday Inn in Townsville at 3am. Fittler consequently fined himself and apologised for his behaviour at a televised press conference.\n\nOn 18 July 2009, following an ongoing season of unrelenting disappointment at the Roosters, the media was informed that in 2010 Brad Fittler would not be part of the coaching staff at the Sydney Roosters, reportedly before he was. Indeed, the Roosters took out the 2009 wooden spoon and a clean-out of the club began. He was replaced by Brian Smith.\n\nIn 2010 Fittler was linked with a move to the London-based Super League side , but this has not eventuated.\n\nOn 24 November 2017, Fittler was announced as the new coach of the New South Wales State of Origin team and announced a significant change to the Game 1 roster compared to the previous series with the debut of 11 players for the match on 6 June 2018. He ultimately led the side to its first series win since 2014 with an 18–14 victory in the second game. He was again successful the following year as the Blues won consecutive series for the first time since 2004-05.\n\nFittler began his media career by co-hosting \"NRL Deluxe\", a streaming video show that aired on Mondays and Thursdays available via Bigpond TV. A year after his retirement, in 2005, Fittler released his book, \"Freddy: The Brad Fittler Story\". Brad has also starred in two Telstra Next G TV advertisements.\n\nIn 2010, Fittler joined the Nine Network. In 2010 and 2011, he was a part of The NRL Footy Show, as a co-host. Also, since 2010, he has co-hosted The Sunday Footy Show program. In 2016, he has a role in The NRL Rookie.\n\nIn 1999, Fittler was dropped onto the front lawn of a Sydney police station by a taxi driver after a night out. A police source described Fittler as \"the drunkest human being ever\".\n\nIn 2000, Fittler was awarded the Australian Sports Medal for his contribution to Australia's international standing in rugby league.\n\nIn February 2008, Fittler was named in the list of Australia's \"100 Greatest Players\" (1908–2007) which was commissioned by the NRL and ARL to celebrate the code's centenary year in Australia.\n\nFittler has a longtime partner, Marie Liarris. They have two children.\n\nIn 2009, Fittler fined himself $10,000 after police were called to Townsville's Holiday Inn after two female guests reported a \"creepy man\" with a \"hairy chest\" – wearing only shorts – trying to get into their room. Police arrived at 3.15am to find a \"very drunk\" Fittler still outside the room.\n\n"}
{"id": "2238977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238977", "title": "Algoma District School Board", "text": "Algoma District School Board\n\nAlgoma District School Board (known as English-language Public District School Board No. 2 prior to 1999) is a public school board in the Canadian province of Ontario. The school board is the school district administrator for the Algoma District.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2238980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238980", "title": "Indonesia–Malaysia–Singapore Growth Triangle", "text": "Indonesia–Malaysia–Singapore Growth Triangle\n\nThe Sijori was established in 1994 between three countries, Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore, to strengthen economic links in the region and optimise the complementarity between the three countries. It started off as the SIJORI Growth Triangle in 1989, which includes Singapore, Johor (in Malaysia), and a part of Riau Islands Province (in Indonesia), specifically the Riau Archipelago.\n\nThe SIJORI Growth Triangle is a partnership arrangement between Singapore, Johor (in Malaysia), and Riau Islands (in Indonesia) that combines the competitive strengths of the three areas to make the subregion more attractive to regional and international investors. More specifically, it links the infrastructure, capital, and expertise of Singapore with the natural and labour resources and the abundance of land of Johor and Riau.\n\nThe SIJORI Growth Triangle was first publicly announced in 1989 by Singapore Deputy Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong. The 'triangle of growth' was envisioned to be a key component of the Singapore regionalisation scheme of the 1980s and 1990s, relocating labour-intensive industries to neighbouring places such as the Malaysian state of Johor (known as the Iskandar Development Region) and the island of Batam in the nearby Indonesian province of Riau (at the time, before splitting off as a part of Riau Islands province in 2004).\n\nAs more Malaysian and Indonesian states joined the grouping, the IMS-GT was formed to formalise the new grouping. A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) was signed on 17 December 1994 by the representatives of the participating countries; Singapore's Deputy Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, Malaysia' s International Trade and Industry Minister Datuk Seri Rafidah Aziz and Indonesia's Coordinating Minister for Trade and Industry Hartono.\n\nEven with the low wages on Batam, some companies find themselves struggling with rising costs. Nidec, a Japanese conglomerate, has moved its factory from Batam to Vietnam due to labour costs.\n\nBatam is a tax free \"export zone\" rather than a free port, therefore much industry is limited to international exports. Batam has also become an alternate air transport hub as Java's airports are congested. Some 62,000 Singaporeans visited Batam in January 2012, compared with stronger links to Johor, some 70,000 daily. Indonesia has a long way to make its Riau islands competitive with Johor.\n\nsources: (Budan Pusat Statistik 2010 Census Indonesia, Statistics Singapore, Statistics Malaysia)\n\nFor GDP stats, Riau Island's Quarterly GDP output was Rp26.510.648,31 mln (Q1/14, US$2.3 billion or US$9 billion annual) Singapore's Quarterly GDP was 95,959.1 mln (Q1/14, $76.57 billion or US$310 billion annual) and Johor Bharu state was RM24,452 per capita (entire 2012, US$26 billion annual).\n\n"}
{"id": "2238981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238981", "title": "List of parenting issues affecting separated parents", "text": "List of parenting issues affecting separated parents\n\nThis list identifies a range of parenting issues that affecting separated and divorced parents, that is regarding their children:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2238987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238987", "title": "Dubplate", "text": "Dubplate\n\nA dubplate is an acetate disc usually of 10 inches diameter, traditionally used by studios to test recordings prior to mastering for the subsequent pressing of a vinyl record, but pioneered by reggae sound systems as a way to play exclusive music. They would later become an important facet of the jungle/drum and bass, UK garage, grime and dubstep music scenes.\n\nThe first use of dubplates is commonly attributed to sound engineer King Tubby and reggae sound systems such as Lloyd Coxsone and Killamanjaro. Special and one-off versions would be cut to acetate for competing in a sound clash, utilising vocals specially recorded to namecheck the sound system. As such, these would become known as \"dubplate specials\" often remarking on the prowess of the sound system playing it, in a bid to win the clash.\n\nIn the UK, the earliest place to cut reggae dubplates would also be one of the most unlikely. John Hassell and his wife ran a recording studio from their suburban house in Barnes, South West London, but would become key to British sound systems and artists such as Dennis Bovell. Throughout the 1980s and 1990s, Music House in North London and JTS Studio in East London would become the two most prominent \"cutting houses\".\n\nWhilst acetates have been used in the music industry for many years, especially in dance music, dubplates would become a particularly important part of the jungle/drum and bass scene throughout the 1990s. This would be followed through its descendants UK garage, grime and dubstep, and cutting houses such as Transition. New music would regularly be composed and recorded onto DAT tape in order for it to be cut onto dubplate, often so that it could be played that weekend (or even that night).\n\nDespite the shift to DJing on digital mediums such as CDJs and DJ controllers, dubplates continue to be used for playing exclusive music and have also gained a specialist market in recent years.\n\nAccording to David Toop, the \"dub\" in dubplate is an allusion to the dubplate's use in \"dubbing\" or \"doubling\" the original version of a track.\n\n"}
{"id": "2238991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238991", "title": "Decenija", "text": "Decenija\n\nDecenija (English: \"A Decade\") is the eleventh studio album by Serbian singer Ceca. It was released in 2001.\n"}
{"id": "2239002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239002", "title": "Gore od ljubavi", "text": "Gore od ljubavi\n\nGore od ljubavi (English: \"Worse Than Love\") is the twelfth studio album by Serbian singer Ceca. It was released on 24 May 2004.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239007", "title": "Jos Vaessen", "text": "Jos Vaessen\n\nJos Vaessen (born 21 March 1944) was president of the football team KRC Genk from 2001 until 2006 and founder of the company Vasco.\n"}
{"id": "2239010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239010", "title": "Ambala", "text": "Ambala\n\nAmbala (), \nis a city and a municipal corporation in Ambala district in the state of Haryana, India, located on the border with the Indian state of Punjab and in proximity to both states capital Chandigarh. Politically; Ambala has two sub-areas: Ambala Cantonment also known as (Ambala Cantt) and Ambala City, eight kilometres apart, therefore it is also known as \"Twin City\". It has a large Indian Army and Indian Air Force presence within its cantonment area. Ambala separates the Ganges river network from the Indus river network and is surrounded by two rivers – Ghaggar and Tangri – to the north and to the south. Due to its geographical location, the Ambala district plays an important role in local tourism, being located 47 km (28 miles) south of Chandigarh, 50 km (30 miles) north of Kurukshetra, 148 km (93 miles) southwest of Shimla, 198 km (121 miles) north of New Delhi and 260 km (155 miles) southeast of Amritsar.\n\nThe town is said to derive its name after the goddess \"Bhawani Amba\" whose Temple still exists in Ambala city. According to another version, it is named from Amba Rajput who supposedly founded it during the 14th century CE. The third version mentions that the name is a corruption of \"Amba Wala\" meaning \"the mango-village\", from mango groves which existed in its immediate neighbourhood.\n\nArchaeological Surveyor C.J Rodgers found Indo-Parthian Kingdom coins as well as coins of Hunas, Mihirakula and Toramana which indicated that after the disintegration of the Mauryan empire, the area was taken over by Indo-Parthians and later was incorporated in the domain of the Hunas.\n\nIn 1709, Battle of Ambala was fought and Sikhs captured Ambala from Mughals.\n\nAmbala Army Cantonment was established in 1843 after the British were forced to leave its Karnal Cantonment following the malaria epidemic of 1841–42 in as there were not any known effective means to control malaria epidemic in those days. The cantonment houses the '2 Corps', one of the three Strike Corps of the Indian Army.\n\nAmbala Air Force Base is one of the oldest and largest airbases that were inherited from the British by the IAF. It was from this airbase that Spitfires and Harvards flown by Instructors of the Advanced Flying Training School took part in the Indo-Pakistani War of 1947–1948. Subsequently, Ambala was the front line airfield for many years. It was home to various aircraft that were inducted into the Indian Air Force. Vampires, Ouragans, Hunters, etc. all flew from this base. The airbase was briefly attacked in 1965 by B-57 bombers of the Pakistan Air Force. Today, the Airbase houses the '7 Wing' with squadrons of Jaguars and MiG-21 Bisons. A unit of the French-made Dassault Rafale will also be based at Ambala airbase.\n\nAmbala Cantonment is location of historic European Cemetery.\n\nAmbala was given the status of a district in 1847, formed by the merging of the jagir estates of hitherto independent chieftains whose territories had lapsed or had been confiscated by the British Indian Government. In its 160 years of existence as a district, Ambala has witnessed many changes in its boundaries. Previously, it extended across tehsils of Ambala, Saphera, Jagadhri, Pipli, Kharar, Ropar and Nalagarh. Kalka-cum-Kurari State, Pinjore, Mani Majra, Kasauli & Sanawar were also merged later into the district at different times.\n\nFor their participation in first war of independence, the Chaudharys and Lambardars of villages who participated in rebellion were also deprived of their land and property, including 368 people of Hisar and Gurugram were hanged or transported for life, and fine was imposed on the people of Thanesar (Rs 235,000), Ambala (Rs. 253,541) and Rohtak (Rs. 63,000 mostly on Ranghars, Shaikhs and Muslim Kasai).\n\nIn November 1949 Mahatma Gandhi's assassin, Nathuram Godse was hanged at Ambala Central Jail along with Narayan Apte, a co-conspirator.\nAmbala Cantt is also mentioned in Kim (novel) by Rudyard Kipling.\n\n India census, Ambala UA had a population of 207,934 consisting of 112,840 males and 95,094 females, a ratio of 843. there were 20,687 children 0–6 and Ambala had an average literacy rate of 89.31%, with 91.76% of males and 86.41% of females literate.\n\nThe Cloth Market is considered to be the largest textile market in the region. It is located in sector 7, the central part of the city of Ambala. The market is known for catering to wedding related shopping. The most commonly bought items are sarees and silk clothing.\n\nAmbala has a large number of schools and colleges. Notable colleges include:-\n\nAmbala is connected to all of the other major cities of north India including Delhi, Panipat, Kaithal, Chandigarh, Ludhiana, Amritsar and Shimla. It is a big interchange for various commuters for all neighbouring states. The Ambala Cantt bus stand witnesses roughly 50,000 commuters daily.\n\nNational Highway NH 44 popularly known as GT road earlier known as NH 1 passes through Ambala and connects it to National capital Delhi, Panipat, Ludhiana and Amritsar. NH 152 connects it to state capital Chandigarh, Kaithal.\nApart from the Interstate service, Ambala also houses one of the oldest local bus services in Haryana, which is run by both Haryana roadways and private companies. Other means of local transportation include auto rickshaws and cycle rickshaws.\n\nBus service is the major means of public transport in this district. Ambala depot came into being on 1 August 1950. The office of the General Manager has situated on the premises of the depot workshop at Ambala City. Ambala depot has a sub depot at Naraingarh.\n\nPresently, Haryana Roadways, Ambala has 209 buses, which carry about 34.88 Lac's passengers daily and cover a distance of about 19.79 Lacs Km daily. Out of these, total distance covered on interstate routes is 24,711 km and 41,439 km are operated within Haryana every day. The total staff of the depot (including that of sub depot Naraingarh) is 1085.\n\nNew Bus Stand at Ambala Cantt was inaugurated on 12 July 1999 and the total land of bus stand is 6.7 acre. Bus stands in this district exist at Ambala City, Naraingarh and Barara as well. A sub-depot-level workshop has also been provided at Naraingarh. 'Yatri Niwas' exists on the campus of Ambala Cantt. bus stand for the convenience of the commuters who wish to stay for the night.\n\nBesides, the Haryana Roadways buses, the government has issued permits to private operators on local routes. Presently 51 such buses are plying in Ambala district.\nThe bus stand is very near to Ambala Cantt Jn. (Railway station). Most of the buses plying on GT road (NH1) stop in front of the Railway station.\n\nAmbala is a divisional headquarters of the Northern Railway Zone and is an important railway junction. Ambala Cantt station is among the top 100 booking stations in India. The city is served by three railway stations:\n\nThe Ambala Cantonment railway station was founded on the junction of the Delhi-Kalka and Ludhiana-Saharanpur lines. The historic Delhi-Panipat-Ambala-Kalka railway line dates back to 1889 while the Ludhiana-Saharanpur line was built in 1870. Situated 200  km north of Delhi, this town is well connected by the rail and road network.\n\nAmbala cantt railway station is main station of the city and is well connected with major cities of India like Delhi, Jammu, Chandigarh, Amritsar, Panipat, Lucknow, Kanpur Howrah, Patna, Mumbai, Jaipur, Ajmer, Surat, Chennai, Pune and many more.\nKalka-Shimla Railway which is UNESCO's World Heritage site also comes under Ambala division.\n\nAmbala Cantonment Railway Station serves maximum Shatabdi Express after New Delhi.\nAmbala railway station was mentioned in the famous story 'The Woman on Platform 8' by Ruskin Bond, although in reality, there is no platform no 8 in Ambala Cantt.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239011", "title": "Neapoli, Crete", "text": "Neapoli, Crete\n\nNeapoli (also Neapolis) is a small town and a former municipality in Lasithi, eastern Crete, Greece. Since the 2011 local government reform it is part of the municipality Agios Nikolaos, of which it is a municipal unit. The municipal unit has an area of . It is located west from Agios Nikolaos in the green valley of Mirabello.\nIn the period of the Venetian domination its two settlements were named \"New Village\". But when the seat of the Prefecture was transferred from Fourni to the “New Village” this was renamed to Neapolis. Neapolis was maintained as the capital of the prefecture of Lasithi till 1904. After that date Agios Nikolaos became the new capital. The surrounding area is mountainous and home to a collection of native olive trees. Neapoli is a traditional Cretan town with narrow streets and cobbled roads. The Cathedral of the Virgin Mary (Megali Panagia) is located on the central square.\n\nAnnually on the 15th of August there is a holy festival dedicated to the Virgin Mary. The main square hosts musicians, traditional dancers, and a market. There are also some sports events including a cycling race around the hills of Lasithi. When it gets dark there is a procession of torches up the mountainside.\n\nThere is a small museum of local history comprising mostly photographs and postcards of Neapolis.\n\nThe town is surrounded by olive trees. Olives and olive oil are a very important part of the local agricultural economy.\n\nThere are also many almond trees. A traditional local product of Neapoli is a drink, made from almonds, called \"soumada\". It is a very sweet almond-flavored, non-alcoholic, soft drink that can also be delicately flavored with flowers (providing variations of the aroma and the flavor).\n\nWhilst walking around the hills surrounding Neapoli, apart from the usual tortoises, hare, goats, and xylophagidae (known more commonly in Greece as Tzitzikia), one can occasionally see eagles, hummingbirds, and scorpions. The scorpions are usually hiding under rocks.\n\nAntipope Alexander V (also Peter of Candia or Peter Phillarges, ca. 1339 – May 3, 1410) was born in Neapoli. He reigned from June 26, 1409, to his death in 1410 and is officially regarded by the Roman Catholic Church as an antipope.\n"}
{"id": "2239013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239013", "title": "Helicopter height–velocity diagram", "text": "Helicopter height–velocity diagram\n\nThe FAA states \"The height–velocity diagram or H/V curve is a graph charting the safe/unsafe flight profiles relevant to a specific helicopter. As operation outside the safe area of the chart can be fatal in the event of a power or transmission failure it is sometimes referred to as the dead man's curve.\"\n\nThe H–V curve is a diagram indicating the combinations of height above ground and airspeed that should be avoided due to safety concerns relating to emergency landings. It is dangerous to operate within the shaded regions of the diagram, because it may be impossible for the pilot to complete an emergency autorotation from a starting point within these regions. The H–V curve also contains a take-off profile, indicating how a pilot can start from 0 height and 0 speed, and safely traverse to cruise. At low heights with low airspeed, such as a hover taxi, the pilot can simply cushion the landing with collective by converting rotational inertia into lift. Conversely, a complete power loss, and resultant crash landing, from a three-foot hover taxi at walking pace may be survivable. Multi-engine helicopters capable of flying and hovering on a single engine, don't depict this second region.\n\nAs the airspeed increases without an increase in height, there comes a point where the pilot's reaction time would be insufficient to initiate a flare, and prevent a high-speed ground impact. Each increase in height increases the pilot reaction time. This is the reason the bottom right part of the H–V curve has a shallow gradient. If above ideal autorotation speed, a pilot can avoid the deadman's curve by flaring, converting airspeed into height, and increasing rotor RPM through coning.\n\nLikewise, an increase in height without a corresponding increase in airspeed is dangerous, as a crash from this height may not be survivable. Airspeed has to increase beyond the 40-80 knot range, allowing the safe initiation of an autorotation. Thus a safe take-off profile, initiating forward flight from a low hover, involves gaining height as airspeed approaches a safe autorotation speed.\n\n\n3. http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/669481.pdf\n\n"}
{"id": "2239024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239024", "title": "London MIX", "text": "London MIX\n\nLondon MIX is an album by Ceca consisting of remixes of songs from her previous albums.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239039", "title": "Xtreme Pro Wrestling", "text": "Xtreme Pro Wrestling\n\nXtreme Pro Wrestling (XPW) was an American independent professional wrestling promotion in Los Angeles owned by Rob Zicari. Zicari appeared on shows as the on-camera owner under the name Rob Black alongside his wife Lizzy Borden. The promotion focused on hardcore wrestling, and under Zicari, it had connections to the Los Angeles porn industry as real life owner of \"Extreme Associates.\" From 2000 to 2002, XPW held an annual deathmatch tournament called \"Baptized in Blood\".\n\nIn 2002, Shane Douglas returned to XPW, and the \"All-New XPW\" was relocated in Pennsylvania. Thanks to promotional efforts on the part of Shane Douglas and Cody Michaels, the East Coast invasion featured XPW garnering some success in cities like Philadelphia and Pittsburgh.\n\nBig Vision Entertainment held two XPW reunion shows, \"Cold Day In Hell\" in May 2008 and \"XPW X\" in August 2009.\n\nXPW was founded in the summer of 1999 on the West Coast, particularly Los Angeles, California. The promotion based its style around hardcore wrestling, featuring many very violent matches. In addition, XPW kept a huge focus on the soap opera aspect of wrestling, as the storylines involved porn stars, alternative lifestyles, profanity, and sadistic violence. The first show was on July 31, 1999. The announce team for XPW consisted of Kris Kloss and Larry Rivera, with Kloss doing the play-by-play and Rivera taking on the role as a heel color commentator. Kloss's trademark was screaming expletives or shrieking a high pitched scream when something shocking occurred in a match, typically ruining the effect of the high spot. Rivera often sided with Rob Black, and his trademark announcing consisted of referring to Kloss as \"chico\", using \"chico\" in nearly all of his sentences, and occasional wandering into Spanish announcing. In this period, the promotion's main stars were homegrown wrestlers, but many former stars of Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW) passed through XPW following the fall of that promotion.\n\nIn 2000, Rob Black purchased six front row tickets for ECW's Heat Wave pay-per-view in 2000. The tickets for the show were given to a cadre of XPW talent, as their mission was to make it clear that ECW was on enemy turf. At the beginning of the main event, the XPW contingent (The Messiah, Kid Kaos, Supreme, Kristi Myst, Homeless Jimmy and Kris Kloss) donned shirts emblazoned with the logo of their home company, gaining the attention of security and Tommy Dreamer. Security ejected the XPW group. A brawl in the parking lot then broke out between the XPW ring crew and the ECW locker room, but the XPW wrestlers were not involved. In the parking lot, several of the ECW wrestlers brutalized the XPW ring crew in a street fight until several of the ring crew members were left bloodied. Initial reports claimed that Kristi Myst somehow touched Francine and that prompted the incident, but Francine herself has since gone on record as saying that she was never grabbed or in any other way touched by any of the XPW crew, and other eyewitnesses support the story that Francine never had a hand laid on her. Although fans did throw up the XPW arm signature, XPW was not officially acknowledged on the telecast. On screen Joey Styles, ECW's color commentator, stated during the incident \"apparently The Sandman has shared a few too many beers with the fans at ringside\" and \"apparently a drunken fan at ringside put his hands on Francine.\" Also you can see Francine angry on camera due to being touched by XPW member, even though years later it was revealed that none of the XPW crew touched Francine.\n\nShortly after the ECW Incident, XPW would have their one-year anniversary show \"Go Funk Yourself\" at the Los Angeles Sports Arena on July 22, 2000. The main event being XPW World Heavyweight Champion Sabu facing off against Terry Funk. The event was considered by many a high point for XPW. Unfortunately, it would be four more months until XPW would put on another show. During that time period, an attempt to bring in Japanese Deathmatch Pioneer Atsushi Onita for an exploding ring match failed.\n\nOne of the main storylines for most of 2001 concerned heel stable called the \"Black Army\". The Black Army was run by Rob Black, assisted by his wife (porn star Lizzy Borden), with their top star The Messiah and his feud with Sabu. Also, throughout most of 2001, another heel stable called the \"Enterprise\" emerged to eventually feud with the \"Black Army\" the following year. Originally consisting of former \"Black Army\" henchmen Steve Rizzono, Motivational Speaker TJ Rush, porn star Veronica Caine and GQ Money, the stable was completed at the Damage Inc. show when Kid Kaos won the brand new XPW Television Title, turned his back on his uncle, Supreme, and aligned himself with the Enterprise. After this surprise heel turn, Kid Kaos dropped the \"Kid\" from his name and nicknamed himself \"The Rock Superstar\" Kaos.\n\nFor a year, April 2001 to April 2002, XPW would run shows at the legendary Los Angeles venue Grand Olympic Auditorium. Such notable events were their two-year anniversary show \"Damage Inc.\", a double ringed War Games style cage match \"Genocide\", and the infamous 40 foot scaffold match between Vic Grimes and New Jack at \"Free Fall\". Also many big names debuted in XPW at the time, such as The Sandman, Vampiro, Konnan, Insane Clown Posse, and Psicosis.\n\nAt XPW's three year anniversary show, \"Night of Champions\" in July 2002, Shane Douglas made his return to XPW as the mystery opponent of Johnny Webb, winning the XPW title. Following the match, the revelation that Douglas and Lizzy Borden were allies emerged, which would crush Rob Black to the point that Borden inherited the power of XPW. The organization then based its operations to the East Coast in Philadelphia, PA at the New Alhambra Arena. The event also saw the Third King of the Deathmatch Tournament, which got released on home video as Baptized In Blood III.\n\nXPW debuted at the former ECW Arena on August 31, 2002, at the \"Hostile Takeover\" event, and Shane Douglas was the promotion's focal point for the rest of the year. Controversy arose when XPW signed an exclusive lease with the New Alhambra Arena, preventing other independent promotions from holding shows at the venue. As XPW continued to run on the East Coast, the risque storylines were quickly phased out, and a majority of XPW's West Coast employees were not a part of the \"All-New XPW.\" The relocation to the East Coast also resulted in many former ECW stars passing through XPW, whether it be on a regular basis or one-night appearances.\n\nThey would eventually return to their home of Los Angeles for a few shows in early 2003. On March 8, 2003, they did a show in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, which had 1,500 in attendance, mainly due to Pittsburgh being Shane Douglas's hometown. This would be XPW's very last show. There were scheduled shows in April 2003 on The East Coast. Supposedly tickets were selling very poorly prior to the event, then XPW announced they were canceling the event due to a storm that was not as big as XPW boasted to be on their website.\n\nIn April 2003, Rob Black and Lizzy Borden were indicted on obscenity charges due to pornographic material produced by XPW's parent company, Extreme Associates. Federal agents in Pittsburgh had purchased the offending material, which depicted scenes of rape, urination, and murder. The stress of the trial took a toll on the owners of the company, and XPW could no longer be subsidized financially. In January 2005, the charges were dropped but on December 8, 2005, an appeals court revived the charges (See United States v. Extreme Associates). Xtreme Entertainment Group (which later split into XEG and Big Vision Entertainment, the company of which XPW employee Kevin Kleinrock would later become Executive Vice President) purchased the XPW name and video library in 2004. Black stated \"If I never got indicted I would have definitely kept the wrestling thing going.\"\n\nThe only XPW pay-per-view was \"The Best of XPW\", a compilation of highlights which aired in the Summer of 2003.\n\nAn XPW reunion show called \"Cold Day in Hell\" took place on May 24, 2008, at Aviation Park in Redondo Beach, California. The event was originally going to be called Hell Freezes Over, before changing it to Cold Day in Hell.\n\nIn June 2007, the XPW rights owners, Big Vision Entertainment, worked on Wrestling Society X which featured many XPW alumni. While working on the project they came up with the idea to create a reunion show. The event was produced by Kevin Kleinrock, Mike Hartsfield and Kris Kloss. Vic Grimes was originally scheduled to be part of the event, however he later needed to drop out due to injury.\n\nBig Vision Entertainment released it on DVD and Blu-ray in January 2009. The DVD includes the entire main event and a 45-minute pre-show.\n\nThe show started with the first ever \"Dynamite D Tribute Battle Royal\". Carnage eventually lit the tape on his hand on fire and eliminated the final remaining competitors with a flaming clothesline. Carnage, after receiving the D Cup, gave it to Dynamite D's mother.\n\nPrior to the second match, XPW hosted the Miss Extreme Competition, hosted by Joey Ryan. Women were competing based on skills like lap dances and beer chugging. When women began getting spanked with a barbed wire glove, Nicky, \"The New York Knockout\", beat up the other contestants. No official winner was declared.\n\nKaos and Vampiro wrestled next, which included Kaos being bodyslammed onto a fluorescent light tube. Kaos ultimately won the match, with both wrestlers backs cut and bleeding from the glass.\n\nPrior to Angel, \"The Hardcore Homo\"'s match, he was presented with a birthday cake and presents for his 19th birthday. GQ Money was hiding among the gifts who attacked Angel with the help of Bo Cooper. Angel performmed the Bronco Buster with his assless tights and then poured a bag of condoms and sex toys out. Money shot a fireball at Angel pick up the victory. Following the match, Pratt came out to help Angel.\n\nFollowing the Angel/Money match, J. Love forced Leroy the Ring Crew Guy to clean up the remaining glass from the Kaos/Vampiro match. Pogo the Clown came out with a shovel and beat up both Leroy and J. Love, before being stopped by The Sandman and a Singapore cane. Sandman eventually picked up the victory after J. Love hit Pogo with a kendo stick, which distracted him enough to allow for Sandman to gain control.\n\nTerry Funk, the special referee for the \"White Trash\" Johnny Webb & Raven vs. Homeless Jimmy & Concussion, announced that Sabu, who was originally in the match could not compete due to a broken a vertebra in his neck. Sabu however came to the ring during the match and although was removed by security distracted Funk enough that Funk got knocked out. Raven and Webb ultimately picked up the victory after Webb gave Jimmy a DDT on top of a chair.\n\nThe Team Rev Pro vs Team XPW match was scheduled to be Team Rev Pro (Ron Rivera, Disco Machine and Joey Ryan) (with Mr. McPhenom and CW Anderson) vs. Team XPW (Jardi Frantz, Vinnie Massaro and a mystery partner). Just prior to the match, X-Pac was revealed to be the mystery partner. Team XPW ultimately lost the when Disco pinning Franz. Following the match X Pac hit the Bronco Buster on both Mr. McPhenom and Anderson.\n\nThe follow 3-way match featured Luke Hawx vs. Jack Evans vs. Scorpio Sky. Hawx ultimately picked up with victory by submission with a front face lock on Scorpio.\n\nIn the first of two main event matches, The Gangstas (New Jack & Mustafa) were scheduled to take on The Westside NGZ (Chronic & B.G. Rott). B.C. Killer and Mr. California came out instead of The Gangstas, and began beating up The Westside NGZ. The Gangstas eventually came out with tons of weapons and scored a victory over The Westside NGZ. Following the match, New Jack announced that this would be his retirement match.\n\nThe final match of the meeting featured Necro Butcher (with J.R. Benson) facing Supreme for the return of the XPW King of the Deathmatch Championship. Supreme ultimately won the match and the championship after delivering back body drop to Butcher on to a fluorescent light tube.\n\nA second XPW reunion show called \"Ten Year Anniversary Spectacular!\" nicknamed \"XPW X\" took place on August 22, 2009, in Los Angeles, at the Arena Night Club. The event took place on the same weekend as SummerSlam took place in LA. The main event featured a XPW King of the Deathmatch Championship match in which Supreme beat Angel.\n\nDuring the pre-show, Joey Dynamite, Ray Rosas & Oso Loco beat Clay Motley, The Rookie 88, & Lucha Machine. Then in a 6-way match Marcus Riot beat Damien Arsenick, Willie Mac, LTP, Famous B, and Chimera. Then The Stepfather and The Red-Headed Stepchild called out Sexy Chino, who was sitting ringside, before beating him up in the ring Tool ran down to make the save.\n\nDamien Steele, at the beginning of the show, was announced as the organization's new commissioner. When Steele entered the ring, accompanied by Nikki Jameson and Baby Slim (carrying the old XPW championship). Steele announced a tournament to crown the next champion. While Steele was announcing the matches Homeless Jimmy came down demanding a match in the tournament. Baby Slim attacked Jimmy from behind, however Jimmy ultimately won the match, by hitting a schoolboy out of the corner, and advancing in the tournament.\n\nDuring the eight-person mixed tag match Team XPW (Matt Classic, White Trash Johhny Webb, Cast Iron Cothern and The Fabulous Thunderkitty) taking on Team SPW (Sacramento based promotion Supreme Pro Wrestling) (Dante, \"The British Messiah\" Timothy Thatcher, El Chupacabra, Dante and Christina von Eerie). Team SPW won following Dante's 450 frog splash.\n\nMr. McPhenom, (a character based on Vince McMahon) announced his plans to takeover XPW. McPhenom stated he would make XPW to more family friendly and sports-entertainment based. GQ Money was introduced as the financial-adviser to Mr. McPhenom. McPhenom told Money to bring the green, however when McPhenom realized what Money brought wasn't money but marijuana, McPhenom attacked Monday and set up a match for that in the evening. The match occurred after the iron man match, in which Money won.\n\nJoey Ryan and Lizzy \"J Love\" Valentine against Monica and Vinnie Massaro met next in a 10-minute \"strip iron man match\" where the wrestler pinned had to remove an article of clothing. Each wrestler was pinned once, then Valentine was pinned two more times. Valentine refused to remove her top and instead brought out a body double, how removed her bra to reveal both breasts covered with a black x.\n\nScorpio Sky and \"M-Dogg 20\" Matt Cross match ended abruptly and it was announced as a time limit draw.\n\nLuke Hawx next challenged Cross (half of the final XPW World Tag Team Championship) and Sky to a tag title match. After Sky and Cross accepted, Hawx revealed his partner to be Sky was really his partner, however after double-teaming Cross, Tool entered as Cross' new partner. Cross tapped to a guillotine choke and Hawx and Sky were declared the new XPW World Tag Team Championship.\n\nLeroy the Ring Crew Guy was then beaten by Pogo The Clown.\n\nCarnage and Youth Suicide (accompanied by Vic Grimes) then fought in a \"Burned in Hell Grudge Match\" (aka a death match). Weapons were used such as a barbed-wire bat, light bulbs, a shower door, and a staple gun. Grimes eventually lit pizza cutter on fire, and using it to attack Carnage. Carnage eventually won after throwing lit flash paper at Youth Suicide.\n\nSupreme then defended the XPW King of the Deathmatch Championship, against Angel the Hardcore Homo. Supreme dedicated the match to his father, who had died earlier that week. Angel (with Kraq and BFF Amanda), announced he would give up the \"Hardcore Homo\" if he didn't win. Despite the majority of the match turning into a 3-on-1 attack, with included barb wire covered tables, Supreme won the match to retain the title.\n\n\nOn August 20, 2011, XPW did a joint show with Perros del Mal in Tultitlan, Mexico. The event took place at Central de Refacciones, a local junk yard.\n\nDuring the show, Lolita beat Sexy Star in a stripping match. Each fall the loser must remove an article of clothing. Lolita won 2 falls to 1, and at the end Sexy Star lost her top, although she tried to cover herself up.\n\nDuring the final match of the evening Damián 666, Bestia 666, Halloween, & X-Fly beat Carnage, Johnny Webb, Kaos, & Supreme. Damián got the pinfall after powerbombing Supreme onto light tubes. After the match, Damián stated that Supreme had not defended the XPW King of the Deathmatch Championship. Damián stated he was ready to retire, however he wanted one last match against Supreme, in an electrified cage match for the championship, and would then retire.\n\nFrom 2001 until 2003, XPW ran a locally televised TV show. The show original aired in Los Angeles but later switched to Philadelphia, with the companies move.\n\nToward the end of 2002, Kris Kloss was dropped from the announcing booth and replaced with former ECW commentator Joey Styles. Styles, however, left the company, about one month later, in December 2002.\n\nAs of 2009, the first three seasons of XPW's weekly television series have been released on DVD by Big Vision Entertainment. XPW matches have also been extras on several other Big Vision wrestling DVDs, including Forever Hardcore and the Hardcore Homecoming series. Several XPW alumni worked for Wrestling Society X, which was produced by Big Vision Entertainment.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239042", "title": "Christer Basma", "text": "Christer Basma\n\nChrister Basma (born 1 August 1972) is a Norwegian former footballer who played as a defender. He played 16 consecutive seasons Tippeligaen, for Kongsvinger, Stabæk and Rosenborg. With 350 top division appearances, Basma has made the eighth-highest number of appearances in Eliteserien. Basma was capped 40 times for Norway. He has later worked as assistant coach of Ranheim. \n\nBasma started his career with little Røyken og Spikkestad and then played for Bærum but his breakthrough came at Kongsvinger. He moved on to Stabæk, before he finally went to Rosenborg in 1998. With the Trondheim club he won Tippeligaen eight times and he featured in 40 Champions League games. His last game for Rosenborg BK on 27 January 2008 in the 4-0 loss against Valencia in the 2007–08 UEFA Cup, before his retired in January 2009.\n\nAfter 16 consecutive season in Tippeligaen and 350 matches, Basma is the player with the fourth most matches in the Norwegian top-flight, only surpassed by Roar Strand, Daniel Berg Hestad and Morten Berre.\n\nIn 2010, while coaching Ranheim, he appeared on the field as defender, first in the Norwegian Cup against Kristiansund BK, and also in the First Division against Mjøndalen and Sandnes Ulf.\n\nBasma played for the amateur side Mosvik IL in the 6. Divisjon in 2013, where he was teammate with the Cross-country skier Petter Northug.\n\nBasma made his debut for Norway in a November 1995 friendly match against Trinidad and Tobago and earned a total of 40 caps, scoring no goals. His last international match was a January 2005 friendly match against Bahrain.\n\nDuring the 2010 season he was assistant coach of Ranheim in the First Division, in a coaching team including Per Joar Hansen and Otto Ulseth.\n\nRosenborg\n\n"}
{"id": "2239058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239058", "title": "George Weiss (producer)", "text": "George Weiss (producer)\n\nGeorge G. Weiss was an American film producer who specialized in independent 'road show' exploitation Z movies during the 1950s and sexploitation shockers in the 1960s that openly defied the motion picture production code of the day.\n\nWeiss is best known as the producer who funded the exploitation film \"Glen or Glenda\" (1953) directed by Ed Wood, originally conceived as a fictionalized story of the sexual reassignment surgery of Christine Jorgensen. When Jorgensen refused to collaborate on the film, Wood wrote a new autobiographical script about his own struggle with being a closet transvestite and added stock film footage about sexual reassignment surgery. Weiss appears in the film in an uncredited cameo as \"man at transvestite's suicide.\" Adding to the film's already extensive fantasy sequence, Weiss included incongruous scenes of scantily-clad women, bondage, and whipping taken from another project inspired by the fetish films of Irving Klaw. This was done partly to increase the film's length up to the required 70 minutes. \n\nIn 1956, Weiss backed another Wood project, a juvenile delinquent film with the working title \"Hellborn\". The project was soon abandoned. Wood later incorporated the footage into his films \"The Sinister Urge\" and \"Night of the Ghouls\". \n\nAnother connection between Weiss and Ed Wood is actor Timothy Farrell, the sympathetic doctor in \"Glen or Glenda\". Farrell had a major role as a gangster in Wood's \"Jail Bait\", and a supporting part in \"The Violent Years\".\n\nFor Weiss, Farrell also played doctors in \"Hometown Girl\" (1949) and \"Test Tube Babies\" (1948), an exploitation film about artificial insemination. In 1951 he was in the risque burlesque film \"Paris After Midnight\" with famous stripper Tempest Storm.\n\nHe played Umberto Scalli, a sleazy gymnasium owner and drug pusher in three films: \"The Devil's Sleep\" (1949), \"Racket Girls\" (aka \"Pin Down Girls\" (1951)) and \"Dance Hall Racket\" (1954) with iconoclastic comedian Lenny Bruce in his only film role. These films were largely an excuse for showcasing \"cat fight\" female-wrestling footage.\n\nIn \"Girl Gang\" (1954), Farrell plays another degenerate drug dealer in a film noteworthy for showing the step-by-step process of preparing and injecting heroin. (Weiss did not shy away from taboo subjects in any of his films.)\n\nAs did Ed Wood, Weiss also cobbled together footage from other sources and created a flimsy plot as a framing device. From his collection of erotic burlesque films he released \"Hollywood After Midnight\", \"Baghdad After Midnight\" (both 1954) and \"The Peek Snatchers\" (1965), among others.\n\n\"Nudist Life\" (1961) was mostly put together from assorted nudist camp films from the previous two decades.\n\nWeiss even stole from himself, as in \"The Pill\" (1967), which he also directed. The bulk of the film is recycled from \"Test Tube Babies\" dressed up as a clinical study on birth control.\n\nMany of Weiss' films are presented in a pseudo-documentary style accompanied by earnest voice-over narration (pretending to be an educational film was a way to circumvent censorship laws). \"Chained Girls\" (1965) is an example of this practice.\n\nBesides \"Glen or Glenda\", Weiss may be best remembered for producing some of the first \"roughie\" sexploitation films of the 1960s with his \"Olga\" series. Directed by Joseph P. Mawra and starring Audrey Campbell as the sadistic white slaver Olga, Weiss unleashed \"Olga's House of Shame\" (which he also co-wrote), \"White Slaves of Chinatown\", \"Olga's Girls\" (all from 1964), \"Mme. Olga's Massage Parlor\" (1965) and \"Olga's Dance Hall Girls\" (1969). Weiss has a brief role as a doctor in \"White Slaves of Chinatown\". Although tame by today's standards, the series was shocking and unique in its day. Underground filmmaker John Waters cites \"Olga's House of Shame\" as a major early influence.\n\nWeiss was friendly with New York filmmaker Michael Findlay and his wife Roberta Findlay, an actress and cinemaphotographer. In 1964 Weiss encouraged them to follow in the trail blazed by the \"Olga\" films. The Findlays went on to make a series of even more extreme sexploitation films, including \"The Touch of Her Flesh\" and its two sequels.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239063", "title": "Cotteridge", "text": "Cotteridge\n\nCotteridge is an area of Birmingham, England and part of the Bournville ward. It is about miles south of Birmingham city centre. It has a shopping centre with a mixture of local shops, eateries and national brands.\n\nThe Cotteridge Church is a Church of England, Methodist and United Reformed Church. local ecumenical partnership. Its building on Pershore Road was originally the Methodist church. The building was enlarged when the Church of England and URC churches were demolished to make way for a supermarket and the three congregations were merged.\n\nThe Church of England parish church was St Agnes', which began in 1898 with a mission room when it was licensed as a mission of St Nicolas', Kings Norton. A new Gothic Revival church was built in 1902 and consecrated in 1903.\n\nThe benefice of St Agnes was in the gift of the Vicar of Kings Norton until 1916, when part of St Nicolas' parish was detached to form a separate parish of St Agnes. In 1937 part of St Agnes' parish was detached to form the parish of Holy Cross, Billesley.\n\nCotteridge County Primary School was opened in 1900 by the Kings Norton Schools Board as a mixed infants school with a student capacity of 615. In 1911 a new infants department was opened with accommodation for 400 pupils.\n\nIn 1931 the school was reorganised to form a junior and infants department and a senior girls department. The senior girls department split from the school in 1945 to form Cotteridge Girls' County Modern School which had 160 pupils by 1961. In the same year Cotteridge County Junior and Infant School had eight classrooms and two halls.\n\nThe A441 Pershore Road, one of Birmingham's main radial roads, passes through the centre of Cotteridge, giving a direct road link to places such as Redditch. Kings Norton railway station serves Cotteridge. It on the Cross-City Line, a major commuter route in and out of Birmingham. Many buses serve Cotteridge daily, including routes 11A, 11C, 18, 19, 38, 45, 47, 48, 49 and 146.\n\nThe local park is Cotteridge Park.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239064", "title": "David Sassoon", "text": "David Sassoon\n\nDavid Sassoon (October 1792 – November 7, 1864) was the treasurer of Baghdad between 1817 and 1829. He became the leader of the Jewish community in Bombay (now Mumbai) after Baghdadi Jews emigrated there.\n\nSassoon was born in Baghdad, where his father, Saleh Sassoon (1750-1830), was a wealthy businessman, chief treasurer to the pashas (the governors of Baghdad) from 1781 to 1817, and president (\"Nasi\") of the city's Jewish community.\n\nThe family were Iraqi Jews. His mother was Amam Gabbai. After a traditional education in the Hebrew language, Sassoon married Hannah Joseph in 1818. They had two sons and two daughters before she died in 1826. Two years later he married Farha Hyeem (who was born in 1812 and died in 1886). The pair had six sons and three daughters.\n\nFollowing increasing persecution of Baghdad's Jews by Dawud Pasha, the family moved to Bombay via Persia. Sassoon was in business in Bombay no later than 1832, originally acting as a middleman between British textile firms and Gulf commodity merchants, subsequently investing in valuable harbour properties. His major competitors were Parsis, whose profits were built on their domination of the Sino-Indian opium trade since the 1820s.\n\nWhen the Treaty of Nanking opened up China to British traders, Sassoon developed his textile operations into a profitable triangular trade: Indian yarn and opium were carried to China, where he bought goods which were sold in Britain, from where he obtained Lancashire cotton products. He sent his son Elias David Sassoon to Canton, where he was the first Jewish trader (with 24 Parsi rivals). In 1845, David Sassoon & Co. opened an office in what would soon become Shanghai's British concession, and it became the firm's second hub of operations.\n\nIn 1844, he set up a branch in Hong Kong, and a year later, he set up his Shanghai branch on The Bund to cash in on the opium trade.\n\nIt was not until the 1860s that the Sassoons were able to lead the Baghdadi Jewish community in overtaking Parsi dominance. A particular opportunity was given by the American Civil War, during which turmoil American cotton exports from the South declined. Lancashire factories replaced American cotton imports with Sassoon's Indian cotton.\n\nAlong with Parsi businessmen such as Sir Jamsetjee Jejeebhoy, David Sassoon continued the trade with China and from the wealth earned there he started his own business of oil. His first mill was named E.D. Sassoon Mills and he became exceedingly prosperous. Later the Sassoons were the largest mill owners and were known as Badshah of the business community of Bombay. Overall there were 17 mills, employing in total some 15,000 to 20,000 slaves and workers. Later, David Sassoon also entered the cotton, fabrics and various other industries on a large scale.\n\nDavid Sassoon, as an Orthodox Jew, continued his Jewish religious observances, observing the Jewish Sabbath throughout his busy life. He was also a member of the Legislative Assembly of the time. He built one of the largest and most beautiful synagogues of India, the Magen David synagogue at Byculla, Bombay. He also built the Ohel David Synagogue of Pune. Today these are well known tourist attractions and form an important part of the cultural heritage of India. Various charity trusts, which continue in existence today, were funded from his private income and named after him and other members of his family. David Sassoon funded monuments and educational institutions in Mumbai. By his enterprise Sassoon Docks at Colaba in the city were built.\n\nHe soon came to live with his family at a palatial home he reconfigured and named \"Byculla's Bungalow\", the former palace of Shin Sangoo. This was later donated to the Parsi Trust and is today's Masina Hospital. Nearby Rani Bagh (Jijamata Udyann) was also his property and was donated to the Mumbai Municipal Corporation for the construction of the Albert Museum, designed by the most prominent architect of the time. The interior is exactly like the Magen David synagogue and the Ohel David Synagogue of Pune. It has a tall clock tower, the Victoria clock tower.\n\nAlthough David Sassoon did not speak English, he became a naturalised British citizen in 1853. He kept the dress and manners of the Baghdadi Jews, but allowed his sons to adopt English manners. His son, Abdullah changed his name to Albert, moved to England, became a Baronet and married into the Rothschild family. All the Sassoons of Europe are said to be descendants of David Sassoon. He built a synagogue in the Fort (area) and another in Byculla, as well as a school, a Mechanics' Institute, a library and a convalescent home in Pune. David Sassoon was conscious of his role as a leader of the Jewish community in Mumbai. He helped to arouse a sense of Jewish identity among the Bene Israeli and Cochin Jewish communities. The Sassoon Docks (built by his son) and the David Sassoon Library are named after him. For more information about his legacy and relations with the local Bene Israel community see Dr. Shalva Weil's article.\n\nDavid Sassoon died in his country house in Pune in 1864. His business interests were inherited by his son Sir Albert Sassoon; Elias David had established a rival firm. His grandson David Solomon Sassoon was a renowned bibliophile. \n\nSome of the prominent Buildings built by David Sasoon and his family are:\n\nThey have contributed to the construction of:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239067", "title": "Juan Bautista Garcia", "text": "Juan Bautista Garcia\n\nJuan Bautista Garcia (1904 – May 31, 1974), born Jean Baptiste Romanacce, was a Corsican immigrant to Puerto Rico whose life and family became the inspiration for one of Puerto Rico's most successful television shows in history, \"Los Garcia\".\n\nJuan Bautista Garcia's father died before he immigrated to Puerto Rico in 1906, at the age of two. Garcia and the rest of his family settled in the southern city of Guayama.\n\nHis mother died when Garcia was only eight years old, and Garcia had to begin working to earn a living. His parents were very rich; Garcia as a child could not manage the family's fortune and thus he actually became a homeless person for some time. At the age of thirteen, he got on a vehicle driven by bulls, and arrived in San Juan.\n\nGarcia became a YMCA resident in San Juan. At the YMCA, he learned various skills, such as plumbing, painting and other jobs. Garcia became a noted artist in Puerto Rico's capital, although he never gained national or international fame with his paintings.\n\nJuan Bautista Garcia married Josefina Santiago, with whom he had several children. Soon, he met television and radio producer Tomas Muniz, one of the most well known producers in Puerto Rico then. During the 1940s, Garcia travelled across the island with Mr. Muniz, helping him with the production of concerts, plays, and other events. Sometimes Garcia would help Muniz for free, other times for such goods as animals, and, less often, for money. Eventually, the money he did earn allowed him to buy a residence for him and his family at the Valencia urbanization in Rio Piedras, a large San Juan suburb. Tomas Muniz's sisters became his neighbors at Valencia, and Garcia met Mr. Muniz's son, Tommy Muniz, who also gained a lot of appreciation towards Garcia.\n\nOne fact that got Tommy Muniz's attention was that the Garcia's had weekly meetings, held on Sundays, and that sometimes as many as thirty family members would reunite. Rafo Muniz, Tommy Muniz's son, befriended Godofredo Garcia, whose character he would go on to play at the series.\n\nTowards his later years, Garcia was hired by a college in San Juan to paint a mural on its interior. Since Tommy Muniz's children as well as those of Tomas Muniz's adoptive sisters attended that school, Tommy Muniz saw the paintings and he became inspired by them.\n\nAs a consequence, the television series, \"Los Garcia\" was conceptuated by Muniz and later on, shown on television since 1975, shortly after Juan Bautista Garcia had died. Tommy Muniz played \"Juan Bautista Garcia\" in the series.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239078", "title": "Puławy County", "text": "Puławy County\n\nPuławy County () is a unit of territorial administration and local government (powiat) in Lublin Voivodeship, eastern Poland. It was established on January 1, 1999, as a result of the Polish local government reforms passed in 1998. Its administrative seat and largest town is Puławy, which lies north-west of the regional capital Lublin. The county also contains the towns of Nałęczów, lying south-east of Puławy, and Kazimierz Dolny, south of Puławy.\n\nThe county covers an area of . In 2006, its total population was 116,829, including 49,839 in Puławy, 4,243 in Nałęczów, 3,572 in Kazimierz Dolny and a rural population of 59,175.\n\nPuławy County is bordered by Ryki County to the north, Lubartów County and Lublin County to the east, Opole Lubelskie County to the south, Zwoleń County to the west, and Kozienice County to the north-west.\n\nThe county is subdivided into 11 gminas (one urban, two urban-rural and eight rural). These are listed in the following table, in descending order of population.\n"}
{"id": "2239082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239082", "title": "Eleanor Clymer", "text": "Eleanor Clymer\n\nEleanor Clymer (née Lowenton; January 7, 1906 – March 31, 2001), was a writer of children's books, best known for \"The Trolley Car Family\" (1947). She graduated from the University of Wisconsin–Madison in 1928 with a degree in English. Between the years of 1943 and 1983 she published 58 books, including \"The Tiny Little House\", \"My Brother Stevie\", and \"Hamburgers–and Ice Cream for Dessert\".\n\nClymer was born in New York City, the daughter of Russian immigrants. Through much of her life she was a resident of Katonah, New York and an active member of the nearby Unitarian Universalist fellowship. In 1980 she was awarded the Rip Van Winkle award by the School Library Media Specialists of Southeastern New York for outstanding contributions to children's literature.\n\nHer son, Adam Clymer, was a journalist with \"The New York Times\". Clymer died in 2001 at the age of 95 in Haverford, Pennsylvania.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239084", "title": "Prince Dimitri of Yugoslavia", "text": "Prince Dimitri of Yugoslavia\n\nPrince Dimitri of Yugoslavia (born 18 June 1958), also known as Dimitri Karageorgevich or Dimitrije Karađorđević, is the founder, president, and creative director of the jewelry firm bearing his name, Prince Dimitri Company. He was formerly senior vice president of the jewelry department of the Sotheby's auction house. He was named to the International Best Dressed List's Hall of Fame in 1994.\n\nBorn in Boulogne-Billancourt, France, \nPrince Dimitri was raised in Versailles, attending boarding schools in France and Switzerland. He graduated from the University of Paris with a degree in business law and moved to New York City in 1983.\n\nOriginally pursuing a career on Wall Street, he decided to move into the field of jewelry and was offered a position in Sotheby's jewelry department, eventually rising to senior vice president. During his fifteen years with Sotheby's, he also became an appraiser and studied gemology. Prince Dimitri began designing jewelry in 1999, with a collection of gemstone cufflinks that was sold at Bergdorf Goodman and Saks Fifth Avenue. He also designed a line of women's jewelry for Barneys New York and Neiman Marcus. In 2002, he moved to the Phillips de Pury & Luxembourg auction house to head their jewelry department. In 2007, he and business partner Todd Morley founded the Prince Dimitri Company, which opened a salon in Manhattan. His jewelry has also been sold at auction by Christie's.\n\nPrince Dimitri and Prince Michael of Yugoslavia are the first set of twins born to Prince Alexander of Yugoslavia and his first wife, Princess Maria Pia of Savoy, the eldest daughter of Umberto II of Italy in 1958. Maria Pia had a second set of twins, Prince Sergius and Princess Helene of Yugoslavia in 1963. they have a younger half-brother, Prince Dushan of Yugoslavia, from their father's second marriage to Princess Barbara of Liechtenstein.\n\nPrince Dimitri belongs to the cadet branch of the Royal House of Yugoslavia, descending from Prince Regent-Prince Paul of Yugoslavia. He is a third cousin of Alexander, Crown Prince of Yugoslavia.\n\nHis maternal grandmother was Princess Marie José of Belgium, whose father was Albert I, King of the Belgians. His paternal grandmother was Princess Olga of Greece and Denmark (sister of Princess Marina, Duchess of Kent). His paternal great-grandfather was Prince Nicholas of Greece and Denmark, an avid oil painter and son of George I (1845–1913), King of the Hellenes. His paternal great-great grandfather was the Grand Duke Vladimir of Russia, patron of the avant-garde, who spurred the creation of the Ballets Russes. From here, Prince Dimitri’s lineage of creativity can be followed, as can his curiosity and love for fine gems and jewelry. It was his paternal grandmother who related firsthand the magnificence of the jewelry collection of her mother and grandmothers. His great-grandmother Grand Duchess Elena Vladimirovna of Russia had inherited all of the diamonds belonging to her mother, Grand Duchess Maria Pavlovna of Russia, a collection renowned the world over for its lavish, exquisite breadth.\n\nPrince Dimitri is also a first cousin of Emanuele Filiberto, Prince of Venice, the son and heir of the pretender to the throne of Italy, and also first cousin of the actress Catherine Oxenberg. Through Prince Dimitri's parents he is related to every royal family in Europe, making him over 1000th in the line of succession to the British throne.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239086", "title": "International Bridge", "text": "International Bridge\n\nInternational Bridge may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2239091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239091", "title": "Young Communist League of Sweden (1977)", "text": "Young Communist League of Sweden (1977)\n\nYoung Communist League of Sweden (\"Sveriges Kommunistiska Ungdomsförbund\") was a political youth organization in Sweden.\n\nWhen Arbetarpartiet Kommunisterna (Workers Party - the Communists) broke out of VPK in 1977, they founded a youth league with the name SKU. The \"Flamman\"-group in KU (Communist Youth, youth of VPK) had been expelled during 1975-1976. Later a large section of the Gävleborg district of KU affiliated itself to SKU.\n\nSKU published a magazine called \"Gryningen\" (The Dawn).\n\nIn the late 1980s SKU started to become associated with an oppositional stream within APK. In 1990 SKU broke relations the APK. Thereafter it had a short-lived period as an independent youth organization. On May Day 1990 in Stockholm SKU marched together with KU and Ungsocialisterna (youth of Socialist Party) under the banner of \"Youth against Capitalism and Stalinism\".\n"}
{"id": "2239103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239103", "title": "Dong Phaya Yen Mountains", "text": "Dong Phaya Yen Mountains\n\nDong Phaya Yen or Dong Phya Yen (, , lit. \"jungle of the cold lord\") is a mountain range in Phetchabun, Chaiyaphum, Lopburi, Saraburi, and Nakhon Ratchasima Provinces, Thailand.\n\nAs the Dong Phaya Yen is less compact and lower in height than the mountain ranges to the north and to the south, the first roads and railroads connecting the region of Isan with the capital Bangkok were built across these mountains. Before the construction of the railroad at the beginning of the 20th century, communication between these two parts of Thailand was difficult. The survey for the building of the Northeastern Line of the State Railway of Thailand began in 1887.\n\nThe Dong Phaya Yen Mountains consist mainly of a range of scattered medium-height hills stretching southwards of the Phetchabun Mountains in an arch until reaching the northern side of the Sankamphaeng Range. The mountain chain has a length of about 170 km and reaches a maximum elevation of 1,167 m at Phu Khing at the northern end. Other peaks are 900 m high Khao Phang Yai, 767 m high Khao Kheuan Lan, 782 m high Khao Cham Dot, 718 m high Khao Chalong Tong, 745 m high Khao Chan Luang, 722 m high Khao Lom, 722 m high Khao Sawong, 721 m high Khao Wong Chan Daeng, 689 m high Khao Phrik, 695 m high Khao Somphot, 657 m high Khao Kradon, 676 m high Khao Inthaya, 683 m high Khao Mot Ngam, 655 m high Khao Plai Khlong Kum, and 575 m high Khao Sadao.\n\nThe northern limit of the Phetchabun massif is not clearly defined, roughly beginning south of the 16th parallel north where the ranges forming the Phetchabun system become a group of scattered mountains of lesser height, rarely surpassing 800 m, extending southwards. The eastern mountain chain of the Phetchabun Range is mentioned as the \"Phang Hoei Range\" in some geographical works, a name that encompasses the whole northern section of the Dong Phaya Yen mountain system, for Khao Phang Hoei is a 1,008 m high summit west of Chaiyaphum town, beyond the southern end of the Phetchabun Range proper in the northern half of the Dong Phaya Yen.\n\nThe Dong Phaya Yen range divides the Chao Phraya river valley of central Thailand and the Khorat Plateau of the northeast. The mountains are drained to the east by several tributaries to the Chi and the Mun and to the west by tributaries of the Pa Sak River.\n\nThis whole mountainous region was covered by thick forest and was formerly known as \"Dong Phaya Fai\" or \"jungle of the fire lord\". There were no roads, hence it was not possible to use a cart. Travel across the forest had to be on foot or using palanquins. The whole area was reputed to be unhealthy and travelers who dared to pass through the woods exposed themselves to malaria and other illnesses. By the mid-19th century, when the clearing of the area began, Vice King \"(Uparaja)\" Pinklao changed the name of the forest from \"Dong Phaya Fai\" to \"Dong Phaya Yen\" to imply that \"the wild forest had been tamed\".\n\nBy 1887 the Siamese government decided to build a railway line from Bangkok to Korat through Ayutthaya and commissioned British Railway contractors to make a survey. The first section of what is now the Northeastern Line, the railway line to Korat across the mountains opened in 1900.\nMuch of the original forest cover of the mountains was destroyed since the beginning of 20th century. Following the completion of the line settlements were built in the area and trees were cut and land converted to agricultural use.\n\nUntil quite recently only the railroad from Bangkok to Nakhon Ratchasima and one highway crossed the system. Deforestation increased as the building of more roads connecting central Thailand and Isan began in earnest. Thailand Route 2, also known as \"Mittraphap Road\", the main road crossing the range between Saraburi and Nakhon Ratchasima, was built in 1950.\n\nThese mountains, together with the Sankamphaeng Range at their southern limit, form the Dong Phayayen-Khao Yai Forest Complex, which includes several national parks. This area was inscribed on the UNESCO World Heritage List in 2005. Altogether 6,155 km are protected in the complex. In mid-2016 UNESCO briefly considered placing the Dong Phayayen-Khao Yai Forest on a list of endangered World Heritage sites because Thailand had not done enough to stop illegal logging of phayung (Siamese rosewood) trees.\n\nOther protected areas in the Dong Phaya Yen mountains are: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239104", "title": "Islands of automation", "text": "Islands of automation\n\nIslands of automation was a popular term used largely during the 1980s to describe how rapidly developing automation systems were at first unable to communicate easily with each other. Industrial communication protocols, network technologies, and system integration helped to improve this situation. Just a few of the many examples of helping technologies are Modbus, Fieldbus, Ethernet, etc.\n\nIt is more recently used by automation specialists to describe a discrete and fully enclosed automated system applied in a largely manual environment. \n\nIn today’s interconnected world it is uncommon for automated systems to be fully stand alone. Therefore, the old usage is defunct and the new usage is more appropriate for companies that wish to automate in a limited fashion.\n"}
{"id": "2239109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239109", "title": "An Experimental Enquiry Concerning the Source of the Heat which is Excited by Friction", "text": "An Experimental Enquiry Concerning the Source of the Heat which is Excited by Friction\n\n\"An Experimental Enquiry Concerning the Source of the Heat which is Excited by Friction\" (1798), which was published in the \"Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society\", is a scientific paper by Benjamin Thompson, Count Rumford that provided a substantial challenge to established theories of heat and began the 19th century revolution in thermodynamics.\n\nRumford was an opponent of the caloric theory of heat which held that heat was a fluid that could be neither created nor destroyed. He had further developed the view that all gases and liquids were absolute non-conductors of heat. His views were out of step with the accepted science of the time and the latter theory had particularly been attacked by John Dalton and John Leslie.\n\nRumford was heavily influenced by the argument from design and it is likely that he wished to grant water a privileged and providential status in the regulation of human life.\n\nThough Rumford was to come to associate heat with motion, there is no evidence that he was committed to the kinetic theory or the principle of \"vis viva\".\n\nIn his 1798 paper, Rumford acknowledged that he had predecessors in the notion that heat was a form of motion. Those predecessors included Francis Bacon, Robert Boyle, Robert Hooke, John Locke, and Henry Cavendish.\n\nRumford had observed the frictional heat generated by boring cannon at the arsenal in Munich. Rumford immersed a cannon barrel in water and arranged for a specially blunted boring tool. He showed that the water could be boiled within roughly two and a half hours and that the supply of frictional heat was seemingly inexhaustible. Rumford confirmed that no physical change had taken place in the material of the cannon by comparing the specific heats of the material machined away and that remaining were the same.\n\nRumford also argued that the seemingly indefinite generation of heat was incompatible with the caloric theory. He contended that the only thing communicated to the barrel was motion.\n\nRumford made no attempt to further quantify the heat generated or to measure the mechanical equivalent of heat.\n\nMost established scientists, such as William Henry, as well as Thomas Thomson, believed that there was enough uncertainty in the caloric theory to allow its adaptation to account for the new results. It had certainly proved robust and adaptable up to that time. Furthermore, Thomson, Jöns Jakob Berzelius, and Antoine César Becquerel observed that electricity could be indefinitely generated by friction. No educated scientist of the time was willing to hold that electricity was not a fluid. \n\nUltimately, Rumford's claim of the \"inexhaustible\" supply of heat was a reckless extrapolation from the study. Charles Haldat made some penetrating criticisms of the reproducibility of Rumford's results and it is possible to see the whole experiment as somewhat tendentious.\n\nHowever, the experiment inspired the work of James Prescott Joule in the 1840s. Joule's more exact measurements were pivotal in establishing the kinetic theory at the expense of caloric.\n"}
{"id": "2239110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239110", "title": "1999 Tour de France", "text": "1999 Tour de France\n\nThe 1999 Tour de France was a multiple stage bicycle race held from 3 to 25 July, and the 86th edition of the Tour de France. It has no overall winner—although American cyclist Lance Armstrong originally won the event, the United States Anti-Doping Agency announced in August 2012 that they had disqualified Armstrong from all his results since 1998, including his seven consecutive Tour de France wins from 1999 to 2005 (which were, originally, the most wins in the event's history); the Union Cycliste Internationale confirmed the result. There were no French stage winners for the first time since the 1926 Tour de France. Additionally, Mario Cipollini won 4 stages in a row, setting the post-World War II record for consecutive stage wins (breaking the record of three, set by Gino Bartali in 1948.)\n\nAfter the doping controversies in the 1998 Tour de France, the Tour organisation banned some riders from the race, including Richard Virenque, Laurent Roux and Philippe Gaumont, manager Manolo Saiz and the entire team. Virenque's team Polti then appealed at the UCI against this decision, and the UCI then forced the organisers of the Tour, Amaury Sport Organisation (ASO), to allow Virenque and Saiz entry in the Tour. Initially, the team had been selected, but after their team leader Serhiy Honchar failed a blood test in the 1999 Tour de Suisse, the ASO removed Vini Caldirola from the starting list, and replaced them by , the first reserve team. Each team was allowed to field nine cyclists.\n\nThe teams entering the race were:\n\nQualified teams\n\nInvited teams\n\nThe highest point of elevation in the race was at the summit of the Col du Galibier mountain pass on stage 9.\n\nThis tour also saw the mistreatment of Christophe Bassons by his fellow riders of the peloton (notably Armstrong) for speaking out against doping. The 1998 tour had been marred by the Festina doping scandal. Bassons later told \"Bicycling\", \"The 1999 Tour was supposed to be the \"Tour of Renewal,\" but I was certain that doping had not disappeared.\" He quit the tour without finishing after \"cracking\" mentally due to his treatment by the peloton, especially in stage 10.\n\nSubsequent to Armstrong's statement to withdraw his fight against United States Anti-Doping Agency's (USADA) charges, on 24 August 2012, the USADA said it would ban Armstrong for life and stripped him of his record seven Tour de France titles. Later that day it was confirmed in a USADA statement that Armstrong was banned for life and would be disqualified from any and all competitive results obtained on and subsequent to 1 August 1998, including forfeiture of any medals, titles, winnings, finishes, points and prizes. On 22 October 2012, the Union Cycliste Internationale endorsed the USADA sanctions, and decided not to award victories to any other rider or upgrade other placings in any of the affected events.\n\nThe 1999 edition of Tour de France had two bizarre moments. The first was on stage 2 when a 25-rider pile-up occurred at Passage du Gois. The Passage du Gois is a two-mile causeway which depending on the tide can be under water. A rider came down in the middle of the field during the passage, leading to the crash that cost pre-race favourites Alex Zülle, Christophe Rinero and Michael Boogerd more than five minutes to the lead group. The second bizarre incident was on stage 10, one kilometre from the summit of Alpe d'Huez. Leading Italian rider Giuseppe Guerini was confronted by a spectator holding a camera in the middle of the road. Guerini hit the spectator but recovered and went on to win the stage.\n\nThere were several classifications in the 1999 Tour de France. The most important was the general classification, calculated by adding each cyclist's finishing times on each stage. The cyclist with the least accumulated time was the race leader, identified by the yellow jersey; the winner of this classification is considered the winner of the Tour.\n\nAdditionally, there was a points classification, which awarded a green jersey. In the points classification, cyclists got points for finishing among the best in a stage finish, or in intermediate sprints. The cyclist with the most points led the classification, and was identified with a green jersey.\n\nThere was also a mountains classification. The organisation had categorised some climbs as either \"hors catégorie\", first, second, third, or fourth-category; points for this classification were won by the first cyclists that reached the top of these climbs first, with more points available for the higher-categorised climbs. The cyclist with the most points lead the classification, and wore a white jersey with red polka dots.\n\nThe fourth individual classification was the young rider classification, which was not marked by a jersey. This was decided the same way as the general classification, but only riders under 26 years were eligible.\n\nFor the team classification, the times of the best three cyclists per team on each stage were added; the leading team was the team with the lowest total time.\n\nIn addition, there was a combativity award given after each mass-start stage to the cyclist considered most combative, who wore a red number bib the next stage. The decision was made by a jury composed of journalists who gave points. The cyclist with the most points from votes in all stages led the combativity classification. Jacky Durand won this classification, and was given overall the super-combativity award. The Souvenir Henri Desgrange was given in honour of Tour founder Henri Desgrange to the first rider to pass the summit of the Col du Galibier on stage 9. This prize was won by José Luis Arrieta.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239113", "title": "Deep inelastic scattering", "text": "Deep inelastic scattering\n\nDeep inelastic scattering is the name given to a process used to probe the insides of hadrons (particularly the baryons, such as protons and neutrons), using electrons, muons and neutrinos. It provided the first convincing evidence of the reality of quarks, which up until that point had been considered by many to be a purely mathematical phenomenon. It is a relatively new process, first attempted in the 1960s and 1970s. It is an extension of Rutherford scattering to much higher energies of the scattering particle and thus to much finer resolution of the components of the nuclei.\n\nTo explain each part of the terminology, \"scattering\" refers to the lepton (electron, muon, etc.) being deflected. Measuring the angles of deflection gives information about the nature of the process. \"Inelastic\" means that the target absorbs some kinetic energy. In fact, at the very high energies of leptons used, the target is \"shattered\" and emits many new particles. These particles are hadrons and, to oversimplify greatly, the process is interpreted as a constituent quark of the target being \"knocked out\" of the target hadron, and due to quark confinement, the quarks are not actually observed but instead produce the observable particles by hadronization. The \"deep\" refers to the high energy of the lepton, which gives it a very short wavelength and hence the ability to probe distances that are small compared with the size of the target hadron, so it can probe \"deep inside\" the hadron. Also, note that in the perturbative approximation it is a high-energy virtual photon emitted from the lepton and absorbed by the target hadron which transfers energy to one of its constituent quarks, as in the adjacent diagram.\n\nThe Standard Model of physics, in particular the work of Murray Gell-Mann in the 1960s, had been successful in uniting much of the previously disparate concepts in particle physics into one, relatively straightforward, scheme. In essence, there were three types of particles:\n\n\nThe leptons had been detected since 1897, when J. J. Thomson had shown that electric current is a flow of electrons. Some bosons were being routinely detected, although the W, W and Z particles of the electroweak force were only categorically seen in the early 1980s, and gluons were only firmly pinned down at DESY in Hamburg at about the same time. Quarks, however, were still elusive.\n\nDrawing on Rutherford's groundbreaking experiments in the early years of the 20th century, ideas for detecting quarks were formulated. Rutherford had proven that atoms had a small, massive, charged nucleus at their centre by firing alpha particles at atoms of gold. Most had gone through with little or no deviation, but a few were deflected through large angles or came right back. This suggested that atoms had internal structure and a lot of empty space.\n\nIn order to probe the interiors of baryons, a small, penetrating and easily produced particle needed to be used. Electrons were ideal for the role, as they are abundant and easily accelerated to high energies due to their electric charge. In 1968, at the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center (SLAC), electrons were fired at protons and neutrons in atomic nuclei.\n\nThe collision absorbs some kinetic energy, and as such it is inelastic. This is a contrast to Rutherford scattering, which is elastic: no loss of kinetic energy. The electron emerges from the nucleus, and its trajectory and velocity can be detected.\n\nAnalysis of the results led to the following conclusions:\n\nThe experiments were important because not only did they confirm the physical reality of quarks, but also proved again that the Standard Model was the correct avenue of research for particle physicists to pursue.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239115", "title": "Communist Youth of Sweden", "text": "Communist Youth of Sweden\n\nYoung Communist League of Sweden (\"Sveriges Kommunistiska Ungdomsförbund\") is the youth wing of the Communist Party of Sweden (SKP). It was founded in 2000. The organization is a member of the World Federation of Democratic Youth.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239117", "title": "Morgan–McClure Motorsports", "text": "Morgan–McClure Motorsports\n\nMorgan–McClure Motorsports was an American auto racing team that competed in the NASCAR Cup Series full-time until 2007. It operated for 28 years, starting in 1983 and ending in 2012. The team was most notable for running the No. 4 from 1983 to 2010.\n\nMorgan–McClure Motorsports was owned by business partners Larry McClure and Tim Morgan. It began in 1983 when the two purchased a race car from G. C. Spencer. The car debuted at Talladega Superspeedway and was piloted by Connie Saylor. The car finished 40th after suffering engine failure. After firing Connie because they wanted a younger driver and after obtaining the rights to No. 4 & the car he drove for G. C. Spencer, Mark Martin took over the driving duties later that year, and had one top-10 finish. In 1984, the team signed Folgers as a sponsor and began racing as car No. 4. Tommy Ellis ran twenty races that year for the team, with Lennie Pond and Joe Ruttman running the rest of the schedule. Ruttman drove sixteen races for them next season, notching one top-5 and four top-10 finishes. In 1986, MMM got Eastman Kodak sponsorship and signed Rick Wilson to handle the driving chores. Wilson got the team its first pole position at Bristol Motor Speedway in 1988, its first full season on the circuit. When Wilson announced he was leaving the team in 1989, the team was eighth in points.\n\nFor the 1990 season, the team hired Phil Parsons, but after three races, Parsons was released in favor of Ernie Irvan. In his first race with the team, Irvan started 30th, and finished third. Two races later, Irvan won his first pole position at Bristol Motor Speedway. The team switched from Oldsmobile to Chevrolet in order to get more manufacturer support. Their first race after the switch was at the 1990 Bud at the Glen. Irvan picked up his first career victory, as well as the first victory for MMM the following week at Bristol, in the Busch 500. The next season, Irvan won the Daytona 500 and The Bud at the Glen (The latter was marred by the death of popular veteran J. D. McDuffie). When the checkered flag fell at the end of the season, the team was fifth in points. The next season, Irvan won three races over a two-month stretch, at Sears Point International Raceway, the Pepsi 400 at the Daytona International Speedway, and at Talladega Superspeedway, respectively. In 1993, Irvan won the pole twice, as well as a victory at Talladega. When Davey Allison died in an aircraft accident, Robert Yates asked Irvan to take his place. Irvan wanted out of his contract with MMM, and it ensued into an ugly lawsuit. Irvan was able to get out, but there were hurt feelings on both sides.\n\nFor the 1994 season, the team hired Sterling Marlin to drive. In his first race in the team, Marlin won the Daytona 500, beating out, ironically, Irvan. Marlin won the 500 the next year as well, in addition to two more races at Darlington Speedway and Talladega. In 1996, Marlin won two races, at Talladega and the Pepsi 400 at Daytona.\n\nAfter the team went winless with Marlin in 1997, finishing 25th in points, the team and driver decided to part ways. MMM hired two-time race winner Bobby Hamilton. Hamilton led 378 out of 500 laps and won from the pole at Martinsville Speedway and finished 10th in the final points standings. Soon, the team was not able repeat its success, and Hamilton left for Andy Petree Racing in 2001. He was replaced by Robby Gordon, but Gordon struggled in the ride and was released after just five races. Mike Skinner and Kevin Lepage shared the driving duties for two years without much success. In 2003, MMM switched to Pontiac. They lost their Kodak sponsorship in 2004, but MMM remained open, switching back to Chevrolet (almost being required to do so, as Pontiac had withdrawn from the Cup series at the end of 2003). Jimmy Spencer drove the car most of that year, and team co-owner Jerry McClure's son Eric drove another team car to finish 26th at Talladega Superspeedway. For 2005, the team signed Lucas Oil as a sponsor, and hired Mike Wallace to drive. Wallace was replaced by John Andretti, P. J. Jones, and Todd Bodine for some of the races in 2005. In 2006, Scott Wimmer was announced as the 2006 driver with new sponsorship from the Utah-based AERO Exhaust. Wimmer had an average start of 35th and average of finish 29th, no wins, top fives, or top tens. On October 3, 2006, Larry McClure announced that the team and Wimmer parted ways. They hired Todd Bodine to drive the next two races, Charlotte and Atlanta, until they could find a permanent replacement. The last three races the team hired veteran Ward Burton, who at the time had not driven in the Cup Series in several years. On December 12, 2006, MMM announced they signed Burton to take full-time seat in 2007 with sponsorship from State Water Heaters. Burton was released before the last race of the 2007 season. Furthermore, Morgan–McClure Motorsports shut down weeks shy of the 2008 Daytona 500 due to financial problems, but had agreed to let Mike Wallace drive in the 2008 Daytona 500 if sponsorship was found. Sponsorship was found, but Larry McClure said that he was tired of just sliding by and would come back when major sponsorship could be secured. When Tony Stewart announced on August 14 that Ryan Newman would drive the No. 4 car in 2009, Morgan–McClure Motorsports protested. Tim Morgan stated, \"There's some sweat and history in that number 4. We feel like it ours,\" in an article for the Bristol Herald Courier. After discussions with MMM and NASCAR, on August 18 Stewart announced that Newman would drive the No. 39 instead of a No. 4 car in 2009. In 2014 Stewart did acquire the No. 4 to use with driver Kevin Harvick, who replaced Newman and the No. 39 in the 2014 season.\n\nRumors indicated that Morgan–McClure Motorsports would prepare a No. 4 Chevy to attempt the 2009 Daytona 500, but this did not happen. On April 11, 2009, the team made public their intentions to attempt the Aaron's 499 at Talladega Superspeedway with driver Eric McClure in the No. 4 Hefty/Walmart Chevy, however the team failed to qualify for the race. Scott Wimmer attempted to qualify the car at Bristol. Wimmer made the event, Morgan–McClure's first start since 2007. He finished 29th.\n\nSince 2009, legal problems have prevented Morgan–McClure from actively competing. Larry McClure was charged with federal income tax fraud for not reporting $269,000 for cars used in the ARCA series. He was also forced to pay back $60,000 to Eastman-Kodak for falsifying an invoice. McClure spent eighteen months in jail and works at a family car dealership.\n\nMMM returned to Sprint Cup at Bristol in August 2010, but Kevin Lepage failed to qualify for the race. The team has not attempted another race. The team closed its doors in 2012. \n\n"}
{"id": "2239130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239130", "title": "Geirmund Brendesæter", "text": "Geirmund Brendesæter\n\nGeirmund \"Geddi\" Brendesæter (born 22 March 1970) is a Norwegian former professional football defender.\n\nBrendesæter played 13 seasons for Brann. His debut was on 1 June 1991, and he played his last match against Vålerenga in the last match of the season 2003. He played mostly as a right defender. During this period he also played 13 matches for the German team Arminia Bielefeld in 1997, but returned to Brann to play the last half of the season. Brendesæter played in total 336 matches for Brann, but scored only seven goals.\n\nIn the 2001 season, he went to the media and asked the supporters if he should retire or not. The voting ended with 3525 votes to continue, and 3429 votes to retire. Eventually Brendesæter signed a new contract. In his last match for Brann, he was put on as a substitute a few minutes before the end, the crowd going wild as he entered the pitch. He was placed as a striker, the position which he had played in as a junior player, but had never been used in for Brann.\n\nBrendesæther, more commonly known as \"Geddi\", has been subject to a certain degree of idolizing by the supporters of SK Brann. This is due to his fierce loyalty to the club, alongside his blazing right-flank raids. According to former Brann captain and Aberdeen F.C. left-back Cato Guntveit, the young Brendesæther consistently used to do the tunnel dribble on his opponents while setting the Tippeligaen alight with his firework displays and trademark haircut.\n\nBrendesæther also made six appearances for Norwegian national team between 1993 and 1995.\n"}
{"id": "2239142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239142", "title": "Kidsgrove railway station", "text": "Kidsgrove railway station\n\nKidsgrove railway station serves the town of Kidsgrove in Staffordshire, England. The station is north of Stoke-on-Trent. The station is served by trains on the Crewe to Derby Line which is also a community rail line known as the North Staffordshire line. The station is owned by Network Rail and managed by East Midlands Railway.\n\nIn the year 2009/10 the usage of the station grew by almost 58% to over 100,000 recorded journeys, in addition more than 6,434 passengers used the station to change trains. The increase in usage (followed by a similar increase for 2010/11) has been attributed to improved timetable in December 2008 (specifically the introduction of London Midland's Desiro service to London Euston via Tamworth).\n\nThe present station was opened 9 October 1848 by the North Staffordshire Railway as \"Harecastle\" and was during the early years of the North Staffordshire era variously called \"Harecastle Junction\", \"Kidsgrove Junction\". \"Kidsgrove Junction, Harecastle\" before settling upon \"Harecastle\" in 1875. Between 1885/6 and 1923/4 it was called \"Harecastle for Kidsgrove\". In 1944 it was renamed Kidsgrove.\n\nIn British Rail days it was known as \"Kidsgrove Central\" when the town had three stations, the other two were Kidsgrove Liverpool Rd and Market Street Halt on the old North Staffordshire Railway's Potteries Loop Line (all three stations were opened by the North Staffordshire Railway). It is situated on the Manchester branch of the West Coast Main Line at the junction where the line from Stoke-on-Trent divides for Crewe and Manchester Piccadilly.\n\nIt is just north of the Harecastle Tunnels on the Trent and Mersey Canal and the Harecastle railway tunnel and 1965 railway diversion.\n\nServices at Kidsgrove are operated by East Midlands Railway, London Northwestern Railway and Northern Trains. The current off peak service in trains per hour is:\n\nEast Midlands Railway\nThese services are operated by Class 153 or Class 158 DMUs.\n\nLondon Northwestern Railway\nThese services are operated by Class 350 EMUs.\n\nNorthern Trains\nThese services are operated by Class 323 EMUs.\n\nNo services operated by Avanti West Coast or CrossCountry call at Kidsgrove, (though 4 Cross Country and 4 Avanti West Coast services pass through platforms 1 & 2 each hour)\n\nThe station has 4 platforms. Platform 1 serves the hourly Northern service to Stoke-on-Trent. Platform 2 serves the hourly Northern services to Manchester Piccadilly. Platform 3 serves both the East Midlands Railway services to Derby and the London Northwestern Railway services to London Euston. Platform 4 serves both the East Midlands Railway and London Northwestern Railway services to Crewe.\n"}
{"id": "2239145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239145", "title": "Charles de Haldat du Lys", "text": "Charles de Haldat du Lys\n\nCharles Nicolas Alexandre Haldat du Lys (24 December 1770 – 26 November 1852) was a French physicist who performed experimental work in hydrostatics.\n\nHe was a critic of the reliability of Benjamin Thompson's researches on the generation of heat, \"An Experimental Enquiry Concerning the Source of the Heat which is Excited by Friction\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2239147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239147", "title": "Chaine Memorial", "text": "Chaine Memorial\n\nThe Chaine Memorial Tower in Larne, County Antrim, Northern Ireland, is a memorial to James Chaine, a former Member of Parliament for Antrim, who died in 1885. It is a cylindrical stone tower lighthouse with a conical roof, situated on the west side of entrance to Larne Lough.\n\nChaine developed Larne's short sea route to Scotland as well as establishing the town as a transatlantic port. The memorial, built in 1888, by public subscription, is a replica of an Irish round tower. The memorial is situated at the mouth of Larne harbour, and is reached via Chaine Memorial Road. There is access from Curran Road via Bay Road.\n\nThe plaque which adorns the memorial is now difficult to read. It reads that the monument was erected by the...\n\nIn 1885, the Memorial Committee for Chaine sought the assistance of the Commissioners of Irish Lights to help to build and maintain a tower, but they initially refused. Eventually it was agreed the Memorial Committee would build the replica round tower, without a light, at Sandy Point Bay, and the Larne Harbour authority would maintain it. The approved tower was completed in January 1888.\n\nIn 1896 it was suggested that a light be added to the tower. As a result, the Commissioners of Irish Lights took over the tower and on 1 July 1899, an oil powered navigational light was installed 22 metres up the tower (the tower being 28 metres in height). The light was installed to aid the navigation of the Hunter Rock, a submerged rock approximately 5 miles off shore. The light was de-manned and converted to coal gas from the Larne mains gas supply in 1905, before finally being converted to electric in September 1935. During April 1948 the supply was changed from DC to AC.\n\nResponsibility for maintaining the light now falls under the remit of the attending keeper at Ferris Point Lighthouse on the other side of the Harbour.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239157", "title": "Wheel (computing)", "text": "Wheel (computing)\n\nIn computing, the term wheel refers to a user account with a \"wheel bit\", a system setting that provides additional special system privileges that empower a user to execute restricted commands that ordinary user accounts cannot access.\n\nThe term \"wheel\" was first applied to computer user privilege levels after the introduction of the TENEX operating system, later distributed under the name TOPS-20 in the 1960s and early 1970s. The term was derived from the slang phrase \"big wheel\", referring to a person with great power or influence.\n\nIn the 1980s, the term was imported into Unix culture due to the migration of operating system developers and users from TENEX/TOPS-20 to Unix.\n\nModern Unix systems generally use user groups as a security protocol to control access privileges. The \"wheel\" group is a special user group used on some Unix systems, mostly BSD systems, to control access to the su or sudo command, which allows a user to masquerade as another user (usually the super user).. Debian-like operating systems create a group called codice_1 with similar purpose to wheel group.\n\nThe phrase wheel war, which originated at Stanford University, was first documented in the 1983 version of The Jargon File. A 'wheel war' was characterized as a part of an immature 'larval phase' wherein students with administrative privileges would attempt to lock each other out of a university's multi-user (\"see also: multiseat\") computer system, sometimes causing unintentional harm to other users.\n"}
{"id": "2239158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239158", "title": "Olderfleet Castle", "text": "Olderfleet Castle\n\nOlderfleet Castle is a four-storey towerhouse, the remains of which stand on Curran Point to the south of Larne Harbour in Larne, County Antrim, Northern Ireland. The place name of Olderfleet may be a corruption of \"Ulfrecksfiord\" (or Ulfried's Fjord), the Viking name for Larne Lough.\n\nOlderfleet Castle is a State Care Historic Monument in the townland of Curran and Drumaliss, in the former Larne Borough Council area, at grid ref: D4133 0166.\n\nThe original towerhouse was possibly built by the Scoto-Irish Bissett family of Glenarm around 1250, although these remains are actually thought to be those of Curran Castle, a towerhouse built in the sixteenth century. On a 1610 map it was called Coraine Castle.\n\nIn 1315 Edward Bruce landed here with his 6000 strong army en route to conquer Ireland, with a welcome from the Bissetts. Queen Elizabeth I considered the castle of such strategic importance that it was seized for the crown and Sir Moyses Hill appointed its governor in 1569. In 1597 the castle was claimed by the MacDonnells and in 1598 it was dismantled.\n\nThe present castle was probably built about 1612. In 1621 it was granted to Sir Arthur Chichester and remained in that family until leased to William Agnew in 1823. James Chaine purchased the lease in 1865. In 1938 it was taken into State Care.\n\nWhat remains of the four-storey towerhouse is part of the tower with pairs of gun loops in the basement. The square remains show that it only had 1 metre thick walls and it is without visible domestic features, which means that it could have been built as a fortified warehouse and watchtower.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239159", "title": "Mechanical equivalent of heat", "text": "Mechanical equivalent of heat\n\nIn the history of science, the mechanical equivalent of heat states that motion and heat are mutually interchangeable and that in every case, a given amount of work would generate the same amount of heat, provided the work done is totally converted to heat energy. The mechanical equivalent of heat was a concept that had an important part in the development and acceptance of the conservation of energy and the establishment of the science of thermodynamics in the 19th century.\n\nBenjamin Thompson, Count Rumford, had observed the frictional heat generated by boring cannon at the arsenal in Munich, Germany circa 1797. Rumford immersed a cannon barrel in water and arranged for a specially blunted boring tool. He showed that the water could be boiled within roughly two and a half hours and that the supply of frictional heat was seemingly inexhaustible. \n\nBased on his experiments, he published \"An Experimental Enquiry Concerning the Source of the Heat which is Excited by Friction\", (1798), Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society p. 102. This scientific paper provided a substantial challenge to established theories of heat and began the 19th century revolution in thermodynamics. The experiment inspired the work of James Prescott Joule in the 1840s. Joule's more exact measurements on equivalence were pivotal in establishing the kinetic theory at the expense of the caloric theory. The idea that heat and work are equivalent was also proposed by Julius Robert von Mayer in 1842 in the leading German physics journal and independently by James Prescott Joule in 1843, in the leading British physics journal. Similar work was carried out by Ludwig A. Colding in 1840-1843, though Colding's work was little known outside his native Denmark. \n\nA collaboration between Nicolas Clément and Sadi Carnot in the 1820s had some related thinking near the same lines. In 1845, Joule published a paper entitled \"The Mechanical Equivalent of Heat\", in which he specified a numerical value for the amount of mechanical work required to produce a unit of heat. In particular Joule had experimented on the amount of mechanical work generated by friction needed to raise the temperature of a pound of water by one degree Fahrenheit and found a consistent value of 778.24 foot pound force (4.1550 J·cal). Joule contended that motion and heat were mutually interchangeable and that, in every case, a given amount of work would generate the same amount of heat. Von Mayer also published a numerical value for mechanical equivalent of heat in 1845 but his experimental method wasn't as convincing.\n\nThough a standardised value of 4.1860 J·cal was established in the early 20th century, in the 1920s, it was ultimately realised that the constant is simply the specific heat of water, a quantity that varies with temperature between the values of 4.17 and 4.22 J·g·°C. The change in unit was the result of the demise of the calorie as a unit in physics and chemistry.\n\nBoth von Mayer and Joule met with initial neglect and resistance despite having published in leading European physics journals, but by 1847, a lot of leading scientists of the day were paying attention. Hermann Helmholtz in 1847 published what is considered a definitive declaration of the conservation of energy. Helmholtz had learned from reading Joule's publications, though Helmholtz eventually came around to crediting both Joule and von Mayer for priority.\n\nAlso in 1847, Joule made a well-attended presentation at the annual meeting of British Association for the Advancement of Science. Among those in attendance was William Thomson. Thomson was intrigued but initially skeptical. Over the next two years, Thomson became increasingly convinced of Joule's theory, finally admitting his conviction in print in 1851, simultaneously crediting von Mayer. Thomson collaborated with Joule, mainly by correspondence, Joule conducting experiments, Thomson analysing the results and suggesting further experiments. The collaboration lasted from 1852 to 1856. Its published results did much to bring about general acceptance of Joule's work and the kinetic theory.\n\nHowever, in 1848, von Mayer had first had sight of Joule's papers and wrote to the French Académie des Sciences to assert priority. His letter was published in the \"Comptes Rendus\" and Joule was quick to react. Thomson's close relationship with Joule allowed him to become dragged into the controversy. The pair planned that Joule would admit von Mayer's priority for the idea of the mechanical equivalent but to claim that experimental verification rested with Joule. Thomson's associates, co-workers and relatives such as William John Macquorn Rankine, James Thomson, James Clerk Maxwell, and Peter Guthrie Tait joined to champion Joule's cause.\n\nHowever, in 1862, John Tyndall, in one of his many excursions into popular science and many public disputes with Thomson and his circle, gave a lecture at the Royal Institution entitled \"On Force\" in which he credited von Mayer with conceiving and measuring the mechanical equivalent of heat. Thomson and Tait were angered, and an undignified public exchange of correspondence took place in the pages of the \"Philosophical Magazine\", and the rather more popular \"Good Words\". Tait even resorted to championing Colding's cause in an attempt to undermine von Mayer.\n\nThough Tyndall again pressed von Mayer's cause in \"Heat: A Mode of Motion\" (1863) with the publication of Sir Henry Enfield Roscoe's \"Edinburgh Review\" article \"Thermo-Dynamics\" in January 1864, Joule's reputation was sealed while that of von Mayer entered a period of obscurity.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239164", "title": "Where You Live", "text": "Where You Live\n\nWhere You Live is Tracy Chapman's seventh studio album and was released September 13, 2005. The album was co-produced by Tchad Blake. It produced two singles: \"Change\", and \"America\".\n\nAll songs written by Tracy Chapman.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239168", "title": "Communist Workers League (Senegal)", "text": "Communist Workers League (Senegal)\n\nCommunist Workers League (in French: \"Ligue Communiste des Travailleurs\") was a Trotskyist political party in Senegal, founded in 1977. It originated from a split in GOR (the forerunner of the OST). It published \"Tribune Ouvrière\". LCT adhered to the Fourth International - International Centre of Reconstruction of Pierre Lambert.\n\nThe first public act of LCT was a leafletting in support of the students strike at the Faculty of Science in Dakar in May 1977.\n\nAt the time of the 1978 elections, LCT advocated abstention.\n\nLCT was awarded official recognition on July 8, 1982.\n\nThe general secretary was M. Mahmoud Saleh.\n\nSource: Nzouakeu, Jacques Mariel. \"Les parties politiques sénégalais.\" Dakar: Editions Clairafrique, 1984.\n"}
{"id": "2239184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239184", "title": "Niagara Falls Suspension Bridge", "text": "Niagara Falls Suspension Bridge\n\nThe Niagara Falls Suspension Bridge stood from 1855 to 1897 across the Niagara River and was the world's first working railway suspension bridge. It spanned and stood downstream of Niagara Falls, where it connected Niagara Falls, Ontario to Niagara Falls, New York. Trains used the upper of its two decks, while pedestrians and carriages used the lower. The bridge was the idea of Canadian politicians, and it was built by an American company and a Canadian company. It was most commonly called the Suspension Bridge, although other names included Niagara Railway Suspension Bridge, Niagara Suspension Bridge, and its official American name of the International Suspension Bridge.\n\nThe bridge was part of Canadian politician William Hamilton Merritt's vision to promote trade within his country and with its neighbor the United States. Many argued that a suspension bridge could not support the safe passage of trains, including bridge builders. Nonetheless, the bridge companies hired Charles Ellet, Jr., who laid a line by a kite across the chasm and built a temporary suspension bridge in 1848. Ellet left the project after a financial dispute with the bridge companies, who hired John Augustus Roebling to complete the project. By 1854, his bridge was nearly complete, and the lower deck was opened for pedestrian and carriage travel. On March 18, 1855, a fully laden passenger train officially opened the completed bridge.\n\nThe Suspension Bridge was a border crossing between Canada and the United States, and it played significant roles in the histories of the Niagara region and the two countries. Three railway lines crossed over the bridge, connecting cities on both sides of the border. The Great Western Railway, New York Central Railroad, and New York and Erie Rail Road differed in track gauge; the bridge used a triple gauge system to conserve space, overlapping two tracks on top of each other and using a rail of each to form the third track. The railroads brought a large influx of trade and tourists into the region around the Niagara Falls. In the time leading to the American Civil War, the Underground Railroad helped slaves in the United States escape across the Suspension Bridge to freedom in Canada. After the war, the bridge became a symbol of inspiration to Americans, encouraging them to rebuild their country and pushing them to quickly industrialize their nation.\n\nThe bridge's success proved that a railway suspension bridge could be safe and operational. Its wooden structures began to decay and were replaced with stronger steel and iron versions by 1886. Heavier trains required it to be replaced by the Steel Arch Bridge, later renamed the Whirlpool Rapids Bridge, on August 27, 1897.\n\nIn the mid-19th century, the hinterlands of the North American East Coast opened up rapidly. In Canada, entrepreneur and politician William Hamilton Merritt helped establish several trade routes, especially in dredged waterways between the lake cities. He also envisioned a U.S. and Canadian rail network to connect the Atlantic coast with new territories in the West, and this led to a railway suspension bridge across the Niagara River below the falls.\nMerritt's vision for the Niagara Suspension Bridge was conceived at the Niagara River itself. In summer 1844 while taking a picnic on the river shores, near what was then the town of Clifton, Merritt read a letter from his sons to his wife. The younger Merritts were touring Europe and visited the town of Fribourg, Switzerland. Amazed by the Freiburg Suspension Bridge, they wrote to their parents, describing the wonders of the bridge in eloquent terms. Their writing had a profound effect on their parents, and the elder Merritts wondered if such a suspension bridge could be built across the Niagara. Merritt was driven to realize that vision, and he approached the relevant authorities, including the Queen of England, for permission to start the construction of the suspension bridge. His efforts were rewarded in 1846; the state of New York and the government of Canada approved the charters to form the Niagara Falls International Bridge Company and the Niagara Falls Suspension Bridge Company, respectively.\n\nIn the years before the first bridge was built over the Niagara River, the river was crossed entirely by boats. Powered by steam engines, vessels ferried people and carriages across the raging river at calmer points of the water. One of these vessels was the \"Maid of the Mist\", the first tourist boat to ply the waters of the Niagara River. Named after a local legend, the steamer began service in 1846. Launching from a point below the Horseshoe Falls, it chugged up to the base of the falls, offering a close-up view of the natural wonder to its passengers, before moving to the opposite shore. The site for the Suspension Bridge was half a mile (0.8 km) from the \"Maid of the Mist\"s landings. The selection of the bridge site was based more on aesthetics than technical ease; it was the narrowest point of the gorge— across and deep—that allowed a full view of the falls from the American side.\n\nAfter the bridge companies were founded, they invited engineers to submit plans and cost estimates for a suspension bridge that carried a railway. The invitation was met with skepticism among the engineering community. At that time, there was not a suspension bridge that could allow a train to pass over it safely. While the Europeans were erecting suspension bridges by the hundreds, the Americans mostly ignored them out of safety concerns; in 1831 Sir Samuel Brown's Broughton Suspension Bridge in Britain had collapsed under the marching feet of a troop of soldiers, sending those on its deck into the River Irwell. Furthermore, many American bridges had collapsed without experiencing weight and pressure equivalent to railroad traffic, and American engineers feared that any railway bridge would likely fail—especially a suspension bridge.\n\nFour engineers responded: Edward Serrell, Samuel Keefer, Charles Ellet, Jr., and John Augustus Roebling. All submitted designs for a suspension bridge. At the time of the bidding, Ellet and Roebling were acknowledged as masters of suspension bridge building in America. Roebling submitted two designs, a conservative single-deck suspension bridge and a double-decked version, both with meticulous calculations and drawings. Instead of relying solely on submissions, Charles Ellet, Jr. took a proactive approach. When he got wind of the project in 1845, he wrote to Charles B. Stuart, chief engineer of the Great Western Railway, boldly proclaiming that he could build a bridge for any likely purpose across the Niagara. After the charters had been obtained, Ellet helped Stuart to sell the bridge companies' stock and offered to buy US$30,000 worth of stock himself. His efforts earned him the $190,000 bridge contract on November 9, 1847.\n\nWhile growing up on a farm in Pennsylvania, Charles Ellet, Jr. scraped through odd jobs, but saved enough money to finance an education at the École nationale des Ponts et Chaussées in France. After attending four months of lectures, he toured Europe before returning to the United States as the only native-born American with European education in engineering. Ellet announced his ambitions to build suspension bridges in his country of birth by proposing to span the Potomac River with one. His proposal was ignored; few were willing to heed a young, inexperienced and impetuous engineer. To gain experience, Ellet started to work on railroads and canals, and later became the chief engineer on the James River and Kanawha Canal project. He further improved his reputation by contributing articles about suspension bridges to respected engineering journals, such as \"American Railroad Journal\"; eventually, Ellet built his first suspension bridge over the Schuylkill River, Pennsylvania, in 1842.\n\nEllet had the looks of an actor, which were complemented by his entertaining oratorical skills. He took advantage of these characteristics, and used showmanship and dramatics to market his proposals. These skills helped to win him attention and raise his profile both in the public and within the industry. However, his imperiousness also ruffled the feathers of people, which caused conflicts. Nonetheless, his capability to promote himself had won him the contracts for the Suspension Bridge and the later Wheeling Suspension Bridge; the Wheeling contract was won in July 1847, while Ellet's plan for the Niagara Suspension Bridge was still in its initial stages of construction. Ellet's initial design for the bridge at Niagara placed all forms of transportation on a single deck. The railway track was in the middle of the deck, sandwiched between carriageways and footpaths on the outer sides. Moreover, trains would not go over the bridge; their cars would be disconnected from the heavy locomotives and pulled across the bridge by horses, cables, or lighter engines. Before the work could begin, Ellet faced the problem of all suspension bridge construction: getting a line across the gap.\n\nEllet's brainstorming sessions with his men raised several ideas that could enable a line to be suspended across the gorge; these included firing cannonballs with the line attached, towing it across the river with a steamer, and tying it to a rocket that would then be launched across the gorge. Ultimately the bridge engineer chose an idea inspired by Benjamin Franklin's experiment with a kite. It was similar to 15th century inventor Leonardo da Vinci's plan to span a gap. Ellet also took the opportunity to generate publicity for his project. Organizing a kite-flying contest, he offered $5 to any boy who flew a kite across the gorge and secured the kite string to the other side. Youths from nearby towns flocked in to participate. Unlike the other boys who flew their kites from the United States side of the gorge, 16-year-old Homan Walsh crossed the river by a ferry upstream and walked to the Canadian side of the bridge site to launch his kite. He almost succeeded on his first attempt; his kite flew across but crashed just short of the shore. After resting several days at a friend's house, Walsh finally got his kite across the gorge and secured its line to a tree.\nCharles Ellet and his team tied a heavier line to the kite string and pulled the joined lines across. They pulled successive heavier and stronger lines across until the final bridge cable— thick—was hanging across the gorge. The cable was suspended between two wooden towers tall, and attached to an iron basket. Ellet planned to use this system as a basket ferry to shuttle workers and materials across the gorge, saving time that would otherwise have been spent on land and ferry travel. Through media coverage and word-of-mouth, many people knew of Ellet's efforts and flocked to the site to watch the construction. On March 13, 1848, the system was completed, and the team planned to test it by pulling the empty basket across. They hit a snag when the basket kept getting stuck halfway and could not move ahead. Pulling back the basket, Ellet decided to assure the watching crowd that the system was workable. He stepped into the basket, and it moved towards the opposite shore. When Ellet reached the problematic spot, he spotted the issue; the basket's rollers could not pass over a portion of the cable that had been accidentally flattened during the construction. He fixed the problem and proceeded to cross to the Canadian side and back, becoming the first person to cross the gorge. Although the bridge companies had prohibited Ellet from collecting tolls, he charged each person $1.00 for the chance to \"observe first hand the engineering wonder of bridging the Niagara.\" On some days, the basket ferry conveyed up to 125 people across the gorge.\n\nContinuing his construction, Ellet built two footbridges and joined them together to form an wide suspension bridge. He intended to use this temporary bridge as a scaffold for the construction of the permanent railway bridge. On July 29, 1848, the bridge builder inaugurated the span in his typical manner; standing in his horse-buggy like a gladiator in his chariot, Ellet sped across the bridge, which had railings for only a third of its length at that time. His stunt garnered further publicity for the bridge, and the toll collected from the span proved lucrative; $5,000 was collected in less than a year since its official opening on August 1, 1848. Disputes arose between the bridge companies and Ellet over their shares of the money, and their relations turned bitter. The companies charged that Ellet was late in his schedule and withheld payment. Ellet retaliated by mounting cannons at the bridge to claim ownership over it. In the end the matter went to court. The bridge companies paid $10,000 to Charles Ellet, and he left the project to work full-time on the Wheeling Suspension Bridge.\n\nThe Niagara Suspension Bridge project was in hiatus for three years before the bridge companies engaged another renowned civil engineer, John Augustus Roebling, to complete it. The delay caused Roebling to miss out on the honor of building the first permanent bridge to span the Niagara; Serrell completed the Lewiston Suspension Bridge in 1851. Roebling would, however, achieve other honors in building his Niagara Railway Suspension Bridge.\n\nBorn in Prussia (later a part of Germany), John Augustus Roebling obtained his first conditional engineering degree (\"Feldmesserprüfung\") at Erfurt in 1824. He attended two semesters of lessons at Berlin's Bauakademie and worked for the Prussian government, constructing military roads. Tired of the bureaucracy, he resigned his position and left for the United States in 1830, arriving with his brother in Philadelphia on August 6, 1831. Instead of continuing an engineering profession, he took up farming for a living. After five years he married a tailor's daughter, and had eight children with her over the next decade. He found agrarian work unsatisfactory, and in 1837, after the death of his brother and the birth of his first child, he returned to engineering.\n\nRoebling first signed on as a surveyor for the Beaver River canal system, launching his career with a string of canal and railroad projects. Aside from writing articles in engineering journals, Roebling designed his own wire cables and started his own company to manufacture them; the John A. Roebling Company was the first wire rope manufacturer in the United States. Gradually gaining fame for his civil engineering, Roebling finally got to build suspension bridges. His first bridge was the Allegheny Suspension Aqueduct in Pittsburgh. The structure, completed in 1845, was the first suspension aqueduct in the world and the first large American suspension bridge that had multiple spans. Furthermore, it was the first suspension structure built with modern cable-spinning techniques—Roebling's own invention. Earlier bridge building techniques involved fabricating the main cables at a factory, transporting them to the bridge site, and then stretching the heavy cables over the gap to erect them over the bridge. Roebling, during his experiments with wire ropes, conceived and patented a new construction method for these main cables. A long line—the traveler rope—formed a loop around two horizontal wheels, one on each side of the gorge. A lightweight wheel, \"the traveling wheel,\" was attached to this line, and a wire threaded around this wheel. Like a belt in a mechanical system, the traveler rope and its wheel moved across the gap as the horizontal wheels turned, pulling the wire along. The traveling wheel effectively hauled two lengths of the same wire (running above and under the traveling wheel) across the gap at a time. The lengths of wire were collected and bound at intervals to form thicker strands, which were later compressed together into the main cables, supporting themselves and later the proportional weight of the bridge as they were formed. The method became the standard for suspension bridge construction, and remained unchanged for many years. In the 20th century, suspension bridges were still built with this pulley winding system, albeit with more sophisticated equipment.\nRoebling was a contrasting character to Charles Ellet. Whereas Ellet embellished his proposals with fanciful words and deeds, Roebling presented papers filled with meticulous calculations and drawings. The elder engineer was stern and driven to achieve, taking a scientific approach to all interests. Rarely did he show emotions in his dealings, even to his closest associates. However, he dared to confront his detractors and make bold exaltations about his work. He openly called European suspension bridges—including American suspension bridges built with European techniques—weak, and occasionally sniped at Ellet's and Stephenson's works. He announced that his Brooklyn Bridge, when completed, \"will not only be the greatest bridge in existence, but it will be the greatest engineering work of this continent, and of the age.\" Roebling's history with Ellet started before the bidding for the Niagara Suspension Bridge, early in their careers. During the bidding for the Schuylkill Suspension Bridge project, Ellet had written a proposal that was published in the \"American Railroad Journal\". Mistakenly believing Ellet had won the contract, Roebling wrote to offer his congratulations and requested to be Ellet's assistant. He received a formal reply without any reference to his request, and his subsequent letter was ignored. When Roebling learned that a contractor had won the bid, he successfully applied to be the contractor's chief engineer. Ellet, however, persisted with his tactics and snatched the project away from the contractor; he promoted himself to the bridge company and offered to accept land instead of cash as payment. From then on, Ellet and Roebling became rivals, vying with each other for suspension bridge projects in North America. Roebling learned from their rivalry. His losses to Ellet showed him that he needed to promote himself and gain backers to effectively secure the contracts he desired.\n\nWhen Roebling was called to the Niagara Suspension Bridge project in 1851, he had six suspension structures to his name. He found Ellet's final plan to be impractical; the bridge would have been too heavy and expensive. Roebling had another design in mind: the double-deck bridge he had proposed earlier during the bidding. The lower deck, level with the edge of the chasm, would convey passengers and carriages, and the upper deck, above, would allow fully laden trains to continue their journeys non-stop, albeit at a speed of . Roebling reasoned that the decks and sufficient trusses would form a rigid tube, making the bridge stiffer than a normal suspension bridge. The theory was similar to that of the tubular bridge but implemented at a lower cost. The engineering community was critical of Roebling's project. Robert Stephenson, builder of the tubular Britannia Bridge, was among those shortlisted to complete the Niagara Suspension Bridge before Roebling's selection. Stephenson had submitted a design for a tubular bridge, and in 1859 he built a large and expensive tubular bridge for the Grand Trunk Railway at Montreal, Quebec. The bridge builder then said in derision of Roebling's suspension railway, \"If your bridge succeeds, mine is a magnificent blunder.\"\n\nIn the face of criticism, Roebling completed the project in four years, using Ellet's bridge as scaffolding. The railway deck was stress-tested by the crossing of the steam engine \"London\" at a speed of on March 8, 1855. Ten days later the upper deck of the bridge was officially opened; the lower deck had been opened to the public a year earlier. As the first commercial passenger train trundled over the bridge, the two countries were finally connected by railroad across the Niagara River. The successful crossings of these and later trains made Roebling's Suspension Bridge the first working suspension railway bridge in history.\n\nRoebling's bridge was supported by two limestone towers on each side of the gorge. These Egyptian-style towers stood tall on the American shore and tall on the Canadian shore. With their foundations in the earth, the limestone structures could support up to 12 million pounds (5.4 million kg). Four thick main cables held up the bridge; two cables ran through iron saddles at the top of each tower. Each cable comprised 3,059 wires that were spun with Roebling's patented technique used in his Allegheny Suspension Aqueduct. The ends of each cable were secured to cast-iron plates sunk deep in the bedrock. Support lines hung down from iron clamps that encircled the main cables, and held up the decks. Deep trusses—never before seen on a large suspension bridge—lined the sides of the bridge, and joined the two decks so that the structure looked like a cage. The trussed sides and the upper and lower decks, which spanned , formed a \"hollow straight beam,\" reinforcing the rigidity of the bridge.\n\nThe Suspension Bridge was further stiffened by guy-wires which ran from its upper deck to the top of its towers. Criticism of suspension bridges was growing after the Wheeling Suspension Bridge collapsed under strong winds in 1854. To address these concerns, Roebling added more guy-wires to secure the lower deck to the shores below. Roebling's efforts ensured that his Suspension Bridge remained standing while other suspension bridges across the Niagara River collapsed because of strong winds. Although he was not the first engineer to appreciate the need for a suspension bridge to be sufficiently rigid or to implement the methods to do so, Roebling was the first to understand the principles behind the methods and combine them in the building of a suspension bridge. Roebling proved that despite popular opinion, properly built suspension bridges can safely support the passage of heavy railway traffic. His combination of stiffening methods created the first modern suspension bridge. Such was the rigidity of the Suspension Bridge that it withstood the shockwave caused by the nearby fall of a mass of rock in 1863; the force of the impact manifested itself as a wave, rippling through the decks of the bridge from the American side to the Canadian side and back.\n\nFrom the United States, the New York and Erie Rail Road's Canandaigua and Niagara Falls Railroad and New York Central Railroad's Buffalo and Niagara Falls Railroad crossed over the bridge and reached into Ontario. Similarly, the Great Western Railway in Canada extended its network from Canada into New York. At the time of the bridge's opening, the three railroads were of different gauges: on the New York Central, on the Great Western, and on the Erie. Instead of accommodating three railways side-by-side on a single wide deck, the bridge saved space by overlapping the tracks over each other. This method used only four rails; one pair formed the track for one railway, and the other pair formed another. One rail from each pair would then form the final track. In the first year of the bridge's operation, an average of 30 trains trundled across it each day. Five years later, 45 trains passed over the structure daily.\n\nRoebling mandated that the trains be limited to a maximum speed of to ensure absolute safety. He was confident the bridge could handle faster train traffic, but he preferred a safe operation. In his tests the bridge supported a train, bending under the weight. This was within the maximum load of specified in the design of the bridge. The figure was a conservative estimate. The cables and guy-wires could support , and travel journalist Alfred J. Pairpoint commented that it was normal to see trains pass over the bridge without danger. The bridge shook whenever a train trundled over it, although this had no effect on its integrity. When the frequency of passing trains was high, the trembling was noticeable to travelers on the lower deck and proved uncomfortable to some; writer Mark Twain noted, \"You drive over to Suspension Bridge and divide your misery between the chances of smashing down two hundred feet into the river below, and the chances of having a railway-train overhead smashing down onto you. Either possibility is discomforting taken by itself, but, mixed together, they amount in the aggregate to positive unhappiness.\" Despite such commentaries, thousands of people crossed over the bridge safely every day.\nAmerican engineers regard the Suspension Bridge as a major achievement of efficiency. In a fledgling country where resources—material and financial—were limited, they had to make do with whatever was available. This goal was espoused by the American Society of Civil Engineers, which opined, \"That is the best engineering, not which makes the most splendid, or even the most perfect work, but that which makes a work that answers the purpose well, at the least cost.\" Roebling had built a bridge that rivaled grander bridges of leading European nations at a much lower cost. His Suspension Bridge used only one-sixth the material of Stephenson's Brittania Bridge, but was twice as long and had a capacity that exceeded the tubular bridge. Moreover, the expenditure on Roebling's Suspension Bridge was $400,000, whereas a tubular bridge of equivalent length and load-bearing capability would have cost $4 million. Roebling's success established him as the master of suspension bridges. The inclined guy-wires that stretched from the top of towers to the roadway of the Suspension Bridge became the signature of his future works.\n\nAlthough the Suspension Bridge proved that the suspension system could be safely used to carry railroads, no more suspension railway bridges were built. The outbreak of the American Civil War diverted attention from such civil engineering ventures, and by the time attention was paid to building bridges again, cantilever bridges were in vogue for railway bridges. Regardless, the Suspension Bridge's success made it a model for suspension railway bridges. When the city of Quebec called for a structure to span the St. Lawrence River in 1850, it looked to the Suspension Bridge for inspiration. Seventeen years later, the British journal \"Engineering\" called for a suspension railway to bridge the Straits of Messina and also referred to Roebling's bridge. Lastly, Charles B. Stuart opened his 1871 work on the history of American engineering, \"Lives and Works of Civil and Military Engineering in America\", with an illustration of the bridge.\n\nAs a border crossing between two large growing countries, the Suspension Bridge had throngs of travelers passing over it. Furthermore, it was the intersection of three major railroads. Coupled with its vicinity to a natural wonder, the Niagara Falls, the bridge brought a lot of railroad traffic into the region once it was opened. The towns at the ends of the bridge benefited greatly from this heavy movement of people and goods. The village of Suspension Bridge, United States, grew quickly within a few years after the opening of the bridge, acquiring shops, factories, and a hotel. Its tourism and commerce soon rivaled the town of Niagara Falls, New York; eventually, the village was merged into the town in 1892. Similarly, Clifton on the Canadian end of the bridge was integrated into the town of Niagara Falls, Ontario. The two Niagara Falls cities boasted commerce that surpassed neighboring settlements. Around the time of its official opening, the bridge was one of the busiest points of trade on the United States-Canada border, carrying $12 million of transitory goods and $2 million of bonded materials into Canada. To handle the large amount of goods exchanged over the border, the Lewiston customs house—the primary customs for the Niagara region—was relocated to the Niagara Suspension Bridge in 1863.\nThe bridge's depiction as an engineering marvel and beautiful sight lured many visitors to the Falls. Travelers could, while crossing the bridge, enjoy a view of the Falls enhanced by the sensation of standing in the air. The Falls, however, proved distant and indistinct to some when there was overcast weather. On the whole, the Suspension Bridge was considered as an attraction that must be seen by visitors to Niagara Falls. In paintings and prints of the bridge, the Suspension Bridge became the focus, pushing the Falls into the background. Unlike paintings of the Falls that capture the viewer's eye with their majestic views of the natural wonder, pictures of the bridge impressed viewers with the utilitarian design of the structure. By 1897, the inbound trains to Niagara Falls brought 276,900 visitors during the months of May to August. A streetcar system was established in 1882 to handle the increasing cross-border pedestrian traffic. Initially pulled by horses, the trolleys were converted to run on electricity in 1892. The Suspension Bridge was the pride and symbol of the Great Western Railway, which touted it as the \"only Route via Niagara Falls & Suspension Bridge.\"\nTravelers on the Suspension Bridge witnessed several death-defying stunts performed across the Niagara Gorge. On June 30, 1859, they saw Charles Blondin's feat of becoming the first man to cross the chasm on a tightrope. In mid-crossing Blondin sat down on the rope and lowered a line to retrieve a drink from the deck of the \"Maid of the Mist\" below. In his later tightrope acts at the same spot, the acrobat would perform a different stunt on each occasion. One time he cooked and ate an omelette in mid-crossing; another time he carried his manager Harry Colcord on his back. While giving Colcord a piggyback ride, Blondin stopped five times on the tightrope to rest and recover his strength; each time Colcord gingerly got off Blondin's back and stood on the tightrope, climbing back on after the acrobat had enough rest. Blondin's success inspired other acrobats, such as William Leonard Hunt (\"The Great Farini\"), Samuel Dixon, Clifford Calverly, and Signorina Maria Spelterini, to emulate and try to surpass his acts at the same spot. The Signorina, the only woman to walk across the Niagara on a tightrope, once crossed while blindfolded and another time with her hands and legs in manacles.\n\nAnother group of people in America had their own risky crossings over the Niagara Gorge as they fled over the border into Canada. They were enslaved African-Americans who sought freedom by escaping to a country that declared the liberation of any slave who entered it. The bridge was part of the Underground Railroad, a network of routes designed to smuggle slaves in the United States to freedom in Canada. Before the American Civil War, fleeing slaves had only four main routes into Canada, of which one was crossing the Niagara River. Enslaved people who escaped along the Niagara route had help from several quarters. The state of New York generally favored granting freedom to enslaved people; this attitude emboldened African-American workers in Niagara, who frequently helped slaves flee to Canada. Before the Suspension Bridge was completed, fugitives either crossed the raging river on a boat or risked their lives by swimming at calmer points of the river. The Suspension Bridge made escape across the river easier and safer, although there was still risk. To avoid getting caught and sent back to their owners, enslaved people had to sneak across on foot or hide aboard trains and oxcarts. Antislavery activist Harriet Tubman guided fugitives at night and bribed custom officials to turn a blind eye. As a result, many slaves crossed the Suspension Bridge to freedom before the United States was engulfed in civil war.\n\nWhen the American Civil War ended and the United States turned its focus toward rebuilding, Roebling started building his Brooklyn Bridge. As the monumental task could affect naval navigation, it required state approval, and the government wanted a thorough review of the engineer's credentials; hence, a Bridge Party was organized. Comprising Roebling and his son, as well as their fellow bridge engineers, generals, businessmen, and high society figures, the party toured the country to review four bridges Roebling had built before the civil war. The final item on their itinerary was Roebling's Niagara Suspension Bridge. At the dinner to commemorate the end of the bridge tour, civil war veteran General Henry Warner Slocum gave a toast and called the Suspension Bridge a symbol of inspiration for the United States in its rebuilding efforts. This sentiment was shared by the guests and was expressed at later dinners across the United States. The achievement of building a large suspension bridge over a gorge in the face of overwhelming adversity—constant put-downs by the professional community, American and European—gave the United States a sense of pride. Nationalism rose as the country lauded the bridge. The completion of the bridge that had been deemed impossible by the Western world gave Americans, who had lesser technical accomplishments than Europe at that time, a trophy that stood above any other. The Suspension Bridge became the American symbol to brave the toughest of challenges and do the impossible, pushing their drive for industrialization even harder. Charles W. Woodman specifically drew attention to the Suspension Bridge in his 1865 address to the United States Senate for approval to build a rail system to transport a ship out of the water and up around the Niagara Falls.\n\nBudget concerns forced Roebling to build the Suspension Bridge primarily with wood; the cost of casting the components out of iron and transporting them \"[way] out West\" was exorbitant. The organic material decayed and rotted because of the moisture present around Niagara Falls. As the industrialization of the United States moved forward rapidly, the introduction of the Bessemer process greatly lowered the cost of the more durable steel and iron. By 1880, the Suspension Bridge's wooden trusses, beams, and flooring were replaced with steel. The wire cables were not replaced; their cores were still in pristine condition. The outer layer of wires in the cables was, however, lightly corroded and had to be replaced. Due to severe deterioration, the limestone towers were replaced in 1886 with steel framed versions. These renovations increased the bridge's strength and helped it handle heavier loads for a few more years.\nThe weight of trains in North America had greatly increased by the mid-1890s. Larger and more powerful locomotives were required to pull cars that handled an increasing number of passengers and goods; compared to the locomotives crossing the bridge in the 1850s, locomotives were the common engines 40 years later. The weight of these trains exceeded the specifications of the Suspension Bridge, and the bridge companies took the opportunity to review and request the replacement of the bridge. Civil engineer Leffert L. Buck, who had been hired to maintain the Suspension Bridge, was selected to design the replacement bridge. He settled for a bridge of the arch design. At that time, arch bridges were the new models for railway bridges and were more cost-efficient than suspension bridges. Buck built the new bridge around and below the Suspension Bridge, replacing it a piece at a time. His plan allowed bridge traffic—train and pedestrian—to continue without disruption. By August 27, 1897, the last pieces of the Suspension Bridge were dismantled, leaving the Lower Steel Arch Bridge—later renamed the Whirlpool Rapids Bridge—in its stead. On inspection, the cores of the cables that formerly held up the Suspension Bridge were found to be as sound as on the day the bridge was built.\n\nPrimary sources\n\nSecondary sources\n\n"}
{"id": "2239191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239191", "title": "3Server", "text": "3Server\n\nThe 3Com 3Server was a headless dedicated network-attached storage machine designed to run 3Com local area network (LAN) server software, 3+Share.\n\nThe companion product was the diskless 3Station network workstation, a dedicated client machine. However, 3Servers could also network with standard PC-compatibles and were commonly used in this role. Having no display other than a small one-line LCD and no keyboard or mouse interface, 3Servers were controlled via another PC on the network which allowed console access to the internal server software.\n\nThe original 3Server was a x86 computer that wasn't compatible with any ordinary PC based on an Intel 80186 CPU, running a special version of MS-DOS and 3Com's proprietary 3+Share network server software. This was a multitasking network server stack that ran on top of single-tasking DOS. Internally, it had a network stack, file and print server modules, disk caching, user handling and more, all running simultaneously inside the DOS memory space. Because they were not limited by the PC memory map, 3Servers could support 1 megabyte of flat memory, breaking the PC's 640 kB barrier. This was a large amount of RAM for the time. \n\nThe original 3Server shipped in 1985 with of RAM and a single hard disk. It had slots for adding six additional drives, making it one of the first network attached storage (NAS) arrays. It supported both Ethernet (then branded EtherSeries) and AppleTalk and was quick to add IBM token ring as well. The 3Server/70, introduced in July 1985, doubled the storage space to The 3Server/500 was a 80386-based version introduced in the late 1980s, with the 80486-based 3Server/600 introduced in 1991.\n\nThe last models, the 3Server386 family, ran OS/2 1.3 as the basic operating system, using 3+Open, a variant of OS/2 LAN Manager. 3Com's version was an enhancement of the basic LAN Manager package, also sold by Microsoft and IBM and on other operating systems - for example, running on VAX/VMS it was the basis of DEC Pathworks.\n\nIn February, 1991, 3Com announced that it would hand over all rights to LAN Manager, 3+Open, its Macintosh and NetWare integration, and related software to Microsoft. The company soon exited the network server business as well.\n"}
{"id": "2239194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239194", "title": "EM TV", "text": "EM TV\n\nEMTV is a commercial television station in Papua New Guinea. Until the launch of the National Television Service in September 2008, it was the country's only free to air television service.\n\nIt is owned by Telikom PNG through a subsidiary Media Niugini. It was previously owned by Fiji Television Limited and Nine Network Australia.\n\nThe station commenced broadcasting in July 1987 in Port Moresby. In April 1988, the station opened relays in Lae, Mt. Hagen, Goroka, Arawa and Rabaul. The next year, the Post and Telecommunications Department (PTC) made a microwave bearer available for live transmission in Lae, Mt. Hagen, Goroka and Madang.\n\nIn November 1993, EMTV moved off the PTC's bearer, and transferred program distribution to a satellite system. The current satellite footprint allows the signal to be seen within all of PNG, and as far away as Pakistan, India, Australia, New Zealand and Fiji.\n\nToday, EM TV operates two transmitters in Port Moresby, and leases and maintains six downlink and retransmission centres in Lae, Rabaul, Mt Hagen, Goroka, Madang and Kavieng. Other groups such as mine sites, cable operators and local community groups have set up their own satellite receivers and redistribute the signal in areas such as Pogera, Ok Tedi (Tabubil), Misima, Lihir, Kutubu, Wewak, Kimbe, Popondetta, Manus and many other smaller areas.\n\nEMTV was previously owned by the Nine Network Australia, from where most of its shows, idents, slogans and ads were sourced. One of the most recognisable Nine Network affiliteship flag was EMTV's 2004 ident, which used Nine's 'Still the One' music, first used by ABC in the United States in 1976. This ident is still in use today, despite EMTV dropping its affiliateship with Nine in late 2006 when it was sold to Fiji Television Limited, leading to a slowdown in the network's quality of television, and the dropping of Nine's American television lineup. EMTV continues to host many shows produced by Nine, as it still shows Nine's Australian shows through 2009, including Domestic Blitz, the Today Show, and RPA.\n\nAfter the split, EMTV began showing other shows such as The Simpsons, Grey's Anatomy, Army Wives, Neighbours and 24, which are held by Nine's rivals, Network Ten and the Seven Network.\n\nThere was speculation that Nine would reincorporate EMTV back into Publishing and Broadcasting Limited to compete with the Australian Broadcasting Corporation run Australia Network, which is shown across the Asia-Pacific Region.\n\nEMTV's news flagship is National EMTV News, which uses a simple version of Nine's 2004 news graphics and is telecast daily from 6pm. They show locally made news reports, and reports from Nine News Australia. Being Papua New Guinea's only commercial station, EMTV controls a major aspect of news in the country.\nEMTV also shows Nine's Today Show and A Current Affair on weekdays.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239197", "title": "Two-factor theory of emotion", "text": "Two-factor theory of emotion\n\nThe two-factor theory of emotion, states that emotion is based on two factors: physiological arousal and cognitive label. The theory was created by researchers Stanley Schachter and Jerome E. Singer. According to the theory, when an emotion is felt, a physiological arousal occurs and the person uses the immediate environment to search for emotional cues to label the physiological arousal. This can sometimes cause misinterpretations of emotions based on the body's physiological state. When the brain does not know why it feels an emotion it relies on external stimulation for cues on how to label the emotion.\n\nStanley Schachter and Jerome E. Singer (1962) performed a study that tested how people use clues in their environment to explain physiological changes. Their hypotheses were:\n\nParticipants were told they were being injected with a new drug called \"Suproxin\" to test their eyesight. The participants were actually injected with epinephrine (which causes respiration, an increase in blood pressure and heart rate) or a placebo. There were four conditions that participants were randomly placed in: epinephrine informed, epinephrine ignorant, epinephrine misinformed and a control group. The epinephrine informed group was told they may feel side effects including that their hands would start to shake, their heart will start to pound, and their face may get warm and flushed. This condition was expected to use cues to explain their physiological change. In the epinephrine ignorant group, the experimenters did not explain to the subjects what symptoms they might feel. This group was expected to use cues to explain their physiological change. The epinephrine misinformed group was told that they would probably feel their feet go numb, and have an itching sensation over parts of their body, and a slight headache. This group was expected to use cues around them for their physiological change. The control group was injected with a placebo and was given no side effects to expect. This group was used as a control because they were not experiencing a physiological change and have no emotion of label. After the injection, a confederate interacted with the students, who was either acting euphoric or angry. The experimenters watched through a one way mirror and rated the participants' state on a three category scale. The participants were then given a questionnaire and their heart rate was checked.\n\nThe researchers found that the impact of the confederate was different for the participants in the different conditions. From high to low euphoria their ranking was as follows: epinephrine misinformed, epinephrine ignorant, placebo, epinephrine informed. In the anger condition the ranking was: epinephrine ignorant, placebo, epinephrine informed. Both results show that those participants who had no explanation of why their body felt as it did, were more susceptible to the confederate. These findings are considered to support the researchers' hypotheses.\n\nThe misattribution of arousal study tested Schachter and Singer's two-factor theory of emotion. Psychologists Donald G. Dutton and Arthur P. Aron wanted to use a natural setting that would induce physiological arousal. In this experiment, they had male participants walk across two different styles of bridges. One bridge was a very scary (arousing) suspension bridge, which was very narrow and suspended above a deep ravine. The second bridge was much safer and more stable than the first.\n\nAt the end of each bridge an attractive female experimenter met the [male] participants. She gave the participants a questionnaire which included an ambiguous picture to describe and her number to call if they had any further questions. The idea of this study was to find which group of males were more likely to call the female experimenter and to measure the sexual content of the stories the men wrote after crossing one of the bridges. They found that the men who walked across the scary bridge were more likely to call the woman to follow up on the study, and that their stories had more sexual content. \nThe two-factor theory would say that this is because they had transferred (misattributed) their arousal from fear or anxiety on the suspension bridge to higher levels of sexual feeling towards the female experimenter.\n\nIn the Schachter & Wheeler (1962) study the subjects were injected with epinephrine, chlorpromazine, or a placebo (chlorpromazine is a tranquilizer). None of the subjects had any information about the injection. After receiving the injection, the subjects watched a short comical movie. While watching the movie, the subjects were monitored for signs of humor. After the movie was watched, the subjects rated how funny the movie was and if they enjoyed. The results concluded that the epinephrine subjects demonstrated the most signs of humor. The placebo subjects demonstrated fewer reactions of humor but more than the chlorpromazine subjects.\n\nCriticism of the theory has come from attempted replications of the Schachter and Singer (1962) study. Marshall and Zimbardo (1979, and Marshall 1976) tried to replicate the Schachter and Singer’s euphoria conditions. Just as Schachter and Singer did, the subjects were injected with epinephrine or a placebo, except the administrator told the subjects that they will be experiencing non-arousal symptoms. Then the subjects were put into four different conditions: subjects injected epinephrine and were exposed to a neutral confederate, another in which they received the placebo and were told to expect arousal symptoms, and two conditions in which the dosage of epinephrine was determined by body weight rather than being fixed. The results found that euphoria confederate had little impact on the subjects. Also, that the euphoric confederate didn’t produce any more euphoria than the neutral confederate did. Concluding that the subjects who were injected with epinephrine were not more susceptible to emotional manipulations than the non-aroused placebo subjects.\n\nMaslach (1979) designed a study to try to replicate and extend on the Schachter and Singer study. Instead of being injected with epinephrine, the administrators used hypnotic suggestions for the source of arousal. Either the subjects were hypnotized or were used as a control (same as the placebo effect in the Schachter and Singer study). Subjects that were hypnotized were given a suggestion to become aroused at the presentation of a cue and were instructed not to remember the source of this arousal. Right after the subjects had been hypnotized, a confederate began acting either in a euphoric or angry condition. Later on in the study the subjects were exposed to two more euphoric confederates. One confederate was to keep aware the source of the arousal, while the other confederates told the subjects to expect different arousal symptoms.\nThe results found that all the subjects both on self-reports and on observation found that unexplained arousal causes negative conditions. Subjects still showed angry emotions regardless of the euphoric confederate. Maslach concluded that when there is a lack of explanation for an arousal it will cause a negative emotion, which will evoke either anger or fear. However, Maslach did mention a limitation that there might have been more negative emotion self-reported because there are more terms referring to negative emotions than to positive ones.\n\nThere are also criticisms of the two-factor theory that come from a theoretical standpoint. One of these criticisms is that the Schachter-Singer Theory centers primarily on the autonomic nervous system and provides no account of the emotional process within the central nervous system aside from signaling the role of cognitive factors. This is important considering the heavy implication of certain brain centers in mitigating emotional experience (e.g., fear and the amygdala).\n\nIt can also be noted that Gregorio Marañon also had early studies in the development of cognitive theories of emotion and should be recognized for making contributions to this concept.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239205", "title": "Job Services Australia", "text": "Job Services Australia\n\nJob Services Australia (formerly known as the \"Job Network\") was an Australian Government-funded network of organisations (private and community, and originally also government) that are contracted by the Australian Government, through the Department of Education, Employment and Workplace Relations (DEEWR), to deliver employment services to unemployed job seekers on Government income support payments and employers. It was replaced by the Jobactive program on 1 July 2015.\n\nJob Services Australia providers are initially selected for the network and allocated business through a competitive public tender process, with contract periods running for varying lengths of time determined by the Australian Government. There are over 1,000 sites across Australia delivering Job Services Australia. These sites are managed by DEEWR.\n\nTo be eligible for support, people need to be in receipt of eligible income support payments, such as Newstart Allowance, Youth Allowance, the Disability Support Pension or Parenting Payment.\n\nJob Services Australia began in 1998 as \"Job Network\" after the dissolution of the Commonwealth Employment Service (CES). In 1996–97, the Australian Federal Parliament passed legislation to combine the functions of the CES and the Department of Social Security. As a result, Centrelink was created to provide monetary welfare support to people across Australia. The delivery of employment services was tendered out to Job Network organisations whose primary responsibility was to assist people into work.\n\nIn 2009, the Rudd Government renamed the program \"Job Services Australia\".\n\nJob Services Australia is a competitive industry with organisations competing for contracts through tenders. Job Services Australia is currently in its first deed period.\n\nThe services provided by Job Services Australia differ according to the level of disadvantage of the job seeker, circumstances or the allowance they are receiving from Centrelink. Services include:\n\n\n\nJob Services Australia agencies are rated by DEEWR every six months (or milestone) on performance, based on placing clients into work and keeping them employed for 13 and/or 26 weeks. A Star Rating system is used, ranging from one to five stars; five stars indicate the highest level of performance.\n\nThe ratings are calculated using a regression model that looks at the number of jobs or outcomes that a site has achieved. As the details of the model have not been released, agencies are often unsure what their next rating will be.\n\nThe peak industry bodies for Job Services Australia members are National Employment Services Association (NESA), which represents all employment and employment related service providers, and Jobs Australia, which represents the not-for-profit sector. These bodies represent the needs and wishes of the employment services sector to the Australian Government. Professional development within the industry is provided by organisations including NESA and others such as Diversity@Work, Duality, Job Services Central and Work Savvy Parents to ensure staff are up to date with policies and procedures.\n\nDEEWR provides free software for use in JSA called ESS. Other organisations have created other software for use in the industry.\n"}
{"id": "2239207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239207", "title": "Sinugra", "text": "Sinugra\n\nSinugra (also spelled Shinoogra / Sinogra / Sinougra) is a village 7 km from the town of Anjar, in the Anjar taluka of Kutch district in the Indian state of Gujarat.\n\nThe village is one of the eighteen villages founded by Mistris of Kutch in late 12th century.\n\nThere is a limestone mine which located across the hill named \"Topi dungar\" behind the Sinugra village. Also the Sang river, which rises from this hill behind village serves the water needs of village. The river flows through other parts of Anjar taluka.\n\nThe village boasted of 200 odd houses made by rich Mistri families, ornate facades, intricate door carvings and metal grill windows and verandah depicting life of Queen Victoria. There were also huge wall and Ceiling paintings depicting scenes from Mahabharata & Ramayana. The village like other Mistri Village was well planned by Mistris, who were master-planners themselves, having wide main roads and streets and other infrastructure, temples, ponds, wells and was unique in its heritage. Sinugra was known as Pride of Kutch for its unique artistic heritage.\nHowever, most of it was destroyed in the earthquake of 2000. Sinugra Village being very near to Anjar also bore the heavy brunt of the quake and almost all old majestic houses built around 100 years ago were completely destroyed. There was also a good number of human casualty. Some of the old buildings, temples, Chabutro have been since re-constructed but the majestic houses with fine workmanship have been lost.\n\nThe village has primary co-educational school named Seth Khora Ramji Prathmik Shala built by Seth Khora Ramji and brothers in 1910 and therefore, has been named after him.\n\nKuldevi Temples of many clans of these Kutch Gurjar Kshatriya community are also there in this village. For example, Tank clan Mistri community have their Kuldevi Chamunda.\n\nThe Thakor Mandir of Sinugra built by Seth Khora Ramji Chawda, Pachhan Ramji Chawda, Teja Ramji Chawda, Akhai Ramji Chawda, Jetha Lira Jethwa and Khoda Ratna Tank in 1900. It is a remarkable piece of architect with beautiful and colorful carvings of Gods and idols. Further, Jadeshwar Mahadev temple also built by Seth Khora Ramji is worth seeing. The Swaminarayan Temple and Dharamshala are also in the village. A small temple of Ramdev Pir is also there in village. After the earthquake of 26 January 2001 all the temples and Chabutro have been rehabilitated to their past glory by donations from the Kutch Gurjar Kshatriya community.\n\nFurther, a mosque belonging to Mohammedan community is also there.\n\nVillagers enjoy a good drinking water supply, and a steady electricity supply with few power shortages. Telephones are common, and nearly all of the houses have televisions and cable.\n\nThe village entrance has a big Chabutro and welcome gate.\n\nMost of villagers are involved in agriculture, others go to nearby Anjar for their jobs and businesses.\n\nDhamubhai Vadher, was former Sarpanch of this village. Newly elected Sarpanch, is Induben Umakant Vadher.\n\nSinugra is a large village located in Anjar of Kachchh district, Gujarat with total 694 families residing. The Sinugra village has population of 3077 of which 1577 are males while 1500 are females as per Population Census 2011.\n\nIn Sinugra village population of children with age 0-6 is 481 which makes up 15.63% of total population of village. Average Sex Ratio of Sinugra village is 951 which is higher than Gujarat state average of 919. Child Sex Ratio for the Sinugra as per census is 822, lower than Gujarat average of 890.\n\nSinugra village has lower literacy rate compared to Gujarat. In 2011, literacy rate of Sinugra village was 74.08% compared to 78.03% of Gujarat. In Sinugra Male literacy stands at 80.12% while female literacy rate was 67.89%.\n\nAs per constitution of India and Panchyati Raaj Act, Sinugra village is administrated by Sarpanch (Head of Village) who is elected representative of village.\n"}
{"id": "2239208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239208", "title": "Fender Toronado", "text": "Fender Toronado\n\nThe Fender Toronado was an electric guitar made by Fender Musical Instruments Corporation. Introduced at NAMM in 1998, it is a part of the \"Deluxe Series\" of Fenders produced in Mexico, generally to higher specs than most \"Standard\" models.\n\nThe Toronado features two Fender Atomic humbucking pickups, a rosewood fretboard, and four chrome knobs (2 volume and 2 tone). Many models also include a tortoise-shell pickguard. The headstock features the Fender \"spaghetti\" logo and sports vintage style Gotoh/Kluson tuners. The body shape shadows the designs of Fender's Jazzmaster and Jaguar guitars. The Toronado also has a 24.75\" scale length—an unusual feature on a Fender guitar, as this scale length is usually associated with electric guitars manufactured by Gibson.\n\nThe Toronado was reissued in 2004. This reissue has several differences from '98–'03 models, featuring more modern colors like Midnight Blue, Caramel Metallic, Blizzard Pearl and Chrome Red. The pickups are also open-coil as opposed to the covered humbuckers featured on the earlier models. The 2004 models were discontinued in 2006 and are rare due to their short 2-year production span. The Fender Toronado GT HH (05–06) was crafted in Korea, sporting a mahogany body and Seymour Duncan humbuckers rather than Duncan-designed pickups. It was part of Fender's \"Big Block\" series. The guitar came in metallic finishes with a painted headstock and a racing stripe in a reverse L shape going from the left side of the body to the upper right horn. Unlike other variants of the Toronado, it has no pickguard.\n\nFender also made US Special and Highway One Toronado models, featuring Atomic II humbucking pickups or Black Dove P-90 style pickups. These models were available in a number of finishes, including Butterscotch Blonde, Black, Chrome Silver, Pewter Grey Metallic and Crimson Red Transparent. Later models were upgraded to feature a Fender Tech-Tonic one-piece wrap-around bridge and black headstock. Both the US Special and Highway One Toronado models were discontinued in 2004. Also around this time, Fender produced a short run of set neck Toronados out of Korea. The Toronado CT P90 featured a mahogany body with carved maple tops and were available in different sunburst colors. \n\nAs of January 2007, all Toronado variants had been discontinued by Fender.\n\nJanuary 2020 update: Re-released as part of Squier Paranormal Series, MIC scheduled for retail in summer 2020.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239212", "title": "Microsoft BizTalk Server", "text": "Microsoft BizTalk Server\n\nMicrosoft BizTalk Server (or simply \"BizTalk\") is an Inter-Organizational Middleware System (IOMS) \n\nBizTalk Server was previously positioned as both an application server and an . Microsoft changed this strategy when they released the AppFabric server which became their official application server. Research firm Gartner consider Microsoft's offering one of their 'Leaders' for Application Integration Suites. Microsoft has discontinued support for Biztalk as of 31 May 2018 The Azure iPaaS (integration platform as a service) equivalents to BizTalk are API Management, Logic Apps, Service Bus, and Event Grid and between November 21, 2013 and May 31, 2018 included \"Azure BizTalk Services\". The successor to BizTalk 2016 is on the product roadmap and slated for completion approximately 9 months following the general availability of Windows Server 2019.\n\nIn a common scenario, BizTalk enables companies to integrate and manage automated business processes by exchanging business documents such as purchase orders and invoices between disparate applications, within or across organizational boundaries.\n\nDevelopment for BizTalk Server is done through Microsoft Visual Studio. A developer can create transformation maps transforming one message type to another. For example, an XML file can be transformed to SAP IDocs. Messages inside BizTalk are implemented through the XML documents and defined with the XML schemas in XSD standard. Maps are implemented with the XSLT standard. Orchestrations are implemented with the WS-BPEL compatible process language xLANG. Schemas, maps, pipelines and orchestrations are created visually using graphical tools within Microsoft Visual Studio. The additional functionality can be delivered by .NET assemblies that can be called from existing modules—including, for instance, orchestrations, maps, pipelines, business rules.\n\nStarting in 2000, the following versions were released:\n\n\nThe following is an incomplete list of the technical features in the BizTalk Server:\n\nHuman-centric processes cannot be implemented directly with BizTalk Server and need additional applications like Microsoft SharePoint server.\n\nThe BizTalk Server runtime is built on a publish/subscribe architecture, sometimes called \"content-based publish/subscribe\". Messages are published into BizTalk, transformed to the desired format, and then routed to one or more subscribers.\n\nBizTalk makes processing safe by serialization (called \"dehydration\" in Biztalk's terminology) - placing messages into a database while waiting for external events, thus preventing data loss. This architecture binds BizTalk with Microsoft SQL Server. Processing flow can be tracked by administrators using an Administration Console.\nBizTalk supports the transaction flow through the whole line from one customer to another. BizTalk orchestrations also implement long-running transactions.\n\nBizTalk uses adapters for communications with different protocols, message formats, and specific software products. Some of the adapters are: EDI, File, HTTP, SFTP, FTP SMTP, POP3, SOAP, SQL, MSMQ, MLLP, Azure Logic App, Azure API Management, Microsoft SharePoint Server, IBM mainframe zSeries (CICS and IMS) and midrange iSeries (AS/400) server, IBM DB2, IBM WebSphere MQ adapters.\n\nThe WCF Adapter set was added with 2006 R2. It includes: WCF-WSHttp, WCF-BasicHttp, WCF-NetTcp, WCF-NetMsmq, WCF-NetNamedPipe, WCF-Custom, WCF-CustomIsolated adapters. Microsoft also ships a BizTalk Adapter Pack that includes WCF-based adapters for LOB systems. Currently, this includes adapters for SAP and Oracle database, Oracle E-Business Suite, Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL, PeopleSoft Enterprise and Siebel Systems.\n\nAdditional adapters (for Active Directory, for example) are available from third party Microsoft BizTalk core partners.\n"}
{"id": "2239214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239214", "title": "Cairnryan", "text": "Cairnryan\n\nCairnryan (; ) is a village in the historical county of Wigtownshire, Scotland. It lies on the eastern shore of Loch Ryan, north of Stranraer. Two ferry services connecting Scotland and Northern Ireland serve its port.\n\nCairnryan has two ferry terminals connecting Scotland to Northern Ireland. The first, at the south of Cairnryan, opened in 1973, originally operated by Townsend Thoresen and now by P&O Ferries, links Scotland with the port of Larne. Part of this terminal utilises Cairnryan Lighterage Wharf. The second, at Old House Point, just north of Cairnryan, is operated by Stena Line linking to the Port of Belfast in Belfast.\n\nA bus link operated by Wigtownshire Community Transport runs between the P&O Ferries and Stena Line ferry terminals at Cairnryan and Stranraer. Stranraer railway station is approximately 15 minutes walk from the bus stop.\n\nStena Line operate a coach service between the ferry terminal and Ayr railway station to connect with certain sailings to and from Belfast.\n\nCairnryan is a linear settlement, looking across the main A77 road to Loch Ryan. It was established in 1701, when Lochryan House was built, along with many of the houses, in the North End of the village, for workers on the Lochryan Estate. A slate quarry may be seen in the side of the face of the Cairn Hill which overlooks the village, from which the slates for the housing roofs were sourced. Features of the estate included a deer park, and a bowling green. These, along with houses on the shore side of the main road, would make way for the war construction the village would see. Lochryan House was remodelled in the 1820s and the imposing structure, just visible from the main road today, was the result.\n\nInto the 1800s, Cairnryan was an important staging post on the coach route to Ayr, with half a dozen inns along this short stretch of coast. It also achieved a less desirable reputation as a haunt of highwaymen preying on that same passing traffic.\n\nDuring World War II, Cairnryan became No.2 Military Port, with three harbour piers and a military railway, linking the village with nearby Stranraer, all built by the army. This greatly changed Cairnryan village, since, to make room for the railway tracks, all the properties on the loch side of the village were demolished, reducing the local population as the occupiers were re-housed elsewhere.\n\nOf the three piers built, only one pier remains; one being dismantled and the other being destroyed (in an ammunition explosion) shortly after the war. The remaining pier is now in a state of disrepair and is fenced off. Despite this, many anglers use this pier for tope, mackerel, cod, dogfish, mullet and plaice. Another role, during WWII, was the building of some sections for the two Mulberry harbours, the floating ports on which the Allies depended after D-Day.\n\nThousands of troops were based locally, in military camps. At the end of the war, the Atlantic U-boat fleet surrendered in Loch Ryan and was anchored in the port before being towed to the North Channel and scuttled. This activity was codenamed 'Operation Deadlight'. For a period after the war, continuing at least until 1958, the port was used to receive, by rail and Liberty and Victory ships, surplus/time-expired ammunition which was loaded onto army landing craft for disposal at sea. That coming by rail had trucks labelled with the address, \"Davy Jones' Locker, Cairnryan\". Handling and disposal was a hazardous task carried out by 13 Coy Royal Pioneer Corps (based at Quarry Camp, to the rear of Loch Ryan Hotel) which, in the early days, took the lives of several at the port, while the long-term and wider risks of such dumping have only later become more evident.\nIn 1957 and 1958, Cairnryan Lighterage Wharf and the port/jetty were again used in a joint Army/RAF operation called 'Operation Hardrock'. This operation was to build a rocket-tracking station on the remote island of St Kilda, serving the South Uist Missile Range, from where the 'Corporal' missiles were launched. The civil engineering work was carried out by the RAF's 5004 Airfield Construction Squadron, Wellesbourne Mountford. Staffs. Plant and other equipment was transported to/from St. Kilda, using RASC Landing Craft Tanks (LCTs), operated by 76 Sqn RASC (LCT), based at Portsmouth. Military port activity ceased in the early 1960s, when most of the military infrastructure was abandoned, then dismantled, apart from the pier and lighterage wharf.\n\nIn the early 1950s, to the South End of the village, houses for were built at Claddyburn Terrace, which increased the village's population. In the late 1960s, ship breaking became the main industry; the British aircraft carriers HMS \"Centaur\", HMS \"Bulwark\", HMS \"Eagle\", and HMS \"Ark Royal\" were all sent for breaking up, as well as a number of other vessels, including HMS \"Mohawk\" and HMS \"Blake\". As recently as 1990, Soviet Navy submarines were being dismantled for scrap.\n\nIn July 1973, Townsend Thoreson initiated a ro-ro ferry service from Cairnryan to Larne for passengers and cars, using the ship 'Ionic Ferry'. Four months later, the service was extended to commercial vehicles. TT was later taken over by P&O.\n\nP&O Irish Sea continue to depart from Cairnryan, and Stena Line have operated from a new terminal at Old House Point since 2011. This means a major financial investment in the North Channel routes and significant long term security for the village and the wider Loch Ryan Basin.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239215", "title": "New Zealand Young Nationals", "text": "New Zealand Young Nationals\n\nThe New Zealand Young Nationals, more commonly called the Young Nats, is the youth wing of the New Zealand National Party, a centre-right political party in New Zealand, and a member of the International Young Democrat Union.\n\nThe National Party has had a youth section since its inception in 1936, and are a constituted youth wing of the National Party. The Young Nationals have been a strong lobby group inside the National Party, and often at the forefront of policy development being representative as a \"Core Group\" or a \"Policy Action Group\" of the party at varying times. For a short period during the party's earlier years there was a younger section of the National party for pre-teenage members but has since disappeared due to the changing environment of New Zealand politics and society.\n\nPrior to the group being named the Young Nationals, the New Zealand National Party's Youth section was known as the Junior Nationals. In the lead up to the 1949 election, the Wellington branch had 3,500 members and the Auckland branch consisted of 2,500 members. The group hosted a number of community events such as dances, parties, debating/discussion, and Lectures/addresses. In 1967 the group voted to change the name to the Young Nationals as Junior Nationals was seen to have potentially negative connotations. This renamed group attracted members for political reasons rather than social activities like its predecessor. In 1968 the National Party agreed to for two Young Nationals to sit on the party's Dominion Council. 1971 brought upon Young Nationals creating political discussion groups called 'Pol Link's' which enabled the group to research and discuss political issues allowing the National Party to understand the contemporary issues of young generations. In 2015 the Young Nationals claimed to have over 20,000 likes on their Facebook page and over 6,000 official members.\n\nIn 2009, under major changes led by the organisation's governing executive, the Young Nationals were re-organised to serve as a more effective tool for policy activism and campaign activity.\n\nAs of 2011, The Young Nationals are divided into five regions nationwide:\n\n\nEach of these regions are headed by their own Chair and executive group and supervised by a National Executive, elected annually during the National Party Conference.\n\nSome regions of the Young Nationals also may have branches. These include the \"Alfred Street Young Nationals\", which are based in Auckland and considered a counter group to the Princes Street Labour movement and \"VicNats\" which is based around Victoria University. In 2011, the Young Nationals celebrated 75 years as New Zealand's oldest and largest political youth movement.\n\nThe National Executive, are made up of elected members across New Zealand who, set the agenda and leadership for the Young Nationals during the year. There are currently 12 members. They are made of a:\n\n\nThroughout the year each of the five Regions teams have a range of social events. These include, but are not limited to, coffee catch ups with MPs, Social drinks and pub quizzes. Events are usually centred around the academic timetables of the universities in the regions. Additionally, regions will often host Christmas parties and Policy-based events.\n\nFrom time to time the Young Nationals have organised balls. These balls are often held in Auckland and are open to members and non-members alike. The most recent ball was in 2018.\n\nIn 2018, The Young Nationals re-commenced the Young Nats Conference. This conference is an opportunity for members from across the country to network, discuss policy issues and learn to campaign. In 2018, the Conference was held in Nelson, and was followed by a conference in Wellington in 2019 and Queenstown in 2020. \n\nOften the more liberal views of the Young Nationals have been at odds with those of the wider party. The shift in party opinion in areas such as the nuclear ships debate, economic reform, liquor law reform, and anti-discrimination laws has often been influenced by the Young Nationals.\n\nThe Young Nationals, in conjunction with other New Zealand political party youth wings, support the current purchase age for alcohol of 18 years. The Young Nationals lobbied the government in 2012 to keep the drinking age at 18 when the Sale and Supply of Liquor Act Amendment Bill was put by parliament. The Bill successfully passed. This position was reaffirmed in 2018. \n\nIn late 2019, the Young Nationals moved to support pill testing at festivals and concerts. The Young Nationals noted that the position was in support of harm reduction, not a motion in support of drug use.\n\nThe National Party opposes the merging of Regional Polytechnics as legislated by the Sixth Labour Government of New Zealand. The Young Nationals have also supported this position publicly on the basis that polytechnics maintain regional autonomy and polytechnics maintain their assets.\n\nThe Young Nationals have lobbied the New Zealand Government to adopt and pass legislation that would move tertiary Students’ Associations to a system of voluntary membership. Currently, Student Union membership is compulsory in New Zealand for most university students. The Young Nationals, in conjunction with ACT on Campus, \"Free Me\" and other New Zealanders, were successful in winning select committee and subsequently government support to pass a private member's Bill by ACT MP Heather Roy to introduce voluntary membership to student associations in tertiary institutions. The Bill, Education (Freedom of Association) Amendment, was passed into law in September 2011, and took effect in 2012\n\nThe Young Nationals support the creation of an income tax free threshold to assist individuals with the rising cost of living and the re-implementation of 90-day trial periods to increase youth employment.\n\nThe Young Nationals have supported the Zero Carbon Act since 2017 and have lobbied the National Party to support it since then. The Young Nationals have also supported the continuation of a green investment fund and the Implementation of a nationwide riparian management scheme.\n\nThe Young Nationals, as part of their 2020 Policy Platform, support the creation of a contestable mental health first aid training fund to assist those seeking to undertake mental health first aid training programmes in New Zealand and the establishment of a Mental Health and Wellbeing Commission. The Young Nationals were credited by the National Party for their idea on mental health first aid and assistance in early intervention measures. In 2019, the President of the Young Nationals, Sam Stead, and Policy Chair, Andrew Mahoney, presented both in writing and in person their positions on the Mental Health and Wellbeing Commission to the Health Select Committee.\n\nThe Young Nationals support free provision of sanitary items in New Zealand schools.\n\nThe Young Nationals supported the legalisation of same-sex marriage in New Zealand, with members lobbying MPs for this change. The Young Nationals support the banning of gay conversion therapy following membership consultation on the issue after Young Labour and the Young Greens petitioned for a ban.\n\nList of presidents of the Young Nationals:\n\nA number of other former members have taken up prominent roles across a number of sectors, such as Phil O'Reilly as CEO of Business New Zealand, John Marshall QC as President of the New Zealand Law Society and Paul Matheson as Mayor of Nelson.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239217", "title": "Mahikari", "text": "Mahikari\n\nMahikari is a Japanese new religious movement (shinshūkyō) that was founded in 1959 by Yoshikazu Okada (岡田 良一) (1901–1974). The word \"Mahikari\" means \"True (真, ma) Light (光, hikari)\" in Japanese.\n\nThe Mahikari organization was founded based on a revelation dated February 27, 1959. Okada said that this revelation related to the mission of bringing purification to the world and humanity. Thus, he founded the organization, \"L.H. Yokoshi Tomo no Kai\" (陽光子友乃会 – Association of Positive People [children] of Light). In 1963, he registered the organization under the name \"Sekai Mahikari Bunmei Kyodan\" (World Divine Light Organization).\n\nOkada claimed that he received a revelation from the Creator God, Mioya Motosu Mahikari Omikami (\"Great Parent, Great Origin, True Light, Great God\"), or simply, \"Su (主, Lord) God.\" He mentioned his role to pioneer the introduction of the art of True Light, a method of spiritual purification that cleanses the spirit, mind, and body, and serves as an expedient to attaining happiness.\n\nOkada claimed that the world was approaching a time of great upheaval, \"baptism by fire,\" in which humanity will be cleansed through abnormal weather, social turmoil, and so on. He emphasized that humanity had entered this period in earnest from January 1, 1962. Okada said an increase in what he called the spiritual energy of fire would result in phenomena such as flooding, cold snaps, and potable water would becoming increasingly scarce. He said humankind needed to work hastily to develop techniques of turning sea water into drinkable water.\n\nThe holy scriptures of Mahikari consist of \"The Holy Words\" (\"Goseigen\") and \"The Yōkōshi Prayer Book\" (\"Norigotoshū\").\n\nOther religious organizations that have similarities include Oomoto, Sekai Kyūsei Kyō, Tenrikyo, and Konkokyo. For example, in Sekai Kyūsei Kyō, a practice called Johrei (purification of the spirit) is undertaken. A number of practices channel universal energy but it is noted that the emphasis in Mahikari is radiating Light from the Creator God, which purifies the spirit, mind, and body, and is made possible through a divine pendant called Omitama.\n\n\"In a collection of [Okada's] sermons we find a chapter entitled “Light will come from the East,” which explains that the founders of the world's major religions realized their teachings were revealing a part of the ultimate truth, and that eventually teachings disclosing the entire truth would emerge from the East. \n\nThe following organizations (listed in order of establishment date) were influenced by the world-view and practices of Yoshikazu Okada:\n\n\nOffshoots of the above Mahikari organizations include: \"The Light Center\" (Belgium), (1978–1979), \"Suhikari Koha Sekai Shindan\" – nominal membership – 4,500 (2007), \"Yokoshi Tomo No Kai\" (Singapore) (1984), and so on.\n\nSekai Mahikari Bunmei Kyodan (World Divine Light Organization) is the name of the Mahikari organization founded by Yoshikazu Okada, based on \"Yokoshi Tomo no Kai\" (Lucky, Healthy, Association of Sunlight Friends), which was founded in 1959. Yoshikazu Okada was the organization's first spiritual leader (divine name: \"Seio,\" \"Kotama\"). \n\nAfter the founder's passing on June 23, 1974, a dispute surrounding succession arose. The case reached an amicable settlement in which Sakae Sekiguchi (1909–1994) became the leader of Sekai Mahikari Bunmei Kyodan, and Keishu Okada became the leader of Sukyo Mahikari. Sukyo Mahikari established the World Shrine in Takayama in 1984, and Sekai Mahikari Bunmei Kyodan established the \"Su-za World Main Shrine\" in Mount Amagi on the Izu Peninsula on August 23, 1987. On January 3, 1994, the Reverend Seisho (Katsutoshi Sekiguchi (1939–) became the third spiritual leader of the organization.\n\nSukyo Mahikari (崇教真光) is the name of the organization founded by Keishu Okada in 1978, the adopted daughter of Yoshikazu Okada. The Sukyo Mahikari headquarters is located in Takayama City, Gifu Prefecture. Sukyo Mahikari is affiliated with the Hikaru Museum, a museum that was opened in 1999 based on the tenet proclaimed by the founder Kotama Okada, \"The origin of the earth is one, the origin of the universe is one, the origin of humankind is one, and the origin of all religions is one.\" The museum aims to protect and promote local culture as well as foster international exchange and understanding of ancient civilizations. \n\nSuhikari Kōha Sekai Shindan was founded in 1980 by the spiritualist and manga artist Kuroda Minoru (1928– ).<ref> Kuroda is a known for his themes of ghost stories or the curses of spirits. Kuroda had been a follower of Yoshikazu Okada and Sekai Mahikari Bunmei Kyōdan. After Okada's death, Kuroda left that organization and established the \"Shūkyō Dantai Kōrin\" in 1980, registering the group as an independent religious body under the Religious Corporations Law (Shūkyō Hōjinhō). In 1984 the group assumed its current name. Its headquarters are in Hachiōji City, Tokyo.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239226", "title": "Almansa", "text": "Almansa\n\nAlmansa () is a Spanish town and municipality in the province of Albacete, part of the autonomous community of Castile-La Mancha. The name \"Almansa\" stems from the Arabic المنصف (al-manṣaf), \"half way of the road\". The municipality borders with Alicante, Valencia and Murcia. Almansa is famous for its \"Moros y cristianos\" festival from celebrated from the 1st to the 6th of May.\n\nAlmansa is built at the foot of a white limestone crag, which is surmounted by a Moorish castle, and rises abruptly in the midst of a fertile and irrigated plain. About south of the town centre stands an obelisk commemorating the Battle of Almansa fought there on the 25 April 1707 during the War of Spanish Succession, in which a French, Spanish and Irish army under the command of duke of Berwick, a natural son of James II, routed the allied British, Portuguese and \"Spanish\" troops. Annual reenactments of that battle have been formally listed in the Spanish cultural register.\n\nThe Sierra del Mugrón is located within the Almansa city limits.\n\nThe main sightseeing attraction is the 14th-century Castle of Almansa.\n\nThere are other important monuments, such as:\n\n8 km from the city is the reservoir of Almansa, built in 1584. This reservoir is the oldest one in Europe. 12 km from the city is the Sanctuary of Our Lady of Belen (17th century).\n\nTwo pilgrim routes on the Camino de Santiago meet in Almansa. From the south comes the \"Camino de la Lana\" and from the east, the \"Camino de Levante\". The \"Camino de la Lana\" joins Alicante with Burgos, and the \"Camino de Levante\" joins Valencia with Zamora.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239228", "title": "AWA Southern Heavyweight Championship", "text": "AWA Southern Heavyweight Championship\n\nThe AWA Southern Heavyweight Championship was a major professional wrestling title in the Continental Wrestling Association during the 1970s and 1980s. The title is part of a long lineage that was started when the NWA Southern Junior Heavyweight Championship, in use since 1939, was renamed the NWA Southern Heavyweight Championship \"(Memphis version)\" in 1974. The title's name changed again in 1978, when it was renamed the AWA Southern Heavyweight Championship due to a partnership with the American Wrestling Association. It was also called the Mid-Southern Heavyweight Championship in \"Pro Wrestling Illustrated\" and its sister publications, in order for this title to not be confused with Championship Wrestling from Florida's version of the title.\n\nThe title was revived in the United States Wrestling Association from 1989 until 1997 when the USWA closed. It was known as the USWA Southern Heavyweight Championship and later simply the USWA Heavyweight Championship during that time; however, unlike the previous Southern title in Memphis, this one played a secondary role to the USWA Unified World Heavyweight Championship. It was revived in Memphis Championship Wrestling as the MCW Southern Heavyweight Championship in 2000 and 2001. It was later revived and renamed in 2004 for use in Memphis Wrestling as the Memphis Wrestling Southern Heavyweight Championship, where the last recorded champion was Brian Christopher, winning the championship on November 4, 2010 but with no recorded championship matches since then. Memphis Wrestling held their last regular in 2009.\n\nOn October 5, 2019, USA Championship Wrestling is bringing back the Southern Heavyweight Championship with a tournament happening at USA Championship Wrestling's Southern Justice taking place at Oman Arena.\n"}
{"id": "2239229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239229", "title": "Cumann Poblachta na hÉireann", "text": "Cumann Poblachta na hÉireann\n\nCumann Poblachta na hÉireann (; ) was a political party established by the Irish Republican Army in 1936. It existed until 1937. \n\nIt was founded in Barry's Hotel, Dublin, on 7 March 1936, and decided to adopt a policy of absenteeism with regard to taking its seats in Dáil Éireann and the Parliament of Northern Ireland.\n\nThe party was led by prominent IRA members. Paddy McLogan served as party chairman; former IRA chief of staff Andy Cooney was another leading member. Madge Daly (sister of Ned Daly and Kathleen Clarke), Fionna Plunkett (sister of Joseph Plunkett), Seán MacBride, Joseph P. Brennan, Peadar O'Donnell and Moss Twomey were also members. General Eoin O'Duffy attended the founding meeting but never became a member.\n\nIn 1936, during the legislative period of the 8th Dáil, the party ran two candidates in by-elections:\n\nIn the Galway by-election, held in the Galway constituency on 13 August 1936, Count Plunkett ran as a joint Cumann Poblachta na hÉireann/Sinn Féin candidate. Losing his deposit, he polled 2,696 votes (a 4.09 percent share of the vote).\n\nIn the Wexford by-election, held in the Wexford constituency on 17 August 1936, Stephen Hayes polled 1,301 votes (a 2.85 percent share of the vote) and lost his deposit.\n"}
{"id": "2239233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239233", "title": "Black Tigers", "text": "Black Tigers\n\nThe Black Tigers (Tamil: கரும்புலிகள்) were a wing of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE), a militant Tamil separatist organization. They were specially selected and trained LTTE cadres whose missions included mounting suicide attacks, military and political targets, among them Sri Lankan President Ranasinghe Premadasa and former Indian Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. From their formation in 1987 until the defeat of the Tamil Tigers in 2009, more than 330 Black Tigers made suicide attacks on land and sea, mostly in Sri Lanka.\n\nThe first Black Tiger was Vallipuram Vasanthan, who drove a small truck laden with explosives into a Sri Lanka Army (SLA) camp in Nelliady, Jaffna peninsula, on 5 July 1987, killing himself and between 39 and 100 Sri Lankan soldiers. Immediately afterwards, regular LTTE cadres followed up, overwhelming the stunned SLA soldiers. This attack was hugely effective, and proved vital in the dismantling of the Sri Lankan Army's Operation Liberation.\n\nDuring the earlier phase of the Tamil Tigers' military campaign, it did not possess the heavy conventional weapons required to attack large camps. To mount such an attack, costly weapons such as artillery pieces, missiles, and fighter-bombers would have been needed – weapons that the LTTE could not afford to purchase. As a result, they decided to resort to asymmetric warfare, creating a special wing to make up for their inadequate weaponry. Consequently, it is not the act itself—killing by suicide—that was the Black Tigers' original or even main aim, but rather the military impact and its strategic consequences.\n\nAfter 18 May 2009, following the death of LTTE leader Velupillai Prabhakaran, the Black Tigers ceased to exist, along with other LTTE fighting formations.\n\nIn May 1991, a female LTTE cadet blew herself up, killing former Indian Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, along with 16 civilians. On 1 May 1993, another Black Tiger assassinated Sri Lankan President Ranasinghe Premadasa and 23 others during a May Day parade. On July 2001, 14 Black Tigers attacked Bandaranaike International Airport, causing an estimated of US$350 million worth of damage to military and civilian aircraft. Tourism in Sri Lanka sharply dropped after the incident.\n\nBlack Tigers were drawn from the ranks of the LTTE. Those who wanted to join wrote letters to Velupillai Prabhakaran, the founder and leader of the LTTE. According to the LTTE, Prabhakaran evaluated the applications, examining the applicant's particular skills, the kinds of missions he or she had been involved in, their motivations and their family situations. All these factors were considered in deciding whether he or she could become a Black Tiger. Those who were the only living child in family were automatically disqualified from joining.\n\nUp to the defeat of LTTE, the Black Tigers carried out 100 to 200 missions. The Black Tigers operated in three distinct ways: conventional combat on land and at sea, guerrilla attacks, and assassinations or bombings. The majority of these attacks involved military objectives in the north and east of the country. Relatively speaking, there were fewer operations in the south, where most of the Sinhalese live, especially in the capital city, Colombo, although such attacks often engaged high-profile targets and attracted much international publicity as a result. The last such attack was on government politicians during a Muslim festival.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239241", "title": "African Independence Party", "text": "African Independence Party\n\nAfrican Independence Party (in French: \"Parti Africain de l'Indépendance\") was a communist party in French West Africa (AOF). PAI was founded in Thiès, Senegal in 1957. Later as AOF was dissolved into independent countries the local PAI sections became independent parties, often keeping the name PAI.\n\nPAI was the first party in AOF to unequivocally demand independence from French rule.\n\nIn Senegal PAI was banned on August 1, 1960.\n\nIn Senegal the following parties trace/traced their origin back to PAI:\n\nIn Upper Volta/Burkina Faso PAI was established in 1963. PAI attained importance through its mass front Patriotic League for Development (LIPAD). Today LIPAD is dissolved, and PAI has split in two factions:\n\n"}
{"id": "2239249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239249", "title": "Merowe Dam", "text": "Merowe Dam\n\nThe Merowe Dam, also known as Merowe High Dam, Merowe Multi-Purpose Hydro Project or Hamdab Dam, is a large dam near Merowe Town in northern Sudan, about north of the capital Khartoum. Its dimensions make it the largest contemporary hydropower project in Africa. It is situated on the river Nile, close to and inundating the 4th Cataract where the river divides into multiple smaller branches with large islands in between. Merowe is a city about downstream from the construction site at Hamdab. The main purpose for building the dam was the generation of electricity.\n\nThe dam has a length of about and a crest height of up to . It consists of concrete-faced rockfill dams on each river bank (the right bank dam is the largest part of the project, 4.3 km long and 53m high; the left bank is 1590 metres long and 50 metres high), an -long -high earth-core rockfill dam (the 'main dam') in the left river channel, and a live water section in the right river channel (sluices, spillway and a 300-metre power intake dam with turbine housings). It contains a reservoir of , or about 20% of the Nile's annual flow; the intended reservoir level is 300 metres above sea level, with the Nile level downstream of the dam being about 265 metres. The reservoir lake is planned to extend upstream.\n\nThe powerhouse is equipped with ten Francis turbines, each one designed for a nominal discharge rate of 300 cubic metres per second, and each one driving a , synchronous generator. The planners expect an annual electricity yield of , corresponding to an average load of , or 50% of the rated load. To utilize the extra generation capacity, the Sudanese power grid will be upgraded and extended as part of the project, with about of new aerial transmission line across the Bayudah Desert to Atbara, continuing to Omdurman/Khartoum, as well as about of lines eastwards to Port Sudan and westwards along the Nile, connecting to Merowe, Dabba and Dongola.\n\nThe idea of a Nile dam at the 4th cataract is quite old. The authorities of the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan proposed it several times during the first half of the 20th century. It was supposed to equalize the large annual Nile flow fluctuations, create the possibility of growing cotton and provide flood protection for the lower Nile valley. After Sudan achieved independence in 1956, Egypt decided to control the flow of Nile water that reached its own territory by building a dam and creating a reservoir —the Aswan Dam and Nasser Lake.\n\nThe Sudan military government under President Nimeiri revived the plan in 1979, now with the intention of producing hydroelectricity for Sudan's rising demand. The following decade saw international industry and planning offices busy, producing a total of four feasibility studies [1 - Coyne et Bellier, 1979 / Gibb, Merz & McLellan, GB, 1983 / Sweco, SE, 1984 / Monenco Consultants Ltd., CA, 1989]. However, insufficient funding and lack of investor interest effectively stalled the project at the planning stage.\n\nThis appears to have changed fundamentally since the country started exporting oil in commercial quantities in the years 1999/2000. A greatly improved creditworthiness brought an influx of foreign investment, and the contracts for the construction of what is now known as the Merowe Dam project were signed in 2002 and 2003.\n\nThe main contractors are:\n\nBy the time the contracts were signed, the Merowe Dam had been the largest international project the Chinese industry ever participated in.\n\nRiver diversion and work on the concrete dams began in early 2004. The left river channel was closed on 30 December 2005; the project timeline scheduled the reservoir impounding to start in mid-2006 and the first generating unit to go on-line in mid-2007. The dam was inaugurated on March 3, 2009, at which point the reservoir was full and all the hydro-electric generating capacity on-line.\n\nThe total project cost is reported to be $2.945 billion. This can be subdivided into partial amounts for the construction work on the dam itself (ca. 45%), its technical equipment (ca. 25%) and the necessary upgrade of the power transmission system (ca. 30%).\nThe project receives funding from\n\nThe electrification level in Sudan is very low, even by the standards of the region. In 2002, the average Sudanese consumed 58 kWh of electricity per year, i.e., about one fifteenth of their Egyptian neighbors to the north, and less than one hundredth of the OECD average. The capital Khartoum and a few large plantations account for more than two thirds of the country's electric power demand, while most of the rural areas are not connected to the national grid. Many villages use the option of connecting small generators to the ubiquitous diesel-powered irrigation pumps. This way of generating electricity is rather inefficient and expensive.\n\nThe combined grid-connected generating capacity in Sudan was 728 MW in 2002, about 45% hydroelectricity and 55% oil-fired thermal plants. However, the effective capacity has always been a lot lower. The two main facilities, the Sennar (constructed in 1925) and Roseires (1966) dams on the Blue Nile, were originally designed for irrigation purposes rather than power production. Generating units were added during the 1960s and 1970s when the demand for electric power increased, but their power production is often heavily restricted by irrigation needs.\n\nThe government in Khartoum has announced plans to raise the country's electrification level from an estimated 30% to about 90% in the mid-term. Large investments into the medium and low voltage distribution grids will be necessary but not sufficient to reach this ambitious goal: First and foremost, the foreseeable increase in power consumption would require the addition of generating capacity.\nDuring the 1990s, Sudanese electricity customers have already been plagued by frequent blackouts and brownouts due to insufficient generation. Three new thermal power plants went into operation in the Khartoum area in 2004, increasing the installed capacity to 1315 MW. The Merowe dam with its peak output of 1250 MW will almost double this capacity once it comes online.\n\nBefore the construction began, an estimated 55,000 to 70,000 people were resident in the area covered by the reservoir lake, mainly belonging to the Manasir, Hamadab and Amri tribes. They lived in small farming villages along the banks of the Nile and on the islands in the cataract. The whole region was relatively isolated, without paved roads or other infrastructure, and the communities were largely self-sufficient. Except for beans and millet the farmers grew vegetables, both for their own consumption and for trading at the weekly regional markets. However, their main source of income—and their most valuable possession—were the groves of date palms growing in the fertile silt on the river banks.\n\nThe inhabitants of the region to be flooded were forcibly displaced along a timeline corresponding to their land's proximity to the dam site: the people of Hamadab to Al-Multaga in 2003, the people of Amri to Wadi Muqaddam in 2007, and the Manasir to Al-Mokabrab and Al-Fidah in 2008. At the resettlement sites, farmers received plots of land relative in size to their former possessions, in addition to financial compensation for lost assets—houses and date palms. However, a majority preferred to stay near to their old grounds as possible and have thus built at the shores of the new lake. Many families have defied resettlement and live now on the margins of the lake. Farmers have become fishermen, but their income is less than before.\n\nThough government officials claim there are improved living conditions at the resettlement areas, with relatively modern buildings and infrastructure, affected people reject the compensation plans. Their main objections are:\n\nAbout 6,000 people were resettled to the Al-Multaqah site in the Nubian desert during 2003 and 2004. Their villages were the closest to the dam construction site near Hamdab. According to a survey conducted in early 2005, the poverty rate has increased dramatically because the farmers are not able to produce anything saleable in the local markets.\n\nA significant fraction of the Manasir tribe inhabits the desert regions close to the Nile valley. The exact size of this nomadic population is unknown, but it is estimated to be of the same order of magnitude as that of the resident farmers, i.e., tens of thousands. Both groups maintain tight cultural interchanges and trade relations with each other.\n\nOnly the owners of real estate purportedly are covered under the compensation scheme, although reports are that families have been displaced without compensation or adequate provisions for relocation. Nomadic families will not receive any compensation, even though the resettlement of the farming Manasir will deprive them of their symbiotic partners. The consequences for their ability to sustain their lives in a harsh environment remains to be assessed.\n\nUN Special Rapporteur on Adequate Housing Miloon Kothari issued a statement August 27,[2007], calling for a halt to dam construction at Merowe until an independent assessment of the dam's impacts on the more than 60,000 people who stand to be displaced by the dams at Merowe and Kajbar. Kothari stated he has \"received reports that the Merowe reservoir’s water levels have already risen, destroying dozens of homes in the area and putting many more at risk.\"\n\nKothari announced, \"The affected people have claimed that they received no warning that water levels would be raised and that no assistance from Government authorities has been forthcoming since their houses were destroyed.\" According to reports, the Government of Sudan has not honored its promises to those who have been displaced. Kothari noted that, \"thousands of people in the same area were relocated in similar circumstances that left many temporarily without food or shelter, and that some of those people remain homeless today.\" Kothari called upon the Sudanese government to ensure safety and adequate housing to all those affected by the dams and warned the projects \"would lead to large-scale forced evictions and further violence.\"\n\nThe fertile Nile valley has been attracting human settlement for thousands of years. The section between the 4th and 5th cataract—a significant portion of which will be inundated by the reservoir lake—has been densely populated through nearly all periods of (pre)history, but very little archaeological work has ever been conducted in this particular region. Recent surveys have confirmed the richness and diversity of traceable remains, from the Stone Age to the Islamic period.\n\nSeveral foreign institutions have been recently or are currently involved in salvage archaeology in the region under the umbrella Merowe Dam Archaeological Salvage Project (MDASP). Among them are ACACIA project University of Cologne, Gdańsk Archaeological Museum Expedition (GAME), Polish Academy of Sciences, Humboldt University of Berlin, the Italian Institute for Africa and the Orient (IsIAO), the University College London, the Sudan Archaeological Research Society, the Hungarian Meroe Foundation, University of California at Santa Barbara - Arizona State University consortium, and the Oriental Institute Museum of the University of Chicago.\n\nTheir main problems are the shortness of the remaining time and limited funding. Unlike the large UNESCO campaign conducted in Egypt before the completion of the Aswan High Dam, when more than a thousand archaeological sites could be documented and complete buildings were moved to prevent them from drowning in Lake Nasser's floods, work at the 4th cataract is much more restricted.\n\nSince 2006, the archaeologists working for the Merowe Dam Archaeological Salvage Project became accused by environmental and human rights activists as well as the representatives of the affected people of facilitating the political legitimatization of the project. The archaeologists working for the dam project found themselves in an ethical dilemma since they were undertaking salvage excavations while the local people were in opposition to the building of the dam that necessitates both their resettlement and the archaeological campaign.\n\nHistorian Runoko Rashidi issued a statement in solidarity with Sudanese Nubians protesting the dams and called for a halt to their construction.\n\nUsage rights to the waters of the Nile are fixed in the Nile Waters Treaty, negotiated by the British in 1959. It allots 82 percent of the water volume to Egypt, while Sudan is granted the rights to the remaining 18 percent. None of the riparian countries further upstream in the Nile basin—Ethiopia, Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, Kenya and Tanzania—are entitled to any significant use of the water, be it for irrigation (of particular interest to Ethiopia and Kenya) or hydropower (Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda).\n\nAs Sudan now pushes forward to make use of its water allotment, those countries have begun to call for a revision of the treaty, arguing that—with the exception of Ethiopia—they had all been under colonial rule at the time the negotiations took place, and had not been represented in their best interest. Moreover, the decision of distribution of water was made without any negotiations with Ethiopia, which had rejected the agreement and is the source of 90% of the water and 96% of transported sediment of the Nile.\n\nWhile a peace treaty seems to have stopped the fighting in Southern Sudan after almost 20 years, there is no end in sight yet for the civil war in the western Darfur province. More recently, unrest in Nubia as a direct result of the dams and the forced permanent displacement of Nubians from their homelands threatens to erupt into war. A group calling itself the Nubian Liberation Front is threatening armed resistance in order to thwart the series of dams along the Nile, and particularly at Kajbar.\n\nThe resettlement area is a vast area with an expected 50,000–70,000 inhabitants who would be going through a transitional period for a few years before the get acclimatised and psychologically adapted to their new life. Governing by the two eminent health impact experiences of New Halfa resettlement projects and Aswan Dam in Egypt, strategic health planning ought to start early to foresee what water born diseases and other ecological health problems (such as bilharziasis, malaria) are likely to prevail and to plan how to guard against that.\n\nThe creation of the reservoir lake will increase the surface area of the Nile by about 700 km. Under the climatic conditions at the site, additional evaporation losses of up to 1,500,000,000 m per year can be expected. This corresponds to about 8% of the total amount of water allocated to Sudan in the Nile Waters Treaty.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239255", "title": "Gao Shun", "text": "Gao Shun\n\nGao Shun () (died 7 February 199) was a military officer serving the warlord Lü Bu during the late Eastern Han dynasty of China. Although he only had 700 men under his command, his unit was nicknamed as the \"camp crusher (or formation breaker)\" (陷陣營) for its destructive charges. Gao came to be known as Lü Bu's most able commander. His noted accomplishments included conquest of Xiaopei and the subsequent victory over a relief force led by Xiahou Dun, a prominent general under the warlord Cao Cao. In the same year, however, Cao personally laid a siege on Lü Bu's base in Xiapi, and defeated and captured Lü Bu. Gao was then executed along with his lord.\n\nAccording to Pei Songzhi's annotation in Chen Shou's \"Records of the Three Kingdoms,\" Gao Shun, from Shangdang Commandery, was a stern and incorrupt man, with an air of authority and few words. As an unblemished and pure person, Gao refused alcohol and undue gifts. It is also stated in \"Records of Heroes\" (英雄記) by Wang Can that he only commanded 700 men, but his men were considered equivalent to a thousand, and they were a well-equipped, well-trained, and disciplined elite force. Whenever his battalion fought, they were always successful of breaking into enemy formation, and could perform well, even if surrounded by enemies, so they were collectively called the \"camp crusher\".\nZang Ba, the head of the bandit leaders around Mount Tai, attacked and defeated the Chancellor of Langye, Xiao Jian, at Ju County. He then seized Xiao Jian's treasure and provisions, and promised to present them to Lü Bu. When he reneged on his words, however, Lü went to ask for the goods himself. Gao objected: \"Your authority and reputation are known and respected everywhere. How can you ask for something and fail to obtain it? Yet you are going in person to beg for a present. If for some reason you are not successful, you will surely lose face.\" The rapacious Lü could not heed Gao's advice. Indeed, Zang turned Lü Bu down, and the Bandits of Mount Tai no longer listened to Lü's orders.\n\nOne night in 196, a subject of Lü Bu named Hao Meng rebelled. Hao ordered his troops to surround the government office of Xiapi, where Lü Bu resided. The startled Lü had to climb over the wall of a toilet and escape to the camp of Gao Shun. Lü told Gao that the leader of the rebels has a Henei accent, and Gao Shun says that it must be Hao Meng. Gao then led a force to quell the rebellion. By the next morning, Hao Meng and his troops had all been forced to retreat back to their own camp. Cao Xing, a subordinate of Hao Meng, turned on Hao Meng and the two duelled. Cao Xing was injured in the fight but cleaved an arm off of Hao Meng. Gao Shun had also identified the rebels, and arrived at the scene to finish off Hao Meng (who was a man from Henei or captain of the Henei soldiers).\n\nAlthough Lü knew Gao was very loyal, his advice was not always welcome. Furthermore, Lü trusted Gao even less after the incident of Hao Meng. Lü stripped Gao of his commission and reassigned his troops to Wei Xu (魏續), who was Lü's relative. Whenever there was a battle, however, Gao would be reinstated. Despite this treatment, he remained eternally loyal and never bore a grudge against his lord.\n\nLü, whose actions were seldom consistent, made decisions hastily. For that, Gao often remonstrated him by saying, \"When you start something, you never think of the details. Whenever there is a choice between the way to success or the possibility of failure, you always make the wrong decisions!\" Gao went on and said, \"Those who lost their homes and states did not do so because they lacked loyal ministers and wise advisers. They did so because they wouldn't listen to those men. General, you are reluctant to think things through carefully before you act, and thus you commit mistakes, which are too many to count.\" Lü appreciated his loyalty, yet could not follow his advice.\nIn the same year, Lü was threatened by his vassal Liu Bei, who was forced to surrender earlier and was now constantly building up his forces, so he sent Gao to attack Xiaopei, Liu's base, and Gao Shun succeeded in his mission. Liu Bei's new ally, Cao Cao, then sent his trusted general Xiahou Dun to rescue Xiaopei, but the allied forces were again defeated by Gao. In the end, Liu had to desert the city to take shelter under Cao Cao. In the winter of 198, Cao and Liu came back with a sizable army and attacked Lü's base. When the city finally fell on 7 February 199, Gao was captured along with Lü. Showing no fear nor resistance, Gao then saw Cao Cao shifting his attention to him, and guards surrounding Gao hustled him in front of Cao Cao. \"Anything to say?\" Cao Cao asked him. Not wishing to join Cao Cao, Gao remained silent and accepted his fate. Cao Cao then had him executed along with Chen Gong.\n\nThe heads of Lü Bu, Chen Gong, Gao Shun and some of Lü Bu's subordinates were sent to Xuchang where they were buried.\n\nIn the 14th-century historical novel \"Romance of the Three Kingdoms\", Gao Shun was said to have duelled Xiahou Dun during an encounter outside Xiaopei.\n\nAfter forty to fifty bouts, Gao was outmatched and had to retreat. Xiahou Dun urged his mount forward and chased Gao Shun deep into the enemy ranks. Then Cao Xing, a subject of Gao, secretly took aim and fired an arrow at Xiahou Dun. The arrow hit Xiahou Dun in the left eye. With a cry, Xiahou Dun pulled out the arrow along with his eyeball, which he swallowed, filling soldiers on both sides with fear.\n\nHis spear firmly held up, Xiahou Dun then came straight for Cao Xing. With no time to react, Cao Xing was impaled through the face and died beneath his nemesis' horse. Gao Shun then turned and rallied his troops forward to defeat Xiahou Dun.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239257", "title": "Thomas Thomson (chemist)", "text": "Thomas Thomson (chemist)\n\nThomas Thomson (12 April 1773 – 2 August 1852) was a Scottish chemist and mineralogist whose writings contributed to the early spread of Dalton's atomic theory. His scientific accomplishments include the invention of the saccharometer and he gave silicon its current name. He served as president of the Philosophical Society of Glasgow.\n\nThomson was the father of the botanist Thomas Thomson, and the uncle and father-in-law of the Medical Officer of Health Robert Thomson.\n\nThomas Thomson was born in Crieff in Perthshire, on 12 April 1773 the son of John Thomson and his wife, Elizabeth Ewan.\n\nHe was educated at Crieff Parish School and Stirling Burgh School. He then studied for a general degree at the University of St. Andrews to study in classics, mathematics, and natural philosophy from 1787 to 1790. He had a five year break then entered University of Edinburgh to study Medicine in 1795, graduating in 1799. During this latter period he was inspired by his tutor, Professor Joseph Black, to take up the study of chemistry.\nIn 1796, Thomson succeeded his brother, James, as assistant editor of the \"Supplement to the Third Edition of the Encyclopædia Britannica\", contributing the articles \"Chemistry\", \"Mineralogy\", and \"Vegetable, animal and dyeing substances\". In 1802, Thomson used these articles as the basis of his book \"System of Chemistry\". His book \"Elements of Chemistry\", published in 1810, displayed how volumes of different gasses react in a way that is supported by the atomic theory.\n\nIn 1802 he began teaching Chemistry in Edinburgh. In 1805 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. His proposers were Robert Jameson, William Wright, and Thomas Charles Hope.\n\nThomson dabbled in publishing, acted as a consultant to the Scottish excise board, invented the instrument known as Allan's saccharometer, and opposed the geological theories of James Hutton, founding the Wernerian Natural History Society of Edinburgh as a platform in 1808. In March 1811 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society and in 1815 was elected a corresponding member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences. In 1813 he founded \"Annals of Philosophy\" a leader in its field of commercial scientific periodicals.\n\nIn 1817 he gave silicon its present name, rejecting the suggested \"silicium\" because he felt the element had no metallic characteristics, and that it chemically bore a close resemblance to boron and carbon.\n\nIn 1817, Thomson became Lecturer in and subsequently Regius Professor of Chemistry at the University of Glasgow, retiring in 1841. In 1820 he identified a new zeolite mineral, named thomsonite in his honour.\n\nHe lived his final years at 8 Brandon Place in Glasgow but died at Kilmun in Argyllshire in 1852, aged 79, and was buried at Dean Cemetery in Edinburgh but also has a memorial at the Glasgow Necropolis.\n\nIn 1816 he married Agnes Colquhoun.\n\nHe was uncle (and father-in-law) to Robert Dundas Thomson FRSE.\n\n\n\nFrom 1813 to 1822 he was Editor of the \"Annals of Philosophy\".\n\nIn June 2011, Russian artist Alexander Taratynov installed a life-size statue of French architect Thomas de Thomon (1760–1813) in Saint Petersburg. The statue is part of \"The Architects\", a bronze sculptural group depicting the great architects of Russian Empire as commissioned by Gazprom and installed in Alexander Park. In 2018 associate of Shchusev Museum of Architecture Kirill Posternak discovered a mistake. Taratynov admitted he used a picture he found on Wikipedia to base the statue on, and that it was actually an image of the Scottish chemist Thomas Thomson - he blamed Wikipedia for the error but also himself for not checking with a historian to verify it was accurate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239276", "title": "Elephant in Cairo", "text": "Elephant in Cairo\n\nAn elephant in Cairo is a term used in computer programming to describe a piece of data that matches the search criteria purposefully inserted at the end of a search space, in order to make sure the search algorithm terminates; it is a humorous example of a sentinel value. The term derives from a humorous essay circulated on the Internet that was published in \"Byte\" magazine on September 1989, describing how various professions would go about hunting elephants.\n\nWhen hunting elephants, the article describes programmers as following this algorithm:\n\nThis algorithm has a bug, namely a bounds checking error: if no elephants are found, the programmer will continue northwards and end up in the Mediterranean sea, causing abnormal termination by drowning.\n\nThus experienced programmers modify the above algorithm by placing a known elephant in Cairo to ensure that the algorithm will terminate. The modified algorithm is therefore as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239277", "title": "Department of Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs", "text": "Department of Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs\n\nThe Department of Immigration and Multicultural Affairs and Indigenous Affairs (also called DIMIA) was an Australian government department that existed between November 2001 and January 2006. \n\nInformation about the department's functions and/or government funding allocation could be found in the Administrative Arrangements Orders, the annual Portfolio Budget Statements, in the Department's annual reports and on the Department's website.\n\nAccording to the Administrative Arrangements Order (AAO) made on 26 November 2001, the Department dealt with:\n\nOriginally, this department was formed in the Second Howard Ministry when the ministerial portfolio of the Department of Immigration and Multicultural Affairs merged with the Department of Reconciliation and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Affairs. Only two ministers have held this department, Phillip Ruddock and Amanda Vanstone before it was returned to the Department of Immigration and Multicultural Affairs, and the Indigenous portfolio was subsumed in the Department of Families, Housing, Community Services and Indigenous Affairs in the final days of the Howard Government.\n\nIn 2004-05 the Department was responsible for the unlawful 10-month detention of Cornelia Rau, a German citizen and Australian permanent resident as part of the Australian Government's mandatory detention program. Rau's detention became the subject of a government inquiry which was later expanded to investigate over 200 other cases of suspected unlawful detention by DIMIA.\n\nThe Department also ran the Woomera Immigration Reception and Processing Centre, an Australian immigration detention facility near the village of Woomera in South Australia through contract with Australasian Correctional Management (ACM), a subsidiary of Wackenhut Security Corporation. ACM was criticised over various practices, including failing to staff the Centre adequately, and concealing evidence of child abuse. The detention centre was the site of riots, hunger strikes, and lip-sewing, which included children.\n\nThe Department was an Australian Public Service department, staffed by officials who were responsible to the Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs and Indigenous Affairs, Philip Ruddock (until 2003) and then Amanda Vanstone. The Secretary of the Department at its creation was Bill Farmer. Farmer was replaced by Andrew Metcalfe in July 2005, after publicly stating that the Department would benefit from vigorous organisational review and major cultural change, led by a new Secretary.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239282", "title": "Quartermaster Corps (United States Army)", "text": "Quartermaster Corps (United States Army)\n\nThe United States Army Quartermaster Corps, formerly the Quartermaster Department, is a Sustainment, formerly combat service support (CSS), branch of the United States Army. It is also one of three U.S. Army logistics branches, the others being the Transportation Corps and the Ordnance Corps.\n\nThe U.S. Army Quartermaster Corps mission is to support the development, production, acquisition, and sustainment of general supply, Mortuary Affairs, subsistences, petroleum and water, material and distribution management during peace and war to provide combat power to the U.S. Army. The officer in charge of the branch for doctrine, training, and professional development purposes is the Quartermaster General. The current Quartermaster General is Brigadier General Douglas M. McBride.\n\nThe Quartermaster Corps is the U.S. Army's oldest logistics branch, established 16 June 1775. On that date, the Second Continental Congress passed a resolution providing for \"one Quartermaster General of the grand army and a deputy, under him, for the separate army\". \n\nIn 1802 under President Thomas Jefferson the size of the US Army was reduced with the Quartermaster Department being disbanded. In its place the nation was divided into three departments, each with its own agent and subordinates who were responsible for quartermaster functions within each Department The Quartermaster Corps was re-established in 1812.\n\nFrom 1775 to 1912, this organization was known as the Quartermaster Department. In 1912, Congress consolidated the former Subsistence, Pay, and Quartermaster Departments to create the Quartermaster Corps. Quartermaster units and soldiers have served in every U.S. military operation from the Revolutionary War to current operations in Iraq (Operation Iraqi Freedom) and Afghanistan (Operation Enduring Freedom).\n\n\nThe function of the Quartermaster Corps is to provide the following support to the Army:\n\n\nFormer functions and missions of the Quartermaster Corps were:\n\n\nQuartermaster detachments, companies and battalions are normally assigned to corps or higher level commands. Divisions and smaller units have multifunctional support battalions which combine functional areas from the Army Transportation Corps, Army Quartermaster Corps, Army Ordnance Corps, and the Army Medical Service Corps.\n\nQuartermaster organizations include field service, general supply, petroleum supply and petroleum pipeline, aerial delivery (rigger), water, and mortuary affairs units. Most are company level except petroleum and water, which has battalion and group level units.\nThere is one Bulk petroleum Company on Active Duty.\n\nThe nine Quartermaster Enlisted Military Occupational Specialties (MOSs) are:\n\n\nThe five Quartermaster Warrant Officer Military Occupational Specialties (MOSs) are:\n\n\nThe three Quartermaster Officer Areas of Concentration (AOCs) have been merged into 92A as Additional Skill Identifiers (ASIs)\n\n\nThe officer in charge of the branch for doctrine, training, and professional development purposes is the Quartermaster General. The current Quartermaster General is Brigadier General Douglas M. McBride. The Quartermaster General does not have command authority over Quartermaster units, but instead commands the United States Army Quartermaster Center and School, located at Fort Lee, Virginia, near Petersburg. This school provides enlisted advanced individual training (AIT) and leader training for Quartermaster officers, warrant officers and non-commissioned officers.\n\nFor a list of US Army Quartermaster Generals, see Quartermaster General (United States).\n\nThe Quartermaster Corps provides a host of vital services to the U.S. Army. But, because these jobs are often not glamorous, very little is mentioned about Quartermaster soldiers in the mainstream media. The Global War on Terrorism and the 11 September attack on the Pentagon, as well as operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, have brought several Quartermasters briefly into the spotlight. Here are a few who have recently gained attention:\n\n\nThe Quartermaster Corps established this private order on 7 February 1997. The emblematic figure is of Saint Martin of Tours. The medal, for Quartermasters either on Active Duty, in the Reserves, or Civilian status, is awarded in three grades: \nAn updated list of recipients is maintained on the Association of Quartermasters website.\n\nThe Military Order of Saint Martin is awarded by the Association of Quartermasters and not the United States Army.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239286", "title": "John C. Bowling", "text": "John C. Bowling\n\nJohn C. Bowling is the president of Olivet Nazarene University (ONU). John Cubby Bowling has been the president of Olivet Nazarene University since 1991. Founded in 1907, Olivet offers a full range of fully accredited bachelor's and master's degree programs as well as a doctor of education degree. The current enrollment at the university is 4,500.\n\nBefore accepting the position in August 1991, Dr. Bowling served for eight years as the senior pastor of the College Church of the Nazarene in Bourbonnais, Illinois. He also served as senior pastor of the First Church of the Nazarene, Dallas, Texas. He has been a member of the faculty at Nazarene Bible College in Colorado Springs, Colorado, and at Olivet Nazarene University.\n\nBowling holds a bachelor's degree, two master's degrees, two earned doctorates and was chosen as a Resident Fellow for post-doctoral studies at Harvard University. In addition, he was honored by Olivet with the conferral of the Doctor of Divinity degree as part of their centennial celebration.\n\nIn addition to his work at Olivet, Bowling is active with professional organizations and local community affairs, including membership on the Board of People's Bank in Kankakee.\n\nDr. Bowling is a member of the Board of Directors of the Nazarene Publishing House in Kansas City, Missouri, and the Church of the Nazarene Foundation Board of Directors. He is a member of the USA/Canada Council of Education and the International Board of Education for the Church of the Nazarene.\n\nIn addition to over 60 published articles, he has authored four books: \"A Way With Words\", \"Grace-full Leadership\", \"Packin' Up and Headin' Out: Making the Most of Your College Adventure\" and, most recently, \"Making the Climb\", which chronicles his ascent to the summit of Mount Kilimanjaro.\n\nIn 2005, Bowling declined election as a general superintendent of the Church of the Nazarene, saying that his mission at Olivet Nazarene University was not complete. In 2009, Bowling was again elected to serve as a general superintendent. He accepted, but later rescinded his acceptance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239292", "title": "Butt Out", "text": "Butt Out\n\n\"Butt Out\" is the thirteenth episode of the seventh season of the American animated television series \"South Park\", and is the 109th episode overall. It first aired on Comedy Central in the United States on December 3, 2003.\n\nIn the episode, representatives from the anti-smoking campaign rap about the dangers of smoking for the children of South Park. For fear of growing up to be giant nerds, the boys decide to take up the nasty habit.\n\nThe episode pokes fun at the formulaic storyline of some \"South Park\" episodes (including the ), which start with the boys getting themselves in trouble and inciting a controversy between the townsfolk and a national interest group (or a major catastrophe) while trying to avoid punishments, subsequently learning a lesson from this conflict.\n\nAn overly upbeat anti-smoking music group called Butt Out, which incorporates elements of dance and hip-hop into its routine, performs at South Park Elementary. The boys are put off by the annoying unoriginality and condescendingly sentimental nature of the performance, in which the performers proclaim that if everyone refuses to smoke, they can grow up to be \"just like us\". The boys take this literally and go behind the school to start binge smoking, which they do despite it causing them to cough furiously. When their school counselor Mr. Mackey approaches, the boys discard their still-lit cigarettes into a nearby dumpster, which causes a fire that burns down the entire school. When the boys are brought before the principal and their parents, the adults are initially enraged and ashamed, not at the school burning down, but at the boys smoking (in fact, the school burning down is never acknowledged by either the principal or the parents). They then convince themselves that the blame lies with the tobacco companies, whose advertising campaigns have influenced the kids. The boys happily transfer the blame to avoid punishment, but Kyle recognizes the pattern of a \"South Park\" storyline and unsuccessfully tries to get his friends to avoid the coming calamity. The town summons celebrity spokesperson Rob Reiner to combat the spread of smoking among children in South Park. Despite the fact that Reiner is vehemently against smoking and willing to tell everyone how unhealthy it is, he is portrayed as extremely gluttonous and disrespectful to those who do not share his viewpoints, constantly eating junk food and taking pride on imposing his will on others. Cartman, however, comes to look up to Reiner precisely because of this.\n\nReiner disguises himself as a woman (wearing a wig, but does not shave his massive beard) and takes the boys on a tour of a tobacco factory. The Vice-President teaches them the history of tobacco, and explains that as the dangers of smoking have been made known, the surgeon general mandated warning labels on cigarettes so those who choose to smoke or not can make informed choices, which Kyle finds reasonable. Reiner reveals himself after snapping a picture of the boys, and throws one of the employees over the railing to the factory floor before fleeing. Reiner takes the boys back to his anti-smoking encampment and tells them he is going to introduce them to some really \"decent and caring\" people of his \"Anti-Smoking\" staff, who are shown to be pale, hunched-over, and dressed in black. Reiner intends to Photoshop the photograph in order to falsely depict the executive giving cigarettes to kids. By now, Stan, Kyle, and Kenny are disgusted with Reiner and his tactics, so when Reiner offers them the opportunity to appear in an anti-smoking TV commercial, they decline, but Cartman eagerly agrees.\n\nCartman appears in the commercial to claim he is dying of lung cancer from secondhand smoke, but discovers at the end of the shoot that Reiner and his group intend to kill him and claim it actually WAS from lung cancer. Cartman flees to his friends, who at first refuse to help him when they learn that Reiner plans to kill him, fearing that they will be killed as well if he were to be found with them. Eventually, however, they relent and decide to help him after all. They consider taking him back to the cigarette factory, as they know the Vice-President will not support Reiner's plan and will protect Cartman from him. Kyle again warns that this is following a formula, and it will lead to a confrontation between the town and the factory, where they will have to admit they lied about why they smoked and talk about what they have learned. However, the group goes to the factory, anyway, knowing that it is the only way to keep Cartman safe, and the townspeople confront them with Reiner (who is eating an entire cake). The townspeople turn on Reiner when he tells them his plan (with Stan's father, Randy, even telling him outright that killing Cartman is \"not right\"), and as he attempts to explain why it is acceptable, Kyle goes into a speech (which he briefly breaks almost immediately to comment to Stan, \"See? I knew it.\") about people needing to take responsibility for their actions, and calls Reiner a fascist for imposing his will on others. Now deciding that he no longer respects Reiner, Cartman stabs him with a fork, revealing \"Reiner\" to be a boneless sac filled with green goo, who completely drains. The parents then ground the four as they now know they smoked of their own will, and though Stan is relieved that the ordeal is over and the four have \"learned [their] lesson,\" Kyle disappointedly replies, \"No, we didn't, dude. No, we didn't.\"\n\n\"Butt Out\" was written and directed by Trey Parker. Matt Stone said the episode was inspired by a desire to spoof both California's strict smoking bans and film director Rob Reiner; Stone said, \"We try not to be, 'All right, here's the point we want to make.' But things like California's smoking ban and Rob Reiner animate both of us. When we did that Rob Reiner episode, to us it was just common sense. Rob Reiner was just a great target.\"\n\nA television promo for the episode showed a deleted scene involving Butters interacting with the \"Butt Out\" group.\n\nThe episode satirizes anti-smoking education presentations by external providers that come across as cheesy or irritating to the young adult demographic they target, effectively negating any message they might be trying to send across. The episode also satirizes adult pretension, a common theme in \"South Park\" episodes, in their ineffective and nonsensical responses to the smoking problem in \"South Park\". According to Brian C. Anderson, it also lampoons the pretentiousness of the Hollywood movie industry and liberalism, particularly through the use of Rob Reiner, the real-life American director widely known for advocating smoking restrictions. Reiner, and by extension Hollywood, adopt a holier-than-thou attitude with regard to smokers, and show a lack of understanding toward the poor and middle-class. The episode advocates accepting personal responsibility for smoking rather than blaming the tobacco industry or external forces like Hollywood and television (which are often accused of condoning and glamorizing drug use, particularly with alcohol and tobacco); as such, tobacco executives are portrayed as reasonable and decent, while Reiner and Hollywood representatives are nasty and elitist. Another theme is Rob Reiner constantly eating and overweight to the point that he can't fit through a car door, pointing out that although fast food is as dangerous as smoking, it is overlooked.\n\n\"Butt Out\" received mostly positive reviews. Conservative writer Brian C. Anderson praised the episode saying the portrayal of Reiner, Hollywood and their anti-smoking efforts \"perfectly captures the Olympian arrogance and illiberalism of liberal elites.\" Anderson said this was particularly illustrated by a scene in the episode in which Reiner yells at a sawmill worker for smoking in a bar, and tells him he should relax by spending time in an expensive vacation house like Reiner does. Anderson described it as a \"classic sequence\".\n\nAmanda Kiser of \"The Battalion\" praised the episode's portrayal of anti-smoking educational performances: \"Watch the 'Butt Out' episode of \"South Park\" if you were not fortunate enough to witness such a spectacle as a preteen. Granted, the truth is substantially less ridiculous, but it is still incredibly, nauseatingly self-consciously hip.\" Richard Ives of \"Times Higher Education\" also praised this aspect of this episode: \"Teachers to whom I've shown these clips sigh in recognition.\" The \"Daily Record\" of Scotland praised the episode, which they said was extremely \"timely\".\n\nIn a 2017 Reddit interview with fans, when asked of his portrayal in the episode, actor Rob Reiner's reply was \"I thought it was funny, but I'm not quite that fat.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2239301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239301", "title": "Loch Ryan", "text": "Loch Ryan\n\nLoch Ryan (, ) is a Scottish sea loch that acts as an important natural harbour for shipping, providing calm waters for ferries operating between Scotland and Northern Ireland. The town of Stranraer is the largest settlement on its shores, with ferries to and from Northern Ireland operating from Cairnryan further north on the loch.\n\nLoch Ryan is orientated on a north-south axis, its mouth looking northward into the North Atlantic and Firth of Clyde, and the town of Stranraer sitting on its southern shores. The loch is bounded by the Rhins of Galloway peninsula on its western side and the Scottish landmass in the east (comprising Galloway and South Ayrshire), the northern points of the loch are Milleur Point and Finnarts Point. The loch itself is about long from north to south, and about wide at its widest point. Nearby roads include the A77 in the east and the A718 in the west.\n\nThe Loch Ryan basin as it is seen today formed as a result of geological and glacial activity. The first period of activity occurred during the Paleozoic era, with two periods of change. Firstly, during the Devonian period (360 to 416 million years ago) the land in the area underwent a series of shearing events which considerably altered its shape, forming a basin. Then, during the Permian period (250 to 300 million years ago) this basin filled up with sediments which were compacted to form soft sandstones. At this point in time the area would have been positioned around the equator and would form part of the Pangaea supercontinent. The second period of activity was as a result of the numerous glacial episodes during the Quaternary period, from 2 million years ago up until the last glaciers retreated 10,000 years ago. As all of northern Europe experienced numerous Ice ages, glacier formation created ice flows and Ice sheets. The erosive force of the ice moved across the land, removing the soft sandstone and leaving behind the harder rocks. When the ice sheet melted with the rising temperatures 10,000 years ago the basin was uncovered and was flooded by the sea, forming the loch that is seen today.\n\nSince the end of the last ice-age the sea has continued to change the loch by erosion and deposition. The loch has a sandbank on its western shores called 'the Scar'. This bank, just south of the village of Kirkcolm, is an important breeding ground for terns.\n\nHistorically the loch has seen human activity on its shores since ancient times. Sheltered from the rough seas of the North Channel and the North Atlantic the loch has been an important safe harbour for vessels. William Smith, Britain's foremost classicist of the 19th century, identifies Ptolemy's toponym Abrauannus (), with Loch Ryan, particularly with its outlet to the sea. Ptolemy described Abrauannus or Abravannus as a river of Britannia Barbara, that discharged itself a little northward of the \"Promontorium Novantum\", or Mull of Galloway into Luce Bay. According to Smith, Abravannus is probably the stream which flows through Loch Ryan into the sea – Ab-Ryan, or the offspring of Ryan, being easily convertible into the Roman form of the word Ab-Ryan-us – Abravannus.\n\nIn early 1307 at the beginning of Robert the Bruce's campaign in the wars of independence he sent two forces to attempt to gain control of south west Scotland. One force, led by his two brothers, consisting of eighteen galleys, landed in the loch. In the Battle of Loch Ryan, they were immediately overwhelmed by local forces, led by Dungal MacDouall, who was a supporter of the Comyns.\n"}
{"id": "2239302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239302", "title": "Pillsbury A-Mill", "text": "Pillsbury A-Mill\n\nThe Pillsbury A-Mill is a former flour mill located on the east bank of the Mississippi River in Minneapolis, Minnesota. It held the distinction of being the world's largest flour mill for 40 years. Completed in 1881, it was owned by the Pillsbury Company and operated two of the most powerful direct-drive waterwheels ever built, each capable of generating 1,200 horsepower (895 kW). The mill was named a National Historic Landmark in 1966 and has since been converted into resident artist lofts.\n\nIn 1879, after five years of secret planning, Charles Alfred Pillsbury announced to the public that he would build the largest and most advanced flour mill the world had ever seen. He had traveled to mills all over the world, searching for the best technique for milling flour on a large scale. Despite the convention of the time, Pillsbury decided that he wanted his new mill to be designed by an architect in order to make the building visually appealing. Architect LeRoy S. Buffington, with the loose advice of several engineers, carried out the design. Construction started in 1880 and was finished in 1881 under a contractor named George McMullen. The mill was built to put out 5,000 barrels a day at a time when a 500-barrel mill was considered large. However, for some years the mill was not operated at full capacity.\n\nWhen it was still in use, the seven floors and the basement of the mill all had specific purposes. The basement held a transformer vault, water inlets, and an electrical room. On the first floor there was a small floor-mounted sifter, a larger ceiling-hung sifter, and a pressure tank. On the second floor there were conveyor belts and a staff lunchroom. The third floor contained more belts and bins and the fourth floor held a dust collector, centrifugal machine, gyration shifter, grinder, scale, and a packing bin. The fifth floor held a sifter, separator, and a centrifugal machine. The sixth floor held flour bins and the seventh floor was an electrical room.\n\nIn 2003, production in the mill ceased and the mill lay empty. The building was then acquired by local developer Shafer Richardson. In 2006 they launched plans to convert and preserve the A-Mill complex as the rebranded East Bank Mills, a loft-style apartment complex containing 759 to 1,095 housing units. However, this redevelopment plan fell through due to financial matters.\n\nIn 2011, the National Trust for Historic Preservation included the mill on its annual list of 11 Most Endangered Places.\n\nIn 2013, Twin Cities-based developer Dominium gained approval for a $100 million renovation plan to transform the A-Mill into 251 affordable live/work artist lofts. The exterior of the mill was conserved in order to preserve the historical architecture of the building. However, major changes were made to the interior of the mill and the courtyard behind it. The overall project, which included other buildings within the complex, cost a total $175 million.\n\nThe building was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1966 and is a National Historic Landmark.\n\nOn the outside, the Pillsbury A-Mill is a rectangular structure measuring 175 feet (53 m) by 115 feet (35 m). The foundations are of Platteville limestone. The exterior wall thickness varies from 8'-0\" (2.4 m) thick at the basement to 2'-0\" (0.6 m) thick at the top of the building. The outside walls are of load-bearing stone with heavy timber framing on the interior (the timber was added after the completion of the building). There are six chimneys on the flat, gravel roof of the building.\n\nDue to vibrations of milling machines and poor design, the mill was fortified in 1905. Certain sections were rebuilt in the process. To this day, the walls bow inward on the top. Unlike other similarly large mills in the area, most notably the Washburn A Mill, the Pillsbury A-Mill never exploded or caught fire. As a result, it still contains its original wood frame.\n\nDuring the renovation project, a new hydroelectric turbine was installed in a tunnel below the complex. The same tunnel was originally used to mechanically power milling equipment with diverted river water. Due to the significant investment made in sustainable features such as the hydro-electric turbine and a hydrothermal system providing 75% of the building's energy needs, the project achieved LEED Gold Certification in 2017.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239303", "title": "Akram Pahalwan", "text": "Akram Pahalwan\n\nAkram Pahalwan (1930–12 April 1987), also known as Iki Pehlwan was a Pakistani wrestler and a part of the Bholu Brothers Tag Team in professional wrestling during the late 1960s. Some of his opponents are Haji Afzal (1963), George Gordienko (1967), Anton Geesink (1968) and Antonio Inoki (1976).\n\nPahalwan was initially trained in Lahore as a student of The Great Gama. Akram started his professional wrestling career in 1953 wrestling Ugandan and Kenyan wrestlers in East Africa. He defeated Mahindar Singh in Nairobi with a submission hold in a match where Singh’s elder brother was the referee. The East African public named him \"The Lion\" when he defeated the Ugandan Champion Idi Amin.\n\nPahalwan participated in around 280 major wrestling events during the 1950s. In 1958, Akram was proclaimed the Champion of Malaya in Singapore when he defeated the wrestler Hari Ram.\n\nDuring the 1960s, Pahalwan also remained a part of the Bholu Brothers wrestling team. In 1965, Pahalwan defeated Indian wrestler Hardam Singh at the National Stadium, Karachi in the third round. In 1967 he toured UK. The Bholu Brothers were rated 10th in the 1968 Tag Team world ratings. In 1968 Akram wrestled in Suriname, South America where he was beaten unconscious by Anton Geesink. Later in East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) he injured his left arm in a match against Bill Verna of Australia. \n\nIn 1976, the Bholu Brothers claimed to be the world champions and slated Pahalwan to fight Antonio Inoki. On the day of the match Inoki defeated Pahalwan with a chicken wing armlock. Pahalwan did not submit, but the ring doctor stopped the match because his left arm broke under the submission hold. Pahalwan's wrestling career ended after his match with Inoki.\n"}
{"id": "2239307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239307", "title": "Hou Cheng", "text": "Hou Cheng\n\nHou Cheng () ( 198–199) was a military officer serving under the warlord Lü Bu during the late Eastern Han dynasty of China.\n\nIn 198, during the Battle of Xiapi, fought between the warlords Lü Bu and Cao Cao (with support from Liu Bei), Cao's forces besieged Lü Bu in Xiapi (下邳; present-day Pizhou, Jiangsu) and directed the waters of the Yi (沂) and Si rivers to flood the city. After three months, the morale of Lü Bu's army fell drastically and his men gradually alienated him.\n\nAround this time, Hou Cheng sent a trader to purchase 15 horses, but the man escaped with the horses and headed towards Xiaopei (小沛; present-day Pei County, Jiangsu) with the intention of defecting to Liu Bei. Hou Cheng personally pursued the trader and retrieved all the horses. Lü Bu's officers then threw a feast to celebrate Hou Cheng's achievement. Hou Cheng prepared 5-6 \"hu\" (斛) of wine and about ten roasted hogs, and he presented half a hog and five \"dou\" (斗) of wine to Lü Bu before the feast started. He knelt down and said, \"With your grace, I managed to retrieve the stolen horses. The others came to congratulate me, so I prepared some wine and hogs for a feast. I don't dare to start first, so now I present the food and wine to you.\" Lü Bu was furious and he said, \"I banned alcohol, but you and the others dare to throw a party! Are you plotting with them to kill me?\" Hou Cheng was shocked and he immediately left. He also discarded the wine he prepared and returned the gifts he received from the other officers. On 7 February 199, Hou Cheng, along with his colleagues Song Xian (宋憲) and Wei Xu (魏續), captured Lü Bu's strategist Chen Gong and general Gao Shun, and led their troops to surrender to Cao Cao.\n\nThis incident was dramatised in Chapter 19 of the 14th-century historical novel \"Romance of the Three Kingdoms\". When Hou Cheng presented wine to Lü Bu, the latter was angry because Hou defied his ban on alcohol. Lü Bu ordered Hou Cheng to be executed, but Song Xian (宋憲) and Wei Xu (魏續) pleaded with their lord to spare Hou Cheng. Lü Bu then had Hou Cheng flogged 50 times before releasing him. Hou Cheng later plotted with Song Xian and Wei Xu to betray Lü Bu, so he stole Lü Bu's horse, the Red Hare, escaped from Xiapi, and went to Cao Cao's camp, where he told Cao Cao about their plot. With the aid of Song Xian and Wei Xu, Cao Cao's forces broke into Xiapi and captured Lü Bu.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239320", "title": "Beer in Thailand", "text": "Beer in Thailand\n\nBrewing beer in Thailand began in 1933 with the granting of a brewing license to 57-year-old Phraya Bhirom Bhakdi, born\nBoon Rawd Sreshthaputra. His company, Boon Rawd Brewery, produces Thailand's oldest and best-known lager, Singha (pronounced \"sing\"). Singha is sold in Thailand in standard (5 percent ABV), light (4.5 percent ABV), and draught versions.\n\nSingha largest competitor is Chang beer, made by Thai Beverages. Chang is noted globally for its sponsorship of Liverpool's Everton football club, as its name and logo have appeared on the team uniform since 2004.\n\nThe Thai Asia Pacific Brewery (TAPB) at its Nonthaburi plant brews Heineken (since 1995), Tiger, Cheers, and Cheers X-Tra (6.5 percent ABV). It is the Thailand importer of Guinness and Kilkenny.\n\nBoon Rawd Brewery also makes Leo, a standard lager (5 percent ABV). In addition, Thai Beverages sells Archa, a mass-market, non-premium lager. Boon Rawd Brewery also sold a global brand called Mittweida, but this was replaced by a beer brewed in partnership with InBev, Kloster. It also sells a 6.5 percent lager called Thai Beer.\n\nOther locally brewed Thai beers are Phuket Beer and Siam, both in Pathum Thani Province. Siam Beer exports Bangkok Beer abroad, but does not sell it in Thailand. Phuket Beer and Federbräu are the only Thai beers brewed in accordance with the German purification law, the \"Reinheitsgebot\". Phuket Lager received the first gold medal ever for a beer from Thailand at the 2006 Monde Selection Awards.\n\nKlassik beer is another local beer brewed in Pathum Thani Province.\n\nAlthough foreign beers are popular in Thailand, the government protects its domestic breweries by the imposition of import duties up to 60 percent. In addition, all imported beer must bear an import sticker on the bottle cap. As a result, Thai brewers have entered into partnerships with Western brewers, such as Carlsberg's former partnership with Thai Beverages (since abrogated), or Asahi's partnership with Boon Rawd\n\nIn the past, The economics of beer market in Thailand were stable but last year it grew because almost all companies in Thailand such as Singha corporation co., Chang beer, import and craft beer are having a new idea to sell beer like beer garden, produce a new beer that makes people want to try new things\nEven though mainstream beer in Thailand is more than 80% and costs is 1.8 hundred thousand million. Nowaday, super premium beer is less than 1% but it will rise up quickly because new generation of consumers likes to try and taste something new, so that according with trend of the beer market in worldwide.\nThailand has 2 big companies. Boon Rawd Brewery and Thai Beverages.\nTurnover of 2 companies\nThai Beverages :\nBoon Rawd Brewery :\nAnd the past year proportion is Leo 53% Chang 38% Singha 5%\nAll the above reasons make us know why economics of beer market in Thailand are growing. Even super premium beer group is rising up but cost will be increasing again because it will bring 2% to elderly fund followed by new law. If you are consuming beer in Thailand, you should follow this closely.\n\nTwo types of licenses are available in Thailand for would-be beer producers. Thailand's 1950 Liquor Act states that beer can only be made in a factory making more than 1,000,000 litres per year or in a brewpub producing at least 100,000 litres per year for sale on-site with no bottling permitted. Brewpub beers cannot be sold off-premises. The finance ministry in 2000 ruled that, for either type of producer to be legal, they must be a limited company with capital of at least 10 million baht. The maximum penalty for \"home brewing\" under the 1950 Liquor Act used to be 200 baht for making it and 5,000 baht for selling it. A new law passed by the National Legislative Assembly in December 2016 raised the maximum penalty for illegal production to 100,000 baht or a prison sentence of six months, or both. The maximum fine for selling illegal beer was raised to 50,000 baht. To sell craft beers off-premises, one small brewer explained, \"We have two choices: Either hire an overseas factory to make it or build a factory abroad on our own...\" and import it.\n\nMeanwhile, military-controlled ASEAN neighbour Myanmar, in January 2017, got its first craft beer microbrewery, \"Burbrit\". Its name is derived from \"Burma\" and \"Britain\", in recognition of British influence on Burma's brewing history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239332", "title": "John Cope (British Army officer)", "text": "John Cope (British Army officer)\n\nSir John (or Jonathan) Cope (1688–1760) was a British general and Member of Parliament in the first half of the 18th century.\n\nHe served in the wars of the Spanish and Austrian Successions and was a Member of Parliament for the Whig Party, representing Queenborough (1722-1727), Liskeard (1727-1734) and Orford (1738-1741).\n\nHe fought at the Allied victory of Dettingen in June 1743 during the War of the Austrian Succession and subsequently made Knight Companion of the Bath and military commander in Scotland.\n\nIn September 1745, he was defeated at Prestonpans, the first significant battle of the Jacobite rising of 1745. Although exonerated by a court-martial in 1746, this ended his career as a field officer; in 1751, he was appointed governor of the Limerick garrison and deputy to Viscount Molesworth, commander of the army in Ireland. He died in London on 28 July 1760.\n\nFor someone who held high rank, Cope's background is unusually obscure and for many years biographies referred to his parentage as unknown.\n\nHis father was Henry Cope (1645-ca 1724), a captain in the Foot Guards who resigned his commission in April 1688, shortly before marrying Dorothy Waller, widow of a Customs officer. While Cope's date of birth is often given as 1690, parish records show he was baptised on 7 July 1688 at St Giles in Camden; he had two siblings, Mary (1679-1758) and a brother Henry, who died young.\n\nThe senior branch of the family were the Cope baronets of Hanwell, with other branches in different parts of England and Ireland. His grandfather William (1612-1691) was a younger son who fought for Parliament in the Wars of the Three Kingdoms, married his brother's widow and purchased an estate in Icomb, Gloucestershire in 1654.\n\nWilliam allegedly disapproved of his son's marriage and on his death in 1691, Henry was only given a lifetime interest in Icomb. When he died circa 1724, it passed to his sister Elizabeth (1647-1731), then to his niece Elizabeth (1682-1747) and her family, effectively disinheriting his son.\n\nCope's cousin, another Sir John Cope (1673-1749), suffered the same fate because his uncle disapproved of his younger brother's marriage. This did not prevent both cousins from having extremely successful careers; Sir John was appointed a director of the Bank of England in 1706, sat as an MP from 1708 to 1741 and succeeded his father as baronet.\n\nIn December 1712, Cope married Jane Duncombe, reportedly sister of Baron Feversham (1695-1763), himself heir to Sir Charles Duncombe (1648-1711), one of the richest men in Britain. However, she is not mentioned in Feversham's own biography and she may not have been the mother of his son James, who was born in 1709, three years before their marriage. James later served as commercial consul in Hamburg and was briefly an MP before dying unmarried in 1756, four years before his father.\n\nWhile Jane's date of death is unrecorded, in August 1736 Cope remarried, his second wife being an Elizabeth Waple, of whom little is known. In July 1758, he wrote to Sir Robert Wilmot (1708-1772), referring to the 'malice and abuse' of his relatives and asking him to act as trustee for his two children by a 'Mrs Metcalf,' John and Elizabeth. If they died childless, Cope proposed leaving his property to Sir Robert's son, thus ensuring his family would not benefit.\n\nJohn Metcalf (ca 1746-1771) was educated at Eton, quickly spent the £3,000 left him by his father, ran into debt and in 1771 committed suicide in Edinburgh. In 1775, his sister Elizabeth became the second wife of Sir Alexander Leith (1741-1780) but his biography describes her only as 'a daughter of Sir John Cope,' while their two sons do not appear in the record.\n\nEducated at Westminster School, in 1706 he joined the household of Thomas Wentworth, Lord Raby (1672-1739), British ambassador to Prussia. Raby was also Colonel of the Royal Regiment of Dragoons, then campaigning in Spain as part of the War of the Spanish Succession, and in 1707 Cope became a cornet in his regiment.\n\nAlthough the commission purchase system meant money was important for a successful military career, it also required connections, since transfers had to be approved. Cope clearly had the ability to attract notice; in 1707, the Earl of Galway, then commander in Spain, agreed to find him 'a better position.' Subsequently appointed as an aide-de-camp to Galway's replacement James Stanhope, he took part in the 1708 capture of Minorca and the Battle of Almenara in 1710.\n\nIn August 1714, George I succeeded Queen Anne and the Whigs formed the new government, with Stanhope as its dominant figure. In 1715, Cope was commissioned as captain in the 2nd Foot Guards, equivalent to a regular army rank of lieutenant-colonel, then the 1st Troop of Horse Grenadier Guards in 1720. Both units were normally based in London, the Horse Guards having served there continuously since 1691, and provided security for the monarch and government. This gave officers regular contact with highly influential people, while being in London made it easier to combine political and military careers. \nAfter Stanhope died in 1721, Sir Robert Walpole replaced him as chief minister and in the 1722 election, Cope was elected Member of Parliament or MP for the Whig-controlled constituency of Queenborough. While relatives like Edward Cope Hopton (1708-1754) were Tory MPs, Cope, his former brother-in-law Feversham, cousin Sir John and his son Monoux Cope (1696-1763) were reliable government supporters. In 1727, he was returned as MP for Liskeard and although defeated at Orford in 1734, he was returned unopposed in a 1735 bye-election. As Walpole's influence weakened, many Whigs did not contest the 1741 election, including Cope and Sir John.\n\nHis military career continued to progress; in 1730, he became Colonel of the 39th Foot, then successively the 5th Foot, the 9th Dragoons and finally the 7th Dragoons in 1741. He served in Flanders during the War of the Austrian Succession and was promoted Lieutenant-General in February 1743. He led a cavalry brigade at Dettingen in June, where George II became the last ruling British monarch to command troops in battle. In the aftermath of victory, Cope was made a Knight of the Bath and in December 1743, appointed Commander of military forces in Scotland.\n\nCharles Stuart landed on Eriskay on 23 July 1745, although this was only confirmed in early August. Cope had 3,000–4,000 troops available, many of them inexperienced recruits, but his main handicap was poor advice, particularly from Tweeddale, the Secretary of State for Scotland.\n\nOnce the landing was confirmed, Cope left his cavalry at Stirling under Thomas Fowke and taking his infantry, marched on Corrieyairack Pass, the primary access point between the Western Highlands and the Lowlands. He found the Jacobites already in possession and after conferring with his officers, withdrew to Inverness on 26 August; however, this left Edinburgh exposed and the Jacobites advanced on it using the newly constructed military road network.\n\nHearing this, Cope loaded his troops onto ships at Aberdeen in an attempt to reach the Scottish capital first and they began disembarking at Dunbar on 17 September, only to find Charles had entered the city earlier the same day. Joined by Fowke and the cavalry, Cope advanced towards Edinburgh, feeling he had sufficient resources to deal with a Jacobite army numbering around 2,000.\n\nWhile his assessment was correct, his army's effectiveness was undermined by inexperience and the poor quality of several senior officers. Ironically given future depictions of the battle, James Gardiner was described as a 'nervous wreck;' on 16 September, his Regiment of dragoons had fled in panic from a small party of Highlanders in the so-called 'Coltbridge Canter.' \n\nThe two armies made contact on the afternoon of 20 September; Cope's forces faced south, with a marshy area immediately in front and park walls protecting their right (see Map). The 1746 court-martial agreed the ground was well chosen and the disposition of his troops appropriate. During the night the Jacobites moved onto his left flank and Cope wheeled his army to face east (see Map); his dragoons panicked and fled, exposing the infantry in the centre. Attacked on three sides, they were over-run in less than 15 minutes, with their retreat blocked by the park walls to their rear; government losses were 300 to 500 killed or wounded and 500 to 600 taken prisoner.\n\nUnable to rally his troops, Cope left the field with his artillery commander, Colonel Whitefoord, while his infantry commander Lascelles fought his way out. Joined by Fowke and the dragoons, they reached Berwick-upon-Tweed the next day with some 450 survivors. Several hours after the battle, Cope wrote to Tweeddale; \"I cannot reproach myself; the manner in which the enemy came on was quicker than can be described...and the cause of our men taking on a destructive panic...\"\n\nHe was temporarily replaced as commander in Scotland by Roger Handasyd, then Henry Hawley, his deputy at Dettingen, who was also over-run by the Highland charge at Falkirk Muir in January 1746. Cope had retained his ability to make friends in high places and by publicly meeting with him, George II indicated his support for him. He, Fowke and Lascelles were tried by a court-martial in 1746 and all three exonerated, the Court deciding defeat was due to the 'shameful conduct of the private soldiers.'\n\nBoth Lascelles and Fowke continued their careers; in 1756, Fowke was court-martialled a second time for his role in the loss of Minorca, which led to the execution of Admiral Byng. Fowke was dismissed but the verdict was widely regarded as unjust and he was reinstated in 1761. Cope never held field command again, although a modern historian summarised the Report's findings as follows:\n\nCope suffered from severe gout, a common illness at the time. While his post in Ireland did not require residence, he seems to have accepted both retirement and the end of his career. In a letter of 19 July 1753 to Fowke, he refers to his unpopularity by saying 'I am just as desirous not to be employed, as those who could employ me are unwilling to do it, so in that we are perfectly agreed.' In another dated 8 July 1755, he mentions staying in Bath, whose spa waters were a favourite remedy for invalids.\n\nModern views of Cope's role in the defeat are largely derived from third party accounts, none of whom were present and each having a specific objective. In his 1747 book \"Life of Colonel Gardiner,\" the nonconformist minister Philip Doddridge turned evangelical convert Gardiner into a Christian hero, largely by ridiculing Cope; this remains an enduring myth.\n\nSir Walter Scott's 1817 novel 'Waverley' also features Gardiner, his heroic death helping to convince the English Jacobite hero that the future lies with the Union, not the Stuarts. The often quoted and inaccurate quip by Lord Mark Kerr that Cope brought news of his own defeat appears to have been another embellishment by Scott.\n\nThe best-known legacy was provided by Alan Skirving, a local farmer who visited the battlefield later that afternoon where he was, by his own account, mugged by the victors. He wrote two songs, \"Tranent Muir\" and the better known \"Hey, Johnnie Cope, Are Ye Waking Yet?\", a tune that still features in Scottish folk music and bagpipe recitals.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239334", "title": "Battle of Elba", "text": "Battle of Elba\n\nThe naval Battle of Elba (or Battle of Monte Cristo) was a naval battle which took place on 28 August 1652 during the First Anglo-Dutch war, between a Dutch squadron under Johan van Galen and an English squadron under Captain Richard Badiley.\n\nThe English were trying to reach Livorno, where a squadron under Captain Henry Appleton was under siege by the Dutch squadron. Leaving four of his fourteen vessels to maintain the watch over Livorno, van Galen took his remaining ten ships to intercept Badiley's squadron. The two encountered each other between Montecristo and Elba Islands. The \"Phoenix\" was captured by the \"Jaarsveld\", while the other English warships retreated into Porto Longone. The captured ship, \"Phoenix\", was recaptured 2 months later during a night raid at Livorno.\n\nShips involved:\n\n\"Jaarsveld\" 44 (flagship of van Galen)<br>\n\"Prinses Roijaal\" 34 (Albert Corneliszoon 't Hoen; killed)<br>\n\"Wapen van Zeeland\" 32 (Joost Willemszoon Block; killed)<br>\n\"Eendracht\" 40 (Jacob de Boer, Vice-Admiral)<br>\n\"Maan\" 40 (David Janszoon Bondt; killed)<br>\n\"Vereenigde Provinciën/Zeven Provinciën\" 40 (Hendrick Claeszoon Swart; killed)<br>\n\"Haarlem\" 40 (Dirck Quiinen Verveen)<br>\n\"Maagd van Enkhuysen\" 34 (Cornelis Tromp)<br>\n\"Zeelandia\" 32 (Andries de Boer)<br>\n\"Jonge Prins\" 28 (Cornelis Barentszoon Slordt)\n\nThe \"Jaarsveld\" and four other ships of the squadron belonged to the Amsterdam Admiralty, but the \"Prinses Roijaal\", \"Eendracht\" and \"Jonge Prins\" belonged to the Noorderkwartier Admiralty, while \"Wapen van Zeeland\" and \"Zeelandia\" belonged to the Zeeland Admiralty.\n\n\"Paragon\" 52 ('flagship' of Badiley)<br>\n\"Elizabeth\" 36 (Capt. Jonas Reeves)<br>\n\"Phoenix\" 36 (Capt. John Wadsworth) - Captured by \"Eendracht\"<br>\n\"Constant Warwick\" 32 (Capt. Owen Cox)<br>\n\nThe squadron was convoying four merchantmen, who however took no part in the Action and made their way independently into Porto Longone.<br>\n\"Mary Rose\" 32 (merchantman, Capt. Jonas Poole)<br>\n\"William and Thomas\" 30 (merchantman, Capt. John Godolphin)<br>\n\"Thomas Bonaventure\" 28 (merchantman, Capt. George Hughes??)<br>\n\"Richard and William\" 24 (merchantman, Capt. John Wise??)\n"}
{"id": "2239336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239336", "title": "Lulworth Castle", "text": "Lulworth Castle\n\nLulworth Castle, in East Lulworth, Dorset, England, situated south of the village of Wool, is an early 17th-century hunting lodge erected in the style of a revival fortified castle, one of only five extant Elizabethan or Jacobean buildings of this type. It is listed with Historic England as a Scheduled monument. It is also Grade I listed. The 18th-century Adam style interior of the stone building was devastated by fire in 1929, but has now been restored and serves as a museum. The castle is surrounded by Lulworth Park and the Lulworth Estate. The park and gardens surrounding the castle are Grade II listed with Historic England.\n\nThe foundations for Lulworth Castle were laid in 1588, and it was completed in 1609, supposedly designed by Inigo Jones. It was built as a hunting lodge by Thomas Howard, 3rd Viscount Howard of Bindon, a grandson of the 3rd Duke of Norfolk. In 1607 Viscount Bindon wrote to Robert Cecil, 1st Earl of Salisbury crediting him with the origins of the design;\"If this little pile in Lulworth Park shall prove pretty or worth the labour bestowed in the erecting of it, I will acknowledge, as the truth is, that your powerful speech to me at Bindon laid the first foundation of the pile in my mind, which ever since has laboured for a speedy finishing for the contentment of those for whose further liking of that place the care is taken\". \n\nAccording to the NHLE listing, the building was subsequently remodelled 1609-11 for Thomas Lord Suffolk; remodelled again in 1641 for Humphrey Weld; and in the early 18th century by Bastard brothers of Blandford Forum and in the 1780s by Catholic architect John Tasker for Thomas Weld. Tasker also built the Roman Catholic chapel in the grounds. Pevsner's assessment of the castle building two hundred years later views it as a Jacobean case of one-upmanship among wealthy landowners whose residential needs are already satisfied elsewhere, hence a series of \"mock castles\", such as the Elizabethan castellated house \"par excellence\" that is Longford Castle and which probably inspired Bindon.\n\nFollowing the French Revolution, the surviving members of the French royal family were invited to use Lulworth as one of their residences-in-exile. Later Charles X of France and family also stayed there briefly, following the July Revolution of 1830 on their way to Edinburgh.\n\nThomas Weld built a Roman Catholic church dedicated to St. Mary's to serve as the family chapel in the grounds of the castle in 1786. Pevsner relates that he needed permission from King George III on condition it did not look like a church from outside. It was to be the first Roman Catholic chapel to be built since the time of the Protestant Reformation. It was designed by John Tasker in the form of a Greek mausoleum at a cost of £2,380. The building has been Grade I listed.\n\nOn August 15 1790 John Carroll, an \"American\" Jesuit friend of Thomas, was consecrated bishop by Bishop Charles Walmesley, in the chapel of Lulworth Castle. Carroll was later to become the first Roman Catholic archbishop of Baltimore. The next episcopal consecration took place there on 19 December of the same year when John Douglass was consecrated bishop of The London District (which included the home counties, the West Indies with the exception of Trinidad, and the Channel Islands of Jersey and Guernsey) by William Gibson, titular bishop of Acanthus, and Vicar Apostolic of the Northern District. After his sudden death in Stonyhurst in 1810, Thomas Weld was buried in the Lulworth chapel crypt.\n\nThe castle was gutted by fire on 29 August 1929 and was left as a roofless ruin, the family building a new residence for themselves nearby. \nIn the 1970s, restoration work began with the help of English Heritage. The restoration, finished in 1998, included a new roof and restored surviving walls in the interior, but no new internal walls or replacements for the destroyed upper floors were constructed.\n\nIn 1986 the Baltimore-born organ builder William Drake restored the 1780 Seede organ at the Roman Catholic Chapel at Lulworth Castle, a project that attracted attention internationally.\n\nThe castle is still owned by the Weld family and is a tourist attraction, holding medieval-themed events. Part of the Lulworth Estate is in use as an MoD firing range as well as a wildlife conservation area.\n\nSince 2017, the site was used as the location for the Bestival music festival, with the castle's foreground being the location for the main \"Castle\" stage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239339", "title": "Commonsense knowledge (artificial intelligence)", "text": "Commonsense knowledge (artificial intelligence)\n\nIn artificial intelligence research, commonsense knowledge consists of facts about the everyday world, such as \"Lemons are sour\", that all humans are expected to know. It is currently an unsolved problem in Artificial General Intelligence and is a focus of the Paul Allen Institute for Artificial Intelligence. The first AI program to address common sense knowledge was Advice Taker in 1959 by John McCarthy.\n\nCommonsense knowledge can underpin a commonsense reasoning process, to attempt inferences such as \"You might bake a cake because you want people to eat the cake.\" A natural language processing process can be attached to the commonsense knowledge base to allow the knowledge base to attempt to answer questions about the world. Common sense knowledge also helps to solve problems in the face of incomplete information. Using widely held beliefs about everyday objects, or common sense knowledge, AI systems make common sense assumptions or default assumptions about the unknown similar to the way people do. In an AI system or in English, this is expressed as 'Normally P holds', 'Usually P' or 'Typically P so Assume P'. For example, if we know the fact 'Tweety is a bird' , because we know the commonly held belief about birds, 'typically birds fly,' without knowing anything else about tweety, we may reasonably assume the fact that 'Tweety can fly.' As more knowledge of the world is discovered or learned over time, the AI system can revise its assumptions about Tweety using a truth maintenance process. If we later learn that 'Tweety is a penguin' then truth maintenance revises this assumption because we also know 'penguins do not fly'.\n\nCommonsense reasoning simulates the human ability to use commonsense knowledge to make presumptions about the type and essence of ordinary situations they encounter every day, and to change their 'minds' should new information come to light. This includes time, missing or incomplete information and cause and effect. The ability to explain cause and effect is an important aspect of explainable AI. Truth maintenance algorithms automatically provide an explanation facility because they create elaborate records of presumptions. Compared with humans, all existing computer programs that attempt human-level AI perform extremely poorly on modern \"commonsense reasoning\" benchmark tests such as the Winograd Schema Challenge. The problem of attaining human-level competency at \"commonsense knowledge\" tasks is considered to probably be \"AI complete\" (that is, solving it would require the ability to synthesize a fully human-level intelligence), although some oppose this notion and believe compassionate intelligence is also required for human-level AI. Common sense reasoning has been applied successfully in more limited domains such as automated diagnosis or analysis.\n\nAround 2013, MIT researchers developed BullySpace, an extension of the commonsense knowledgebase ConceptNet, to catch taunting social media comments. BullySpace included over 200 semantic assertions based around stereotypes, to help the system infer that comments like \"Put on a wig and lipstick and be who you really are\" are more likely to be an insult if directed at a boy than a girl.\n\nConceptNet has also been used by chatbots and by computers that compose original fiction. At Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, common sense knowledge was used in an intelligent software agent to detect violations of a comprehensive nuclear test ban treaty.\n\nAs an example, as of 2012 ConceptNet includes these 21 language-independent relations:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239345", "title": "Devil World", "text": "Devil World\n\n\"Devil World\" is a \"Pac-Man\" styled maze game in which player 1 controls Tamagon, a green dragon who decides to \"attack the Devil's World\", along with a red player 2 version of him. He navigates through a series of mazes patrolled by monsters, and touches Crosses to power up and summon the ability to breathe fire and eat the dots in the maze. Without a cross, he is completely helpless, and cannot complete the maze. The large winged demon simply called \"the Devil\" dances at the top of the screen, and will point in a direction for four of his minions to move the maze by using pulleys and ropes. This can be dangerous, as Tamagon can be squished by getting caught between a maze wall and the moving outer boundary. After the first maze is cleared, the next objective is to get four Bibles, and put them into a seal. The Bibles give Tamagon the same powers as with the Crosses. After carrying them all into the seal, the Devil flies to the next maze. In between, a bonus maze shows up where Tamagon collects six Bonus Boxes under a time limit. The pattern then repeats.\n\n\"Devil World\" was designed by Shigeru Miyamoto and Takashi Tezuka, and directed by Miyamoto as his first console-only game. The game provided Tezuka's first project when he joined Nintendo full-time. Initially, Tezuka did not know of \"Pac-Man\" at that time, a game that \"Devil World\" resembles, but enjoyed the game when he played it for the first time. Among Tezuka's tasks then was to create pixelated images based on Miyamoto's instructions. During the development, Tezuka suggested holes the player's character would fall into, causing him to lose a turn. However, when they made a version to test his idea and tried it out, Tezuka was told that it is \"a bit flat\", and so they went back to the original feature of the character being squished against the walls.\n\nChris Kohler called \"Devil World\" \"a typically ingenious Miyamoto-directed take on the maze genre, with inventive graphics and fun game play\" which \"absolutely could not be released in America\" because its satanic and religious imagery \"would be seen as unsettling or even blasphemous\". On IGN's \"Top 10 \"Pac-Man\" Clones\", \"Devil World\" was ranked fourth. \"Eurogamer\" rated the Virtual Console release 7 out of 10 points. The reviewer stated that \"Devil World\" is \"worth experiencing just for the bizarre nature of the concept\", but also commented that its \"abundance of ideas ultimately get in the way of the simple gameplay\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2239348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239348", "title": "Advanced boiling water reactor", "text": "Advanced boiling water reactor\n\nThe advanced boiling water reactor (ABWR) is a Generation III boiling water reactor. The ABWR is currently offered by GE Hitachi Nuclear Energy (GEH) and Toshiba. The ABWR generates electrical power by using steam to power a turbine connected to a generator; the steam is boiled from water using heat generated by fission reactions within nuclear fuel. Kashiwazaki-Kariwa unit 6 is considered the first Generation III reactor in the world.\n\nBoiling water reactors (BWRs) are the second most common form of light water reactor with a direct cycle design that uses fewer large steam supply components than the pressurized water reactor (PWR), which employs an indirect cycle. The ABWR is the present state of the art in boiling water reactors, and is the first Generation III reactor design to be fully built, with several reactors complete and operating. The first reactors were built on time and under budget in Japan, with others under construction there and in Taiwan. ABWRs were on order in the United States, including two reactors at the South Texas Project site (although the project is currently halted). The projects in both Taiwan and US are both reported over-budgeted.\n\nThe standard ABWR plant design has a net electrical output of about , generated from about of thermal power.\n\nThe ABWR represents an evolutionary route for the BWR family, with numerous changes and improvements to previous BWR designs.\n\nMajor areas of improvement include:\n\nThe RPV and Nuclear Steam Supply System (NSSS) have significant improvements, such as the substitution of RIPs, eliminating conventional external recirculation piping loops and pumps in the containment that in turn drive jet pumps producing forced flow in the RPV. RIPs provide significant improvements related to reliability, performance and maintenance, including a reduction in occupational radiation exposure related to containment activities during maintenance outages. These pumps are powered by wet-rotor motors with the housings connected to the bottom of the RPV and eliminating large diameter external recirculation pipes that are possible leakage paths. The 10 internal recirculation pumps are located at the bottom of the annulus downcomer region (i.e., between the core shroud and the inside surface of the RPV). Consequently, internal recirculation pumps eliminate all of the jet pumps in the RPV, all of the large external recirculation loop pumps and piping, the isolation valves and the large diameter nozzles that penetrated the RPV and needed to suction water from and return it to the RPV. This design therefore reduces the worst leak below the core region to effectively equivalent to a leak. The conventional BWR3-BWR6 product line has an analogous potential leak of 24 or more inches in diameter. A major benefit of this design is that it greatly reduces the flow capacity required of the ECCS.\n\nThe first reactors to use internal recirculation pumps were designed by ASEA-Atom (now Westinghouse Electric Company by way of mergers and buyouts, which is owned by Toshiba) and built in Sweden. These plants have operated very successfully for many years.\n\nThe internal pumps reduce the required pumping power for the same flow to about half that required with the jet pump system with external recirculation loops. Thus, in addition to the safety and cost improvements due to eliminating the piping, the overall plant thermal efficiency is increased. Eliminating the external recirculation piping also reduces occupational radiation exposure to personnel during maintenance.\n\nAn operational feature in the ABWR design is electric fine motion control rod drives, first used in the BWRs of AEG (later Kraftwerk Union AG, now AREVA). Older BWRs use a hydraulic locking piston system to move the control rods in six-inch increments. The electric fine motion control rod design greatly enhances positive actual control rod position and similarly reduces the risk of a control rod drive accident to the point that no velocity limiter is required at the base of the cruciform control rod blades.\n\nSlightly different versions of the ABWR are offered by GE-Hitachi, Hitachi-GE and Toshiba.\n\nIn 1997 the GE-Hitachi U.S. ABWR design was certified as a final design in final form by the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, meaning that its performance, efficiency, output, and safety have already been verified, making it bureaucratically easier to build it rather than a non-certified design.\n\nIn 2013, following its purchase of Horizon Nuclear Power, Hitachi began the process of generic design assessment of the Hitachi-GE ABWR with the UK Office for Nuclear Regulation. This was completed in December 2017.\n\nIn July 2016 Toshiba withdrew the U.S. design certification renewal for the ABWR because \"it has become increasingly clear that energy price declines in the US prevent Toshiba from expecting additional opportunities for ABWR construction projects\".\n\nThe ABWR is licensed to operate in Japan, the United States and Taiwan, although most of the construction projects have been halted or shelved.\n\n, four ABWRs were in operation in Japan: Kashiwazaki-Kariwa units 6 and 7, which opened in 1996 and 1997, Hamaoka unit 5, opened 2004 having started construction in 2000, and Shika 2 commenced commercial operations on March 15, 2006. Another two partially constructed reactors are in Lungmen in Taiwan, and one more (Shimane Nuclear Power Plant 3) in Japan. Work on Lungmen halted in 2014. Work on Shimane halted after the 2011 earthquake\n\nOn June 19, 2006 NRG Energy filed a Letter Of Intent with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to build two 1358 MWe ABWRs at the South Texas Project site. On September 25, 2007, NRG Energy and CPS Energy submitted a Construction and Operations License (COL) request for these plants with the NRC. NRG Energy is a merchant generator and CPS Energy is the nation's largest municipally owned utility. The COL was approved by the NRC on February 9, 2016. Due to market conditions, these two planned units may never be built and do not have a planned construction date.\n\nHorizon Nuclear Power had plans to build Hitachi-GE ABWRs at Wylfa in Wales and Oldbury in England. Both projects were paused in March 2012 by the shareholders at the time (RWE and E-ON) to put Horizon up for sale, with Hitachi becoming the new owner. The 'Development Consent Order' for Wylfa was accepted in June 2018 and in August Bechtel were appointed as project managers. The first reactor was expected online in the mid 2020s with construction at Oldbury expected to start a few years after this. However, on January 17, 2019, Horizon Nuclear Power announced the suspension of both these projects for financial reasons.\n\nIn comparison with comparable designs, the four ABWRs in operation are often shut down due to technical problems. The International Atomic Energy Agency documents this with the 'operating factor' (the time with electricity feed-in relative to the total time since commercial operation start). The first two plants in Kashiwazaki-Kariwa (block 6 & 7) reach total life operating factors of 70%, meaning that about 30% of the time, since commissioning, they were not producing electricity. For example, in 2010 Kashiwazaki-Kariwa 6 had an operating capacity of 80.9%, and an operating capacity of 93% in 2011. However, in 2008 it did not produce any power as the installation was offline for maintenance, and therefore had an operating capacity of 0% for that year. In contrast other modern nuclear power plants like the Korean OPR-1000 or the German Konvoi show operating factors of about 90%.\n\nThe output power of the two new ABWRs at the Hamaoka and Shika power plant had to be lowered because of technical problems in the power plants steam turbine section. After throttling both power plants down, they still have a heightened downtime and show a lifetime operating factor under 50%.\n\nA number of design variants have been considered, with power outputs varying from 600 to 1800 MWe. The most developed design variant is the ABWR-II, started in 1991, an enlarged 1718 MWe ABWR, intended to make nuclear power generation more competitive in the late 2010s. None of these designs have been deployed.\n\nThe new designs hoped to achieve 20% reductions in operating costs, 30% reduction in capital costs, and tight planned construction schedule of 30 months. The design would allow for more flexibility in choices of nuclear fuels.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239351", "title": "Amagasaki Station (Hanshin)", "text": "Amagasaki Station (Hanshin)\n\nWhile this station is situated relatively close to the station of the same name that is operated by JR West, passengers transferring between these two stations must use buses to transfer between trains.\n\n\nThe station consists of six tracks and four island platforms, with Track 2 sharing platforms with both Tracks 1 and 3, and Track 5 sharing platforms with both Tracks 4 and 6. \n\n\nThe station consisted of five tracks and three island platforms, with Track 4 sharing platforms with both Tracks 3 and 6.\n\nThe station consisted of five tracks and three island platforms, with Track 5 (former Track 4) sharing platforms with both Tracks 4 (former Track 3) and 6. A new platform was under construction in the north of Track 1. Track 4 became used for the Nishi-Osaka Line trains while Tracks 5 and 6 for the Main Line westbound trains.\n\nThe station consisted of five tracks and three island platforms, with Track 5 sharing platforms with both Track 4 and 6. A track was situated in the north of the completed platform and assigned as Track 1. Former Track 1 was renumbered Track 2 and the former platform in the south of present Track 2 was closed.\n\nThe station consisted of five tracks and three island platforms, with Track 2 sharing platforms with both Tracks 1 and 3. The repair of the platform serving Tracks 2 and 3 was completed and the trains of the Nishi-Osaka Line left from Track 3.\n\n\n\nAll rapid express trains pass Chidoribashi, Dempo, Fuku, Dekijima, and Daimotsu every day from March 20, 2012.\n"}
{"id": "2239353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239353", "title": "1927 in American television", "text": "1927 in American television\n\nThis is a list of American television-related events in 1927.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239356", "title": "Al-Jarrah ibn Abdallah", "text": "Al-Jarrah ibn Abdallah\n\nAbu ʿUqba al-Jarrah ibn ʿAbdallah al-Hakami () was an Arab nobleman and general of the Hakami tribe. During the course of the early 8th century, he was at various times governor of Basra, Sistan and Khurasan, Armenia and Adharbayjan. A legendary warrior already during his lifetime, he is best known for his campaigns against the Khazars on the Caucasus front, culminating in his death in the Battle of Marj Ardabil in 730.\n\nAccording to Baladhuri, al-Jarrah was born in Jund al-Urdunn (military district of Jordan) and probably followed Sufyan ibn al-Abrad al-Kalbi and Abd al-Rahman ibn Habib al-Hakami to Iraq in 696. The latter and al-Jarrah hailed from the Banu al-Hakam ibn Sa'd al-Ashira tribe, a branch of the Madh'hij. In 701, he fought against the rebellion of Ibn al-Ash'ath.\n\nIn 706 or a few years later he was appointed as governor of Basra under the governor of Iraq, al-Hajjaj ibn Yusuf, and remained in the post until al-Hajjaj's replacement by Yazid ibn al-Muhallab in 715. Yazid in turn named al-Jarrah as his deputy for Iraq, before he himself left for Khurasan, and in 717, Caliph Umar II (r. 717–720) appointed al-Jarrah as Yazid's successor in the governorship of Khurasan and Sistan. Al-Jarrah remained in Khurasan until March/April 719, when he was dismissed after 17 months in office due to complaints of his mistreatment of the native converts to Islam (\"mawali\"), who, despite their conversion, were still obliged to pay the poll-tax (\"jizya\"). He was replaced by his deputy, Abd al-Rahman ibn Nu'aym al-Ghamidi. The most notable event of his tenure was the beginning of the covert missionary activity (\"da'wah\") by the agents of the Abbasids in Khurasan. After his return to Iraq, in 720, he seems to have fought alongside Maslamah ibn Abd al-Malik in the suppression of the rebellion of Yazid ibn al-Muhallab.\n\nIn 721/2, the main phase of the Second Arab–Khazar War began on the Caucasus front. In the winter of this year, 30,000 Khazars launched an invasion of Armenia and inflicted a crushing defeat on the army of the local governor Mi'laq ibn Saffar al-Bahrani at Marj al-Hijara in February/March 722. In response, Caliph Yazid II (r. 720–724) sent al-Jarrah with 25,000 Syrian troops to Armenia, placing him in command of the Umayyad offensive against the Khazars. Al-Jarrah was swiftly successful in driving the Khazars back across the Caucasus, and fought his way north along the western coast of the Caspian Sea, recovering Derbent and advancing onto the Khazar capital of Balanjar. The Khazars tried to defend the city by ringing the citadel with a laager of wagons, but the Arabs broke it apart and stormed the city on 21 August 722 (or 723). Most of Balanjar's inhabitants were killed or enslaved, but a few managed to flee north. The Arabs also took the town of Wabandar, and even approached Samandar (near modern Kizlyar).\n\nDespite these successes, the Arabs could not achieve a decisive result. The main Khazar army remained intact and a constant threat, since like all nomad forces it was not dependent on cities for supplies. Coupled with the fact that his rear was still insecure, al-Jarrah was forced to abandon any attempt at capturing Samandar as well, and to retreat to Warthan south of the Caucasus. From there he asked for reinforcements from Yazid, but although the Caliph promised to send more troops, he failed to do so. The sources are obscure on al-Jarrah's activity in 723, but he seems to have led another campaign north (which may indeed be the true date of the Balanjar campaign). In response, the Khazars raided south of the Caucasus, but in February 724, al-Jarrah inflicted a crushing defeat on them in a battle between the rivers Cyrus and Araxes that lasted for several days. Al-Jarrah followed up his success by capturing Tiflis, whose inhabitants were obliged to pay the \"kharaj\" but received a charter of rights in return. This campaign brought Caucasian Iberia and the lands of the Alans under Muslim suzerainty, and al-Jarrah became the first Muslim commander to march through the Darial Pass in the process. This expedition secured the Muslims' own flank against a possible Khazar attack through the Darial, while conversely it gave the Muslim army a second invasion route into Khazar territory.\n\nIn 725, however, the new Caliph Hisham ibn Abd al-Malik (r. 724–743) replaced al-Jarrah with his own brother Maslamah ibn Abd al-Malik.\n\nIn 729, after a mixed performance against the Khazars, Maslamah was replaced yet again as governor of Armenia and Adharbayjan by al-Jarrah. For all his energy, Maslamah's campaigning failed to produce the desired results: by the time of his dismissal, the Arabs had lost control of northeastern Transcaucasia and been thrust once more into the defensive, with al-Jarrah again having to defend Adharbayjan against a Khazar invasion.\n\nIn 730, al-Jarrah returned to the offensive through Tiflis and the Darial Pass. Arab sources report that he reached as far as the Khazar capital, al-Bayda, on the Volga, but modern historians such as Khalid Yahya Blankinship consider this improbable. Soon after, he was forced back to Bardha'a to defend Arran from invasion by the Khazar general Tharmach. It is unclear whether the Khazars moved through the Darial Pass or the Caspian Gates, but they succeeded in outmanoeuvring al-Jarrah, bypassing the Arab forces and laying siege to Ardabil, the capital of Adharbayjan, where 30,000 Muslim troops and their families were gathered. News of this development forced al-Jarrah to hastily withdraw from Bardha'a and march south in a rapid march to Ardabil's rescue. Outside the city walls, after a three-day battle on 7–9 December 730, al-Jarrah's army of 25,000 was all but annihilated by the Khazars under Barjik, with al-Jarrah himself falling in the field. Command passed to al-Jarrah's brother al-Hajjaj, who was unable to prevent the sacking of Ardabil, or to check Khazar raids that reached as far as south as Mosul. The experienced general Sa'id ibn Amr al-Harashi was put in command and soon succeeded in driving back the invasion, while under the leadership of Marwan ibn Muhammad (the future Marwan II) the war was concluded in a nominal Arab victory in 737.\n\nAl-Jarrah's death caused widespread lamentation in the Muslim world, particularly among the soldiers, as he had achieved a legendary status already during his lifetime: the \"paradigmatic general\" (Patricia Crone), he had an impressive physical presence—according to tradition, he was so tall that when he entered the Great Mosque of Damascus, his head seemed to be suspended from the lamps—and his military prowess was celebrated with the sobriquets \"hero of Islam\" (\"Baṭal al-Islām\") and \"Cavalier of the Syrians\" (\"Fāris Ahl al-Shām\").\n\n"}
{"id": "2239361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239361", "title": "Live Rust", "text": "Live Rust\n\nLive Rust is a live album by Neil Young and Crazy Horse, recorded during their fall 1978 \"Rust Never Sleeps\" tour.\n\n\"Live Rust\" composed of performances recorded at several venues, including the Cow Palace near San Francisco. Young also directed a companion film, \"Rust Never Sleeps\", under a pseudonym \"Bernard Shakey\", which consisted of footage from the Cow Palace.\n\nThe CD version of the album was slightly edited so as to fit on a single compact disc, which were limited to 74 minutes at the time this album was first issued on CD. In 2014, a remastered, high-resolution download was made available on the Pono store, restoring the album to its original length.\n\nBetween tracks 2 and 3 on side 2 there is a stage announcement calling for people to get off of a tower and comments on an ongoing rainstorm. This is actually taken from Woodstock, almost a decade prior where Young performed as a member of Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young.\n\nAll tracks written by Neil Young, unless noted.Crazy Horse appears on all tracks, except side one and track 3 of side two.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAlbum\nSingles\n"}
{"id": "2239371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239371", "title": "Cooley Law School Stadium", "text": "Cooley Law School Stadium\n\nCooley Law School Stadium (previously known as Oldsmobile Park; sometimes known as Lugnuts Stadium) is a baseball stadium in Lansing, Michigan, home field of the Lansing Lugnuts minor league baseball team. The Michigan State Spartans college baseball team also plays select home games at Cooley Law School Stadium. The stadium is situated in downtown Lansing in the Stadium District on a relatively narrow strip of land between and below Larch and Cedar streets.\n\nIt is primarily used for baseball, though it has also hosted an ice skating rink, an outdoor movie theater, a haunted house, and served as a concert venue for the annual Common Ground Music Festival. Due to the dimensions of the city block in which the stadium was constructed, the right and left field fences 'notch' sharply into distances of at each foul pole.\n\nThe stadium replaced a block of storefronts along Michigan Avenue. Originally budgeted $10 million for construction, the construction costs rose slightly to $12.8 million.\n\nGroundbreaking for the stadium took place on April 3, 1995, and it was officially opened exactly one year later on April 3, 1996. Its first game was between the college baseball teams of the University of Michigan and Michigan State University. Two days later, the Lansing Lugnuts had their first game at the venue against the Rockford Cubbies.\n\nOn February 22, 2010, Lansing mayor Virgil Bernero announced that the stadium would be renamed Thomas M. Cooley Law School Stadium, a result of the park's new sponsorship agreement. In March 2010, Lansing-based Jackson National Life Insurance Company purchased the rights to name the field \"Jackson Field\" for 1 year. Thus, the full name of the venue is Jackson Field at Thomas M. Cooley Law School Stadium.\n\nOn March 12, 2014, a $22 million renovation proposal for the stadium was announced named The Outfield. It would include $11 million in public bonds for renovation of the actual stadium structure including new turf, and updated locker rooms, concessions and new box seats. $11 million in additional private investments which would include 80 apartments, a year-round bar and grill, and a new scoreboard. The proposal also includes the city negotiating a new contract with the team which is proposed to bring in an additional 25% revenue for the city.\nOn October 19, 2018, the Michigan State Spartans and Michigan Wolverines had their rivalry match, the Battle for the Mitten, at Cooley Law School Stadium. Michigan State defeated Michigan 25-15.\n\nOn October 25, 2018, the newly planned Lansing Ignite soccer team announced it would begin playing its home games at the stadium. The Ignite ceased operations after just one season.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239373", "title": "Osmanthus", "text": "Osmanthus\n\nOsmanthus is a genus of about 30 species of flowering plants in the family Oleaceae. Most of the species are native to eastern Asia (China, Japan, Korea, Indochina, the Himalayas, etc.) with a few species from the Caucasus, New Caledonia and Sumatra.\n\n\"Osmanthus\" range in size from shrubs to small trees, tall. The leaves are opposite, evergreen, and simple, with an entire, serrated or coarsely toothed margin. The flowers are produced in spring, summer or autumn, each flower being about 1 cm long, white, with a four-lobed tubular-based corolla ('petals'). The flowers grow in small panicles, and in several species have a strong fragrance. The fruit is a small (10–15 mm), hard-skinned dark blue to purple drupe containing a single seed.\n\nSpecies accepted:\nSpecies transferred to \"Cartrema\":\n\n\n\"Osmanthus\" are popular shrubs in parks and gardens throughout the warm temperate zone. Several hybrids and cultivars have been developed. \"Osmanthus\" flower on old wood and produce more flowers if unpruned. A pruned shrub often produces few or no flowers for one to five or more years, before the new growth matures sufficiently to start flowering.\n\nIn Japan, sweet osmanthus (\"gin-mokusei\") is a favorite garden shrub. Its small white flowers appear in short-stalked clusters in late autumn. It has an intense sweet fragrance. A variant with deep golden flowers (\"kin-mokusei\") is also popular.\n\nThe flowers of \"O. fragrans\" are used throughout East Asia for their scent and flavour, which is likened to apricot and peach.\n\nIn China, osmanthus tea (, \"guìhuāchá\") combines sweet osmanthus flowers with black or green tea leaves. Traditional Chinese medicine claims that osmanthus tea improves complexion and helps rid the body of excess nitric oxide, a compound linked to the formation of cancer, diabetes, and renal disease.\nSweet osmanthus and osmanthus tea are particularly associated with the city of Guilin (桂林, literally \"Forest of Sweet Osmanthus\").\n\nOsmanthus wine is prepared by infusing whole \"Osmanthus fragrans\" flowers in huangjiu or other types of rice wine and is traditionally consumed during the Mid-Autumn Festival.\n"}
{"id": "2239379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239379", "title": "Home (1988 TV program)", "text": "Home (1988 TV program)\n\nHome, also referred to as The Home Show, is a daytime informational talk show which aired on ABC from 1988 to 1994.\n\nThe program was co-hosted by Robb Weller and Sandy Hill during the first season.\n\nGary Collins hosted the show for the remainder of its run. Co-hosts included Cristina Ferrare, Dana Fleming, Beth Ruyak and Sarah Purcell. Decorating and craft segments were frequently presented by Hanala Sagal aka Suzan Stadner, Fitness Expert and Sally Marshall, Dian Thomas, Carol Duvall and Kitty Bartholomew. Marc Summers and Wil Shriner presented segments on the latest in technology (computers, home gaming, etc.).\n\nThe show's various directors were Arthur Forrest (who directed the pilot), Booey Kober, Bob Loudin, Jerry Kupcinet, Paul Forrest and Bob Levy.\n\nMother Love joined the show as the announcer in the final season, replacing Bob Hilton.\n\nThe series began as a half-hour program on January 18, 1988; reruns of \"Mr. Belvedere\" filled the four-month long gap between the cancelation of game show \"Bargain Hunters\" and the premiere of \"Home\". After a 60-minute trial run in September 1988, it expanded permanently to an hour in January 1989 (upon the cancellation of \"Ryan's Hope\"), with reruns of \"Growing Pains\" moving from 11 AM to noon. However, some affiliates only carried one half hour of the program (this practice would carry over later to its successor, \"Mike and Maty\"). \"Home\" later expanded to 90 minutes and took over the noon slot once \"Match Game\" was canceled in 1991. The show reverted to 60 minutes in 1992, as the network officially abandoned the noon time slot in favor of giving that time back to local affiliates, which in most cases, pre-empted the final half-hour in favor of local news.\n\nThe series was set to be cancelled in 1993, but this decision was reversed after ABC affiliates expressed dissatisfaction with its planned replacement, the importation of \"The Shirley Show\" from Canada's CTV, hosted by Shirley Solomon (which would later find a home in American syndication). Several stations, however, eventually placed the series in late night timeslots due to ratings issues or giving priority to local lifestyle or talk shows, such as the \"(City)'s Talking\" format seen on several ABC affiliates owned by Hearst Television.\n\nNotwithstanding the temporary reprieve, \"Home\" aired its last broadcast in April 1994; its time slot would be taken over by \"Mike and Maty\" until 1996, when it was replaced by \"\". After only a year, this series was replaced by \"The View\" in 1997, which occupies the time slot to this day and eventually gained back all clearance from the network's affiliates at its proper time.\n\n\"(all times ET)\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2239380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239380", "title": "1927 in British television", "text": "1927 in British television\n\nThis is a list of British television-related events in 1927.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239390", "title": "Battle of Marj Ardabil", "text": "Battle of Marj Ardabil\n\nThe Battle of Marj Ardabil or the Battle of Ardabil was a battle fought on the plains surrounding the city of Ardabil in northwestern Iran in AD 730. A Khazar army led by Barjik, the son of the Khazar khagan, invaded the Umayyad provinces of Jibal and Iranian Azerbaijan in retaliation for Caliphate attacks on Khazaria during the course of the decades-long Khazar-Arab War of the early 8th century.\n\nBarjik's expedition into northern Iran (and later into Kurdistan and northern Mesopotamia) may have been an attempt to establish Khazar rule south of the Caucasus Mountains.\n\nAn outnumbered force led by the Umayyad general al-Jarrah ibn Abdallah engaged the Khazars for three days. Ultimately, abandoned by many of their \"mawali\" auxiliaries, the Caliph's forces were overwhelmed and defeated. During the course of the battle, al-Jarrah was killed. The victorious Barjik mounted his head on top of the throne from which he commanded the battles of his Middle Eastern campaign. According to the historian Agapius, the Arabs suffered 20,000 dead and twice that number captured, a figure which probably includes the population of Ardabil and the surrounding territories.\n\nFollowing their victory, the Khazars occupied Ardabil. The next year, however, Barjik led an army to Mosul and was defeated. According to Muhammad ibn Jarir al-Tabari and other Arab historians, the Muslims were so enraged by Barjik's desecration of their commander's head that they fought with extra vigor. After the defeat at Mosul, the Khazar army withdrew north of the Caucasus Mountains.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239392", "title": "Boon Keng MRT station", "text": "Boon Keng MRT station\n\nBoon Keng MRT station (NE9) is an underground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) station on the North East line in Kallang, Singapore.\n\nLocated underneath Serangoon Road just after the traffic junction with Towner Road and Boon Keng Road, Boon Keng station is within a ten-minute walk to Bendemeer MRT station on the Downtown line. The station was named after Dr Lim Boon Keng, a Chinese physician who promoted health and educational reforms in Singapore.\n\nThe North East line (NEL) Contract 705 for the design and construction of Potong Pasir and Boon Keng stations and associated tunnels was awarded to the joint venture of Kumagai Gumi, Sembawang Engineering & Construction and Mitsui & Corporation on 23 June 1997 for $316.7 million. To facilitate the construction of the station, a part of Bendemeer Shopping Mall was demolished to make way for the construction of this station. The remaining portion of the building continues to be used for retail purposes today.\n\nArt in Transit at this station (\"Metamorphosis\" by Lim Poh Teck) features a bright tropical-themed painting on the concourse level, consisting of icons of everyday life used in the past and present.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239393", "title": "Thatch Cay, U.S. Virgin Islands", "text": "Thatch Cay, U.S. Virgin Islands\n\nThatch Cay is a small, uninhabited 230 acre (931,000 m²) island off the northeastern coast of Saint Thomas. Its highest peak is . It is one of the last privately held, undeveloped islands in the U.S. Virgin Islands.\n\nThe island is named after the Tyre palms, \"Coccothrinax alta\", which are found in thick patches on the island and which slaves would use to make sacks and roofing for their buildings. From 1804, it was owned by the Reyck family of Denmark, which were the first inhabitants, and was home to a small plantation called \"The Hope\" which consisted of fourteen members of the family and two slaves. It is not known exactly when the family relinquished ownership of the island but it is thought to be around the time of purchase of almost the whole chain by the U.S. Government in 1917. In the mid 1900s a small fishing village consisting of 6 small structures was located on the island, as well as a small copper mine. Stone ruins of these structures can still be seen to this day. The cay has also historically been known for the \"Panulirus argus\" lobsters which are found around the island in large numbers.\n\nIn 2000 Thatch Cay was contracted for purchase from the U.S. Virgin Islands Territory Court by Scott McIntyre of Idealight VI LLC as part of Idealight's Luxury Property Development and Corporate Tourism practice. With only 6 planned estates, McIntyre's private, highly eco-friendly design for Thatch Cay included solar powered island-wide wireless networks hubbed in the \"lodge\" to offer residents both family holiday and corporate use. In 2003 McIntyre turned over the project to a San Diego firm which started selling the island.\n"}
{"id": "2239396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239396", "title": "Smartwrap", "text": "Smartwrap\n\nSmartwrap is an ultra-thin polymer-based material made by James Timberlake and Stephen Kieran of Philadelphia architecture firm KieranTimberlake.\n\nThe compound consists of substrate and printed and laminated layers that have been roll-coated into a single film. The resulting film has the capacity to change color and appearance, as well as to provide shelter, control interior climates, and offer light and electricity.\n"}
{"id": "2239401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239401", "title": "Fetal fibronectin", "text": "Fetal fibronectin\n\nFetal fibronectin (fFN) is a fibronectin protein produced by fetal cells. It is found at the interface of the chorion and the decidua (between the fetal sac and the uterine lining).\n\nIt can be thought of as an adhesive or \"biological glue\" that binds the fetal sac to the uterine lining.\n\nFetal fibronectin \"leaks\" into the vagina if a preterm delivery is likely to occur and can be measured in a screening test.\n\nTesting will produce a negative or a positive result. When the fFN test is positive, the result is an excellent predictor of preterm labor risk. A negative result means that there is little possibility of preterm labor within the next 7 to 10 days, and the test can be repeated weekly for women who remain at high risk. A negative fetal fibronectin says that a patient has less than 5% chance of giving birth in the next two weeks. A positive result is a less reliable indicator that a woman will go into preterm labor. A systematic review of the medical literature found that fetal fibronectin is a good predictor of spontaneous preterm birth before cervical dilation. The test may be run on patients between 22 and 34 weeks gestation.\n\nThe test is easily performed and is usually painless. A specimen is collected from the patient using a vaginal swab. The swab is placed in a transport tube and sent to a laboratory for testing. Most labs can easily produce a result in less than one hour.\n\nA false positive fetal fibronectin result can occur if the test is performed after digital examination of the cervix or after having had intercourse. It is important that the swab be taken before a digital vaginal exam is performed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239403", "title": "Kakure Kirishitan", "text": "Kakure Kirishitan\n\nKakure Kirishitan () is a modern term for a member of the Catholic Church that went underground at the start of the Edo period in the early 17th century.\n\nKakure Kirishitans are called the \"hidden\" Christians because they continued to practice Christianity in secret. They worshipped in secret rooms in private homes. As time went on, the figures of the saints and the Virgin Mary were transformed into figurines that looked like the traditional statues of the Buddha and bodhisattvas; depictions of Mary modeled on the Buddhist deity Kannon (Avalokiteśvara), goddess of mercy, became common, and were known as \"Maria Kannon\". The prayers were adapted to sound like Buddhist chant, yet retained many untranslated words from Latin, Portuguese, and Spanish. The Bible and other parts of the liturgy were passed down orally, because printed works could be confiscated by authorities. Because of the official expulsion of the Catholic clergy in the 17th century, the Kakure Christian community relied on lay leaders to lead the services.\n\nIn some cases, the communities drifted away from Christian teachings. They lost the meaning of the prayers and their religion became a version of the cult of ancestors, in which the ancestors happened to be their Christian martyrs.\n\nKakure Kirishitan was recognized by Bernard Petitjean, a Catholic priest, when Ōura Church was built in Nagasaki in 1865. Approximately 30,000 secret Christians, some of whom had adopted these new ways of practicing Christianity, came out of hiding when religious freedom was re-established in 1873 after the Meiji Restoration. The Kakure Kirishitan became known as , or \"ancient\" Christians, and emerged not only from traditional Christian areas in Kyushu, but also from other rural areas of Japan.\n\nThe majority of Kakure Kirishitan rejoined the Catholic Church after renouncing unorthodox, syncretic practices. Some Kakure Kirishitan did not rejoin the Catholic Church, and became known as the Hanare Kirishitan (, separated Christians). Hanare Kirishitan are now primarily found in Urakami and on the Gotō Islands.\n\nFollowing the legalization of Christianity and secularization of Japan, many Hanare Kirishitan lineages ended abruptly. Traditionally, boys learned the rituals and prayers from their fathers; when boys were uninterested or moved away from their homes, no one was left to continue the lineage.\n\nFor a while, Hanare Kirishitans were thought to have died out entirely because of the secretive nature of their practices. A group on Ikitsuki Island in Nagasaki Prefecture, which had been overlooked by the Japanese government, made their beliefs public in the 1980s and now perform their rituals for audiences; however, these practices have acquired some attributes of theatre, such as the telling of folktales and the use of statues and other images which most underground Christians never used.\n\nThe anthropologist Christal Whelan uncovered some Hanare Kirishitans on the Gotō Islands where Kakure Kirishitans had once fled. There were only two surviving priests on the islands, both of whom were over 90, and they would not talk to each other. The few surviving laity had also all reached old age, and some of them no longer had any priests from their lineage and prayed alone. Although these Hanare Kirishitans had a strong tradition of secrecy, they agreed to be filmed for Whelan's documentary \"Otaiya\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239406", "title": "Fillmore West", "text": "Fillmore West\n\nThe Fillmore West was a historic rock and roll music venue in San Francisco, California, which became famous under the direction of concert promoter Bill Graham from 1968 to 1971. Named after The Fillmore at the intersection of Fillmore Street and Geary Boulevard (which served as Graham's principal venue from 1966 to 1968), it stood at the southeast corner of Market Street and South Van Ness Avenue in the Civic Center district. In June 2018, the top two floors of the building reopened as SVN West, a new concert and corporate event venue managed by Non Plus Ultra.\n\nThe Carousel Ballroom was originally a swing-era dance palace. Beginning in 1968, it was briefly operated by a collective formed by the Grateful Dead, Jefferson Airplane, Quicksilver Messenger Service and Big Brother and the Holding Company as a social/musical \"laboratory experiment\". According to critic Joel Selvin, the \"six-month run may well have corresponded with the height of the whole '60s Haight-Ashbury/San Francisco thing.\"\n\nDue to various factors (including the socioeconomic deterioration of the Fillmore District, the modest capacity of The Fillmore, and financial difficulties faced by the collective), Bill Graham moved his prime concert location in July 1968 to this larger venue, less than one mile from the original Fillmore at 1805 Geary Boulevard. He called this venue the Fillmore West (in contrast with Graham's Fillmore East auditorium in New York City).\n\nThe Celestial Synapse was a musical event held at the Fillmore West on the evening of 19 February 1969. At least 3,000 people attended the event, hosted by the Frontiers of Science Fellowship. The performance began with a Tibetan Buddhist monk playing Tibetan gongs, and Grateful Dead played a set.\n\nThe Grateful Dead were among the regulars at the Fillmore West, playing 64 concerts (including 18 under the imprimatur of the Carousel Ballroom) from 1968 through 1971.\n\nAfter three years, Graham closed the Fillmore West on July 4, 1971, with five nights of shows featuring such San Francisco bands as Santana, Creedence Clearwater Revival, the Grateful Dead and Quicksilver Messenger Service (who headlined the final performance at the venue) and a poetry reading from Allen Ginsberg. A documentary film of the last several concerts, called \"Fillmore\", and a three-disc album, called \"\", were released in 1972.\n\nAfter serving as a Honda car dealership for many years, the venue was remade into a music venue and event space called SVN West. Its first concert, a benefit, was held on June 14, 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239410", "title": "Team Bianchi", "text": "Team Bianchi\n\nTeam Bianchi was a makeshift team that was put together from the remnants of the Coast team in time for the 2003 Tour de France.\n\nTeam Coast had been unable to pay the salaries of their riders and Bianchi took over the team and the role of title sponsor. Coast had recently signed Jan Ullrich following his departure from after his drunk driving and amphetamine use. During the 2003 tour while riding for Bianchi, Ullrich placed second to Lance Armstrong by just 61 seconds, his closest ever margin in any of Armstrong's seven victorious years. In the process, Ullrich also managed to upstage Alexander Vinokourov, Telekom's highest-placed rider, who finished third.\n\nTeam Bianchi had planned to continue on as a professional road racing team. However, Ullrich's return to his former team Telekom (later T-Mobile and ), as well as the departure of Ángel Casero led to the demise of Team Bianchi as they now lacked the star power necessary to justify a top tier team.\n"}
{"id": "2239411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239411", "title": "Woodleigh MRT station", "text": "Woodleigh MRT station\n\n\"\n\nWoodleigh MRT station (NE11) is an underground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) station on the North East line, located in the planning subzone of Bidadari, in Toa Payoh, Singapore underneath Upper Serangoon Road, at the junction with Upper Aljunied Road and Youngberg Terrace. The station is built on part of the former Bidadari Cemetery, and will serve the upcoming Bidadari estate.\n\nWoodleigh station currently has one of the lowest riderships on the MRT network, particularly due to the lack of development in its vicinity.\n\nBy 2022, Woodleigh station will be connected to a mixed development shopping mall nearby, and a new Bidadari Bus Interchange, which will be located under the mall, with direct access to the station concourse. Many HDB Blocks and condominiums in the vicinity are currently under constructions, and once they are completed, Woodleigh MRT would serve the new Bidadari residential estate. \n\nWhen the North East line opened, it was one of the 2 completed MRT stations in the entire system that was non-operational, the other being Buangkok which was opened on 15 January 2006 prior to the opening of the Circle line. It was closed for 8 years because of low development in the vicinity. Art In Transit artwork in this station is \"Slow Motion\" by April Ng Kiow Ngor. Part of the station's interior was shown on an episode of \"Building the Biggest\" on Discovery Channel.\n\nIt was estimated that if the station was opened, its daily ridership would be under the 2,000 general benchmark deemed necessary for a station to make economic sense to operate. However, on 8 March 2011, SBS Transit announced the opening of the station on 20 June that year.\n\nOn the eve of the grand opening, maintenance on the lifts, escalators and fare gates was conducted and the platform was polished. The station was officially opened on that day by Minister for Transport, Mr Lui Tuck Yew to celebrate the 8th anniversary of the opening of the North East line in 2003.\n\nPublished information in the Singapore Master Plan as well as several reports in the newspapers have mentioned a planned major housing project where the former Bidadari Cemetery sat. Existing nearby condominiums include Avon Park, Euro-Asia Park and Blossoms at Woodleigh. There are also several new condominium projects under development in the area including, Parc Mondrian, Park Colonial, The Woodleigh Residences and 8@Woodleigh. Other buildings around it include a Salvation Army stockhouse and a few shophouses.\n\nThe station is close to several schools such as Maris Stella High School, Stamford American International School permanent campus, Cedar Primary School and Cedar Girls' Secondary School. The Central Expressway, Pan Island Expressway and Potong Pasir MRT station are just minutes away, allowing quick and easy access to the city and the CBD. Mount Vernon, which is nearby, houses the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and the Mount Vernon Camp.\n\nCash top ups are not accepted at the passenger service centres from 5 January 2018 at this station.\n\nOn 18 April 2017, Woodleigh station was closed for about three hours after a suspicious substance was found in various areas in the station. At 1.49pm, SBS Transit announced that all trains will skip Woodleigh station due to a \"security incident\". The station subsequently reopened at 4.20 pm after police established the substance to be baking flour.\n\nA 69-year-old man has been arrested for causing public alarm. Two other men, aged 53 and 70, are assisting police with investigations. This was the second security incident in more than two weeks after Hougang MRT station was temporarily shut down on 2 April 2017. Preliminary investigations show that the trio were helping to mark a hashing trail before a run organised by the Seletar Hash House Harriers took place.\n\nWoodleigh MRT currently has three exits along Upper Serangoon Road. However, in the future, two more exits are planned to be built, with one alongside Upper Aljunied Road, and another linking to the future Bidadari Bus Interchange\n\n"}
{"id": "2239413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239413", "title": "Roko Tui Namata", "text": "Roko Tui Namata\n\nThe Roko Tui Namata is the title of the Paramount Chief of the Namata district in Fiji's Tailevu Province. The chiefly family of Namata is closely related to that of Bau, with frequent intermarriage between them. Adi Viniana Gavoka, the first wife of Ratu Sir George Cakobau, the late Governor-General and Vunivalu of Bau, was the daughter of the late Roko Tui Namata, Ratu Inoke Mara.\n"}
{"id": "2239431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239431", "title": "Llysfaen", "text": "Llysfaen\n\nLlysfaen is a village and community in Conwy County Borough overlooking the north coast of Wales, and situated on the hill Mynydd Marian. For local government purposes, it is also a ward. The community includes the Peulwys estate of Old Colwyn.\n\nLlysfaen located one kilometre (0.6 miles) inland, halfway between the coastal towns of Abergele and Colwyn Bay. Neighbouring villages include Old Colwyn, Llanddulas, Dolwen and Betws-yn-Rhos. To its immediate west is Mynydd Marian, a mountain known for its limestone grassland and the rare dwarf subspecies of the silver-studded blue butterfly, and Craig y Forwyn is to the east. Llysfaen also overlooks the Irish sea, as well as Kinmel Bay, Rhyl, and the Clwydian Range.\n\nThe council ward, including the village centre and surrounding precincts, occupies 5.11 square kilometres (1,260 acres, 511 hectares). The community's population has remained relatively static in recent times and was 2,652 at the census held in 2001.\n\nThe community is currently part of Conwy County Borough. However, it historically formed an exclave of Caernarfonshire assumed by the surrounding Denbighshire in 1923; subsequent local government reorganisation saw it administered as part of Clwyd (1974–1996).\n\nThe name, \"Llysfaen\" is Welsh for \"stone court\" (i.e. a court built of stone).\n\nThroughout much of Llysfaen's recent history, many of its villagers worked at the nearby Llysfaen and Llanddulas Limestone Quarry from where lime was shipped to Liverpool or Fleetwood using Raynes Jetty in Llanddulas Bay.\n\nThe village has a small number of facilities including a primary school, Ysgol Cynfran, accepting pupils from nursery age to 11; a convenience store; the mediaeval St. Cynfran's parish church (see below); the village hall; a playgroup; three parks, two telephone boxes, and two post boxes. There is now only one drinking establishment, also a restaurant- The Semaphore. A micro pub has been opened in the village recently.\nA Mobile Library run by Conwy Library Service also calls at the village every three weeks.\n\nLlysfaen currently has a number of youth football teams catering for ages from 7 to 18 and a men's team too. A majority of the teams' games are played on the village's Banana Pitch, so called because it dips heavily in the middle. The names of the teams are themed on big cats (e.g. the Snow Leopards, the Bobcats and Lions).\n\nLlysfaen has a bowling green which is home to a locally well-known lawn bowls team and a MUGA where netball, tennis and hockey is played.\n\nThe patron saint of Llysfaen is Saint Cynfran, who is traditionally believed to have, in 777, founded the eponymous church in the village, above whose entrance is a carving in rock of the saint. The primary school is also named after Cynfran.\n\nIn the 1254 Norwich Taxation, Llysfaen was recorded as \"Ecc'a de Llesvaen\", and in the 1291 taxation as \"Rectoria di Lisnaen\" and taxed at £4.\n\nSt. Cynfran's church has been rebuilt a number of times; the current twin-naved building is said to date from 1377 but is believed to incorporate stones from the original church. In 1870, the building was the subject of an extensive £1,950 internal restoration with only a few panels remaining from the Middle Ages, although the mediaeval stone walls remain. The rectilinear churchyard contains memorials going back as far as the 17th century. The churchyard is surrounded by a stone wall with yew trees both in and outside the walls, and there is a holy well, the Ffynnon Gynfran, about 100 metres to the north.\n\nThe ancient parish of Llysfaen was an exclave of the cwmwd (equivalent to a hundred) of Creuddyn within the county of Caernarfonshire, and comprised the townships of Isallt, Isyffordd, Pant (or \"Tre'r Pant\"), Penmaen and Rhwngyddwyffordd. According to the Royal Commission of the Welsh Church, the then parish had a population of 585 in 1831 rising to 1,489 in 1901.\n\nThe parish was originally slightly larger than today with an area of 1,772 acres (7.17 square kilometres) in the 1840s. In 1872, part of the parish was lost to Colwyn but the township of Twynnan was gained from Llanelian-yn-Rhos. Around 1910 the parish had increased to 1,879 acres (7.6 square kilometres).\n\nIn 1873, the local lime quarrying firm, Raynes & Co. Ltd, was established by James Trevelyan Raynes II to make sodium carbonate and limestone dust for use in glass manufacture.\n\n\nA Llysfaen electoral ward exists, coterminous with the boundaries of Llysfaen community. One county councillor is elected to Conwy County Borough Council. At the May 2017 election the seat changed hands, being won by the Conservative Party from Labour, who had held the seat since the first election in 1995.\n\nLlysfaen also elects community councillors to represent them on Llysfaen Community Council, from the community wards of Peulwys and Upper Llysfaen.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239432", "title": "Nature Reviews Neurology", "text": "Nature Reviews Neurology\n\nNature Reviews Neurology is a peer-reviewed journal for neurologists. The journal was renamed from Nature Clinical Practice Neurology in April 2009. It covers research developments and clinical practice. Coverage includes prevention, diagnosis and treatment of disease or impaired function of the central and peripheral nervous systems, including neurodevelopmental, neurodegenerative, and neuropsychiatric disorders.\n\nIndexed by ISI Nature Reviews Neurology received an impact factor of 21.155 as reported in the 2018 Journal Citation Reports, ranking it second out of 199 journals in the category \"Clinical Neurology\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2239433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239433", "title": "Cartrema americana", "text": "Cartrema americana\n\nCartrema americana, commonly called American olive, wild olive, or devilwood, is an evergreen shrub or small tree native to southeastern North America, in the United States from Virginia to Texas, and in Mexico from Nuevo León south to Oaxaca and Veracruz.\n\n\"Cartrema americana\" was formerly classified as \"Osmanthus americanus\". Following the discovery that \"Osmanthus\" was polyphyletic, it was transferred to the segregate genus \"Cartrema\" together with \"Osmanthus floridanus\" and five Asian species.\n\n\"Cartrema americana\" grows to , rarely to tall. The leaves are long and broad, with an entire margin. Its flowers, produced in early spring, are small (1 cm long), white, with a four-lobed corolla and have a strong fragrance. The fruit is a globose dark blue drupe diameter, containing a single seed.\n\nIt is cultivated as an ornamental plant in gardens for its fragrant flowers.\n"}
{"id": "2239438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239438", "title": "SS Île de France", "text": "SS Île de France\n\nThe SS \"Île de France\" was a French ocean liner that was built in Saint-Nazaire, France, for the Compagnie Générale Transatlantique (or CGT, also known as the \"French Line\"). The ship was named after the region around Paris known as \"L'Ile de France\", launched in 1926 and commenced her maiden voyage on June 22, 1927. It was the first major ocean liner built after World War I, and was the first liner ever to be decorated almost entirely with modern designs associated with the Art Deco style. She was neither the largest ship nor the fastest, but was considered the most beautifully decorated ship built by CGT, becoming the favored ship of the pre-World War II era, carrying young, wealthy and fashionable Americans to Europe and back. \n\nAll of the ship's luxurious fittings were removed for its conversion into a prison ship during World War II. After the war, \"Île de France\" resumed transatlantic operations. In 1956, she played a key role in rescuing passengers from the SS \"Andrea Doria\" after the latter ship's fatal collision with the MS \"Stockholm\" off Nantucket. Her last hurrah came just before she was scrapped in 1959, \"starring\" in the movie \"The Last Voyage\" as a doomed ocean liner, and actually being partially sunk, while scenes were being filmed with actors playing their parts in the flooded ship. She was subsequently refloated and taken to Japan to be scrapped. The movie was released in 1960.\n\nThe construction of the \"Île de France\" was part of an agreement between the Compagnie Générale Transatlantique (CGT) and the French government dating to November 1912. This agreement was for the construction of four passenger-mail ships, with the first ship named and the second, \"Île de France\". World War I delayed construction until the 1920s, with the \"Paris\" being launched in 1916 and not entering service until 1921. After its keel was laid down in 1925, the \"Île de France\" was launched on 14 March 1926 at the shipyard Ateliers et Chantiers de Saint-Nazaire Penhoët (or Chantiers de Penhoët) in Saint-Nazaire on the west coast of France, and was greeted by thousands of government and company officials, workers, press and French citizens. The ship would experience fourteen months of fitting-out before it left the shipyards in 1927 to begin sea trials on 29 May, and then for its maiden voyage on 22 June. \n\nIn 1926, the CGT had released an elaborate booklet with a gold cover devoted entirely to promoting the company's new ship. The illustrations depicted huge and elegant but modern public rooms with female passengers carrying feather fans and smoking cigarettes, and passengers being led around the uncluttered sun deck.\n\nThe trend in ship interior design up to this point, including the , the and the , all had interiors that celebrated various styles of the past, and which could be found in the most expensive, upper-class manors or châteaux on land. In contrast, the interiors of the \"Île de France\" represented something new: for the first time, a ship's passenger spaces had been designed not to reproduce decorative styles of the past, but to celebrate the progressive style of the present, with a degree of modernity unlike any previous ship. The first-class dining room's decor was simple, in contrast to past styles which had vied with each other regarding extent of decoration and detail. The first class dining room was also the largest of any ship existing at the time, rising through three decks high with a grand staircase as its entrance.\n\nIn addition to the luxurious dining room, there was also a grand foyer that was open to four decks, a chapel in the neo-gothic style, a shooting gallery, an elaborate gymnasium, and even a merry-go-round for the younger passengers. Every cabin, including the least luxurious, had beds instead of bunks. Even many of the chairs been given a new designs.\n\nAs each of the major liner companies subsequently planned their next passenger ships, many of the planners visited this extraordinary and trend-setting French vessel.\n\nAfter its sea trials, the \"Île de France\" traveled to its home port of Le Havre on June 5, 1927. The novelty of Art Deco aboard a ship was an immediate sensation and the reaction of the visiting press would be evident by favorable reviews the next week.\n\nOn June 22, 1927 the \"Île de France\" traveled from Le Havre for its maiden voyage to New York. Upon its arrival in New York it received great attention from the American media and thousands of people crowded the docks just to see the new ship.\n\nHer official accommodation was for 1,786 passengers, but her normal capacity was closer to 1400. With a listed capacity of 537 in first-class, the \"Île de France\", like the and \"Paris\", became fashionable. Captain Joseph Blancart and his chief purser, Henri Villar, became celebrities.\n\nWith the contribution made by this splendid vessel, the CGT ended the year 1928 with record earnings. For the first time the company's receipts exceeded a billion francs, and half of this derived from the New York service, which had transported more than 90,000 passengers. Its popularity was such that by 1935, the ship had carried more first-class passengers than any other transatlantic liner.\n\nThe ship was popular especially among wealthy Americans. It quickly became the chosen ship of the youthful, the stylish, and the famous. But they did not choose it for its speed – it was about as fast as the \"Aquitania\" of 1914, and no larger. In 1936 it was immortalised in the song A Fine Romance performed by Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers in the film Swing Time with the lyric \"You're just as hard to land as the Île de France\".\n\nEven though the \"Île de France\" was not the fastest vessel in the world, it briefly pioneered the quickest mail system between Europe and the United States. In July 1928, a seaplane catapult was installed at the ship's stern for trials with two CAMS 37 flying boats that launched when the ship was within 200 miles, which decreased the mail delivery time by one day. This practice proved too costly, however, and in October 1930 the catapult was removed and the service discontinued.\n\nIn 1935 the \"Île de France\" and the \"Paris\" were joined by a new mate, the new superliner SS \"Normandie\". With these three ships the CGT could boast of having the largest, fastest, and most luxurious ships traveling the north Atlantic.\n\nBut this was not to endure, and two events ended the CGT's new prosperity. The first occurred on April 18, 1939, when the \"Paris\" was destroyed by fire while docked in Le Havre. The second was on September 1, 1939 when Nazi Germany invaded Poland which began World War II and ended civilian (as opposed to military) transatlantic traffic.\n\n\"Île de France\" was the last civilian ship to leave France before the outbreak of war. She departed from Le Havre on the morning of September 3, 1939, just hours before France and the United Kingdom declared war on Germany. (The last ship to leave Europe during the war would be the paquebot \"Jamaique\" that left in May 1940 from Bordeaux to South America). The \"Île de France\" carried 1,777 passengers, 400 more than her usual number. Most of the passengers were Americans, many of whom were tourists clamouring to leave France before the war broke out. During the voyage, the passengers were not only inconvenienced by the overcrowded conditions, but their activities were limited because the ship sailed with her lights extinguished. Other ships were not so lucky. The \"Île de France\" arrived in New York harbor on September 9 and, while she was crossing the Atlantic Ocean, 16 vessels were sunk by torpedoes, mines, or gunfire.\n\nOnce the \"Île de France\" was berthed at its New York pier, her career as a passenger ship was temporarily ended. Since the French were not anxious to return the ship to its homeland, she was towed to Staten Island by ten tugs and was laid up after special dredging that cost $30,000. Her crew of 800 persons was reduced to a security staff of 100 while she was inoperative for the next five months. Then during March 1940, commanded by the British Admiralty, to which it had been lent, the ship was loaded with 12,000 tons of war materials, submarine oil, tanks, shells, and several uncrated bombers that were stowed on the aft open decks. On 1 May 1940 she departed for Europe, veiled in gray and black. From there, she traveled to Singapore where, after the Fall of France, she was officially seized by the British. In 1941 she returned to New York and made several crossings from the northeast as a troop ship such as the one on February 14, 1944, sailing from Halifax, Nova Scotia, to Greenock, Scotland, carrying among others the 814th Tank Destroyer Battalion.\n\nIn August, 1942, the three-funnelled \"Île de France\" tied up alongside the Charl Malan Quay in Port Elizabeth, South Africa. She had been escorted part of the way by various RAF squadrons based on the West Coast of Africa, including No.204 Squadron on 13 June 1942. During one of her visits to the city she was subjected to one of the less happy events to befall this magnificent ship. Furniture, chandeliers, carpets, fittings, all the evidences of her former luxury, including hundreds of square feet of rare and beautiful panelling, were ruthlessly torn out and flung on the quayside as \"she was gutted as thoroughly as a herring\".\n\nA small party of workmen fitted the luxury liner out as a floating prisoner of war camp, \"with festoons of barbed wire sprouting from her decks and disfiguring her graceful lines\" as the ship was prepared for the task of bringing POWs back from north Africa.\n\nIn October, 1942, the \"Île de France\" was spotted off Port Elizabeth, by aircraft of the South African Air Force. While in the city she was converted into a troopship. The extensive alterations, the largest ever undertaken in the harbour, was completed in 1943.\n\nIn autumn 1945, the \"Île de France\" was returned to the CGT after five years of military service with the British Admiralty. In honour of its wartime performance, the Southern Railway company named one of its locomotives \"French Line CGT\".\nAt first the \"Île de France\" was used to ferry American and Canadian troops home. Then in April 1947, the ship returned to its builder's yard at Saint Nazaire for a two-year restoration. The outcome included the removal of its third \"dummy\" funnel and an upturn of the straight black hull to meet its upper forepeak, in keeping with the new style of the CGT's ships beginning with the \"Normandie\" in 1935. These changes increased \"Ile de France\"'s gross tonnage to 44,356.\n\nShe travelled to New York on her first postwar luxury crossing in July 1949. The \"Île de France\" proved to be just as popular as before the war. In 1950 the ship received a new running mate, \"Liberté\", the former German Blue Riband-holder .\n\nIn 1949 \"Île de France\" was the setting for part of the first act of the Jules Styne Broadway musical \"Gentlemen Prefer Blondes\" starring Carol Channing.\n\nOn September 21, 1953, the \"Île De France\" rescued 25 of the 26 man crew off the Liberian freighter \"Greenville\" which was damaged and later sunk in an Atlantic tropical storm.\n\nOn July 26, 1956, the \"Île de France\" had a major role in the rescue operation after the collision of the passenger liners and MS \"Stockholm\" off Nantucket. Of 1,706 passengers and crew of the \"Andrea Doria\", approximately 753 were transferred to the \"Île de France\" during the approximately 6-hour rescue operation.\n\nWith the development of jet transport, and the decline of ocean travel, the CGT wished to dispose of the ship quietly. In 1959, the ship was sold to a Japanese breaker and departed Le Havre on February 16.\nJust before being scrapped, the \"Île de France\" was used as a floating prop for the 1960 Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer disaster film \"The Last Voyage\" with the fictional name SS \"Claridon.\" During filming, the ship was partially sunk, explosive devices were detonated in the interior, and the forward funnel was sent crashing into the deck-house. The CGT sued MGM to have the ship's funnels repainted and prohibit the name \"Île de France\" from appearing on the ship in the movie.\n\nIn 1931 the ninth floor restaurant in Eaton's Department Store, Montreal, Canada, was styled after the first class restaurant aboard the ship. Lady Eaton, the store owner's wife, had just travelled transatlantic on the liner and requested the style of the \"Ile de France\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239439", "title": "Drumsurn", "text": "Drumsurn\n\nDrumsurn () is a small village and townland in County Londonderry, Northern Ireland. It is southeast of Limavady and northeast of Dungiven. It lies in the Roe Valley, at the foot of Donald's Hill and at the edge of the Sperrins. Drumsurn had a population of 357 people in the 2001 Census. It is situated within Causeway Coast and Glens district.\n\nDrumsurn is mainly residential with educational, social, and recreational facilities. These include the high quality recreation grounds and community centre at St Matthew's GAC to the south of the village. There is a limited range of commercial services. More than 95% of the village's population is Catholic.\n\nDuring the Troubles, loyalist paramilitaries exploded a car bomb outside O’Connor's Supply House in the centre of the village on 26 July 1973. There was considerable damage but no casualties.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239441", "title": "Poast Town, Ohio", "text": "Poast Town, Ohio\n\nPoast Town is an unincorporated community located in northeastern Madison Township, Butler County, Ohio, United States, on State Route 4, about one mile north of Middletown in Section 12 of T2R4 of the Congress Lands. It was laid out in 1818 by Peter Post as the town of West Liberty. A post office with the name Poast Town was established in 1848 but closed in 1934. Mail is provided through the Middletown post office, it is located in the Middletown telephone exchange. It is in the Madison Local School District.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239442", "title": "IEC 60446", "text": "IEC 60446\n\nInternational standard IEC 60446 Basic and safety principles for man-machine interface, marking and identification - Identification of equipment terminals, conductor terminations and conductors defines basic safety principles for identifying electrical conductors by colours or numerals, for example in electricity distribution wiring. The standard has been withdrawn; the fourth edition (IEC 60446:2007) was merged in 2010 into the fifth edition of IEC 60445 along with the fourth edition, IEC 60445:2006.\n\nThe standard permits the following colours for identifying conductors:\n\nIf a circuit includes a neutral or midpoint conductor, then it should be identified by a blue colour (preferably light blue). Light blue is the color used to identify intrinsically safe conductors, and must not be used for any other type of conductor.\n\nThe preferred colours for AC phase conductors are:\nFor a single AC phase: brown\n\nThe colour combination green/yellow is always and exclusively used to identify the protective conductor. On any 15 mm length of the conductor, one of these two colours should cover between 30% and 70% of the area and the other the remaining area.\n\nInsulated PEN conductors (combined protective earth + neutral in TN–C systems) should be marked:\nThe cable must have a cross section of 16 mm (5 AWG) or greater.\n\nThe three countries United States, Canada and Japan are mentioned in a note in the standard for using different colours:\n\nBritish Standard BS 7671:2001 Amendment No 2:2004 adopted the IEC 60446 colours for fixed wiring in the United Kingdom , with the extension that grey can also be used for line conductors, such that three colours are available for three-phase installations. This extension is expected to be adopted across Europe and may even find its way into a future revision of IEC 60446.\n\nWhere conductors are in addition identified by letters and numbers, then:\nGreen-and-yellow conductors must not be marked.\n\nExamples: L1, L2, L3, N, L+, L−, M, 35, 1\n\n"}
{"id": "2239443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239443", "title": "Kōshien Station", "text": "Kōshien Station\n\nThis station has two elevated island platforms and a side platform serving four tracks, and an additional side track is located in the west of the platforms. There was also a side platform to the north of Track 1 till autumn 2014. Ticket gates are located at the east and the west, and there is stadium exit from the side platform serving Track 4 to the west.\n\nEvery year from 2011 till 2014, the 2 side platforms were closed for removal work from November till mid-March and boarded from late March till October for the events. One to the north of Track 1 was removed in November 2014 to locate new Track 1 and widen the eastbound platform, completed on February 21, 2015. The other was also removed to locate new Track 4 and the new side platform and widen the westbound platform, completed on March 14.\n\n2 elevators were situated on October 26, 2013, one for each platform connecting to the west gate.\n\nOn June 8, 2011, Hanshin Electric Railway announced plans to renovate Koshien Station from autumn 2011, with work completed by spring 2017. Of four platforms at the station, a side platform for unloading eastbound trains was removed and the remaining three platforms were widened to accommodate an elevator connecting the west gate on each platform and another elevator connecting the east gate on each of the two platforms used for boarding trains. The west gate was widened to ease access to Hanshin Koshien Stadium, covering a camphor tree in the south of the station. The east entrance is situated near the east gate making it easier for passengers to access the eastern area of the station. A large roof covers the center of the platforms and the tracks.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239444", "title": "John Isaac Thornycroft", "text": "John Isaac Thornycroft\n\nSir John Isaac Thornycroft (1 February 1843 – 28 June 1928) was an English shipbuilder, the founder of the Thornycroft shipbuilding company and member of the Thornycroft family.\n\nHe was born in 1843 to Mary Francis and Thomas Thornycroft. He attended the Regent Street Polytechnic and then the Royal School of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering at South Kensington and at the same time, he began building the steam launch \"Nautilus\" in his father's study. \"Nautilus\" was a fast boat with a reliable engine (also built by Thornycroft), and in 1862 it proved to be the first steam launch with enough speed to follow the contenders in the University race. The ensuing publicity prompted his father to purchase a strip of land along the Thames, adjacent to Chesterman's yard at Chiswick in 1864, and that became the start of John Thornycroft's shipbuilding career.\n\nIn 1866 Thornycroft took over Chesterman's yard completely, and John I. Thornycroft & Company was formally established, but at the beginning, John Thornycroft did not work there full-time. Instead he worked for a while at Palmers Shipbuilding and Iron Company in Jarrow-on-Tyne before studying for a diploma in engineering at the University of Glasgow. At Glasgow he studied under Lord Kelvin and Professor Macquorn Rankine. \n\nIn 1870, Thornycroft married Blanche Ada Coules (1846–1936) and they had two sons and five daughters. Three of their children, John Edward Thornycroft, Blanche Thornycroft and Isaac Thomas (known as Tom) Thornycroft would go on to be involved in the family business. Edith Alice; Mary Beatrix; Ada Francis; and Eldred Elizabeth do not seem to have been involved. \n\nOn his return from Scotland Thornycroft built the fast steam yacht \"Miranda\" in 1871, and thereby proved that small vessels could obtain speeds that were not thought possible at the time.\nThe exploits of \"Miranda\" gave rise to further orders of similar vessels, including \"Gitana\", built in 1876 and capable of , which was an astonishing speed at the time. Besides the yacht sales, Thornycroft found an even more lucrative business building torpedo boats. It started with for Norway in 1873, a light vessel built of thin steel plates. The early torpedo boats were designed for spar torpedoes, but when a new generation of self-propelled torpedoes arrived from Whitehead in 1876, the torpedo boat really found its form. Thornycroft designed HMS \"Lightning\" for the Royal Navy, on the lines of \"Gitana\", and orders started mounting. John Thornycroft was not the only supplier of torpedo boats, but his influence was so big that the \"Encyclopedia of Ships and Shipping\" characterised him as \"the founder of the torpedo-boat industry\".\n\nThe weight of the boiler system (of the locomotive type) precluded speeds over , and Thornycroft set out to work on an improved system. Water-tube boilers already existed, and Thornycroft built the river-steamer \"Peace\" in 1882 with that type of boilers, of the Herreshoff design. In 1885 his improved system was ready, and it became one of the most important of the 50–60 patents he obtained between 1873 and 1924. Built with the new boilers, the Spanish \"Ariete\" reached on trials in 1887, and in 1894 the yard delivered the torpedo gunboat HMS \"Speedy\" to the Royal Navy, which was the first ship with water-tube boilers in that Navy.\n\nLike other engineers before and after him, Thornycroft tried to solve the problem of how to reduce rolling in ships. He bought the yacht \"Cecile\" of 300 tons and installed a device consisting of a 6-ton moveable watertank, controlled by hydraulic cylinders. John Thornycoft presented his results to the Institution of Naval Architects in 1892, but although his invention was able to dampen rolling, it was not proceeded with.\n\nIn 1894, Thornycroft and his employee Sydney W. Barnaby were some of the first to record the effects of cavitation during the tests of the destroyer \"Daring\". The tests revealed that the narrow blade screws of the day ceased to be effective at high speeds, and as a result the screws were replaced by a new wider blade model. The old screws would do at , while the new ones delivered with the same power.\n\nJohn Thornycroft entered a new field of business in 1896, when he built a steam-powered lorry for his local Chiswick Urban District, and formed the \"Thornycroft Steam Carriage and Wagon Company\". More followed, and in 1901 he made a breakthrough by winning the War Office's competition for heavy lorries for military use. In 1898 the company opened a new factory for lorries in Basingstoke, and Thornycroft's quickly grew to become the town's largest employer. Later, the company also began building combustion-engine vehicles, and production continued at Basingstoke until 1969.\n\nIn his quest for still faster vessels, John Thornycroft made several tests with different hull-shapes, eventually settling on a stepped hull for fast motor boats. This hull shape would almost lift the boat out of the water, facilitating high speeds. In 1910, John I. Thornycroft & Company designed and built a boat called \"Miranda IV\". She was a single-step hydroplane powered by a Thornycroft petrol engine and could reach . In 1915, John Thornycroft suggested that the Royal Navy might use a fast motor boat – armed with torpedoes – for coastal service, and in January 1916 the company received an order for twelve boats, which formed the beginning of a long line of \"Coastal Motor Boats\" delivered to the Royal Navy and later to other navies also. The Hovercraft Museum holds a number of hull models that John Thornycroft used for his experiments, using air-flow as a mean of lifting boats out of the water. The oldest dates back to 1877.\n\nHe was knighted in the 1902 Coronation Honours, receiving the accolade from King Edward VII at Buckingham Palace on 24 October that year.\n\nJohn Thornycroft died in 1928 and was widely commemorated for his inventions and engineering skills. His son John Edward Thornycroft (1872–1960) and grandson John Ward Thornycroft (1899–1989) both served as chairmen of \"John I. Thornycroft & Company\". His daughter Blanche Thornycroft (1873–1950) was heavily involved in the family business and her father's experiments, and continued to test model hulls for the company for at least ten years after her father’s death in 1928.\n\nThe Thornycroft company name disappeared from the motoring business in the 1960s and from shipbuilding on 1 November 2001, when \"Vosper Thornycroft\" became \"VT Group plc\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2239445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239445", "title": "D'eux", "text": "D'eux\n\nD'eux (French for \"Of Them, \"About Them\", or \"From Them\"; homophonic with , meaning \"two\") is the third French-language studio album on a major label by Canadian singer Celine Dion, released by Columbia Records on 30 March 1995 in Canada and on 3 April 1995 in France. It was issued in other countries in the following months. In the United States, it was released under the title The French Album. \"D'eux\" was preceded by the lead hit single, \"Pour que tu m'aimes encore\". The album was mainly written and produced by French singer-songwriter, Jean-Jacques Goldman. It garnered favorable reviews from music critics and became the best-selling French-language album of all time, with sales of over ten million copies worldwide.\n\n\"D'eux\" was recorded in the Mega Studio in Paris, France, in November and December 1994. Jean-Jacques Goldman, a popular French singer and songwriter, wrote and produced eleven songs on the album. One track, \"Cherche encore\", was written by Erick Benzi. The album includes a duet with Goldman on \"J'irai où tu iras\", two successful singles \"Pour que tu m'aimes encore\" and \"Je sais pas\", and a song dedicated to Dion's niece who had died of cystic fibrosis, \"Vole\". The latter three tracks were recorded later in English as \"If That's What It Takes\", \"I Don't Know\" and \"Fly\" respectively, and were included on Dion's next album, \"Falling into You\". \"D'eux\" was released on 30 March 1995 in Canada and on 3 April 1995 in France. It was also issued in other European countries between April and November 1995, and in the United States in May 1995. \"D'eux\" was also released in January 1996 in New Zealand, and in October 1996 in Japan. Dion's 2007 album title, \"D'elles\", refers to \"D'eux\", being the specifically feminine version.\n\nThe lead single, \"Pour que tu m'aimes encore\", was released in Quebec and in France in March 1995. It was also issued in other selected countries in the next months. \"Pour que tu m'aimes encore\" was very successful in Francophone countries. It topped the chart in France for twelve weeks and in Wallonian Belgium for fifteen consecutive weeks. The song also reached number one in Quebec and stayed there for four weeks. It became the best-selling single of the year 1995 in both France and Wallonia. In France alone, \"Pour que tu m'aimes encore\" has sold nearly one million copies. The song was also successful in other countries, reaching the top ten in Belgium Flanders, the Netherlands and Sweden. Most notably, it also peaked inside the top ten in the United Kingdom and Ireland, which was an exceptional achievement for a French-language song. On the European Hot 100 Singles, \"Pour que tu m'aimes encore\" reached number four.\n\nThe second single, \"Je sais pas\", was released in Quebec in July 1995, in Belgium in August 1995 and in France in October 1995. It topped the charts in France (for seven weeks), Wallonia (for two weeks) and Quebec (for four weeks). On the European Hot 100 Singles, the song peaked at number seven. \"Je sais pas\" became one of the best-selling singles in France and Wallonia in 1995, reaching respectively numbers six and nine on the year-end charts. In France, \"Je sais pas\" has sold over half a million copies.\n\n\"Le ballet\" was issued in France in January 1996 as a promotional single. It reached number five on the Airplay Chart and was included as B-side on the next commercial single released in France, \"Falling into You\". Due to the success of \"D'eux\", radio stations in Quebec started playing \"Destin\" in January 1996. The song spent over eight months on the Airplay Chart, peaking at number three. In May 1996, radio stations in Quebec also started playing \"J'irai où tu iras\", a duet with Jean-Jacques Goldman. This song reached number fourteen on the Quebec Airplay Chart. All singles from \"D'eux\" appeared on Dion's 2005 greatest hits album, \"On ne change pas\".\n\nDion promoted \"D'eux\" on television in Quebec and in France in late March and early April 1995. In mid-June 1995, she performed \"Pour que tu m'aimes encore\" in the United States on \"Good Morning America\" and \"The Tonight Show\". These were her first performances of a French-language song on American television. She also taped the performance of \"Pour que tu m'aimes encore\" in New York for the British music chart television programme, \"Top of the Pops\". In September 1995, Dion embarked on the D'eux Tour, starting with concerts in Quebec. Later, between October 1995 and February 1996, she performed over forty concerts in Europe. The shows at the Zénith de Paris were recorded and released as the \"Live à Paris\" CD and \"Live à Paris\" home video in 1996.\n\nAt the Juno Awards of 1996, \"D'eux\" was nominated in three categories: Album of the Year, Best Selling Album (Foreign or Domestic) and Best Selling Francophone Album. Dion won in the latter category and was also nominated for Female Vocalist of the Year. In 1995, Dion was nominated for seven Félix Awards and won three of them in categories: Artist of the Year Achieving the Most Success Outside Quebec, Pop/Rock Album of the Year (\"D'eux\") and Most Popular Song of the Year (\"Pour que tu m'aimes encore\"). The remaining nominations included among others: Female Vocalist of the Year, Best Selling Album of the Year (\"D'eux\") and Video of the Year (\"Pour que tu m'aimes encore\"). In 1996, Dion was nominated for eight Félix Awards and won six of them in categories like: Artist of the Year Achieving the Most Success Outside Quebec, Female Vocalist of the Year, Best Selling Album of the Year (\"D'eux\") and Show of the Year (D'eux Tour). \"Je sais pas\" was also nominated in categories: Most Popular Song of the Year and Video of the Year. Additionally, Dion's two television specials: \"Céline Dion - D'eux\" and \"Céline Dion - spécial d'enfer\" were nominated for Prix Gémeaux in 1995 and 1996.\n\nIn France in 1996, Dion was nominated for three Victoires de la Musique: Francophone Artist of the Year, Song of the Year (\"Pour que tu m'aimes encore\") and Music Video of the Year (\"Pour que tu m'aimes encore\"), and won in the first two categories. \"Pour que tu m'aimes encore\" also won Radio France Internationale Award in 1996 (Conseil Francophone de la chanson). In 1996, Dion received Ordre des Arts et des Lettres for the Best Selling French-Language Artist in History. The same year, she won a World Music Award for World's Best Selling Canadian Artist of the Year.\n\n\"D'eux\" received positive reviews from music critics. Stephen Thomas Erlewine from AllMusic gave it three stars out of five. He noted that Jean-Jacques Goldman's songcraft, who wrote nearly all of the songs on the album, is remarkably similar to the adult contemporary pop that broadened Dion's international success. Erlewine wrote that the album is a well-constructed and entertaining adult pop record and on the whole, it sounds good.\n\n\"D'eux\" was a huge commercial success. It became the best-selling French-language album in history, with sales of more than ten million copies worldwide. In France, \"D'eux\" debuted at number one and stayed at the top of the chart for a record-breaking forty-four weeks. When Dion's next album, \"Falling into You\", was released in March 1996, it debuted at number two, the top position still being occupied by \"D'eux\". The album topped the 1995 Year-end Chart in France and on the 1996 Year-end Chart it was number four. In August 1995, \"D'eux\" was certified Diamond in France. Eventually, it has sold 4.5 million copies there and became the best-selling album of all time in France.\n\nIn Wallonia, \"D'eux\" spent thirty-seven weeks at the top of the chart, a record that still stands, and became the best-selling album of 1995. It also topped the chart in Belgium Flanders for four weeks. In 1997, \"D'eux\" was certified six-times platinum in Belgium and is one of the best-selling albums of all-time in this country. In Switzerland, \"D'eux\" topped the chart for five weeks and became the second best-selling album of the year 1995 and the best-selling album in 1996. In 1998, \"D'eux\" was certified four-times platinum in Switzerland and is one of the best-selling albums of all-time there. It also topped the chart in the Netherlands for two weeks and was certified platinum. In Quebec, the album topped the chart for thirty-four weeks. On the Canadian Albums Chart, \"D'eux\" peaked at number twenty-nine and was certified seven-times platinum in 1997 for sales of 700,000 copies.\n\nAlthough a French-language album, \"D'eux\" charted and was certified in many non-French speaking countries. In the United Kingdom, it peaked at number seven, setting a record for a French release. It was certified gold there and has sold 250,000 copies. Dion became the first and only artist who achieved UK gold certification with a French-language recording. Later, she repeated this success with \"S'il suffisait d'aimer\". Even in the United States, where it was released as \"The French Album\", the album has sold 300,000 copies. \"D'eux\" also reached the top ten in Portugal, Denmark and Sweden. It was also certified platinum in Poland and gold in New Zealand. On the European Top 100 Albums, \"D'eux\" reached number three and eventually it was certified eight-times platinum by the IFPI for sales of eight million copies in Europe.\n\nTo celebrate the 15th anniversary of \"D'eux\", Legacy Recordings released in November 2009 in Europe and in December 2009 in Canada \"D'eux – 15th Anniversary Edition\". on 27 November 2009 in France, It includes the CD with original album tracks plus three demos from the personal archives of Jean-Jacques Goldman (\"Pour que tu m'aimes encore\", \"Le ballet\", \"J'irai où tu iras\") and two instrumental versions of \"Vole\" and \"Pour que tu m'aimes encore\". It also contains an opendisc access to unpublished photographs of the cover sessions and listen to an alternate version of \"J'attendais\" with different lyrics by Goldman. The bonus DVD includes the Sonia Benezra's television special \"Spécial Dimanche\" from April 1995, distributed exclusively in Quebec, where Dion interpreted \"Je sais pas\", \"J'irai où tu iras\" in duet with Goldman, \"Les derniers seront les premiers\", \"Pour que tu m'aimes encore\" and \"Vole\". Between the songs, there were interviews with Dion and Goldman. It also includes four music videos: \"Pour que tu m'aimes encore\", \"Les derniers seront les premiers\", \"J'attendais\" and \"Je sais pas\". \"D'eux – 15th Anniversary Edition\" also includes a booklet of forty pages in a double digipack. It includes two previously unpublished texts by Goldman, one from 1995 to launch the album, and the other specially done for \"D'eux – 15th Anniversary Edition\". There are also previously unpublished photographs of the sessions for the cover and reproduction of the text manuscript of Goldman's \"Pour que tu m'aimes encore\".\n\nAll tracks produced by Jean-Jacques Goldman and Erick Benzi.\n\nAdapted from AllMusic.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239446", "title": "Yubiwa", "text": "Yubiwa\n\n\"Yubiwa\" is also included on the soundtrack for the \"Escaflowne\" movie.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239462", "title": "Carrier Command", "text": "Carrier Command\n\nCarrier Command is a 1988 video game published by Rainbird for the Amiga, Atari ST, IBM PC compatibles, ZX Spectrum, Macintosh, Commodore 64, and Amstrad CPC. \"Carrier Command\" is a cross between a vehicle simulation game and a real-time strategy game where players control a robotic aircraft carrier. The carrier is not based on any real-life aircraft carrier.\n\nThe game is set in the near future, where a team of scientists have developed two robotic aircraft carriers to colonise an archipelago of sixty four islands. Unfortunately, the more advanced carrier falls into the hands of a terrorist organization, and they plan to conquer the archipelago for their own evil ends. It is the player's job to use the less advanced carrier to colonise the islands and destroy the enemy carrier.\n\nAcross all but one format, \"Carrier Command\" uses filled-in vector graphics to create a three-dimensional view of the game world. The game does not use texture mapping but uses a simple raster pattern to shade objects. The carrier and the vehicles it carries have full 360-degree freedom of rotation. The Commodore 64 version is the exception and reproduces the same gameplay from a top down 2D viewpoint.\n\nWhen previewed and finally released on Amiga and Atari ST formats, the game received substantial attention due to the level of 3D fluidity in the graphics engine that hadn't really been seen before. The game also featured a sampled theme song by Dave Lowe, which was expanded into a full, studio-recorded vocal production entitled \"Just Another Mission\". This was included on a tape cassette with certain releases of the game. A similar scheme was used for the later game \"Starglider 2\".\n\nA game of \"Carrier Command\" can be initiated in two ways.\n\nThe player's carrier (ACC Epsilon) is a very complex system, having its own weaponry and automatic repair systems. The carrier has a laser gun turret which is able to fire an unlimited number of shots, but heats up in use requiring it to be rested after firing several shots in rapid succession. The carrier can fire missiles by launching a recon drone high into the sky and then selecting targets while looking through the recon drone. The carrier is also equipped with a decoy flare launcher which works as an aerial countermeasure, and defense buoys to protect it from missile attacks.\n\nDamage to the carrier is repaired by the automatic repair system. The carrier is divided up into several systems. With the exception of the carrier superstructure and the automatic repair system itself it is possible to fully repair any of the carrier's systems from 100% damage. The carrier is destroyed when damage to the superstructure reaches 100%, resulting in the loss of the game. Damage to the components is done according to where the impacts are on the carrier.\nFor example, a hit from a missile to the rear side of the carrier will do heavy damage to both the engine and docking bay, but will do little or no damage to the other components of the ship. The player can set the repair priorities for each part of the carrier that will determine which parts will be repaired first. Any component except the automatic repair system that has over 50% damage will not work. Some components that are damaged will operate less efficiently.\nIf the engine is damaged for example, the carrier will not be able to move as fast. If damaged, the laser turret will heat up faster and cool down slower so it will not be able to fire as frequently. The repair system repairs the carrier slower if it is damaged.\nThe carrier carries up to eight Manta (Multirole Aircraft for Nautical Tactical Assault) remote-controlled aircraft and up to eight Walrus (Water And Land Roving Utility Shuttle) remote-controlled amphibious vehicles, although only four of each may be operational at any one time. The remote control of the Mantas and the Walruses has to be linked through the carrier, so if they go too far from the carrier the cockpit screen of them will become ghosted. If they venture even further away from the carrier, they will lose all contact with the carrier and be destroyed; the Mantas will just simply fall out of the sky.\nA Manta may be equipped with a long-range communications pod, allowing operation of it and any other nearby vehicles as far away from the carrier as desired. However, only one Manta may be fitted with a communications pod at any one time.\n\nThe Mantas are primarily for combat use, but the Walruses are primarily used to carry payloads to the islands. Depending on the current status of the island, and its intended use, the payload might be the starting kit for a colony, or a virus bomb to convert an enemy colony to the player's side. The Mantas can be equipped with missiles that can automatically lock on to enemy targets. The Walrus vehicles can be loaded with missiles that can be manually guided into targets.\n\nPart of the appeal of the game lies in the control of these auxiliary vehicles. The player can, if desired, have all four Mantas and all four Walruses out of the carrier at once, and can pilot each personally, or program each to travel to a specific location (none of the vehicles can be programmed to perform attack or defence functions). Once arrived, a Walrus will simply wait. A Manta will adopt a circular holding pattern until it runs out of fuel, at which point it will crash into the ground or sea and be lost. Some islands have runways on which Mantas may be landed and refuelled. A Walrus which has run out of fuel may be refuelled by another Walrus carrying a spare fuel pod.\n\nThe carrier can also be piloted directly, or programmed to travel to a specific location, which may be another island.\n\nThe enemy carrier (the ACC Omega) is also constantly sailing the archipelago, but instead of Mantas and Walruses it uses a stronger variant of the island defence fighter to capture friendly islands, and actually floats onto neutral islands to capture them. If the player manages to destroy the enemy carrier, the game is considered to be won. However, the player is then offered the opportunity to recapture all of the remaining enemy islands in the absence of the enemy carrier.\n\nThe enemy carrier is of a different design and colour to the player's carrier. It has superior top speed, manoeuvrability, and acceleration, which makes a direct carrier-to-carrier confrontation very unusual. However, it is very vulnerable to direct assault, it lacks the weaponry of ACC Epsilon and can be easily destroyed by a few shots from the turret laser. Alternatively, a Manta has sufficient top speed to catch the enemy carrier when it is still near to an island (in the open sea, the enemy carrier can outrun even a Manta). Two Mantas equipped with missiles have the firepower to destroy the enemy carrier (the first Manta can disable the Omega's engines, allowing the second Manta to destroy it). Another approach is to ambush the enemy carrier while it's busy attacking an island, using a Walrus armed with an Avatar chemical laser. It takes roughly a dozen rounds to finish it off.\n\nThe enemy carrier's superior speed means that, in the \"strategy\" mode (see above), it can assimilate neutral islands much more quickly than the player. This means that the player's strategy is more important than the head-on approach.\n\nAll islands in the game are flat and rectangular, and surrounded by sloping beaches. Neutral islands are covered in trees. Some islands have active volcanoes which erupt glowing rocks. These falling rocks can not damage a Walrus.\n\nTo assimilate a neutral island, an ACCB (automatic command-centre builder) pod must be placed by a Walrus. The player must nominate whether the island will be a resource island, a factory island, or a defence island. Resource islands mine basic raw materials from the ground, which are used to build defenses and production buildings on other islands. Factory islands automatically produce supplies for the carrier, including fuel and replacement equipment and vehicles. Both are lightly defended. Defence islands are strongly defended and difficult for the enemy carrier to capture, but produce nothing of value. Finally, the larger the island the more effective its role is. The player must ensure there is a good balance of islands, otherwise the carrier will run out of fuel and supplies during the game. The ACCB builds itself into a command centre, and continues to automatically produce buildings and robots to work on or defend the island. Damaged and destroyed units are rebuilt over time the same way.\n\nThe islands are interconnected with a supply network. Each side can designate a stockpile island where supplies such as fuel and equipment are stored. When this network is disrupted in such a way that the stockpile island is cut off from your headquarters (the very first island you have), resupply becomes impossible. Player has to define stock levels and production priorities for fuel types, ammunition, spare vehicles, missiles, decoys and basically all items available.\n\nEnemy islands follow the same nomenclature as player islands, resource, factory or defence. To capture an enemy island, a Walrus may fire a virus pod at the opening on the front of the command centre, which instantly converts it to a friendly island (and leaves all the buildings intact). The enemy carrier has no such possibility. The other way of gaining control of an island, and the only one available to the enemy carrier, is to destroy the command center and build another. This also allows a change of the island type, e.g. from factory to defence. Much of the materials used in previous island type is lost in the process, however. The player has no choice but to destroy command centers of his own islands if he wishes to change their type.\n\nEnemy islands may be defended by automated flying units and missile launchers which can easily destroy a Walrus or Manta and even the carrier. As expected, defence islands are the most dangerous. Capturing an island usually require a combination of Manta and carrier action to lessen enemy defenses while one or more Walruses are sent to take care of the command center. The carrier is the most efficient way of clearing a beach using Hammerhead sea to surface missiles. Player must be quick as destroyed structures are rebuilt over time. Walrus can be equipped with 40-shots chemical lasers, a pack of up to 9 wired missiles (driven with a picture-in-picture interface) or a single virus bomb, but not both, forcing the player into launching a coordinated fleet action to succeed.\n\n\"The Games Machine\" awarded the Atari ST and Amiga versions 98% and 97% respectively and ranked \"Carrier Command\" the #1 game of 1988. \"ACE\" (\"Advanced Computer Entertainment\") scored the PC version 965/1000, while \"Zzap!64\" magazine awarded the Amiga release 92%. The game was ranked the 15th best game of all time by \"Amiga Power\".\n\n\"Computer Gaming World\" in 1988 praised the game's blend of strategic and tactical play, recommending it as an improvement over \"Starglider\". A 1992 survey in the magazine of wargames with modern settings gave the game two and a half stars out of five, describing it as a \"futuristic arcade game\", and two 1994 surveys gave it two stars. The ZX Spectrum version was awarded a \"\"Crash\" Smash\" with 97%, and was awarded 94% by \"Your Sinclair\", and was placed at number 12 in the \"Your Sinclair\" official top 100.\n\nIn 1991, \"PC Format\" named \"Carrier Command\" one of the 50 best computer games ever. The editors called it \"a splendid mixture of strategic planning and arcade action\". \"Carrier Command\" was named the 56th best computer game ever by \"PC Gamer UK\" in 1997. The editors wrote that it \"packs more flight-sim, sea-sim and tank-sim action and strategy than a dozen of your so-called CD-ROM games could manage in a million or more megabytes.\"\n\n\"Carrier Command\" was followed by \"Battle Command\", where the player controls a tank.\n\n\"\" (2001) was inspired by \"Carrier Command\" and has many similarities.\n\n\"\" (2012) is a modern remake by Bohemia Interactive's Prague studio. It's a real-time action/strategy game, where the overarching objective is to conquer and control islands. It features a vast 33-island archipelago on the planet-moon Taurus.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239464", "title": "West Middletown, Ohio", "text": "West Middletown, Ohio\n\nWest Middletown is an unincorporated community in eastern Madison Township, Butler County, Ohio, United States. It is located on the west shore of the Great Miami River about one mile from Middletown. It had about 200 people in 1905 and was formerly a station on the Cincinnati, Hamilton, and Dayton Railroad. Founded as Madison City, it received the name Heno when it was awarded a post office in 1882. Since there was already another Madison City in Ohio, the postmaster general demanded a name change. According to legend, as old-timers were discussing the new name around the cracker barrel in the general store, a can of Heno tea caught their attention. So the town was named for the tea. But in 1907, the postmaster general decreed the village was within the shadow of Middletown, and only a few postal workers had ever heard of Heno, making it difficult to sort and forward mail to the place. The government ordered the village to accept the name of West Middletown. In 1963 the postmaster general in another decree closed the West Middletown post office, transferring its business to Middletown.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239468", "title": "2005 Copa Libertadores", "text": "2005 Copa Libertadores\n\nThe 2005 Copa Libertadores was the 46th edition of the Copa Libertadores. The champion also qualified for the 2005 FIFA Club World Championship.\n\nIt was the first time ever that two teams from the same country reached the final. This year's tournament was also the first Copa Libertadores to employ the away goals rule in knockout ties. São Paulo won the tournament, becoming the first Brazilian team to win the cup on three occasions.\n\n12 teams from 11 football associations dispute 6 places in the Group Stage.\n\nTeam #1 was home in the first leg.\n\nThe six winners from the preliminary round join the other twenty-six teams in the group stage. The top 2 teams in each group advanced to the knockout stage.\n\nTiebreakers, if necessary, are applied in the following order:\n\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n\nThe teams seeded 1 to 8 (first placed teams of each group) and 9 to 16 (second placed teams of each group) and the ties were 1 vs 16, 2 vs 15, etc.\n\nFirst leg matches were played between May 17, 2005 and May 19, 2005. Second leg matches were played between May 24, 2005 and May 26, 2005.\n\nFirst leg matches were played on June 1, 2005 and June 2, 2005. Second leg matches were played between June 14, 2005 and June 16, 2005.\n\nFirst leg matches were played on June 22, 2005 and June 23, 2005. Second leg matches were played on June 29, 2005 and June 30, 2005.\n\nFirst leg match was played on July 6, 2005. Second leg match was played on July 14, 2005.\n\n9 goals\n6 goals\n5 goals\n\n"}
{"id": "2239472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239472", "title": "Nature Reviews Nephrology", "text": "Nature Reviews Nephrology\n\nNature Reviews Nephrology (before 2009, Nature Clinical Practice Nephrology) is a peer-reviewed medical journal for nephrologists.\n\nCoverage includes prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of disorders of the kidney in the adult and child, including hypertension, infection/inflammation, dialysis/chronic uremia, renal failure, transplantation, applied physiology, epidemiology, pathology, immunology, cancer, and genetics.\n\nIndexed by ISI Nature Reviews Nephrology received an impact factor of 19.68 as reported in the 2018 \n\n"}
{"id": "2239473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239473", "title": "Stewartby", "text": "Stewartby\n\nStewartby is a model village and civil parish in Bedfordshire, originally built for the workers of the London Brick Company. The village was designed and built to the plans of the company's architect Mr F W Walker, a later and more modern development than such better-known Victorian model villages as Saltaire. Started in 1926, Stewartby also is a later model than Woodlands which was first planned in 1905. The later retirement bungalow development of the 1950s and 1960s with the pavilion community centre in their midst was designed by the neo-Georgian architect Professor Sir Albert Richardson. Today, Stewartby parish also includes Kempston Hardwick.\n\nOriginally two Wootton farming settlements, Wootton Pillinge and neighbouring Wootton Broadmead, the Wootton Pillinge LBC village was in 1936 renamed Stewartby, taking its new name from the Stewart family, directors of London Brick Company since 1900. The family's son Sir Malcolm Stewart had amalgamated LBC with the Forders Company in the village in the 1920s. The site closed in 2008 as the owners, Hanson, could not meet UK limits for sulphur dioxide emissions. The four chimneys remaining were due to be demolished upon closure but these have since been listed for preservation of Bedfordshire's brick-related history and will remain.\n\nThe brickworks was home to the world's biggest kiln and produced 18 million bricks at the height of production.\n\nBJ Forder & Son opened the first brickworks in Wootton Pillinge in 1897.\n\nWootton Pillinge was renamed Stewartby in 1937 in recognition of the Stewart family who had been instrumental in developing the brickworks.\n\nThe firm became London Brick Company and Forders Limited in 1926, and shortened to London Brick Company in 1936.\n\nAt the height of the industry's production there were 167 brick chimneys in the Marston Vale. There are four chimneys in Stewartby.\n\nIn the 1970s Bedfordshire produced 20% of England's bricks.\n\nAt its peak London Brick Company had its own ambulance and fire crews, a horticultural department and a photographic department, as well as its own swimming pool inside the factory, and ran a number of sports clubs.\n\nMore than £1 million was spent on Stewartby Brickworks in 2005–7 in an attempt to reduce sulphur dioxide emissions.\n\nThe factory used Lower Oxford Clay, which is made up of 5% seaweed, formed 150 million years ago when it was on the sea bed. This removed the need to add coal to the fire, as the organic material burned.\n\nStewartby has a railway station on the Marston Vale Line.\n\nThe village was to have been the planned location for the proposed National Institute for Research into Aquatic Habitats (NIRAH). This project was scrapped in June 2015 due to lack of investment funding.\n\nThe new housing development is called Hanson's Reach. Phase one involves 750 new houses being built.\n\nIt is planned to construct a very large waste incinerator in an abandoned clay pit next to the village.\n\nKimberley College is a sixth form centre which opened in Stewartby in September 2013.\n\nThere is a lower school in Stewartby called Broadmead Lower School, which was opened in 1965. The middle school is Marston Vale, which takes in children from the surrounding area.\n\nStewartby has been home to Stewartby Village Football Club since 1999. In the 2009/10 season it was in the Bedfordshire County League Division 4.\n\nStewartby is also home to Stewartby Amateur Operatic and Dramatic Society which has been putting on performances of concerts and Gilbert and Sullivan operettas since 1951.\n\nThere is a large park in Stewartby which has a new slide and zip wire. There are plans to extend the park. A BMX track has been built behind the club house.\n\nThe railway in Stewartby was opened in 1905 and used to form part of the Varsity Line, from Oxford to Cambridge. There are plans to reopen the closed parts of the line under the East West Rail scheme. The line now sees an hourly service Monday to Saturday between Bedford and Bletchley, operated by London Northwestern Railway using Class 230 trains.\n\nThe lake is home to Stewartby Water Sports Club, a not for profit organisation which promotes Angling, Power Boat Racing, Sailing, Wakeboarding and Waterskiing. There are also opportunities for open-water swimming, paddleboarding, canoeing and wind-surfing which are organised from within the club.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239479", "title": "Nature Reviews Rheumatology", "text": "Nature Reviews Rheumatology\n\nNature Reviews Rheumatology is a peer-reviewed medical journal published by the Nature Publishing Group. It was established in 2005 as \"Nature Clinical Practice Rheumatology\" and obtained its current title in 2009. The journal covers all aspects of rheumatology.\n\nIndexed by ISI, Nature Reviews Rheumatology received an impact factor of 18.545 as reported in the 2018 Journal Citation Reports, ranking it first out of 31 journals in the category \"Rheumatology\".\n"}
{"id": "2239486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239486", "title": "J. E. B. Seely, 1st Baron Mottistone", "text": "J. E. B. Seely, 1st Baron Mottistone\n\nJohn Edward Bernard Seely, 1st Baron Mottistone, (31 May 1868 – 7 November 1947) was a British Army general and politician. He was a Conservative Member of Parliament (MP) from 1900 to 1904 and a Liberal MP from 1904 to 1922 and from 1923 to 1924. He was Secretary of State for War for the two years prior to the First World War, before being forced to resign as a result of the Curragh Incident. As General Jack Seely, he led one of the last great cavalry charges in history at the Battle of Moreuil Wood on his war horse Warrior in March 1918. Seely was a great friend of Winston Churchill and the only former cabinet minister to go to the front in 1914 and still be there four years later.\n\nSeely was born at Brookhill Hall, between Derby and Nottingham, on 31 May 1868. He was the seventh child, and fourth son, of Sir Charles Seely, 1st Baronet (1833–1915).\n\nSeely was a member of a family of politicians, industrialists and significant landowners. His grandfather Charles Seely (1803–1887) was a noted Radical Member of Parliament and philanthropist and was famous for hosting Giuseppe Garibaldi, the Italian revolutionary hero, in London and the Isle of Wight in 1864. Seely's father and brother Sir Charles Seely, 2nd Baronet were also MPs, as would later be his nephew Sir Hugh Seely, 3rd Baronet and 1st Baron Sherwood, who became Under-Secretary of State for Air during the Second World War.\n\nThe family had homes in Nottinghamshire and the Isle of Wight as well as extensive property in London. He is still associated with the Isle of Wight, where he spent his holidays whilst growing up. His aunt's husband, Colonel Harry Gore Browne, won the Victoria Cross during the Indian Mutiny. Gore Browne was manager of the extensive Seely estates on the Isle of Wight. Queen Victoria lived nearby at her favourite residence, Osborne House.\n\nHe was educated at Harrow School, where he fagged for Stanley Baldwin. He also met Winston Churchill, who became a lifelong friend. He then studied at Trinity College, Cambridge 1887–90.\n\nSeely served in the Hampshire Yeomanry, in which he was commissioned as a second lieutenant, while still an undergraduate, on 7 December 1889. He was promoted to lieutenant on 23 December 1891 and to captain on 31 May 1892.\n\nHe joined the Inner Temple and was called to the Bar in 1897.\n\nFollowing the outbreak of the Second Boer War he was commissioned as a captain in the Imperial Yeomanry on 7 February 1900, having succeeded in arranging transport to South Africa for his squadron the same week, with the assistance of his uncle Sir Francis Evans, 1st Baronet, chairman of the Union Castle Line. He is remembered in South Africa as the commander that placed the 14-year old Japie Greyling (1890-1954) against a wall in front of a firing squad, threatening to have him executed if he did not provide information about the Boer forces in the area. The boy refused to cooperate, and was freed. Several memorials still exist in South Africa today, attesting to the remarkable story.\n\nHe served bravely, if a little insubordinately. He was mentioned in despatches and awarded a medal with four clasps, as well as the Distinguished Service Order (DSO) in November 1900.\n\nWhilst still on active service in South Africa during the Boer War, Seely was elected Member of Parliament for the Isle of Wight as a Conservative at a by-election in May 1900 and re-elected at the \"Khaki\" General Election that autumn.\n\nOn 10 August 1901, he was promoted to the rank of major in the yeomanry, with the honorary rank of captain in the Army from 10 July. Seely was appointed a deputy lieutenant of the Isle of Wight in 1902.\n\nAlong with Winston Churchill and Lord Hugh Cecil he attacked the Balfour government's neglect of the Army. He was a strong believer in free trade and was unhappy with the Unionist (Conservative) Party's increasing support for Tariff Reform (protectionism). He also opposed the Balfour government's support for the use of Chinese Slavery in South Africa. He left the Conservative Party in March 1904 mainly over these two issues and challenged the Conservative Party to oppose him running as an Independent Conservative at the 1904 Isle of Wight by-election. They declined and he was returned unopposed.\n\nHe was narrowly elected Liberal MP for Liverpool Abercromby at the 1906 General Election.\n\nSeely was promoted to the rank of lieutenant-colonel in the Hampshire Yeomanry on 20 June 1907, and to colonel on 31 March 1908; he was therefore known as \"Colonel Seely\" during his time as a politician before the First World War.\n\nIn 1908 the new Prime Minister H. H. Asquith appointed him Under-Secretary of State for the Colonies, in place of Winston Churchill who had been promoted to the Cabinet. According to the \"Dictionary of National Biography\", \"Since his chief, Lord Crewe, was in the Lords, important work fell to the under-secretary, in particular the South Africa Act 1909, which brought about the Union of South Africa.\" He became a member of the Privy Council in 1909. Seely was also amongst those Liberals who strongly supported Lloyd George's budgets of 1909 and 1910.\n\nSeely was defeated for Abercromby at the January 1910 General Election and returned to Parliament for Ilkeston in Derbyshire at a by-election later in 1910, holding that seat until 1922. In October 1910, he was awarded the Territorial Decoration.\n\nSeely then served as Under-Secretary of State for War from 1911 to 1912. As a yeomanry colonel, he did not support conscription, which General Henry Wilson favoured. “Ye Gods” was how Wilson greeted his appointment in his diary.\n\nSeely was already a member of the Committee of Imperial Defence. In June 1912, apparently on Churchill's suggestion, Seely was promoted to the Cabinet as Secretary of State for War, in succession to Haldane. He held the post until 1914. With Sir John French he was responsible for the invitation to General Foch to attend the Army Manoeuvres of 1912 and was active in preparing the army for war with Germany. Seely supported General Wilson when he gave evidence to the Committee of Imperial Defence (CID) in November 1912 that the presence of the British Expeditionary Force on the continent would have a decisive effect in any future war. The mobility of the proposed Expeditionary Force, and in particular the development of a Flying Corps (the origin of the modern Royal Air Force) were his special interests. According to \"The Times\", these developments played a significant role in the victory during World War I.\n\nIn April 1913 Seely told the House of Commons that the Territorial Force could see off an invasion by 70,000 men and that the General Staff opposed conscription. Sir John French (Chief of the Imperial General Staff) obtained a partial retraction after Wilson had threatened that he and his two fellow Directors at the War Office would resign in protest at the “lie”, but Wilson felt that French's recent promotion to Field Marshal had made him reluctant to clash with Liberal Ministers. During the CID “Invasion Inquiry” (debates of 1913–14 as to whether some British regular divisions should be retained at home to defeat a potential invasion), Seely lobbied in vain for all six divisions to be sent to France in the event of war. French became very friendly with Seely when his first wife died in childbirth in August 1913.\n\nWith Irish Home Rule due to become law in 1914, and the Cabinet contemplating some kind of military action against the Ulster Volunteers who wanted no part of it, French and Seely summoned Paget (Commander-in-Chief, Ireland) to the War Office for talks, whilst Seely wrote to the Prime Minister (24 October 1913) about the potential use of General Macready, who had experience of peacekeeping in the South Wales coalfields in 1910, and had been consulted by Birrell (Chief Secretary for Ireland) about the use of troops in the 1912 Belfast riots. In October 1913 Seely sent him to report on the police in Belfast and Dublin.\n\nThere was more discussion about the Army's stance over Home Rule \"outside\" the Army than within it. Seely spoke to the assembled Commanders-in-Chief of the Army's six Regional Commands, to remind them of their responsibility to uphold the civil power. They met at the War Office on 16 December 1913 with French and the Adjutant-General Spencer Ewart present. He assured them that the Army would not be called upon for “some outrageous action, for instance, to massacre a demonstration of Orangemen”, but nonetheless officers could not “pick and choose” which lawful orders they would obey, and that any officer who attempted to resign on the issue should instead be dismissed. This did not stop tensions about the Army's role from growing.\n\nBy March 1914 intelligence reported that the Ulster Volunteers, now 100,000 strong, might be about to seize the ammunition at Carrickfergus Castle, and political negotiations were deadlocked as the Ulster Protestant leader Edward Carson was demanding that Ulster have a complete, not just temporary, opt-out from Home Rule. Seely was on the five-man Cabinet Committee on Ireland (along with Crewe, Simon, Birrell and Churchill (First Lord of the Admiralty)). General Paget, who was reluctant to move in case it exacerbated the crisis, was summoned to London. On 14 March 1914 the Committee warned Paget of the perceived need to occupy the arms depots to prevent the Ulster Volunteers from doing so. Seely repeatedly assured French of the accuracy of intelligence that Ulster Volunteers might march on Dublin. No trace of Seely's intelligence survives. It has been suggested, e.g. by Sir James Fergusson, that the move to deploy troops may have been a “plot” by Churchill and Seely to goad Ulster into a rebellion which could then be put down, although this view is not universally held. Carson departed London for Ulster on 19 March, amidst talk that he was to form a provisional government.\n\nNo written orders had been issued to Paget. It had been agreed that officers domiciled in Ulster would be allowed to “disappear” for the duration of the crisis, with no blot on their career records, but that other officers who objected were to be dismissed rather than being permitted to resign. Although the ODNB concurs that Seely was foolish in effectively giving \"any\" officers discretion over which orders to obey, he was keen to keep Paget on the government's side and maintain the unity of the Army. The move to deploy troops resulted in the Curragh incident of 20 March, in which Gough and many other officers threatened to resign. The elderly Field-Marshal Roberts, whom Seely had told the King was “at the bottom” of the matter, thought Seely “drunk with power”.\n\nOn the morning of Monday 23 March Seely had a meeting with Gough, with Paget, French and Spencer Ewart in attendance. Seely, who – by Gough's account – attempted unsuccessfully to browbeat him by staring at him, accepted French's suggestion that a written document from the Army Council might help to convince Gough's officers. Seely took over a draft document to a Cabinet meeting for approval. Seely had to leave the meeting for an audience with the King, and in his absence the Cabinet agreed a text, stating that the Army Council were satisfied that the incident had been a misunderstanding, and that it was \"the duty of all soldiers to obey lawful commands\".\n\nSeely, assisted by Viscount Morley, later added two paragraphs, stating that the Crown had the right to use force in Ireland or elsewhere, but had no intention of doing so \"to crush political opposition to the policy or principles of the Home Rule Bill\". This was initialled by Seely, French and Ewart and then given to Gough. It is unclear whether this – amending a Cabinet document without Cabinet approval – was an honest blunder on Seely's part or whether he was encouraged to do so and then made a scapegoat.\n\nGough, on the advice of Maj-Gen Wilson, then insisted on adding another paragraph clarifying that the Army would not be used to enforce Home Rule \"on Ulster\", with which French concurred in writing. Seely had not been consulted about this second assurance.\n\nAsquith publicly repudiated the \"peccant paragraphs\" (25 March). Talk of a government \"plot\" was now widespread amongst the Opposition. Seely accepted the blame in the House of Commons on 25 March and offered to resign to protect French and Ewart; Asquith initially refused to accept his resignation, despite writing to Venetia Stanley that he blamed the crisis on \"Paget's tactless blundering\" and \"Seely’s clumsy phrases\". By 30 March it was clear that Asquith, to his regret, would now have to insist that Seely resign, along with French and Ewart. Seely remained a member of the CID, and it is unclear whether or when he might have been restored to the Cabinet had war not soon broken out.\n\nFollowing the outbreak of war in August 1914, Seely was recalled to active duty as a special-service officer. Seely served for near the entirety of the First World War, with few breaks, leaving London on 11 August 1914 to take up a post on Sir John French's staff. On a liaison mission between the French Fifth Army and Haig's I Corps (31 August 1914 – during the period when Sir John French's retreat had opened up a gap in the Allied line), he claimed to have been almost captured in the fog, but to have bluffed his way past a German cavalry patrol by calling out (in German) that he was a member of the Great General Staff.\n\nOn 28 January 1915, Seely was given command of the Canadian Cavalry Brigade, with the temporary rank of brigadier-general and the substantive rank of colonel. He was mentioned in despatches five times, further enhancing his reputation for bravery. He was known as “the Luckiest Man in the Army” and was the subject of many apocryphal stories, such as that he recommended his soldier servant for a Victoria Cross for having stood never less than twenty yards \"behind\" him during an engagement.\n\nOn 1 January 1916, he was appointed a Companion of the Order of the Bath (CB). During the advance to the Hindenburg Line in spring 1917, Seely, whose brigade was attached to Fourth Army, commandeered infantry from XV Corps to form an \"ad hoc\" combat group to capture Équancourt. General du Cane's anger was assuaged – Seely later claimed – by the arrival of congratulations from Field Marshal Haig. He was appointed a Companion of the Order of St. Michael and St. George (CMG) on 1 January 1918.\nDuring the German Spring Offensive Seely, back from London, called on Percy Beddington, a senior staff officer of the Fifth Army, at around 2am on 24 March 1918, to inform him of the gossip in London that Fifth Army had been routed. Beddington, who had only managed to get to sleep an hour previously, for the first time since the morning of 21 March, on a camp bed in his office, recorded that he \"lost (his) temper, cursed him up hill and down dale for daring to wake (him) with such drivel.\" Seely himself later admitted that it suddenly seemed unimportant a few days later when he was commanding the CCB in action, but it mattered a great deal in the next few days when Gough was sacked from command of the Army as a scapegoat.\n\nAfter being gassed in 1918, he returned to England, and was relieved of command of the brigade on 20 May 1918. He was angry about the move, but it was revealed in later correspondence by James H. Elmsley to Canadian Corps commander Arthur Currie that \"[t]hose who served under him, I know had an exceptionally hard time and I am glad for the sake of the fellows of the 3rd Div. that he is going.\"\n\nSeely had remained an MP throughout his military service in the First World War, and as a member of the Liberal faction which supported Lloyd George's coalition government, he was appointed Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Munitions on 10 July 1918, serving under Churchill (then Minister of Munitions).\n\nHe was the only member of the government, besides Churchill, to see active service in the war, and was promoted to the temporary rank of major general on 13 July. Belgium appointed him a Commander of the Order of the Crown, and France both appointed Seely a Commander of the Légion d'honneur and awarded him the Croix de guerre.\n\nSeely relinquished his temporary rank of major-general on 14 January 1919. He was appointed Under-Secretary of State for Air and President of the Air Council in 1919, again under Winston Churchill (Secretary of State for War). However, he resigned both posts at the end of 1919 after the Government refused to create a Secretary of State for Air (as it later did). In June 1920, he was one of three candidates for the post of Governor-General of Australia presented to the Australian prime minister Billy Hughes, along with Lord Forster and Lord Donoughmore.\n\nLike many Lloyd George Liberals, Seely lost his seat at Ilkeston at the November 1922 General Election. He retired from the army on 25 August 1923, with the honorary rank of major-general. Seely was also a Colonel of the Territorial Army, an Honorary Colonel of 72nd (Hampshire), an Honorary Air Commander Auxiliary Air Force.\n\nSeely returned to Parliament as a member of the reunited Liberal Party for the Isle of Wight at the December 1923 General Election, which saw a hung Parliament in which the Liberals supported the first Labour Government under Ramsay MacDonald. In May 1924, however, Churchill (then out of Parliament, and who had recently left the Liberal Party to become an independent \"Constitutionalist\", prior to rejoining the Conservatives after his return to the Commons in 1924) listed Seely in a letter to Conservative leader Stanley Baldwin as one of his group of Liberal MPs who would vote against the Labour government, and a month later mentioned Seely as a likely Liberal Conservative. Indeed, according to historian Chris Wrigley, Seely's political trajectory was similar to that of Churchill's (i.e. a Conservative in 1900, joining the Liberals a few years later, then becoming a Conservative again in the 1920s). Seely lost his seat again at the 1924 General Election, at which the Liberals suffered heavy losses. Seely vehemently opposed the General Strike of 1926.\n\nHe was made Chairman of the National Savings Committee in 1926, a post he served in until 1943, the same year he became vice-president until his death. During this time he was asked by the Government to conduct the publicity in regard to the conversion of the 5% war loan. According to \"The Times\", \"in the Second World War the activities of the National Savings Committee were largely extended and became a vital part of the national war effort.\" He continued to have an influential role in domestic politics.\n\nSeely was granted the Freedom of the City of Portsmouth in 1927.\n\nOn 21 June 1933 Seely was raised to the peerage as Baron Mottistone, of Mottistone in the County of Southampton.\n\nIn 1933 Mottistone visited Berlin in his capacity as Chairman of the Air League, as a guest of Joachim von Ribbentrop. In 1935 he visited Germany again in his boat “Mayflower”. In May 1935 Adolf Hitler made a well publicised speech in which he proclaimed that German rearmament offered no threat to world peace. That month Mottistone told the House of Lords that \"we ought to assume that it is genuine and sincere...I have had many interviews with Herr Hitler. I think the noble Lord and all the people who have really met this remarkable man will agree with me on one thing, however much we may disagree about other things—that he is absolutely truthful, sincere, and unselfish\".\n\nHis book “Mayflower seeks the Truth”, which according to the ODNB was \"full of Nazi propaganda\", was published in Germany in 1937. Plans for a British edition were shelved in 1938 as tensions mounted over Czechoslovakia. As late as June 1939 (after Hitler had broken the Munich Agreement and occupied Prague) he proclaimed in the House of Lords: \"I am an unrepentant believer in...the policy of appeasement\". However, in 1941 he wrote an article in \"The Sunday Times\" and the \"Evening Standard\" denouncing the brutality of “Hitlerism”.\n\nSeely was also Vice-President of the RNLI. He was a keen sailor and for much of his life was coxswain of the Brook Lifeboat.\n\nSeely served as Lord Lieutenant of Hampshire from 1918 to 1947.\n\nHe was also a Justice of the Peace (JP) for Hampshire and the Isle of Wight, the first Chairman of Wembley Stadium, and a director of Thomas Cook.\n\nHe died in Westminster aged 79. His will was valued for probate at £9,212 12s 4d (not including settled land - land tied up in family trusts so that no individual has full control over it - worth £5,500). These equate respectively to around £300,000 and £200,000 at 2016 prices.\n\nSeely was a popular figure in the House of Commons. In later life, in a play on his title, his self-promotion earned him the nickname “Lord Modest One”.\n\n\"The Times\" called him a \"Gallant Figure in War and Politics\" and F. E. Smith, 1st Earl of Birkenhead, wrote, \"In fields of great and critical danger he has constantly over a long period of years displayed a cool valour which everybody in the world who knows the facts freely recognizes.\" Marshal Ferdinand Foch, Supreme Commander of the Allied Armies in the final year of World War I, gave him a cigarette case inscribed, \"Au Ministre de 1912: au Vaillant de la Grande Guerre.\"\n\nA screen was erected in St. Peter and St. Paul's Church, Mottistone in his memory.\n\nSeely married Emily Florence, daughter of Colonel Sir Henry George Louis Crichton, on 9 July 1895. They had three sons and four daughters. She died in August 1913.\n\nHis eldest son and heir, 2Lt Frank Reginald Seely, was killed in action with the Royal Hampshire Regiment at the Battle of Arras on 13 April 1917.\n\nHe married for the second time, to Evelyn Izmé Murray, JP (born 1886, died 11 Aug 1976) on 31 July 1917. She was the widow of his friend George Crosfield Norris Nicholson and daughter of Montolieu Oliphant-Murray, 1st Viscount Elibank. They had one son (she already had a son from her previous marriage).\n\nSeely's heir John Seely (1899–1963) was an architect whose work, with Paul Edward Paget in the partnership of Seely & Paget, included the interior of Eltham Palace in the Art Deco style, and the post-World War II restoration of a number of bomb-damaged buildings, such as the London Charterhouse and the church of St John Clerkenwell.\n\nSeely's son from his second marriage, David Peter Seely, 4th Baron Mottistone (1920–2011), was the last Governor of the Isle of Wight; he was baptised with Winston Churchill and the then Prince of Wales (subsequently Edward VIII and then later the Duke of Windsor) as his godparents\n\nSeely's grandson Brough Scott, who presented horseracing television programmes, wrote a biography of Seely, \"Galloper Jack\" (2003).\n\nSeely was a maternal great-great-grandfather of theatre director Sophie Hunter.\n\nThe present Conservative MP for the Isle of Wight, Bob Seely, is his great-great nephew.\n\nAccording to the Sir Alfred Munnings Art Museum (Alfred Munnings was a former president of the Royal Academy of Arts and famous horse painter) \"Without doubt his most important painting was that of \"General J. E. B. Seely (later Lord Mottistone) on his charger Warrior\" which led to his commission to paint the Earl of Athlone, brother of Queen Mary.\"\n\nJack Seely was featured in the HBO film \"Into the Storm\" in 2009. At the end of the film Churchill reads a sympathetic post-election note from his old friend Jack Seely: \"I feel our world slipping away.\" Churchill thinks back: \"I met him in South Africa, riding across the veldt. He was Col. Seely then. I saw him at the head of a column of British cavalry, riding twenty yards in front, on a black horse. I thought of him as the very symbol of British Imperial power.\" The Testimony Films 2012 documentary \"War Horse: The Real Story\" contained extensive discussion of the First World War service of Seely and his widely revered horse, Warrior. Warrior was adopted as his formation's mascot and had a reputation for bravery under fire. Warrior survived the war, dying in 1941 at the age of 33. In September 2014, the horse was posthumously awarded an honorary PDSA Dickin Medal for bravery.\n\n\nSeely's books shed light on his personality but are not always factually reliable.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239487", "title": "Danube–Oder Canal", "text": "Danube–Oder Canal\n\nThe Danube–Oder Canal (; ) is a planned and partially constructed artificial waterway in the Lobau floodplain of the Danube at Vienna, that was supposed to stretch along the Morava River to the Oder at the city of Kędzierzyn-Koźle in Poland.\n\nThe Holy Roman Emperor Charles IV had envisioned a waterway capable of taking ships from the Oder to the Danube in the 14th century. Records of further plans of such a waterway stem from the 19th century. During the Nazi era, the idea was reborn and the project was put into motion. The project would connect the Oder to the Danube through the Moravian region of the Czech Republic, stretching 320 kilometers and spanning an elevation of 124 meters.\n\nOn December 8, 1939 Rudolf Hess inaugurated the then-named \"Adolf Hitler Canal\", today Gliwice Canal (Polish: \"Kanał Gliwicki\") from Kędzierzyn-Koźle at the Oder River to the city of Gliwice, that replaced the historic Kłodnica Canal finished in 1812. At the same time, Hess also performed the groundbreaking ceremony for the further \"Donau-Oder-Kanal\". The work on the Upper Silesian side already discontinued in 1940. Only a few kilometres of the planned 40-km long channel from Vienna to Angern at the Morava River were actually dug in the years up to 1943, mainly in the areas around the Lobau floodplain in the Donaustadt district of Vienna and the adjacent town of Groß-Enzersdorf. The branch-off at the Danube, just under 100 meters long, is still clearly recognizable today, connecting the \"Ölhafen Lobau\" of the OMV oil company. Two further sections are today used for swimming and fishing.\n\nBetween 1964 and 1970, a part of the original plans gained attention from Poland again and an offshoot of the Gliwice Canal was constructed. The short, finished arm east of Kędzierzyn-Koźle is known as \"Kanal Kędzierzynski\" and serves to connect the nitrogen factory \"Azoty Kędzierzyn AG\" to the Oder.\n\nThe waterway today is again part of plans for a European Danube–Oder–Elbe Canal project that would also connect the Elbe river.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239491", "title": "Fantastic Four (2005 video game)", "text": "Fantastic Four (2005 video game)\n\nFantastic Four is an action-adventure beat 'em up video game based on the 2005 film of the same name. Players play as the characters of the Marvel Comics superhero team Fantastic Four using combos and special attacks to fight their way through hordes of enemies and bosses. Ioan Gruffudd, Jessica Alba, Michael Chiklis, Chris Evans and Julian McMahon reprise their roles for the game. The Nintendo DS version was planned, but was cancelled.\n\nThe Fantastic Four is an internationally renowned group of superhuman champions. Each of the characters has a special ability:\n\n\nThe game includes a number of villains and characters not featured in the movie, many of whom are based on their Ultimate Universe versions like the Yancy Street Gang, Nick Fury, Mole Man, Diablo, Puppet Master, Dragon Man, Blastaar, and Annihilus.\n\nThe game begins with Reed, Sue, and Johnny on a roof lying helpless after being knocked unconscious by a blast from Doctor Doom. Sue is the first to recover, so when she sits up and turns around, Dr. Doom is preparing to fire an electric blast at them. Sue holds it off with her force field and calls Ben Grimm for help. Then it cuts away to Ben, who is recovering in the transformation chamber after having his rocklike exterior genetically removed from him. As he contemplates why the circumstances have led to this, he remembers the period when all of this happens.\n\nThis is when it reverts to the beginning of the movie: Reed signs the pact, they go into space, and Ben gets the samples ready. In space, they are hit by a cosmic storm which alters their DNA and gives them superpowers. If it hadn't been for Victor, they might never have arrived back to Earth and into his medical compound, where they recovered. When Ben discovers that he has become a monster-like figure, he deserts the other three and heads home.\n\nBen runs on a rampage to try to calm himself. This brings the army to New York under the control of a deep, dark, sinister figure who is yet to be revealed and they try to get Ben under control. However, after Ben and the other three rescue a fire truck from falling off the Brooklyn Bridge, the forces lay off and watch the Fantastic Four to see if they become hostile.\n\nReed attempts to find another power source, but is interrupted by a call for help. It seems that strange creatures have invaded Grand Central Station and the police seem to have no effect against them. The Fantastic Four stop the creatures from invading the city and face their leader, the Mole Man and his mighty pet. Because of the utter destruction caused by their fight with this giant monster, the city is in a mess and Victor blames Reed for all this mess.\n\nWith Ben in hand, Reed sets out to identify their mutation and possibly cure them of it. He constructs a machine with Victor's help which will use cosmic rays to reverse the signal being sent through their bodies by the mutation. He then turns to sources to power this machine and identifies a cosmic meteor that landed in the jungle of southern Mexico. They travel to Tikal to retrieve this meteor when they encounter Diablo, who desires to have this meteor so he can harness its power to conquer the world. The Fantastic Four defeat him and bring the meteor back, but its power is insufficient to power the machine. Later, Victor invites Sue to the opening of his Egyptian wing in the museum that night.\n\nWhile they are there, Alicia Masters is kidnapped by the mummy creatures who have come to life by the Puppet Master, which throws Ben into an outrage. Reed intends to disable the security system to free her, but they have to deal with animated mummies and dinosaurs. They free Alicia but end up destroying half the museum while repelling the reanimated creatures, which infuriates Victor to no end.\n\nIn his last attempt to alleviate his anger towards them, he has a conversation with Sue in which he attempts to find out why she continues to stay with Reed. She says she can't abandon them because they're her family now, which prompts Victor to send Doombots after them to destroy them after they finish their meeting. The four have a massive battle in Times Square, which they nearly demolish with the help of the VDI Mechs, prompting Nick Fury, to take them to the Vault prison for their safe keeping.\n\nThey arrive there and are quarantined until Dragon Man decides to break out and cause utter chaos. The Fantastic Four's security systems are deactivated and they try to restore order. They are successful in their mission so when they reach the entrance at the top of the prison, they encounter Fury who agrees to release them on one condition: that they find out what happened to his laboratory.\nWhen they arrive, they discover it has been taken over by mutated plants and insectoid creatures and they must destroy the station after obtaining the power source they need to finish powering Reed's transformation chamber. This proves to be successful and the machine is powered up to its maximum.\n\nWith this knowledge, Victor travels to the Baxter Building with the intent to defeat the Fantastic Four. He sets Reed's security systems against them and lures Ben to the transformation chamber where he steals his power. The remaining three fight against an enhanced Dr. Doom but his power is too great and they are defeated. Ben, however, feels terrible for leaving his friends just because he wanted to look normal again, so he decides to re-enter the transformation chamber and turn back into the Thing. Dr. Doom is about to destroy them when Ben busts out onto the roof and savagely attacks him, allowing his teammates to recover. They fall to the street and the other three join them there to finish Doom once and for all.\n\nReviews of the game were mixed. GameRankings gave it a score of 62.18% for the PlayStation 2 version, 61.50% for the Xbox version, 65.02% for the GameCube version, 64.35% for the PC version, and 55.50% for the Game Boy Advance version. Likewise, Metacritic gave it a score of 64 out of 100 for the PS2 version, 62 out of 100 for the Xbox version, 61 out of 100 for the GameCube version, 63 out of 100 for the PC version, and 57 out of 100 for the GBA version.\n\nGamesRadar ranked it as the 45th worst game ever made. They criticized it for its poor use of the license and boring gameplay.\n\nThe game is notable for having four bands record brand new songs to be used as the themes for the characters. The bands who contributed songs and who their song was for are:\n\nTaking Back Sunday's \"Error Operator\" was also the only song originally composed for the game to appear on the film's soundtrack. It also appears in the film during the scene where The Thing goes into a bar. The song was re-worked for the band's 2006 album \"Louder Now\". In the game an instrumental version is used.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239511", "title": "Muskegon Area Intermediate School District", "text": "Muskegon Area Intermediate School District\n\nThe Muskegon Area Intermediate School District serves the educational needs of school districts in Muskegon County, Michigan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239513", "title": "Lentivirus", "text": "Lentivirus\n\nLentivirus (\"lente-\", Latin for \"\"slow\"\") is a genus of retroviruses that cause chronic and deadly diseases characterized by long incubation periods, in the human and other mammalian species. The best known lentivirus is the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), which causes AIDS. Lentiviruses are also hosted in apes, cows, goats, horses, cats, and sheep. Recently, lentiviruses have been found in monkeys, lemurs, Malayan flying lemur (neither a true lemur nor a primate), rabbits, and ferrets. Lentiviruses and their hosts have worldwide distribution. Lentiviruses can integrate a significant amount of viral cDNA into the DNA of the host cell and can efficiently infect nondividing cells, so they are one of the most efficient methods of gene delivery. Lentiviruses can become endogenous (ERV), integrating their genome into the host germline genome, so that the virus is henceforth inherited by the host's descendants.\n\nFive serogroups of lentiviruses are recognized, reflecting the vertebrate hosts with which they are associated (primates, sheep and goats, horses, domestic cats, and cattle). The primate lentiviruses are distinguished by the use of CD4 protein as a receptor and the absence of dUTPase. Some groups have cross-reactive \"gag\" antigens (e.g., the ovine, caprine, and feline lentiviruses). Antibodies to \"gag\" antigens in lions and other large felines indicate the existence of another yet to be identified virus related to feline lentivirus and the ovine/caprine lentiviruses.\n\nThe virions are enveloped, slightly pleomorphic, spherical and measure 80–100 nm in diameter. Projections of envelope make the surface appear rough, or tiny spikes (about 8 nm) may be dispersed evenly over the surface. The nucleocapsids (cores) are isometric. The nucleoids are concentric and rod-shaped, or shaped like a truncated cone.\n\nAs with all retroviruses, lentiviruses have gag, pol and env genes, coding for viral proteins in the order: 5´-gag-pol-env-3´. Unlike other retroviruses, however, lentiviruses have two regulatory genes, tat and rev. They may also have additional accessory genes depending on the virus (e.g., for HIV-1: vif, vpr, vpu, nef) whose products are involved in regulation of synthesis and processing viral RNA and other replicative functions. The Long terminal repeat (LTR) is about 600 nt long, of which the U3 region is 450, the R sequence 100 and the U5 region some 70 nt long.\n\nRetroviruses carry specific proteins within their capsids, which typically associate with the RNA genome. These proteins are typically involved in the early stages of genome replication, and include reverse transcriptase and integrase. Reverse transcriptase is the virally encoded RNA-dependent DNA polymerase. The enzyme uses the viral RNA genome as a template for the synthesis of a complementary DNA copy. Reverse transcriptase also has RNaseH activity for destruction of the RNA-template. Integrase binds both the viral cDNA generated by reverse transcriptase and the host DNA. Integrase processes the LTR before inserting the viral genome into the host DNA. Tat acts as a trans-activator during transcription to enhance initiation and elongation. The Rev responsive element acts post-transcriptionally, regulating mRNA splicing and transport to the cytoplasm.\n\nThe lentiviral proteome consists of five major structural proteins and 3-4 non-structural proteins (3 in the primate lentiviruses).\n\nStructural proteins listed by size:\n\nThe envelope proteins SU and TM are glycosylated in at least some lentiviruses (HIV, SIV), if not all of them. Glycosylation seems to play a structural role in the concealment and variation of antigenic sites necessary for the host to mount an immune system response.\n\nEnzymes:\n\nGene regulatory proteins:\n\nAccessory proteins:\n\nSerological Relationships: Antigen determinants are type-specific and group-specific. Antigen determinants that possess type-specific reactivity are found on the envelope. Antigen determinants that possess type-specific reactivity and are involved in antibody mediated neutralization are found on the glycoproteins. Cross-reactivity has been found among some species of the same serotype, but not between members of different genera. Classification of members of this taxon is infrequently based on their antigenic properties.\n\n\nClassed as having \"class C\" morphology\n\n\nLentivirus is primarily a research tool used to introduce a gene product into in vitro systems or animal models. Large-scale collaborative efforts are underway to use lentiviruses to block the expression of a specific gene using RNA interference technology in high-throughput formats. The expression of short hairpin RNA (shRNA) reduces the expression of a specific gene, thus allowing researchers to examine the necessity and effects of a given gene in a model system. These studies can be a precursor to the development of novel drugs which aim to block a gene-product to treat diseases. Conversely, lentivirus are also used to stably over-express certain genes, thus allowing researchers to examine the effect of increased gene expression in a model system.\n\nAnother common application is to use a lentivirus to introduce a new gene into human or animal cells. For example, a model of mouse hemophilia is corrected by expressing wild-type platelet-factor VIII, the gene that is mutated in human hemophilia. Lentiviral infection has advantages over other gene-therapy methods including high-efficiency infection of dividing and non-dividing cells, long-term stable expression of a transgene, and low immunogenicity.\nLentiviruses have also been successfully used for transduction of diabetic mice with the gene encoding PDGF (platelet-derived growth factor), a therapy being considered for use in humans. Finally, lentiviruses have been also used to elicit an immune response against tumor antigens. These treatments, like most current gene therapy experiments, show promise but are yet to be established as safe and effective in controlled human studies.\nGammaretroviral and lentiviral vectors have so far been used in more than 300 clinical trials, addressing treatment options for various diseases.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239515", "title": "Street unicycling", "text": "Street unicycling\n\nStreet unicycling is one of the latest developments in unicycling. The aim of the sport is to use natural/urban/specially made obstacles such as ledges, handrails and stairs in a given area to perform tricks that look good. The emphasis falls on technical proficiency, style and creativity. Street unicycling draws inspiration from skateboarding and bmx bike riding, with many similar tricks.\n\nFor street unicycling, most riders prefer to ride 20\" trials unicycles because of their light weight, good hopping abilities, smooth maneuverability. However, some riders prefer using the less conventional 24\" and 26\" wheel sizes for street riding.\n\nThe 13th Unicycle World Championships (Jul/Aug 2006) played host to the first ever \"official\" Street Freestyle Competition, while the first ever street competition was truly at the California Mountain Unicycle Weekend in 2004 (http://www.unicycling.com/muni/2004/). Xavier Collos (France) clinched the world title. Unicycling competitions incorporating street aspects are now more commonplace.\n\nThe 19th Unicycle World Championships were held in Ansan, Korea in 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239524", "title": "Koç University", "text": "Koç University\n\nKoç University () is a non-profit private university in Istanbul, Turkey. It started education in temporary buildings in İstinye in 1993, and moved to its current Rumelifeneri campus near Sarıyer in 2000. Koç University is ranked highest in Turkey according to the 2018 Times Higher Education World University Rankings. Koç University currently consists of Colleges of Social Sciences and Humanities, Administrative Sciences and Economics, Science, Engineering, Law, Nursing and Medicine. Koç University offers 22 undergraduate, 29 graduate and 30 PhD programs. The University is home to around 7,000 students. The University accepts international students from various countries and has an extensive network of over 250 partner-universities including University of California and other universities such as Northwestern University, Cornell University and Georgetown University.\n\nFounded in 1993, Koç University has become one of the most prestigious universities in Turkey. The University attracts many of the highest-scoring students from Turkey's top high schools such as Koç School, Robert College, Uskudar American Academy and Istanbul High School. The majority of classes (over 95%) at Koç University are taught in English (a few exceptions are found only in the School of Law and School of Nursing).\n\nKoç University has the following academic units:\n\n\nThe Times Higher Education World University Rankings ranked Koç University as follows:\n\nThe same organization listed Koç among the category 100 under 50 Years as follows:\n\nThe same organization listed Koç University as follows in their annual World University Rankings by Subject:\n\nOther rankings such as the QS World University Rankings have placed Koç University as follows:\n\nIn 2018, the QS World University Rankings by Subject ranked Koç University in 2 out of 5 broad subject areas: Engineering and Technology (451-500th) and Social Sciences and Management (401-450th). In the subject specific rankings Koç University was placed as follows:\nThe QS World University Rankings: Business Masters Rankings 2018 ranked Koç University Graduate School of Business Master programs in Finance and Management as follows:\n\nThe Financial Times rankings place Koç University Graduate School of Business and its programs as follows:\n\nFinancial Times European Business School Rankings\n\nFinancial Times Executive MBA Ranking\n\nIn 2017, the CEMS Masters in International Management (CEMS MIM) was ranked 9th in the Financial Times Masters in Management Ranking. Koç University Graduate School of Business is one of the 30 university members of the CEMS Alliance of Business Schools offering this program.\n\nKoç University is one of the leading research universities in Turkey and the region. The University strives to be a global center of research and aims to influence intellectual, technological, economic and social developments on a global scale.\n\nKoç University has been the top recipient of TÜBİTAK (Scientific and Technological Research Council of Turkey) research awards. Koç University is also the most successful higher education institution in Turkey in bids for ERC grants, coordinating 8 of the 15 active projects in Turkey as of March 2018. In addition, Koç University is the best performing institution (including industry organizations) in Turkey after TÜBİTAK in the European Commission's Horizon 2020 funding scheme. The University is currently hosting 10.2 million Euros worth of Horizon 2020 projects.\n\nBetween 2004 and 2017 the University was awarded a total of 761 externally funded projects valued at 320 million TL (US$86 million).\n\nThe University has 132 research laboratories, 20 research centers, and 5 research and education forums.\n\n\n\nKoç University's central campus at Rumelifeneri is located north of Istanbul, overlooking the Bosphorus and the Black Sea. The campus has 60 buildings, covering 230,000 square meters of built area.\n\nThe University first began operations in 1993 in converted factory buildings in Istinye, Sariyer. After the University moved to its new home at Rumelifeneri, the Istinye campus was remodelled to serve as a high-end conference and training center. Other Koç University campuses and locations include West Campus dormitories and residences (Rumelifenri, Sariyer), Koç University Hospital (Topkapi, Istanbul), ANAMED (Beyoğlu, Istanbul), KWorks (Şişli, Istanbul), AKMED (Antalya), and VEKAM (Ankara).\n\nThe Koç University Suna Kıraç Library has five branches and holds some 322,000 print volumes plus nearly 160,000 ebooks and 64,000 online serial titles. The Library also holds about 2,000 rare materials in the areas of Ottoman and European history, literature and religion.\n\nKoç University's Rumelifeneri campus was designed by prominent Boston based American-Iranian architect Mozhan Khadem. Khadem is the chief design architect of all Koç University buildings as well as the master planner of its campus.\n\nAccording to Khadem, the architecture of the campus was inspired by light and the significance of the University's geographical location on the border between Europe and Asia. Khadem also sites inspiration from Turkish artistic and poetic heritage, the works of the Sufi poet Rumi, and Turkish and Ottoman architectural styles.\n\nThe campus is laid out along an east–west axis: architecturally the University represents a ‘gateway of knowledge and light’, symbolized by the University's ‘Portal of Knowledge’ – the campus's arched main entrance represents both a gateway of knowledge and a gateway between East and West. Situated among hills overlooking the Black Sea, the stepped architecture allows the campus to integrate within the steep contours of the surrounding terrain.\n\nThe campus consists of a series of connected buildings surrounding a variety of interlocking courtyards. These courtyards draw on Ottoman architectural tradition and are replete with symbols of Turkish history and culture.\n\nThe campus is compact and designed for pedestrians. Students and staff can move from place to place either through open courtyards or under cover. The campus utilizes a four by four meter modular design to accommodate different spatial needs.\n\nThe final stage of the Rumelifeneri campus construction plan was realized in 2018 with the completion of a sixth faculty building, an extension to the library, and several new dormitory buildings. \n"}
{"id": "2239533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239533", "title": "Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Gwangju", "text": "Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Gwangju\n\nThe Catholic Archdiocese of Gwangju () is a particular church of the Latin Rite of the Catholic Church, one of the three Metropolitan sees of the Catholic Church in Korea. The Archdiocese covers the city of Gwangju and entire Chollanamdo province.\n\nOn 13 April 1937 Pope Pius XI established the Prefecture Apostolic of Kwoszu. Pope Pius XII changed its name to the Prefecture Apostolic of Kwangju on 12 July 1950. It was elevated to a Vicariate Apostolic on 21 January 1957. Pope John XXIII elevated the vicariate to an archdiocese on 10 March 1962.\n\nThe following is a list of the vicars and then the archbishops of Gwangju:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239540", "title": "Woodsdale, Ohio", "text": "Woodsdale, Ohio\n\nWoodsdale is an unincorporated community in Madison and St. Clair Townships in central Butler County, Ohio, United States about three miles northeast of Hamilton. It was established in 1867 by the Beckett Paper Company and was formerly a stop on the Cincinnati, Hamilton, and Dayton Railroad. An electric generation plant of the Cincinnati Gas and Electric Company is located in Woodsdale. Woodsdale is also the location of the Samuel Augspurger House & Farm and The Augspurger Schoolhouse both of which are on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239549", "title": "Sukyo Mahikari", "text": "Sukyo Mahikari\n\nSukyo Mahikari (\"Sukyo\" means universal principles and \"Mahikari\" means True Light) is an organization with centers in more than 100 countries. The stated aim of the organization is to help people improve the quality of their lives and attain happiness by practicing universal principles and a method of spiritual purification called the art of True Light. It was founded by Kōtama Okada in 1959 under the name L. H. Yokoshi no Tomo. Sukyo Mahikari was registered on 23 June 1978 by Keishu Okada as part of an amicable settlement following the passing of Kōtama Okada. In 2013, Sukyo Mahikari announced it had a membership of approximately one million practitioners.\n\n23 June 1978: The establishment of Sukyo Mahikari is announced by Keishu Okada, the adopted daughter of Kōtama Okada.\n\n18 October 1984: Inauguration of the Inner Shrine (Okumiya) of the World Shrine near the summit of Mount Kurai.\n\n3 November 1984: Inauguration of the World Shrine (Suza) in Takayama City.\n\n23 June 1992: Inauguration of Hikaru Shinden, the shrine dedicated to the founder, Sukuinushisama.\n\n5 May 2002: Inauguration of the Sukyo Mahikari Youth Centre.\n\n3 November 2009: It is officially announced that the third spiritual leader will be Mr. Kōō Okada.\n\nThe organization aims to promote peace and harmony in society through the practice of a method of spiritual purification and the practice of universal principles, such as gratitude, acceptance, and humility in all aspects of life.\n\nSukyo Mahikari introduces a practice to purify one's spiritual aspect as an expedient toward attaining happiness. Radiating Light from the palm of the hand is a method of spiritual purification that cleanses the spirit, mind and body. It is said to help open the way to resolving all manner of problems. By purifying the spiritual aspect with the Light and leading a life based on principles of sustainability, people can revive their spirituality and attain increasing health, harmony and prosperity.\n\nThe transmission of Light is referred to as \"the art of True Light.\" Through the palm of the hand, a person (the giver) radiates Light to another person (the receiver), allowing them to purify and revitalize their spirit, mind and body.\n\nRadiating Light can be practiced by anyone who so desires, by attending the Sukyo Mahikari primary course.\n\nA session of Light typically begins with both the giver and receiver offering a short prayer. Next, the giver of Light recites a prayer that is believed to have a strong power to purify (the \"Amatsu Norigoto Prayer\"). The giver then holds his or her hand approximately 30 centimeters (12 inches) from the receiver's body. Sessions of Light usually last anywhere from 10 to 50 minutes.\n\nSukyo Mahikari does not advocate the use of the art of True Light as a substitute for medical treatment or therapy. The founder of Mahikari, Mr. Kōtama Okada, taught that the purpose of the art of True Light is not to heal disease or illness, but to be of service to society, bring happiness to people, and attain divine nature.\n\nThe art of True Light is said to purify the spiritual realm of one's home and society, making them more peaceful and harmonious. Thus, members are encouraged to radiate the Light to anything, anywhere, and at any time. Thus, the Light is not only radiated to human beings, but also to animals, food, buildings, and the natural environment.\n\nSukyo Mahikari teaches the concept of universal principles that, when practiced together with the Light, allow one to more quickly attain spiritual and personal growth.\n\nSukyo Mahikari encourages people to incorporate the divine principles in their daily life by practicing virtues such as altruistic love, gratitude, humility and acceptance of the will of God. Members also practice prayer, cultivating positive and cheerful attitudes, promoting love and harmony, and helping others.\n\nFounder Kōtama Okada believed that if people lived in accordance with the universal principles, they would cultivate their spirituality, and naturally come to use science and technology that was integrated with an understanding of spirituality, to find solutions to pressing issues facing humanity.\n\nSukyo Mahikari promotes the practice of yoko agriculture. The practice of yoko agriculture involves organic agriculture combined with the use of positive words and attitudes to help people to cultivate respect for nature and restore soil to its pure and fertile condition. Accordingly, respect for nature and the natural environment is encouraged. The arbitrary use of chemical fertilizers, without consideration for the local environment, is discouraged. The organization has helped to create natural farms and promotes the distribution of natural and organic produce throughout the world.\n\nThe headquarters of Sukyo Mahikari is located in Takayama City, Gifu Prefecture, Japan. \nSukyo Mahikari has established regional headquarters in Australia-Oceania, Asia, Europe, Africa, Latin America, and North America, with centers located in over 100 countries. \nWithin the United States and Canada, Sukyo Mahikari has 21 spiritual development centers.\n\nSukyo Mahikari currently has approximately a million practitioners who form its membership.\n\nBecoming a member of Sukyo Mahikari does not require giving up any preexisting beliefs or accepting Sukyo Mahikari as the only path or faith. Sukyo Mahikari teaches that the art of True Light and the universal principles transcend religious denominations and differences in ethnicity, nationality, and ideology. Sukyo Mahikari promotes cooperation and understanding between religious organizations toward establishing a sustainable and peaceful society. The emphasis the organization places on the spiritual unity of human beings has resulted in a membership that reflects a diversity of religions and nationalities.\n\nSukyo Mahikari does not practice any form of tithe. The organization is sustained by the voluntary contributions (offerings) made by members. Rather than the amount, emphasis is placed on making offerings with sincerity. People are encouraged to make offerings that are voluntary and not beyond one's means. There are no mandatory contributions. However, there is a set amount for the appreciation offering to attend the introductory course and the spiritual cord maintenance offering. Members are encouraged to offer the monthly spiritual cord maintenance offering, which is approximately $7 in the U.S. and a similar amount in other regions. Cornille writes that there are a number of types of offerings in the organization: the spiritual cord maintenance offering; True Light appreciation offering; the special protection appreciation offering, and so on.\n\nIn 1985, Keishu Okada established the Yoko Civilization Research Institute (YCRI). The objective of the forum is to find solutions to today's problems by having leaders in different fields, regardless of their race, nationality, religion, and ideology, come together to share their acquired wisdom.\n\n1st Yoko International Conference was held on Oct 30 to Nov 1, 1986. The theme was \"Creating the future of mankind.\"\n\n2nd Yoko International Conference was held on Oct 28 to Nov 1, 1989. The theme was \"What does it mean to be human?\"\n\n3rd Yoko International Conference was held on Aug 18 to Aug 21, 1999. The theme was \"Life and environment.\"\n\n4th Yoko International Conference was held on September 18 to Sep 21, 2005. The theme was \"Science and religion in the age of crisis.\"\n\nThe 5th Yoko International Conference was supposed to be held on November 20–23, 2011. The theme was \"Coexistence between nature and human beings: viewed through agriculture\". It was cancelled due to the Great East Japan Earthquake.\n\nSukyo Mahikari members have been involved in charity and social services around the world, such as in Côte d'Ivoire and Senegal (planting of trees and revival of national parks), in Angola (activities for children, elderly people, and beautify urban areas) and in both New York and Hawaii (for environmental cleanup activities).\n\nIn 2000, Sukyo Mahikari co-sponsored the UN Millennium Summit of World Religious Leaders.\n\nIn August 2004, Los Angeles mayor James Hahn presented Sukyo Mahikari of North America with a proclamation commending the organization for its efforts in helping to create a peaceful and harmonious society; and in September 2009, Mayor Mufi Hannemann of Honolulu presented Sukyo Mahikari with a certificate declaring September 27 as Sukyo Mahikari Day in Honolulu in recognition of beach and park cleanup activities that the organization has conducted there over the past ten years.\n\nOn May 6, 2010, the New York Center of Sukyo Mahikari was presented with a High Performance Building Plaque from The New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) in pursuing a LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) Silver rating from the U.S. Green Buildings Council. The plaque was given in recognition of energy-efficient measures incorporated into the new center that will help cut its energy costs by $8,400 per year and reduce its carbon footprint in New York City.\n\nIn 2014, an award for excellence in reforestation activities was presented to Sukyo Mahikari by the President of Côte d'Ivoire. The award was in recognition of the reforestation activities of the Sukyo Mahikari youth members of Africa. At the presentation ceremony in Takayama, the award was presented on behalf of the president by Côte d'Ivoire's Minister for Environment, Water and Forests, Mr. Mathieu Babaud Darret.\n\nSince 2016, Sukyo Mahikari was granted special consultative status with the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) of the United Nations.\n\nCatherine Cornille writes in a research paper that the attrition rate is high. She also states \"The emphasis on miracles and magic in Mahikari, on the other hand, accounts for the large turnover of members...\"\n\nIn the 1995 and 1999 parliamentary reports, the organization was listed as having new-age tendencies, however, no conclusions were made regarding sectarian phenomena and as of 27 May 2005, the French government decided to stop periodically releasing a list of organizations associated with sectarian phenomena.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239551", "title": "Latifabad", "text": "Latifabad\n\nLatifabad (,) is a township in the southern suburbs of the city of Hyderabad, in Sindh, Pakistan.\n\nLatifabad is named after the renowned Sindhi Sufi poet, Shah Abdul Latif Bhittai., its initial denizens were Sindhi but after communal uprisings in 1980s between Sindhi speaking and Urdu speaking people and some other; The majority of Urdu speaking live here. It was populated as an extension to the city of Hyderabad to settle hundreds of thousands of Muslim refugees from India escaping from anti-Muslim pogroms, along with the town of Qasimabad.\n\nThe locals that settled the town at its start were racially of a mixed population but as the city experienced its worst traditional demonstrations between Sindhis and Muhajirs in the 1980s, the city was divided into two sub parts Sindhi settling the town of Qasimabad and the Mohajirs settling down in Latifabad.\n\nServing an ethnic majority of the Muhajir community, the Muttahida Qaumi Movement to grow. Latifabad got rebuilt in the era of Pervez Musharraf in which Latifabad was funded much. The land in Latifabad was further divided into sectors, sub-classifying it into numbered units. For political rallies, MQM would specify areas in their sector notation rather than the numbered unit. To this date, the classification continues yet people prefer using the numbered units after that due to some mistakes slowly and gradually MQM is going decline that is why new party make for Mohajirs which is known as PSP( Pak Sir Zameen Party) .\n\nLatifabad has a large mass of Urdu speaking people which are about 65% of the 672,504 population. 30% Sindhi speaking peoples & 10% Others Ethnic Population. Latifabad is divided into twelve units, instead of blocks, each numbered. Each unit has its own hospital and number of schools along with residential complexes or area.\n\nLatifabad has a hot desert climate with warm conditions year-round. The period from mid-march to late June is the hottest of the year, with highs peaking in May at 48 °C. During this time, winds that blow usually bring along clouds of dust, and mostly people prefer staying indoors in the daytime, while at night weather is more pleasant for this reason latifabad is considered a God gifted city, At night people usually go outside for walk and enjoy . Winters are warm, with highs around 25 °C, though lows can often drop below 10 °C at night. On 7 June 1991 the highest temperature of 48.5 °C was recorded, while the lowest temperature of 1 °C (34 °F) was recorded on 8 February 2012.\n\nLatifabad is classified into 12 Administrative divisions in number from 1 to 12. Each number has a chairman which is elected through local body elections which solve the local issue of the related people of this unit.\nThere are Handicraft industries, including silver and gold work, ornamented silks, and embroidered leather saddles, and etc are also well established. Latifabad produces almost all of the ornamental glass or metal bangles.\n\nLatifabad plays important role in educating people in the field of IT not only in town but also in city there are many centres like Aptech Ureka, Chambers, Arena, horizon and many others are providing quality education to students. Two big mobile and computer markets are there in latifabad Chiragh complex, Tayyab complex where every new technology is available in different variety.\n\nPeople of latifabad are fond of spicy foods, fast food and sweet dishes also .There is a food street in latifabad no 8 where every type of food is available like fast food and specially biryani which is the most common food available in the markets as well as corners of roads .It is estimated that there are 150 + shops of biryani of different taste.\nLatifabad has an art council in no 7. Where people of city and also performers from other cities performs . School annual functions, stage dramas, motivational speech by famous speakers also delivered in this council.\n\nAfzaal ground in latifabad no 10 is grass covered and well equipped ground which provides people of the area a good place for recreations there is a big badminton hall and a cricket ground where Regional and local matches are played there and special matches like Ramzan night tournaments are also live telecasted and also Mehboob ground latifabad no 5 has large area to play and this is famous ground of Latifabad due to its maintenance.\n\nThe largest mental asylum or hospital for the mentally ill in Pakistan (some people deem it the largest in Asia) named after Sir Cowasji Jehangir Readymoney (1812–1878), civil engineer and master constructor of Bombay, the Jehangir Institute of Psychiatry holds ground in Latifabad unit 3, commonly known to the locals as \"Giddu Bandar\".\n\nOther hospitals in Latifabad include the St. Elizabeth's Hospital, Majee Hospital, Bhittai Hospital and Red Crescent (Hilal-e-Ahmar) Hospital, Al-Shifa Eyesight Hospital, Life care Hospital etc.\n\nThe Board of Intermediate Secondary Education, Hyderabad, the body of the Government administering the educational standards in the city has their headquarters housed in unit 9 in Latifabad. Public School Hyderabad founded in 1961 one of the most famous schools in sindh is located in Latifabad unit 3 and have so many private and Government school and Colleges in latifabad.\n\n\n http://apnahyderabad.info/2007/06/10/latifabad-profile/\n"}
{"id": "2239557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239557", "title": "Juliette and the Licks", "text": "Juliette and the Licks\n\nJuliette and The Licks is an American rock band led by actress and singer Juliette Lewis. Other band members have included guitarist Craig Fairbaugh and guitarist Emilio Cueto, bassist Jason Womack and drummer Ed Davis. Their popular songs include \"You're Speaking My Language\" and \"Hot Kiss\". The band broke up in 2009. They reunited for a Los Angeles show in 2015, followed by extensive touring in 2016. In June of 2016, Juliette Lewis announced a solo tour leaving the future of The Licks undetermined.\nIn May 2018 members of the band tweeted that they were in the studio working on new music as Juliette And The Licks.\n\nLewis accompanied Patty Schemel, drummer for Hole, to a Blondie concert and decided to find musicians to accompany herself and Patty. The Licks became Juliette (vocals), Patty Schemel (drums), Todd Morse (guitar) and Paul Ill (bass). The band released their first EP \"…Like a Bolt of Lightning\" in 2004, which was shortly followed by the debut album \"You're Speaking My Language\", whose title track became their most successful single, followed by the less successful, disco-influenced \"Got Love to Kill\". The released version of the second single was a remix of the original song, which had a more rock influence.\nSchemel left the band before sessions for the second album had begun, so Foo Fighters frontman Dave Grohl filled the gap. The album was recorded by Lewis, Grohl, Morse, Kemble Walters and Jason Womack. Grohl then asked the Licks to be a guest act at the Foo Fighters' sell-out Hyde Park performance in June 2006, to around 85,000 people (other acts were Angels & Airwaves, Queens of the Stone Age and Motörhead). At the same event, Lewis and Moa Holmsten from Meldrum sang backing vocals on one of Motörhead's songs.\n\nTheir second album \"Four on the Floor\", was released in late 2006. \"Hot Kiss\", which was one of the Licks' most successful singles, was the first release from the album, though the following single, \"Sticky Honey\", proved less commercially successful. The band then toured America and Europe, including opening for Muse and Chris Cornell.\n\nKemble Walters left in 2007 to rejoin his original band, The Rise. The band recruited a temporary player before guitarist Emilio Cueto was recruited to fill the spot permanently. The band performed and presented awards at MTV Brasil's music awards that year, and did the same at the 2008 MTVAAs in Sydney, Australia, after which Todd Morse left the band. Craig Fairbaugh replaced Morse on tour, before the band ceased operations in 2009.\n\nIn a 2009 MySpace blog, Lewis announced the band was at the \"end of its run\". Explaining that she needed a change to grow as an artist, the singer formed a new band and released a studio album called \"Terra Incognita\" in 2009. Of the Licks, she said, \"There were only two of them left. They split. Nobody wants to tour all the time. I mean, \"I\" do, but not them… It looks like the famous singer fired the whole band, but that's not how it happened.\"\n\nSince disbanding Juliette and the Licks in 2009, Juliette Lewis has focused mostly on her Hollywood career. Juliette and the Licks announced they would reunite for a special show at the El Rey Theatre in Los Angeles on July 23rd, 2015. What's more, the indie rockers are currently working on a new album — their first since 2006's Four on the Floor — that was due to arrive in 2016. In a press release, Lewis explained how the idea for a reunion came to fruition. “While recording music with Brad Shultz of Cage the Elephant [she appeared in the band’s recent video for “Take It or Leave It”], I knew I eventually had to put together a killer band. And I thought … Why don’t I get the best band I ever had back together again – The Licks.”\n“At our peak we were known for our insane chemistry and energy onstage,” she continued. “The last venue I played as a solo act with my other band was El Ray [sic]. I have always loved that venue. I figured let's start with an amazing hometown reunion show with guest musicians. And take it from there.”\nThe reunion show occurred on July 23rd, followed by an extensive European tour through 2016.\nIn May 2018 the band members tweeted that they were in the studio working on new music as a band.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239559", "title": "Nature Reviews Gastroenterology &amp; Hepatology", "text": "Nature Reviews Gastroenterology &amp; Hepatology\n\nNature Reviews Gastroenterology & Hepatology is a peer-reviewed medical journal. Before April 2009, it was titled Nature Clinical Practice Gastroenterology & Hepatology. It was established in 2004 and is published by the Nature Publishing Group.\n\nThe content includes editorial and opinion pieces, highlights from the current literature, commentaries on the application of recent research to practical patient care, reviews, and case studies. The scope includes pathology, diagnosis, and treatment of diseases of the gastrointestinal tract, liver, pancreas, gall bladder, and biliary tract, such as functional gastrointestinal disorders, inflammatory diseases, cancer, infection, and nutritional disorders.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed by:\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal had a 2018 impact factor of 23.570.\n"}
{"id": "2239562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239562", "title": "T'ang Quartet", "text": "T'ang Quartet\n\nThe T'ang String Quartet (唐四重奏) is a Singapore-based classical string quartet that has played to critical acclaim.\n\nThe T’ang String Quartet comprises Ng Yu-Ying (1st violin), Ang Chek Meng (2nd violin), Lionel Tan (viola) and Leslie Tan (cello). The Tang Quartet was formed in 1992 when the members were still performers with Singapore Symphony Orchestra. Trained individually in London and Moscow, the Quartet was awarded a fellowship to work in the USA with Paul and Martha Katz, Norman Fischer, Kenneth Goldsmith and Sergui Luca at the Shepherd School of Music. After a two-year masters studies in Rice University as a pre-formed quartet, the T’ang Quartet started their professional career in 1999 with unanimity of purpose: to break new ground by extending the sheer fun and enjoyment of classical music to a larger audience, as well as setting new standards of artistic achievement.\n\nCritics have praised the T’ang Quartet as 'astounding' for its 'confidence', bravura and charisma' (Boston Globe) and for bringing ‘enthusiasm, energy and commitment...to all the music...' (The Times, London). They have added that 'this ensemble is outstanding. Unanimity of attack is uncanny, and intonation and internal balance both impress greatly. These are plainly minds which share a wavelength' (Evening Standard, London).\n\nApart from recitals the Quartet is also very active in outreach and art education programmes. The T’ang Quartet is currently the quartet-in-residence at the Yong Siew Toh Conservatory of Music at the National University of Singapore and was on the faculty of the Boston University Tanglewood Institute from 2001 to 2005.\n\nIn September 2006, it was accorded the prestigious honour of performing at the opening of Singapore Biennale, and to foreign dignitaries at the IMF and World Bank Annual Meetings held in Singapore. ASEAN Summit in 2007\n\n\"T'ang\" signifies that golden age of the arts in Asia – the T'ang Dynasty. The name is also an acronym of the players' last names – Ng, Ang and Tan.\n\nIn 2007, T'ang Quartet premiered \"Optical Identity\", a collaborative production with Theatre Cryptic (Scotland) was commissioned by the Singapore Arts Festival. The European premiere took place at the Edinburgh International Festival in August, and the production then traveled to the Alicante International Contemporary Music Festival (Spain) in September, and tours Scotland in October and November 2007.\n\nT'ang Quartet was invited to perform Azerbaijan composer Franghiz Ali Zadeh's Mugam Sayagi at a UNESCO award Ceremony in Paris on 3 April 2008, where she was receiving the honorary title of UNESCO Artist for Peace.\n\nMembers of T'ang Quartet play instruments on generous loan from the Rin Collection and Mr Jiri Heger.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239579", "title": "Epsilonretrovirus", "text": "Epsilonretrovirus\n\nEpsilonretrovirus is a waterborn genus of the \"Retroviridae\" family. It infects fish. The species include \"Walleye dermal sarcoma virus\", and \"Walleye epidermal hyperplasia virus 1\" and \"2\".\n"}
{"id": "2239584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239584", "title": "Percy Houfton", "text": "Percy Houfton\n\nPercy Bond Houfton (1873–1926) was a late-19th century and early-20th century English architect.\n\nHe started work for his older cousin, J. P Houfton at the Bolsover and Creswell Colliery Company. He was awarded a certificate in mine management in 1897 and was elected to the Institute of Mining Engineers.\n\nAfter designing Creswell Model Village for the colliery company in 1895, he turned to architecture and opened his own practice in Chesterfield in 1898. Much of his work was for colliery companies and designing private houses. In 1905 he was awarded a prize of £100 for producing the best cottage at Letchworth Garden City. Between 1907 and 1909 Sir Arthur Markham of Brodsworth Colliery employed him to build Woodlands, a model village for employees at his colliery near Doncaster. Houfton applied garden village principles designing the houses in an Arts and Crafts style with large gables reminiscent of the style of Voysey.\n\nHe became a Fellow of the Royal Institute of British Architects in 1925.\n\nHe had obituaries in \n\nHe was born in 1873 in Alfreton, Derbyshire, the son of Elijah Houfton (1832-1908) and Elizabeth Bond (1842-1937). Elijah Houfton was surveyor for Alfreton Urban Council. Percy was educated at St Mary's House School in Chesterfield. \n\nHe married Elizabeth Robinson (1879 - 1964), eldest daughter of William Robinson of Chesterfield on 2 July 1902 at St Thomas' Church, Brampton, Chesterfield, Derbyshire. A daughter, Margaret Eileen Houfton was born in 1904.\n\nHe died on 16 May 1926 and left an estate valued at £8,566 18s 10d. ().\n\n\nCitations\n\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "2239585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239585", "title": "Konstantin Dejanović", "text": "Konstantin Dejanović\n\nKonstantin Dejanović (; 1365-95) was a Serbian magnate that ruled a large province in eastern Macedonia under Ottoman suzerainty, during the fall of the Serbian Empire. He succeeded his older brother Jovan Dragaš, who had been an Ottoman vassal since the Battle of Maritsa (1371) which had devastated part of the Serbian nobility. The brothers had their own government and minted coins according to the Nemanjić style. His daughter Jelena married Byzantine Emperor Manuel II Palaiologos in 1392. He fell at the Battle of Rovine (17 May 1395), serving the Ottomans against Wallachia, fighting alongside Serbian magnates Stefan Lazarević and Marko Mrnjavčević.\n\nKonstantin's grandson, last Byzantine Emperor Constantine XI, was named after him, and even used the name \"Dragaš\".\n\nKonstantin's father was the \"despot\" and \"sevastokrator\" Dejan, who had held the Kumanovo-region under the rule of Stefan Dušan (r. 1331-1355). Konstantin's mother Teodora Nemanjić was a half-sister of Dušan. His maternal grandparents were King Stefan Dečanski (r. 1321-1331) and Queen Maria Palaiologina.\n\nIn around 1365, Dejanović's older brother Jovan Dragaš was holding Štip and Strumica. Jovan was elevated to \"despot\" by Emperor Uroš V (before 1373), as Emperor Dušan had elevated Dejan, their father. Ottoman sources report that in 1373, the Ottoman army compelled \"Saruyar\" (Jovan Dragaš) in the upper Struma, to recognize Ottoman vassalship. Konstantin had helped Jovan in ruling the lands, and when Jovan died in 1378/1379, Konstantin succeeded, subsequently managing to govern large portions of northeastern Macedonia and the Struma valley. \n\nHe minted coins, as had his brother done. The Dragaš family generously donated to several monasteries on Mount Athos, including Hilandar, Pantaleimon (Rossikon) and Vatopédi.\n\nOn 10 February 1392 Dejanović's daughter Jelena married Manuel II Palaiologos. The next day, they were crowned Emperor and Empress by the patriarch.\n\nAfter the battle of Maritsa, they were forced to become vassals of the Ottoman Empire, but they maintained close links with their Christian neighbors, including the Byzantine Empire. In 1395, together with his neighbor and ally, the Serbian king of Prilep Marko, Konstantin Dragaš was killed fighting for their Ottoman overlord Sultan Bayezid I against Mircea cel Bătrân of Wallachia at Rovine, near Craiova. The Ottomans named Konstantin's capital Velbužd after him, \"Köstendil\" (now Bulgarian Kyustendil).\n\nDejanović was married twice. The name of his first wife is unknown, but she is not identical with Thamar (Tamara), the daughter of the Emperor (tsar) Ivan Alexander of Bulgaria, who had married a certain \"despotēs\" Constantine. Konstantin married as his second wife Eudokia of Trebizond, daughter of Emperor Alexios III of Trebizond and Theodora Kantakouzene. By his first wife, Konstantin had at least one daughter and possibly a son:\n\nDejanović is venerated in Serb epic poetry as Beg Kostadin (in poetry he was given a title of beg because he became an Ottoman vassal).\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2239588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239588", "title": "HM Prison Stafford", "text": "HM Prison Stafford\n\nHM Prison Stafford is a Category C men's prison, located in Stafford, Staffordshire, England. The prison is operated by Her Majesty's Prison Service. In 2014 it became a sex offender-only jail.\n\nHer Majesty's Prison at Stafford was originally constructed and opened in 1793. It was substantially enlarged by a building development programme of works in the 19th Century.\n\nAmong its early prisoners was George Smith, who served several sentences for theft in the facility and began his later work as a hangman while still a prisoner, assisting William Calcraft. He officiated at several executions in the prison later in his life, including that of the convicted poisoner William Palmer in 1866.\n\nH.M.P. Stafford was used to incarcerate prisoners of war from the defeated Easter Rising in April 1916.\nA number of the Republican prisoners later left accounts of their time in Stafford, \nThe facility was closed in late 1916 and mothballed for two decades, re-opening on the commencement of World War 2 in 1939.\n\nIn November 1998, an inspection report from Her Majesty's Chief Inspector of Prisons heavily criticised security at H.M.P. Stafford after it emerged that prisoners were smuggling in illegal drugs for consumption within the facility. Inmates were fashioning strips of paper into planes, then attaching lines to them and flying them over the perimeter wall. The lines were then used to pull packages containing prohibited substances back over the wall. The facility was also criticised for being overcrowded, under-resourced, and failing to adequately prepare prisoners for release.\n\nIn March 2003, the Prison Reform Trust singled out Stafford Prison for concern over the high turnover rate in its governor's post. The Trust noted that H.M.P. Stafford had employed four different governors in only five years, and that such unstable leadership would not be tolerated in schools or hospitals. The Trust also highlighted prison officers' absenteeism through sickness leave being an issue of concern.\n\nIn October 2003 a further report from the Chief Inspector praised improvements at Stafford Prison. H.M.P. Stafford was labelled as becoming an effective training prison specialising in helping vulnerable prisoners and sex offenders. Considerable advance had also been made in reducing the supply of narcotics into the prison, and in addressing drug addiction treatment. However, the report also highlighted concerns over poor exercise facilities for prisoners, and whether foreign prisoners had enough access to specialised help.\n\nIn October 2003 a new entrance gateway system came into operation at Stafford to upgrade the facility's security.\n\nH.M.P. Stafford is classed as a Category 'C' Prison facility for male adults. In April 2014 it became a sex-offenders-only prison. Accommodation at the prison consists mainly of double-occupancy cells, excepting G Wing which is single occupancy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239590", "title": "Ned Yost", "text": "Ned Yost\n\nEdgar Frederick Yost III (; born August 19, 1954) is a former Major League Baseball catcher and manager of the Milwaukee Brewers and Kansas City Royals. He played for the Brewers, Texas Rangers, and Montreal Expos.\n\nYost was born on California's North Coast in Eureka. Yost attended and played baseball at Dublin High School in Dublin, California. He had significant difficulty hitting prior to his junior and senior years, yet improved after building physical strength by working as a pot-scrubber at a Kentucky Fried Chicken restaurant. After high school, Yost attended Chabot Junior College in Hayward, California, where he walked on to Chabot's baseball team after receiving no offers to play for other schools.\n\nYost, as a player, was used primarily as a backup catcher for the Brewers from 1980 to 1983 (which included the 1982 World Series), and then spent a year with the Texas Rangers (1984; he played a career-high 80 games with the Rangers, hitting .182) and played 5 games for the Montreal Expos (1985) before retiring.\n\nHe never had more than 242 at bats in a season. He ended his career with a .212 batting average, and .237 on-base percentage, in 605 at bats. He had a .982 fielding percentage (the league average was .987).\n\nYost briefly had a second career as a taxidermist in Jackson, Mississippi, in between his playing days and coaching days.\n\nAfter a brief stint managing in the minors, Yost joined the Atlanta Braves organization. He was the Braves' bullpen coach from 1991 to 1998 and earned a ring as a part of the 1995 World Series championship team that defeated the Cleveland Indians in six games. He also was part of the 1991, 1992, 1996, and 1999 National pennant winning teams that lost each of those series to the Minnesota Twins (1991), the Toronto Blue Jays (1992), and the New York Yankees (1996, 1999) respectively. In 1999 Yost became the Braves' third base coach, a position he maintained until the end of the 2002 season.\n\nOn October 29, 2002, Yost was named the Brewers manager, succeeding Jerry Royster. National League manager Tony La Russa named Yost to be part of his coaching staff for the 2005 MLB All-Star Game.\n\nYost's tenure oversaw a revitalization of the Brewers franchise, leading them from losing records to championship contender. However, his teams were plagued by inconsistency, most notably squandering a large lead in the division during the 2007 season and a significant advantage in the wild card race in 2008. Yost finished seventh in voting for Manager of the Year in 2007. While he wore No. 5 on his jersey as a player with the Brewers, as a manager, he wore No. 3 on his jersey as a tribute to his close friend, deceased NASCAR racer and baseball fan Dale Earnhardt.\n\nYost's managing came under fire late in 2007. During the season, the Brewers held an 8-1/2 game division lead over the Cubs by June 23 but failed to hold on to the advantage, finishing two games behind the Cubs. Yost's bullpen management, lineup strategies, and bench management were blamed. He also was thrown out of three games in the last week of the season. However, general Manager Doug Melvin announced Yost's return for the 2008 season.\n\nHe was fired as manager on September 15, 2008, with 12 games remaining in the regular season. The Brewers were still in the playoff race, but had lost 11 of their last 14 games. Yost finished his Brewers career with a 457–502 record. Third-base coach Dale Sveum was named his interim replacement and served until the end of the season, leading the Brewers to clinch the wild card spot on the last day of the season for their first trip to the postseason since 1982 when they made it to the World Series. They were eliminated by the Phillies, the eventual World Series champions, in the 2008 National League Division Series, 3 games to 1.\n\nFollowing the 2009 season, Yost was a candidate to be the next manager of the Houston Astros, however the position was filled by Brad Mills.\n\nOn May 13, 2010, Yost was named manager of the Kansas City Royals, replacing Trey Hillman. Prior to the 2012 season, the Royals signed Yost to a contract extension through the 2013 season. In the 2013 season, Yost posted an 86-76 record with the Royals, their first winning season since 2003.\n\nIn 2014, Yost led the Royals to their first playoff berth since 1985, finishing 89-73. Yost's Royals swept the Baltimore Orioles in four games in the American League Championship Series to give the team its first American League pennant in 29 years. In doing so, the team became the first team in MLB history to win their first eight consecutive playoff games. The Royals were then defeated four games to three in the 2014 World Series by the San Francisco Giants. Yost finished third in the voting for 2014 Manager of the Year and signed a one-year contract extension in the offseason to stay with the club through 2016.\n\nAt the start of the 2015 season, Yost led the team to a 7–0 start marking the second best start to a season in team history (the team's longest consecutive opening win streak, in 2003, was 9 games. During that 2015 season (his fifth full season as manager), Yost became the longest-tenured manager in Royals history. He later also became the winningest manager in Royals club history after a 3-2 win over the Milwaukee Brewers on June 18, 2015. On the final day of the 2015 regular season, Yost's Royals clinched the best record in the American League at 95-67, giving Kansas City home field advantage throughout the playoffs, including the World Series by virtue of the AL's victory in the All-Star Game. The Royals defeated the Houston Astros, Toronto Blue Jays and ultimately the New York Mets to bring Kansas City its first World Series championship since 1985, and Yost his first title as a manager.\n\nOn August 18, 2015, MLB gave Yost a warning about using an Apple Watch he received from the MLB because of MLB's policy of no internet enabled devices in the dugout during gametime. Yost received the watch as a present from MLB for winning the 2014 AL pennant. Yost later told a local radio station that MLB had rescinded the warning after learning that the networking features of the Apple Watch were only available with an active iPhone connection. \n\nYost has often been criticized for his idiosyncratic decision-making and rejection of Sabermetrics, but insists his methods work.\n\nOn February 18, 2016, the Royals announced that Yost had signed an extension with the team, keeping him as manager through the 2018 season. \n\nOn September 17, 2016, Yost won his 1,000th game managed for the Royals and Brewers, in a Royals 3-2 victory over the Chicago White Sox. While also adding to his total as the winning-est manager in Royals franchise history (543 Wins), ahead of Whitey Herzog (410 Wins) and Dick Howser (404 Wins). In 2016 he was successful on a higher percentage of replay challenges than any other MLB manager with 10 or more challenges, at 67.6%.\n\nIn 2018 he was successful on a higher percentage of replay challenges than any other MLB manager with 10 or more challenges, at 75.6%.\nOn September 23, 2019, Yost announced that he would retire at the end of the 2019 season.\n\nYost and his wife, Deborah, have four children and live in rural Georgia during the off-season. One of his sons, Ned Yost IV, serves as a coach for the San Antonio Missions, Class AAA minor league affiliate of the Milwaukee Brewers. Prior to becoming a coach in 2009, the younger Yost played first base for the Class-A Brevard County Manatees in 2007, his third season in the minors, hitting .248 with a .283 slugging percentage.\n\nOn November 4, 2017, Yost was in a tree stand near his home in Georgia when he fell twenty feet. He sustained a broken pelvis, and his surgeon was concerned that Yost might die from blood loss. Yost later said he was certain he would have died if he did not have his cell phone at the time of the fall. He later appeared in a television commercial for Verizon, crediting its wireless service with saving his life.\n\n, or The Baseball Gauge, or Retrosheet, or Venezuelan Winter League\n"}
{"id": "2239592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239592", "title": "Brodsworth Colliery", "text": "Brodsworth Colliery\n\nBrodsworth Colliery was a coal mine north west of Doncaster and west of the Great North Road. in South Yorkshire, England. Two shafts were sunk between October 1905 and 1907 in a joint venture by the Hickleton Main Colliery Company and the Staveley Coal and Iron Company.\n\nThe colliery exploited the coal seams of the South Yorkshire Coalfield including the Barnsley seam which was reached at a depth of 595 yards and was up to 9 feet thick. After a third shaft was sunk in 1923, Brodsworth, the largest colliery in Yorkshire, had the highest output of a three-shaft colliery in Britain.\n\nThe colliery and five others were merged into Doncaster Amalgamated Collieries in 1937 and the National Coal Board in 1947. It closed in 1990.\n\nThe colliery was consistently amongst those that employed the most miners in Britain, employing around 2,800 workers throughout the 1980s.\n\nThe company built Woodlands, a model village for its workers. Since the colliery closed, its spoil tip has been restored and developed as a community woodland; owned by the Land Restoration Trust and controlled by the Forestry Commission. Some of the colliery site has been sufficiently remediated to allow houses to be built upon it.\n\n\nNotes\n\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "2239595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239595", "title": "Ben and Me", "text": "Ben and Me\n\nBen and Me is a 1953 American animated two-reel short subject produced by Walt Disney Productions and released theatrically on November 10, 1953. It was adapted from the children's book written by author/illustrator Robert Lawson and first published in 1939. Though both book and film deal with the relationship between a mouse and American founding father Benjamin Franklin, the book, with illustrations by Lawson, focused more heavily on actual historical events and personages, and included incidents from Franklin's French career at Versailles.\n\nThe short received an Academy Award nomination for Best Short Subject, Two-reel. It was released in VHS format under the Walt Disney Mini-Classics label in 1989 and was later released on DVD as a short film in the \"Disney Rarities\" volume of the Walt Disney Treasures collection. It was also released on DVD in 2012 under the Disney Generations Collection.\n\nThis short was also notable for being the second release on the Buena Vista Distribution label with the first being Toot, Whistle, Plunk and Boom being released on the same day. On its release, \"Ben and Me\" was packaged with the True-Life Adventure documentary \"The Living Desert\". When Disney's regular distributor RKO Radio Pictures resisted the idea of a full length True-Life Adventure, Disney formed his own distribution company to handle future Disney releases.\n\nIn DTV, the short was set to Stevie Wonder's \"For Once in My Life\".\n\nIn present day, two tour groups are simultaneously visiting a statue of Benjamin Franklin. The human tour group in front of the statue discusses Franklin's life and achievements, while the leader of a mouse tour group which is standing at the top of Franklin's hat reveals the contributions of a mouse named Amos to Franklin's career.\n\nIn 1745, Amos, the eldest of twenty-six siblings living in the Christ Church in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania decides to leave his family - thus relieving them of another mouse (mouth) to feed - and find work somewhere. After no luck, and while trying to take shelter from a freezing and snowy night, Amos befriends Benjamin Franklin in his printing shop. Eventually Amos aids in Franklin's publishing, inventing, and political career. Amongst Amos' contributions were making bifocals, inspiring Franklin to build the Franklin stove and suggesting how to fix a major problem with it, and encouraging Franklin to print an event-oriented newspaper which Amos names the \"Pennsylvania Gazette\".\n\nAfter Ben's experiments with electricity endanger Amos' life, especially in Ben's kite experiment, Amos leaves Ben, ignoring Ben's pleas for him to return, and moves back in with his family.\n\nYears later, Franklin is sent to England as part of a colonial attempt to reason with the king. But the mission is a failure. Franklin tells the crowd when he gets off a boat that \"The King was unreasonable. He wouldn't listen.\" Amos, hearing this and seeing the confusion and anger of the colonists—realises that he could help, but he initially refuses. Amos and Franklin finally resolve their disagreements in the midst of the American Revolution, and Amos and Franklin play a key role aiding Thomas Jefferson with the drafting of the United States Declaration of Independence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239597", "title": "Focus Ireland", "text": "Focus Ireland\n\nFocus Ireland is a nonprofit organisation based in Dublin, Ireland that provides services for people who are homeless and people at risk of homelessness in Ireland. It was founded by Sister Stanislaus Kennedy in 1985, and is one of the largest housing and homelessness organisations in Ireland. It provides services in Dublin, Cork, Limerick, Kilkenny, Sligo, Kildare, Carlow, Tipperary, Wexford and Waterford. \n\nThe charity's stated mission is \"to advance the right of people-out-of-home to live in a place they call home through quality services, research, and advocacy\". In 2017 it spent €26.3 million to that end. Focus Ireland receives approximately half of its budget each year through State funding and has to raise the other 50% through donations from the public, events and corporate support.\n\nAccording to its 2018 annual report, Focus Ireland helped over 15,000 people in 2018 who were homeless or at risk of losing their home. According to the same report, the charity's housing association arm had provided over 1,100 homes to individuals and families in Ireland.\n\nAs of May 2020, there were nearly 10,000 people homeless, including over 3,000 children, and Focus Ireland called for a review of the supports offered by the state. The charity also called for an urgent increase in the provision of social and affordable rental housing and for the state to move away from its reliance on providing housing in the private rented market where rents are constantly increasing.\n\nFocus Ireland's work includes lobbying for changes in public policy and provision for those experiencing homelessness. As of the 21st century, Focus Ireland has started to focus on preventing homelessness and on a 'Housing Led' approach by providing a secure home first.\n\nUnder Focus Ireland's 2017 - 2020 Strategy Plan, the organisation's stated aims focus on preventing homelessness and supporting people who are homeless to move into secure accommodation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239602", "title": "Robot Carnival", "text": "Robot Carnival\n\nIt consists of nine shorts by different well-known directors, many of whom started out as animators with little to no directing experience. Each has a distinctive animation style and story ranging from comedic to dramatic storylines. The music was composed by Joe Hisaishi and Isaku Fujita and arranged by Joe Hisaishi, Isaku Fujita and Masahisa Takeichi.\n\nThe takes place in a desert. A boy finds a small \"coming soon\" poster advertising the Robot Carnival, and becomes frightened and agitated. He warns the people in his village, most likely to escape, when a huge machine with many robots performing in niches on its exterior grinds its way right over the village. Once a magnificent traveling showcase, it is now heavily rusted, damaged by decades of weathering in the desert, while its many machines wreak havoc as the village is destroyed beneath its might.\n\nIn the segment (the ninth segment of the OVA), the \"Robot Carnival\" is stopped by a dune in the desert. Unable to climb the sandy obstruction, the Carnival stalls at its base. As the sun sets over the traveling relic, flashback stills recall the grandeur of the Carnival at the peak of its existence—an unparalleled engine of mirth that brought timeless joy to the various cities it visited. At sunrise, the gigantic machine charges forward with a burst of power, and surmounts the dune. The final push proves to be too much for the aged contraption, and it finally goes to pieces in the desert. The bulk of the OVA's credits are then shown concluding with an epilogue.\n\nIn the epilogue at the end of the credits, set years later, a man discovers an orb among the remains and brings it back to his family. It is a music box featuring a miniature robot ballerina. As it dances, the children applaud. The ballerina finishes its dance with a leap into the air and explodes, blowing up the shack where the family lived, leaving \"END\" in enormous letters lying in its place as the only survivor, the family's pet llama, struggles to regain its footing.\n\n\n was directed by Kōji Morimoto. A mad scientist tries to give life to his robot with lightning, just like Frankenstein. During a vicious thunderstorm, the robot is successfully brought to life, and mimics his creator's every movement. Overjoyed, the scientist dances with glee, trips, and falls. Seeing this, the robot dances, trips, and falls on the scientist, killing him.\n\n\nIn \"Deprive\", an alien invasion of robot foot soldiers attacks a city and kidnaps people, including a young girl. Her companion, an android, is damaged, but retains her locket. A human with superhuman abilities is then seen who goes through waves of robots before being stopped by two powerful robots. Captured by the alien leader he is tortured, but it is also revealed to be the Android from earlier, now upgraded into a combat Android with a human disguise. Defeating the two powerful robots and the alien leader, he rescues the girl. Running through the wasteland carrying her, the girl eventually wakes up and recognizes his new form because of the locket he still has.\n\n\n, one of only two segments featuring intelligible dialogue, tells the story of a man who has an obsession with a Gynoid he has been secretly constructing in an attempt to compensate for the lack of any close relationship with his wife and family. The setting seems to be British and of the early twentieth century, but also suggests another planet or a future which has attempted to re-establish a former social structure. When the Gynoid takes on a personality of her own, far beyond what the man had programmed, he smashes her in a fit of panic, and leaves his secret laboratory for what he believes is the last time. Twenty years later, the man has a vision of his Gynoid appearing before him, but then blowing up before he can take her hand. He returns to his shed to find the Gynoid still sitting smashed in a corner, just as she had been left years earlier. Another twenty years elapse, and the Gynoid appears again before the man. This time, he takes her hand and walks into the distance with her, before vanishing in front of his shocked wife.\n\nLittle of the dialogue is actually spoken on-screen - all but a few lines are given in voice-over, or with the speaker's mouth obscured.\n\n\n\"Star Light Angel\" is a bishōjo story featuring two friends—teenage girls—at a robot-themed amusement park. One of the girls finds that her boyfriend is now going out with her friend. Running away in tears, she finds her way to a virtual reality ride. Though pleasant at first, her memory causes the ride to summon a giant laser-breathing mecha. One of the park's robots, actually a human park employee in costume, finds himself in the role of knight in shining armor, allowing her to let go of her darker emotions, and to move forward in her life. The visual style of this segment was heavily influenced by the music video for A-ha's \"Take On Me.\"\n\n\n\"Cloud\" features a robot walking through time, and the evolution of man. The backdrop is animated with clouds that depict various events of the universe, such as the modernization of man as well as the self-destruction of man. Eventually, the same angel who cries for his immortality makes him human towards the end. The animation is done in a scratchboard or rough etching style.\n\n\n is set in the nineteenth century and features two \"giant robots\" directed from within by a human crew. In the style of a movie serial of the sound era, a Westerner in his giant robot attempts to take over Japan, but is challenged by locals operating a \"machine made for the parade\"—a Japanese giant robot. The style of this segment is somewhat reminiscent of a Japanese World War II-era propaganda film. Despite the title of this segment, there is no known prequel or sequel. The Westerner speaks English in the original release.\n\n\n is set in the city of Tokyo as it is overrun by its machines, turned into robots of all shapes and sizes by a robotic magician, the titular Red Neck. They all come alive for a night of revelry, with only a single, drunken human (Chicken Man) awake to witness it. When the sun rises, the robots disappear, and everything is turned back to normal, but Chicken Man awakens to find that the now-restored machines are embedded high up in a set of skyscrapers, while the citizens of Tokyo go about their lives far below.\n\n\nThe OVA was released in Japan on VHS and LaserDisc on July 21, 1987 through JVC. Carl Macek licensed the OVA and released it in theaters and on video in North America in the late 1980s.\n\nA limited edition Region 2 DVD of \"Robot Carnival\" was released in Japan through Beam Entertainment in November 2000. A Region 1 DVD of \"Robot Carnival\" was released in the United States by Discotek Media in 2015 and a Blu-ray was released in 2018.\n\nThe script for the English-dubbed version of \"A Tale of Two Robots\" is slightly different from the original Japanese version and even adds a few lines that are not present in the original version. In addition, a passing reference to Japan's 1854 opening to foreign trade is removed and the foreign antagonist's English dialogue is re-recorded.\n\nSome versions of the English-dub of the release by Streamline Pictures shuffled the order of the segments and modified the \"Ending\" segment by removing the still images of the \"Robot Carnival,\" placing the two animated segments next to each other, and placing all of the credits at the very end of the OVA. The still images of the \"Robot Carnival\" were most likely removed due to Streamline's practice of removing all onscreen kanji from their anime releases in order to \"Americanize\" them. Streamline's producer Carl Macek stated with certainty that the reason for the \"shuffling of segments\" was due to considerations regarding the theatrical exploitation of the OVA.\n\nThe various segments were received separately and then subsequently assembled to fill out 2000 ft reels. In order to keep the actual distribution of the theatrical release manageable, the segments were arranged to minimize reel changes – otherwise it would have required additional reels and therefore additional reel changes to keep the product in its original order and would have added to the cost of the distribution. The decision was mutually agreed upon between Streamline and APPP Regarding the credit sequence and the use of still images – the original production company did not have the proper neutral closing credits available that are required for international distribution, therefore it was mutually decided to create this new closing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239603", "title": "Cobra and Phases Group Play Voltage in the Milky Night", "text": "Cobra and Phases Group Play Voltage in the Milky Night\n\nCobra and Phases Group Play Voltage in the Milky Night is the sixth studio album by English-French avant-pop band Stereolab. It was released on 21 September 1999 in the United States by Elektra Records and on 27 September 1999 in the United Kingdom by Duophonic Records.\n\nCredits for \"Cobra and Phases Group Play Voltage in the Milky Night\" adapted from album liner notes.\n\nStereolab\n\nAdditional musicians\n\nProduction\n\nDesign\n"}
{"id": "2239607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239607", "title": "Turkey trot (dance)", "text": "Turkey trot (dance)\n\nThe basic step consisted of four hopping steps sideways with the feet well apart, first on one leg, then the other with a characteristic rise on the ball of the foot, followed by a drop upon the heel. The dance was embellished with scissor-like flicks of the feet and fast trotting actions with abrupt stops.\n\nIt has been said that dancers John Jarrott and Louise Gruenning introduced this dance as well as the Grizzly Bear at Ray Jones Café in Chicago, IL. around 1909. Another theory states that it originated on the Barbary Coast, San Francisco, California. Joseph M. Daly wrote music for the dance in 1912. Irene and Vernon Castle raised its popularity by dancing the Turkey Trot in the Broadway show The Sunshine Girl.\n\nIt achieved popularity chiefly as a result of its being denounced by the Vatican. It was thought that the positions assumed by the dancers were offensively suggestive. Conservative members of society felt the dance promoted immorality and tried to get it banned at public functions, which only served to increase its popularity.\n\nThere were news reports of dancers being fined because \"their Turkey Trots were interpreted by the courts as disorderly conduct.\" In another instance, fifteen working girls were fired from their jobs with the Philadelphia song publisher Curtis Publishing when they were caught doing the turkey trot, although it was during their lunch break.\n\nOne of the means to combat \"offensive\" dances was the 1913 song, Anti-Ragtime Girl: \"…She don’t do the Bunny Hug, nor dance the Grizzly Bear / She hasn't learned the Turkey Trot / …She can't tell a Tango from a Can Can or a Jig / …She's my little Anti-Ragtime Girl…\".\n\nThe song \"Let's Turkey Trot\" by \"Little Eva\" Boyd and The Cookies (sometimes misattributed to Carole King) reached #20 on the \"Billboard Hot 100\" in February 1963, fifty years after the dance step's heyday.\n\nIn the 8th-season episode of NCIS False Witness, show character Abby Sciuto dances the trot as she examines a turkey as evidence.\n\nIn Season 5, Episode 14 of Mad About You guest star Mel Brooks, playing \"Uncle Phil\", leads a group of hospital attendants in a singing version of The Turkey Trot.\n\nIn Season 2, Episode 5 of the period drama The Duchess of Duke Street, Gemma Jones and Christopher Cazenove perform a version of the Turkey Trot.\n\nIn the 1951 film On Moonlight Bay, Marjorie Winfield (Doris Day) practices the Turkey Trot with her dance instructor Professor Barson (Sig Arno).\n"}
{"id": "2239611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239611", "title": "Alpharetrovirus", "text": "Alpharetrovirus\n\nAlpharetrovirus is a genus of the retroviridae family. It has type C morphology. Members can cause sarcomas, other tumors, and anaemia of wild and domestic birds and also affect rats.\n\nSpecies include the Rous sarcoma virus, avian leukosis virus, and avian myeloblastosis virus.Not all animals that can infect develop cancer. The tumor caused by the virus is usually in the form of lymphoma and leukemia. It occurs after a long and latent process. The tumor cells formed consist of a single progenitor cell and are clonal. However, infection from retroviruses does not directly produce tumors, but only placement and recombination events leading to tumor cell formation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239613", "title": "John I. Thornycroft &amp; Company", "text": "John I. Thornycroft &amp; Company\n\nJohn I. Thornycroft & Company Limited, usually known simply as Thornycroft was a British shipbuilding firm founded by John Isaac Thornycroft in Chiswick in 1866. It moved to Woolston, Southampton, in 1908, merging in 1966 with Vosper & Company to form one organisation called Vosper Thornycroft. From 2002 to 2010 the company acquired several international and US based defence and services companies, and changed name to the VT Group. In 2010 the company was absorbed by Babcock International who retained the UK and international operations, but sold the US based operations to the American Jordan Company, who took the name VT Group.\nJohn Isaac Thornycroft had shown shipbuilding ability when aged 16 he began building a small steam launch in 1859. The vessel was named \"Nautilus\" and in 1862 it proved to be the first steam launch with enough speed to follow the contenders in the University race. The ensuing publicity prompted his father, the sculptor Thomas Thornycroft, to purchase a strip of land along the Thames at Chiswick in 1864, and that became the start of John I. Thornycroft & Co.\n\nIn its first ten years the yard had a very modest production, mostly building steam launches and steam yachts. The breakthrough came in 1873, when the firm built the small steel torpedo craft for the Navy of Norway, followed by similar boats for other navies, and by for the Royal Navy in 1877. Torpedoes and torpedo boats were seen as weapons of the future and throughout the 1870s and 1880s the Thornycroft yard became a major supplier to a number of navies. As Banbury put it:\nThe original boats had locomotive-type boilers but, like its competitors, the company developed a water-tube boiler, patented in 1885 and providing more speed. The size of the vessels grew steadily, exceeding 100 tons with \"Ariete\", delivered to Spain in 1887 and 200 tons in the \"Daring\"-class torpedo-boat destroyers of the Royal Navy. The largest vessel built at Chiswick was the \"Speedy\" of 810 tons. During the 1890s it became increasingly difficult for the new vessels to pass under the Hammersmith Bridge - masts and funnels had to be lowered or removed, and put back in place again further down the Thames, and if something went wrong during trials and the boat had to return to the yard, then the whole process had to be reversed. In 1904 the Oscar Mordaunt yard at Woolston was acquired, and production gradually moved there. At its peak, the yard at Chiswick employed 1,700 men. The production of destroyers at the yard caught the imagination of the writer H.G. Wells, who let George Ponderevo, main character of the book \"Tono-Bungay\", become a destroyer designer in the last chapter, describing a test run of the destroyer \"X 2\" under the Hammersmith Bridge and out into the open sea.\n\nIn the years at Chiswick John Thornycroft increasingly concentrated on the design and development part of the enterprise, while his brother-in-law since 1872, John Donaldson (1841-1899), managed the commercial side. When Donaldson died in 1899, a group of industrialists headed by William Beardmore bought into the company, and they provided much of the financing when it was transformed into the public company \"John I. Thornycroft and Co. Ltd\" in 1901, with Beardmore as chairman. William Beardmore's interest in the company proved rather short-lived and he resigned as chairman in 1907. The management team of the new company consisted of John Thornycroft's son, John Edward Thornycroft as manager, and John Donaldson's son, Thornycroft Donaldson (ca. 1883-1955) as technical director. \n\nThe first ship built by Thornycrofts for the Royal Navy at the Woolston Yard was the . Up to the start of World War I, the yard built 37 destroyers for the Royal Navy and several more for other navies. During the war, the yard made 26 destroyers, 3 submarines and a large number of smaller craft for the Royal Navy. Notable among the smaller craft were the Coastal Motor Boats (built at Hampton - see below), based on a design by John Thornycroft (the elder) who continued working with hull designs at his home on the Isle of Wight until his death in 1928, taking out his last patent in 1924. His daughter, naval architect Blanche Thornycroft worked alongside him (and after his death) testing models, calculating and recording results.\n\nThe construction of smaller boats did not move to Woolston, but to a new yard (\"Hampton Launch Works\") on Platt's Eyot in the Thames at Hampton. The construction on Platt's Eyot included yachts and - during the two world wars - a large number of small vessels for the Royal Navy. The yachts included \"Enola\" (1928), \"Estrellita\" (1934) (now called \"Rake's Retreat\"), (1935), and \"Moonyeen\" (1937). The pre-war motor yacht \"Prunella\" may also have been built at Hampton. These four have survived and are now recorded on National Historic Ships' National Register.\n\nIn the inter-war years there was still some construction for the Royal Navy at Woolston, but the yard also built civilian ships, like the ferry for Uganda in 1930. She apparently still survives, but as a half-submerged wreck on the shore of Lake Albert. When World War II broke out, production was stepped up again, and the yard built corvettes and destroyers. Production was delayed by several bombings, probably influenced by the yard's proximity to the Spitfire-building Supermarine factory, also situated in Woolston. That factory was bombed extensively in the beginning of the war, and Thornycroft's yard received its fair share of the bombs. Among the more notable ships built by the yard in the war years were the two destroyer escorts, HMS \"Bissenden\" and , (Type IV) with better stability than their sisters. The largest naval vessel built at Woolston during the war years was the fast minelayer of 2,650 tons, with turbines capable of and a speed of .\n\nThe first seaworthy Assault Landing Craft (ALC), later renamed LCA, Landing Craft Assault, ordered built for the British Navy were by Thornycroft. The first prototype ALC No 1 was built by J. Samuel White of Cowes to a design by Fleming Jenkin, but it was not very successful. Thornycroft's design was much closer to what the navy wanted, with its low silhouette, silenced engines and shallow draught. Designated ALC No 2, it was long overall and driven by two Ford V8 engines of each. The design was slightly modified by the Admiralty and some 1,929 were built during World War II. In 1944 sixty were being built each month. The LCA was reasonably seaworthy, so long as waves were less than high. In heavy seas the situation could become critical and a number of LCAs converted to support craft disappeared in the choppy seas of D-Day, 6 June 1944. In 1944 267 were lost (out of 371 losses during the whole war).\n\nIn 1955, the company built , a passenger ferry built for the Isles of Scilly Steamship Company.\n\nIn July 1960 John Ward Thornycroft, John Edward Thornycroft's son, replaced his father as chairman of the company.\n\nIn 1962, John I. Thornycroft and Sons was building wooden yachts in Singapore.\n\nThornycrofts merged in 1966 with Vosper & Company, part of the David Brown Group, to form one organisation called, by 1970, Vosper Thornycroft. The merger made sense, as Thornycroft had yard space but few orders, while Vosper had the orders but lacked the space. The combined company built new facilities at Woolston and production continued there until 2004. But by 2003 the company had outgrown even these facilities, and it was decided to move production to a new yard at Portchester, Hampshire.\n\nLater, Vosper Thornycroft changed their business name to VT Group, and in 2010 were absorbed by Babcock International, who integrated the UK portion of VT Group into its own business, then in 2012 sold the US-based operation and the VT Group name to the Jordan Company.\n\nHMS Duchess - Daring class destroyer 1952\n\n"}
{"id": "2239614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239614", "title": "Foil (fluid mechanics)", "text": "Foil (fluid mechanics)\n\nA foil is a solid object with a shape such that when placed in a moving fluid at a suitable angle of attack the lift (force generated perpendicular to the fluid flow) is substantially larger than the drag (force generated parallel to the fluid flow). If the fluid is a gas, the foil is called an airfoil or aerofoil, and if the fluid is water the foil is called a hydrofoil.\n\nA foil generates lift primarily because of its shape and angle of attack. When oriented at a suitable angle, the foil deflects the oncoming fluid, resulting in a force on the foil in the direction opposite to the deflection. This force can be resolved into two components: lift and drag. This \"turning\" of the fluid in the vicinity of the foil creates curved streamlines which results in lower pressure on one side and higher pressure on the other. This pressure difference is accompanied by a velocity difference, via Bernoulli's principle, so for foils with positive angles-of attack, and other than flat-plates, the resulting flowfield about the foil has a higher average velocity on the upper surface than on the lower surface.\n\nA more detailed description of the flowfield is given by the simplified Navier-Stokes equations, applicable when the fluid is incompressible. However, since the effects of the compressibility of air at low speeds is negligible, these simplified equations can be used for both airfoils and hydrofoils as long as the fluid flow is substantially less than the speed of sound (up to about Mach 0.3).\n\nThe degenerate case of a foil is a simple flat plate. When set at an angle (the angle of attack) to the flow the plate will deflect the fluid passing over and under it, and this deflection will result in a lift force on the plate. However, while it does generate lift, it also generates a large amount of drag.\n\nSince even a simple flat plate can generate lift, a significant factor in foil design is the minimization of drag. An example of this is the rudder of a boat or aircraft. When designing a rudder a key design factor is the minimization of drag in its neutral position, which is balanced with the need to produce sufficient lift with which to turn the craft at a reasonable rate.\n\nOther types of foils, both natural and man-made, seen both in air and water, have features that delay or control the onset of lift-induced drag, \"flow separation\", and stall (see Bird flight, Fin, Airfoil, Placoid scale, Tubercle, Vortex generator, Canard (close-coupled), Blown flap, Leading edge slot, Leading edge slats), as well as Wingtip vortices (see Winglet).\n\nLifted weight is proportional to lift coefficient, density of fluid, wing area and true speed by square. A comparison of lifted weight as a function of altitude and depth reveals big differences by a factor of about 3’000 in total from 11 km above sea level to 10 km below sea level, divided into factors of:\n~ 4 between summit and sea level,\n~ 400 between flying close to the ground\nand planing on water,\n~ 2 between planing on water\nand in a fully submerged state.\nThe most dramatic changes are due to different fluids and levels of altitude. The most interesting sector to discuss lift is close to sea level: aircraft approaching the ground, plates planing on water and hydrofoils only barely submerged in water. There is one basic similarity across of these: Almost any shape, as long as it is not too thick, will work as an (air)foil and produce lift when the angle of attack is in the right range.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239619", "title": "Coire", "text": "Coire\n\nCoire may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2239621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239621", "title": "Dirk Bikkembergs", "text": "Dirk Bikkembergs\n\nDirk Bikkembergs (born 2 January 1959) is a Belgian fashion designer.\n\nDirk Bikkembergs was born in Cologne, Germany, as his father was in the Belgian Army. He lived most of his younger years in Diepenbeek, Limburg, Belgium. In 1982, Bikkembergs graduated from the Royal Academy of Fine Arts in Antwerp, Belgium. \n\nIn 1996, the Bikkembergs label was introduced to focus on football dress. He was the first fashion designer ever who received permission to hold a fashion show in a football stadium.\n\nDirk started using the team as his laboratory for styling and fabric technology. From exclusive jackets to high-performance underwear, all his designs are now tested and promoted by football players. The Dirk Bikkembergs Group’s sponsorship of the team, now re-christened F.C. Bikkembergs Fossombrone, involved not only investment to bring in fresh talent, but also a revamp of their image.\n\n\n\nVIDEO BY MILAN FASHION WEEK SS15 https://web.archive.org/web/20140716002031/http://hdfashion.net/ru/videoline/fashion-show/item/1888-dirk-bikkembergs-ss15"}
{"id": "2239623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239623", "title": "Rhode Island Route 110", "text": "Rhode Island Route 110\n\nRoute 110 is a numbered state highway running wholly within the town of South Kingstown in Rhode Island. It serves to connect the University of Rhode Island to points south via U.S. Route 1 (US 1).\n\nRoute 110 begins at US 1 near the village of Perryville in the town of South Kingstown. The route heads north for following Ministerial Road through the wetlands of the Great Swamp. Along the way it intersects with the William C. O'Neill Bike Path Soon after crossing some railroad tracks, Route 110 ends at an intersection with Route 138 in the village of West Kingston.\n\nRoute 110 was assigned to Ministerial Road by 1969.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239627", "title": "Palazzo Rucellai", "text": "Palazzo Rucellai\n\nPalazzo Rucellai is a palatial fifteenth-century townhouse on the Via della Vigna Nuova in Florence, Italy. The Rucellai Palace is believed by most scholars to have been designed for Giovanni di Paolo Rucellai by Leon Battista Alberti between 1446 and 1451 and executed, at least in part, by Bernardo Rossellino. Its splendid facade was one of the first to proclaim the new ideas of Renaissance architecture based on the use of pilasters and entablatures in proportional relationship to each other. The Rucellai Palace demonstrates the impact of the antique revival but does so in a manner which is full of Renaissance originality.\n\nThe grid-like facade, achieved through the application of a scheme of trabeated articulation, makes a statement of rational humanist clarity. \nThe stone veneer of this facade is given a channeled rustication and serves as the background for the smooth-faced pilasters and entablatures which divide the facade into a series of three-story bays. The three stories of the Rucellai facade have different classical orders, as in the Colosseum, but with the Tuscan order at the base, a Renaissance original in place of the Ionic order at the second level, and a very simplified Corinthian order at the top level. Twin-lit, round-arched windows in the two upper stories are set within arches with highly pronounced voussoirs that spring from pilaster to pilaster. The facade is topped by a boldly projecting cornice.\n\nThe ground floor was for business (the Rucellai family were powerful bankers) and was flanked by benches running along the street facade. The second story (the \"piano nobile\") was the main formal reception floor and the third story the private family and sleeping quarters. A fourth \"hidden\" floor under the roof was for servants; with almost no windows, it is quite dark inside.\n\nThe palace contains an off-center court (three sides of which originally were surrounded by arcades), built to a design that may have been adapted from Brunelleschi's loggia at his Spedale degli Innocenti. In the triangular Piazza dei Rucellai in front of the palace and set at right angles to it is the Loggia de' Rucellai, which was used for family celebrations, weddings, and as a public meeting place. The two buildings (palace and loggia) taken together with the open space between them (the piazza), form one of the most refined urban compositions of the Italian Renaissance.\n\nAny evaluation of the stylistic significance of the Rucellai Palace must take into account similar Florentine residences of the period, such as the Palazzo Medici Riccardi (then Palazzo de' Medici), the Palazzo Strozzino, the Palazzo Strozzi, and the Palazzo Spinelli. An accurate appraisal of the Rucellai Palace's architectural importance has been hindered by uncertainties concerning when and by whom it was constructed. Traditionally, and supported by some 16th-century sources, it has been dated to the period 1446-51, making the facades of both the Medici and Rucellai palaces contemporaries.\n\nIn 1974, Charles Mack proposed a two-phase construction history for the palace based upon his interpretation of property descriptions contained in the tax declarations of Giovanni Rucellai, members of his family, and neighbors. In these tax records, the location of property is defined by naming adjacent features be they streets or neighbors. Mack, thus, was able to reconstruct ownership histories for the site now occupied by the palace for pertinent tax year. What Mack discovered substantiates Giovanni Rucellai' own testimony that \"out of eight houses, I made one.\" Eight dwellings did, in fact, once occupy the site of the present Rucellai Palace.\n\nRecords for the tax year 1446 show that Giovanni Rucellai and his immediate family lived in a house at the corner of the Via della Vigna Nuova and the narrow Via dei Palchetti. Evidently intending to enlarge his living quarters in keeping with his growing financial and civic standing, he had acquired a row of houses along the Via dei Palchetti. Shortly thereafter, the house contiguous to his own along the Via della Vigna Nuova, owned by his mother, passed into Rucellai's hands. Finally (c. 1460), the house adjoining his mother's was added to the growing residential complex. The present internal disposition of the palace testifies to the agglutinative process by which the building evolved. By 1455 one of the Via dei Palchetti houses had been razed and replaced by a courtyard surrounded on three sides by arcades whose round arches were supported by Corinthian columns. A cross-vaulted corridor now linked the courtyard with the Via della Vigna Nuova.\n\nExternally, the hodgepodge way in which the Rucellai Palace was created may be seen along the Via dei Palchetti. Standing in the Piazza dei Rucellai, however, the impression given by the celebrated facade is one of harmony and unity. It was to visually solidify the three separate houses along the Via della Vigna Nuova, that Rucellai sought a facade which, furthermore, would testify to his progressive taste and prominent standing within the community. Exactly when the design and execution of that historic facade took place remains uncertain. Paolo Sanpaolesi (1963), seconded by Brenda Preyer (1981), proposed a two-phase facade construction, with the first (c. 1450), equal to five bays, covering the exteriors of the old dwellings of Giovanni and his mother and then a later two bay expansion to cover the house added in 1460. That Rucellai never managed to add the next house in the row to his holdings would account for the facade remaining unfinished and one bay short of the eight intended.\n\nMack (1974), together with by Kurt Forster (1976) and Howard Saalman (1966) have interpreted the evidence differently, arguing that that work on the facade would have awaited the acquisition of the third property along the Via della Vigna Nuova and was stimulated by the engagement of Rucellai's son Bernardo to Piero di Cosimo de' Medici's daughter Nannina in 1461. According to this theory it could only have been after the betrothal, that the pairing of clearly identifiable Medici devices with those of the Rucellai in the friezes could have been permissible. The same is case for the Medici interlocking rings insignia that occupy the spandrels of the windows. That would postpone construction of the Rucellai facade to a date after 1461 and calls into question its primacy over the almost identical design used for the Palazzo Piccolomini (designed by Bernardo Rossellino 1459-62) in the papal city of Pienza.\n\nThat post-1461 dating raises once more the question of authorship. Based upon the word of Giorgio Vasari and some other mid-to-late-16th century comments as well as upon Giovanni Rucellai's known use of Leon Battista Alberti as the architect of his chapel in the neighboring church of San Pancrazio and for the completion of the facade of Santa Maria Novella, the great humanist scholar and artistic theoretician commonly has been accepted as having been responsible for the design of the Rucellai Palace's facade. However, the first comments on the facade, made in the early 16th century do not mention Alberti but rather link it to Bernardo Rossellino by saying that he had made the model for the palace. That might mean that he was responsible for the facade or simply that he had furnished a model following someone's directions (i.e., Alberti).\n\nThe first to doubt Alberti's role as the architect was Julius Schlosser who wrote (1929) that \"It is Bernardo Rossellino's spirit and not Alberti's that is at work here.\" Schlosser's opinion was seconded by Leo Planiscig (1942), Howard Saalman (1966), and Mario Salmi (1967). Basing his opinion on the tax information which pointed to a later dating for the facade stage of the Rucellai project and the possible precedence of the Piccolomini Palace in Pienza, Mack argued for Bernardo Rossellino' authorship in 1974, receiving support from Forster (1976) and Marvin Trachtenberg (2000). Despite these attempts at rethinking the facade and its date, general support for Alberti remains and strong counter arguments in his favor have been made by Brenda Preyer (1981) and others. While Bernardo Rossellino's role in remodeling the interior of the palace, in constructing the entry passage, and in creating the courtyard is universally accepted, his involvement with the celebrated facade and the date it was executed remain open questions that, perhaps, will only be resolved should some new documentary evidence surface.\n"}
{"id": "2239638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239638", "title": "Sound-Dust", "text": "Sound-Dust\n\nSound-Dust is the seventh studio album by English-French avant-pop band Stereolab. It was released on 28 August 2001 in the United Kingdom by Duophonic Records and on 3 September 2001 in the United States by Elektra Records. The album was co-produced by John McEntire and Jim O'Rourke and recorded at McEntire's Chicago studio. It was Stereolab's last album to feature singer and guitar player Mary Hansen, who died in a biking accident the following year.\n\nLimited quantities of handmade book sleeves were released for both CD and LP issues of the album, limited to 1,200 copies for each. The track \"Nothing to Do with Me\" features lyrics derived from English satirist Chris Morris' TV series \"Jam\".\n\nCredits for \"Sound-Dust\" adapted from album liner notes.\n\nStereolab\n\nAdditional musicians\n\nProduction\n\nArtwork and design\n\nManagement\n"}
{"id": "2239645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239645", "title": "Count Johann Bernhard von Rechberg und Rothenlöwen", "text": "Count Johann Bernhard von Rechberg und Rothenlöwen\n\nCount Johann Bernhard von Rechberg und Rothenlöwen () (17 July 1806 – 26 February 1899) was an Austrian statesman.\n\nBorn at Regensburg the second son of the Bavarian statesman Count Aloys von Rechberg und Rothenlöwen (1766–1849), Johann Bernhard was destined for the Bavarian public service, his elder brother being a hereditary member of the Upper House in the parliament of Württemberg. He was educated at the universities of Strassburg and Munich, but he incurred the displeasure of King Ludwig I of Bavaria by the part he played as second in a duel, and in 1828 he transferred himself to the Austrian diplomatic service.\n\nAfter being attached to the embassies in Berlin, London and Brussels, he was appointed envoy at Stockholm (1841) and at Rio de Janeiro (1843). Returning to Europe in 1847, on the outbreak of the Revolution of 1848 in Vienna he was of great service to State Chancellor Prince Klemens von Metternich, whom he accompanied and assisted in his flight to England. In July 1848 he was appointed Austrian plenipotentiary in the German Frankfurt Parliament, in 1851 became Austrian internuncius at Constantinople, and in 1853 Radetzky's civilian colleague in the government of Lombardy-Venetia. In 1855 he returned to Frankfurt as Austrian representative and president of the federal diet. As a pupil of Metternich he would have wished to preserve the good understanding with Prussia which seemed the necessary foundation for a conservative policy; he was, however, made the instrument for the anti-Prussian policy of Buol, the foreign minister; this brought about constant disputes with Bismarck, at that time Prussian envoy at the diet, which were sharpened by Rechberg's choleric temper, and on one occasion nearly led to a duel. Bismarck, however, always expressed a high appreciation of his character and abilities. In May 1859, on the eve of the Second Italian War of Independence (1859), he was appointed Austrian minister of foreign affairs and minister-president, surrendering the latter post to the Archduke Rainer in the following year.\n\nThe five years during which Rechberg held the portfolio of foreign affairs covered the war with Piedmont and France, the insurrection in Poland, the attempted reform of the German Confederation through the Frankfurt Fürstentag, and the Austro-Prussian war with Denmark. After the defeat of Magenta Rechberg accompanied the emperor to Italy, and he had to meet the crisis caused by a war for which he was not responsible. He began the concessions to Hungary and in the Polish question, and was responsible for the adhesion of Austria to the alliance of the Western Powers. In the German question Rechberg's policy was one of compromise. To the project of the Fürstentag he was altogether opposed. The project had been suggested to the emperor Franz Joseph by his son-in-law, the hereditary prince of Thurn und Taxis, and the preliminary arrangements were made without Rechberg being informed. When at last he was told, he tendered his resignation, which was not accepted, and he accompanied the emperor to the abortive meeting at Frankfurt (August 1863). The attempt made by Rechberg at the subsequent ministerial conference at Nuremberg to establish a German league without Prussia was equally unsuccessful, and he now returned to the policy, which in opposition to Schmerling he had throughout advocated, of a peaceful arrangement between Prussia and Austria as the indispensable preliminary to a reform of the Confederation.\n\nAt this juncture the death of King Frederick VII of Denmark (15 November 1863) opened up the whole Schleswig-Holstein question. In the diplomatic duel that followed Rechberg was no match for Bismarck. It suited Austrian policy to act in concert with Prussia against Denmark; but Rechberg well knew that Bismarck was aiming at the annexation of the duchies. He attempted to guard against this by laying down as a condition of the alliance that the duchies should only be separated from Denmark by common consent of the two German powers. Bismarck, however, insisted that the question of the ultimate destination of the duchies should be left open; and, when he backed his argument with the threat that unless Austria accepted his proposal Prussia would act alone, Rechberg gave way. His action was made the object of violent attacks in the Austrian Lower House (28–30 January 1864), and when the war was victoriously concluded and Prussia's designs on the duchies had become evident, public opinion turned more and more against him, demanding that Austria should support the Duke of Augustenburg even at the risk of war. Rechberg yielded so far as to assure the duke's representative at Vienna that Austria was determined to place him in possession of the duchies, but only on condition that he did not sign away any of his sovereign rights to Prussia. The outcome of this was that the duke refused the terms offered by King William and Bismarck.\n\nOn 22 August there was a meeting of the emperor Franz Joseph and King William at Schönbrunn, both Rechberg and Bismarck being present. Rechberg himself was in favor of allowing Prussia to annex the duchies, on condition that Prussia should guarantee Austria's possession of Venice and the Adriatic coast. On the first point no agreement was reached; but the principles of an Austro-Prussian alliance in the event of a French invasion of Italy were agreed upon. This latter proposal was, however, received with violent opposition in the ministry, where Rechberg's influence had long been overshadowed by that of Schmerling; public opinion, utterly distrustful of Prussian promises, was also greatly excited; and on 27 October Rechberg handed in his resignation, receiving at the same time the Order of the Golden Fleece from the emperor as a sign of special favor. He had been made an hereditary member of the Upper House of the Reichsrat in 1861, and as late as 1879 continued occasionally to take part in debates. He died at his chateau (\"Schloss Altkettenhof\") of Kettenhof (\"today\": Schwechat) near Vienna on 26 February 1899. He had married, in 1834, Hon. Barbara Jones, eldest daughter of the 6th Viscount Ranelagh, by whom he had one son, Count Louis (b. 1835).\n"}
{"id": "2239648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239648", "title": "The Little Island", "text": "The Little Island\n\nThe Little Island is a 1958 British animated short film directed, produced, and animated by Richard Williams. It was his first film. Self-financed, it was a half-hour philosophical argument without words. It won the 1958 BAFTA award for Animated Film.\n\nThe film features three men who each only believe in one thing: one in Good, one in Truth, and one in Beauty. They cast themselves onto a small island where they sit next to each other. Many days pass, and they begin to express themselves. It starts in small ways, simply making noise. The three start to annoy each other, and they stop. As more time passes, however, they begin to express their ideas.\n\nTruth is first. He sits in yoga positions and begins to project shapes, such as suns, lotus flowers and four almond-shaped eyes. These eyes move around in strange patterns before becoming part of a four-eyed demon who dances for a moment, then explodes. A pinball bounces between many pairs of eyes, building up speed before landing on Truth's head, which causes him to visualize an expanding shape, and reveals itself to be a huge, beautiful flower. The shape collapses, which stuns Truth out of his trance, much to his embarrassment.\n\nBeauty performs ballet and transforms into a Nubian figure. He morphs into calligraphy-like shapes before changing to his normal shape, but in a white robe. He begins to play a flute, flowers growing around him as he plays faster and faster before he becomes one himself. A Greek statue of a woman appears. The \"William Tell\" Overture begins to play, and a tall man and a short man carrying a frame walk up to the statue and \"capture\" it inside it, removing its head and base. They walk on as the Overture plays, but the picture soon splits in half, since the men walk at different speeds. Confused, they put it back together after several odd attempts, and soon climb a long staircase with it. They climb high up into the sky into an art gallery, where it's placed with hundreds of identical pictures, except for one.\n\nThis picture shows a scene where a small head, in profile, sees an object and begins to talk happily about it, his speaking expressed by a cello playing. Another man comes next to him, facing him, and sees the object as well. He discusses it with him, but the two heads soon begin arguing harshly. A pillar grows out from under the left head, making him sit above the other. He responds by growing another column underneath him, and the two heads quickly try to one-up each other, their columns growing and their arguing becoming worse. Soon, they can't go any higher, and push themselves into each other, forming a babbling head in front-view. The scene zooms out to show dozens of these heads on high columns, chattering away. Beauty's vision ends here, and he bows to the other two.\n\nGood expresses himself next, kissing the other two and dancing. He transforms into a figure with a robe, begins to make noises like a pipe organ, then transforms into a church-like structure with an onion dome. Small black figures go through a door at his base, and turn white as they go through it. He transforms into a warrior with a huge sword and shield, blood running down his sword, before changing back to his old shape. A beautiful woman approaches and tries to seduce him, but he pushes her away. Another figure offers him wine, but he flattens him with a hammer, then transforms into a futuristic warrior with a ray gun. A large heart comes out of the ray gun and shatters, breaking his meditation. He looks at them, embarrassed.\n\nMore time passes, and Beauty starts to express himself again, changing into the Nubian figure with a harp, playing a repetitive tune and swishing his long hair. This annoys Good, who responds by gathering smaller figures to join hands around him and playing the same tune back at him. Truth, hovering overhead, is annoyed at both of them. After trying to outdo each other, they all abruptly change back. Soon, though, Beauty is at it again, and Good responds by forming into a warrior with a blunderbuss and a small army gathers around him. Initially concerned, Beauty responds by changing into the Nubian figure with a fencing foil. Good attempts to shoot him, but Beauty dodges his shots and skewers his army (after a long dance) and starts playing them like his harp, which infuriates Good.\n\nTruth hovers above, angry at the both of them, and after a sporadic fit, a snake coils around him, possibly representing the caduceus. After this, they all change back, but Good and Beauty are plotting against each other. Good raises his fist, which grows and grows until it hovers over him and flattens him, possibly representing punishment for thinking evil thoughts. Good grows into a huge monster, ten times the size of the other two, but each time he does, the fist bears down on him again. In response, Beauty turns back into the figure, this time with a bow and arrow, and shoots the fist, to Good's alarm. A drop of blood falls on Good, which sends him into a rage as Beauty cockily plays his tune on his bow. He changes into the monster, grabs Beauty, throws him against the ground and kicks him. He pulls off his hair and throws it back at him, which causes Beauty to lose his temper, and he transforms into a similar monster to fight Good.\n\nGood and Beauty approach each other with daggers and soon run into each other. They get tangled up, and soon start to resemble a bull. Up above, tangled in the Caduceus, Truth is angry at them. He puts on a lab coat, and the Caduceus transforms into a chemistry coil. Good and Beauty soon appear to transform into a machine, tank treads, nuts and rivets appearing across their bodies, much to Truth's dismay. He walks over to a chalkboard and begins to write formulas on it. As he does, it grows and grows, and eventually takes on the shape of a giant nuclear bomb, 100 times his size, pointed down at them. He doesn't notice it initially until it begins to tick. The ticking builds and builds as the three look on, terrified. It soon explodes, and the three men change back. Horrified by this vision, they immediately leave the island. \n\n"}
{"id": "2239651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239651", "title": "Betaretrovirus", "text": "Betaretrovirus\n\nBetaretrovirus is a genus of the \"Retroviridae\" family. It has type B or type D morphology. The type B is common for a few exogenous, vertically transmitted and endogenous viruses of mice; some primate and sheep viruses are the type D.\n\nExamples are \"Mouse mammary tumor virus\", enzootic nasal tumor virus (ENTV-1, ENTV-2), and simian retrovirus types 1, 2 and 3 (SRV-1, SRV-2, SRV-3).\n\n"}
{"id": "2239652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239652", "title": "Spanish Colonial architecture", "text": "Spanish Colonial architecture\n\nSpanish Colonial architecture represents Spanish colonial influence on New World and East Indies' cities and towns, and it is still being seen in the architecture as well as in the city planning aspects of conserved present-day cities. These two visible aspects of the city are connected and complementary. The 16th century Laws of the Indies included provisions for the layout of new colonial settlements in the Americas and elsewhere.\n\nTo achieve the desired effect of inspiring awe among the Indigenous peoples of the Americas as well as creating a legible and militarily manageable landscape, the early colonizers used and placed the new architecture within planned townscapes and compounds.\n\nThe new churches and mission stations, for example, aimed for maximum effect in terms of their imposition and domination of the surrounding buildings or countryside. In order for that to be achievable, they had to be strategically located – at the center of a town square (plaza) or at a higher point in the landscape. These elements are common and can also be found in almost every city and town in Spain.\n\nThe Spanish Colonial style of architecture dominated in the early Spanish colonies of North and South America, and were also somewhat visible in its other colonies. It is sometimes marked by the contrast between the simple, solid construction demanded by the new environment and the Baroque ornamentation exported from Spain.\n\nMexico, as the center of New Spain—and the richest province of Spain's colonial empire—has some of the most renowned buildings built in this style. With twenty-nine sites, Mexico has more sites on the UNESCO World Heritage list than any other country in the Americas, many of them boasting some of the richest Spanish Colonial architecture. Some of the most famous cities in Mexico built in the Colonial style are Puebla, Zacatecas, Querétaro, Guanajuato, and Morelia.\n\nThe historic center of Mexico City is a mixture of architectural styles from the 16th century to the present. The Metropolitan Cathedral – built from 1563 to 1813 in a variety of styles including the Renaissance, Baroque, and Neo Classical. The rich interior is mostly Baroque. Other examples are the Palacio Nacional, the beautifully restored 18th-century Palacio de Iturbide, the 16th-century Casa de los Azulejos – clad with 18th-century blue-and-white talavera tiles, and many more churches, cathedrals, museums, and palaces of the elite.\n\nDuring the late 17th century to 1750, one of Mexico's most popular architectural styles was Mexican Churrigueresque. These buildings were built in an ultra-Baroque, fantastically extravagant and visually frenetic style.\n\nAntigua Guatemala in Guatemala is also known for its well preserved Spanish colonial style architecture. The city of Antigua is famous for its well-preserved Spanish Mudéjar-influenced Baroque architecture as well as a number of spectacular ruins of colonial churches dating from the 16th century. It has been designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site.\n\nThe Ciudad Colonial (colonial city) of Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, founded in 1498, is the oldest European city in the New World and a prime example of this architectural style. The port of Cartagena, Colombia, founded in 1533 and Santa Ana de Coro, Venezuela, founded in 1527, are two more UNESCO World Heritage Sites preserving some of the best Spanish colonial architecture in the Caribbean.\" San Juan was founded by the Spaniards in 1521, where Spanish colonial architecture can be found like the Historic Hotel El Convento. Also, Old San Juan with its walled city and buildings (ranging from 1521 to the early 20th century) are very good examples, and in excellent condition.\n\nSt. Augustine, the first continuously European-occupied city in North America, was established in 1565. Beginning in 1598, quarried coquina from Anastasia Island contributed to a new colonial style of architecture in this city. Coquina is a limestone conglomerate, containing small shells of mollusks. It was used in the construction of residential homes, the City Gate, the Cathedral Basilica, the Castillo de San Marcos, and Fort Matanzas.\n\nAccording to UNESCO, Quito, Ecuador has the largest, best-preserved, and least-altered historic centre (320 hectares) in Latin America, despite several earthquakes. It was the first city that was inscribed onto the UNESCO World Heritage List, along with Kraków, Poland in 1978. The historic district of this city is the sole largest and best preserved area of Spanish Colonial architecture in the world.\n\nThe idea of laying out a city in a grid pattern is not unique to the Spanish. In fact, it never started out with the Spanish colonizers. It has been traced back to some ancient civilizations especially the ancient cities of the Aztec and Maya, and also Ancient Greeks. The idea was spread by the Roman conquest of European empires and its ideas were adopted by other civilizations. It was popularized at different paces and in different levels throughout the Renaissance—the French took to building grid-like villages (ville-neuves) and the English, under King Edward I did as well. Some argue, however, that Spain was not part of this movement to order towns as grids. Despite its clear military advantage, and despite the knowledge of city planning, the New World settlements of the Spanish actually grew amorphously for some three to four decades before they turned to grids and city plans as ways of organizing space.\nIn contrast to the orders given much later on how the city should be laid out, Ferdinand II did not give specific instructions for how to build the new settlements in the Caribbeans. To Nicolas De Ovando, he said the following in 1501:\n\nIn 1513 the monarchs wrote out a set of guidelines that ordained the conduct of Spaniards in the New World as well as that of the Indians that they found there. With regards to city planning, these ordinances had details on the preferred location of a new town and its location relative to the sea, mountains and rivers. It also detailed the shape and measurements of the central plaza taking into account the spacing for purposes of trade as well as the spacing for purposes of festivities or even military operations—occasions that involved horse-riding. In addition to specifying the location of the church, the orientation of roads that run into the main plaza as well as the width of the street with respect to climatic conditions, the guidelines also specified the order in which the city must be built.\n\nThe \"traza\" or layout was the pattern on which Spanish American cities were built beginning in the colonial era. At the heart of Spanish colonial cities was a central plaza, with the main church, town council (\"cabildo\") building, residences of the main civil and religious officials, and the residences of the most important residents (\"vecinos\") of the town built there. The principal businesses were also located around this central plan. Radiated from the main square were streets in at right angles, a grid that could extend as the settlement grew, impeded only by geography. About three decades into colonization of the New World, the conquistadores started to build and plan cities according to laws prescribed by the monarchs in the Laws of the Indies. In addition to describing other aspects of the interactions between the Spanish conquerors and the natives they encountered, these laws ordained the specific ways new settlements should be laid out. In addition to specifying the layout, the laws also required a pattern in settlement based on social standing, in which the people of higher social status lived closer to the center of the town, the center of political, ecclesiastical, and economic power. The 1790 census for Mexico City indicates that in the traza that there was indeed a higher concentration of Spaniards (\"españoles\"), but that there was no absolute racial or class segregation in the city, particularly since elite households usually had non-white servants.\n\nThe grid was not limited to Spanish settlements; however, \"Reducciones\" Indian Reductions and \"Congregaciones\" were created in a similar grid-like manner for Indians in order to organize these populations in more manageable units for purposes of taxation, military efficiency and in order to teach Indians the way of the Spanish.\n\nModern cities in Latin America have grown, and consequently erased or jumbled the previous standard spatial and social organization of the cityscape. Elites do not always live closer to the city center, and the point-space occupied by individuals is not necessarily determined by their social status. The central plaza, the wide streets and a grid pattern are still common elements in Mexico City and Puebla de Los Angeles. It is not uncommon in modern-founded towns, especially those in remote areas of Latin America, to have retained the \"checkerboard layout\" even to present day.\n\nMexico City is a good example of how these ordinances were followed in laying out a city. Previously the capital of the Aztec empire, Tenochtitlan was captured and placed under Spanish rule in 1521. After news of the conquest, the king sent instructions very similar to the aforementioned Ordinance of 1513. In some parts the instructions are almost verbatim to his previous ones. The instructions were meant to direct the conqueror—Hernán Cortés—on how to lay out the city and how to allocate land to the Spaniards. It is pointed out, however, that though the king might have sent many such orders and instructions to other conquistadores, Cortés was perhaps the first one to implement them. He insisted on carrying out the building of a new city where the Indian Empire had stood, and he incorporated features of the old plaza into the new grid. Much was accomplished since he was accompanied by men familiar with the grid system and the royal instructions. The point here is that Cortés accomplished the planning and was on his way to finish the building of Mexico City before the royal ordinances addressed specifically to him even arrived. Men like Cortés and Alonso García Bravo (who is also called \"the good geometer\"), played a crucial role in creating a city scape of New World cities as we know them.\n\nIn places of dense indigenous settlement, such as in Central Mexico, the mendicant orders (Franciscans, Dominicans, and Augustinians) built churches on the sites of prehispanic temples. In the early period of the \"spiritual conquest\", there were so many indigenous neophytes who attended Mass that a large open-air atrium was built, walling off a space within the church complex to create an enlarged sacred space without great expense of building. Indigenous labor was used in construction; since a communities sacred place was a symbol and embodiment of that community, laboring to create these structures was not necessarily an unwanted burden. Since Mexico experienced many sixteenth-century epidemics that drastically diminished the size of the central Mexican indigenous population, there were often elaborate churches with few Indians still living to attend them, such as the Augustinian church at Acolman, Mexico. The different mendicant orders had distinct styles of building. Franciscans built large churches to accommodate the new neophytes, Dominican churches were highly ornamented, while the Augustinian churches were characterized by their critics as opulent and sumptuous.\n\nMission churches were often of simple design. As mendicants were pushed out of central Mexico and as Jesuits also evangelized Indians in northern Mexico, they built mission churches as part of a larger complex, with living quarters and workshops for resident Indians. Unlike central Mexico, where churches were built in existing indigenous towns, on the frontier where indigenous did not live in such settlements, the mission complex was created. In central america, churches were built once a city was founded where an indigenous town already existed, as in the case of the city of Comayagua in Honduras, which is located in a valley that was densely populated by natives, similar to the case of the Valley of Mexico. The first churches to be built by the Franciscans to evangelize the populations were the Church of San Francisco and the Iglesia de la Merced, and later the cathedral. In the rest of America a similar pattern was followed by the autorities.\n\nThe arrival of the Spaniards in 1571 brought in European colonial architecture to the Philippines. Specifically suited for the hot tropics of the new Far east territory, European architecture was transposed via Acapulco, Mexico into a uniquely Filipino style. The Nipa hut or Bahay Kubo of the Indigenous Filipinos gave way to the \"Bahay Na Bato\" (stone house) and other Filipino houses collectively called \"Bahay Filipino\" (Filipino houses) and became the typical houses of Filipinos in the past.\nThe \"Bahay Filipino\" houses, followed the nipa hut's arrangements such as open ventilation and elevated apartments. The most obvious difference between Filipino houses would be the materials that was used to build them. Bahay na bato has Spanish and Chinese influence. Its most common appearance is like that of stilt Nipa hut that stands on Spanish style stone blocks or bricks as foundation instead only just of wood or bamboo stilts, usually with solid stone foundations or brick lower walls, and overhanging, wooden upper story/stories with balustrades Ventanillas and capiz shell sliding windows, and a Chinese tiled roof or sometimes Nipa roof which are today being replaced by galvanized roof. Today these houses are more commonly called Ancestral houses, due to most ancestral houses in the Philippines are Bahay na bato.\n\nEarthquake Baroque is a style of Baroque architecture found in the Philippines, which suffered destructive earthquakes during the 17th century and 18th century, where large public buildings, such as churches, were rebuilt in a Baroque style. In the Philippines, destruction of earlier churches from frequent earthquakes have made the church proportion lower and wider; side walls were made thicker and heavily buttressed for stability during shaking. The upper structures were made with lighter materials.\n\nBell towers are usually lower and stouter compared to towers in less seismically active regions of the world. Towers have thicker girth in the lower levels, progressively narrowing to the topmost level. In some churches of the Philippines, aside from functioning as watchtowers against pirates, some bell towers are detached from the main church building to avoid damage in case of a falling bell tower due to an earthquake.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239655", "title": "Chances Are", "text": "Chances Are\n\nChances Are may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2239658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239658", "title": "William S. Knudsen", "text": "William S. Knudsen\n\nWilliam Signius Knudsen (March 25, 1879 – April 27, 1948) was a leading automotive industry executive and an American general during World War II. His experience and success as a key senior manager in the operations sides of Ford Motor Company and later General Motors led the Franklin Roosevelt Administration to directly commission him as a lieutenant general in the United States Army to help lead the United States' war materiel production efforts for World War II.\n\nKnudsen was born in Copenhagen, Denmark. His name was originally Signius Wilhelm Poul Knudsen. He immigrated to the United States arriving in New York in February 1900.\n\nKnudsen was working for the John R. Keim Company of Buffalo, New York, a bicycle and auto parts maker, when the Ford Motor Company bought it in 1911 for its steel-stamping experience and tooling. Knudsen worked for Ford from 1911 to 1921, a decade that saw the formative development of the modern assembly line and true mass production. Working first for the Ford Motor Company and later for General Motors from 1921, Knudsen became an expert on mass production and a skilled manager. Knudsen was president of the Chevrolet Division of General Motors from 1924 to 1937, and was president of General Motors from 1937 to 1940.\n\nIn 1940, President Roosevelt, at the recommendation of Bernard Baruch, asked Knudsen to come to Washington to help with war production. Knudsen was appointed as Chairman of the Office of Production Management and member of the National Defense Advisory Commission, for which he received a salary of $1 per year.\n\nIn January 1942, Knudsen received a commission as a lieutenant general in the U.S. Army, the only civilian ever to join the Army at such a high initial rank, and appointed as Director of Production, Office of the Under Secretary of War. In this capacity, he worked as a consultant and a troubleshooter for the War Department.\n\nIn both of these positions, Knudsen used his extensive experience in manufacturing and industry respect to facilitate the largest production job in history. In response to the demand for war materiel, production of machine tools tripled. Total aircraft produced for the US military in 1939 was less than 3,000 planes. By the end of the war, America produced over 300,000 planes, of which the Boeing B-29 Superfortress benefitted greatly from Knudsen's direction. Production of both cargo and Navy ships also increased astronomically. Knudsen's influence not only smoothed government procurement procedures, but also led companies that had never produced military hardware to enter the market. America outproduced its enemies. As Knudsen said, \"We won because we smothered the enemy in an avalanche of production, the like of which he had never seen, nor dreamed possible.\"\n\nHe was appointed Director of the Air Technical Service Command when it was founded in July 1944 at Patterson Field, Ohio. He served in the Army until his resignation on June 1, 1945.\n\nKnudsen was featured on the cover of Time magazine's October 7, 1940 issue. He was a member of Epiphany Lutheran Church (LCMS) in Detroit, and contributed greatly to LCMS projects around the Detroit area, including buildings for Epiphany Lutheran Church, Outer Drive Faith Lutheran Church, and the Evangelical Lutheran Institute for the Deaf. Knudsen's son Semon \"Bunkie\" Knudsen was also a prominent automobile industry executive.\n\nKnudsen was awarded the Vermilye Medal by the Franklin Institute in 1941.\n\nHe was also appointed a Knight of the Order of the Dannebrog by the Kingdom of Denmark in 1930 and was promoted Grand Cross of the Order of the Dannebrog in 1946.\n\nKnudsen was inducted into the Automotive Hall of Fame in 1968.\n\nHis daughter started a scholarship in the name of her parents.\n\nKnudsen Elementary School in Waterford, Michigan is named for him.\n\nKnudsen was awarded the Distinguished Service Medal in 1944 and again in 1945 for his service in the Army during World War II. He also received the American Campaign Medal, and World War Two Victory Medal for his wartime service.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239659", "title": "Wes Helms", "text": "Wes Helms\n\nWesley Ray Helms (born May 12, 1976) is an American former professional baseball third baseman, first baseman, and outfielder. He is currently the manager of the Charlotte Knights, the Triple-A affiliate of the Chicago White Sox. Helms batted and threw right-handed.\n\nHelms was drafted by the Atlanta Braves right out of high school in the 10th round of the amateur draft. He made his Major League debut with the Braves in . \n\nOn December 16, , he was traded to the Milwaukee Brewers in exchange for proven reliever Ray King. Helms played with Milwaukee for 3 seasons. He had a successful first season there hitting 23 home runs and collecting 67 RBI. He suffered a knee injury during a rain delay during a game in San Juan, Puerto Rico against the displaced Montreal Expos. After a stint on the disabled list, Helms struggled to regain his form and his playing time. He became the backup third baseman to Russell Branyan.\n\nOn November 15, , he agreed to a contract in principle with the Philadelphia Phillies to a two-year contract for approximately 5.5 million dollars, with a club option for a third year. Helms was designated for assignment by the Phillies on April 2, , and on April 5 was traded back to his old club, the Florida Marlins, for cash considerations with the Phillies paying all of Helms's 2008 salary and the Marlins covering Helms's 2009 option or buyout.\nIn 13 years of major league service, Helms hit for a .256 batting average with 75 home runs and 374 RBI.\n\nOn August 13, 2011, he was released by Florida. He signed a minor league contract with the Atlanta Braves on August 17. He was assigned to the Triple-A Gwinnett Braves but was released on September 1.\n\nHelms was named the bench coach for the Lehigh Valley IronPigs of the 2018 season. For the 2019 season, Helms was named bench coach of the Double-A Birmingham Barons. He was named manager of the Triple-A Charlotte Knights for the 2020 season. \n\n"}
{"id": "2239660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239660", "title": "Astoria Canyon", "text": "Astoria Canyon\n\nAstoria Canyon is a submarine canyon 10 miles (16 km) offshore from the mouth of the Columbia River.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239669", "title": "Carway, Alberta", "text": "Carway, Alberta\n\nCarway is a hamlet in southern Alberta, Canada within Cardston County. It is a port of entry into the U.S. state of Montana opposite of Port of Piegan. Just on the other side of the border is the Blackfeet Indian Reservation in Glacier County, Montana.\n\nLocated approximately south of Cardston, Carway is the southernmost point of Highway 2, which becomes U.S 89 in Montana. Carway is one of the preferred Canadian ports of entry into the United States for tourists bound for the Going-to-the-Sun Road in Glacier National Park.\n\nThe hamlet was named by William Roberts, the first officer in charge of the station, by combining Cardston and highway.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239671", "title": "Grizzly Bear (dance)", "text": "Grizzly Bear (dance)\n\nThe Grizzly Bear is an early 20th-century dance style. It started in San Francisco, along with the Bunny Hug and Texas Tommy and was also done on the Staten Island ferry boats in the 1900s. It has been said that dancers John Jarrott and Louise Gruenning introduced this dance as well as the Turkey Trot at Ray Jones Café in Chicago, Illinois around 1909. The Grizzly Bear was first introduced to Broadway audiences in the Ziegfeld Follies of 1910 by Fanny Brice.\n\nThe dance was rough and clumsy. During the dance, the dancers would yell out: \"It's a Bear!\" The genuine Grizzly Bear step was a correct imitation of the movements of a dancing bear, moving or dancing to the side. A very heavy step to the side with a decided bending of the upper part of the body from one side to the other, a decidedly ungraceful and undignified movement when performed as a dance.\n\nIt was reported that one of the reasons former President Woodrow Wilson's inaugural ball was cancelled was because of his \"disapproval of such modern dances as the turkey trot, the grizzly bear and the bunny hug\". Not long before this, in 1912, New York placed the dance under a \"social ban\", along with other \"huggly-wiggly dances\", like the Turkey Trot and the Boston Dip. It was also condemned in numerous cities across the US during the same time period, with many considering it to be a \"degenerate dance\".\n\nHowever, a large portion of society accepted the dance, along with other similar dances. The Grizzly Bear dance was featured \"on Broadway, in vaudeville, and at cabaret performances\". In fact, it is believed that the first introduction to the \"general public\" of the dance came about in the original \"Broadway production of \"Over the River\"\" in 1912.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239672", "title": "Porsche 989", "text": "Porsche 989\n\nThe Porsche 989 was a 4-door performance-oriented touring sedan developed by Porsche between 1988 and 1991. This vehicle was never produced, after development was halted in late 1991 and cancelled in January 1992.\nIncreased sales of Porsche's 928 model during the mid-1980s prompted executives to consider adding another large, sporty touring vehicle to the lineup, this time a 4-door that could serve as a more practical but equally powerful and exciting alternative to the 928. Porsche engineer Dr. Ulrich Bez was put in charge of the project and given instructions that the vehicle should be luxurious and comfortable but offer a sporting nature superior to that attained by large saloon cars from Mercedes-Benz and BMW.\n\nBez designed a new front-engine, rear-drive platform with a wheelbase of and power coming from a new 80-degree, water cooled V8 engine with a power output of around . Some discrepancy has arisen as to the engine displacement, which is reported as being between 3.6 and 4.2 litres.\n\nThe prototype made from Bez's technical designs was styled by Harm Lagaay, a design which influenced later models and that held many similarities to the 911, despite the difference in engine placement. Specific design influences to later Porsche models include the control-arm suspension and 959-esque headlamps which would later be used on the 993 as well as the overall shape and tail-light design which were adapted for the 996 generation 911.\n\nAfter Ulrich Bez left Porsche in September 1991, the project lost momentum. The severe slump in 928 sales made executives re-think the viability of the idea, and low overall profits during the 1989 to 1991 model years meant the model would be far more risky for the company to build than had been anticipated during development. In January 1992, development was halted completely. Although Porsche officials initially claimed that the only prototype was destroyed, they now contend that it remains in storage. A rear-view photograph of the prototype (silver color, 17 inch Cup II wheels, unregistered licence plate BB-PW 989) is published in the German classic car magazine \"Motor Klassik\". \"Autoweek\" also reported the existence of the prototype. The prototype would eventually become an exhibit at the Porsche Museum in Stuttgart. \n\nAs of 2019, it is exhibited at the Petersen Auto Museum in Los Angeles. Styling cues found in the next generation Porsche 911 (996) see their origins from this prototype.\n\nThe Porsche Panamera, launched in 2009, is considered to be the spiritual successor to the 989 project.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239673", "title": "Nieuwmarkt", "text": "Nieuwmarkt\n\nNieuwmarkt (Dutch for \"New Market\" or \"Newmarket\") is a square in the centre of Amsterdam, Netherlands. The surrounding area is known as the Lastage neighborhood. It is situated in the borough of Amsterdam-Centrum.\n\nThe square is considered part of Amsterdam's Chinatown, next to the De Wallen (Red Light District). There are over 20 cafés and coffeeshops facing the square. There is a daily market on the square, as well as an organic food market on Saturdays and a market for antiques and books on Sundays in the summer months.\n\nThe Nieuwmarkt is dominated by a building known as the Waag, originally a gate in the Medieval city walls but converted into a weighing house after the walls were demolished in the 17th century. The square was created when the canals around the Waag were filled in 1614, and was used as a marketplace (hence the name). In World War II the square was used by the Nazis as a collection point for Jews who had been rounded up to be sent to the concentration camps.\n\nIn the 1970s many buildings on and around the square were torn down to make way for a planned metro and highway which was to run right through the Nieuwmarkt neighbourhood. This led to heavy rioting, known as the Nieuwmarkt Riots (\"Nieuwmarktrellen\"), in 1975 and, ultimately, abandonment of the highway plans. The metro, however, was constructed, and Nieuwmarkt is now a station on the Amsterdam metro (subway) system.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239682", "title": "Rhode Island Route 112", "text": "Rhode Island Route 112\n\nRoute 112 is a numbered state highway running in the U.S. state of Rhode Island. It connects U.S. Route 1 (US 1) in the town center of Charlestown and Route 138 in the town of Richmond.\n\nRoute 112 begins as South County Trail at US 1 in the center of Charlestown. It heads north overlapped with Route 2 for several miles up to the intersection with Carolina Back Road. The two routes separate here with Route 2 continuing northeast on South County Trail and Route 112 heading northwest on Carolina Back Road. Route 112 soon crosses into the village of Carolina within the town of Richmond. The road name changes to Main Street as the route passes through the village center. In Carolina, Route 112 has a junction with Route 91, which leads to the village of Alton. After leaving the village, Route 112 becomes Richmond Townhouse Road, continuing north for a few more miles until it ends at Route 138 near the Meadow Brook Golf Club.\n\nRoute 112 was one of the state's original routes designated in 1923. At the time it was first designated, Route 112 extended beyond its current northern terminus to end at Route 3 (then Route 1A) in the village of Wyoming using modern Route 138. The route was truncated in the mid-1930s when Route 138 was extended west to the Connecticut state line.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239683", "title": "Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Seoul", "text": "Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Seoul\n\nThe Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Seoul (Latin: \"Archidioecesis Seulensis\", ) is a Metropolitan archdiocese of the Latin Rite of the Roman Catholic Church comprising the metropolitan area of Seoul, South Korea, whose province comprises parts of South Korea (which has two more provinces) and all North Korea, yet depends on the missionary Roman Congregation for the Evangelization of Peoples.\nIts Metropolitan bishop as the \"Archbishop of Seoul\" resides at his Myeongdong Cathedral in Jung-gu, Seoul. The Archbishop of Seoul is also the Apostolic Administrator of the Diocese of Pyongyang in North Korea. As the episcopal see is the oldest one in Korea and that of its capital city, he is often considered to be so called the \"Primate of Korea\", though the official title has not been expressly granted by the Holy See by canonical decree.\n\nThere are 57 Catholic secretly active parishes in North Korea, but due to the current regime in place, no Catholic priests are permitted permanent residency at current time.\n\nAs per 2014, it pastorally served 1,472,815 Catholics (14.5% of 10,143,645 total) on 17,349 km² in 229 parishes and 183 missions with 908 priests (683 diocesan, 225 religious), 2,282 religious (445 brothers, 1,837 sisters) and 266 seminarians.\n\n\nThe diocese has received two official Papal visits from Pope John Paul II in May 1984 and October 1989 and from Pope Francis in August 2014.\n\nThe Metropolitan's ecclesiastical province comprises his own Archdiocese and the following suffragan bishoprics, mostly in South Korea :\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239689", "title": "Metropolitan Police Marine Policing Unit", "text": "Metropolitan Police Marine Policing Unit\n\nThe Marine Policing Unit (MPU), formally known as Thames Division, is a Met Operations branch of London's Metropolitan Police Service. Its forerunner, the Marine Police Force, was England's first recognised preventive police unit.\n\nThe MPU is headquartered on Wapping High Street, in the east of the city, from where it operates a fleet of vessels responsible for policing the River Thames within Greater London.\n\nThames Division was formed in 1839 when the Marine Police Force was absorbed into the Metropolitan Police Force. The original marine force is considered the first preventive police unit in the history of policing in England. It began when a merchant and magistrate, Patrick Colquhoun, teamed up with mariner John Harriott and Jeremy Bentham to persuade shipping companies to finance a police force to prevent the theft of cargo from London's docks. The first death of an officer in the line of duty occurred shortly thereafter, when Gabriel Franks was killed in a skirmish with dock workers protesting against the new force. Impressed by the economic impact of the initiative, the government passed the Marine Police Bill on 28 July 1800, making it one of the first publicly funded police forces, and also the first uniformed police force in the world.\n\nInitially, patrols were conducted in rowing boats, some of which remained in use until 1905. Impetus to change was provided when, on 3 September 1878, the steam collier \"Bywell Castle\" ran into the pleasure steamer in Galleons Reach, resulting in the loss of over 600 lives. The subsequent inquest and inquiry recommended that Thames Division should have steam launches, as rowing galleys had shown themselves to be inadequate for police duty, and the first two were commissioned in the mid-1880s. In 1910 the first motor vessels were introduced.\n\nInitially operating out of Wapping Police Station (since 1798, the current building having been rebuilt in 1907), a second station was built further east at Blackwall. Using land freed up from the General Steam Navigation Company's cattle wharf at Coldharbour, a three-storey building comprising cells, accommodation and a boat-launch was constructed in 1893. Due to the decline of the docks at Canary Wharf in the late 20th century, the Blackwall River Police Station was closed in the 1970s and converted to residential properties in 1982. In November 1978, Thames Division became a specialist unit under the direct command of Assistant Commissioner \"A\".\n\nWhen they were initially formed in 1839, Thames Division had three different ranks of Inspector and this was due to legislation involving the boarding of vessels on the Thames. The ranks originally date back to the old Thames River Police and were primarily due to the special powers invested to Inspectors on the river.\n\nInitially Thames Division had no Sergeants or Station Sergeants in their ranks, but instead inherited from the old River Police the ranks of 3rd, 2nd and 1st Inspector which were unique to the Division. 3rd Inspectors were paid as sergeants and were equivalent to sergeants for the rest of the force. 2nd Inspectors were of Station Police Sergeant rank and paid as such, while a 1st Inspector ranked as substantial Inspector. However, these ranks were discontinued in 1903 and Thames Division officers were then ranked the same as the rest of the Metropolitan Police, although for many years after 1903 Thames Division officers are still ranked on their service sheets using these old Inspector ranks.\n\nOn 20 August 1989 the \"Marchioness\" disaster occurred when an aggregate dredger, the \"Bowbelle\", collided with a passenger vessel, the \"Marchioness\", near Cannon Street Railway Bridge. Four police patrol boats assisted in the rescue of 87 people. Fifty-one passengers died, though, and following subsequent inquiries the government asked the Maritime and Coastguard Agency, the Port of London Authority and the Royal National Lifeboat Institution to work together to set up a dedicated search and rescue service for the tidal River Thames. Consequently, on 2 January 2002, the RNLI set up four lifeboat stations at Gravesend, Tower Pier, Chiswick Pier and Teddington, taking over the role of primary search and rescue service on the river from Thames Division.\n\nIn 2001, Thames Division was renamed the Marine Support Unit, and again in 2008 as the Marine Policing Unit.\n\nToday the MPU is responsible for waterborne policing of the 47 miles of the Thames between Hampton Court in the west and Dartford Creek in the east. Above Hampton Court, Surrey Police have responsibility for policing but a launch is supplied by the Environment Agency. Below Dartford Creek, responsibility lies with both Essex Police and Kent Police, who have combined forces and formed a joint marine unit, with Kent based at Sheerness and Essex based at Burnham-on-Crouch.\n\nBased at a police station on Wapping High Street and with 22 vessels at its disposal, the MPU also provides support to the rest of the Metropolitan Police and to the City of London Police when dealing with incidents in or around any waterway in London. A specialist underwater and confined-spaces search team carries out searches throughout the Metropolitan Police District. The unit also has 24 officers who are trained in rope access techniques and trained to carry out searches and counter demonstrator operations at height.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239699", "title": "Have a Ball", "text": "Have a Ball\n\nHave a Ball is the first studio album by Me First and the Gimme Gimmes, released in 1997 on the Fat Wreck Chords independent record label. The album is made up entirely of \"Hits of the '60s and '70s\", with the exception of Billy Joel's \"Uptown Girl\", originally released in 1983.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239702", "title": "Treaty of Washington (1826)", "text": "Treaty of Washington (1826)\n\nThe 1826 Treaty of Washington was a settlement between the United States government and the Creek National Council of Native Americans, led by their spokesman Opothleyahola. The Creeks ceded much of their land in the State of Georgia to the Federal government.\n\nThe Creeks were a loose confederation of tribes with diverse customs and histories. Over several decades, they had ceded small portions of their vast lands to the Federal government in a variety of treaties and agreements. They had been allies with the British in the War of 1812. The 1814 Treaty of Fort Jackson which ended the Creek War stipulated that the Creeks would cede 23 million acres (93,000 km²) of prime land to the Southern states, leaving the Creeks a tract around the Chattahoochee River. The Creek Confederacy enacted a law that made further land cessions a capital offense. However, by mid-1820s, both political parties in Georgia favored the total removal of the Indians to the west. Democratic Governor George Troup aggressively moved to resolve the situation.\n\nThe Lower Creek Council, a small faction led by Troup's first cousin, William McIntosh, signed the Treaty of Indian Springs on February 13, 1825, ceding a large amount of Creek territory to the United States. However, the other chiefs and warriors (particularly the Upper Creeks) protested this agreement, stating that the signatories did not have the authority to speak for the entire Creek Nation. They executed McIntosh on May 31 for violating their law banning land cessions. \n\nNew President John Quincy Adams did not consider the treaty to be valid, and pressured Troup to stop white incursions into Indian lands. Creek leaders were summoned to Washington, D.C. to negotiate a peaceful agreement. A new treaty was negotiated between the government and a widespread gathering of various Creek leaders, unified under their spokesman, Opothleyahola. It voided the Treaty of Indian Springs and ceded to the United States all the land belonging to the Creeks on the east side of the Chattahoochee River for a one-time payment of $217,600 and a yearly annuity of $20,000. The treaty stipulated that the signers of the Treaty of Indian Springs would have the same privileges as those who signed the new treaty, and made funding allowances for the Lower Creeks under the late William McIntosh to send a 5-person deputation to explore lands west of the Mississippi River for potential resettlement. The government would then fund the relocation, as well as providing for a full year's subsistence, a full-time Federal Indian Agent, interpreter, blacksmith and wheelwright. The treaty provided financial remuneration for the damages caused by the infighting between McIntosh's Lower Creeks and the rest of the Creek Nation. The Creeks legally retained possession of all their lands until January 1, 1827, after which they would retain a small portion on the Alabama-Georgia border.\n\nThe treaty was signed on January 24, 1826. A supplementary article signed on March 31, 1826, corrected some errors and stipulated the exact delineation of the boundary between Georgia and the Creek reserve. The Federal government agreed to pay the Creeks $30,000 () for yet another piece of land (what became Carroll County).\n\nNot pleased with the new treaty and under intense pressure from expansionists, Governor Troup ordered the land surveyed for a lottery, including the piece that was to remain in Creek hands. The president intervened with Federal troops, but Troup called out the state militia, and Adams, fearful of a civil war, conceded. The government allowed Troup to quickly renegotiate the agreement and seize all remaining Creek lands in the state. By 1827, the Creeks were gone from Georgia. Within eight years, most of them would be relocated from Alabama to the designated Indian Territory (modern Oklahoma).\n\n"}
{"id": "2239705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239705", "title": "Gammaretrovirus", "text": "Gammaretrovirus\n\nGammaretrovirus is a genus in the retroviridae family. Example species are the murine leukemia virus and the feline leukemia virus. They cause various sarcomas, leukemias and immune deficiencies in mammals, reptiles and birds.\n\nMany endogenous retroviruses, closely related to exogenous gammaretroviruses, are present in the DNA of mammals (including humans), birds, reptiles and amphibians. Many also share a conserved RNA structural element called a core encapsidation signal.\n\nThe avian reticuloendotheliosis viruses are not strictly avian viruses—it appears that reticuloendotheliosis viruses are mammalian viruses that were accidentally introduced into birds in the 1930s during research on malaria.\n\nAs a potential vector for gene therapy, gammaretroviruses have some advantages over HIV as a lentiviral vector. Specifically, the gammaretroviral packaging system does not require the incorporation of any sequences overlapping with coding sequences of gag, pol, or accessory genes.\n\nGammaretroviruses have a wide range of implications for animals. They have been linked with several diseases including cancer, specifically leukemias and lymphomas, various neurological diseases, and some immunodeficiencies in many different species. Gammaretroviruses are similar to other retroviruses and reverse transcribe a positive single strand RNA into double stranded DNA. The double stranded DNA is highly stable and easily integrated into a host genome. A few examples of the virus are Moloney murine leukemia virus, xenotropic MuLB-related virus, feline leukemia virus, and feline sarcoma virus.\n\nGammaretroviruses are very popular retroviral vectors in laboratory studies. These vectors are crucial for gene therapy and gene transfer. The reason that they are so useful is because their genomes are very simple and easy to use. Retroviruses have the ability to integrate into host cell genomes very well, which allows for the long term expression of their genome. One specific gammaretrovirus that is commonly used as a retroviral vector is the Moloney murine leukemia virus.\n\nA specific gammaretrovirus called xenotropic murine leukemia virus-related virus (XMRV) has been found to infect prostate cancer tissue in laboratories. XMRV is a recombinant virus created in a laboratory accident in the mid-1990s. Although it can infect human tissue, no known disease is associated with the infection and it is unlikely to exist outside laboratories. Alleged discovery of XMRV in blood cells of patients with chronic fatigue syndrome in 2009 caused a controversy and eventual retraction. There were over 50 human cancer cell lines that were claimed to be linked to murine leukemia virus-related virus or murine leukemia virus. There have also been claimed discoveries of murine gammeretroviruses in lung cancer cell lines. While it was unclear what role these viruses have in the cancer development, it was believed that they are most prevalent during the tumor developing stage of the cancer by inhibiting tumor suppressing genes.\n\nGammaretrovirus is a part of the retroviridae family. Gammaretroviruses are considered zoonotic viruses because they are found in many different mammalian species, such as mice, cats, pigs, primates, cows, and birds. However, bats are the primary reservoir for many gammaretroviruses. Bats can have a prolonged exposure to a variety of pathogens without showing any warning signs, which leads to the debated belief that bats have the ability to develop immunity to viruses that may harm other species. So, it is possible for bats to harbor not only one, but several types of gammaretroviruses. This claim is supported by a sequencing transcriptome profiling technique, and a polymerase chain reaction. Researchers also looked into several different types of bat species to solidify the claim that bats are the main reservoir for gammaretroviruses. The gammaretroviruses can be spread horizontally, animal to animal, or vertically from parent to offspring.\n\nAnother gammaretrovirus reservoir was discovered in the genome of the bottlenose dolphin. This gammaretrovirus called Tursiops truncates endogenous retrovirus, was thought to be from extant mammalian endogenous gammretroviruses. The Tursiops truncates endogenous retrovirus original invasion dates back to approximately 10–19 million years ago, and was identified in killer whale endogenous gammaretrovirus which invaded over 3 million years ago. In 2009, another endogenous gammretroviruses were detected in a species of killer whale, as well as nine other cetacean genomes. So gammaretrovirus genomes are present in both aquatic and terrestrial mammal species.\n\nGammaretrovirus is a spherical, enveloped virion ranging from 80–100 nm in diameter. It contains a nucleocapsid, reverse-transcriptase, integrase, capsid, protease, envelope and surface units. The nucleocapsid is a nucleic acid protein assembly within the virus particle, it is a substructure of the virion. Reverse-transcriptase is the enzyme responsible for the transformation of RNA to DNA during the virion replication cycle. Integrase works with reverse transcriptase to convert RNA to DNA. The capsid is a protein shell that surrounds the genome of a virus particle, its main functions are to protect and deliver the genome to the host cell. The viral envelope is the membrane that surround the viral capsid, it is a host cell derived lipid bilayer.\n\nThe genome of the gammaretrovirus is a single-stranded RNA (+) genome that is approximately 8.3 kb in size. It has a 5’ cap with a 3’ poly-A tail, and it contains two long terminal repeater regions at both the 5’ and 3’ ends. These long terminal repeat regions have the U5, R, and U3 regions as well as a polypurine tract at the 3’ end and a primer binding site at the 5’ end. The typical gammretrovirus genome contains the gag gene, pol gene, and an env gene.\n\nThe gammaretrovirus will act as a parasite to use cellular host factors to deliver genome into a host's cell nucleus, where they will use the cell's machinery to replicate the viral genome and continue the spread throughout the host organism. Because it is a single-stranded RNA(+) with a DNA intermediate genome, it has the ability to copy it's viral RNA genome directly into mRNA. Against the central dogma of biology, it also reversely transcribes its RNA genome into DNA.\n\nVirion attach the host cell receptors via the SU glycoprotein, then the TM glycoprotein assists with fusion with the cell membrane. The virus will then begin uncoating, and a linear double-stranded DNA molecule is formed from the single-stranded RNA(+) genome via reverse transcription. The enzyme responsible for reverse transcription is reverse transcriptase. The host nuclear membrane is disassembled during mitosis and the viral double-stranded DNA is able to enter the host nucleus. Viral double-stranded DNA is then integrated into the host cell genome via viral integrase, an enzyme that allows for viral DNA integration into host DNA. The virus is now referred to as a provirus, which means the gammaretrovirus DNA has integrated into the host cell genome and is now the template for the formation of viral mRNA and genomic RNA. Double-stranded DNA is transcribed by Pol II and will produce both spliced and unspliced RNA strands, these spliced RNA strands will leave the host cell nucleus. The unspliced viral RNA translation produces env, gag, and gag-pol polyproteins. The Env becomes a polypeptide precursor and will cleave to produce a receptor binding surface. Next the virion is assembled in the host cell membrane, and the viral RNA genome is packaged. The virions bud from the plasma membrane and release into the host. After virions release from host cells the process is repeated on the next cell the active viral particle comes across.\n\nGammaretrovirus outbreaks are common in koalas. In fact, they have been linked to Koala Immune Deficiency Syndrome (KIDS), which is similar to human immunodeficiency syndrome. Koala Immune Deficiency Syndrome affects the immune system of various populations of koala bears, leaving them more prone to becoming infected with diseases or diagnosed with cancer. Similar to HIV, Koala Immune Deficiency Syndrome can be passed on to offspring as well as be transmitted to other koalas or species on animals. The virus is common in captive koalas. In fact, in a population of captive koalas in Queensland 80% of the deaths are connected with gammaretroviruses. This colony is on high alert that their populations of koalas could be extinct in the near future, researchers are concerned that an epidemic may break out in Queensland.\n\nVaccines have been discovered and provided for various gammaretroviruses. Namibia hosts the largest population of wild cheetahs in the world, making it a vital population for understanding the biology and natural behaviour of this species. In June 2002, researchers began testing animals for the presence of feline leukemia virus, since the concern arose that viral infection could cause a major health problem in Namibia's cheetah population. Through this testing, antibodies were collected to develop a feline leukemia virus vaccine. This vaccine has proven to be successful in the Namibian cheetahs, as 86% of the vaccinated cheetahs tested positive for the feline leukemia virus antibodies. With such a high vaccinated percentage, the cheetahs are in a condition where there's more than enough of the population that is vaccinated to prevent an outbreak of a gammaretrovius such as feline leukemia virus.\n\nAlong with vaccinations, host restriction of gammaretroviruses and other types of retroviruses are common among animals. Many hosts have a gene that blocks the replication cycle of retroviruses, including gammaretrovirus. This gene was discovered using a non virulent protein of murine leukemia virus. This protein will block replication of some murine leukemia virus strains following reverse transcription. The restriction of the virus depends on the interaction of the protein and the invading virus.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239707", "title": "New Trolls", "text": "New Trolls\n\nNew Trolls are an Italian progressive rock band, known for their fusion of rock and classical music. Their history is filled with line-up changes, band name changes and struggles between band members.\n\nThe band was founded around the mid-1960s, when musicians Vittorio De Scalzi, Nico Di Palo, Mauro Chiarugi, Giorgio D'Adamo and Gianni Belleno decided to form a band called New Trolls, after the name of the previous band of one of them, The Trolls.\n\nAfter a first series of concerts in local clubs, New Trolls gained popularity to the point they were chosen as supporting act for the Rolling Stones, on their Italian tour dates. Soon after, they released their debut single, \"Sensazioni\" (1967), the first of a very long series of chart hitting songs. The band was one of the best live acts in Italy at the time, and Hendrix-inspired guitarist Nico Di Palo was one of the first Italian guitar heroes.\n\nTheir first full-length album, \"Senza orario Senza bandiera\", came in 1968 with lyrics written for it by famed singer-songwriter Fabrizio de André. This release was very successful at the time. A second album, simply titled \"New Trolls\", followed two years later (1970) as a compilation of their singles. By the end of the same year New Trolls would have faced their first line-up change, when Mauro Chiarugi left the band. The other members managed to go on as a quartet.\n\nIn 1971 they released the album which was to become their trademark: \"Concerto grosso per i New Trolls\". The album was a fantastic example of early symphonic rock experimentation, with classical music arrangements written by composer Luis Enriquez Bacalov. As the first effort in Italy to merge rock music with classical treatments, this album is still considered one of the most important Italian progressive rock releases ever.\n\nThe second line-up change came by 1972, when bassist Giorgio D'Adamo was replaced by the Italo-Canadian Frank Laugelli. With the new line-up the band released \"Searching for a land\", a double album with some live tracks and mostly sung in English. This new record was a disjointed album and not a great success, as most of the English-sung albums by Italian artists. That same year brought another New Trolls album: \"Ut\", introducing a heavier sound similar to hard rock. Even though the release was successful, creative differences emerged and the band broke into two parts, with Di Palo and De Scalzi going in two different ways. A legal struggle began for the use of the band name ensued.\n\nVittorio De Scalzi reunited with Giorgio D'Adamo, effectively forming another band called New Trolls. The De Scalzi incarnation of the band released a single \"Una notte sul Monte Calvo\", a popular rendition of Mussorgsky's Night on Bald Mountain, as New Trolls. A legal battle followed and the next album was released with the title \"N.T. Atomic System\" as a result, keeping the style of New Trolls prior to \"Ut\". Despite some accounts on the web De Scalzi never intended to call the band New Trolls Atomic System. An Italian court ruled in De Scalzi's favor and Di Palo and the other three band members released their next album with a question mark replacing the name of the band. The quartet was later dubbed Ibis, a band oriented towards hard rock.\n\nThe De Scalzi led lineup, often mistakenly referred to as New Trolls Atomic System, released their first album in 1973 with arrangements similar to the ones used previously in \"Concerto grosso per i New Trolls\". In 1973 De Scalzi founded Magma Records which released the album. De Scalzi himself played the flute, keyboards and guitar in this work. The second album, \"Tempi dispari\", was a live instrumental jazz-rock fusion album, completely different from the previous New Trolls sound. With the court case settled De Scalzi was again able to use the name New Trolls, despite this \"Tempi dispari\" was rather unsuccessful.\n\nThe disappointment of \"Tempi dispari\" triggered the breakup of the De Scalzi led incarnation of New Trolls. Amazingly, De Scalzi rejoined his old friend/rival Di Palo and drummer Belleno for a new chapter in New Trolls' history. Bassist D'Adamo remained and singer/guitarist Ricky Belloni was hired to complete the line-up. In 1975 the band released a live album on Magma simply titled \"N.T. L.I.V.E.\" which contained songs prior-breakup and some excerpts from the forthcoming studio album \"Concerto grosso no. 2\", which was released in 1976. \"Concerto grosso no. 2\" revisited the style of their best selling album, but this time the critics considered it to be \"pale\" and too \"pop-vein\". Magma Records eventually released both \"Concerto grosso\" albums in a single package.\n\n1978 brought a new member to the band, keyboardist Giorgio Usai. Then the band slowly begun to abandon its progressive style in favour to a mainstream pop rock sound that gave them many more hits (\"Quella carezza della sera\" and \"Aldebaran\" among them). The New Trolls kept in this line until the early 1990s.\n\nFrom then on, the name New Trolls has appeared sporadically in the music scene. Along the 1990s Vittorio De Scalzi recruited several musicians to make tours playing old New Trolls songs. Some album remakes and best-hits collections have appeared too. In 1999 Di Palo, Belloni and Belleno tried to regroup the band (again) but came into legal conflict with De Scalzi.\n\nIn 2001 a two-disc set was released credited to De Scalzi: \"La storia dei New Trolls\". Recorded live, the first disc includes reworkings of old tracks, while the second is a complete rendition of \"Concerto grosso per i New Trolls\" with full orchestra.\n\nBy 2002 the band led by De Scalzi kept touring with \"La storia dei New Trolls\" repertoire. Di Palo and former band members regrouped as Il Mito New Trolls, only touring and performing old songs, not releasing any record yet.\n\n2007 saw what is currently the latest reunion of De Scalzi and Di Palo. Reuniting elements from both members' bands, the reformed New Trolls released \"Concerto grosso: the seven seasons\", a continuation of their classical/rock blending \"Concerto grosso\" series. For this issue, the band returned to English lyrics, written by Shel Shapiro. The record was produced and released by the band's own label, Aereostella.\n\n\nLater that year, New Trolls were disbanded because of artistic divergences between the members. \nVittorio De Scalzi continued with the New Trolls Atomic System, Nico Di Palo formed two different bands, Tritons and Ibis, while Gianni Belleno recorded some singles under the pseudonym Johnny Dei Tritons and continued to play live with a band named Il Cuore Dei New Trolls. The releases of the subsequent years are:\n\n\nFirst reunion. The reformed New Trolls released:\n\n\nThere was another division. The members continued as two separate bands (La Storia Dei New Trolls and Il Mito New Trolls):\n\n\nSecond reunion (but Il Mito New Trolls was continued by Ricky Belloni). Since then the band has released:\n\n\nThe band is divided two again. (La Leggenda New Trolls and UT(Uno Tempore) New Trolls):\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239710", "title": "Margerine Eclipse", "text": "Margerine Eclipse\n\nMargerine Eclipse is the eighth studio album by English-French avant-pop band Stereolab. It was released on 27 January 2004 in the United States by Elektra Records and on 2 February 2004 in the United Kingdom by Duophonic Records. The album is in large part a eulogy to former band member Mary Hansen, who died in 2002.\n\nBy June 2004, the album had sold over 40,000 copies in United States.\n\n\"Margerine Eclipse\" was mixed with full stereo separation (or as the band called it, \"dual mono\"), meaning that each instrumental or vocal part is hard-panned to appear in either the left or right channel only, much like early stereo albums by The Beatles. This technique was also used on its preceding EP \"Instant 0 in the Universe\".\n\n\"Margerine Eclipse\" was the first Stereolab album to be recorded following the death of band member Mary Hansen in a cycling accident in December 2002. The lyrics of the song \"Feel and Triple\" pay tribute to Hansen. Stereolab members Tim Gane and Lætitia Sadier ended their romantic relationship shortly before work commenced on the album, and their breakup is alluded to in the song \"Hillbilly Motobike\".\n\nCredits for \"Margerine Eclipse\" adapted from album liner notes.\n\nStereolab\nAdditional musicians\n\nProduction\n\nManagement\n"}
{"id": "2239715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239715", "title": "Bushcraft", "text": "Bushcraft\n\nBushcraft is wilderness survival skills. It is about thriving in the natural environment, and the acquisition of the skills and knowledge to do so. Bushcraft skills include firecraft, tracking, hunting, fishing, shelter-building, navigation by natural means, the use of tools such as knives and axes, foraging, water sourcing, hand-carving wood, container construction from natural materials, and rope and twine-making, among others.\n\nThe term was popularized in the Southern Hemisphere by Les Hiddins (the Bush Tucker Man) as well as in the Northern Hemisphere by Mors Kochanski and more recently gained considerable currency in the United Kingdom due to the popularity of Ray Mears and his bushcraft and survival television programs. It is also becoming popular in urban areas where the average person is separated from nature, as a way to get back in tune with their rural roots. The origin of the phrase \"bushcraft\" comes from skills used in the bush country of Australia. Often the phrases \"wilderness skills\" or \"woodcraft\" are used as they describe skills used all over the world.\n\nThe \"Oxford English Dictionary\" definition of bushcraft is \"skill in matters pertaining to life in the bush\".\n\nThe word has been used in its current sense in Australia and South Africa at least as far back as the 1800s. Bush in this sense is probably a direct adoption of the Dutch 'bosch', (now 'bos') originally used in Dutch colonies for woodland and country covered with natural wood, but extended to usage in British colonies, applied to the uncleared or un-farmed districts, still in a state of nature. Later this was used by extension for the country as opposed to the town. In Southern Africa, we get Bushman from the Dutch 'boschjesman' applied by the Dutch colonists to the natives living in the bush. In North America, where there was also considerable colonisation by the Dutch, you have the word 'bushwacker' which is close to the Dutch 'bosch-wachter' (now 'boswachter') meaning 'forest-keeper' or 'forest ranger'.\n\nHistorically, the term has been spotted in the following books (amongst others):\n\n\nThe word bushcraft was trademarked by Bushcraft USA LLC. The application was submitted July 30, 2012 and issued November 12, 2013. This trademark is a service mark, for the general use of the word bushcraft and is not limited to electronic forms of communication or commerce. However, the validity of this TM is in question (nullified) since the Mark was used in commerce, by Mors Kochanski in 1981, 31 years prior and again in 1988, 24 years prior to Bushcraft USA making claim to the Mark.\n\nThe Irish-born Australian writer Richard Graves titled his outdoor manuals \"The 10 bushcraft books\".\n\nCanadian wilderness instructor Mors Kochanski published the \"Northern Bushcraft\" book in 1981 and an expanded edition of the book in 1988. He has stated on numerous occasions that book title was an explicit reference to Graves' work.\n\nThe term has enjoyed a recent popularity largely thanks to Ray Mears, Cody Lundin, Les Hiddins, Les Stroud, Dave Canterbury and Mors Kochanski and their television programs.\n\nTed Kaczynski was a notable advocate of wilderness survival and self-sufficiency.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239718", "title": "Are a Drag", "text": "Are a Drag\n\nAre a Drag is the second album by Me First and the Gimme Gimmes, released in 1999 on the Fat Wreck Chords independent record label.\n\nThe album is made up mainly of show tunes. The album's title alludes to the fact that most of the songs on the album feature vocalist Spike Slawson singing songs that were originally performed by female characters in their original stage shows/movies (with the exception of the Phantom's part in \"Phantom of the Opera\", \"Science Fiction/Double Feature\" which was sung by a female traditionally, but more popularly by Richard O'Brien in \"The Rocky Horror Picture Show\", and \"Rainbow Connection\").\n\nThe album's cover features the members of the band dressed up, in drag, as five characters from the musicals represented in song: a member of \"A Chorus Line\" (\"What I Did For Love\"), Annie Mudge from \"Annie\" (\"Tomorrow\"), Dorothy Gale from \"The Wizard of Oz\" (\"Over the Rainbow\"), Sandy Dumbrowski from \"Grease\" (\"It's Raining on Prom Night\"), and Dr. Frank-N-Furter from \"The Rocky Horror Show\" (\"Science Fiction/Double Feature\").\n\nLike many other Gimme Gimmes albums, \"Are a Drag\" contains many elements of mash-up - more specifically, musical allusions to punk or power-pop songs in their covers. The intro to the song \"My Favorite Things\" quotes \"Generator\", by Bad Religion, and at the end of \"Tomorrow\", Fat Mike can be heard singing \"Mommy's alright, daddy's alright, they just seem a little weird\" - a lyric from \"Surrender\" by Cheap Trick.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239721", "title": "Dune II", "text": "Dune II\n\nDune II: The Building of a Dynasty (titled Dune II: Battle for Arrakis in Europe and Dune: The Battle for Arrakis for the North American Mega Drive/Genesis port respectively) is a real-time strategy \"Dune\" video game developed by Westwood Studios and released by Virgin Games in December 1992. It is based upon David Lynch's 1984 movie \"Dune\", an adaptation of Frank Herbert's science fiction novel of the same name.\n\nWhile not necessarily the first real-time strategy (RTS) video game, \"Dune II\" established the format that would be followed for years to come. As such, \"Dune II\" is the archetypal \"real-time strategy\" game. Striking a balance between complexity and innovation, it was a huge success and laid the foundation for \"Command & Conquer\", \"Warcraft\", and many other RTS games that followed.\n\nEmperor Frederick IV of House Corrino is desperate for the harvesting of the valuable drug melange (also known as \"the spice\"), found only on the planet Arrakis, to pay off all of his debt incurred on internecine wars with family members. To achieve this, he now offers the sole governorship of Arrakis to whichever of the three Houses (Atreides, Harkonnen, and the non-canon Ordos) delivers the most spice for him. War begins as deputations from all three Houses arrive on Arrakis.\n\nThe player is a military commander from a House of their choice. In the first few missions the objectives are to establish successfully a base on an unoccupied territory of Arrakis, to harvest spice, and to defeat intruders. Later, when the three Houses divide Arrakis among them, the player has to assault and capture enemy territories. When the player dominates Arrakis on the world map, the two other enemy factions ally against their common enemy. The ultimate final showdown is the battle between the player's House against three enemy sides, among them Frederick's forces the Sardaukar (an unplayable elite force whose heavy infantry are particularly powerful). The introductory, mission briefing and endgame cutscenes are different for each House, in keeping with their very disparate world views. The weaponry and units also vary from house to house.\n\nThe player takes the role of the commander of one of the three interplanetary houses, the Atreides, the Harkonnen or the Ordos, with the objective of wresting control of Arrakis from the other two houses. House Ordos is not featured in the Dune novels and is mentioned only in the non-canon \"Dune Encyclopedia\". The basic strategy in the game is to harvest spice from the treacherous sand dunes using a harvester vehicle, convert the spice into credits via a refinery and to build military units with these acquired credits in order to fend off and destroy the enemy.\n\nThe game map initially starts with a fog of war covering all area which is not covered by the player's units range of view. As the units explore the map, the darkness is removed. Unlike later games such as \"\", the fog of war is lifted forever with initial exploration, it does not become dark once more when units leave the area.\n\nIn addition to enemy incursions, there are other dangers; like the marauding gigantic sandworm, capable of swallowing vehicles and infantry whole but blocked by rocky terrain. The player can only build on rocky terrain, but must build concrete foundations before to avoid deterioration of the structures due to the harsh weather conditions although in general, structures will gradually decay over time regardless of the presence of those concrete slabs due to the aforementioned weather conditions, though the concrete saves repair costs in the long run. Spice fields are indicated by orange coloration on the sand, darker orange indicating high concentration. Some spice may be concealed as bumps on the terrain (a \"spice bloom\") that become spice fields when they are shot at, or when a unit runs over them (the unit is destroyed in the ensuing \"spice blow\").\n\nThe player is presented a map of the planet \"Arrakis\" before most missions, where they can choose the next territory to play in among two or three. This affects primarily the enemy house fought in the next mission, as all missions except the first two require the complete destruction of the enemy. Nine territories must be fought, irrespective of house, to reach the endgame.\n\nSome key elements that first appeared in \"Dune II\" and later appear in many other RTS games include:\n\nCompleting higher missions gives authorization to use improved technology and higher-order weaponry unique to each House, ensuring varied game play. For example, House Harkonnen may be able to construct their \"Devastator\" tanks with heavy armor and ordnance but cannot build the similarly impressive Atreides \"Sonic Tank\". The Ordos have access to the \"Deviator\" - a specialized tank firing a nerve gas that switches the allegiance of targeted units to Ordos for a limited period of time. The three Houses also are restricted in their production capabilities—House Ordos cannot build Atreides-style trikes, instead making the faster \"Raider\" trikes, while House Harkonnen constructs heavier but more expensive quad bikes.\n\nA player can gain access to other Houses' special units by capturing an enemy Factory and manufacturing the desired units at the captured Factory (House Atreides' Heavy Vehicle Factory for \"Sonic Tank\", House Ordos' Light Vehicle Factory for \"Raider\" trikes, House Ordos' Heavy Vehicle Factory for \"Deviator\" tanks, or House Harkonnen's Heavy Vehicle Factory for \"Devastator\" tanks). Note that a \"Deviator\" not owned by House Ordos still switches control of targeted units to House Ordos, and not to the side that owns the \"Deviator\". Apparently Westwood was aware of this feature, since capturing a Sardaukar Heavy Vehicle Factory allows the player to build both the \"Sonic Tank\" and Devastator, but not the Ordos \"Deviator\".\n\nBuildings may only be built in rocky zones and connected to another existing building. To protect them from constant wear, the player must first place concrete slabs in the construction areas. Production buildings can be upgraded at a cost several times, allowing the production of more advanced units or buildings.\n\nThe final prize for the commander is the building of the House Palace from where superweapons may be unleashed on opponents in the final closing chapters of the game. The House Harkonnen superweapon is a long-range powerful but inaccurate finger of missiles called the \"Death Hand\", whereas House Atreides may call upon the local \"Fremen\" infantry warriors, over which the player has no control, to engage enemy targets. House Ordos may unleash a fast-moving \"Saboteur\" whose main purpose is the destruction of buildings.\n\nThe AI of \"Dune II\" was one of the first used in RTS games, and while better than that of \"Herzog Zwei\", it has various drawbacks. Examples include only attacking the side of the player's base facing its own, general inability to perform flanking maneuvers, and not rebuilding defenses. Recent research into the game's engine by fans revealed that the AI is in fact capable of more advanced strategy, but that a large part of these capabilities is unused due to consistently repeated errors in all of the game's mission scripts.\n\nAccording to Virgin Interactive vice president Stephen Clarke-Willson in 1998, the development of \"Dune II\" began when Virgin Interactive planned to cancel the production of Cryo Interactive's adventure game \"Dune\", after which he was given the task of figuring out what to do with the \"Dune\" license. After reading the original \"Dune\" novel, he decided that \"from a gaming point-of-view the real stress was the battle to control the spice,\" so a resource-based strategy video game would be a good idea. It was around this time that employee Graeme Devine (who later founded Trilobyte) introduced to everyone at the Virgin office a real-time strategy game on the Sega Genesis / Mega Drive console called \"Herzog Zwei\" (1989). Clarke-Willson described it as a game where the player \"kept clicking on stuff and then zooming off to another part of the screen. It was very hard to keep track of what was going on as an observer. Still, everyone liked it, it had fast action, and it was a strategy game.\" Virgin staff, including Clarke-Willson and Seth Mendelsohn (who later worked on the \"Ultima\" series), then went to Westwood Studios to talk about making a \"Dune\" game. According to Clarke-Willson, \"Westwood agreed to make a resource strategy game based on \"Dune\", and agreed to look at \"Herzog Zwei\" for design ideas.\" It later turned out that Cryo's game of the same name was not cancelled, and Westwood's real-time strategy game was called \"Dune II\" as a result.\n\nWestwood Studios co-founder and \"Dune II\" producer Brett Sperry said in 2008 that conceptualization for the game began when Virgin president Martin Alper approached him with the offer of using their \"Dune\" license to produce a game, with the understanding that Cryo's \"Dune\" had been cancelled. In terms of video game design, Sperry stated, \"The inspiration for \"Dune II\" was partly from \"Populous\", partly from my work on \"Eye Of The Beholder\" and the final and perhaps most crucial part came from an argument I once had with Chuck Kroegel, then vice president of Strategic Simulations Inc ... The crux of my argument with Chuck was that wargames sucked because of a lack of innovation and poor design. Chuck felt the category was in a long, slow decline, because the players were moving to more exciting genres ... I felt that the genre had a lot of potential – the surface was barely scratched as far as I as [sic] concerned, especially from a design standpoint. So I took it as a personal challenge and figured how to harness realtime dynamics with great game controls into a fast-paced wargame.\" He also stated that, while \"\"Herzog Zwei\" was a lot of fun,\" the \"other inspiration for \"Dune II\" was the Mac software interface,\" referring to the \"design/interface dynamics of mouse clicking and selecting desktop items\" which got him thinking, \"Why not allow the same inside the game environment? Why not a context-sensitive playfield? To hell with all these hot keys, to hell with keyboard as the primary means of manipulating the game!\" During production, he found out that Cryo rushed to finish their game first, leading to Virgin publishing their game as \"Dune\" and Westwood's game as \"Dune II\", despite Sperry protesting against this decision. Louis Castle said in 1998 that the game's influence on the real-time strategy genre was unplanned, and that the team's goal was simply to \"to include all of the excitement and intensity of a war game, but with action-packed gameplay.\"\n\nOther influences cited by Joseph Bostic (also known as Joe Bostic), the co-designer and lead programmer, and Mike Legg, one of the game's programmers, include the turn-based strategy games \"Military Madness\" (1989) and \"Civilization\" (1991), along with \"Herzog Zwei\". According to Bostic, a \"benefit over \"Herzog Zwei\" is that we had the advantage of a mouse and keyboard. This greatly facilitated precise player control, which enabled the player to give orders to individual units. The mouse, and the direct control it allowed, was critical in making the RTS genre possible.\"\n\nOriginally released for DOS in 1992, \"Dune II\" was one of the first PC games to support the recently introduced General MIDI standard. The game audio was programmed with the middleware Miles audio library which handled the dynamic conversion of the game's MIDI musical score, originally composed on the Roland MT-32, to the selected soundcard. At initial release, the game's setup utility lacked the means to support separate output devices for the musical score and speech/sound-effects. This limitation was frustrating to owners of high-quality MIDI synthesisers (such as the Roland Sound Canvas), because users could not play the game with both digital sound effects (which MIDI synthesisers lacked) and high-quality MIDI score. Westwood later published a revised setup utility to enable users select a different soundcard for each type of game audio: digital speech, music, and sound effects.\n\nIn 1993, it was ported to Amiga and Mega Drive/Genesis. The Amiga floppy disk port is nearly identical in interface and game play to the PC version, albeit with less detailed graphics and frequent disk swapping (the game came on five disks). Save games are stored on a specially formatted disk and the game could also be installed to hard drive. In the Amiga version the player is limited to 32 units, but patches exist to allow the DOS version to have 255 units created and managed.\n\nTwo years later it was also brought to the Archimedes and Risc PC range of RISC OS computers.\n\nThe Mega Drive/Genesis port has fairly different building and unit graphics, a full-screen menu-less user interface suited for gamepad control, and no save game support, relying on access codes for accessing each level. Other additions include a music test option and a tutorial that replaces the \"mentat\" screen. Several ideas from this version, including the music track listing and the replacement of sidebar command buttons by a context-sensitive cursor, were used in Westwood's next strategy game, \"Command & Conquer\".\n\nThe game was ported to Android in 2013. Also in 2013 a fan-made port for Pandora became available based on the reverse engineered game engine.\n\nAccording to Westwood Studios, \"Dune II\" was a commercial success, with global sales in excess of 250,000 units by November 1996.\n\n\"Computer Gaming World\" in 1993 stated that the PC version of \"Dune II\" \"easily outshines its predecessor in terms of game play ... a real gem\", with \"arguably the most outstanding sound and graphics ever to appear in a strategy game of its kind\". A February 1994 survey of space war games gave it a grade of B+, stating that without online play, there was little replayability once each House conquered the planet, but a May 1994 survey of strategic space games set in the year 2000 and later gave the game five stars out of five, describing it as \"a wargame \"par excellance\"; superb graphics and sound make an enjoyable gaming experience\". The magazine hoped that \"Command & Conquer\" would be its sequel. \"Electronic Games\" gave the game a 92% score.\n\nWhen the Amiga version of \"Dune II\" was released in 1993, it was met with positive reviews. \"CU Amiga\" magazine rated the game highly with 85%, praising the smooth gameplay and controls. \"Dune II\" received \"Amiga User International\" Game of the Month award when it was reviewed in September 1993.\n\n\"GamePro\" dubbed the Genesis version \"one of the best war strategy carts for the Genesis\", praising the controls, digitized speech, music, and fun gameplay. \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" scored the Genesis version an 8 out of 10, commenting that the gameplay is not only addictive, but easy to learn, which they stated is highly unusual for a strategy game.\n\nIn 1993 \"Computer Gaming World\" named \"Dune II\" Strategy Game of the Year. The game was ranked the 11th best game of all time by \"Amiga Power\" in 1996. In 1996, \"Computer Gaming World\" declared \"Dune 2\" the 70th-best computer game ever released. In 2004, this \"legendary\" game entered the GameSpy Hall of Fame. In Poland, it was included in the retrospective lists of the best Amiga games by Wirtualna Polska (ranked eight) and \"CHIP\" (ranked fourth). In 2012, \"Time\" named it one of the 100 greatest video games of all time. In 1994, \"PC Gamer US\" named \"Dune II\" the 49th best computer game ever. That same year, \"PC Gamer UK\" named it the 21st best computer game of all time, calling it \"a wargame for those who don't like wargames.\"\n\n\"Dune II\" was one of the most influential games in the real-time strategy genre, particularly in Westwood's own \"Command & Conquer\" series. Though not every feature was unique, its specific combination of a fog of war, mouse-based military micromanagement, and an economic model of resource-gathering and base-building became the hallmark of the RTS genre. It served as the template for subsequent real-time strategy games. Chris Taylor has stated that \"Dune II\" and \"Command & Conquer\" were great inspirations, driving him to leave Electronic Arts to create \"Total Annihilation\".\n\n\"Dune II\" also led to direct sequels: Westwood released a semi-remake for Windows in 1998 as \"Dune 2000\", along with a PlayStation port in the same year. Westwood subsequently released \"\" in 2001. There are also fan-made game engine recreations, like DuneLegacy, which aims for improved usability and controls while not changing the game-play.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239723", "title": "Coutts, Alberta", "text": "Coutts, Alberta\n\nCoutts is a village in Alberta and a port of entry into the U.S. state of Montana. It is one of the busiest ports of entry on the Canada–United States border in western Canada. It connects Highway 4 to Interstate 15, an important trade route (CANAMEX Corridor) between Alberta, American states along I-15, and Mexico.\n\nThe community has the name of William Burdett-Coutts, a railroad official.\n\nIn 2004, a joint border facility opened in Coutts–Sweet Grass, Montana, housing both Canadian and American federal authorities.\n\nIn the 2016 Census of Population conducted by Statistics Canada, the Village of Coutts recorded a population of 245 living in 122 of its 159 total private dwellings, a change of from its 2011 population of 277. With a land area of , it had a population density of in 2016.\n\nIn the 2011 Census, the Village of Coutts had a population of 277 living in 123 of its 154 total dwellings, a change of −9.2% from its 2006 population of 305. With a land area of , it had a population density of in 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239726", "title": "National Register of Historic Places listings in Oklahoma County, Oklahoma", "text": "National Register of Historic Places listings in Oklahoma County, Oklahoma\n\nThis is a list of the National Register of Historic Places listings in Oklahoma County, Oklahoma.\n\nThis is intended to be a complete list of the properties and districts on the National Register of Historic Places in Oklahoma County, Oklahoma, United States. The locations of National Register properties and districts for which the latitude and longitude coordinates are included below, may be seen in a map.\n\nThere are 156 properties and districts listed on the National Register in the county. Another 2 properties were once listed but have since been removed.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239728", "title": "Blow in the Wind", "text": "Blow in the Wind\n\nBlow in the Wind is the third album by Me First and the Gimme Gimmes, released in 2001 on the Fat Wreck Chords independent record label. \"Blow in the Wind\" features several tracks which are led off with musical mash-ups of, or homages to, classic Punk songs, a trend the group began on their second album, \"Are a Drag\" (with an appropriation of \"Generator\" by Bad Religion for their cover of \"My Favorite Things\") and would continue with \"Take a Break\" and \"Ruin Jonny's Bar Mitzvah\": \"Sloop John B\" samples \"Teenage Lobotomy\" by The Ramones, \"Elenor\" samples \"London Calling\" by The Clash, \"San Francisco\" samples \"Stranger Than Fiction\" by Bad Religion, \"I Only Want To Be With You\" samples and \"The Money Will Roll Right In\" by Fang. Similarly, the track \"Different Drum\" also ends with a guitar riff taken from \"Georgy Girl\" by the Seekers.\n\nThe first song begins with a clip similar to the hidden track on the NOFX album Punk in Drublic where Fat Mike attempts to find the proper pitch of the word \"how\" in the line \"How did the cat get so fat?\" from \"Perfect Government\".\n\nThe album is made up entirely of \"Hits of the 1960s\". The band's version of \"Different Drum\" can be heard during the credits of the film \"\".\n\nThe band's version of 'Sloop John B' is featured in the film The Wolf of Wall Street.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239740", "title": "Deltaretrovirus", "text": "Deltaretrovirus\n\nDeltaretrovirus is a genus of the \"Retroviridae\" family. It consists of exogenous horizontally transmitted viruses found in several groups of mammals.\n\nExamples are the \"Bovine leukemia virus\" and the human T-lymphotropic viruses.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239745", "title": "Take a Break (album)", "text": "Take a Break (album)\n\nTake a Break is the fourth album by Me First and the Gimme Gimmes, released on July 1, 2003, on Fat Wreck Chords independent record label.\n\nThe album consists entirely of cover versions of R&B songs. Like its predecessor, \"Blow in the Wind\", several tracks are led off with appropriations of classic punk (or related genres like new wave) riffs (\"Crazy\" incorporates \"Six Pack\" by Black Flag, \"Save the Best for Last\" includes \"Pretty Vacant\" by The Sex Pistols, and \"I'll Be There\" borrows the intro from The Cars' \"Just What I Needed\").\n\n"}
{"id": "2239746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239746", "title": "Wilhelm Schmidt (linguist)", "text": "Wilhelm Schmidt (linguist)\n\nWilhelm Schmidt SVD (February 16, 1868 – February 10, 1954) was an Austrian linguist, anthropologist, and ethnologist.\n\nWilhelm Schmidt was born in Hörde, Germany in 1868. He entered the Society of the Divine Word in 1890 and was ordained as a Roman Catholic priest in 1892. He studied linguistics at the universities of Berlin and Vienna.\n\nSchmidt’s main passion was linguistics. He spent many years in study of languages around the world. His early work was on the Mon–Khmer languages of Southeast Asia, and languages of Oceania and Australia. The conclusions from this study led him to hypothesize the existence of a broader Austric group of languages, which included the Austronesian language group. Schmidt managed to prove that Mon–Khmer language has inner connections with other languages of the South Seas, one of the most significant findings in the field of linguistics.\n\nFrom 1912 to his death in 1954, Schmidt published his 12-volume \"Der Ursprung der Gottesidee\" (\"The Origin of the Idea of God\"). There he explained his theory of primitive monotheism, the belief that primitive religion among almost all tribal peoples began with an essentially monotheistic concept of a high god — usually a sky god — who was a benevolent creator. Schmidt theorized that human beings believed in a God who was the First Cause of all things and Ruler of Heaven and Earth before men and women began to worship a number of gods:\n\nIn 1906, Schmidt founded the journal \"Anthropos\", and in 1931, the Anthropos Institute, both of which still exist today. In 1938, Schmidt and the Institute fled from Nazi-occupied Austria to Fribourg, Switzerland. He died there in 1954.\n\nHis works available in English translation are: \"The Origin and Growth of Religion: Facts and Theories\" (1931), \"High Gods in North America\" (1933), \"The Culture Historical Method of Ethnology\" (1939), and \"Primitive Revelation\" (1939).\n\nOn \"Primitive Revelation\", Eric J. Sharpe has said: \"Schmidt did believe the emergent data of historical ethnology to be fundamentally in accord with biblical revelation—a point which he made in \"Die Uroffenbarung als Anfang der Offenbarung Gottes\" (1913) . . . A revised and augmented version of this apologetical monograph was published in an English translation as \"Primitive Revelation\" (Sharpe 1939).\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239747", "title": "Asbāb al-nuzūl", "text": "Asbāb al-nuzūl\n\nAsbāb al-nuzūl (أسباب النزول), meaning occasions or circumstances of revelation, refers to the historical context in which Quranic verses were revealed. Though of some use in reconstructing the Qur'an's historicity, \"asbāb\" is by nature an exegetical rather than a historiographical genre, and as such usually associates the verses it explicates with general situations rather than specific events.\n\n\"Asbāb\" أَسْبَابْ is the plural of the Arabic word \"sabab\" سَبَبْ, which means \"cause\", \"reason\", or \"occasion\", and \"nuzūl\" نُزُولْ is the verbal noun of the verb root \"nzl\" ن ز ل, literally meaning \"to descend\" or \"to send down\", and thus (metaphorically) \"to reveal\", referring God (Allah) sending down a revelation to his prophets. Though technical terms within Qur'anic exegesis often have their origins in the book itself (e.g. \"naskh\"), \"sabab\"/\"asbāb\" does not: Despite the appearance of the stem sbb over 11 times Quran (Q.2:166, Q.18:84, Q.18:85 Q.18:89, Q.22:15, Q.38:10, Q.40:36-37), none of the verses seem the least bit connected to a statement concerning the occasions of revelation.\n\nWithin exegetical literature, the use of \"sabab\" in a technical sense did not occur until relatively late: the material which would be later culled by \"asbāb\" writers used alternate phraseologies to introduce their reports, such as \"al-āya nazalat fī hādhā\"- \"the verse was revealed about such and such\"- or \"fa-anzala allāh\"- \"so God revealed/sent down\". The term \"sabab\" in its technical sense (meaning \"occasion of revelation\") seems to begin to make its appearance in the works of Tabari (d. 922 CE) and al-Nahhas (d. 950 CE). Al-Jassas (d. 981) was the first to use the term regularly in introducing reports about the revelation of the Quran.\n\nOne can find the translation of Asbab al-Nuzul (i.e. the contexts and occasions of the Revelation of the Qur'an)into English by 'Alī ibn Ahmad al-Wāhidī (d. 468/1075), who is considered to be the earliest scholar of the branch of the Qur'anic sciences known as Asbāb al-Nuzūl. Al-Wāhidī and subsequent scholars aimed to collect and systemize information concerning all the known reasons and contexts for the Revelation of particular Qur'anic verses.\n\nModern scholarship has long posited an origin for the \"sabab al-nuzūl\" based largely on its function within exegesis. Watt, for example, stressed the narratological significance of these types of reports: \"The Quranic allusions had to be elaborated into complete stories and the background filled in if the main ideas were to be impressed on the minds of simple men.\". Wansbrough, on the other hand, noted their juridical function, particularly with regard to establishing a chronology of revelation for the purposes of such mechanisms as \"naskh\". Rippin in turn rejected this, arguing that the \"sabab\"'s primary function is in \"haggadic\"/\"qissaic\" exegesis, and that this in turn hints at its origin:\n\nOne thing common to all these theories is the assumption that the \"sabab\" is built around the Qur'ānic verse(s) embedded in it. In his extensive survey of early Muslim traditions regarding Muhammad, Rubin upends this consensus (while preserving Rippin's speculation about the ultimately \"qassaic\"/story-teller origins of these reports) by arguing that most \"asbāb\" originally started as prophetic biographical material into which Qur'anic verses were only later inserted:\n\nRubin bases this conclusion partly upon the very stereotyped way in which \"linking words\" are used to introduce Qur'anic verse into a report. Mostly, though, he relies upon the existence of multiple, parallel non-Qur'anic forms of the narrative for most \"asbāb\". Assuming that a report's link to scripture would not be removed once established, the non-Qur'anic (and thus non-exegetic) version of the report is in fact the original one. Rippin takes issue with this last assumption, though, arguing that the evidence does not preclude the creation of parallel \"sīra\" narratives even after the circulation of a supposedly \"authoritative\" Qur'anic one.\n\nThe Quran was supposedly revealed over a period of nearly twenty three years. Muslim scholars agree that the revelations of the Quran can be divided into two broad types: One type includes passages of the Quran which were revealed in response to specific events, incidents or questions put forward to Muhammad. The second type includes passages of the Quran which were not direct responses to any historical or social development in the life of the Muslim community. A thorough understanding of the first type of passages, therefore, depend on knowing the circumstances of the events which occasioned them. Such knowledge is an important tool for explaining the meanings of this type of Quranic verses.\n\nOne function of the \"sabab\" report is theological. As Rippin notes:\n\nThe occasion of revelation's primary function, though, is exegetical, and by enumerating its various uses within Qur'anic interpretation we visit nearly all the problems of concern for classical Muslim exegetes. These problems span the hermeneutical spectrum, from the most basic units of linguistic meaning to such technical intellectual disciplines as law and philosophy and all points in between. A major underlying difficulty encountered at all levels is the Qur'an's lack of structure. This extends beyond the question of temporal ordering to one of basic unity of thought and expression:\n\nThe various levels of interpretation along with their typical problems are listed below in order of increasing hermeneutical complexity:\n\n\nA detailed examination of the function of \"asbāb\" at several of these levels follows. Unless otherwise noted examples all come from Rippin's \"The function of asbāb al-nuzūl in Qur'ānic exegesis\" (\"BSOAS 51\"). Quotations from the Qur'an are taken from the .\n\nA demonstration of the two lowest-level functions of the \"sabab\" may be seen in the exegesis of verse 2:44 :\n\nA \"sabab\" put forward by both al-Wāhidī (\"Kitāb\" 22) and al-Suyūtī (\"Lubāb\" 19) claim this verse was revealed about those Jews of Medina who urged their converted relations to obey Muhammed's example even while they hypocritically refused to do so themselves (such Jewish hypocrisy being a common Qur'ānic polemical motif). The \"sabab\" thus fixes the meaning of the pronoun \"ye\", and also provides a gloss for the word \"right conduct\" (\"birr\") as the Sunnah of Muhammed.\n\nOne theory of Qur'anic verse arrangement proposes a thematic/topical ordering of ther verses (ayat). This, combined with the Qur'an's allusive literary style (e.g. \"the Qur'ānic 'they' which is frequently left ambiguous in the text\") makes establishing pericopal boundaries difficult, however. Does one verse continue the unit of meaning begun by preceding verses, or does it initiate a new one? \"Sabab\"-material was used to both erect and pull down such boundaries, as their use with respect to verses 2:114-2:115 illustrate:\n\nOne report \"suggests this verse [Q.2:115] is a continuation of Q.2:114 which concerns the destruction of mosques and thus that this verse, 115, intends that the destruction of mosques does not mean that one can no longer face a \"qibla\"\". Most \"sabab\"-material, however, locate Q.2:115 in the context of prayers not delivered in the direction of the \"qibla\" under various extenuating circumstances, thus dividing it from Q.2:114 .\n\nThe function of \"asbāb\" is most straightforward at the narratological level, where the context given identifies the characters of a story, their motivations, and ambient circumstances which influence their behavior.\n\nAn extensive example of this is the \"sabab\" attributed to Ibn Ishāq (al-Wāhidī, \"Kitāb\" 22) for verses Q.2:258 and Q.2:260, detailing Ibrahim's encounter with Nimrod. Because the \"sabab\" does not explain why the verses were revealed, only the story within it, though, this report would qualify as an instance of \"akhbār\" according to the \"sabab\" identification criteria later established by al-Suyūtī.\n\nA much more (in-)famous example of a narratological \"sabab al-nuzūl\" is the incident of the so-called Satanic Verses. In it, verses Q.22:52 and Q.53:19-23 are woven into a single narrative. Muhammad, longing to be reconciled to his people, allows Satan to interpolate several verses into the recitation of \"Surat al-Najm\" (53) recognizing the efficacy of the pagan goddesses Allāt, Manāt, and al-'Uzzā. The pagans of Mecca are so pleased by this that they immediately cease their persecution of the Muslims, to the extent that a group of Abyssinian refugees begins to return home. Yet Muhammad is later sternly chastised by the angel Gabriel for this concession to Meccan paganism, at which point God reveals Q.22:52 to comfort him as well as the real versions of verses Q.53:19-23 in which the goddesses are belittled:\n\nThis \"sabab\" appears in Wāhidī (\"Kitāb\", 177-178).\n\nFor Muslims the definition of the \"jāhiliyyah\" scene (i.e. Arabia's pre-Islamic age of \"ignorance\") was an important concern, but complicated by their religion's competing claims to be both a stark break with this past as well as a continuation of practices begun by \"Islam\" in its pre-Qur'anic, ur-religion manifestations, as in worship at the Kaaba.\n\nMany \"ethnological\" \"asbāb\" exist for this purpose, with those put forward for Q.2:158 particularly illustrative of their function at this level of interpretation:\n\nThe verse concerns the ritual practice of circumambulating between the hills of Safa and Marwa; the two \"asbāb\" cited by al-Wāhidī both describe the controversy regarding this ritual (Q.2:158's occasion of revelation) by reference to the \"jāhilī\" scene. The first \"sabab\" states that the pagan Arabs practiced this (ur-Islamically sanctioned) ritual, but that they so adulterated it with idolatry that the first Muslims pressed to abandon it until Q.2:158 was revealed. The second \"sabab\" provides conflicting ethnological data, stating that the practice was instituted by Muhammed in opposition to the pagans' sacrifices to their idols.\n\nThese \"asbāb\" have no legal incidence; they function merely to settle a matter of curiosity as well as to contrast the Islamic dispensation with what came before, obviously to the benefit of the former. This imperative, plus the fact that much of the material is contradictory make such \"asbāb\" useful only for reconstructing the development of Islamic ideology and identity, rather than the pre-Islamic Arabian past.\n\nLegal exegesis is the most hermeneutically complex level of interpretation for several reasons. One is that every ruling must be considered with respect to the corpus of Islamic holy law. If the ruling contradicts some other one, does it abrogate/mitigate its foil, or is it itself abrogated/mitigated? Note that the foil may not always be a particular verse or pericope, but a principle synthesized from multiple rulings. The second, even more basic, complexity resides in determining which verses have legal content. A seemingly proscriptive verse may be made merely polemical by interpretation, while a seemingly non-proscriptive verse may have actual legal import. Lastly there is the issue of juridical inflation/deflation (the latter termed \"takhsīs\") where the scope/applicability of the ruling may be radically increased or decreased by exegesis.\n\nThe \"asbāb\" surrounding Q.2:115 have already shown how legal consequences may be injected into a seemingly non-\"hukmic\" verse. The \"asbāb\" for Q.2:79 demonstrate the opposite:\n\nHere the reports agree the verse is directed against the Jews, and so a proscription with seemingly broad applicability is almost completely deflated into a polemical filip about Jewish alteration of holy scripture (\"tahrīf\").\n\nLastly, as an example of juridical inflation, is Q.2:104:\n\nThe \"asbāb\" put forward by the exegetes cannot establish the meaning of the probably-transliterated word \"rā'inā\", but they generally identify it as some sort of curse or mock which the Jews tricked the Muslims into incorporating into their own greetings. In any case:\n\nAs these examples amply demonstrate, supporting exegetical literature (e.g. hadith, \"sabab\"-material) are often decisive in fixing the legal meaning of a particular Qur'anic verse/pericope. Appealing to the raw, unmediated text of the Qur'an as proof of consensus within traditional Islamic law for or against some practice is thus almost always a futile exercise.\n\nThe earliest and the most important work in this genre is undoubtedly Kitab asbab al-Nuzul (\"Book of occasions of revelation\") of Ali ibn Ahmad al-Wahidi (d. 1075 CE). al-Wahidi mentions occasions of about 570 verses out of 6236 verses of the Quran. Wahidi's work is not only the first attempt to collect all the material regarding the occasions of revelation in one single volume, but it is also the standard upon which all subsequent works were based. al-Wahidi was born in the city of Nishapur and he died there at an advanced age. He was a poet, philologist, grammarian and Quranic commentator. In fact, He was considered a great commentator of the Quran of his time. His main teacher was the famous Quranic commentator al-Thalabi (d. 1036 CE) and Wahidi seems to have enjoyed the support of the Seljuq vizier Nizam al-Mulk.\n\nAnother important work is by al-Suyuti (d. 1505 CE) which is a slight improvement of al-Wahidi's book. Suyuti wrote his book about four centuries after al-Wahidi. It contains more occasions of revelation compared to Wahidi's work. His work covers 102 chapters (sura) of the Quran while Wahidi's work covers 83 suras. The name of his book is Lubab al-Nuqul fi Asbab al-Nuzul (meaning \"The best of narrations concerning the circumstances of revelation\").\n\nNo \"asbāb\" works from earlier than the 11th century are known, and it is unlikely that this genre of exegetical literature existed before then. Though there is a section titled \"Nuzūl al-Qur'ān\" in Ibn al-Nadīm's 10th-century bibliographical catalog \"Kitāb al-Fihrist\" (including one \"Nuzūl al-Qur'ān\" attributed to the semi-legendary Ibn 'Abbās as transmitted through 'Ikrima), there is no evidence to believe that most of these works ever existed, or that their ambiguous titles signify texts within the \"asbāb al-nuzūl\" genre. In Rippin's detailed examination of pre-18th-century exegetical literature, other works include as follows:\n\n\nThough al-Wāhidī may thus be considered the father of this genre (a view consistent with his rather self-serving depiction of \"asbāb al-nuzūl\" as the key to all exegesis), al-Suyūtī made significant contributions to it as well, introducing such refinements as limiting reports to only those contemporaneous with the revelation itself (reports related to events described by the verse were reclassified as \"akhbār\") and developing a \"sabab\" selection criterion different from al-Wāhidī's rather mechanistic one of scanning for a select few \"marker\" introductory phrases.\n\n\"Sabab\"-material did not originate with the \"asbāb al-nuzūl\" genre. The chief innovation of the genre was organizational (i.e. the collection of \"asbāb\"-material within one text) and to a lesser degree methodological, and so while no work prior to al-Wāhidī's \"Kitāb\" may be properly called an instance of \"asbāb al-nuzūl\", material of equivalent function exists in the earliest \"hadith\" and \"tafsir\". This distinction will be maintained here by the use of the term \"sabab\"-material for an occasion of revelation which does not necessarily come from a work of \"asbāb al-nuzūl\", and \"sabab\" only for one that does.\n\nThe reasons for \"asbāb\" 's status as a secondary genre are implicit in this bibliographical overview. Its late emergence (well into the classical period) plus its reliance on earlier \"tafsir\" works even for its raw material prevented \"asbāb al-nuzūl\" 's emergence as a major, independent approach to Qur'anic interpretation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239748", "title": "Alert, Ohio", "text": "Alert, Ohio\n\nAlert is an unincorporated community in southern Morgan Township, Butler County, Ohio, in the United States. It is located about ten miles southwest of Hamilton on Howards Creek, a tributary of the Great Miami River in section 28 of R1ET3N of the Congress Lands. It is three miles west of Shandon and two miles south of Okeana.\n"}
{"id": "2239759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239759", "title": "The Laundry Files", "text": "The Laundry Files\n\nThe Laundry Files is a series of novels by Charles Stross. They mix the genres of Lovecraftian horror, spy thriller, science fiction, and workplace humour. Their main character for the first five novels is \"Bob Howard\" (a pseudonym taken for security purposes), a one-time I.T. consultant turned occult field agent. Howard is recruited to work for the Q-Division of SOE, otherwise known as \"the Laundry\", the British government agency which deals with occult threats. \"Magic\" is described as being a branch of applied computation (mathematics), therefore computers and equations are just as useful, and perhaps more potent, than classic spellbooks, pentagrams, and sigils for the purpose of influencing ancient powers and opening gates to other dimensions. These occult struggles happen largely out of view of the public, as the Laundry seeks to keep the methods for contacting such powers under wraps. There are also elements of dry humour and satirisation of bureaucracy.\n\nWhile the stories are partially inspired by the Cthulhu mythos universe created by H. P. Lovecraft and others, they are not set in Lovecraft's universe. Stross also decides that in a world where \"magic\" works, surely the greatest magicians would be scientists who closely study the phenomena; thus his work is replete with a secret history of how various acclaimed researchers of the past also dabbled or stumbled upon occult uses of their work.\n\n\"The Concrete Jungle\" and \"Equoid\" both won the Hugo Award for Best Novella, and \"Overtime\" was a nominee for best novelette. The series as a whole was nominated for the Hugo Award for Best Series in 2019.\n\nThe Atrocity Archives is a novel by British author Charles Stross, published in 2004. It includes the short novel The Atrocity Archive (originally serialised in \"Spectrum SF\" in Spectrum SF, #7 November 2001) and The Concrete Jungle, which won the 2005 Hugo Award for Best Novella.\n\nThe protagonist of both stories is computer expert Bob Howard, who re-discovers certain mathematical equations that contact other worlds. The Laundry detects the disturbance and swoops in to give him a mandatory job offer. (\"I thought I was just generating weird new fractals; they knew I was dangerously close to landscaping Wolverhampton with alien nightmares.\") From his position in the Laundry, a secret British occult intelligence organisation, Howard is allowed to learn something of the secret history of the world, as well as the various modern counter-measures the Laundry has adopted to deal with these threats. Despite the nature of the work, the Laundry is an efficient and low-key modern organization; more cubicle-jockeying than stately mansion towers and hidden volcano lairs, in other words. A tag-line used for the books by publisher Ace Books was \"Saving the world is Bob Howard's job. There are a surprising number of meetings involved.\"\n\nIn \"The Atrocity Archive\", Howard is given work as a field agent in finding and protecting Scottish logic professor Dominique \"Mo\" O'Brien, as her work – dangerously close to the point of bending reality – has triggered the Laundry's person-of-interest checks. There, Howard must contend with the Black Chamber, which in this setting was never actually disbanded, but merely went underground as the US government's equivalent of the Laundry. Howard and Mo eventually head to Amsterdam and deal with Middle Eastern terrorists also on the hunt for Mo's work. They also research the Atrocity Archive, a classified record of German efforts in World War II. In this universe, the Thule Society, a pagan and occult group formed during the defeat of Germany in World War I, actually achieved results; they were absorbed by the Ahnenerbe, which became the occult branch of the SS, and who used German mathematician David Hilbert's research (unwillingly) to attempt to gain an edge for the Nazis. The Wannsee Conference was thus an attempt to harness the occult via mass human sacrifice in the Holocaust, but it ultimately failed after Allied interference. Mo is captured by the terrorists and sent via wormhole to an alternate universe where the Nazis \"did\" succeed – although not in a manner they'd have preferred. In this alternate universe, the Nazis summoned a frost giant out of Germanic/Norse legend, which was actually an elder being that fed on heat and who proceeded to destroy Earth. Bob and a team of SAS agents open their own gate, infiltrate the frozen universe, rescue Mo, and leave a nuclear bomb to 'sanitise' the scene. Bob belatedly realises that the nuclear bomb is a counterproductive trap; the frost giant intends to use its power to propel it into their reality, which has far more heat to eat. Bob manages to stop the device from exploding before escaping back to his original universe.\n\nIn \"The Concrete Jungle\", Bob Howard is called in for an emergency: there are too many Concrete Cows in Milton Keynes. Howard reads classified files on the presumed cause: gorgonism, which has been banned by treaty for military use, and has been researched by various scientists over time – Lavosier, Geiger, and Rutherford. Alarmingly, the government has built a network to artificially emulate gorgons in FPGAs, then planned a network of cameras that could be hooked into this emulation – the CCTV network of anti-crime cameras deployed across Britain in the late 90s and early 2000s. This network was intended as a defense if the Old Ones were to rise and attack; however, someone has subverted a CCTV camera to stone a cow, then deposited it with the other concrete cows. As unauthorised use of the CCTV-basilisk network could hold the entire nation at hostage, this is an incredible risk. In an unrelated event, Howard is informed that he is being negligent about preparing for a meeting about a Business Software Alliance audit for the Laundry's software; Howard strongly opposes the audit, as the BSA invariably installs \"spyware\" to snoop for unauthorised installations.\n\nHoward, with the assistance of Detective Inspector Josephine Sullivan of Milton Keynes, investigates the incident, which soon expands to the murder of humans as well as cows. They attempt to track who could possibly have had access to the gorgon-emulation software and installed it. Meanwhile, a ransom note is received demanding the software be uninstalled. Their investigation eventually leads them to the developers of the software, who are mostly dead from their own cameras, and an agent named \"McLuhan\" (\"the medium is the message\"). Howard discovers that the whole incident was inter-department wrangling gone wrong; a rival manager had been seeking to show that Angleton (Howard's manager) was incompetent and letting his own secret programs leak, and her minions had covered their tracks more bloodily than necessary. The \"BSA audit\" had been an excuse to install the gorgon-software into the Laundry's own internal cameras while Angleton was distracted. Howard and Sullivan infiltrate the Laundry to pull its Internet connection, while Angleton attends the meeting where he might be deposed. Howard comes upstairs to find Angleton victorious; it seems that his rival did not understand who Angleton \"truly\" reported to in the matrix management of the Laundry before launching her attempt to have him dismissed. His position as head of Counter-Possession Unit was actually secondary to his position as Private Secretary, and that position's manager went all the way to the top.\n\n\"Publishers Weekly\" was somewhat mixed in their review saying \"though the characters all tend to sound the same, and Stross resorts to lengthy summary explanations to dispel confusion, the world he creates is wonderful fun.\" \"The Washington Post\" called it \"a bizarre yet effective yoking of the spy and horror genres.\"\n\nStross states that his inspiration for the spy in these novels is closer to the out-of-place bureaucrats of Len Deighton than to the James Bond model. He also mentions that when he began writing the series in 1999, he chose as villains \"an obscure but fanatical and unpleasant gang who might, conceivably, be planning an atrocity on American soil\"; but that by the time the novel was to be published in late 2001, Al-Qaeda was no longer obscure, so he chose a different group to use in the novella.\n\nIn the afterword to the Science Fiction Book Club 2-in-1 edition of \"The Atrocity Archives\" and \"The Jennifer Morgue\", Stross notes that friends warned him against reading the novel \"Declare\" while he was working on \"The Atrocity Archives\" due to the strong parallels between the two works. Stross also mentioned the similarities between the novel and the \"Delta Green\" role-playing game, similarities referenced in the short story \"Pimpf\" included with \"The Jennifer Morgue\"; \"Delta Green\" is also about elite government conspiracies working against villains who attempt to wield power derived from the Mythos, as well as rival conspiracies.\n\nThe Jennifer Morgue is the second collection of Laundry stories by British author Charles Stross, published in 2006. It contains the title novel \"The Jennifer Morgue\", the short story \"Pimpf\", and an essay titled \"The Golden Age of Spying\". The collection is a sequel to the stories published in \"The Atrocity Archives\". Billington, the billionaire antagonist of the book, intends to repeat a 1975 CIA attempt to raise a sunken Soviet submarine in order to access the Jennifer Morgue, an occult device that allows communication with the dead, in spite of the hazard of awakening the Great Old Ones. Bob Howard thwarts this attempt.\n\nWhere 2004's \"The Atrocity Archives\" is written in the idiom of Len Deighton, \"The Jennifer Morgue\" is a pastiche of Ian Fleming's James Bond novels and refers to the real-life Project Azorian (incorrectly named by the press as Project Jennifer); Stross also uses footnotes and narrative causality, two literary devices common in the novels of Terry Pratchett.\n\n\"The Jennifer Morgue\" was nominated for the Locus Award for Best Fantasy Novel in 2007.\nThe Fuller Memorandum is the third novel in the \"Laundry\" series of novels, published in 2010. As in the previous novels, the protagonist is Bob Howard, an agent for the intelligence agency known as the Laundry.\n\nWhere \"The Atrocity Archives\" was written in the idiom of Len Deighton and \"The Jennifer Morgue\" was a pastiche of Ian Fleming's James Bond novels, \"The Fuller Memorandum\" is a homage of sorts to Anthony Price's \"Dr David Audley/Colonel Jack Butler\" series of spy thrillers, and features two minor characters named Roskill and Panin, names which appeared as recurring characters in Price's series. The title is derived from General J. F. C. Fuller, military theorist, right-wing intellectual occultist, and an associate of Aleister Crowley, and also a reference to the film The Quiller Memorandum (Stross has noted that his original intention was to pastiche Adam Hall's Quiller novels, but that he changed the plan part way through the writing).\n\nThe plot of the book revolves around an eponymous document which describes a supernatural entity, the Eater of Souls. The document and Howard's boss James Angleton go missing, and Howard must locate them. Angleton turns out to be involved in a struggle with cultist double agents inside the Laundry loyal to Nyarlathotep, who capture Howard and plan to bind the Eater of Souls into Howard's body in order to advance their goals. This fails because the Eater of Souls was already bound into Angleton's body decades ago by the predecessors of the Laundry; it has \"gone native\", aligning itself with the Laundry's goals and British values. Howard uses magic to raise the dead, using them to overcome the cultists.\n\nThe Apocalypse Codex is the fourth novel in the \"Laundry\" series, published in 2012. In this novel, the protagonist Bob Howard, an agent for the intelligence agency known as the Laundry, is tasked with investigating American Televangelist Raymond Schiller, who seeks to gain influence in Britain. Bob finds out that Schiller, who preaches a quiverfull prosperity gospel, is serving a supremely dangerous supernatural entity and trying to bring about the end of the world. The book introduces new allies for Bob: Persephone Hazard, a freelancing witch and secret agent, and Peter Wilson, a vicar and expert in biblical apocrypha.\n\nAccording to Stross, while the first three books in the series were written in the style of Len Deighton, Ian Fleming and Anthony Price, respectively, the fourth installment is written in the style of a Peter O'Donnell (\"Modesty Blaise\") novel. For future installments, Stross feels that \"the series has acquired an identity and feel of its own\", and does not intend to continue the pastiche motif.\n\nThe Rhesus Chart is the fifth novel in the \"Laundry\" series, published in 2014. The novels follow the protagonist Bob Howard, an agent for the intelligence agency known as the Laundry.\n\nThe Rhesus Chart plot describes an investigation into what appears to be vampire activity, despite the fact that people are almost suspiciously resistant to the idea that vampires could exist or be involved, which complicates the investigation. It transpires that elder vampires have been subtly mind controlling Laundry staff to convince them that vampires do not exist. A group of recently created vampires join the Laundry, and the two elder vampires in the book are destroyed, at the cost of the life of James Angleton, Howard's boss.\n\n\"The Rhesus Chart\" received a Kirkus Reviews starred review.\nThe Annihilation Score is the sixth novel in the \"Laundry\" series, published in 2015. The protagonist is Dr. Dominique \"Mo\" O'Brien, the wife of Bob Howard, the protagonist of previous books in the series and also an agent for the intelligence agency known as the Laundry.\n\nAs the world lurches toward the potentially apocalyptic forces that will probably bring about CASE NIGHTMARE GREEN (the Laundry's codeword for an inevitable worldwide awakening of Lovecraftian horrors, \"the stars coming right\"), regular humans have started developing superpowers. Mo is promoted to management, tasked to create an inter-agency department to coordinate between The Laundry and the police; two of the Laundry personnel assigned to her team are Ramona (from \"The Jennifer Morgue\") and Mhari (\"The Rhesus Chart\"), women who have history with her estranged husband Bob Howard. She is also the holder of the powerful magical Erich Zahn bone violin that she calls Lecter. Lecter is increasingly asserting its power, including induced dreams that relate to The King in Yellow. She is unwillingly compelled to act in a police plot to control the minds of the British public in the interests of law and order, which it becomes clear will backfire, releasing the King in Yellow; she overcomes it, destroying Lecter in the process.\nThe Nightmare Stacks is the seventh novel in the \"Laundry\" series, published in 2016. The protagonist is Alex Schwartz, a vampire (or \"PHANG\" in Laundry terminology) working for the Laundry, who was introduced in \"The Rhesus Chart\".\n\nOn a parallel-universe Earth, a species called Elves or \"alfar\" have evolved to be expert magic users. They have visited Earth in the past, from which comes a great deal of folklore. Civil war has left the Elves' home world uninhabitable and they plan to magically invade the Earth and make it their new home. To scout ahead, they send Agent First of Spies and Liars, the first daughter of the Elven King, who takes over the human identity of a student named Cassie. The Elves invade Leeds and threaten the British heartland with their powerful magic, but they are defenseless against non-magical human weapons and are defeated. Cassie immediately surrenders to the UK army, declares the Elves to be refugees who cannot go home for fear of their lives, and requests asylum under the Immigration, Asylum and Nationality Act 2006.\nThe Delirium Brief is the eighth book in the Laundry Files series, and was released on 11 July 2017. \"The Delirium Brief\" is set about a month after \"The Nightmare Stacks\". Unlike Books 6 and 7, the narrative viewpoint shifts back to Bob Howard. After the invasion of the Elves in which thousands of people perished, the existence of the Laundry has become public knowledge, and the agency faces a new threat, this time not supernatural but political; the Prime Minister uses the Laundry as a scapegoat and dissolves it, to be replaced with a public–private partnership. The mastermind behind this plan turns out to be an old antagonist from \"The Apocalypse Codex\", Raymond Schiller, still trying to bring about the end of the world. The rump of the Laundry executes a coup in cooperation with the surviving cultists from \"The Fuller Memorandum\", bringing Britain under the rule of Nyarlathotep as a lesser evil.\n\n\"The Delirium Brief\" is published by Tor. According to Stross, the book was somewhat delayed due to the Brexit referendum, as the pro-Brexit result required a large rewrite to reconcile the politics portrayed in the book with the real-world developments.\n\nThe Labyrinth Index is the ninth book in the Laundry Files series, and was released on 30 October 2018. Mhari Murphy, under the new other-worldly administration whose takeover was described in the previous book, is the protagonist. She is sent to the United States on a mission for the Prime Minister. There she finds that the Black Chamber has taken over the government, making the citizen forget the President. Mhari and her team try to stay one step ahead of the Deputy Director (called DeeDee) and her agents. They discover that the Black Chamber wants to use Cthulhu to protect the United States from other alien horrors. Mhari's team manages to turn loose the President, who broadcasts a reminder of his existence to the populace.\n\nStross's 2000 short story \"A Colder War\" also mixes elements of Lovecraft and espionage, and is perhaps a precursor to the Laundry stories; however, the fictional background and assumptions are different, and it is its own distinct setting (as the world is destroyed at the end of it, the Laundry series is clearly not a sequel).\n\nStross' short stories \"Down on the Farm\", \"Overtime\", and \"Equoid\" are within the same Laundry continuity. \"Down on the Farm\" and \"Equoid\" both take place between the second and third novels; \"Overtime\" takes place between the third and fourth novels. \"Equoid\" won the 2014 Hugo Award for best novella, and \"Overtime\" was a shortlist nominee for the 2010 Hugo Award for best novelette.\n\nCubicle 7 published \"The Laundry\", a role-playing game based on the \"Laundry\" stories in July 2010.\n\nStross published a short non-canonical work set in the \"Laundry Files\" universe on a fanfiction website, \"The Howard/O'Brien Relate Counseling Session Transcripts – Part 1\".\n\nAudiobook versions of the novels in the \"Laundry Files\" series have been narrated by Gideon Emery, Jack Hawkins and Caroline Guthrie.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239762", "title": "Ruin Jonny's Bar Mitzvah", "text": "Ruin Jonny's Bar Mitzvah\n\nRuin Jonny's Bar Mitzvah is a live album by Me First and the Gimme Gimmes, released on October 19, 2004, on Fat Wreck Chords.\n\nIt was recorded live at an actual bar mitzvah party, and its runtime lasts their entire performance, including a break in which little can be heard other than the sounds of party guests wandering around and chatting amongst themselves. Jonny Wixen, the Bar Mitzvah boy, plays drums on one of the hidden tracks that are on the final track. The CD comes with footage of the bar mitzvah.\n\nThe album is almost entirely made up of songs that have not appeared on previous albums. The only exceptions are two hidden tracks: \"Seasons in the Sun\" from \"Have a Ball\" (1997) and \"Sloop John B\" from \"Blow in the Wind\" (2001).\n\n\n\nGiving the album three stars, David Swanson with Rolling Stone magazine said the band members \"revel in kitsch and irony\", adding \"What's not to like?\"\n"}
{"id": "2239768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239768", "title": "Semon Knudsen", "text": "Semon Knudsen\n\nSemon Emil \"Bunkie\" Knudsen, (October 2, 1912 in Buffalo, New York – July 6, 1998 in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan), was a prominent American automobile executive.\n\nKnudsen was the son of former General Motors President, and Army three-star general William S. Knudsen. Although close with his father, he was not spoiled. He was interested in mechanical things, particularly automobiles. When he asked for a car as a teenager, his father gave him one in pieces, which he had to assemble. He pursued an engineering education, graduating from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1936.\n\nKnudsen began working for General Motors in 1939 with Pontiac Division and rose to management quickly, becoming general manager of the Detroit Diesel Division in 1955, a vice-president of the company and general manager of Pontiac Division in 1956.\n\nWhen appointed head of Pontiac, he was given the mission to improve the marque's sales. At that time Pontiac had a reliable but stodgy image. Knudsen brought in Pete Estes from Oldsmobile as chief engineer and hired John DeLorean away from Packard to be his assistant, with the assignment to create high performance versions of Pontiac's existing models. The Pontiac Bonneville and the \"wide-track Pontiacs\" came from this effort. Pontiac became heavily involved in NASCAR racing under Knudsen. Pontiac's new-found performance image eventually led to a dramatic rise in new car sales with the division reaching to third place in industry standings by 1962. In 1961, Knudsen submitted a request to add a new personal-luxury car to his division's lineup to better compete with the Ford Thunderbird but was turned down as the car was assigned to Buick, which introduced it as the 1963 Riviera. Knudsen then ordered his division to fancy up the full-sized Catalina hardtop coupe with sporty and luxurious appointments, which became a reality as the Pontiac Grand Prix for 1962.\n\nKnudsen's success at Pontiac led to his promotion to general manager of Chevrolet Division in 1961. While at Pontiac he was noted for his interest in performance, and this continued with the introduction of the Chevrolet Super Sport models. He also insisted on changes to improve the safety of the Chevrolet Corvair, which was not reported publicly until it was revealed by John DeLorean in his book \"On a Clear Day You Can See General Motors\". Knudsen also reportedly rejected an idea to offer a Pontiac version of the revolutionary Corvair in favor a front-engine compact car to be offered by Oldsmobile (as the F-85) and Buick (as the Special) for 1961. Pontiac introduced its version of the Buick-Olds-Pontiac compact as the Tempest for 1961, but gave that car some unique engineering features such as a slanted four-cylinder engine (which was really half of a Pontiac 389 V8), rear swing axles and a rear transaxle (both derived from the Corvair) driven by a flexing shaft to eliminate the driveshaft hump for increased interior space.\n\nKnudsen was elected an executive vice-president of GM in 1965. He was head of GM's Overseas, Industrial, and Defense Operation in February 1968 when he created controversy by resigning to become president of the Ford Motor Company. Rumors at the time suggested that Knudsen's move to Ford was prompted by his having been passed over for the GM presidency in favor of Ed Cole, the father of the ubiquitous and highly successful small block eight cylinder engine for the Chevrolet Corvette from 1955 to the present, and also the Corvair. Henry Ford II was looking for a seasoned executive to take charge at his company, which would allow him to spend more time on outside activities; and so the opportunity for Knudsen was ripe. Certain GM-like styling cues in several Ford products attributable to Knudsen became reality starting with the 1970 model year, including the new 'eagle beak' on the Thunderbird nicknamed the 'Bunkie Beak' by many T-Bird enthusiasts. It was similar to the V-nose grille found on the 1969 Pontiac Grand Prix, a sporty/luxurious model whose addition to the 1962 Pontiac lineup Knudsen had ordered prior to his move to Ford. Further evidence of Knudsen's styling cues can also be seen on the front-end of the completely restyled 1971 full-sized Ford line-up.\n\nKnudsen was also credited (and criticized) for ordering the design of a larger Mustang from a sporty compact ponycar to a heavier and almost-intermediate sized car for 1971, with much of the enlargement reported to be necessary in order to fit Ford's large 429 cubic-inch Cobra Jet V8 under its hood without extensive modifications (unlike the 1969-70 Boss 429 Mustang). However, by the time the '71 Mustang was introduced in September, 1970, the musclecar market had collapsed due to exorbitant insurance premiums and increasingly stringent emission regulations that led to the design of engines that could run on unleaded gasoline. Very few Mustangs were ordered with the 429 engine, which was offered only in 1971 and then dropped for 1972. The plummeting sales of the larger Mustangs led Ford to return its ponycar to its roots beginning with a downsized Mustang in 1974, based upon the Pinto platform. Although the car was not well received by enthusiasts, it fit well into its intended market.\n\nPolitical infighting with career Ford executives, notably Lee Iacocca, led to his dismissal from Ford on September 11, 1969. Reportedly, Henry Ford II sent Ford's vice president for public relations, Ted Mecke, to Knudsen's home the previous night to inform him that he would be fired, telling Knudsen that \"Henry sent me here to tell you that tomorrow will be a rough day at work.\" When Ford made the decision official the next day, Bunkie said \"I'm shocked\" to which Ford replied, \"I imagine you would be.\" Noted for his laconic replies to difficult questions, Mr. Ford told the media \"Things just didn't work out\", but later reports indicated many career Ford executives allied themselves with Iacocca and were working against Knudsen. His dismissal led to a widely circulated witticism in Ford circles as the hallmark phrase of Henry Ford I, \"History is bunk\", was turned around to \"Bunkie is history\".\n\nFollowing Knudsen's dismissal, the presidency of Ford Motor Company would officially remain vacant for more than a year until Iacocca was promoted to that office on December 10, 1970. Iacocca himself would be dismissed in similar fashion to Knudsen some eight years later in 1978.\n\nIn 1971, Knudsen became president of truck manufacturer White Motor Company in Cleveland, Ohio, where he worked until he retired in 1980 (White also became defunct that year.)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239770", "title": "Shandon, Ohio", "text": "Shandon, Ohio\n\nShandon is an unincorporated community in southeastern Morgan Township, Butler County, Ohio, United States. It is located on Paddy's Run, a tributary of the Great Miami River, about four miles west of Ross at the intersection of State Routes 126 and 748 in section 25 of R1ET3N of the Congress Lands. It was originally called Glendower as the town was settled by immigrants from Wales. It was later called New London and this survives in the names of Alert-New London and Hamilton-New London Roads. The town is in the Ross Local School District.\n\nThe foundation for the first Welsh settlement in Ohio was laid on June 29, 1801, when William and Morgan Gwilym purchased land in what is now Morgan Township at the Cincinnati Land Office. The township was named after General Daniel Morgan for his victories in the American Revolutionary War; he too was a Welsh descendant from the colony of Virginia. Settlement in the Paddy’s Run area started in 1802, a year before Ohio became the 17th state. The land was then in Hamilton County. Ohio’s first General Assembly carved Butler County out of Hamilton County March 24, 1803. Hamilton was selected as the county seat July 15, 1803. Shandon may be the Butler County community that’s had the most names in its 200-year history. Although settled by Welsh, its first post office created June 10, 1831 bore an Irish name, Paddy’s Run. It’s also been known, officially and unofficially, as Cambria, Glendower, Vaughan, New London and Bagdad before becoming Shandon more than 110 years ago.\n\nOhio nineteenth Governor William Bebb (December 8, 1802 - October 23, 1873) was an early resident of Paddy's Run, before entering politics he ran a boarding school for boys here which was called \"Bebb's High\".\n\nSome original Welsh settlers are also buried in the New London (Paddy's Run) Cemetery. The cemetery is adjacent to the old Congregational Church. The church was founded 1803, a brick Meetinghouse was built in 1824 and it is now being restored as the Community House. The present church was built in 1854. The church and cemetery are on Alert-New London Road in Morgan Township.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239772", "title": "Spumaretrovirinae", "text": "Spumaretrovirinae\n\n</ref>\n\nSpumaretrovirinae, commonly called spumaviruses (, Latin for \"foam\") or foamyviruses, are a subfamily of the \"Retroviridae\" family. Spumaviruses are exogenous viruses that have specific morphology with prominent surface spikes. The virions contain significant amounts of double-stranded full-length DNA, and assembly is rather unusual in these viruses. Spumaviruses are unlike most enveloped viruses in that the envelope membrane is acquired by budding through the endoplasmic reticulum instead of the cytoplasmic membrane. Some spumaviruses, including the equine foamy virus (EFV), bud from the cytoplasmic membrane.\n\nSome examples of these viruses are simian foamy virus and the human foamy virus.\n\nWhile spumaviruses will form characteristic large vacuoles in their host cells while \"in vitro\", there is no disease association \"in vivo\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2239775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239775", "title": "Dual-Purpose Improved Conventional Munition", "text": "Dual-Purpose Improved Conventional Munition\n\nA Dual-Purpose Improved Conventional Munition (DPICM) is an artillery or surface-to-surface missile warhead designed to burst into sub-munitions at an optimum altitude and distance from the desired target for dense area coverage. The sub-munitions use both explosively formed penetrators for anti-armor work and fragmentation for antipersonnel work. Some sub-munitions may be designed for delayed reaction or mobility denial (mines). The air-to-surface variety of this kind of munition is better known as a cluster bomb. They are banned by some countries under the Convention on Cluster Munitions.\n\nDevelopment work for DPICM projectiles began in the late 1950s, with the first projectile, the 105 mm M444 entering service in 1961. Its submunitions were simple bounding anti-personnel grenades (ICM). Production of the M444 ended in the early 1990s.\n\nThe first true DPICM was the 155 mm M483, produced in the 1970s. By 1975, an improved version, the M483A1, was being used. The projectile carried 88 M42/M46 grenade-like dual purpose submunitions. The 155 mm M864 projectile entered production in 1987, and featured a base bleed that enhances the range of the projectile, although it still carries the same M42/M46 grenades. The base bleed mechanism reduces the submunition count to 72. Work was budgeted in 2003 to retrofit the M42/M46 grenades with self-destruct fuses to reduce the problem of \"dud\" submunitions that do not initially explode but may explode thereafter upon handling. In Vietnam they were known as \"firecracker rounds\" owing to the rippling detonation of sub-munitions over a couple of seconds.\n\nWork on 105 mm projectiles started in the late 1990s based around the M80 submunition. The eventual results were two shells, the M915 intended for use with the M119A1 light towed howitzer and the M916 developed for the M101/M102 howitzers.\n\nDPICM submunitions were developed for several reasons:\n\n\nDue to the high failure rate of DPICM munitions and accuracy of GPS guided weapons, DPICM artillery shells and missiles have been less used by the U.S. military. As a result, the large quantities of munitions bought during the Cold War were put into war reserve stockpiles. However, as of 2014 most were reaching the end of their useful life and required disposal. The warheads, which are now old and less stable, must be extracted. The shells are being refilled with explosives, recycling them for use as inexpensive training ammunition. One such round is the M1122, built from recycled shell casings from DPICM rounds that have some explosive filling replaced with concrete. As a training round, the M1122 has one-seventh the explosive impact at one-third the cost of a standard M795 high explosive shell.\n\nThe U.S. Army is seeking a replacement of DPICM munitions from the Alternative Warhead Program (AWP). The AWP warhead will have equal or greater effect against materiel and personnel targets, while leaving no unexploded ordnance behind. The program is being developed by Lockheed Martin and Alliant Techsystems and the first AW rockets were ordered in September 2015.\n"}
{"id": "2239784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239784", "title": "Baker College", "text": "Baker College\n\nBaker College is a private college with its main campus in Flint Township, Michigan. It was founded in 1911 and has twelve campuses throughout the Lower Peninsula of Michigan.\n\nBaker College started as Baker Business University, which was founded in Flint, Michigan, in 1911, by Eldon E. Baker. In 1965 it merged with Muskegon College when representatives of the Jewell family, who owned and managed Muskegon College, bought Baker Business University. The university changed its name to Baker Junior College in 1974 and became a non profit corporation in 1977.\n\n\nBaker College has primarily grown through two methods: establishing new campuses and purchasing and rebranding existing small schools (for example, their Auburn Hills campus was once the Pontiac School of Business). They currently maintain fourteen ground campuses as well as an online college. Each campus is its own business entity, while an overarching Baker College Professional Services, Inc., coordinates campuses and services. Current campuses include:\n\n\nBaker College won the National Collegiate Cyber Defense Competition: 2008, 2009. Baker College won the Michigan Collegiate Cyber Defense Network state championships in: 2007, 2009, 2010, 2012, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018. They won the Michigan Collegiate Cyber Defense Network Cyber Wars championship: 2012. In 2019, Baker College was included in the Michigan Collegiate Cyber Defense Network Hall of Fame for being the only educational institution in the United States to win the national championship twice as well as for first and second place in multiple cyber defense competitions.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239785", "title": "Member of the House of Assembly", "text": "Member of the House of Assembly\n\nA Member of the House of Assembly is a member of parliament in a number of Canadian provinces or the Lower House in the Australian states of South Australia and Tasmania\n\n"}
{"id": "2239786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239786", "title": "Inter-Access Point Protocol", "text": "Inter-Access Point Protocol\n\nInter-Access Point Protocol or IEEE 802.11F is a recommendation that describes an optional extension to IEEE 802.11 that provides wireless access point communications among multivendor systems. 802.11 is a set of IEEE standards that govern wireless networking transmission methods. They are commonly used today in their 802.11a, 802.11b, 802.11g and 802.11n versions to provide wireless connectivity in the home, office and some commercial establishments.\n\nThe IEEE 802.11 standard doesn't specify the communications between access points in order to support users roaming from one access point to another and load balancing. The 802.11 working group purposely did not define this element in order to provide flexibility in working with different wired and wireless distribution systems (i.e., wired backbones that interconnect access points).\n\nThe protocol is designed for the enforcement of unique association throughout an Extended Service Set and for secure exchange of station's security context between the current Access Point (AP) and the new AP during the handoff period. Based on security level, communication session keys between Access Points are distributed by a RADIUS server. The RADIUS server also provides a mapping service between AP's MAC address and IP address.\n\nThe 802.11F Recommendation has been ratified and published in 2003.\n\nIEEE 802.11F was a Trial Use Recommended Practice. The IEEE 802\nExecutive Committee approved its withdrawal on February 3, 2006.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239787", "title": "Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Daegu", "text": "Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Daegu\n\nThe Archdiocese of Daegu (previously known as Taiku or Taegu) is a particular church of the Latin Rite of the Catholic Church. The Archbishop of Daegu, whose seat is at Kyesan Cathedral in Daegu, is Metropolitan bishop for the Dioceses of Andong, Cheongju, Masan, and Busan.\n\nIt is the second oldest episcopal see in Korea, erected as an apostolic vicariate on April 8, 1911 from the Apostolic Vicariate of Korea. It was elevated to archdiocesan status on March 10, 1962.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239791", "title": "Alberta Highway 22X", "text": "Alberta Highway 22X\n\nAlberta Provincial Highway No. 22X, commonly referred to as Highway 22X, is a highway in and around Calgary in the Canadian province of Alberta, extending to the east from Highway 22. It is concurrent with Stoney Trail (Highway 201) between Macleod Trail and 88 Street in Calgary, becoming a freeway and forming the southernmost portion of a ring road around Calgary.\n\nHighway 22X begins at Highway 22 near Priddis, running east toward Calgary and becoming Spruce Meadows Trail, named after the show jumping facility of the same name that it passes. The highway crosses Macleod Trail (Highway 2A) and becomes concurrent with Stoney Trail (Highway 201). It crosses the Bow River, then Deerfoot Trail, and the concurrency ends when Stoney Trail branches north and Highway 22X continues east to its end at Highway 24 east of Calgary, continuing to Gleichen as Highway 901.\n\nUntil it was upgraded in the 2010s as part of the Stoney Trail ring road project, the Marquis of Lorne Trail portion of Highway 22X had earned a reputation of being an accident-prone road. Southward growth of Calgary had turned the small rural highway (it remained a 2-lane rural arterial road for many years) into an urban street that was not suited for high traffic volumes.\n\nUntil the late 1990s, all of Highway 22X within the City of Calgary went by the name \"Marquis of Lorne Trail\" (with the French variant \"Marquis de Lorne\" used frequently by the city, although signage retained the English version), until the owners of Spruce Meadows successfully lobbied the city to rename the portion west of Macleod Trail after the internationally known show-jumping facility. That portion of 22X is now known as \"Spruce Meadows Trail\". In 2009, the province announced plans to complete the southeastern portion of Stoney Trail south from Highway 1A. This project included major upgrades to the Marquis of Lorne segment of 22X west from approximately 88th Street to Macleod Trail. Completed in late 2013, the upgrade resulted in the City renaming Marquis of Lorne Trail west of 88 Street as Stoney Trail and the province also re-designated the highway as Highway 201 (the designation of the rest of Stoney Trail). As of 2015, the Highway 22X designation remains in place west of Macleod Trail and east of where Stoney Trail turns northward; east of the latter the highway also retains the Marquis of Lorne Trail name.\n\nAlberta Transportation has plans for the Highway 22X corridor to eventually be developed into a freeway. A portion of Highway 22X west of Macleod Trail will become part of Stoney Trail (Highway 201) when construction of the southwest leg is completed in 2021.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239801", "title": "Ace Steel", "text": "Ace Steel\n\nChristopher Guy (born January 25, 1973) is an American professional wrestler better known by his ring name Ace Steel. He is perhaps best known for his time with Ring of Honor and occasional appearances for World Wrestling Entertainment, as well as his stint in WWE's Ohio Valley Wrestling developmental territory.\n\nGuy became interested in professional wrestling after watching American Wrestling Association shows at the International Amphitheatre as a child. He debuted in October 1991 after training with Windy City Pro Wrestling, and began using the name Ace Steel.\n\nSteel eventually formed a tag team with Danny Dominion first known as the L.A. Connection in Windy City Wrestling then the Hollywood Hardbodies. Along with Dominion, Steel worked as both wrestlers and trainers for St. Paul Championship Wrestling, an independent promotion and professional wrestling school, from 1998 to 2001 until the promotion was renamed to Steel Domain Wrestling. During this time, Steel held the promotion's Television Championship, and became the last man to hold it under the SPCW banner and the first under the SDW banner.\nSteel worked for Independent Wrestling Association Mid-South. On February 8, 2002, he defeated Kurt Krueger for the promotion's Light Heavyweight Championship. Steel held the title until March 8, when he lost it to Vic Capri. Steel would eventually reclaim the title on May 3 after defeating Capri in a thirty-minute Iron Man match, but was stripped of the title in June when he failed to defend it within the thirty-day limit.\n\nSteel is currently working for the NWL (National Wrasslin' League), a Kansas City-based promotion (NWLeague.com) where he became a tag-team champion with Michael Strider, as a member of The Foundation (2017-2018).\n\nSteel was signed by Total Nonstop Action Wrestling soon after the promotion opened in May 2002. He wrestled a tag team match with his former student, CM Punk, as the Hatebreed and received a small push as part of the X Division, but was used irregularly, working a handful of dates before his contract expired in October 2003.\n\nIn early 2003, Steel joined Ring of Honor and reformed the Hatebreed with CM Punk. On March 22, Punk and Steel faced Punk's enemy Raven and another student of Steel's, Colt Cabana, in a tag match. Cabana appeared to badly injure himself after botching a moonsault to the outside of the ring, forcing Raven to wrestle the majority of the match single-handedly. Raven eventually managed to defeat Steel following an \"Even Flow DDT\", but after the match, Cabana turned on him and aligned himself with Steel and Punk. Punk, Cabana and Steel named themselves the Second City Saints, in reference to all three stable members being from the second city of Chicago.\n\nThe Second City Saints started a feud with The Prophecy, mostly B.J. Whitmer and Dan Maff. The rivalry led to a Chicago Street Fight. The match had many dangerous spots including a Spear through a barbed wire board, a splash from inside the ring to the outside onto Maff on a ladder supported by the guardrails, and a kneeling reverse piledriver off the top rope through a table.\n\nSteel joined Harley Race's World League Wrestling promotion in 2003, and in November and December 2003 he represented WLW on a tour with Pro Wrestling Noah in Japan. Steel enjoyed working in Japan and began appearing regularly with Noah. The Gold Exchange (Matt Murphy and Superstar Steve) were the reigning Tag Team Champions, and, when Superstar Steve was injured, Steel took his place as Murphy's partner and helped defend the Tag Team Titles until Steve returned and reclaimed his half of the championships. After Murphy left the promotion, Steel became Steve's partner, and on May 7, 2005 in Ozark, Missouri Steel and Steve defeated Wade Chism and Dakota for the Tag Team Championship.\n\nSteel appeared with World Wrestling Entertainment on the September 27, 2004 episode of \"Raw\" and had his hair cut by Eugene, who would face Eric Bischoff in a hair versus hair match at the upcoming Taboo Tuesday pay-per-view. Steel used the name \"Scott Colton\" (the real name of Colt Cabana) as an inside joke. After Eugene inexpertly cut his hair, Bischoff ambushed Eugene and Steel, knocking them out with thrust kicks. Cabana returned the favor on the April 10, 2006 episode of \"Raw\" when he wrestled under the name Chris Guy, Steel's real name.\n\nSteel also made an appearance on \"Velocity\" on April 1, 2006 against Orlando Jordan, as well as various dark matches and TV appearances from July 2000.\n\nOn the January 8, 2007 episode of \"Raw\", Steel portrayed Donald Trump, in an intergender match with Kiley McLean, dubbed \"The Donald vs. Rosie\". \"Trump\" received the win after throwing Fudgie the Whale at Rosie's face and pinning her after a second turnbuckle \"hairbutt\". It was reported on January 18, 2007, in the midst of 11 releases on that day, that he officially signed a WWE developmental contract. Steel debuted in Deep South Wrestling in February. When Deep South Wrestling shut down on April 19, 2007 Steel was moved to Ohio Valley Wrestling where he was added to the roster. He debuted in September 2007.\n\nSteel wrestled on the October 5, 2007 edition of \"SmackDown!\", quickly losing to Chuck Palumbo. Ace was later released from his WWE developmental contract on February 4, 2008 along with five other developmental wrestlers.\n\nOn December 5, 2008, Steel returned to Ring of Honor at their Wrestling at the Gateway event. He teamed with Necro Butcher to defeat the team of Jimmy Jacobs and Delirious. His next match was a 10-man cage match at ROH's Caged Collision event on January 31, 2009. He also appeared at Take No Prisoners, losing to Colt Cabana.\n\nIt was announced that Steel was signed to WWE as a coach on November 2019. However, he was released on April 15, 2020.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239822", "title": "Robert Kraft (astronomer)", "text": "Robert Kraft (astronomer)\n\nRobert Paul \"Bob\" Kraft (June 16, 1927 – May 26, 2015) was an American astronomer. He performed pioneering work on Cepheid variables, stellar rotation, novae, and the chemical evolution of the Milky Way. His name is also associated with the Kraft break: the abrupt change in the average rotation rate of main sequence stars around spectral type F8.\n\nKraft served as director of the Lick Observatory (1981–1991), president of the American Astronomical Society (1974–1976), and president of the International Astronomical Union (1997–2000).\n\nHe received his B.S. at the University of Washington in 1947, M.S. in mathematics at the University of Washington in 1949, and PhD from the University of California, Berkeley. He died in 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239827", "title": "Okeana, Ohio", "text": "Okeana, Ohio\n\nOkeana, originally known as Tariff, is an unincorporated community in central Morgan Township, Butler County, Ohio, United States. It is located on Dry Fork Creek, a tributary of the Great Miami River, on State Route 126 about three miles northwest of Shandon in sections 21 and 26 of R1ET3N of the Congress Lands. It is a mile north of Alert, a mile east of Macedonia, and ten miles southwest of Hamilton. The bulk of addresses served by the Okeana post office are in the Ross Local School District, but parts of the region are in the Southwest Local School District.\n\nA post office was established there in 1828 as Tariff, but the name was changed to Okeana on May 27, 1858, after the daughter of the Indian chief Kiatta, for whom a stream in Morgan Township is named. The town of Okeana was established in 1858. The town was laid out by the Rev. Benjamin Lloyd.\n\nThe blue heron bird image is displayed on the Okeana flag, deriving from the original flag of the Miami Native American Tribe of Ohio and Indiana (currently of Oklahoma). The Miami natives flag displays images of a turtle and the blue heron bird. The gold circle around “Okeana” represents Ohio, and is gold to represent Ross school district colors.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239833", "title": "Astro Boy (character)", "text": "Astro Boy (character)\n\nAstro Boy, known in Japan as , is a fictional character and the protagonist of the eponymous franchise. Created by Osamu Tezuka, the character was introduced in the 1951 \"Captain Atom\" manga. Astro Boy has appeared in animated television shows (notably the 1963, 1980, 2003 series) and feature film adaptations of its eponymous manga, as well as a live-action TV series, other works by Tezuka, and video games.\n\nOn 7 April 2003, the City of Niiza registered the character as an actual resident. He was also inducted into the Robot Hall of Fame in 2004.\n\nAtom (known as Astro Boy or just Astro in English) originally appeared as a supporting character in the comic \"Atom Taishi\" (\"Ambassador Atom\", sometimes referred to as \"Captain Atom\"), which appeared in \"Shonen\", a monthly magazine for boys, in April 1951. Tezuka then created a comic series in which Astro was the main character.\n\nOsamu Tezuka created Astro to be, in the words of Frederik L. Schodt (creator of the English-language version of the \"Astro Boy\" manga), a \"21st-century reverse-Pinocchio, a nearly perfect robot who strove to become more human and emotive and to serve as an interface between man and machine.\" As Tezuka's art style advanced, Astro \"became more modern and 'cute'\" to appeal to the audience of boys in elementary school.\n\nAstro was created by Doctor Tenma (Dr. Boynton in the 1960s English dub), and was meant to be a replacement for his deceased son Tobio (\"Toby\" in various English translations and Astor Boynton in the 1960s English dub). However, because the robot replica was not able to grow and age like a normal human child, Doctor Tenma sold him to a Robot Circus led by the cruel Ham Egg. At the circus, Tobio was renamed to \"Astro\" and later found by Professor Ochanomizu (Dr. Elefun) and took away following the law of robot rights. Professor Ochanomizu gave Astro a family with a robotic mother, father, sister (Uran/Astro Girl) and brother (Cobalt/Jetto). As head of the Ministry of Science, Professor Ochanomizu often calls on Astro to help resolve situations involving humans, robots and (on occasion) extraterrestrials.\n\nAstro appeared in the show of the same name as its major protagonist. He was originally built by Doctor Tenma after his original son, Tobio, died in a car crash. Built in Tobio’s image, Tenma is nearing the completion of a child robot with jets and weapons that he sees as his son; however, his coworkers are afraid of the danger that such a robot may bring. While the robot is almost finished, the villain Skunk manages to steal copies of its plans and give them to count Walpur Guiss (his boss), who plans to build a robot equipped with the Omega Factor (which gives his robot the ability to lie and other negative qualities) to “rule the world”.\n\nDoctor Tenma raises Astro as if he were his dead son, teaching him to speak and eat (which Astro has the ability to perform). While being alone, Astro learns to fly but accidentally touches electric wires. His destroyed clothes appear to be the only consequences, but not very long afterward the robot has a malfunction and his eyes flashing red. Tenma calls Honda, who tells him the robot might have a short-circuit (although the real reason is the activation of Atlas, Walpur Guiss’s robot).\n\nHonda attempted to destroy the robot with a Robot Disposer, but it went out of control due Dr. Tenma's interference and it went attacking everyone of the city.\nThe robot Tobio, who had been recovered, saved everyone and destroyed the rampaging Robot Disposer, dumping it into the sea.\n\nSoon, the news that Dr. Tenma's robot gets out, and Tenma, fearing that the secret is out, decides that he and his creation shall go to America.\n\nOn the cruise ship, The robot Tobio fails to master his powers, and has caused a lot of damages such as breaking a tap and ripping away his father’s suit. As a result, Tenma forbids him to go to the dinner with him, but changes his mind at the request of a passenger who want to meet his son. However, when it is noted that Tobio is a robot, people all around the dining room are upset. Following another goof up by Tobio, Tenma expels him, refusing to acknowledge him as his son anymore and calls him a robot. While outside, Tobio is approached by a man called Hamegg who comforts him. A cruel, unforgiving ringmaster for a robot circus, he wants to use Tobio for basic backstage work and asks Astro to sign a contract. Astro, not knowing what the contract means, signs the contract and now he is a possession of Hamegg.\n\nSkunk, meanwhile, brings Atlas with him for his next plot, which is to cause icebergs to sink a ship and have Atlas recover the gold transported by the ship. Tobio foils the plan by attacking the icebergs. He meets Atlas and they both realize that they feel they already met each other in the past without knowing how, then fight. Astro is drained out of energy and falls unconscious at Atlas’ feet. About to destroy him, Atlas forgives him remembering of Livian's words who told him to not take advantage of weak people. Hamegg soon finds Tobio and locks him in his trunk. Tenma, now feeling remorse, calls for his robot son, but no-one answers.\n\nTobio wakes up at the circus surrounded by Hamegg, Kathy, his employee, and Tornado, the robot star of the circus. Tobio is given daily chores and performs a clown act in the show. Misunderstanding the instructions he is given and not yet in control of his amazing power, he commits one mistake after another, drawing Hamegg’s fury. By then, Hamegg is already doubting his decision to bring Tobio to his circus.\n\nDr. Ochanomizu is in town and watches the circus, where Tobio catches his eye. Suffering from bad maintenance, Tornado misses his circus act and is destroyed. Losing the owner’s confidence, Hamegg is in danger of losing the circus. Confident in Tobio’s abilities, Kathy convinces Hamegg that she can teach him Tornado’s dangerous act, which involves him jumping through two spinning rings filled with electricity, which would save the circus. Tobio trains while the circus moves to another city, leaving Ochanomizu, who has finally recognized him as Dr. Tenma’s missing robot. Ochanomizu finds him right as Tobio is about to perform the trapeze act. Tobio makes it, and then saves the crowd from the elephant robots that have become mad after Hamegg overpowered them.\n\nOchanomizu attempts to convince Hamegg to let Tobio go with him, but Hamegg will not hear of it. Meanwhile, Kathy plots to make it look like Tobio was destroyed in an explosion. Hamegg is convinced after watching what seems like Tobio’s parts scattered around, and rips up the contract. Kathy then secretly brings Tobio to Dr. Ochanomizu, who is going to bring him back to his native country. Ochanomizu explains that Tobio is an atomic robot, and Kathy decides he needs to bear a special name: “Atom”. And thus, back in Japan, the adventures of Atom begins.\n\nAtom re-appears as the protagonist in the 2003 series; a robot with the ability to think and reason ('Kokoro', or Japanese for 'heart and soul'). Atom was created by Doctor Tenma as a ‘replacement’ for Tobio, his deceased son. Tenma, overcome with grief, decided to make an identical robot copy, which he will raise just like his own. Tenma, however, during the project lost the trust of his fellow scientists, who had thought that he has been overcome with grief and longing for his son and as a result went insane. Tenma, who was indeed displaying signs of insanity at that point, finished his project and named the robot after his son. Unfortunately, things got out of hand as soon as Astro was led into the basement full of broken robots (including Robita) and the robot Tobio (doing the same thing the original Tobio has done) asks for Tenma to fix it. After Tenma refuses, the robot Tobio rebels against him (the same thing the original Tobio has done) and as a result, Tenma shuts him down.\n\nBefore long, Tenma well and truly went insane, and burnt down the lab of the Ministry of Science and resigning his position as minister. The robot, though, was found by Tenma successor (Ochanomizu, called Dr. O'Shay in the English dub) who attempted to bring it back to life and succeeded. The robot was renamed Atom, and Ochanomizu brought him up as a child and he eventually became the hero of Metro City.\n\nOchanomizu then made him as human-like as possible through means of allowing him to go to school, interact with friends and even gave him a robotic sister (Uran, called Zoran in the English dub), which he is very protective of. Ochanomizu also acts like a father to him, and also in the household is the nanny-bot Robita (different from the other one which used to live with Tobio). Despite at time acting and behaving like a normal human boy, when duty calls he often fights and defeats evil robots, humans and on occasion aliens. Strangely, another villain is Dr. Tenma, who is deeply unsure if he wants Atom back or if he wants to kill him, as he is still insane. Following the Robotania episodes, Atom was badly damaged and Dr. Ochanomizu could not repair him, however Dr. Tenma offered a deal: he would restore Atom if Dr. Ochanomizu allowed him to do the work alone.\nAtom was repaired, but got all his memories erased, however Uran and Atom's friends went to his rescue and attempted to protect him from Lamp who went on a rampage against Dr. Tenma and Atom upon learning about their hideout.\n\nAtom recovered his memories and defeated Lamp, afterward Dr. Tenma fled and later attacked the science ministry where he revealed Atom his story.\n\nDr. Tenma told Atom that he had rebelled against him just like the dead Tobio did and wanted him to join his side, but Atom refused.\n\nWith this, Dr. Tenma started a time bomb and tried to destroy himself, but Atom tells him that he didn't want his father to die and Dr. Tenma tells him to live with Dr. Ochanomizu since he wasn't suitable for being a father after all that he has done.\n\nLater, the robots earned rights and Dr. Tenma was then found in the prison putting photos of both of his sons.\n\nAfterward, Atom's friends congratulated him for having his dream realized, but he said that there would still another dream to be realized.\n\nThis series also had a game counterpart.\n\nThe film is set in the futuristic Metro City, a metropolis which floats in the sky above the polluted \"Surface\". Metro City's population is aided by a multitude of different robots who are dumped on the Surface when broken or disused. Toby, son of Dr. Tenma, learns that his father is going to show President Stone, the militaristic leader of the city, the Peacekeeper, a new guardian robot that he's been working on. Doctor Elefun, one of Tenma's colleagues, introduces Stone to the Blue and Red Cores, two energy spheres mined from a star fragment, that produce energy which can power robots via positive and negative energy, respectively. Stone places the Red Core in the Peacekeeper, causing it to go out of control. The Peacekeeper tries to attack the humans, but Tenma puts a barrier between them. Meanwhile, Toby has been released early from school, and rewires Orrin, his family's robot, in order to attend the Ministry of Science's demonstration of the Peacekeeper. Seeking to have a closer look at the Peacekeeper, Toby enters the same room as the robot, only for the Peacekeeper's first attempt to destroy the barrier to backfire with the result that Toby is totally annihilated. After the Peacekeeper is stopped by security forces, Dr. Tenma, wracked with despair, builds an identical robot clone of Toby, using DNA from a strand of his hair to obtain his memories, which will make the robot think he \"is\" Toby. He also powers the robot with the positive blue core. The robot quickly comes to life, and Tenma brings him home.\n\nTenma quickly realizes that while the robot possesses Toby's memories, it is not exactly like his original son, as the robot's higher mental and physical powers frequently remind him. Tenma had initially included the robot's powers in order to prevent his \"son\" from being destroyed again. Unaware that he is a robot, Toby tries to figure out why he can understand the language of some robot cleaners and discovers he can fly via rocket-boosters hidden in his shoes. He discovers various other abilities and heads home to tell his father, only to find that Tenma and Elefun are discussing deactivating him. Tenma reveals to Toby that he is a robot. President Stone's men detect the Blue Core's energy signature and pursue Toby. Stone calls in the Spirit of Freedom: a massive, heavily armed, flying battleship. Rendered unconscious, Toby falls off the floating city and lands in the junkyard below. He meets several children including Cora, a girl who left Metro City after her parents neglected her, and a robotic dog named Trashcan. Toby meets the Robot Revolution Front: Sparx, Robotsky and Mike the Fridge, who easily identify Toby as a robot and rename him \"Astro\". Astro goes along with his new name and lives with the children and their fatherly figure, Hamegg, who appears to care for broken robots, but secretly treats robots just as callously as Stone, and also runs the Robot Games: destructive gladiatorial matches in which robots are forced to fight to the death.\n\nAstro and his friends find an offline construction robot named ZOG. Astro secretly revives ZOG, and the kids bring him back and clean him up for the Hamegg games. Later that night, Astro comes across Cora trying to call Metrocity. She reveals to him that she actually has parents and was worried if they even missed her. Astro promises not to tell and tries to tell her his secret but can't. The next day at the Hamegg games, Hamegg betrays Astro, learning of him being a robot, and pits Astro against other robots in the Robot Games. Unable to simply leave, Astro is forced to destroy all the robots. Hamegg releases ZOG for Astro to fight, but both refuse to fight one another. Stone and his men arrive then and arrest Astro. They take him back to the Ministry of Science, where Tenma is asked to remove the Blue Core; however, at the last moment, he has a change of heart, accepting that even if Astro isn't Toby, he's still his son, and allows Astro to escape. This is the only media in which Tenma accepts his creation back as his son. Stone places the Red Core into the Peacekeeper again, only for it to absorb him and take on his consciousness. Astro and Stone fight across the city, demolishing most of the buildings and causing the city to begin crashing to Earth. Astro is able to slow Metro City's descent by flying underneath and pushing upwards with his leg-rockets. Cora, the other children, and the Robot Revolution try to help to bring down the Peacekeeper/Stone fusion. Stone catches Astro and is about to absorb him, but when the Blue and Red Cores clash, he lets Astro out due to the close proximity of the two Cores causing him great pain.\n\nAstro lands in a building, where he reunites with Tenma. Tenma informs him that if the Blue Core and Red Core come together, Astro and the Peacekeeper will both die. Astro decides that this was the reason he was made, and flies straight toward Stone, crashing into him and merging the Cores which destroys the Peacekeeper and frees Stone (who is knocked out from the collision). However, with both Cores drained of energy, Astro is deactivated. Cora, Dr. Elefun and others find Astro's body. ZOG transfers some of his Blue Core energy (which Astro kindly gave him) to Astro; with the catalyst restarted, the Blue Core once more becomes a limitless source of energy, so Astro is easily revived and his wounds automatically heal. Astro is reunited with Dr. Tenma, and Cora finds and makes up with her parents. Stone awakes, only to be arrested by his own troops. When an alien life-form appears over the city, the movie ends with Astro flying up to battle it.\n\nAstro’s weapons in the movie have been changed or altered when compared to the other series. Astro has machine guns on his backside like in the 1980s series, however this time they fire actual bullets, instead of lasers. His finger lasers “digibeam” is absent. Instead of the arm cannon in the 2003 series, it is changed to full arm blasters in both arms. Also, his arm rockets are absent, although his arm cannons can also serve as a means of propulsion. In the 1980s series, Astro’s eyes act as lights, while in the 2003 series they allow him to analyze things. However, in the film, they are also lights, although they can see through skin or tissue imitating skin, much like an X-ray. Also, Astro retains his super hearing and strength, as well as rockets in his feet.\n\nAnother difference is Astro’s source of power. In the original series, he is powered by atoms (hence his Japanese name), but yet in the film he is powered by the Blue Core Energy, made out of pure positive energy. It is unknown as to why the writers changed his power source. Also, this is the first time that Uran does not appear at all.\n\nAs part of the Osamu Tezuka's Star System, Astro has appeared in several of the artist's works (although he is not always identified as \"Astro Boy\").\n\n\nAstro was listed on \"Empire magazine's\" 50 Greatest Comic Characters list ranking forty third, making Astro the only manga character on the list. IGN's Chris Mackenzie also ranked Astro Boy as 2 on the list of the top anime characters of all time. Astro was placed tenth Mania Entertainment's 10 Most Iconic Anime Heroes written by Thomas Zoth who commented that \"he was Japan's first great modern cartoon hero, on the printed page and the TV screen\". In 2014, IGN ranked him as the fourth greatest anime character of all time.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239835", "title": "Ken Hechtman", "text": "Ken Hechtman\n\nKen Hechtman (born December 16, 1967) is a freelance journalist from Canada who achieved brief international prominence in late 2001 when Afghanistan's Taliban government charged him with being a United States spy while he researched a story for the \"Montreal Mirror\". Afghanistan tried, acquitted, and released him after a short time in jail.\n\nHe married fellow Montrealer and journalist Wendy Hechtman on September 12, 2015. They moved to Nebraska in February 2016. \n\nAccording to police investigators, Hechtman and his wife Wendy invented a pastel-colored version of carfentanil, an opioid that can be up to 10,000 times more powerful than morphine and that can kill a human with only a few grains touching human skin. Hechtman and Wendy allegedly \"developed a sophisticated marketing system with a sales team of about 40 people.\"\n\nKenneth and Wendy were charged with conspiracy to manufacture 10 grams or more of fentanyl analogue, conspiracy to distribute a fentanyl analogue, and possession with intent to distribute 400 grams or more of a fentanyl analogue between on or about March 2017 and October 30, 2017. The maximum sentence if convicted is life imprisonment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239845", "title": "Skin test", "text": "Skin test\n\nA skin test is a medical test in which a substance is injected into the skin.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239852", "title": "Peugeot P4", "text": "Peugeot P4\n\nThe P4 is an unarmoured off-road vehicle used by the military of France. It was manufactured by Peugeot but is now manufactured by Panhard. It is to be replaced with the PVP by Panhard. The P4 is a derivative of the Mercedes Geländewagen military version built under license by Peugeot for the French military. Peugeot did not have a licence to export the vehicle anywhere else than to the countries bound to France by defence agreements.\n\nIt is scheduled to be replaced by the ACMAT ALTV.\n\nThe Peugeot P4 is a light, unarmoured, four-wheel-drive vehicle manufactured by Peugeot, and used by the Military of France under the designation of \"\"Véhicule léger tout-terrain\"\" (\"Light all-terrain vehicle\"). It is based on the Mercedes-Benz G-Class and equipped with Peugeot engine and equipment.\n\nIn the late 1960s, the French army decided that its 10,000 Jeeps needed to be replaced. The replacement vehicle would carry four men with radio equipment and would be small enough to be parachuted and transported by plane.\n\nAfter many technical issues, the new vehicle was designed in the 1970s. Agreement was reached between Peugeot and Mercedes to co-produce the vehicle on a 50:50 basis. Peugeot installed the engine of the Peugeot 504 and the transmission of the Peugeot 604 on the Mercedes-Benz G-Class; it also installed the electrical systems, welded the exterior and painted the car. The rest was done by Mercedes. The plant in Sochaux did the final assembly. The first prototype was tested in 1978, beginning a long series of tests and trials, notably a rally in south Algeria with a petrol and a diesel P4.\n\nThe French Army ordered 15,000 P4s, both petrol and diesel versions; in 1981, the order was reduced to 13,500 units with the downsizing of the Army. From 1985, production was transferred to Panhard in Marolles-en-Hurepoix, where 6,000 vehicles were produced. In 2016, P4s were donated to the Cameroonian military for its special forces units.\n\nA civilian version was made, but encountered little success because of the high price and a poor power-to-weight ratio.\n\nIn 1992, the Army converted their petrol P4s into diesel P4D (\"P4 Diesel\") models. The conversion was executed by Panhard (1300 VLTT) and the \"Établissements régionaux du matériel\". The engine, a 2.5-liter Peugeot four-cylinder, is the same as used in the original diesel P4.\n\nThe P4 P (\"P4 Protégé\", \"protected P4\") is an armoured version, with 80 units built in the 1990s. An armored version was made at the request of Peugeot by CBH Institutions (Constructions Blindées of Hardricourt).\n\nThis version has been evaluated by the French Army and commissioned by the Navy for the Protection of sensitive sites. Five different versions were produced.\n\n\nThe four digits at the end of the name signify the three wheelbases of that were available. Some P4 armored CBH have been manufactured for use in Lebanon. An operation Manufacturer and the GIGN was conducted in November 1988 for testing rolling over 24 hours. The P4 Shielded CBH AKIS blue police carried out the range of 1000 km to the average of 134.5 km per hour and the total distance of 3180 km in 24 hours is an average of 132.5 km / hour with 4 men on board. The engine was a 2.5-litre turbo exchanger amended by CBH, which had an output of 150 hp. This record was not approved at the request of the Gendarmerie.\n"}
{"id": "2239858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239858", "title": "Josh Bard", "text": "Josh Bard\n\nJoshua David Bard (born March 30, 1978) is an American former professional baseball catcher. He is the bullpen coach for the Los Angeles Dodgers of Major League Baseball (MLB). He played in MLB as a catcher for the Cleveland Indians, Boston Red Sox, San Diego Padres, Washington Nationals and Seattle Mariners from 2002 to 2011. Bard was a switch-hitter who threw right-handed during his playing career.\n\nBard was born in Ithaca, New York. His family moved to Elizabeth, Colorado, when he was an infant. He attended Cherry Creek High School in Greenwood Village, Colorado. He then attended Texas Tech University, where he was a three-time All-American while playing for Texas Tech Red Raiders.\n\nOn August 23, 2002, Bard made his MLB debut against the Seattle Mariners and hit a walk-off home run, becoming the second player to accomplish this feat in a debut since Billy Parker. In 2003, Bard posted a .244 average with 8 home runs and 36 RBI in 91 games played.\n\nIn 2004, Bard spent the first half of the season on the disabled list due to an abdominal injury, and then spent nearly the rest of the season in the minors. In 2005, Bard returned to the Indians roster, backing up Víctor Martínez.\n\nIn January 2006, Bard was acquired by the Boston Red Sox, along with outfielder Coco Crisp and reliever David Riske, for reliever Guillermo Mota, third base prospect Andy Marte, and catcher Kelly Shoppach. He became the Red Sox's backup catcher during spring training 2006 following the retirement of John Flaherty.\n\nAs a member of the Boston Red Sox in April 2006, his primary duties were catching knuckleball pitcher Tim Wakefield. In the beginning of the season, this proved to be a challenging task, as Bard gave up 3 passed balls in his first appearance for the Red Sox on April 5, 2006. In an April 26, 2006, game against the Cleveland Indians, Bard gave up 4 passed balls, giving him a total of 10 passed balls in his first 5 games.\n\nA few days later, Bard was traded along with Cla Meredith to the San Diego Padres for Doug Mirabelli. Mirabelli, who had been traded by the Red Sox to the Padres for Mark Loretta during the offseason, was experienced at catching Tim Wakefield.\n\nA lifetime .240 hitter before joining the Padres, Bard hit .338 in 231 at-bats the rest of the season as the backup to Mike Piazza.\n\nBard was behind the plate on August 4, 2007, for a home game against the San Francisco Giants. He was catching for pitcher Clay Hensley when Hensley gave up Barry Bonds's 755th home run, which tied Bonds with Hank Aaron for most career home runs.\n\nBard's hot hitting did not continue into the 2008 season. He began the season as the Padres' starting catcher, with Rob Bowen as his backup. In June, Bowen was traded to the Chicago Cubs for catcher Michael Barrett. In October 2008, Bard left the Padres and became a free agent.\n\nOn January 2, 2009, Bard returned to the Red Sox with a one-year, $1.6 million contract, which included a $3 million club option for 2010. However, on March 18, he was released.\n\nOn March 21, 2009 Bard signed a minor league deal with the Washington Nationals and was invited to Spring Training. He played in 90 games for the Nationals, hitting .230.\n\nOn December 28, 2009, Bard signed a minor league contract with the Seattle Mariners.\n\nBard has his contract purchased by Seattle on June 29, 2011. He played in 26 games with the Mariners, hitting .210. He elected free agency on October 30. On August 13, 2011, he was involved in a controversial play against the Boston Red Sox. Dustin Pedroia hit a fly ball to Ichiro Suzuki, who caught the ball as Jacoby Ellsbury tagged up from third and tried to score. Ichiro, who was known for throwing runners out at home, threw a strike to Bard, who collided with Ellsbury. He held onto the ball and got hurt on the play. Shortly after, he dropped the ball. Ellsbury was initially called safe. Eric Wedge came out to argue. The umpires discussed it and soon called Ellsbury out. Terry Francona was ejected for arguing the call.\n\nHe signed a minor league contract with the Los Angeles Dodgers in December 2011. He was released by the Dodgers on March 29, 2012. But later re-signed with them and was assigned to the AAA Albuquerque Isotopes. He was the backup catcher to Tim Federowicz at Albuquerque and appeared in 45 games with a .331 batting average. Bard singled in his final career at bat against the Omaha Storm Chasers in the Isotopes season-ending playoff loss on September 9, 2012.\n\nBard retired after the season and chose to remain with the Dodgers as a Special Assistant. He became the Dodgers major league bullpen coach for the 2016 season.\n\nThe New York Yankees hired Bard as their bench coach for the 2018 season under new manager Aaron Boone. Bard served as acting manager on September 2, due to Boone serving a one-game suspension and again the following season on July 19. On November 11, 2019, Bard left his bench coach position in order to find a job closer to his Colorado home and was replaced by infield coach Carlos Mendoza.\n\nOn December 9, 2019, the Dodgers announced that Bard would return as their bullpen coach for the 2020 season.\n\nAlthough Bard was born in Ithaca, New York, his family moved to Colorado when he was five-months old. His wife, Lindsey, is a teacher and they have been married for 10 years. Together they have three children.\n\nHis brother, Mike Bard, is an MLB personal coach, was a collegiate coach for 13 years, and is currently a private instructor in the Denver area at Bardo's Diamond Sports in Parker. He is, however, not related to Daniel Bard, a former professional baseball pitcher.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2239860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239860", "title": "Scipio, Indiana and Ohio", "text": "Scipio, Indiana and Ohio\n\nScipio is an unincorporated community in Franklin County, Indiana and Butler County, Ohio, United States. It is at the intersection of State Routes 126 and 129.\n\nScipio was platted in 1826.\n\nThe post office Scipio once contained had the name Philanthropy. It operated from 1836 until 1839.\n"}
{"id": "2239868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239868", "title": "Seymour Schulich", "text": "Seymour Schulich\n\nSeymour Schulich, OC (born January 6, 1940) is a Canadian businessman, investor, author and philanthropist.\n\nSchulich was raised in a Jewish family in Montreal, Quebec. He graduated from McGill University with a BSc in 1961 and an MBA from the Desautels Faculty of Management in 1965. He earned the Chartered Financial Analyst designation from the University of Virginia in 1969.\n\nHe is married to Tanna and they live in Willowdale, a neighbourhood of Toronto. They have two daughters and four grandchildren.\n\nHis first job was at Shell Oil Company. From 1968 to 1990, he worked at Beutel, Goodman & Company Ltd., a pension fund management company which manages in excess of $10.6 billion CAD (as of 2003), becoming president and vice-chairman.\n\nIn 1978, Schulich, along with partner Pierre Lassonde, helped pioneer the concept of royalty payments in the mining industry: their Franco-Nevada and Euro-Nevada companies discovered some precious minerals, but their royalty arrangements allowed them to gain ownership stakes in some of the world’s most profitable mines. A $1,000 investment in Franco-Nevada's stock in 1983 was worth $1.2 million in 2002, equivalent to a 40% average annual rate of return. In 2002, Franco-Nevada merged with Normandy Mining Limited of Australia and Newmont Mining Corporation, creating the largest gold mining company in the world, Newmont Mining Corporation. Schulich was Director of Newmont Mining and Chairman of its merchant banking division from 2002-2007.\n\nIn 2007, Schulich published a book titled \"Get Smarter: Life and Business Lessons\".\n\nSchulich has donated funds to numerous Canadian universities including York (Schulich School of Business), Western Ontario (Schulich School of Medicine & Dentistry), Calgary (Schulich School of Engineering), Dalhousie (Schulich School of Law, Dalhousie Faculty of Computer Science), McGill (Schulich School of Music), Nipissing (Schulich School of Education), and Queen's (Schulich-Woolf Rare Book Collection). The first and largest donation that was made was to the Schulich School of Business at York University. All degrees issued by the Schulich School of Business now bear the signature of Seymour Schulich. His philanthropy also extends beyond universities, to the Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre (Schulich Heart Centre) in Toronto, and outside Canada to the University of Nevada, Reno (Schulich Lecture Hall) and Technion – Israel Institute of Technology.\n\nOn October 15, 2009, Schulich officially presented a donation in the amount of $20 million to Dalhousie University's Law School; in doing so, the Law School has now been renamed the Schulich School of Law.\n\nOn October 14, 2011, Schulich announced a $100 million scholarship program targeting students entering the science, technology, engineering and math fields (STEM) in Canada and Israel. This gift is being co-administered by UJA Federation of Greater Toronto and the Schulich Foundation. The program is called \"Schulich Leader Scholarships\", the largest undergraduate STEM scholarship opportunity in each country.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239869", "title": "Professor Ochanomizu", "text": "Professor Ochanomizu\n\nOchanomizu realizes that Astro Boy is unique from the other robots and accepts Astro Boy in as a foster son. Ochanomizu gives Astro Boy a robotic family so that he can experience family life.\n\nProfessor Ochanomizu is generally portrayed as the head of the Ministry of Science in the \"Astro Boy\" series. He is relatively portly, and has a large elongated nose which is his most sensitive area. Sometimes he is involved in nose fights it tends to falls off. His other notable features are the white fluffy tufts of hair that wrap around his head in a male-pattern baldness style.\n\nOchanomizu is portrayed as a caring father figure to Astro. After Doctor Tenma abandoned him, Ochanomizu has always gone to great lengths to retrieve him. The character is a supporter of robot rights, and believes that humans and robots can co-exist peacefully, as opposed to Tenma. He is the only major human character to support this view, with the majority opposed to it (such as Acetylene Lamp). Ochanomizu also has the belief that robots can think for themselves and can behave like humans, extending Astro's robot family to include his parents, younger sister Uran and also older brother Cobalt. Although the fact is that Astro is indeed a robot hero, he also wants Astro to be a regular human boy. Due to this, he often sends Astro on missions and repairs him when needed.\n\nIn \"Astro Boy\", Ochanomizu (known as \"Dr. Elefun\") is a colleague to Doctor Tenma. He implants the mysterious, extraterrestrial life, \"blue core\" in the body of Astro Boy to power him. When Tenma decides to abandon Astro for not being human-like, Ochanomizu tends to be more caring but does not share his view. He pleads on behalf of Astro every time he appears such as when he tells that even though he can't see the future, he tells Astro that he just has to find his place in the world. He also seems to not like President Stone trying to use the Red Core due to its power. He is voiced by English actor Bill Nighy who also voices Robotsky of the Robot Revolutionary Front in the film.\n\nWhile the usual English version of the name Pakadermus J. Elefun is a pun related to the character's nose and appearance, in the Japanese version, the name Ochanomizu stands for \"Tea Water\", which is also a neighborhood in Tokyo. It is unknown if his family members (which are never mentioned) have the same nose, however in the manga \"Pluto\" he is shown to be a widower with a granddaughter, who appeared briefly. Much of the character's background is also left unexplored, although in the 1979 movie \"\", he reveals that he was from Polynesia. In \"\", Hiroshi Ochanomizu has a sister called Ran.\n"}
{"id": "2239876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239876", "title": "There's Only One of You", "text": "There's Only One of You\n\n\"There’s Only One of You\" is a popular song with music written by Robert Allen and lyrics by Al Stillman. The song was published in 1958.\n\nThe song was one of a large number of Stillman-Allen compositions that were recorded by The Four Lads. This recording (made February 16, 1958) was released by Columbia Records as catalog number 41136. It first reached the Billboard charts on April 7, 1958. On the Disk Jockey chart, it peaked at #10; on the Best Seller chart, at #43; on the composite chart of the top 100 songs, it reached #41.\n"}
{"id": "2239889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239889", "title": "Vanak", "text": "Vanak\n\nVanak () is a neighbourhood in the northern part of Tehran, capital of Iran and there is a square and a street named after it. The word Vanak means \"Small (ash) Tree\" in Persian.\n\nThe name derives from the original older village of Vanak (\"Deh-e Vanak\") in the area, and today there is also a square called Vanak nearby. Vanak is one of the important junctures in Tehran and the midpoint for some of the city's highways such as the \"Jahan-Kudak\" (now \"Haghani\"), Chamran, Hemmat and Modarres.\n\nA small Armenian community has lived near the Vanak village for a very long time. Today the Ararat Sports Complex is the largest sports complex of Armenian Iranians. The complex located near Vanak square.\n\nVanak is an affluent neighbourhood with highrise commercial buildings, a golf course, chic cafés and malls, and a funfair called \"Funfair\" which has not been in operation since 1995.\n\nMostowfi ol-Mamalek, a former prime minister of Persia is buried in a private residence in Vanak neighbourhood .\n\nThere is a village with the same name in Farahan (Ashtian) in Markazi Province. Probably Mirza Hassan Ashtiani Mostowfi ol-Mamalek is from this village.\n\nIn addition there is another town with the same name (Vanak) near Semirom in Isfahan Province.\nThe border of this multi purpose district start from the seoul street on the north and it diverge into the Chamaran and sheykh Bahayi street on the right and left. Vanak reaches to its end in the hemmat expressway. Hashemi Rafsanjani expressway, another important highway in Tehran, passes through the northern part of vanak region.[1] \n"}
{"id": "2239890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239890", "title": "USWA Television Championship", "text": "USWA Television Championship\n\nThe USWA Television Championship was a secondary title in the United States Wrestling Association that was primarily defended on their television show. It existed from 1996 until 1997.\n"}
{"id": "2239891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239891", "title": "Who Needs You?", "text": "Who Needs You?\n\n\"Who Needs You?\" is a popular song with music by Robert Allen and lyrics by Al Stillman. It was published in 1956.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239896", "title": "Renzapride", "text": "Renzapride\n\nRenzapride is a gastroprokinetic agent and antiemetic which acts as a full 5-HT full agonist and 5-HT antagonist. It also functions as a 5-HT antagonist and has some affinity for the 5-HT and 5-HT receptors.\n\nRenzapride was being developed by Alizyme plc of the United Kingdom. In May 2016, EndoLogic LLC, a US based pharmaceutical and medical device company acquired the US and world wide patent rights to Renzapride. EndoLogic planned to develop Renzapride for the treatment of gastroparesis.\n\nGastroparesis is a common condition affecting more than 20 million people in the US including 5 million diabetics. Currently, only one drug, metoclopramide, dopamine D2 receptor antagonist, is FDA approved for the treatment of gastroparesis in the US.\n\nPatients treated with metoclopramide are at risk for serious side effects, some of which are permanent, such as tardive dyskinesia, hence limiting the use of metoclopramide to no more than 12 weeks.\n\nEndologic confirmed the cardiac safety of renzapride through a “Thorough QTc” study and sold the rights to Atlantic Healthcare in 2019.\n\nRenzapride was being investigated for the treatment of constipation-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS-C). It is also potentially effective for irritable bowel syndrome with alternating stool pattern (IBS-A). It is being developed by Alizyme plc of the United Kingdom.\n\nThe renzapride Phase 3 trial in 2008 for the treatment of constipation-dominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS-C) demonstrated a small but statistically significant benefit in the Phase 3 study in IBS-C, however, Alizyme decided not to pursue development of the drug for this indication.\n"}
{"id": "2239900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239900", "title": "Helix (ear)", "text": "Helix (ear)\n\nThe helix is the prominent rim of the auricle. Where the helix turns downwards posteriorly, a small tubercle is sometimes seen, namely the \"auricular tubercle of Darwin\".\n"}
{"id": "2239904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239904", "title": "Stockton Arena", "text": "Stockton Arena\n\nStockton Arena is an indoor arena in Stockton, California. It opened in December 2005 and seats a maximum of 12,000 fans.\n\nIt is the home venue of the Stockton Heat of the American Hockey League and Stockton Kings of the NBA G League. Former tenants include the Stockton Lightning arenafootball2 team, the Stockton Cougars Professional Arena Soccer League team, the Stockton Wolves independent indoor football team, the California Eagles American Indoor Football professional indoor football team and the Stockton Thunder of the ECHL from 2005 until 2015.\n\nThe Stockton Arena is part of a downtown, waterfront entertainment center which includes Banner Island Ballpark, the home of the Stockton Ports minor league baseball team and the University Plaza Waterfront Hotel, all part of the Stockton Waterfront Events Center.\n\nThe Arena is part of a master-planned waterfront design on the western edge of the downtown Central Business District. The 360 Architecture designed venue is situated next to the Stockton Ballpark. A multi-purpose sporting and event center, the arena was envisioned as part of the region's quality of life improvements. Construction delays and inclement weather caused the Stockton Thunder and California Cougars to play on extended road trips during the beginning of their 2005/2006 season. Stockton Arena opened its doors to the public on December 2, 2005 with a Neil Diamond concert.  The first sporting event was a Stockton Thunder hockey game on December 10, 2005 in front of a sold out crowd of 10,117, a game where the Thunder beat the Phoenix RoadRunners, 4-0. \n\nThe Stockton Arena hosted the 2008 ECHL All-Star Game, World Wrestling Entertainment house shows for both SmackDown/ECW and Raw, and the July 26, 2008 MMA event.\n\nOn March 15, 2009, the California Cougars won their first ever league championship in the Stockton Arena, as the 2008–2009 PASL-Pro North American Champions.\n\nOn December 9, 2009, the arena hosted the \"Stockton Showcase\" which featured a matchup between the nationally ranked California Golden Bears and the Pacific Tigers men's Basketball teams in front 8,704 fans, the largest crowd ever to see a Pacific Tigers basketball game in Stockton.\n\nOn June 19, 2014, the San Jose Sharks announced that the arena would host a split-squad exhibition game featuring the Sharks and the Vancouver Canucks on September 23. The Sharks won 5–3.\n\nOn August 29, 2015, the arena hosted ArenaBowl XXVIII, which featured the Jacksonville Sharks and the San Jose SaberCats, with the SabreCats winning in what would be their final game.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239911", "title": "Talib Jauhari", "text": "Talib Jauhari\n\nTalib Jauhari () is a Pakistani Islamic scholar, poet, historian and philosopher of the Shia Sect of Islam.\n\nTafseer-e-Quran:\n\nMaqtal:\n\nReligion:\n\nPhilosophy:\n\nPoetry:\n\n"}
{"id": "2239915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239915", "title": "Glossop North End A.F.C.", "text": "Glossop North End A.F.C.\n\nGlossop North End Association Football Club is a football club in Glossop, Derbyshire, England. Formerly members of the Football League, they currently play in the and are members of the Derbyshire County Football Association. Their home ground is Surrey Street, currently known as the Amdec Forklift Stadium, which has a capacity of 1,350 (209 seated, 1,141 standing). The club play in blue, and are nicknamed the Hillmen or the Peakites. Between 1899 and 1992 the club was officially known simply as Glossop.\n\nGlossop is one of the smallest towns in England to have had a Football League club, and it remains to this day the smallest town whose team has played in the English top flight.\n\nAt the turn of the 20th century, Glossop played in the Football League First Division, the highest level of English football, for a single season. During this period the club was bankrolled by Sir Samuel Hill-Wood, who was later to become chairman of Arsenal. The club retains some connections with Arsenal.\n\nGlossop North End were founded in 1886, when they played friendly amateur matches. They played at various grounds in the town, including Pyegrove, Silk Street, Water Lane and Cemetery Road before settling at North Road.\nThe club joined the North Cheshire League in 1890, before moving to the Combination in 1894 and turning professional. In their first season in the Combination, 1894–95, they finished as runners-up. After ending the following season, 1895–96, in third, the club moved to the Midland League and in the 1896–97 season finished as runners-up. After a second season in the Midland League, they were elected to the Second Division of the Football League in 1898–99 finishing as runners-up to Manchester City and winning promotion to the First Division. They then changed their name to Glossop (primarily to avoid any confusion with Preston North End) before spending their one and only season in the top flight, 1899–1900 when they finished in last place and were relegated back to the Second Division, having won only 4 matches, all at home, against Burnley, Nottingham Forest, Blackburn and Aston Villa.\n\nThey then spent the next fifteen seasons in the Second Division, during which time they reached the quarter-finals of the FA Cup in 1908–09 where they lost to 1–0 to eventual finalists Bristol City in a replay on 10 March 1909. The club's chairman and benefactor at the time was Sir Samuel Hill-Wood, who was later to become chairman of Arsenal. However, the club became perennial strugglers in the Second Division.\n\nThe 1913–14 season saw a club record attendance of 10,736 for an FA Cup second round match against Preston North End on 31 January 1914. However, the following season they finished bottom of the league and had to apply for re-election. This was curtailed when the start of World War I meant the Football League closed down. Glossop were then re-formed toward the end of the war by Oswald Partington, but failed to be re-elected back into the Football League. Glossop then joined the Lancashire Combination, playing just one season, 1919–20. Northern Nomads ground-shared with Glossop for several years during this time. The club then dropped out of the Lancashire Combination and into the Manchester League. In the 1920s and 1930s they won the Gilcryst Cup three times and were crowned Manchester League champions in 1927–28. They won the Gilcryst Cup for a fourth time in 1947–48.\nDuring 1955, the club moved from its original home of North Road to their current ground Surrey Street. In 1957 Glossop rejoined the Lancashire Combination, finishing in eighth in 1957–58. They spent nine seasons in the league before dropping back down once more to the Manchester League after the 1965–66 season. They joined the Cheshire County League as founder members of Division Two in the 1978–79 season, finishing in 17th. In 1980–81 they were Division Two runners-up, only losing out on the title on goal difference, but still winning promotion to Division One. After a sixth-place finish in 1981–82, the club became founder members of the newly formed North West Counties Football League in 1982 when the Cheshire County League merged with the Lancashire Combination. In 1986, the club marked their centenary season with a match with sister club Arsenal. They joined Division One, however they struggled in the league for the next six seasons and after finishing bottom in 1987–88 were relegated to Division Two. The 1990–91 season saw the club reach the fourth round of the FA Vase where they lost to Cammell Laird 2–1 in a replay. They also won the North West Counties Football League Division Two Cup, beating Cheadle Town 2–1 in the final. However, the club almost folded in 1990–91 when their then Chairman sold the ground to the local council and left the club with large debts. The present Board of Directors took over in January 1991. After a sixth-place finish in 1991–92 they were promoted back to Division One over higher-placed clubs and after the season the directors reverted the club's name to Glossop North End.\n\nIn their first season under the club's original name, they reached the semi-finals of the North West Counties League Cup, before losing to Nantwich Town 5–2 over two legs. They reached the semi-finals of the League's floodlit Cup in 1994–95, losing to Penrith 3–1 over two legs. In the 1996–97 season they beat Trafford in the final of the Manchester Premier Cup at Old Trafford, before winning the competition again the following season, this time beating Radcliffe Borough in the final at Maine Road. They also reached the semi-finals of the North West Counties League Cup, losing to Vauxhall Motors 3–1 over two legs.\n\nIn the 2000–01 season they won the Derbyshire County Football Association Senior Challenge Cup beating Glapwell in a two-legged final, drawing 3–3 away and 2–2 at home before winning 4–2 on penalties. In the league the club struggled to avoid relegation from Division One throughout much of the early 2000s, before finishing ninth in 2006–07, the highest position attained by manager Chris Nicholson in his six seasons at the club. Nicholson announced in March 2007 that he was to step down at the end of the season. As a result, his assistant Steve Young was eventually appointed manager for 2007–08. In the 2008–09 season they reached the final of the FA Vase where they lost 2–0 to Northern League First Division side Whitley Bay at Wembley Stadium, on 10 May 2009.\nDue to this achievement, Arsenal, with whom they retain connections due to Arsenal chairman Peter Hill-Wood's grandfather Sir Samuel Hill-Wood having owned and bankrolled Glossop during their run in the Football League, invited them to their state-of-the-art London Colney training ground during their stay in London, to prepare for the FA Vase final.\n\nIn May 2013 the club appointed Chris Wilcock as first team manager. In his first season the team finished third in the North West Counties League. During the season Glossop produced an unbeaten run in the league of 22 games, with only 5 draws, stretching from November 2013 until they were beaten by Bootle on April 2014.\n\nOn 19 April 2015 Glossop beat Nelson to win the North West Counties League Premier Division, earning promotion to Division One North of the Northern Premier League. They also reached two cup finals; the North West Counties League Cup, where they faced Atherton Collieries winning 2–0, and the FA Vase final, in which they played North Shields at Wembley Stadium. In a repeat of the 2009 final, Glossop were beaten 2–1 after extra time.\n\nGlossop began the 2015–16 season in the Northern Premier League Division One North. They also competed in the FA Trophy for the first time since 1986. The club finished fourth and qualified for the playoffs but lost 2–1 to Northwich Victoria in the semi final. At the end of the 2016-17 season Chris Wilcock resigned as manager, leaving the position after 4 seasons and as the winningest manager in recorded history. On 19 May 2017 the club announced that the joint team of Steve Halford and Paul Phillips would take the reins at Surrey Street On 12 March 2018 the management team left Glossop to join Buxton. Goalkeeper coach Mark Canning took over as caretaker manager, assisted by Andy Bishop. This was made a permanent position at the end of the 2017–18 season. However, after a poor run of results, culminating in a loss to Widnes in mid October, Canning and Bishop were sacked. After a short search the board appointed ex-Mossley duo Peter Band and Lloyd Morrison as joint managers on 14 October 2018.\n\nIn an unprecedented move the majority of football activities were ceased mid March 2020 due to the corona virus, and by the end of March the NPL took the decision along with all step 4 and lower divisions to end the season early and expunge all results with no promotion or relegation taking place.\n\nGlossop played at a variety of grounds, including Pyegrove, Silk Street, Water Lane and Cemetery Road before settling at North Road. The ground was originally used for cricket, but became home to Glossop North End in 1898 when the club were elected to the Second Division of the Football League. The football ground was located in the south-east corner of the site, with a seated stand was constructed on the northern side of the pitch and raised earth embankment on a triangular space in the south-east corner and eastern sides. During the football season a temporary wooden seated stand was erected behind the western goal, but removed for the cricket season. The first League match played at North Road was on 3 September 1898, with Glossop defeating Blackburn Rovers 4–1 in front of 4,000 spectators. The last Football League match at North Road was played on 17 April 1915, with just 500 spectators watching a 1–1 draw with Stockport County.\n\nDuring 1955, the club moved from its original home to the club's home ground Surrey Street. Floodlights were installed in 1992.\n\nDuring the off-season of 2010 the Supporters' Club funded and helped build the new team benches, replacing the aged and basic ones with new spacious dugouts. In the summer of 2011 the club upgraded more of the facilities at Surrey Street. The new clubhouse, dressing rooms, refreshment bar and hospitality room were completed in a relatively short amount of time being ready for the first pre-season game of 2011–12. By March 2012 the ground had achieved the FA Ground Grading grade of E which is required for football clubs to participate at step 4 of the National League System.\n\nDuring the off season of 2014 season Glossop were approved a grant from the Football Foundation to replace the aged pitch perimeter fence with a new sports rail with mesh panel infill. With that and a few other improvements they achieved the FA Ground Grade of D which was required to remain at step 4 of the National League System. In the summer of 2018 new floodlights were installed.\n\nAs of 12 April 2020\n\nPlayers who have international playing experience or top division experience who have played for Glossop include:\n\n\n\n\n\"Based on win % in all competitive matches\"\n\nItalic - denotes Caretaker Manager\n\n\n\n\n\nThe club have a ladies team, Glossop North End Ladies, which was established in 1998. In 2014–15 the team reached the final of the Derbyshire Girls & Ladies League Challenge Cup, losing 2–1 to Mackworth St Francis.\n\nThe following season saw them the Challenge Cup, defeating Castle Donnington Ladies 4–1. On 11 May they won the erbyshire Girls & Ladies League Division One title. They retained the league title the following season, after which they transferred to Division One of the Cheshire WFL.\n\n\nGlossop North End AFC Juniors was established in 1989. They have teams of both boys in age groups from 6 years old right to Under-21, and girls in age groups from Under-9 to Under-16. They were accredited to the FA Charter standard Award in 2004, and in 2015 were awarded Derbyshire FA Charter Standard Community club of the year.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239925", "title": "Banner Island Ballpark", "text": "Banner Island Ballpark\n\nBanner Island Ballpark is a baseball stadium located in Stockton, California, on the Stockton waterfront, which seats 5,200 people with 4,200 fixed seats. It is the home field of the Stockton Ports, a minor league affiliate of the Oakland Athletics in the Class A California League.\n\nThe $22 million Banner Island Ballpark opened with a baseball game on April 28, 2005, during which the Stockton Ports defeated the San Jose Giants, 7–4, in front of a sellout crowd of 5,287 fans. The ballpark is a part of a revitalization project for the Downtown Stockton waterfront. It was built concurrently with the Stockton Arena and will be integrated with a waterfront park as part of the Stockton Waterfront Events Center.\n\nThe Banner Island area is also the purported home of a previous Stockton baseball team that played in the late 1800s. Local residents claim that the team was the inspiration for the Mudville Nine in \"Casey at the Bat\", a poem by Ernest Thayer. Before moving to the ballpark, the Stockton Ports were known as the Mudville Nine during the 2000 and 2001 seasons.\n\nThe name \"Banner Island Ballpark\" is actually an unofficial name that is used among fans and the administration of the Stockton Ports. The City of Stockton owns the naming rights of the ballpark and until the rights are sold the stadium is officially known as Stockton Ballpark.\n\nThe ballpark gets its unofficial name from the area in which it is located, Banner Island. This was once an island in the San Joaquin River delta, noted during the Civil War for the huge \"Stars and Stripes\" posted by a Union supporter. In time the island was connected to the mainland through land fill and only the southern shore remains. Despite the fact the area is no longer an island, the Banner Island name has stuck.\n"}
{"id": "2239926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239926", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Andong", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Andong\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Andong () is a diocese of the Latin Rite of the Catholic Church located in Andong, South Korea. The diocese is suffragan to the Archdiocese of Daegu.\n\nOn 29 May 1969 Pope Paul VI established the Diocese of Andong from territory taken from the Archdiocese of Daegu and the Diocese of Wonju.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239927", "title": "Asymmetric federalism", "text": "Asymmetric federalism\n\nAsymmetric federalism or asymmetrical federalism is found in a federation or confederation in which different constituent states possess different powers: one or more of the substates has considerably more autonomy than the other substates, although they have the same constitutional status. The division of powers between substates is not symmetric. This is in contrast to symmetric federalism, where no distinction is made between constituent states. As a result, it is frequently proposed as a solution to the dissatisfactions that arise when one or two constituent units feel significantly different needs from the others, as the result of an ethnic, linguistic or cultural difference.\n\nThe difference between an asymmetric federation and federacy is indistinct; a federacy is essentially an extreme case of an asymmetric federation, either due to large differences in the level of autonomy, or the rigidity of the constitutional arrangements. An asymmetric federation, however, has to have a federal constitution, and all states in federation have the same formal status (\"state\"), while in a federacy independent substate has a different status (\"autonomous region\").\n\nAsymmetrical federalism can be divided into two types of agreements or arrangements. The first type resolves differences in legislative powers, representation in central institutions, and rights and obligations that are set in the constitution. This type of asymmetry can be called \"de jure\" asymmetry (Brown 2). The second type reflects agreements which come out of national policy, opting out, and (depending on one's definition of the term) bilateral and \"ad hoc\" deals with specific provinces, none of which are entrenched in the constitution. This type of asymmetry is known as \"de facto\" asymmetry. The Canadian federation uses a combination of these, which make up its asymmetrical character.\n\nThe Constitution of Canada is broadly symmetric but contains certain specific sections that apply only to certain provinces. In practice, a degree of asymmetry is created as a result of the evolution of the Canadian federal experiment, individual federal-provincial agreements, and judicial interpretation. Asymmetrical federalism has been much discussed as a formula for stability in Canada, meeting the aspirations of French-speaking Quebec for control over its cultural and social life without removing it from the national federation, where it coexists with nine largely English-speaking provinces.\n\nThe most prominent example of asymmetric federalism in Canada is the constitutional requirement that three Supreme Court justices must come from Quebec. The nine other provinces are each entitled to fair representation in the Supreme Court, but their entitlement is based on convention rather than enshrined in the constitution.\n\nA recent example of asymmetry in the Canadian federation can be found in the terms of the September 2004 federal-provincial-territorial agreement on health care and the financing thereof. The Government of Quebec supported the broader agreement but insisted on a separate communiqué in which it was specified, among other things, that Quebec will apply its own wait time reduction plan in accordance with the objectives, standards and criteria established by the relevant Quebec authorities; that the Government of Quebec will report to Quebecers on progress in achieving its objectives, and will use comparable indicators, mutually agreed to with other governments; and that funding made available by the Government of Canada will be used by the Government of Quebec to implement its own plan for renewing Quebec's health system.\n\nFor example, Quebec operates its own pension plan, while the other nine provinces are covered by the federal/provincial Canada Pension Plan. Quebec has extensive authority over employment and immigration issues within its borders, matters that are handled by the federal government in all the other provinces.\n\nSuch an arrangement has led to criticism in the English-speaking provinces, where there is fear that Quebec is enjoying favouritism in the federal system. It, however, provides a useful lever for those who want to decentralize the structure as a whole, transferring more powers from the centre to the provinces overall, a trend that dominated Canadian politics for decades.\n\nThe Government of India (referred to as the \"Union Government\" or \"Central Government\") was established by the Constitution of India, and is the governing authority of a \"federal union\" of 28 states and 8 union territories.\n\nThe governance of India is based on a tiered system, wherein the Constitution of India appropriates the subjects on which each tier of government has executive powers. The Constitution uses the Seventh Schedule to delimit the subjects under three categories, namely the Union list, the State list and the Concurrent list.\n\nA distinguishing aspect of Indian federalism is that it is asymmetric. Until 2019, Article 370 made special provisions for the state of Jammu and Kashmir as per its Instrument of Accession. Article 371 makes special provisions for the states of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Goa, Mizoram, Manipur, Nagaland and Sikkim as per their accession or statehood deals.\n\nAlthough the Constitution did not envisage it, India is now a multilingual federation. India has a multi-party system with political allegiances frequently based on linguistic, regional and caste identities, necessitating coalition politics, especially at the Union level.\nIn Indonesia, although the form of state is Unitary, four regions were given the special status of autonomy (\"keistimewaan\") as provinces. They were namely Aceh, Jakarta, Jogjakarta, and West Papua. These regions were given special statuses based on the constitutional laws of special autonomy (\"Undang-Undang Keistimewaan Daerah\") with each having their own special degree of special autonomy:\n\nAceh exercises the Sharia law bond with the Aceh traditional culture system of government instead of using the unitary system the other provinces had. Besides that, Aceh was also granted the rights over the participation of regional parties in their province, unlike the other provinces.\n\nJakarta is the capital city and, unlike other cities in Indonesia, which were granted a second-tier of country subdivision or the same degree as a regency, exercises the autonomous power the same as a first-tier level of country subdivision does.\n\nJogjakarta was granted special status over the exercise and involvement of the royal family of Keraton Jogjakarta and Kadipaten Pakualaman, where the Sultan of Jogjakarta rules the province in charge, taking the place the equal as a governor in other provinces. Acting as his deputy is the Adipati of Pakualam. The two rule as the executive leaders of Jogjakarta.\n\nPapua/Irian Jaya is granted a special status over the exercise of legislative power. Papua has a separate legislative council, the MRP (\"Majelis Rakyat Papua\"/Papuan People's Assembly), which exercises legislative power over Papua inside the People's Consultative Assembly, the Legislative Council of Indonesia. However, the status of Papua has been criticized due to much intervention from the Jakarta. International human rights activists have called Papua a 'fake autonomous province' due to the lack of real autonomy in the field.\n\nThe relationship between Iraqi Kurdistan and other states of the Iraq federation can be characterized as asymmetric federalism. The political and cultural distinctiveness of Iraqi Kurdistan is lawfully recognized in Article 5 of the Iraqi Constitution. Iraqi Kurdistan is the sole federative region in Iraq, which enjoyed its separative political entity as \"de facto\" state from 1991 to 2003, and voluntarily rejoined a federal democratic Iraq.\n\nIn Italy, five regions (namely Sardinia, Sicily, Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol, Aosta Valley and Friuli-Venezia Giulia) have been granted special status of autonomy. Their statutes are constitutional laws approved by the Italian Parliament, granting them relatively broad powers in relation to legislation and administration, but also significant financial autonomy. They keep between 60% (Friuli-Venezia Giulia) and 100% (Sicily) of all taxes and decide how to spend the revenues. These regions became autonomous in order to take into account that they host linguistic minorities (German-speaking in Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol, Arpitan-speaking in Aosta Valley, Friulian and Slovenian-speaking in Friuli-Venezia Giulia) or are geographically isolated (the two islands, but also Friuli-Venezia Giulia).\n\nMalaysia is a federation of 13 states formed in 1963 by the merger of the independent Federation of Malaya and the formerly British colonies of Singapore, Sabah, and Sarawak.\n\nUnder the terms of the federation, Sabah and Sarawak are granted significant autonomy in excess of that exercised by the 11 Malayan states, most notably the control over immigration to these two states.\n\nSingapore was a part of Malaysia until 1965. During its time as a state of Malaysia, Singapore enjoyed autonomy in setting labour and education policies.\n\nThe Russian Federation consists of 83 (85 counting disputed Crimean territories) federal subjects, all equal in federal matters but enjoying six more or less different levels of autonomy.\n\nA republic is the most autonomous subject. Each has its own constitution, has its own official language and is meant to be home to a specific ethnic minority. An autonomous okrug also has a substantial ethnic minority, but is not allowed to have its own constitution and official language. An oblast, a krai, and an autonomous oblast has subjects without a substantial ethnic minority, completely equal to an autonomous okrug with other rights. A federal city is a major city that functions as a separate region.\n\nPreviously, the Soviet Union often demonstrated traits of asymmetric federalism, including defining the RSFSR's Constitution inside of the 1936 Soviet Constitution, subnational asymmetric federalism (especially within the RSFSR but also in other SSRs), and giving the RSFSR the most representation in the Supreme Soviet, particularly the Soviet of Nationalities, where each autonomous area of the RSFSR was granted additional representation.\n\nIn Spain, which is either called an \"imperfect federation\" or a \"federation in all but its name\", the central government has granted different levels of autonomy to its substates, considerably more to the autonomous communities of Catalonia, the Basque Country, Valencia, Andalusia, Navarre and Galicia and considerably less to the others, out of respect for nationalist sentiment and rights these regions have enjoyed historically.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, England has no self-government and is ruled directly by the British Parliament, but Scotland, Northern Ireland and Wales have varying degrees of autonomy. However, many people believe that asymmetrical devolution of powers (most notably to the Scottish Parliament and Welsh Assembly) is unfair, which causes the ongoing West Lothian question. The United Kingdom is a unitary state, not a federal one, according to its constitution, and the British Parliament still remains sovereign.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239933", "title": "Shahr-e Bazi", "text": "Shahr-e Bazi\n\nShahr-e Bazi, (literally \"The City of Games\" in English, formerly Luna Park), was an amusement park located in the north of Tehran. Covering , it was the largest amusement park in the Islamic Republic of Iran and admitted around 2.5 million visitors every year. It has been closed since 2007 due to highway construction. None of the facilities are available anymore.\n\nThe amusement park was opened in 1970 under the Shah. It was built by Abbas Pedarsani. It became a state-owned park after the Iran–Iraq War in 1988. In the following years, the state-owned park was made more technologically advanced.\n\nShahr-e Bazi featured twelve thrill rides, as well as a cinema and theater. There were also six restaurants with different food from around the world. Souvenir shops and a money exchange office were located around the park. One of the main reasons for the park's popularity were its water slides and pools.\n\nThe park was open 10 months a year, during spring, summer and autumn. During winter, heavy snow made it necessary to keep the park closed. Admission was around $3 for adults, whereas children under seven could get in free.\n"}
{"id": "2239948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239948", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Chunchon", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Chunchon\n\nThe Diocese of Chunchon (also romanized \"Chuncheon\" and \"Ch’unch’on\", ) is a particular church of the Latin Rite of the Roman Catholic Church in South Korea. A suffragan in the ecclesiastical province of the Metropolitan Archdiocese of Seoul, it has ecclesiastic authority over the administrative province of Gangwon-do.\nIts cathedral episcopal see mother church is Jungnim-dong Cathedral in Chuncheon.\n\nThe jurisdiction was erected on April 25, 1939 as a missionary pre-diocesan jurisdiction on territory split off from the Apostolic Vicariate of Seoul under the name Apostolic Prefecture of Shunsen, the city's name during the period of Japanese rule of Korea.\nIt was renamed the Apostolic Prefecture of Chunchon on July 16, 1950 and made an Apostolic vicariate on September 20, 1955.\nIt was elevated to diocesan status on March 10, 1962.\n\nOn 22 March 1965, it lost territory to establish the Diocese of Wonju 원주\n\n"}
{"id": "2239953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239953", "title": "UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network", "text": "UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network\n\nUTRAN (short for \"UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network\") is a collective term for the network and equipment that connects mobile handsets to the public telephone network or the Internet. It contains the base stations, which are called Node B's and Radio Network Controllers (RNCs) which make up the UMTS radio access network. This communications network, commonly referred to as 3G (for 3rd Generation Wireless Mobile Communication Technology), can carry many traffic types from real-time Circuit Switched to IP based Packet Switched. The UTRAN allows connectivity between the UE (user equipment) and the core network.\n\nThe RNC provides control functionalities for one or more Node Bs. A Node B and an RNC can be the same device, although typical implementations have a separate RNC located in a central office serving multiple Node Bs. Despite the fact that they do not have to be physically separated, there is a logical interface between them known as the Iub. The RNC and its corresponding Node Bs are called the Radio Network Subsystem (RNS). There can be more than one RNS present in a UTRAN.\n\nThere are four interfaces connecting the UTRAN internally or externally to other functional entities: Iu, Uu, Iub and Iur. The Iu interface is an external interface that connects the RNC to the Core Network (CN). The Uu is also external, connecting the Node B with the User Equipment (UE). The Iub is an internal interface connecting the RNC with the Node B. And at last there is the Iur interface which is an internal interface most of the time, but can, exceptionally be an external interface too for some network architectures. The Iur connects two RNCs with each other.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239959", "title": "McGonigle, Ohio", "text": "McGonigle, Ohio\n\nMcGonigle is an unincorporated community in northwestern Hanover Township, Butler County, Ohio, United States about seven miles northwest of Hamilton at the intersection of U.S. Route 27 and State Route 130 in sections 17 and 18 of R2ET4N of the Congress Lands. It was formerly a stop on the Cincinnati, Hamilton, and Dayton Railroad's Indianapolis branch. It was named for Philip McGonigle, an early settler, and is spelled in various ways (McGonigle is the spelling on the official Butler County highway map).\n\n"}
{"id": "2239963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239963", "title": "Kartini", "text": "Kartini\n\nRaden Adjeng\" Kartini (21 April 1879 –17 September 1904), sometimes known as Raden Ayu\" Kartini, was a prominent Indonesian national hero from Java. She was a pioneer in the area of education for girls and women's rights for Indonesians.\n\nBorn into an aristocratic Javanese family in the Dutch East Indies, now Indonesia, she attended a Dutch-language primary school. She aspired to further education but the option was unavailable to her and other girls in Javanese society. She came into contact with various officials and influential people, including J.H. Abendanon, who was in charge of implementing the Dutch Ethical Policy.\n\nKartini wrote letters about her ideas and feelings, and they were published in a Dutch magazine and later as: \"Out of Darkness to Light\", \"Women's Life in the Village\", and \"Letters of a Javanese Princess\". Her birthday is now celebrated as Kartini Day in Indonesia. She took an interest in mysticism and opposed polygamy. Her advocacy for the education of girls was continued by her sisters. Kartini Schools were named for her and a fund established in her name to fund the education of girls.\n\nKartini was born into an aristocratic Javanese family when Java was part of the Dutch colony of the Dutch East Indies. Kartini's father Sosroningrat became Regency Chief of Jepara. Kartini's father was originally the district chief of Mayong. Her mother Ngasirah was the daughter of Madirono and a teacher of religion in Telukawur. She was his first wife but not the most important one. At this time, polygamy was a common practice among the nobility. Colonial regulations required a regency chief to marry a member of the nobility. Since Ngasirah was not of sufficiently high nobility, Sosroningrat married a second time to Woerjan (Moerjam), a direct descendant of the Raja of Madura. After this second marriage, Kartini's father was elevated to Regency Chief of Jepara, replacing his second wife's own father, Tjitrowikromo.\n\nKartini was the fifth child and second-eldest daughter in a family of eleven, including half siblings. She was born into a family with a strong intellectual tradition. Her grandfather, Pangeran Ario Tjondronegoro IV, became a regency chief at the age of 25, while Kartini's older brother Sosrokartono was an accomplished linguist. Kartini's family allowed her to attend school until she was 12 years old. Here, among other subjects, she learned to speak Dutch, an unusual accomplishment for Javanese women at the time. After she turned 12 she was secluded (\"pingit\") at home, a common practice among Javanese nobility, to prepare young girls for their marriage. During seclusion girls were not allowed to leave their parents' house until they were married, at which point authority over them was transferred to their husbands. Kartini's father was more lenient than some during his daughter's seclusion, giving her such privileges as embroidery lessons and occasional appearances in public for special events.\nDuring her seclusion, Kartini continued to educate herself on her own. Because she could speak Dutch, she acquired several Dutch pen friends. One of them, a girl by the name of Rosa Abendanon, became a close friend. Books, newspapers, and European magazines fed Kartini's interest in European feminist thinking, and fostered the desire to improve the conditions of indigenous Indonesian women, who at that time had a very low social status.\n\nKartini's reading included the \"Semarang\" newspaper, to which she began to send contributions which were published. Before she was 20 she had read \"Max Havelaar\" and \"Love Letters\" by Multatuli. She also read \"De Stille Kracht (The Hidden Force)\" by Louis Couperus, the works of Frederik van Eeden, Augusta de Witt, the Romantic-Feminist author Goekoop de-Jong Van Eek, and an anti-war novel by Berta von Suttner, \"Die Waffen Nieder! (Lay Down Your Arms!)\". All were in Dutch.\n\nKartini's concerns were not only in the area of the emancipation of women, but also other problems of her society. Kartini saw that the struggle for women to obtain their freedom, autonomy, and legal equality was just part of a wider movement.\n\nKartini's parents arranged her marriage to Joyodiningrat, the Regency Chief of Rembang, who already had three wives. She was married on 12 November 1903. Her husband understood Kartini's aims and allowed her to establish a school for women in the east porch of the Rembang Regency Office complex. Kartini's only son was born on 13 September 1904. A few days later on 17 September 1904, Kartini died at the age of 25. She was buried in Bulu Village, Rembang.\n\nInspired by R.A. Kartini's example, the Van Deventer family established the R.A. Kartini Foundation which built schools for women, 'Kartini's Schools' in Semarang in 1912, followed by other women's schools in Surabaya, Yogyakarta, Malang, Madiun, Cirebon and other areas.\nIn 1964, President Sukarno declared R.A. Kartini's birth date, 21 April, as \"Kartini Day\"—an Indonesian national holiday. This decision has been criticized. It has been proposed that Kartini Day should be celebrated in conjunction with Indonesian Mothers Day on 22 December, so that the choice of R.A. Kartini as a national heroine would not overshadow other women who, unlike R.A. Kartini, took up arms to oppose the colonizers.\n\nIn contrast, those who recognize the significance of R.A. Kartini argue that not only was she a feminist who elevated the status of women in Indonesia, she was also a nationalist figure with new ideas, who struggled on behalf of her people and played a role in the national struggle for independence.\n\nAfter Raden Adjeng Kartini died, Mr. J.H. Abendanon, the Minister for Culture, Religion, and Industry in the East Indies, collected and published the letters that Kartini had sent to her friends in Europe. The book was titled \"Door Duisternis tot Licht (Out of Dark Comes Light)\" and was published in 1911. It went through five editions, with some additional letters included in the final edition, and was translated into English by Agnes L. Symmers and published under the title \"Letters of a Javanese Princess\".\n\nThe publication of R.A. Kartini's letters, written by a native Javanese woman, attracted great interest in the Netherlands, and Kartini's ideas began to change the way the Dutch viewed native women in Java. Her ideas also provided inspiration for prominent figures in the fight for independence.\n\nThere are some grounds for doubting the veracity of R.A. Kartini's letters. There are allegations that Abendanon made them up. These suspicions arose because R.A. Kartini's book was published at a time when the Dutch colonial government was implementing its Dutch Ethical Policy in the Dutch East Indies, and Abendanon was one of the most prominent supporters of this policy. The current whereabouts of the vast majority of R.A. Kartini's letters are unknown. According to the late Sulastin Sutrisno, the Dutch Government has been unable to track down J. H. Abendanon's descendants.\n\nIn her letters, Raden Adjeng Kartini wrote about her views of the social conditions prevailing at that time, particularly the condition of native Indonesian women. Most of her letters protest the Javanese cultural tendency to impose obstacles on women's development. She wanted women to have the freedom to learn and study. R.A. Kartini wrote of her ideas and ambitions, including \"Zelf-ontwikkeling, Zelf-onderricht, Zelf-vertrouwen, Zelf-werkzaamheid\" and \"Solidariteit\". These ideas were all based on \"Religieusiteit, Wijsheid, en Schoonheid\", that is, belief in God, wisdom, and beauty, along with \"Humanitarianismus\" (humanitarianism) and \"Nationalismus' (nationalism).\n\nKartini's letters also expressed her hopes for support from overseas. In her correspondence with Estell \"Stella\" Zeehandelaar, R.A. Kartini expressed her desire to be like European youth. She depicted the sufferings of Javanese women fettered by tradition, unable to study, secluded, and who must be prepared to participate in polygamous marriages with men they don't know.\n\nIt is known from her letters dated October 1902 to Abendanon and her husband that at the age of 23, Raden Adjeng Kartini had a mind to live a vegetarian life. \"It has been for some time that we are thinking to do it (to be a vegetarian), I have even eaten only vegetables for years now, but I still don't have enough moral courage to carry on. I am still too young,\" R.A. Kartini once wrote.\n\nShe also emphasized the relationship of this kind of life with religious thoughts. She is quoted, \"Living a life as a vegetarian is a wordless prayer to the Almighty.\"\n\nR.A. Kartini loved her father deeply, although it is clear that her deep affection for him became yet another obstacle to the realization of her ambitions. He was progressive enough to allow his daughters schooling until the age of twelve, but at that point firmly closed the door to further schooling. In his letters, her father also expressed his affection for Kartini. Eventually, he gave permission for her to study to become a teacher in Batavia (now Jakarta), although previously he had prevented her from continuing her studies in the Netherlands or entering medical school in Batavia.\n\nR.A. Kartini's desire to continue her studies in Europe was also expressed in her letters. Several of her pen friends worked on her behalf to support Kartini in this endeavour. Many of her friends expressed their disappointment when Kartini's ambition was finally thwarted. In the end, her plans to study in Japan were changed into plans to journey to Tokyo, on the advice of Mrs. Abendanon that this would be best for R.A. Kartini and her younger sister, R. Ayu Rukmini.\n\nNevertheless, in 1903 at the age of 24, her plans to study to become a teacher in Tokyo came to nothing. In a letter to Mrs. Abendanon, R.A. Kartini wrote that the plan had been abandoned because she was going to be married: \"\"In short, I no longer desire to take advantage of this opportunity, because I am to be married.\"\". This was despite the fact that, for its part, the Dutch Education Department had finally given permission for R.A. Kartini and R.Ay. Rukmini to study in Batavia.\n\nAs the wedding approached, R.A. Kartini's attitude towards Javanese traditional customs began to change. She became more tolerant. She began to feel that her marriage would bring good fortune for her ambition to develop a school for native women. In her letters, she mentioned that not only did her esteemed husband support her desire to develop the woodcarving industry in Jepara and the school for native women, but she also mentioned that she was going to write a book. Sadly, this ambition was unrealized as a result of her premature death in 1904 at age 25.\n\nKartini Schools named for her opened in Bogor, Jakarta, and Malang. A society named for her was also established in the Netherlands.\n\nSukarno's Old Order state declared 21 April as Kartini Day to remind women that they should participate in \"the hegemonic state discourse of \"pembangunan\" (development)\". After 1965, however, Suharto's New Order state reconfigured the image of Kartini from that of radical women's emancipator to one that portrayed her as dutiful wife and obedient daughter, \"as only a woman dressed in a kebaya who can cook.\" On that occasion, popularly known as Hari Ibu Kartini or Mother Kartini Day, \"young girls were to wear tight, fitted jackets, batik shirts, elaborate hairstyles, and ornate jewelry to school, supposedly replicating Kartini's attire but in reality wearing an invented and more constricting ensemble than she ever did.\"\n\nThe melody of \"Ibu Kita Kartini\" (Our Mother Kartini) by W.R. Supratman:\n<score lang=\"ABC\" vorbis=\"1\" midi=\"1\">\nX:173\nL:1/4\nM:4/4\nK:C\nQ:1/4=120\nC3/2D/2EF|G3/2E/2C2|A3/2c/2BA|G3|\\\nF3/2A/2GF|E2C2|D3/2F/2ED|C3|\\\nF3/2E/2FA|G/2A/2G/2E/2CE|DEFG|E3|\\\nF3/2E/2FA|G/2A/2G/2E/2CE|DFB,D|C3|\n</score>\n\nOn April 21, 2016, Google celebrated her 137th birthday with a Google Doodle.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239965", "title": "List of country and regional avifaunas", "text": "List of country and regional avifaunas\n\nThe following is a list of avifauna books for countries and regions of the world, including authoritative field guides.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239967", "title": "Friedrich Christoph von Saldern", "text": "Friedrich Christoph von Saldern\n\nFriedrich Christoph von Saldern (2 January 1719 – 14 March 1785) was a Prussian general and military writer. He proved his organizational mettle with the battlefield clean up after Liegnitz in 1760. At the Battle of Torgau he proved his tactical and command mettle in the assault Austrian lines, which changed the course of the battle. His refusal to sack Hubertusburg in 1763 led to his resignation from the army. Despite retirement from command, however, Frederick the Great promoted him to lieutenant general and made him inspector of troops. Saldern wrote at least two missives on infantry tactics. He received the Order Pour le Mérite and the Order of the Black Eagle; in 1851, his name was included on the Equestrian statue of Frederick the Great.\n\nSaldern was born in the Prignitz into a family of the old Lower Saxon nobility Friedrich Christoph Saldern comes from the old Lower Saxon noble family of Saldern. At his birth in 1719 his father Otto Ludolph von Saldern (26 June 1686 – 5 April 1753) was battalion commander of Kolberg; his mother was Lucrezia Tugendreich von Holtzendorf (1700–1728). After her death his father married Sophie Wilhemine von Sack (1709–1780), the daughter of the commander of Kolberg, Siegmund von Sack.\n\nSaldern married three times, first on 1 June 1748 to Sophie Antoinette Katharina von Tettau (1720–1759), a lady in waiting for Queen Elizabeth Christine and daughter of Lieutenant Colonel Carl von Tettau, second, to Wilhelmine von Borcke (6 April 1742, Kassel – 15 May 1766, Potsdam, at age 24) on 5 January 1763; after her death, third, he married in 1767 her sister, Helene Bernhardine von Borcke (1743–1831, Berlin). He had two children who predeceased him.\n\nHe entered the Prussian Army in 1735 in Stettin. Due to his height, he was transferred to the Guards in 1739. When this regiment was dissolved after Frederick II ascension, he was transferred to the second battalion of the new guard regiment as a first lieutenant.\n\nFrederick William died in May 1740 and his son, Frederick II declined to endorse the Pragmatic Sanction. This opened the way for rapid promotions. By the end of 1740, with the death of Charles VI, Holy Roman Emperor, Prussia and Austria were at war over Maria Theresa's succession. With the outbreak of war with Austria, he remained with the king as an \"aides-de-camp\", he was the first to discover the approach of Neipperg's Austrians, preliminary to the Battle of Mollwitz.\n\nHe commanded a guard battalion at the Battle of Leuthen, again distinguished himself at the Battle of Hochkirch and was promoted major-general. In 1760 at Liegnitz Frederick gave him four hours in which to collect, arrange and dispatch the spoils of the battle, 6000 prisoners, 100 wagons, 82 guns and 5000 muskets. His complete success marked him as efficient, even in Frederick's army. At the Battle of Torgau, Saldern and von Möllendorf converted a lost battle into a great victory by their desperate assault on the Siptitz Heights with skillful manoeuvring and iron resolution. After Torgau, Saldern was acclaimed as one of the \"completest general of infantry alive\" by Thomas Carlyle. Subsequently, Frederick claimed that Saldern had brains and heart, by which he meant courage.\n\nIn the following winter, however, being ordered by Frederick to sack Hubertusburg, Saldern refused on the ground of conscience. The king pressed him, saying that he himself could take the contents of the palace for himself. The king continued to push him, and Saldern refused. The king finally dismissed him, saying, \"He will not be rich,\" and gave up the task to Colonel Quintus-Icilius. Saldern retired, but Frederick was well aware that he needed Saldern's experience and organizing ability, and after the peace the general was at once made inspector of the troops at Magdeburg. In 1766 he became lieutenant-general.\n\nSaldern spent the remainder of his life studying military sciences, in which he became a pedant. In one of his works he discussed at great length the question of the proper cadence for the infantry: was it 75 paces per minute, or 76? The \"Saldern-tactics\" proliferated in the Prussian military following Frederick's death, and contributed powerfully to the disaster of Jena in 1806. His works included \"Taktik der Infanterie\" (Dresden, 1784) and \"Taktische Grundsatze\" (Dresden, 1786), and were the basis of the British \"Dundas\" drill-book.\n\nSaldern received the Order Pour le Mérite and the Order of the Black Eagle; in 1851, his name was included on the Equestrian statue of Frederick the Great.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239970", "title": "Incoming (1998 video game)", "text": "Incoming (1998 video game)\n\nIncoming is a 3D shooter video game developed by Rage Software and published by Interplay. The game was first released for Microsoft Windows in late 1998, and was followed by a Sega Dreamcast version, which was released in Japan on December 17, 1998, in Europe on October 14, 1999, and in North America on November 30, 1999. Set in the near-future of 2009, the game primarily revolves around controlling vehicles and turrets to fight alien invaders of Earth in one of the campaign modes, the arcade mode, and with or against another player. Some levels include brief real-time strategy segments.\n\nPraised for its then-advanced graphics and sound, the game was generally well-received on the PC, though the critical response was less positive for the Dreamcast version. A sequel entitled \"Incoming Forces\" was released in 2002 exclusively for the PC. An arcade version of the game, utilising a unique hardware interface, was released in 2003.\n\nPrimarily a vehicle simulation game, the player controls one of a number of possible vehicles in order to complete objectives. The vehicle used could be an aerial craft, defence emplacement, or surface craft, and is usually armed with a primary weapon (with infinite ammunition) and sometimes secondary weapons (with either a limited or infinite supply). \"Incoming\" was also noted for its arcade style; in particular, the logging of high scores and a \"life\" system.\n\nThere are three different game modes. The campaign mode follows the main storyline in which the player must complete a series of objectives to neutralise the alien threat. Typical goals include transporting cargo and defending allied convoys. Two variants of the campaign exist: \"campaign action\" purely consists of the simulation missions; \"campaign tactics\" features the same main missions as campaign action, but with some extra sub-missions. These sub-missions take place in the \"tactical display\", where the player controls several vehicles and gun emplacements in a similar manner to real-time strategy games.\n\nEither campaign consists of ten missions (referred to as \"phases\" in the game) in each of the six locations. These locations can also be accessed in the arcade mode. This mode sees the player fight off alien craft while picking up as many \"power-ups\" (items which confer some advantage upon the player, such as temporary invulnerability and upgraded weaponry) as is possible. The same mechanics apply to the multiplayer mode, with some slight variations depending on the game type selected. Multiplayer is available in split-screen mode on both platforms in addition to networking and Internet options on the PC version.\n\nAcknowledged by critics for having a simple storyline, \"Incoming\" is set in 2009 over a period of fifteen days. An increasing number of UFO sightings culminate in attacks on the international lunar base and other locations on Earth; and the construction of a base in the Arctic. Secret work is started on an \"ADATA\" (Anomaly Detection And Tracking Array) near Mount Kilimanjaro. The events of the game take place after an attack on the ADATA facility is initiated by alien forces.\n\nThe game is set in six locations: Kenya, defending the ADATA facility; the Arctic, attacking an alien base while defending a human one; the North Atlantic Ocean, where the player must defend oil rigs and attack a second alien base; California, where parts of a fleet to invade the alien's moon base must be defended; the Moon, attacking a further alien base; and a planet in the Crab Nebula, assaulting the planet from which the alien attackers came.\n\nIf the player has completed these in the Campaign Action mode, then in addition to these ten missions in each location, there are bonus \"virus\" scenarios, with one level in each location. Shortly before these missions, the aliens launched four virus bombs which impacted in the four location on Earth the player had previously visited. All buildings in these areas must be destroyed by the player to prevent the virus from spreading further. \n\nRage Software, developers of \"Incoming\", were known for their cutting-edge graphics and effects. The game utilized the 3dfx technology, and was included in some retail versions of the Voodoo2 graphics card. An arcade version followed in 2003, running on the Vortek V3 Global VR arcade board, utilising the system's unique virtual reality hardware interface.\n\nThe Windows version of \"Incoming\" was generally well-received. In particular, the explosions, similar special effects and cut scenes using the main game engine were noted for their quality. The Dolby Surround-encoded sound was a further source of acclaim. British magazine \"PC Zone\" described it as \"bloody good,\" with \"some modest simulation elements.\" The magazine praised the setting of the game, commenting: \"a refreshing change from the deep space of most futuristic combat sims, and something which definitely has a positive effect on gameplay.\" The review concluded by saying that \"it's as fun as it looks. Just for once, all those people who don't read reviews and buy games purely on the strength of pretty pictures on the packaging are gonna find themselves playing a very, very enjoyable game.\" \"Edge\" highlighted the game's efficient gameplay mechanics, stating that designers \"managed to produce something more than a lightshow, taking care to fine-tune a design that, if not exactly original, at least does its thing with flair and solid understanding of gameplay.\"\n\n\"Next Generation\" reviewed the Windows version and stated that \"The amount of varied units and different settings give \"Incoming\" the commendable originality and replay value that make it a title worth checking out.\"\n\nThough considering the game \"pretty darn tough,\" IGN praised the game's variety and length. It also praised the sound and graphics, though the latter was a source of criticism: \"\"Incoming\"'s got it all... but it all comes at a high price: getting this game to run on our PCs was one big pain in the butt.\" Despite calling it \"an outstanding-looking and great playing game,\" IGN only gave the game a \"decent\" review score because of the system problems. Conversely, GameSpot's review noted none of these hardware issues, praising the visuals as \"some of the finest... of any action game\". The reviewer, however, described the game design as \"strong yet slightly flawed... [it] definitely pulls you in, but leaves a little to be desired as far as keeping you there,\" complaining that \"what [the developer] have presented gets tiresome quickly.\" The publication summarised the game as \"a fine game and a definite must-have for arcade fans... What it lacks is a realization that computer games have moved beyond this simplistic style of gameplay.\"\n\nThe reception, however, was less positive when the game was ported to the Dreamcast. A release title for Sega's console, \"IGN\" complained that the graphics were not top-of-the-range at the time of its late 1999 release, with the draw distance being cited as a specific hindrance on gameplay. \"IGN\" also said that, although the game \"is lacking in many areas, there's more than enough here for the hardcore shooting fans out there to have their requisite blast of shooting action.\" Though criticizing the graphics' ability to \"get in the way at times,\" the \"very vague\" mission briefings and the \"odd flying model for the planes,\" the reviewer conceded that \"if you're a hardcore shooting fan, and you're looking for a good challenge, you'll probably want to look into \"Incoming\".\" PlanetDreamcast's review was harsher, describing the plot as \"the same recycled garbage used in tons of other games of this type,\" the multiplayer split screen mode as \"lame\" and the objectives as \"mundane.\" The reviewer also noted graphical issues, clipping problems and poor controls. Though dismissing the graphics as \"a bit dated,\" the reviewer did acknowledge the \"nifty special effects\" and admitted that \"\"Incoming\" may be worth a rental... [it] is only slightly better than mediocre.\" In a rare positive review for the Dreamcast version, \"Game Vortex\" described the visuals as \"some of the most breathtaking visuals you'll find in any game.\" Though describing the multiplayer as \"fun\", it considered \"by far, the best [mode to be] Campaign mode.\" The review concluded by describing the game as \"lots of fun and highly recommended.\" In Japan, where said console version was released under the name , \"Famitsu\" gave it a score of 27 out of 40.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239980", "title": "Battle of Matewan", "text": "Battle of Matewan\n\nThe Battle of Matewan (also known as the Matewan massacre) was a shootout in the town of Matewan in Mingo County and the Pocahontas Coalfield mining district, in southern West Virginia. It occurred on May 19, 1920 between local coal miners and the Baldwin–Felts Detective Agency.\n\nA contingent of the Baldwin-Felts Detective Agency arrived on the No. 29 morning train to evict families that had been living at the Stone Mountain Coal Camp just on the outskirts of town. The detectives carried out several evictions before they ate dinner at the Urias Hotel and, upon finishing, they walked toward the train depot to catch the five o'clock train back to Bluefield, West Virginia. While the detectives made their way to the train depot, they were intercepted by Matewan Chief of Police Sid Hatfield, who claimed to have arrest warrants from the Mingo County sheriff. Hatfield, a native of the Tug River Valley, was a supporter of the miners' attempts to organize the UMWA in the southern coalfields of West Virginia. Detective Albert Felts and his brother Lee Felts then produced their own warrant for Sid Hatfield's arrest. Upon inspection, Matewan mayor Cabell Testerman claimed it was fraudulent.\n\nUnbeknownst to the detectives, they had been surrounded by armed miners, who watched intently from the windows, doorways, and roofs of the businesses that lined Mate Street. Stories vary as to who actually fired the first shot. On the porch of the Chambers Hardware Store began the clash that became known as the Matewan massacre, or the Battle of Matewan. The ensuing gun battle left seven detectives and three townspeople dead, including the Felts brothers and Testerman. The battle was hailed by miners and their supporters for the number of casualties inflicted on the Baldwin-Felts detectives. This tragedy, along with events such as the Ludlow massacre in Colorado six years earlier, marked an important turning point in the battle for miners' rights.\n\nAt the time, the United Mine Workers of America had just elected John L. Lewis as their president. During this period, miners worked long hours in unsafe and dismal working conditions, while being paid low wages. Adding to the hardship was the use of coal scrip by the Stone Mountain Coal Company, because the scrip could only be used for those goods the company sold through their company stores. A few months before the battle at Matewan, union miners in other parts of the country went on strike, receiving a full 27 percent pay increase for their efforts. Lewis recognized that the area was ripe for change, and planned to organize the coal fields of southern Appalachia. The union sent its top organizers, including the famous Mary Harris \"Mother\" Jones. Roughly 3000 men signed the union's roster in the Spring of 1920. They signed their union cards at the community church, something that they knew could cost them their jobs, and in many cases their homes. The coal companies controlled many aspects of the miners' lives. Stone Mountain Coal Corporation fought back with mass firings, harassment, and evictions.\n\nMatewan, founded in 1895, was a small independent town with only a few elected officials. The mayor at the time was Cabell Testerman, and the chief of police was Sid Hatfield. Both refused to succumb to the company's plans, and sided with the miners. In turn, the Stone Mountain Coal Corporation hired their own enforcers, the Baldwin-Felts Detective Agency, dubbed the \"Baldwin Thugs\" by the miners. The coal operators hired them to evict the miners and their families from the company owned houses. As a result, hundreds of miner families spent that spring in tents.\n\nOn the day of the fight, a group of the Baldwin-Felts enforcers arrived to evict families living at the mountain coal camp, just outside Matewan. The sheriff and his deputy, Fred Burgraff, sensed trouble and met the Baldwin-Felts detectives at the train station. News of the evictions soon spread around the town. When Sid Hatfield approached Felts, Felts served a warrant on Hatfield, which had been issued by Squire R. M. Stafford, a Justice of the Peace of Magnolia District, Mingo County, West Virginia, for the arrest of Hatfield, Bas Ball, Tony Webb and others, which warrant was directed to Albert C. Felts for execution. The warrant turned out to be fraudulent. Burgraff's son reported that the detectives had sub-machine guns with them in their suitcases. Hatfield, Burgraff, and Mayor Cabell Testerman met with the detectives on the porch of the Chambers Hardware Store. It is still unknown whether it was Hatfield or the leading detective, Albert Felts, who shot Testerman first, though what followed was Hatfield shooting Felts. Later Thomas Felts (brother of Albert and Lee Felts who died in the battle) and the Baldwin-Felts spy Charles Lively spread rumors that Sid shot Testerman because he had feelings for his wife. The rumors were never confirmed, although he did marry her after Testerman's death. After the detective and mayor fell wounded, Sid kept firing, but Felts escaped. He took shelter in the Matewan Post Office, and Hatfield eventually found him there and shot him. When the shooting finally stopped, the townspeople came out, many wounded. There were casualties on both sides. Seven Baldwin-Felts detectives were killed, including Albert and Lee Felts. One more detective had been wounded. Two miners were killed: Bob Mullins, who had just been fired for joining the union, and Tot Tinsley, an unarmed bystander. The wounded mayor was dying, and four other bystanders had been wounded.\n\nGovernor John J. Cornwell ordered the state police force to take control of Matewan. Hatfield and his men cooperated, and stacked their arms inside the hardware store. The miners, encouraged by their success in getting the Baldwin-Felts detectives out of Matewan, improved their efforts to organize.\n\nOn July 1 the miners' union went on another strike, and widespread violence erupted. Railroad cars were blown up, and strikers were beaten and left to die by the side of the road.\n\nTom Felts, the last remaining Felts brother, sent undercover operatives to collect evidence to convict Sid Hatfield and his men. When the charges against Hatfield and 22 others for the murder of Albert Felts were dismissed, Baldwin-Felts detectives assassinated Hatfield and his deputy Ed Chambers on August 1, 1921, on the steps of the McDowell County courthouse located in Welch, West Virginia. Of those defendants whose charges were not dismissed, all were acquitted.\n\nLess than a month later, miners from the state gathered in Charleston. They were even more determined to organize the southern coal fields, and began the march to Logan County. Thousands of miners joined them along the way, culminating in what was to become known as the Battle of Blair Mountain. \nThe Matewan Historic District was added to the National Register of Historic Places on April 27, 1993.\n\nThe Matewan massacre is interpreted by the State of West Virginia through a Historic Highway marker produced by the West Virginia Division of Culture and History. It is located off Main Street in Matewan.\n\nThe marker reads:\nMATEWAN MASSACRE. In 1920 area miners went on strike to gain recognition of UMWA. On May 19 of the same year, twelve Baldwin-Felts Agency guards came from Bluefield to evict the miners from company houses. As guards left town, they argued with town police chief Sid Hatfield and Mayor Testerman. Shooting of undetermined origins resulted in the deaths of two coal miners, seven agents, and the mayor. None of the 19 men indicted were convicted.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2239983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239983", "title": "240-Robert", "text": "240-Robert\n\n240-Robert is an American drama series that ran on ABC from August 28, 1979 to March 21, 1981. The series title is a reference to the call-sign designation for the Los Angeles Sheriff's Department's search and rescue/paramedic teams.\n\nThe series chronicles the missions of \"240-Robert\", a specialized unit of the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department (LASD), that utilized four wheel drive vehicles and a helicopter. Most of the assignments were sea/air/land search and rescue operations in the extensive (over jurisdiction. The show's creator was Rick Rosner (himself an LASD reserve deputy), who created the hit series \"CHiPs\" two years earlier for NBC.\n\nThe vehicles used at that time were 1979 Ford Broncos, while the helicopter was a Hughes HA-500C (similar in design to the current MD 500).\n\nThe series was based on real life cases encountered by the LASD's Emergency Services Detail. The real life ESD is actually headquartered in East Los Angeles. Rick Rosner took artistic liberty and portrayed the headquarters as a beach-side station. The actual filming location was at a State of California ranger station located at Sycamore Cove in Ventura County, California. The series was inspired, in part, on the experiences of Officer Charles Thibaudeau of the Hermosa Beach Police Department.\n\n\nCassidy and Hensley both had an expert helicopter pilot take over for them in the actual helicopter flight sequences; this regular stunt pilot was Charles 'Chuck' Tamburro who wore a wig to give the appearance of a female pilot.\n\nHarmon and Cassidy left the series when their contracts expired after the first season. Burns and Hensley were brought in to replace them, but the second season (returning mid-season in early 1981 due to an actor's strike) only lasted three episodes before ABC cancelled it due to poor ratings.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239997", "title": "Lucian Perkins", "text": "Lucian Perkins\n\nLucian Perkins is an American photojournalist, who is best known for covering a number of conflicts with profound compassion for his photograph's subjects, including the war in Afghanistan, Kosovo and the 1991 Persian Gulf War. It has been said that Perkins has a developed style that not only portrays the hopes and weaknesses of the people in his photographs but in an unconventional manner. Perkins currently works at\" The Washington Post\", where he has worked for the past 30 years and resides in Washington, D.C.\n\nLucian Perkins first began experimenting with photojournalism during his time at the University of Texas. In 1976, Perkins graduated with a degree in biology, only to go back to school to earn his teaching degree. It was when he returned, that Perkins discovered a new career interest. After attending a UT exposition workshop on photography, Perkins began exploring photojournalism. He worked for both the Cactus yearbook as well as the student newspaper, \"The Daily Texan\". There he studied photography with the well acclaimed Garry Winogrand. Perkins has additionally acknowledged the UT photojournalism class that he took during his time there, as a strong influence in directing him to photojournalism.\n\nIn 1979, shortly after working for \"The Daily Texan\", Perkins went on to an internship with \"The Washington Post\" where he was a staff photographer for 27 years. Perkins was first initially given the job due to a series he shot in his free time on the first class of female \"middies\" at the Naval Academy. Once coming on to the paper, Perkins developed a passion for his job in covering extravagant international events. These include the Palestinian revolution, both the Iraq and Afghanistan wars, as well as wars in what was the former Yugoslavia. As well as international, Perkins has documented many local and national events all over the United States. Recently, Perkins has carried on and worked closely with the \"Post's\" online version of the paper. He has produced some of the website's first multimedia and interactive projects including the Siberia and Finland Diaries. Presently Perkins is working as both an independent photographer and videographer, concentrating on interactive media assignments and video documentaries as well as continuing documenting in photographic form.\n\nThe first recognized award Perkins received was the \"Newspaper Photographer of the Year\" by the National Press Photographers Association in 1994. This was given for a portfolio that included photographic projects in Russia as well as several images from New York City fashion shows. A year later, in 1995, Perkins and fellow \"Post\" reporter Leon Dash were presented a Pulitzer Prize in the category Explanatory Journalism for their four-year investigation of the consequences of poverty, illiteracy, crime and drug abuse had on a three generation family living in the District of Columbia. In 1996, Perkins won the World Press Photo of the year award for his well-known photograph of a young boy looking out a window on a bus full of refugees, leaving Chechnya, Russia. In describing the image, The World Press Photo association said \"The boy's expression mirrored all that Perkins had experienced and seen himself, and leaning out of his car, he attempted to steady his camera, focus and shoot. He says he knew this was a special image, mostly because of the symbolic meaning it had for him, but it was not an image he believed would win a contest.\" Five years later, Perkins once again shared a second Pulitzer Prize in 2000 in the category Feature Photography with fellow \"Post\" photographers Carol Guzy and Michael Williamson. They were awarded for their heartbreaking photos illustrating the plight of Kosovo refugees.\n\nIn 1995, Lucian Perkins co-founded InterFoto, an international photojournalism conference located in Moscow with free-lance photographer Bill Swersey. InterFoto was the biggest professional photography exposition in Russia, the Baltic States and CIS countries from 1994 to 2004. The conference explored the Russian photographic community, uniting local, regional and international societies of photographers, photography editors, curators, and industrial leaders to swap ideas, share and educate others on the art of professional photography. In 1996 Perkins and Leon Dash published a book illustrating their Pulitzer Prize–winning investigation titled \"Rosa Lee : A Mother and Her Family in Urban America\". In 1998, Perkins published his next book \"Runaway Madness\", and had it exhibited nationally. The book has over 100 images of a behind-the-scenes story of a popular New York fashion event. Perkins photographed models Kate Moss, Naomi Campbell, Shalom Harlow, Christy Turlington and more behind the curtain. Perkins also photographed fashion journalists, fashion editors and buyers as well as the audience. Later, Perkins curated the book and founded the exhibit, \"Chronicles of Change\", which held many Russian photography. Perkins first went to Russia in 1988 to cover a summit between Ronald Reagan and Mikhail Gorbachev but ended up spending over a month in the country. Later he went back in 1993 and spent much time with a number of Russian photographers during his six-month visit, which led him to \"Chronicles of Change\".\n\nPerkins has had work displayed in museums both in and outside the United States. Internationally, these places would include: World Press Museum in Amsterdam, The ART in Embassies Program in Sarajevo, Bosnia, Havana, Cuba, Tokyo, Japan and Ankara, Turkey. In the United States, Perkins has work displayed in The Southeast Museum of Photography in Daytona Beach, Newseum in Washington DC, San Francisco and New York City. He also has exhibits in The American Textile History Museum in Lowell Massachusetts, The Boca Raton Museum of Art in Florida and The Flint Institute of Arts in Flint, Michigan.\n"}
{"id": "2240010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2240010", "title": "Nephritic syndrome", "text": "Nephritic syndrome\n\nNephritic syndrome is a syndrome comprising signs of nephritis, which is kidney disease involving inflammation. It often occurs in the glomerulus, where it is called glomerulonephritis. Glomerulonephritis is characterized by inflammation and thinning of the glomerular basement membrane and the occurrence of small pores in the podocytes of the glomerulus. These pores become large enough to permit both proteins and red blood cells to pass into the urine (yielding proteinuria and hematuria, respectively). By contrast, nephrotic syndrome is characterized by proteinuria and a constellation of other symptoms that specifically do not include hematuria. Nephritic syndrome, like nephrotic syndrome, may involve low level of albumin in the blood due to the protein albumin moving from the blood to the urine.\n\nHistorically, nephritic syndrome has been characterized by blood in the urine (hematuria), high blood pressure (hypertension), decreased urine output <400 mL/d (oliguria), red blood cell casts, pyuria, and mild to moderate proteinuria. If the condition is allowed to progress without treatment, it can eventually lead to azotemia and uremic symptoms. This constellation of symptoms contrasts with the classical presentation of nephrotic syndrome (excessive proteinuria >3.5 g/d, low plasma albumin levels (hypoalbuminemia) <3 g/L, generalized edema, and hyperlipidemia).\n\nSigns and symptoms that are consistent with nephritic syndrome include:\n\nNephritic syndrome is caused by extensive inflammatory damage to the glomerulus capillaries, which is associated with a variety of medical conditions that we will discuss. Furthermore, the cause of this inflammation can be infectious, autoimmune, or thrombotic. The causative conditions can be divided conveniently between age groups as follows, though it is important to note that many of the conditions listed in children/adolescents can also occur in adults with lower frequency, and vice versa:\n\n\n\nThe pathophysiology of nephritic syndrome is dependent on the underlying disease process, which can vary depending on what condition the nephritic syndrome is secondary to. More specifically, different diseases (many of which are mentioned above in the Causes section) affect different segments of the glomerulus and cause disease-specific segments of the glomerulus to become inflamed. Most often, it is dependent on what part of the glomerulus is damaged by antibody-antigen complex (immune complex) deposition. In all cases, however, the inflammatory processes in the glomerulus cause the capillaries to swell and the pores between podocytes become large enough that inappropriate contents in the blood plasma (i.e. red blood cells, protein, etc) will begin to spill into the urine. This causes a decrease in glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and, if left untreated over time, will eventually produce uremic symptoms and retention of sodium and water in the body, leading to both edema and hypertension.\n\nThe diagnostic approach to nephritic syndrome includes evaluating the patient for any suspected underlying pathology that could cause a nephritic syndrome.\n\nIf the person in the office is being examined by a physician, some physical exam findings consistent with nephritic syndrome include the following:\n\nIf the physician is suspicious of a possible nephritic syndrome, then he/she may order some common lab tests including:\n\nIf nephritic syndrome is identified and diagnosed, then it is important for the physician to determine the underlying cause. To do this, he/she may order any of a large variety of relevant lab tests, some of which are included here:\n\nA kidney biopsy will provide a fully definitive diagnosis of nephritic syndrome and may also reveal the underlying cause of the nephritic syndrome depending on the underlying pathological process. On biopsy, a patient with nephritic syndrome would show inflammation of numerous glomeruli.\n\nWhen a patient is confirmed to have nephritic syndrome, the main goal of treatment (regardless of the underlying cause) is to control elevated blood pressures and reduce active inflammation in the kidney itself. Most often, the patient will need to be admitted to the hospital for close monitoring to ensure the efficacy of treatment and make adjustments as needed. Some treatment modalities commonly used to meet these goals include:\n\nOnce the acute phase of the nephritic syndrome is controlled, it is crucial to determine the underlying pathology that caused the onset of the acute nephritic syndrome and to treat that condition. If the underlying cause is not determined and treated appropriately, it increases the risk of a recurrence of nephritic syndrome or chronic kidney disease (CKD) in the future.\n\nBecause nephritic syndrome is a syndrome and not a disease, the prognosis depends on the underlying cause. Generally, the prognosis of nephritic syndrome in children is better than it is in adults.\n\nAccording to the CDC, nephritis/nephrosis/nephritic syndrome was the 9th leading cause of death in the United States in 2017. It was listed as the cause of death for 50,633 out of the total 2,813,503 deaths reported in 2017.\n\nThe southeast region of the United States reported a significantly higher death rate due to kidney disease than any other region in 2017. Mississippi reported the highest death rate due to kidney disease (21.7), followed by Louisiana (20.6) and Arkansas (19.7). Although Vermont reported the lowest death rate due to kidney disease (3.3), the western United States reported the lowest regional average death rate due to kidney disease in 2017.\n\nOut of the 1,374,392 female deaths reported in the US in 2017, kidney disease was listed as the cause of death for 24,889 women and was reported as the 9th overall cause of death for women in 2017.\n\nOut of the 1,439,111 male deaths reported in the US in 2017, kidney disease was not listed in the top 10 causes of death.\n\nOut of the 2,378,385 deaths reported in individuals who identified as White, kidney disease was ranked 10th overall (39,105 deaths) in causes of death in the US in 2017.\n\nOut of the 340,644 deaths reported in individuals who identified as Black or African American, kidney disease was ranked 8th overall (9,609 deaths) in causes of death in the US in 2017.\n\nOut of the 74,094 deaths reported in individuals who identified as Asian or Pacific Islander, kidney disease was ranked 9th overall (1,563 deaths) in causes of death in the US in 2017.\n\nOut of the 197,249 deaths reported in individuals who identified as Hispanic or Latino, kidney disease was ranked 10th overall (3,928 deaths) in causes of death in the US 2017.\nIn a review of Romanian cases, a 10 year review yielded that upon biopsy, nephritic syndrome was the second most common clinical syndrome at 21.9% (nephrotic syndrome was 52.3%)\n\n"}
{"id": "2240023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2240023", "title": "William Fife", "text": "William Fife\n\nWilliam Fife Jr. (15 June 1857 – 11 August 1944), also known as William Fife III, was the third generation of a family of Scottish yacht designers and builders. In his time, William Fife designed around 600 yachts, including two contenders for the America's Cup. The Royal Yachting Association was formed in 1875 to standardise rules, and Fife and his rival G.L. Watson, were instrumental in these rule changes. Around one third of Fife's yachts still exist. His last designs were built in 1938.\n\nFife was born in Fairlie, North Ayrshire on the Firth of Clyde. His father William Fife Sr. (1821–1902) and grandfather William Fyfe (1785–1865) had also been designers and boat builders in Fairlie. The family business operated from a shipyard on the beach in the village. Fife began building yachts in 1890 and soon surpassed the achievements of his father and grandfather and became known as one of the premier yacht designers of the day.\n\nAs the third generation of a venerable Scottish boat building family, William Fife inherited a rich legacy but was quick to establish his own reputation as one of the top designers in the yachting world. Often dominating his chief competitors, Fife was a master of his trade who received commissions from European royalty and from clients as far away as Australia. Following on the heels of the success of his design \"Dragon\" (1888), Fife adopted a stylized Chinese dragon as his trademark. Thereafter, those yachts that took shape on the shingle at Fairlie were known throughout the yachting world by this distinctive scrollwork.\n\nFife designed two America's Cup yachts for grocery and tea magnate Sir Thomas Lipton who challenged for the cup a total of five times. The Fife-designed challenger \"Shamrock I\" (1899) lost to \"Columbia\" (Nathanael Greene Herreshoff, 1899) and \"Shamrock III\" (1903) lost to \"Reliance\". After the establishment of the first International Rule in 1906, Fife became a prolific designer of metre boats, designing and building several successful 15-Metre and 19-Metre yachts in the years leading up to the Great War. Between 1907 and 1913, William Fife Jr. designed eight of the twenty 15mR yachts ever built, but his first 15mR named \"Shimna\" was not built at his famous Fairlie boatyard, but by Alexander Robertson and Sons Ltd (Yachtbuilders), because all Fife's principal yacht builders were needed to work on Myles Kennedy's new 23mR, \"White Heather II\".\n\nFife died on 11 August 1944 at the age of 87 in Fairlie, North Ayrshire. He never married or had children. He was buried in Largs. The yard was continued for some years after his death by his nephew, but never achieved the renown known under Fife's ownership.\n\nFrench yachtsman Éric Tabarly, two-time winner of the OSTAR and owner of the Fife design \"Pen Duick\" wrote:\n\nWhile Fife established a leading reputation on the yacht racing circuit, his work also included a number of fine cruising vessels. Dr. William Collier wrote of Fife's 1920s work:\n\nThe Fife yard also had a reputation for the extremely high quality of the craftsmanship of the yachts built at the yard. Today, it is thought that there are somewhat less than 100 Fife designs still in existence. Of these, there are around fifty still sailing, most notably:\n\nFife once said that the secret of a great yacht was that it should be both \"fast and bonnie\".\n\nHe was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire in the 1919 New Year Honours. In 2004, he was inducted into the America's Cup Hall of Fame.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2240026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2240026", "title": "AMX-10 RC", "text": "AMX-10 RC\n\nThe AMX-10 RC is a reconnaissance vehicle built by GIAT. Over 240 are in service in the French Army. In addition, 108 vehicles were sold to Morocco and 12 to Qatar. RC stands for \"Roues-Canon\", or wheeled gun.\n\nThe AMX-10 RC should not be confused with the AMX-10P; they share automotive components but otherwise have completely different battlefield roles. The AMX-10RC is usually used for reconnaissance missions in dangerous environments or for fire support.\n\nInitial work on the AMX-10RC began in 1970; prototypes testing began in 1976, and the first production vehicle was delivered in 1981 to the 2nd \"Regiment de Hussards\" in Sourdun. The vehicle features a powerful GIAT 105 mm gun mounted in a welded aluminium turret. The TK 105 turret also serves to house three crew members, while the driver sits in the front of the hull; the COTAC fire control system is provided for gun aiming. All six wheels are driven, and the AMX-10RC uses skid steering to turn the hull.\n\nThe AMX-10 RC initially used the Hispano-Suiza HS 115-2, multi-fuel, liquid-cooled, supercharged V8 engine rated at 250 hp at 3,200 RPM.\n\nIn 1985, the Baudouin 6F11 SRX supercharged diesel engine was selected to equip the last production AMX-10 RC vehicles as a production cut-in as well as for eventual retroﬁt to all AMX-10 RC vehicles of the French Army. This engine is rated at 300 hp, but governed at 280 hp at 3,000 RPM in the French army.\n\nNo matter which engine is ﬁtted, a 24 volt electrical system with six 12-volt/100-ampere-hour batteries is standard. Two waterjets, mounted on each side of the hull at the rear, are used for water propulsion.\n\nThe AMX-10 RC vehicles use an unspeciﬁed preselector gearbox with four forward and four reverse gear ratios. The clutch is electro-magnetically operated and the gearbox is fitted with a torque converter. A power take-off unit operates the two waterjets. The AMX-10 RC is skid steered and can perform pivot turn.\n\nThe 6x6 AMX-10 RC is ﬁtted with a hydropneumatic suspension system with variable ground clearance and tilt, provided by Messier Auto-Industry. A centralized lubrication and tire inflation system is fitted. A shock damper is mounted at each wheel station.\n\nThe AMX-10 RC is ﬁtted with a 105/47 F2 MECA 105 mm medium-pressure gun mounted in a GIAT Industries TK 105 three-man turret; the F2 cannon ﬁres 105×527R proprietary ammunition. The turret use a SAMM CH49 electrohydraulic gun control system, but no stabilization system is ﬁtted. An NF-1 7.62 mm machine gun is mounted coaxially to the main armament, and two electrically-operated smoke grenade launchers are mounted on each side of the turret. A total of 38 main gun rounds and 4,000 rounds of 7.62 mm ammunition and 16 smoke grenades are carried.\n\nThe F2 105 mm medium-pressure rifled gun fires four types of 105×527R ammunition: OFL 105 F3 APFSDS, OE 105 F3 HE, OCC 105 F3 HEAT-FS and the BSCC 105 F3 target practice round. The APFSDS, which uses the penetrator from the GIAT OFL 90 F1  mm APFSDS round, is capable of defeating a NATO single heavy tank target at a range of 1200 metres and the NATO triple heavy tank target at a range of 2200 metres.\n\nThe AMX-10 RC has been the recipient of numerous upgrades over its lifetime. The DIVT-13 LLTV was replaced by using DIVT-16, 18 and 19 CASTOR thermal sights taken from decommissioned AMX-30B2 MBTs. For its part in the 1991 Gulf War, the AMX-10 RC was provided with extra high-hardness steel add-on armour and EIREL infrared jammer. The original muzzle brake was replaced by an even more efficient one (10% recoil reduction) after the introduction of the OFL 105 F3 APFSDS in 1987. The flotation barrier and the water pump jets were removed (their intakes were sealed).\n\nThe AMX-10 RCR introduced a FINDERS C2R battlefield-management system. One improvement considered was the installation of the TML 105 modular light turret armed with a more powerful 105 mm G2 high-pressure gun, as the F2 gun was not compatible with NATO munitions, but this was ultimately not done. A central tire-inflation system is available for added traction over soft terrain. The AMX-10RC is equipped with an NBC (Nuclear/Biological/Chemical) protection system and may conduct reconnaissance in a radioactive environment.\n\nIn 2010, Nexter completed the modernisation of 256 AMX-10 RC vehicles to the RCR (\"Rénové\"; renovated) configuration, a programme that consisted of integrating various systems and additional armour, active self-protection by SAGEM, LIRE (\"Leurre InfRarougE\", infrared flare), the SIT (\"Système d'Information Terminal\") V1 battlefield management system, Galix smoke grenades launchers, changes in the NBC protection and improvements in the suspension, and the speed gearboxes and tactical communications completed with Thales Communications & Security PR4G VS4. The integration was done by DCMAT (\"Direction Centrale du Matériel de l'Armée de Terre\", Land Army Central Matèriel Directorate).\n\nThe AMX-10 RC is no longer in production and will be replaced by the EBRC Jaguar in French service.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2240034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2240034", "title": "Port Union, Ohio", "text": "Port Union, Ohio\n\nPort Union is an unincorporated community in western West Chester Township, Butler County, Ohio, United States on State Route 747 about three miles north of Springdale and three miles southeast of Hamilton. The town was laid out in 1827 by William Elliott alongside the turning basin for the Miami and Erie Canal and was about midway between Crescentville and Hamilton on the canal. It was originally known as McMaken's Bridge, but took the name its township. (West Chester Township was Union Township until 2000). The Cincinnati, Hamilton, and Dayton Railroad later laid tracks through Port Union.\n\nThe town possessed its own school district until the 1920s when it merged with the other districts in the township.\n\n"}
{"id": "2240051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2240051", "title": "Dolmuş", "text": "Dolmuş\n\nIn Turkey and Northern Cyprus, dolmuş () are share taxis that run set routes within and between cities.\n\nTheir name is derived from Turkish for \"seemingly stuffed\" referencing the fact that in days past these taxis were often filled to the brim. They depart from the terminal only when a sufficient number of passengers have boarded.\n\nIn some cities \"dolmuş\" are only allowed to board and disembark passengers at designated stops or at terminals; in less busy locations passengers may board anywhere along the route. In fact, a \"dolmuş\" with empty seats may slow to a crawl in the hopes of picking up a few more riders.\n\nA foreign passenger described the ride as being \"terrifying, awe-inspiring, confusing, incomprehensible, charming, hospitable and alien\", and those unfamiliar with them may be surprised by the speed of \"dolmuş\" travel.\n\nIn Turkey the vehicles used are often brand-new minibuses, but in some parts of Cyprus you can–as of 2009–still see aging Mercedes-Benz stretch limos serving as \"dolmuş\".\n\nIn Turkey the industry is regulated. Despite the meaning of their name, laws prevent these minibuses from becoming too crowded. In Turkish controlled Northern Cyprus, \"dolmuş\" routes are leased and vehicles are licensed.\n\n"}
{"id": "2240056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2240056", "title": "USWA Middleweight Championship", "text": "USWA Middleweight Championship\n\nThe USWA Middleweight Championship was a short-lived title in the United States Wrestling Association for the lighter wrestlers in 1993.\n"}
{"id": "2240066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2240066", "title": "Vertical draft", "text": "Vertical draft\n\nAn updraft is a small scale current of rising air, often within a cloud.\n\nLocalized regions of warm or cool air will exhibit vertical movement. A mass of warm air will typically be less dense than the surrounding region, and so will rise until it reaches air that is either warmer or less dense than itself. The converse will occur for a mass of cool air, and is known as subsidence. This movement of large volumes of air, especially when regions of hot, wet air rise, can create large clouds, and is the central source of thunderstorms. Drafts can also be conceived by low or high pressure regions. A low pressure region will attract air from the surrounding area, which will move towards the center and then rise, creating an updraft. A high pressure region will attract air from the surrounding area, which will move towards the center and sink, spawning a downdraft.\n\nUpdrafts and downdrafts, along with wind shear in general, are a major contributor to airplane crashes during takeoff and landing in a thunderstorm. Extreme cases, known as downbursts and microbursts can be deadly and difficult to predict or observe. The crash of Delta Air Lines Flight 191 on its final approach before landing at Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport in 1985 was presumably caused by a microburst, and prompted the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to research and deploy new storm detection radar stations at some of the major airports, notably the ones in the South, Midwest, and Northeast United States where wind shear affects air safety. Downbursts can cause extensive localized damage, similar to that caused by tornadoes. Downburst damage can be differentiated from that of a tornado because the resulting destruction is circular and radiates away from the center. Tornado damage radiates inward, towards the center of the damage.\n\nThe term downdraft can also refer to a type of backdraft which occurs through chimneys which have fireplaces on the lowermost levels (such as basements) of multi-level buildings. It involves cold air coming down the chimney due to low air pressure, and makes it hard to light fires, and can push soot and carbon monoxide into domiciles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2240078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2240078", "title": "Roy Anthony Bridge", "text": "Roy Anthony Bridge\n\nRoy Anthony (Tony) Bridge, O.B.E. (1921–2000) was a Jamaican member of the International Olympic Committee (\"IOC\").\n\nBridge was active in sport from 1947 until his death in 2000. He was appointed to the International Olympic Committee IOC in 1973, and was the eighth most senior member at the time of his death.\n\nBridge was born 4 February 1921, in Kingston, Jamaica. He attended Wolmer's School in Kingston. Upon graduation he joined the Jamaican Civil Service and eventually joined his father at Novelty Trading Company, which imported books and magazines into the island. He rose to the position of Managing Director.\n\nHis involvement in sport was wide-ranging and included terms as the vice president of the Jamaica Boxing Board of Control (1947–62), President of the Jamaica Amateur Athletic Association (1958–77), Vice President of the Jamaica Rifle Association (1960–62), first vocal of the Pan American Sports Organization (1971–75), and the Vice Chairman of the Commonwealth Games Federation (1974–1982).\n\nAlong with Sir Herbert Macdonald, Bridge was instrumental in organising the 1966 Commonwealth Games in Kingston, Jamaica. This led to his interest in the Olympics and his eventual election to the IOC in 1973 at the 74th session of the IOC in Varna, Bulgaria. At that meeting four new members of the IOC were elected: Mr. Roy Anthony (Tony) Bridge for Jamaica, Mr. Manuel Gonzales Guerra for Cuba, Mr. Ashwini Kumar for India, Mr. Keba M’Baye for Senegal.\n"}
{"id": "2240081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2240081", "title": "Moon rock", "text": "Moon rock\n\nMoon rock or lunar rock is rock that is found on the Earth's Moon including lunar material collected during the course of human exploration of the Moon, or rock that has been ejected naturally from the Moon's surface (and which has then landed on the Earth as meteorites).\n\nMoon rocks on Earth come from three sources: those collected by the United States Apollo program crewed lunar landings from 1969 to 1972; samples returned by three Soviet Luna programme uncrewed probes in the 1970s; and rocks that were ejected naturally from the lunar surface before falling to Earth as lunar meteorites. The Apollo missions collected 2,200 samples weighing . Three Luna spacecraft returned with of samples. More than 370 lunar meteorites have been collected on Earth, representing more than 30 different meteorite finds (no falls), with a total mass of over . Some were discovered by scientific teams (such as ANSMET) searching for meteorites in Antarctica, with most of the remainder discovered by collectors in the desert regions of northern Africa and Oman. A moon rock known as \"NWA 12691\" which weighs , was found in the Sahara Desert at the Algerian and Mauritanian borders in January 2017, and later went on sale for $2.5 Million in 2020.\n\nThe Soviet Union attempted, but failed to make crewed lunar landings in the 1970s, but they succeeded in landing three robotic Luna spacecraft with the capability to collect and return small samples to Earth. A combined total of less than half a kilogram of material was returned.\n\nIn 1993, three small rock fragments from Luna 16, weighing 200 mg, were sold for US$ 442,500 at Sotheby's (). In 2018, the same three Luna 16 rock fragments sold for US$ 855,000 at Sotheby's.\n\nRocks from the Moon have been measured by radiometric dating techniques. They range in age from about 3.16 billion years old for the basaltic samples derived from the lunar maria, up to about 4.44 billion years old for rocks derived from the highlands. Based on the age-dating technique of \"crater counting,\" the youngest basaltic eruptions are believed to have occurred about 1.2 billion years ago, but scientists do not possess samples of these lavas. In contrast, the oldest ages of rocks from the Earth are between 3.8 and 4.28 billion years old.\n\nMoon rocks fall into two main categories: those found in the lunar highlands (terrae), and those in the maria. The terrae consist dominantly of mafic plutonic rocks. Regolith breccias with similar protoliths are also common. Mare basalts come in three distinct series in direct relation to their titanium content: \"high-Ti basalts, low-Ti basalts\", and \"Very Low-Ti (VLT) basalts\".\n\nAlmost all lunar rocks are depleted in volatiles and are completely lacking in hydrated minerals common in Earth rocks. In some regards, lunar rocks are closely related to Earth's rocks in their isotopic composition of the element oxygen. The Apollo Moon rocks were collected using a variety of tools, including hammers, rakes, scoops, tongs, and core tubes. Most were photographed prior to collection to record the condition in which they were found. They were placed inside sample bags and then a \"Special Environmental Sample Container\" for return to the Earth to protect them from contamination. In contrast to the Earth, large portions of the lunar crust appear to be composed of rocks with high concentrations of the mineral anorthite. The mare basalts have relatively high iron values. Furthermore, some of the mare basalts have very high levels of titanium (in the form of ilmenite).\n\nPrimary igneous rocks in the lunar highlands compose three distinct groups: the ferroan anorthosite suite, the magnesian suite, and the alkali suite.\n\nLunar breccias, formed largely by the immense basin-forming impacts, are dominantly composed of highland lithologies because most mare basalts post-date basin formation (and largely fill these impact basins).\n\n\n\"Mare basalts\" are named as such because they frequently constitute large portions of the lunar maria. These typically contain 18-21 percent FeO by weight, and 1-13 percent TiO. They are similar to terrestrial basalts, but have many important differences; for example, mare basalts show a large negative europium anomaly. The type location is Mare Crisium sampled by Luna 24. \n\nThe main repository for the Apollo Moon rocks is the Lunar Sample Laboratory Facility at the Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas. For safe keeping, there is also a smaller collection stored at White Sands Test Facility in Las Cruces, New Mexico. Most of the rocks are stored in nitrogen to keep them free of moisture. They are handled only indirectly, using special tools.\n\nSome Moon rocks from the Apollo missions are displayed in museums, and a few allow visitors to touch them. One of these, called the \"Touch Rock\", is displayed in the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum in Washington, D.C. The idea of touchable Moon rocks at a museum was suggested by Apollo scientist Farouk El-Baz, inspired his childhood pilgimage to Mecca where he touched the Black Stone (which in Islam is believed to be sent down from the heavens).\n\nMoon rocks collected during the course of lunar exploration are currently considered priceless. In 2002, a safe was stolen from the Lunar Sample Building that contained minute samples of lunar and Martian material. The samples were recovered, and NASA estimated their value during the ensuing court case at about $1 million for 10 oz. (285 g) of material.\n\nNaturally transported Moon rocks in the form of lunar meteorites are sold and traded among private collectors.\n\nApollo 17 astronauts Eugene Cernan and Harrison Schmitt picked up a rock \"composed of many fragments, of many sizes, and many shapes, probably from all parts of the Moon\". This rock was later labeled sample 70017. President Nixon ordered that fragments of that rock should be distributed in 1973 to all 50 US states and 135 foreign heads of state. The fragments were presented encased in an acrylic sphere, mounted on a wood plaque which included the recipients' flag which had also flown aboard Apollo 17. Many of the presentation Moon rocks are now unaccounted for, having been stolen or lost.\n\nThree minerals were discovered from the Moon: armalcolite, tranquillityite, and pyroxferroite. Armalcolite was named for the three astronauts on the Apollo 11 mission: Armstrong, Aldrin and Collins.\n\nBecause of their rarity on Earth, and the difficulty of obtaining more, Moon rocks have been frequent targets of theft and vandalism, and many have gone missing or were stolen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2240085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2240085", "title": "Upendrakishore Ray Chowdhury", "text": "Upendrakishore Ray Chowdhury\n\nUpendrakishore Ray Chowdhury (), born Kamadaranjan Ray () (12 May 1863 – 20 December 1915), was a famous Bengali writer, painter, violin player and composer.\n\nHe was the son-in-law of Dwarkanath Ganguly. He was the father of the famous writer Sukumar Ray, and grandfather of the renowned filmmaker Satyajit Ray. Upendrakishore Ray Chowdhury was a product and leading member of the Brahmo Movement that spearheaded the cultural rejuvenation of Bengal. He collaborated with the Tagores, who were world renowned in the arts. As a writer he is best known for his collection of folklore; as a printer, he pioneered in India in the art of engraving and was the first to attempt color printing at the time when engraving and color printing were also being pioneered in the West.\n\nFrom the history of the Ray family, it is known that one of their earlier ancestors Shri Ramsunder Deo (Deb) was a native of Chakdah, Nadia District, Bengal [Now in West Bengal, India]. From there he migrated to sherpur in East Bengal in search of fate. The Zamindar of Jashodal, Raja Gunichandra met him in the Zamindar House of sherpur and was immediately impressed by his charm and his intelligence. He took Ramsunder with him to his estate in Jashodal, gave him a part of his estate and made him his son-in-law. From then on, the Ray family started living in East Bengal.\n\nRay Chowdhury was born on 12 May 1863, in a little village called Moshua in Mymensingh district of Bengal, (now Kishoreganj District in Bangladesh. He spent most of his adult life in Calcutta, where he died on 20 December 1915, aged only fifty-two.\n\nHe was born as Kamadaranjan Ray, to Kalinath Ray, a scholar in Sanskrit, Arabic, and Persian language. At the age of five, Kamadaranjan was adopted by Harikishore, a family-relative who was a zamindar in Mymensingh. Harikishore renamed his adopted son as Upendrakishore, and added the honorific 'Raychaudhuri' as a surname.\n\nRay Chowdhury passed the Entrance examination in 1880 with scholarship from Mymensingh Zilla School. He studied for a while at Presidency College, then affiliated with the University of Calcutta, but passed BA examination in 1884 from the Calcutta Metropolitan Institution (now Vidyasagar College). Upendra took to drawing while in school. He published his first literary work in the magazine \"Sakha\" in 1883.\n\nRay Chowdhury was an expert in English and Persian languages and in the traditional Indian and British-Indian legal systems. He became a topmost expert for interpreting old land deeds written in Persian and in helping the landowners to get the best deal from the newly introduced British legal system in India. He became affluent, and in due course his family was able to afford two elephants.\n\nUpendrakishore first introduced modern blockmaking, including half-tone and colour block making, in South Asia. When the reproduction using woodcut line blocks of his illustrations for one of his books, \"Chheleder Ramayan\", were very poor, he imported books, chemicals and equipment from Britain to learn the technology of blockmaking. After mastering this, in 1895 he successfully set up a business of making blocks. He experimented with the process of advanced blockmaking, and several of his technical articles about blockmaking were published in the Penrose Annual Volumes published from Britain. In his own lifetime, a printing expert from abroad commented that Upendrakishore's contribution was far more original than that of his counterparts in Europe and America, “which is all the more surprising when we consider how far he is from hub-centres of process work”. He also went on publishing books, but initially he had them printed in other printing presses. His residence and business was located at 22, Sukeas Street (now the premises has been renamed 30B, Mahendra Srimany Street) from 1901 to 1914. The \"Sandesh\" magazine was first published here in 1913 (Baisakh Bengali year 1320).\n\nIn 1914 he founded what was then probably the finest printing press in South Asia, U. Ray and Sons at 100 Garpar Road. Even the building plans were designed by him He quickly earned recognition in India and abroad for the new methods he developed for printing both black & white and colour photographs with great accuracy of detail. It was with the intention of running this business that his son Sukumar Ray spent a few years at the University of Manchester's printing technology department.\n\nHe invented several techniques related to halftone blockmaking, of which the \"screen-adjusting machine\" for the automatic focussing of process cameras, was also assembled in England following his design. The British handbook of printing technology, the Penrose Annual, Volume X, 1904–05, mentioned about him in an editorial note that, \"Mr. Ray is evidently possessed of a mathematical quality of mind and he has reasoned out for himself the problems of half-tone work in a remarkably successful manner ... (His printing developments) enable the operator to do uniform work with the fullest graduation and detail in it and with the minimum amount of manipulative skill in the negative-making and etching.\" The Penrose Annual Volume XI of 1905–06 published his paper about the new technique of 60-degree screens in halftone blockmaking.\n\nUpendrakishore's greatest contribution was in the field of children's literature in Bengali. His prominent works include the fantasy \"Goopy Gyne Bagha Byne\" (Bangla: গুপী গাইন বাঘা বাইন) (on which Satyajit Ray based his acclaimed children's movie with the same name), children's verses in \"Ţunţuni'r Boi\" (Bangla:টুনটুনির বই), and the children's versions of the Hindu epics – \"Chheleder Ramayon\" and \"Chheleder Môhabharot\". He did most of the illustrations of his books himself.\n\nIn April 1913, when the building for the new press at 100, Garpar Road was still under construction, Upendrakishore started the magazine \"Sandesh\", a popular children's magazine in Bengali that is still published today. It was the first magazine for children in India that had coloured pictures, and it became an institution in Bengal. A lover of double entendre, Upendrakishore named this magazine \"Sandesh\", after the popular Bengali sweetmeat which, in Sanskrit, also means \"news.\" Upendrakishore (and later his son Sukumar and grandson Satyajit) published most of his children's literature here. He is also regarded for his Bengali short stories, science articles for children and a variety of other work greatly valued in Bengali literature.\n\nUpendrakishore embraced the liberal religious movement of Brahmo Samaj in 1883, after the death of his foster-father and he was a deeply religious man. But his scientific bent of mind is reflected in the numerous science articles he wrote for children. He published two remarkable books on popular science, which were classics in the Bengali language. \"Sekaler Katha\" described the geological history of Earth and the ancient animals like dinosaurs. Äakasher Katha\" was an enthralling account of astronomy. His scientific interests were further nurtured by his close friendship to the scientists Jagadishchandra Bose and Prafullachandra Ray, all of whom lived and worked very close to each other.\n\nAlso a musician, Upendrakishore wrote two books about music in Bengali – \"Sohaj Behala Shikkha\", about learning to play the violin, and \"Sikhak Batorike Harmonium\", about learning to play the harmonium as an accompaniment to Indian music. These were published by Dwarkin & Son, which was a famous music firm of the times, established by Dwarkanath Ghose, the inventor of the hand-harmonium. (Upendrakishore coined the name for the firm in 1875).\n\nUpendrakishore's son, Sukumar Ray, the father of Satyajit Ray, chose to abridge the family name. He too wrote verse and children's rhymes with buoyancy, sparkling humour and flights of fancy, and illustrated his writings himself. He remains today the most popular, oft-quoted Bengali poet after Rabindranath Tagore. Sukumar took charge of Sandesh magazine after his father's death. Sukamar Ray died in his early thirties leaving his wife, Suprabha Das, the care of their son and the boy a legacy of two generations of remarkable artistic creativity.\n\nUpendrakishore's eldest daughter, Shukhalata Rao, became a social worker, children's book author, and editor of a newspaper, \"Alok\". She founded the Shishu-o-Matri Mangal Kendro (Centre for the Welfare of Children and Mothers) and the Orissa Nari Seva Sangha. His second daughter was Punyalata Chakraborty.\n\n"}
{"id": "2240091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2240091", "title": "Tylersville, Ohio", "text": "Tylersville, Ohio\n\nTylersville (also known as Pug Muncy) is an unincorporated community in central West Chester Township, Butler County, Ohio, United States. It was laid out in 1842 by Daniel Pocock and named for the President of the United States at the time, John Tyler. Its name lives on in a major road of northern West Chester Township, which is at Exit 22 on I-75.\n\n"}
