{"id": "2189105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189105", "title": "Prince Kraft zu Hohenlohe-Ingelfingen", "text": "Prince Kraft zu Hohenlohe-Ingelfingen\n\nKraft Prinz zu Hohenlohe-Ingelfingen (2 January 1827 – 16 January 1892), was a Prussian general and military writer during the time of the German Empire.\n\nKraft Karl August zu Hohenlohe-Ingelfingen was born at Koschentin in Upper Silesia. He was the son of Prince Adolf zu Hohenlohe-Ingelfingen (1797–1873), and a grandson of Frederick Louis, Prince of Hohenlohe-Ingelfingen (1746–1818), who commanded the Prussians at Jena.\n\nEducated with great rigour, owing to the impoverishment of the family estates during the Napoleonic Wars, Kraft was sent into the Prussian army. There, he was commissioned to the artillery as the least expensive arm of the service. He joined the Prussian Guard artillery in 1845, and it was soon discovered that he had unusual aptitudes as an artillery officer. For a time his fellow officers resented the presence of a prince, until it was found that he made no attempt to use his social position to secure advancement.\n\nAfter serving as a military attaché in Vienna and on the Transylvanian frontier during the Crimean War, Kraft was made a captain on the general staff, and in 1856 personal aide-de-camp to the king, remaining, however, in close touch with the artillery. In 1864, having become major and then lieutenant colonel, he resigned the staff appointments to become commander of the new Guard Field Artillery regiment. In the following year, he became colonel. \n\nKraft saw his first real active service in 1866. In the hold advance of the Guard corps on the Austrian right wing at Königgrätz during the Austro-Prussian War, he led the Guard reserve artillery with success, and after the short war ended he turned his energies, now fortified by experience, to the tactical training of the Prussian artillery.\n\nIn 1868 Kraft was made a major-general and assigned to command the Guard artillery brigade. In this capacity he gained great distinction during the Franco-Prussian War, especially at Gravelotte and Sedan. He was in control of the artillery attack on the fortifications of Paris. In 1873 he was placed in command of an infantry division, and three years later was promoted to lieutenant-general. While he retired in 1879, he was made general of infantry in 1883 and then general of artillery in 1889.\n\nKraft's military writings were numerous, and amongst them several have become classics. These are \"Briefe über Artillerie\" (English translation \"Letters on Artillery\", 1887); \"Briefe über Strategie\" (1877; \"Letters on Strategy\", 1898); and \"Gespräche über Reiterei\" (1887; \"Conversations on Cavalry\"). The \"Briefe über Infanterie\" and \"Briefe über Kavallerie\" (\"Letters on Infantry, Letters on Cavalry\", 1889) are of less importance, though interesting as a reflection of prevailing German ideas.\n\nKraft's memoirs (\"Aus meinem Leben\") were prepared in retirement near Dresden, and the first volume (1897) created such a sensation that eight years were allowed to elapse before the publication was continued. Kraft died near Dresden in 1892.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189108", "title": "Noordwyk", "text": "Noordwyk\n\nNoordwyk is a suburb of Johannesburg, South Africa. It is located in the Midrand region (which was formerly called Region 2).\n\nA good"}
{"id": "2189111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189111", "title": "Paulshof", "text": "Paulshof\n\nPaulshof is a suburb of Johannesburg, South Africa. It is located in Region 2 and Region 3.\n\nThe village of Paulshof is bounded by the Western Bypass on the South, Leeuwkop Estate on the North, Sunninghill on the East and Lone Hill on the West.\n\nPaulshof is known as the \"Garden Village of the North\" by locals due to its proximity to green spaces such as the Rietfontein Nature Reserve.\n\nPlaces of interest in the suburb include:\nCambridge Crossing Shopping Centre, Reitfontein Nature reserve, the German Country Club, St Peters school, and the Rivonia Recreation & Sports Club, Barnyard Theatre, Nova Pioneer School Campus and much more\n\nPaulshof is also home to many independent small businesses, such as June Day Productions, Luca's Restaurant, and many more. \n"}
{"id": "2189112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189112", "title": "Metachromatic leukodystrophy", "text": "Metachromatic leukodystrophy\n\nMetachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD) is a lysosomal storage disease which is commonly listed in the family of leukodystrophies as well as among the sphingolipidoses as it affects the metabolism of sphingolipids. Leukodystrophies affect the growth and/or development of myelin, the fatty covering which acts as an insulator around nerve fibers throughout the central and peripheral nervous systems. MLD involves cerebroside sulfate accumulation. Metachromatic leukodystrophy, like most enzyme deficiencies, has an autosomal recessive inheritance pattern.\n\nLike many other genetic disorders that affect lipid metabolism, there are several forms of MLD, which are late infantile, juvenile, and adult.\n\n\nPalliative care can help with many of the symptoms and usually improves quality of life and longevity.\n\nCarriers have low enzyme levels compared to their family population (\"normal\" levels vary from family to family) but even low enzyme levels are adequate to process the body's sulfatide.\n\nMLD is directly caused by a deficiency of the enzyme arylsulfatase A (ARSA) and is characterized by enzyme activity in leukocytes that is less than 10% of normal controls. However, assay of the ARSA enzyme activity alone is not sufficient for diagnosis; ARSA pseudodeficiency, which is characterized by enzyme activity that is 5~20% of normal controls does not cause MLD. Without this enzyme, sulfatides build up in many tissues of the body, eventually destroying the myelin sheath of the nervous system. The myelin sheath is a fatty covering that protects nerve fibers. Without it, the nerves in the brain (central nervous system – CNS) and the peripheral nerves (peripheral nervous system – PNS) which control, among other things the muscles related to mobility, cease to function properly.\n\nArylsulfatase A is activated by saposin B (Sap B), a non-enzymatic proteinaceous cofactor. When the arylsulfatase A enzyme level is normal but the sulfatides are still high – meaning that they are not being broken down because the enzyme is not activated – the resulting disease is saposin B deficiency, which presents similar to MLD. Saposin B Deficiency is very rare, much more rare than traditional MLD. The enzyme that is present is not \"enabled\" to a normal level of efficiency and can't break down the sulfatides which results in all of the same MLD symptoms and progression.\n\nA 2011 study contended sulfatide is not completely responsible for MLD because it is nontoxic. It has been suggested lysosulfatide, sulfatide which has had its acyl group removed, plays a role because of its cytotoxic properties in vitro.\n\nMLD has an autosomal recessive inheritance pattern. The inheritance probabilities \"per birth\" are as follows:\n\n\nIn addition to these frequencies there is a 'pseudo'-deficiency that affects 7–15% of the population.<ref name=\"147-150, DOI: 10.1007/BF00286589\"></ref> People with the pseudo deficiency do not have any MLD problems unless they also have affected status. With the current diagnostic tests, Pseudo-deficiency reports as low enzyme levels but sulfatide is processed normally so MLD symptoms do not exist. This phenomenon wreaks havoc with traditional approaches to Newborn Screening so new screening methods are being developed.\n\"For further information, see recessive gene and dominance relationship. Also, consult the MLD genetics page at MLD Foundation. [revise or delete]\"\n\nClinical examination and MRI are often the first steps in a MLD diagnosis. MRI can be indicative of MLD, but is not adequate as a confirming test.\n\nAn ARSA-A enzyme level blood test with a confirming urinary sulfatide test is the best biochemical test for MLD. The confirming urinary sulfatide is important to distinguish between MLD and pseudo-MLD blood results.\n\nGenomic sequencing may also confirm MLD, however, there are likely more mutations than the over 200 already known to cause MLD that are not yet ascribed to MLD that cause MLD so in those cases a biochemical test is still warranted.\n\n\"For further information, see the MLD Testing page at MLD Foundation.\"\n\nThere is currently no therapy or cure for MLD in late infantile patients displaying symptoms, or for juvenile and adult onset with advanced symptoms. These patients typically receive clinical treatment focused on pain and symptom management.\n\nPre-symptomatic late infantile MLD patients, as well as those with juvenile or adult MLD that are either presymptomatic or displaying mild symptoms, can consider bone marrow transplantation (including stem cell transplantation), which may slow down progression of the disease in the central nervous system. However, results in the peripheral nervous system have been less dramatic, and the long-term results of these therapies have been mixed. Recent success has involved stem cells being taken from the bone marrow of children with the disorder and infecting the cells with a retro-virus, replacing the stem cells' mutated gene with the repaired gene before re-injecting it back into the patient where they multiplied. The children by the age of five were all in good condition and going to kindergarten when normally by this age, children with the disease can not even speak.\n\nSeveral therapy options are currently being investigated using clinical trials primarily in late infantile patients. These therapies include gene therapy, enzyme replacement therapy (ERT), substrate reduction therapy (SRT), and potentially enzyme enhancement therapy (EET).\n\nA team of international researchers and foundations gathered in 2008 to form an international MLD Registry to create and manage a shared repository of knowledge, including the natural history of MLD. This consortium consisted of scientific, academic and industry resources. This registry never became operational.\n\nThe incidence of metachromatic leukodystrophy is estimated to occur in 1 in 40,000 to 1 in 160,000 individuals worldwide. There is a much higher incidence in certain genetically isolated populations, such as 1 in 75 in Habbanites (a small group of Jews who immigrated to Israel from southern Arabia), 1 in 2,500 in the western portion of the Navajo Nation, and 1 in 8,000 among Arab groups in Israel.\n\nAs an autosomal recessive disease, 1 in 40,000 equates to a 1 in 100 carrier frequency in the general population.\n\nThere are an estimated 3,600 MLD births per year, with 1,900 alive in the US, 3,100 in Europe, and 49,000 alive worldwide with MLD.\n\nMLD is considered a rare disease in the US and other countries.\n\n\n\"(current as of January 2017)\"\nTwo different approaches to gene therapy are currently being researched for MLD.\n\n \"(current as of January 2017)\"\n\n\nMore information here \"(current January 2017)\"\n\n\"Research & Clinical Trial updates provided by MLD Foundation\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189118", "title": "Plooysville", "text": "Plooysville\n\nPlooysville is a suburb of Johannesburg, South Africa. It is located in Region A of the City of Johannesburg Metropolitan Municipality.\n"}
{"id": "2189122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189122", "title": "Steve Marker", "text": "Steve Marker\n\nSteve Marker (born March 16, 1959) is an American musician, songwriter, and record producer, best known as a cofounder and guitarist in the alternative rock band Garbage.\n\nSteven W. Marker was born in Mamaroneck, New York on March 16, 1959. He spent most of his childhood and his teens in Mamaroneck, New York. At the age of 6, his parents bought him drums; but, at 12, he shifted instruments and took up the guitar. He graduated from Rye Neck High School in Mamaroneck.\n\nMarker attended the University of Wisconsin in Madison for a degree in film. There, he met Butch Vig, who played with the band Spooner. In 1979 the group was trying to figure out how to record a 7-inch single and Marker had grown an interest in musical producing, he bought a four-track reel-to-reel deck, which complemented by Vig's microphones became a home studio in Marker's basement. Marker and Vig also started a small label, Boat Records, to release records of both Spooner and other bands they liked.\n\nMarker co-founded Madison's Smart Studios with Butch Vig in 1983, and maintained a production career engineering and mixing records until he formed Garbage with Vig and Vig's bandmate in Spooner, Duke Erikson, in 1994. He famously spotted Angelfish singer Shirley Manson's music video on MTV's \"120 Minutes\", which led to her joining the group, as Marker felt that Manson differed from the high pitched and screechy female singers of the 1990s and \"was more like the voices that we loved growing up, which was more Patti Smith and Chrissie Hynde – sort of that classic pop sound – maybe Dusty Springfield.\"\n\nMarker stated that his musical style is not influenced by \"the guys that played twenty minute solos\", stating he always preferred \"guitar parts that sort of work melodically more in a Beatles sense\", with artists such as Tom Petty, Keith Richards, The Pretenders and Robert Fripp. Marker considered that his background as a producer helped develop a type of playing where \"you're not there to show off, to show how brilliant you are or draw attention to yourself. You're there to make the song work in whatever way is necessary\", stating that the guitar \"is there to serve the song\".\n\nMarker is married, and has a daughter named Ruby (born March 2000). After living for 25 years in Madison, following Garbage's hiatus in 2005, Marker relocated to Carbondale, Colorado with his family.\n\nStudio albums\n\nCompilation albums and EPs\n\nSteve Marker served as the record producer, or co-producer on the following records:\n\n\nHe also engineered the following records:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189126", "title": "Randjespark", "text": "Randjespark\n\nRandjespark is a suburb of Johannesburg, South Africa. It is located in Region 2.\n"}
{"id": "2189130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189130", "title": "Haddington Burghs (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Haddington Burghs (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nHaddington Burghs was a Scottish district of burghs constituency of the House of Commons of Great Britain (at Westminster) from 1708 to 1801 and of the House of Commons of the United Kingdom (also at Westminster) from 1801 until 1885. It elected one Member of Parliament (MP) using the first-past-the-post voting system.\n\nThe British parliamentary constituency was created in 1708 following the Acts of Union, 1707 and replaced the former Parliament of Scotland burgh constituencies of Haddington, Dunbar, Jedburgh, Lauder and North Berwick\n\nThe constituency consisted of the Haddingtonshire burghs of Haddington, Dunbar, and North Berwick, the Berwickshire burgh of Lauder, and the Roxburghshire burgh of Jedburgh.\n\nThe constituency elected one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system until the seat was abolished for the 1885 general election.\n\nIn 1885, Haddington, Dunbar, and North Berwick were merged into the county constituency of Haddingtonshire, Lauder was merged into the county constituency of Berwickshire, and Jedburgh was merged into the county constituency of Roxburghshire.\n\n\nSteuart was appointed as a Lord Commissioner of the Treasury, requiring a by-election.\n\nDavie resigned, causing a by-election.\n\nHay succeeded to the peerage, becoming the 10th Marquess of Tweeddale.\n\nWedderburn resigned, causing a by-election.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189133", "title": "Via ferrata", "text": "Via ferrata\n\nA via ferrata (Italian for \"iron path\", plural \"vie ferrate\" or in English \"via ferratas\") is a protected climbing route found in the Alps and certain other locations. The term \"via ferrata\" is used in most countries and languages except notably in German-speaking regions, which use \"Klettersteig\"—\"climbing path\" (plural \"Klettersteige\").\n\nA via ferrata is a climbing route that employs steel cables, rungs or ladders, fixed to the rock to which the climbers affix a harness with two leashes, which allows the climbers to secure themselves to the metal fixture and limit any fall. The cable and other fixtures, such as iron rungs (stemples), pegs, carved steps, and ladders and bridges, provide both footings and handholds, as well. This allows climbing on otherwise dangerous routes without the risks of unprotected scrambling and climbing or the need for technical climbing equipment. They expand the opportunities for accessing difficult peaks as an alternative to rock climbing and mountaineering, both of which require higher skills and more specialized equipment.\n\nVia ferratas can vary in length from short routes taking less than an hour to long, demanding alpine routes covering significant distance and altitude ( or more of ascent) and taking eight or more hours to complete. In certain areas, such as the Brenta Dolomites, it is possible to link via ferratas together, staying overnight in mountain refuges, and so undertake extensive multi-day climbing tours at high altitude. In difficulty, via ferratas can range from routes that are little more than paths, albeit in dramatic and exposed situations, to very steep and strenuous routes, overhanging in parts, demanding the strength—if not the technique—of serious rock climbing. Generally, via ferratas are done in ascent, although it is possible to descend them.\n\nThe origins of the via ferrata date back to the nineteenth century, but they are often associated with the First World War, when several were built in the Dolomite mountain region of Italy to aid the movement of troops. Over 1000 via ferratas currently exist in the European Alps. The majority are found in Italy and Austria. Others are found in a number of European countries and a few places elsewhere. Via ferratas have traditionally been associated with limestone mountain regions, notably the Dolomites and the Northern Limestone Alps, as the steep nature of the terrain creates the need for some form of protected paths, while the presence of ledges and natural weaknesses means relatively easy but rewarding routes can often be created. However, they are now found in a range of different terrains.\n\nSimple protected paths, with ladders and basic protection aids, have probably existed in the Alps for centuries, helping to connect villages to their high pastures. Construction of what could be seen as the precursors of modern via ferratas dates back to the growth of Alpine exploration and tourism in the nineteenth century. In 1843, a route on the Dachstein was constructed under the direction of Friedrich Simony; it included a range of climbing aids with iron pins, hand hooks, carved footholds and ropes. In 1869 a rope was fixed between the summits of Grossglockner, and in 1873 fixed protection was installed on the Zugspitze. In the Pyrenees, iron climbing aids were installed on the Pic du Midi d'Ossau in 1880, and in the Ordesa in 1881. The Northern Limestone Alps saw the first routes still in use today as via ferratas: the Heilbronner Way in the German Allgau Alps was constructed in 1899, shortly followed by the Eggersteig (1903) and Wildauersteig (1911) in the Wilder Kaiser in Austria. In the Dolomites, the climbing path up the West ridge of the Marmolada (German: Marmolata) was installed in 1903, and the Possnecker Path up Piz Selva in the Sella Group was completed before the First World War.\n\nIn 1914 the Dolomites were part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, which was part of the Central Powers during the First World War. In 1915, Italy joined the alliance of Britain, France, and Russia and declared war on the Central Powers. Austria's troops were heavily committed in Russia and it immediately withdrew to a defensive line which ran through the Dolomites. Until the end of 1917 the Austrians (supported by troops from Southern Germany) and the Italians fought a ferocious war in the mountains of the Dolomites; not only against each other but also against the hostile conditions. Both sides tried to gain control of the peaks to site observation posts and field guns. To help troops move about at high altitude in very difficult conditions, permanent lines were fixed to rock faces and ladders were installed so that troops could ascend steep faces. They also tried to create and control tunnels below the peaks to attack from there (see Mines on the Italian Front). Trenches, dugouts and other relics of the First World War can be found alongside many via ferratas. There is an extensive open-air museum on 5 Torri, and around Lagazuoi, where very heavy fighting took place. This wartime network of via ferratas has been restored, although not until well after the Second World War: steel cables have replaced ropes, and iron ladders and metal rungs anchored into the rock have taken the place of the flimsy wooden structures used by the troops. These routes are now maintained by the Club Alpino Italiano (CAI; Italian Alpine Club).\n\nIn the 1930s, the Società degli alpinisti tridentini (SAT) together with the CAI began working on shortening and improving access to the climbing routes in the Brenta Dolomites, by installing artificial aids and protection. Natural lines and routes in the rock were linked up and a system of routes began to be developed, work continuing after the second world war. The Via delle Bocchette was discovered by mountain walkers and gradually gained a classic reputation in its own right, a reputation which it still retains. In developing the Via delle Bocchette, a certain ethic was followed – climbing aids were kept to a minimum, and the routes deliberately do not access any summits, an approach which is sometimes but not always followed by modern via ferratas. The Via delle Bocchette helped establish the idea of doing via ferratas in their own right, rather than as access to summits or to climbs.\n\nVia ferratas have continued to grow in popularity. In the 1970s and 80s development remained focused on traditional areas (the Dolomites and Northern Limestone Alps). Routes were mostly developed by the climbing community often with active involvement of one of the relevant Alpine Clubs (although there was occasional controversy and opposition to some added routes). In the 1990s and 2000s, development became more commercial and involved more organisations: via ferratas began to be seen as a useful way to encourage tourism and increase the range of activities available to visitors, and so routes were developed by local communities, outdoor activity centres, cable car companies, mountain refuges and others, as well as continuing involvement by the Alpine clubs. Development of via ferratas has spread out of its original areas to the rest of the Alps and beyond. The first via ferratas in France were constructed in 1988; by 2003 there were 100. While high mountain via ferratas have continued to be developed, the modern era has seen the rise of more \"sporting\" routes, sometimes closer to the valley and often more challenging in nature, with severely steep sections and requiring high strength. Routes have been built in dramatic locations, alongside waterfalls or in canyons. Other routes include features such as wire bridges and even zip wires, designed to increase their appeal to visitors. Climbing via ferratas has come to be recognised as a valid mountain activity in own right, with its own guidebooks, equipment, grading system and enthusiasts, with an increasing number of locations now available to undertake via ferrata climbs.\n\nVarious grading systems exist for via ferratas. Most focus on the level of difficulty of the hardest passage, and use a 5- or 6-point scale. Smith and Fletcher in \"Via Ferratas of the Italian Dolomites\" use grades 1 to 5. The Kurt Schall guides (\"Klettersteig-Atlas\" series) use a primarily an A to E 5-point scale, although an F grade has recently been used, and intermediate grades are also used (e.g. C/D). The website www.klettersteig.de uses grades 1 to 6, although based on the Schall system. In France, the 6 classic alpine grades are used: F – Facile; PD – Peu Difficile; AD – Assez Difficile; D– Difficile: TD – Très Difficile: ED – Extrêmement Difficile (although these grades bear no comparison to their Alpine counterparts). An outline of a 5-level grading system is provided below, but clearly individual guidebooks grades should be checked against their own definitions.\nOne criticism of these grading system is that they ignore the severity and length of the difficulties – a long, high mountain route with extensive passages of grade D is very different from a short valley route also graded D, but with only a brief difficult section. To overcome this, additional ratings on the seriousness of the route are often provided – the Kurt Schall guides use a five-level adjectival scale; Smith and Fletcher use a three-point scale A–C. The old Hofler/Werner guidebooks use a single general grade on an A-G scale. Most guidebooks provide some further information to help assess the nature of a route, such as the length of the route, the maximum height reached, and even a grade for the quality of the protection.\n\nFor many years via ferratas were climbed using simple equipment – carabiners fixed to short lengths of rope or slings attached to a chest (or sit) harness, on the basis that one would not fall very far. However, it gradually became apparent that these systems did not prevent serious injury. With only a short length of rope to absorb the energy of a fall which can be much longer, the fall factor (which in rock climbing does not normally exceed two) can be high. These high factors generate considerable forces which the human body, as well as most items of climbing equipment, cannot withstand, leading to serious injury and equipment failure. To address this, a number of devices have been developed to act as shock absorbers or progressive brakes. They aim to dissipate the energy of the fall more effectively than a short rope length and so keep the climber and equipment intact.\n\nHowever, in spite of these equipment developments and the perception of via ferratas as being more secure and safe than rock climbing, people are more likely to injure themselves if they do fall, partly because of these elevated fall factors and partly because there are often rungs and steps on which to land. After a fatal via ferrata accident in August 2012 where both elastic lanyards on the energy-absorbing systems (EAS) in a via ferrata set failed, the International Mountaineering and Climbing Federation (UIAA) worked with manufacturers to identify and recall several models of EAS systems.\n\nIn the European Economic Area, energy absorbing systems for use in via ferrata climbing are classed as Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and are subject to the safety requirements and conformity assessment procedures of the PPE Regulation (EU) 2016/425. The requirements of the Regulation are supported by a European Harmonised Standard, EN 958. This standard was revised in 2017 to include several redesigned tests to prevent the type of failures involved in the 2012 accident.\n\nA via ferrata set comprises a lanyard and two carabiners. The lanyard consists of an energy-absorbing system, two arms which connect to the cable with the carabiners, and a means of connecting to the harness. Modern lanyards use a \"Y\" tape configuration, which is currently the only type approved by UIAA, as it is simpler and safer to use and harder to use inappropriately. Using the Y lanyard, both arms should be attached to the steel line, although the system still functions if only one is clipped. However, some earlier lanyards use a \"V\" configuration. These were the first to be developed but suffer from a major limitation – it is essential to clip only one arm at a time onto the cable. If both arms are clipped, the energy absorber will not work. Some lanyards also have a short third arm which allows the climber to rest on steep sections. Some types of commercially available lanyards have retractable arms to keep them out of the way.\n\nThe main type of energy absorber in use today is a tearing energy absorber. This consists of a length of webbing specially sewn together to allow progressive tearing in case of a fall. Such devices can only be used once to arrest a serious fall, and will exhibit visible damage afterwards. The advantages of this type of absorber are that it is compact and that it can be easily verified that it is not being reused after a fall (particularly valuable in the case of rented equipment); the disadvantage is that it can be used only once, leaving the climber unprotected in case of a second fall.\n\nThe other type of energy absorber is a metal braking device with a rope passing through it and attached to the harness. Previously popular, these have been largely withdrawn after the re-evaluation of via ferrata safety that occurred after the 2012 accident. The device provides a high degree of resistance when the rope is pulled, thus gradually absorbing the energy of the fall. There were several variants of these absorbers. The advantage of such absorbers is that they can be used again after a fall, providing some protection while finishing the climb. Note that after any significant fall, the lanyard should be replaced. A length of the rope which passes through the plate hangs loosely from the plate while in use, so as to be available to be drawn through the plate if high fall forces occur. This \"tail\" tends to get in the climber's way; commercially made lanyards employ various methods to attach the tail to the harness and/or hold it in a compact bundle which can easily be pulled apart during deployment. However, if the climber, by seeking to secure the tail, impedes its ability to pull through the plate under load, excessive forces will not be dissipated and an unsafe situation is created.\n\nCarabiners are also made specially for via ferratas, their design typically allowing a larger-than-normal opening and having a spring locking mechanism that can be opened with one hand. They are also strong enough to withstand high fall factors. Such carabiners are marked with a K in a circle, the K standing for Klettersteig, the German term for via ferrata. These are the only types of carabiner that should be used on the end of the safety lines. A typical design uses a spring-loaded sleeve on the carabiner gate. While the gate is closed, the sleeve is held in place over the gate opening by its spring; to unlock and open the gate, the sleeve slides directly down the gate shaft away from the opening. The ease of opening these devices makes them suitable for via ferrata climbing, with its constant clipping and unclipping, but not for applications where more secure locking mechanisms (automatic or manual) are called for. However, locking sleeves on via ferrata carabiners have been known to hang up in the gate opening and prevent the gate from closing properly. Care must be taken to maintain (clean and lubricate) and/or replace the carabiners as needed to avoid this potentially unsafe situation. Also, these carabiners are not true \"locking carabiners\", as employed in roped climbing and caving systems, and should not be used as such.\n\nA normal climbing harness is used. Children and people with heavy backpacks are advised to use a full body harness or a normal harness combined with a chest strap.\n\nA helmet is generally strongly recommended, especially on longer or steeper routes, or where rocks may be loose. The helmet should be a UIAA approved climbing helmet, since the danger of falling rocks or hitting your head during a fall is always high. Other types of helmets can be dangerous as they are usually not designed to stay in place during a fall.\n\nIt is a good idea to use tough gloves, as the steel cables may have some loose steel threads, and gloves help to protect your hands from abrasion caused by continuous contact with the steel rope and rocks.\n\nOn difficult climbs, or when climbing with novices or children, a length of climbing rope and belay device may provide additional security.\n\nOther equipment will depend on the nature of the via ferrata, its approach and descent – so adequate weather protection should be taken on alpine via ferratas. Some via ferratas require headlamps because they travel through long tunnels; other routes may cross glaciers or snow fields and require crampons and ice axe. On very difficult via ferratas some climbers use climbing shoes rather than the hiking boots normally used.\n\nThere are more than 400 via ferratas in Italy, over half of them located in the Dolomites.\n\nAs well as historic via ferratas based on World War I fortifications, the Dolomites are particularly renowned for their dramatic high mountain via ferratas. Several of these provide challenging ways to reach some of the summits in the range. Among the more notable routes are:\n\nAnother interesting and historic route is the VF Ivano Dibona, involving a traverse of the main Monte Cristallo ridge. The complete route takes about eight hours starting at Rifugio Lorenzi (2950 m) by the top of the Rio Gere lift system. It begins by crossing a characteristic suspension bridge, and trends mostly downhill, passing several World War I fortifications. It is often preceded by undertaking the Via Ferrata Marino Bianchi, which goes from the top of the lift to a subsidiary summit of the Monte Cristallo.\n\nProbably the most unusual via ferrata is the via ferrata Lagazuoi Tunnels. Fighting for control of Mount Lagazuoi in World War I, Austrian and Italian troops built a series of tunnels through the mountains. The aim was to tunnel close to the enemy and detonate explosives to destroy their fortifications. A via ferrata now uses these tunnels, allowing one to descend into and through the mountain.\n\nThere are a great many other via ferratas in the Dolomites, including many shorter routes such as the easy Via ferrata Averau, or the difficult Via ferrata del Canalone. There are via ferratas in the valleys around the dolomites, such as Via ferrata Burrone Giovannelli near Mezzocorona, in the Etschtal (Val d'Adige) which ascends a gorge.\n\nBrenta\n\nTo the west of the main dolomites, on the other side of the A22/E45 road, are the smaller Brenta Dolomites, which are compact but dramatic, and rise above the town of Madonna di Campiglio. The Brenta contain a dense network of via ferratas, the core of which is the Via delle Bocchette system, consisting of several sections, including the Sentiero Bocchette Alte and the Sentiero delle Bocchette Centrali. The northern end of the range can be reached by lifts from Madonna di Campiglio, and it is possible to spend several days at high altitude on the network of via ferratas, staying at mountain huts. However, in accordance with the wishes of the region's climbers, the routes do not reach any major summits.\n\nThere are over 150 via ferratas in Italy outside of the Dolomites, most of them constructed fairly recently. There are notable concentrations at the northern end of Lake Garda, in the Aosta valley, in the mountains east of Lake Como and in the Friuli region, split between the Carnic and Julian Alps.\nSome of the more notable routes are:\n\nThere are more than 300 vias ferratas in Spain, located in the following regions: \n\nValencian Community\n\nAragon\n\nCanarias Islands\n\nCatalonia\n\nAustria, with over 550 \"Klettersteige,\" is arguably the country that has most enthusiastically embraced the via ferrata – with via ferratas promoted as a way to experience nature and with the regional sections of the ÖAV (Austrian Alpine Club) basing many of their harder walks around via ferratas. Via ferratas in Austria have a long history, with routes being established at the start of the 20th century in the Northern Limestone Alps. For many years route development remained focused in this area and it is only more recently that via ferratas have been built across the Austrian Alps. As a broad generalisation, routes in Austria fall somewhere between the long mountain routes of the Dolomites and the shorter sporting routes of France. That said, the via ferrata currently (2012) considered the hardest technically in the world is in Austria: the \"Arena\" variant of the Bürgeralm-Panorama-Klettersteig in Styria.\n\nThe Northern Limestone Alps, which run from near Vienna to the Swiss border, remain at the heart of Austrian klettersteig, with routes concentrated in key mountain groups: the Rax (where some of the oldest via ferratas are), the Hohe Wand, the Totes Gebirge, the Dachstein, the Wilder Kaiser, the Karwendel. The Dachstein mountains in Styria, in particular, are home to several notable via ferratas, including the Ramsauer Klettersteig, the Jubiläumsklettersteig, and on the northern side of the Dachstein, the Seewand Klettersteig, which is one of the hardest long routes in Austria. However, perhaps the highlight is the long and difficult Dachstein Super Ferrata, recently created by linking three routes, and possibly the most challenging via ferrata overall in Austria. Other notable routes in the Northern Limestone Alps are the Innsbrucker Klettersteig in the Karwendel and the Tajakante Klettersteig in the Mieminger Chain just to the east (both routes are in Tirol, near Innsbruck).\n\nThe Central Eastern Alps have seen more recent development, with large numbers of routes in the Otztal and the Stubai Alps, and on either side of the Hohe Tauern. Highly regarded routes are the Schlicker Klettersteig and Ilmspitz Klettersteig in the Stubai, the Tiroler Weg in the Otztal, and the Bella Vista Klettersteig on the south side of the Hohe Tauern in Carinthia. Other via ferratas in this area climb a number of 3000m summits. The Southern Limestone Alps in Carinthia and East Tirol are more traditional ground for via ferratas. Several routes lie near the Italian border (in the Carnic Alps) which formed the front line in World War I and some via ferratas pass fortifications from the conflict, including the Weg der 26er which ascends the Hohe Warte, the highest peak of the range.\n\nFrance saw its first via ferrata in 1988 – La Grande Falaise in Freissinière in the Ecrins. This was shortly followed by the via ferratas at les Vigneaux just to the north (the easier route, La Voie du Colombier, is the most popular in France with 15,000 climbers per year) and the Aiguillette du Lauzet, a little further north (a more traditional high mountain via ferrata). There are now some 200 via ferratas in France, located throughout the French Alps, and with a few routes in the Massif Central, the Pyrenees and even in Corsica. They are well distributed across the six French grades, with handful each of F and ED, the bulk falling within the four middle classifications. As via ferratas have developed across the country, some have identified a distinct \"french style, with metal rungs driven into improbable overhangs\", spiced with wire bridges, and an emphasis on thrill seeking – although some criticise French routes as having an excess of iron climbing aids. Dramatic features underpin many of the more notable routes: long suspension bridges (59m at the via ferrata de la Grande Fistoire), wire \"monkey\" bridges (via ferrata de la Chal); routes into and across gorges (the \"spectacular\" via ferrata Gorges de la Durance); routes up and around waterfalls (via ferrata de l´Adret: la Passerelle) or simply overhanging and strenuous (the neighbouring via ferrata de l´Adret: Le Bastion).\n\nOther routes facilitate visits to historic sites. Les Mines du Grand Clôt near the village of La Grave in the Hautes Alpes department takes the climber up a sheer cliff where a lead mine operated with little success between 1807 and 1925. This route is illustrated with sign boards in English and French telling the story of the struggle to extract small amounts of ore in very difficult conditions. Another via near Lumbin in the department of Isère, the Vire des Lavandières, passes an old section of route called the Échelle des Maquisards built in 1943 and used by resistance fighters during the Second World War.\n\nResponsibility for maintaining via ferratas in France lies with the commune in which the via is situated. Maintenance can be costly depending on location, with vias at higher altitudes being subject to damage by snow and ice through the winter months. Some communes have decided to fund this maintenance by charging an admission fee, but this applies to very few vias and most remain free of charge.\n\nDespite its central position in the Alps, via ferratas took a long time to arrive in Switzerland. It was not until 1993 that the Tälli Klettersteig, the first real Swiss via ferrata (and still considered one of the best), was created on the sheer southern faces of Gadmer Flue in the Urner Alps. Even then nothing much further happened for several years, but in this century there has been a rapid development of via ferratas, with over 150 now listed. According to the Rother guide, the Swiss via ferratas are typically similar in character to the \"sport\" via ferratas in France; however, they are usually not as generously engineered with artificial holds so that climbers have to make contact with the rock and think about where the next foothold is.\n\nVia ferratas are now spread across Switzerland, but particularly in the central and western areas. Areas with a large number of via ferratas are the Bernese Oberland with 32 routes and the Valais with 39 routes. In central Switzerland there are several routes around Lake Lucerne, in the Urner and Vierwaldstätter alps (15 and 17 routes respectively), with Engelberg developing into a notable centre for ferrata – here, the Fürenwand-Klettersteig is considered the \"most spectacular\".\nThe range of routes is diverse: \"action-packed\" gorge routes (Alpine gorge in Saas Fee, Gorner gorge near Zermatt); panoramic routes onto 3000m peaks (Jegisteig <nowiki>[</nowiki>Jägihorn<nowiki>]</nowiki> and Mittaghorn Klettersteig, both near Saas Fee); high alpine challenges (Salbit-Kettenweg near Andermatt); and demanding athletic routes (Via ferrata San Salvatore near Lugano). The Rother guide considers that the most outstanding routes with regard to scenery and grading are the Braunwalder via ferrata in the eastern Swiss canton of Glarus and the Daubenhorn via ferrata near Leukerbad in the Valais. Also known as Leukerbadner Klettersteig (1&2), the latter is also the longest via ferrata in Switzerland.\n\nThere are about 180 via ferratas in Germany, the easiest of which can be approached without special equipment.\nMany are in the southern regions of Germany near the Austrian border.\nThere are also many via ferratas in other areas – most notably in Saxon Switzerland. As opposed to via ferratas in the Dolomites, many routes were built in modern times and they have a sport character, and can be short and much more difficult than classics in the Dolomites.\n\nThis small country has 15 vía ferratas.\n\nThere is a via ferrata system in the town of Děčín. It has an easy shared starting section at the end of which you can choose a number of different routes with a variety of difficulties.\nThere is also a via ferrata in Semily called Vodni Brana (Water Gate).\n\nThere is a via ferrata in Rugova Mountains, Kosovo. It is located four kilometres from Peja city. The road starts from Queen's Cave and need two hours to finish. It was built in 2013. This is unique in the Balkans.\n\nIn Kosovo the first Via Ferrata was built in 2013 and then extended in 2014. It is called Via Ferrata Ari. Its construction was supported by the Italian experts. The Via Ferrata is around 100 meters vertical and the whole trail is around 3 kilometers.\n\nThe Second Via Ferrata was built in Northern Kosovo in the municipality of Zubin Potok it is called Via Ferrata Berim. The third Via Ferrata is built next to the Via Ferrata Ari and it is called Mat Via Ferrata. This goes parallel to the first one.\n\nSeveral via ferratas are found in Norway, usually named by their Norwegian word \"klatresti\" which roughly translates as 'climbing trail'. There is a via ferrata \"Tysso\" in Tyssedal, starting at the Norwegian Museum of Hydro Power and Industry and climbing along the very steep hydropower pipeline. There is also one in Hemsedal. The most known is the Via Ferrata Loen in Stryn. It opened in 2012. This track contains the dramatic hanging bridge, Gjølmunnebrua. Trondheim boasts a via ferrata opposite the Trondheimsfjord on the Munken mountain, with views of the city. A via ferrata also opened in Åndalsnes in 2017.\n\nThere are at least nine areas with via ferrata routes in Romania. Most routes are \"sport\" oriented, opened in recent years. There is a cluster of nine routes near Peștera Muierilor, in the Baia de Fier commune, Gorj county, where the latest route was finished in May 2018. Another cluster of five routes is called \"Astragalus\" (named after the Astragalus species of herbs) and can be found near Șugău River (Bicaz) – these routes were opened in Spring 2017 and are subject to a fee. The mountain rescue service in Bihor county built two routes near Vadu Crișului and one route in Pietrele Negre, near Arieșeni commune, in the Apuseni Mountains. The mountain rescue service in Harghita county built the route called \"Wild Ferenc\" in 2016, near Red Lake.\n\nThere are many via ferrata routes or route sections in Slovenia, though there is no definite list. In the western part (Julian Alps), a few have similar wartime origins to those in the Dolomites, all the rest being in disrepair or of later construction. Routes have evolved as protection has been added to trails in the \"very difficult\" category – difficulty tends to be more variable and protection tends to be less continuous than purpose built via ferrata elsewhere. Notable routes are the routes up Triglav from the Vrata valley (the Prag route, the Tomisek Route, and the Bamberg way), the Kopiščar \"through the window\" route up Prisank and the Slovenian way up Mangart.\n\nIn 2010 the first sport via ferrata vas built near Vinska Gora, called \"Gonžarjeva peč\", difficulty D/E. Others were added in recent years, e.g., Lisca (Cerje), difficulty B/C (top-most part D/E), Mojstrana (Grančišče), and Češka koča (Jezersko).\n\nThere are at least seven via ferrata routes in Sweden. One on the eastern route to the peak of Kebnekaise, one in Funäsdalen, one in Kittelfjäll and four on \"Skuleberget\" in the High Coast area.\n\nIn the Lake District, Honister's via ferrata is based on an old miners' track up the steep face of Fleetwith Pike.\n\nIn the Yorkshire Dales, How Stean Gorge's via ferrata was constructed in 2009 for recreational purposes and incorporates fixed beams and ladders over the river as well as rockface sections.\n\nTo the west of the village of Elie, in the county of Fife, Scotland, the Elie Chainwalk was perhaps the closest thing that Scotland had to a via ferrata until the recent creation of that at Kinlochleven. The Elie Chainwalk comprises eight chains along a route which follows steep sea cliffs, and typical via ferrata equipment (lanyards, helmet, harness) is never used. Reputed to have first been installed to help fishermen reach their nets, it is now maintained by the local council and was recently refurbished. It is suitable for those aged about 10 and above (with supervision); it is not recommended at high tide due to the possibility of being stranded.\n\nRecently Scotland has had its first Via Ferrata completed. Via Ferrata Scotland is located in Kinlochleven, near Fort William and Glencoe. This runs beside the third biggest waterfall in Scotland, The Grey Mare's Tail, it was installed and is operated by Vertical Descents.\n\nThere is also an indoor via ferrata in Kendal Climbing Wall that takes a route around the climbing areas on steel ladders and rungs.\n\nGobbins Path, Northern Ireland. Walking route along sea cliffs.\n\nThere are several via ferratas in Canada, mostly privately operated. In 2002, the mountain guide François Guy Thivierge installed the first two via ferratas, with a zip line, in Canada, at the Canyon St Anne close to Québec City. In 2003, Thivierge developed 2 more via ferratas (with 2 zip lines) in Les Palissades de Charlevoix, 10 km north on 170 road from St Siméon. There is one in Arbraska Laflèche in Val-des-Monts, Quebec and a second one in Arbraska Rawdon in Rawdon, Quebec.\n\nWestern Canada has eight routes. The largest via ferrata in Canada can be found on Mt. Nimbus in the Purcell Mountains of British Columbia. One of two operated by Canadian Mountain Holidays, this via ferrata is accessible only by helicopter. British Columbia's other via ferratas are at Kicking Horse Mountain Resort near Golden, at the Sea to Sky Gondola near Squamish, and at Whistler.\n\nWestern Canada's first public via ferrata is on Mt. Stelfox in Alberta, halfway between Nordegg and the Icefield Parkway in the Rocky Mountains; the trailhead can be picked up at the parking lot on the east side of the Cline River. The climb is about 180 m (600 ft) long and takes around 2 hours to return to the parking lot. The other via ferratas in Alberta are on Mount Ernest Ross and on Mt. Norquay.\n\nIn recent years, China's rise of a professional Ferrata construction company, called Yuehua Junning, the company's team mostly through the Cave Union and IRATA professional training, and has its own Ferrata components production lines and R&D institutions. Its team has built more than 20 Ferratas in the Hainan, Guizhou, Sichuan, Chongqing, Henan, Shandong, Zhejiang, Jiangxi, Beijing and other places. The more famous lines are in Xiushui County, Jiangxi Province, and East Huhai Scenic Area.\n\nMount Hua, near Xi'an in China, has at least two short via ferrata routes. , more than 10 ferratas have been built in China, including Beijing, Guizhou, Chongqing, Jiangxi, Yunnan, and Shanxi. Prisme through its Chinese partner Beijing Via Ferrata Development & Services Co. Ltd, built 3 ferratas in Beijing, Shanxi and Yunnan. A few local companies have begun to build via ferrata as well, although the safety standards of via ferrata built by local companies are not the same as Prisme or other European builders.\nOn Mount Hōken in the Japanese Central Alps are mid-level via ferratas. At an elevation over 2900 meters they pass over sheer drops of 300 meters. Several people have lost their lives on this route and the via ferratas can unexpectedly ice over.\n\nIn July 2012 a via ferrata developed by the Kenyan Wildlife Services (KWS), opened on Mount Kenya, providing safe passage on the Northwest approach to Point Lenana (via Austrian Hut), as well from the south side (Shipton). Christened \"Olonana\", it is the world's highest via ferrata, at replacing the via ferrata on Mount Kinabalu, Malaysia, as the record holder.\n\nIn 2011 a via ferrata developed by Green Discovery Laos was opened as part of the Tree Top Explorer. It is an intermediate difficulty. Supported by the World Tourism Organization (UNWTO) and The International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN, Netherlands) for its environment friendly approach and the involvement of local communities, the project also aims to give a boost to Laos' tourism diversification. Since its opening several other via ferratas have opened through out Laos.\n\nThe via ferrata in Malaysia is located on Mount Kinabalu in Sabah. At 3,776 meters, it was verified by Guinness World Records as the highest via ferrata in the world.\n\nThere is a recent via ferrata in Mexico located in the Huasteca Canyon 30 minutes from the city of Monterrey, the largest in Latin America. Its difficulty level is intermediate.\n\nThere is a via ferrata on the western face of Queenstown Hill. It comprises 12 routes covering over 300 vertical metres.\n\nA via ferrata in Wanaka is privately operated by a company called Wildwire Wanaka. The via ferrata includes a section running up a 60 meter waterfall, and is the highest waterfall via ferrata in the world.\n\nThere are five routes in Oman; three are operated by the Ministry of Tourism; Jabal Shams, Wadi Bani Awf (Snake Gorge) and Bandar Khayran (Western Isle) which have been out of commission since 2012.\nCurrently only two are operating; which are privately run by Alila Jabal Akhdar – one is level 2 and the second is level 5, that includes a suspended bridge walk (22 metres) across a cave mouth.\n\nLocated in the Sacred Valley of the Incas (2,650 meters), between Cuzco and the Ollantaytambo fortress. The via ferrata reaches a vertical height of 300 meters, including a hanging bridge at 250 meters, and has a total length of 700 meters. Private route. Intermediate level. The exit is via a 100-meter rappel.\n\nThere is one route in the United Arab Emirates, located in the emirate of Ras Al Khaimah. The route runs along Jebel Jais and has a total length of one kilometer, with 3 zip-lines part of the route.\n\nOne publication cited the \"best\" via ferratas in the United States to be: Waterfall Canyon, Utah; Torrent Falls, Red River Gorge, Kentucky; Nelson Rocks, West Virginia; Jackson Hole Mountain Resort, Wyoming; Telluride, Colorado; and Tahoe Via Ferrata, Squaw Valley Resort, California. Other routes include Royal Gorge Bridge in Cañon City, Colorado; Picacho Peak in Arizona's Picacho Peak State Park; and Amangiri Resort in southern Utah. The 2011 Recreation Opportunity Enhancement Act supports the installation of via ferratas on public land.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189135", "title": "Guardians of Hellenism", "text": "Guardians of Hellenism\n\nThe Guardians of Hellenism (Greek: \"Έλληνες Ακρίτες\") is a series of albums featuring recordings of traditional Greek music by region, performed by the Hellenic Music Archives Ensemble.\n\nYears of release are in parentheses\n\n"}
{"id": "2189136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189136", "title": "West Virginia Legislature", "text": "West Virginia Legislature\n\nThe West Virginia Legislature is the state legislature of the U.S. state of West Virginia. A bicameral legislative body, the legislature is split between the upper Senate and the lower House of Delegates. It was established under Article VI of the West Virginia Constitution following the state's split from Virginia during the American Civil War in 1863. As with its neighbor and former constituent Virginia General Assembly, the legislature's lower house is also referred to as a \"House of Delegates.\" \n\nThe legislature convenes in the State Capitol building in Charleston.\n\nSenators are elected for terms of four years and delegates for terms of two years. These terms are staggered, meaning that not all 34 State Senate seats are up every election: some are elected presidential election years and some are up during midterm elections.\n\nRegular sessions of the legislature commence on the second Wednesday of January of each year. However, following the election of a new governor, the session starts in January with the governor's address but then adjourns until February. On the first day of the session, members of both the House and the Senate sit in joint session in the House chamber where the governor presents his or her legislative program. The length of the general session may not go beyond 60 calendar days unless extended by a concurrent resolution adopted by a two-thirds vote of each house. The governor may convene the Legislature for extraordinary sessions. Given the part-time nature of the legislature of West Virginia, multiple extraordinary sessions are not uncommon.\n\nBills, even revenue bills, and resolutions may originate in either house. Bills must undergo three readings in each house before being sent to the governor. Bills cannot contain multiple subjects and do not take effect until 90 days following adjournment, unless specifically approved to take effect immediately by two-thirds of the membership of each house.\n\nBills are drafted by the Office of Legislative Services or legislative staff counsel, reviewed by the sponsor of the bill and submitted for introduction to the clerk of the chamber of which he or she is a member. Bills are assigned to committees that make recommendations about a bill in the form of a committee report.\n\nThe governor has the power to veto bills. For budget bills or supplementary appropriations bills, two-thirds of the members elected to each house are required to override the governor's veto of a bill or line-item veto. For all other bills, a simple majority of each house is required.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189139", "title": "Feldkirch District", "text": "Feldkirch District\n\nThe Bezirk Feldkirch is an administrative district (\"Bezirk\") in Vorarlberg, Austria.\n\nArea of the district is 278.26 km², population is 100,656 (2012), and population density 362 persons per km². Administrative center of the district is Feldkirch.\nThe district is divided into 24 municipalities, one of them is a town, and three of them are market towns.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189140", "title": "Mount Zuqualla", "text": "Mount Zuqualla\n\nMount Zuqualla (also spelled Zuquala or Chuqqaala) is an extinct volcano in the Oromia region of Ethiopia. Situated in Ada'a Chukala woreda of the (East) Shewa Zone, it rises from the plain south of Bushooftuu. With a height of , it is known for its crater lake, lake Dembel, an elliptical crater lake with a maximum diameter of about one kilometer, but the trail around the crater is about 6 kilometers long. Both the mountain and the lake is a holy site to the Oromo living nearby. The ambivalent attitude regarding the holiness of the mountain is seen in the Oromo proverb: \"Those who live far away worship it, those who live nearby plow it.\"\n\nThe lake in the crater has an island Tulluu Irreechaa, said to have been founded by Abba Gadaa of Tuulama on the site of a hermitage used by Saint Mercurius. This monastery was destroyed, and a church at the foot of the mountain looted, by Imam Ahmad Gragn in 1531; two churches were later built at the monastery, one dedicated to St Gebre Menfas built by Menelik II in 1880 and designed by the Italian Sebastian Castagna, and the other dedicated to Kidane Mihret built during the reign of Haile Selassie. Various other holy sites are found around the mountain, mostly rock formations, while the monastery is the site of a biannual festival.\n\nThe explorers Orazio Antinori, Antonelli and Antonio Cecchi used Zuqualla to determine various geographical locations in May 1881. Dr Scott, on behalf of Cambridge University and the British Museum, secured a large and valuable entomological collection near Zuqualla in 1926. Three of the leaders of the attempted 1960 Ethiopian coup fled to Zuqualla from the capital, where the Moja family had land. Two of them lost their lives 24 December while Mengistu Neway, seriously wounded, was captured and brought to the capital for trial.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189143", "title": "Agent Aika", "text": "Agent Aika\n\nFollowing a catastrophic earthquake twenty years prior, Tokyo, along with most of the world, has sunk into the ocean during a large-scale land subsidence. Aika Sumeragi is a salvage agent, a person who digs up submerged artifacts from the cities below. She works for a small company run by Gozo Aida, and takes on fairly dangerous jobs. In the first story, she and Gozo's daughter Rion, search for material called the Lagu. However they are captured by Rudolf Hagen, an effeminate but over-sexed man who wants to use the Lagu to transform the world, destroying its inhabitants, and replacing them with an army of young women called the Delmo Corporation who will carry his progeny. Alongside Rudolf is his obsessive sister Neena Hagen, who is jealous of Aika when Rudolf desires to have Aika for himself. Aika has a special bustier that, when activated, transforms into a battle bikini that gives her extraordinary fighting powers. Following the defeat of the Hagens, the Delmo Corporation girls seek other methods to foil Aika in episodic stories.\n\nThe Delmo Corps, also referred as the , is a group of pretty ladies headed by Rudolf Hagen who serve as his private army and to propagate his genetic material once he wipes out humanity from the Earth. Some of them work ordinary jobs like guides and waitresses, but they mainly act in espionage activities. Following Hagen's defeat in the first half of the series, the Delmogeny continue to function with the goals of capturing Aika and studying her special powers. They wear various colored uniforms from lowest-rank black to the highest-rank white, although, for the most part, they wear the same color white panties.\n\n\nThe first four episodes were released from April 25, 1997 to January 25, 1998. The opening theme for the first four episodes was \"Silent City\", performed by Mari Sasaki, and the closing theme was \"More Natural\" by Hiroko Konishi. Each episode is numbered as a Trial.\n\nThe next three episodes were released from August 25, 1998 to April 25, 1999. The animation was redone to include the new characters such as Michikusa. The opening theme was by Mink, and the closing theme was \"Dance with Me Tonight\" by Punky Fruites.\n\nIn reviewing the first volume, Chris Beveridge on Mania.com wrote that he had to put his brain in a certain mode, likening the experience to watching \"Dumb and Dumber\" where \"Instead of idiot humor we're watching this for the sheer amount of fanservice.\" with its \"four gajillion panty shots\" and that it was a \"great deal of mindless fun\". He described Michikusa as \"a waifish goofy ass boy who serves only one purpose: to be on screen and take time away from panty shots.\"\n\nStig Hogset of THEM Anime Reviews wrote that the show should have been a guilty pleasure but ends up being more of an overdose: \"EVERY action scene seems to end up with unconscious females lying with their butts poking up into the air.\" He called the villains the creepiest he has ever seen, but recommended the show only to those with a panty or ass fetish. The Anime News Network reviewer wrote that \"It's as if someone tried to make the most perverted anime they could without anyone actually being in any sexual situations. (Okay, so there are some.)\", later adding that \"The dub is weak and mistimed, and some of the minor characters just plain can't act.\" and recommended that the viewer watch titles from the company's Anime 18 productions instead. Todd Douglass Jr. of DVD Talk likened Aika's transformation to that in \"Cutie Honey\" and called the series the \"epitome of guilty pleasure anime\". He found the show to be solid-looking with fantastic animation and character design. With regards to the audio, he thought the Japanese cast did a much better job with the material than the English cast, writing that the latter was \"particularly bland and it didn't maintain the necessary spark for this kind of show.\"\n"}
{"id": "2189146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189146", "title": "Derviş Zaim", "text": "Derviş Zaim\n\nDerviş Zaim (born Derviş Zaimağaoğlu in 1964) is a Turkish Cypriot filmmaker and novelist, who has twice won the Golden Orange for Best Director for \"Elephants and Grass\" (2000) and \"Dot (2008)\"; Golden Oranges for Best Film and Best Screenplay for \"Somersault in a Coffin\" (1996); and the Yunus Nadi literary prize for his debut novel \"Ares in Wonderland\" (1995).\n\nDerviş Zaim was educated at Famagusta Namık Kemal High School and graduated in Business Administration from Boğaziçi University in 1988. He attended a course in independent film production in London and made experimental video \"Hang the Camera\" (1991). He subsequently wrote, produced and directed numerous television programs starting with the documentary \"Rock around the Mosque\" (1993). He completed his master's degree in Cultural Studies at the University of Warwick in 1994. His first novel, \"Ares in Wonderland\" (1995), won the prestigious Yunus Nadi literary prize in Turkey.\n\n\"Somersault in a Coffin\" (1996) was his debut as director and screenwriter, which won awards at film festivals in Antalya, Montpellier, San Francisco, Thessalonika and Torino. He followed it with \"Elephants and Grass\" (2000), which won awards at film festivals in Antalya and Istanbul, and \"Mud\" (2003), which won the UNESCO Award at the Venice Film Festival.\n\nHe co-directed the documentary \"Parallel Trips\" (2004) with Panicos Chrysanthou, in which the two directors, from opposite sides of the divided island of Cyprus, recorded the human dramas that unfolded during the war of 1974 and the legacy that remains today. He later produced the Greek Cypriot director's fictional feature debut \"Akamas\" (2006) about a love affair between a Turkish Cypriot and Greek Cypriot.\n\nHe made a trilogy of films, themed around traditional Turkish arts, consisting of \"Waiting for Heaven\" (2006), which was nominated for the Golden Tulip at the Istanbul International Film Festival, \"Dot\" (2008), which won awards at film festivals in Antalya and Istanbul, and \"Shadows and Faces\" (2010), which won the Turkish Film Critics Association Award at the 47th International Antalya Golden Orange Film Festival.\n\nHe also teaches at Bilgi University and Boğaziçi University.\n"}
{"id": "2189154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189154", "title": "Suhayl Saadi", "text": "Suhayl Saadi\n\nSuhayl Saadi (born 1961, Beverley, Yorkshire) is a physician, author and dramatist based in Glasgow, Scotland. His varied literary output includes novels, short stories, anthologies of fiction, song lyrics, plays for stage and radio theatre, and wisdom pieces for \"The Dawn Patrol,\" the Sarah Kennedy show on BBC Radio 2.\n\nSaadi's 2004 novel, \"Psychoraag,\" which won a PEN Oakland/Josephine Miles Literary Award, was also shortlisted for the James Tait Black Memorial Prize and nominated for both the International Dublin Literary Award and the National Literary Award (the Patras Bokhari Prize) in Pakistan.\n\nThe Scottish Book Trust designated \"Psychoraag\" one of the 100 Best Scottish Books of all time. The French translation was released in November 2007 by the Paris-based publisher Éditions Métailié.\n\nSuhayl Saadi has written about subjects as diverse as psychedelic music, Sufism, the British pantomime, the future of creativity, and the relationship of literature to global politics, for many periodicals, including \"The Independent,\" \"The Times,\" \"The Herald,\" \"The Sunday Herald,\" \"The Scotsman,\" and \"Spike Magazine,\" and for the British Council. His short story collection, \"The Burning Mirror,\" was shortlisted for the Saltire Society First Book Prize in 2001.\n\nSaadi has written stage and radio plays including \"The Dark Island\", \"The White Cliffs\" and \"Saame Sita.\" He has edited or co-edited a number of anthologies including \"Shorts: The Macallan Scotland on Sunday Short Story Collection;\" \"A Fictional Guide to Scotland;\" and \"Freedom Spring: Ten Years On,\" a compilation of new writing from South Africa and Scotland. He has appeared widely on television, radio and in public literary readings and is currently working on another novel.\n\nSuhayl Saadi has also written song lyrics for classical and folk-rock musical ensembles, including the Edinburgh-based Dunedin Consort, and for the Africa-centred World AIDS Day Project Paradisum. His work has appeared in translation in anthologies, as in 2006 in German in \"Cool Britannia\" (Al Kennedy, ed. Berlin: Verlag Klaus Wagenbach).\n\nAmong more recent works, Saadi wrote the libretto for \"Queens of Govan\", one of five short operas commissioned in 2007 by the Scottish Opera for its 2008 \"Five:15\" project.\n\nSaadi is a board member and co-director of the arts production company Heer Productions Limited, which established the Pakistani Film, Media and Arts Festival in the United Kingdom in 2005.\n\nDuring the month of October 2008, Saadi was the British Council Writer-in-Residence at George Washington University in Washington, D.C.\n\nA novel, \"Joseph's Box\", inspired by the Biblical/Quranic account of Joseph and Potiphar's wife, was published by Two Ravens Press in August 2009 and has been nominated for the IMPAC Dublin Literary Award 2011. The novel is set in Scotland, England, Sicily and Pakistan.\n\n\n\n\n\nSaadi was also a contributor to \"Pax Edina: The One O' Clock Gun Anthology\" (Edinburgh, 2010)\n\n\n→ \"Note on web searches: Saadi will occasionally be found misspelled as Saadhi.\"\nReviews and interviews relating to the novel, \"Joseph's Box\" can be located at the following sites:\n"}
{"id": "2189155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189155", "title": "Vorna Valley", "text": "Vorna Valley\n\nVorna Valley is a suburb of Midrand, South Africa. It is located in Region A of the City of Johannesburg Metropolitan Municipality.\n\nVorna Valley derives its name from the Galaun family's home village of Varniai (Vornia), Lithuania. Jacob and Michelle, Father and Mother of brothers Joseph, Israel, Louis, Harry, Abe and sisters Leah, Malka, Tzira and Zira, lived in Lithuania. Jacob owned a butchery and leased a piece of land on which they kept cattle. Michelle came from a cheese-making family. The Galaun family sold cheese as well as milk to supplement their income from their butchery.\n\nMany Jewish youths from Lithuania emigrated due to the military conscription, poverty and anti-semitism. Louis Galaun moved to South Africa where he established himself as an established property developer and owned a bottle store and land known as Halfway House. Louis eventually established the township of Vorna Valley in the 1970s.\n\nThe main arterial road was named after his brother, Harry Galaun. While other streets in the suburb were named after mainly South African artists, poets, writers, performers and influential people in the world of arts at that time.\n"}
{"id": "2189160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189160", "title": "Allmänna Idrottsklubben", "text": "Allmänna Idrottsklubben\n\nAllmänna Idrottsklubben (English: \"the public sports club\"), usually referred to as just AIK, is a professional sports club from Stockholm, Sweden. Founded in 1891, at the downtown address of Biblioteksgatan 8 in the district of Norrmalm, the club is the largest in Scandinavia. The club's achievements include Swedish championship titles in a slew of sports: football, ice hockey, bandy, handball, floorball, bowling, badminton, athletics and many other sports as well as Wimbledon championships and French Open in tennis (through Sven Davidson, Lennart Bergelin and Ulf Schmidt).\n\nThe idea to start an athletic association began when the brothers Isidor and Paul Behrens were taking a walk through Hantverkargatan, in central Stockholm. They were walking pretty fast; and noticed that there were two other youngsters behind them who also walked quickly. The strangers tried to walk past the Behrens, so they had to speed up to keep the lead; but the strangers did the same. Finally all of them started to run in what now looked like an improvised competition. When Isidor and Paul were far away from the unknown youngsters, Isidor said that they should start an athletic association and compete with others.\n\nSo the brothers gathered their friends, who had strong athletic interest, and held a meeting at Behrens' on February 15, 1891, on Biblioteksgatan 8, in central Stockholm. Isidor introduced his idea to everyone, and they liked it. Since the boys agreed that every thinkable sport should be practiced, they decided that “Allmänna Idrottsklubben” (The General Sports Club) would be a suitable name. The name also had other meanings: AIK allowed anybody to become a member; and at this time many athletic clubs were limited (e.g. the military).\n\nOn 5 February 1995, AIK became the first non-American sports club to promote an Internet website.\n\nDuring the 1980s and 1990s AIK's official supporter group Black Army raged havoc around the country, making headlines in national newspapers. As a result of Black Army's bad behaviour another supporter group was created in 2000, Allmänna Supporterklubben \"(the General Supporters Club)\", as an option to Black Army. In 2002 Allmänna Supporterklubben was renamed to the much more AIK related name \"Smokinglirarna\" \"(roughly, \"The Players\", literally \"the Black Tie Players\")\". In 2002 an ultras group was formed, Ultras Nord \"(Ultras North)\", and two years later, 2004, Sol Invictus was formed. Black Army, Smokinglirarna, Ultras Nord and Sol Invictus together with AIK-Tifo forms the so-called AIK-Alliansen \"(the AIK Alliance)\".\n\nCrown princess Victoria's spouse Daniel Westling and princess Madeleine's former boyfriend Jonas Bergström both are ardent AIK fans. From time to time the royal family visits the club's home matches. His Swedish Majesty Carl XVI Gustaf is an honorary member of the club (in line with family tradition), although he has stated that he is a fan of Djurgårdens IF, allegedly.\n\nAmong Swedish politicians the former party chairman of the Swedish Social Democratic Party Mona Sahlin is an AIK supporter as well as former Minister for Justice Thomas Bodström.\n\nThe Wallenberg family are also closely attached with AIK as a club, being one of the major share holders.\n\nThe chant used by AIK is \"Å vi é AIK\" (\"Oh we are AIK\" pronounced with a Stockholm dialect).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189164", "title": "Willaway", "text": "Willaway\n\nWillaway is a suburb of Johannesburg, South Africa. It is located in Region A of the City of Johannesburg Metropolitan Municipality.\n"}
{"id": "2189169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189169", "title": "The Music of Christmas", "text": "The Music of Christmas\n\nThe Music of Christmas is the first Christmas album by American contemporary Christian music singer and songwriter Steven Curtis Chapman. It was released on September 26, 1995.\n\nAll songs written and/or arranged by Steven Curtis Chapman, except where noted.\n\n\nProduction\n\nAlbum - \"Billboard\" (North America)\n"}
{"id": "2189170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189170", "title": "Witpoort", "text": "Witpoort\n\nWitpoort is a suburb of Johannesburg, South Africa. It is located in Region 2. Site of the Battle of Witpoort during the Second Boer War.\n"}
{"id": "2189172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189172", "title": "1964 California Proposition 14", "text": "1964 California Proposition 14\n\nCalifornia Proposition 14 was a November 1964 ballot proposition that amended the California state constitution, nullifying the Rumford Fair Housing Act. Proposition 14 was declared unconstitutional by the California Supreme Court in 1966. The decision of the California Supreme Court was affirmed by the U.S. Supreme Court in 1967 in \"Reitman v. Mulkey\".\n\nPolitical science research has tied white support for Proposition 14 to \"racial threat theory\", which holds that an increase in the racial minority population triggers a fearful and discriminatory response by the dominating racial majority.\n\nThe Rumford Fair Housing Act was passed in 1963 by the California Legislature to help end racial discrimination by property owners and landlords who refused to rent or sell their property to \"colored\" people. It was drafted by William Byron Rumford, the first African American from Northern California to serve in the legislature. The Act provided that landlords could not deny people housing because of ethnicity, religion, sex, marital status, physical handicap, or familial status.\n\nIn 1964, the California Real Estate Association sponsored an initiative to counteract the effects of the Act.\n\nThe initiative, numbered Proposition 14 when it was certified for the ballot, was to add an amendment (Cal. Const. art. I, § 26) to the constitution of California. This amendment would provide, in part, as follows:\n\nThe amendment attempted to re-legalize discrimination and associational privacy by landlords and property owners.\n\nFollowing much publicity the proposition gained the endorsement of many large conservative political groups, including the John Birch Society and the California Republican Assembly. As these and other groups endorsed the proposal it became increasingly more popular and the petition to have the proposition added to the ballot garnered over one million signatures. This was more than twice the 480,000 signatures that were required.\n\nIn endorsing Proposition 14, the \"Los Angeles Times\" stated: “One of man’s most ancient rights in a free society is the privilege of using and disposing of his private property in whatever manner he deems appropriate.” The editorial further stated: “But we do feel, and strongly, that housing equality cannot safely be achieved at the expense of still another basic right.”\n\nIn a letter-to-the-editor response to the \"Times\"' endorsement of Proposition 14, then-California Attorney General Stanley Mosk stated: “I oppose the segregation initiative. I oppose it because it sugar-coats bigotry with an appeal to generalities we can accept, while ignoring the specific problem that confronts us.”\n\nThe Proposition 14 campaign was heated and included several controversial comments from Edmund Brown who was the Governor of California at the time. Governor Brown stated that passage of Proposition 14 would put into California’s Constitution “a provision for discrimination of which not even Mississippi or Alabama can boast.” Previously, Governor Brown had likened the campaign for Proposition 14 to “another hate binge which began more than 30 years ago in a Munich beer hall.” In a letter to the editor response to several items published in the \"Los Angeles Times\" relating to Proposition 14, Governor Brown wrote: “I submit that it is not the Governor who is inflammatory. It is Proposition 14. And I submit that it is not the opponents of Proposition 14 who encourage the racists and bigots in this state, but those who support Proposition 14.”\n\nProposition 14 appeared on the November 3, 1964 general election ballot in California. The ballot proposition easily passed with 65.39% support, receiving 4,526,460 votes in support and 2,395,747 votes against.\n\nNotable counties voting in favor of Proposition 14 included: Alameda County (60.6% support), Contra Costa County (64.6% support), Los Angeles County (67.4% support), Marin County (52.2% support), Sacramento County (61.6% support), San Francisco County (52.9% support), San Mateo County (60.2% support), Santa Clara County (53.1% support), Santa Cruz County (58.5% support), Solano County (69.7% support), Sonoma County (61.8% support), and Yolo County (56.4% support).\n\nNotable cities voting in favor of Proposition 14 included: Alameda, Oakland, Richmond, Fresno, Inglewood, Long Beach, Los Angeles, Lynwood, Pasadena, Santa Monica, Salinas, Santa Ana, Palm Springs, Riverside, Sacramento, San Bernardino, San Francisco, San Mateo, Santa Barbara, San Jose, Santa Clara, Santa Cruz, Vallejo, Santa Rosa, Modesto, Oxnard, and Ventura.\n\nA 2018 study in the \"American Political Science Review\" found that white voters in areas which experienced massive African-American population growth between 1940 and 1960 were more likely to vote for Proposition 14. Political scientists have taken this as evidence for \"racial threat theory\", which holds that the rapid increase in a minority population triggers fears among the majority race population, leading the majority to impose higher levels of social control on the subordinate race.\n\nSoon after Proposition 14 was passed, the federal government cut off all housing funds to California. Many also cited the proposition as one of the causes of the Watts Riots of 1965.\n\nWith the federal housing funds cut off and with the support of Governor Pat Brown, the constitutionality of the measure was challenged soon afterward. In 1966, the California Supreme Court did not consider whether Proposition 14 was unconstitutional because it violated the equal protection and due process provisions of the California Constitution; instead, it held that Proposition 14 violated the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the federal Constitution. Gov. Brown's stance proved controversial; later in 1966, he was defeated in his bid for re-election by Ronald Reagan. However, Reagan opposed both Proposition 14 and the Rumford Act, and stated that Proposition 14 was “not a wise measure.” Reagan labeled the Rumford Act as an attempt \"to give one segment of our population a right at the expense of the basic rights of all our citizens.\"\n\nHowever, the case continued. The U.S. Supreme Court affirmed the California Supreme Court's decision in \"Reitman v. Mulkey\" (1967), holding that Proposition 14 was invalid because it violated the equal protection clause. The proposition was repealed by Proposition 7 in the November, 1974 election.\n\n\"Reitman\" established a significant precedent because it held that state assistance or encouragement of private discrimination violated the equal protection guarantee of the Fourteenth Amendment.\n"}
{"id": "2189174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189174", "title": "Derrick Sherwin", "text": "Derrick Sherwin\n\nDerrick George Sherwin (16 April 1936 – 17 October 2018) was an English television producer, writer, story editor and actor. After beginning his career in the theatre, Sherwin became an actor in television before moving into writing. He became the story editor on \"Doctor Who\" and, as the producer of the series in 1969, he oversaw the transition from black and white to colour by producing Patrick Troughton's final story and Jon Pertwee's first. He also co-produced \"Paul Temple\" for the BBC.\n\nSherwin began his career in the theatre and worked as a junior set designer, scenic artist, scene shifter, stage manager and lighting designer. He also spent two years of National Service in the Royal Air Force. Following this, Sherwin established himself as an actor in theatre, films and television. While still working as an actor, Sherwin also began work as a freelance writer, contributing scripts to series such as \"Crossroads\" and \"Z-Cars\".\n\nIn 1967, Sherwin was offered a story-editing role on \"Doctor Who\" by BBC Head of Serials Shaun Sutton. He was story editor/script editor on the stories from \"The Web of Fear\" to \"The Mind Robber\", on the latter tale writing the first episode. He also wrote the script for \"The Invasion\", which introduced the United Nations Intelligence Taskforce (UNIT), having adapted the original storyline supplied by Kit Pedler.\n\nIn 1968-1969, Sherwin began to take a greater role in the producing side of \"Doctor Who\", and after the serial \"The Mind Robber\", he became the unofficial assistant producer for the next three serials, with Terrance Dicks succeeding him as script editor. On \"The Space Pirates\", Sherwin briefly resumed his old role as script editor, while Dicks was busy writing the epic 10-part season finale \"The War Games\" with Malcolm Hulke. Dicks credited Sherwin with the creation of the Time Lords, who were introduced in \"The War Games\".\n\nSherwin succeeded Peter Bryant as producer in 1969 for the serials \"The War Games\" and \"Spearhead from Space\". Sherwin was also involved in the casting of Jon Pertwee in the lead role on the programme. He made a small on-screen appearance as a car park attendant in \"Spearhead from Space\" as he was still a member of the actors' union. He had dismissed the actor originally cast in the part for not being able to perform the role adequately.\n\nSherwin was responsible for the idea of exiling the Doctor to Earth (which happens at the end of the Second Doctor's last serial, \"The War Games\"), a decision he took in an attempt to improve falling viewing figures, reinvent the programme and bring more reality to \"Doctor Who\" by basing it more on Nigel Kneale's \"Quatermass\" serials from the 1950s. For this purpose, Sherwin created the United Nations Intelligence Taskforce (UNIT) in \"The Invasion\" as an organisation that the Doctor could become allied to on Earth during his exile. UNIT became a prominent feature of \"Doctor Who\" throughout the Third Doctor's era, when \"Doctor Who\" was produced by Sherwin's successor, Barry Letts. Sherwin left \"Doctor Who\" after Jon Pertwee's debut serial, \"Spearhead from Space\".\n\nAfter leaving \"Doctor Who\", Sherwin maintained connections with the series. When Michael Grade attempted to cancel it in 1985, Sherwin offered to “take it off [his] hands” and “produce it independently”, and also claimed to have done this a second time with Peter Cregeen, the man responsible for \"Doctor Who\"’s actual cancellation in 1989. He later contributed to several documentaries for the \"Doctor Who\" DVD range, as well as providing commentaries for the two stories he produced and surviving episodes of \"The Web of Fear\" and \"The Wheel in Space\" for the \"Lost in Time\" collection.\n\nAfter \"Doctor Who\", Sherwin once again worked alongside Peter Bryant, after Bryant successfully persuaded Sherwin to join him on the production of \"Paul Temple\" (1969-1971). Sherwin later produced \"The Man Outside\" (1972), \"Ski-Boy\" (1973), and \"The Perils of Pendragon\" (1974).\n\nDerrick Sherwin died on 17 October 2018 following a long illness.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189176", "title": "Ferdinand Deppe", "text": "Ferdinand Deppe\n\nFerdinand Deppe (1794–1861) was a German naturalist, explorer and painter. He was born and died in Berlin.\n\nDeppe travelled to Mexico in 1824. He collected natural history specimens for the Berlin Museum with Count von Sack and William Bullock. He also collected in California and Hawaii on his way home in 1830. Some of his American flies were described by Christian Rudolph Wilhelm Wiedemann in \"Aussereuropäische Zweiflügelige Insekten\" published in Hamm (1828–1830).\n\nIn the field of herpetology, he is commemorated in the specific epithets of \"Abronia deppii\" (Deppe's arboreal alligator lizard), \"Aspidoscelis deppii\" (blackbelly racerunner), \"Pituophis deppei\" (Mexican pine snake), and \"Tantilla deppei\" (Deppe's centipede snake). His name is also associated with Deppe's squirrel (\"Sciurus deppei\" ) and \"Oxalis deppei\", the so-called \"lucky four-leaf clover\".\n\nHe was the younger brother of Wilhelm Deppe, an accountant with the zoological museum of Berlin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189183", "title": "Heaven in the Real World", "text": "Heaven in the Real World\n\nHeaven in the Real World is the sixth studio album by American contemporary Christian music singer and songwriter Steven Curtis Chapman released on July 12, 1994, by Sparrow Records.\n\nIt was certified gold by the end of the year, nominated for a 1995 Grammy award, and went platinum on February 7, 1997. The title song received the 1995 Gospel Music Association award for best Pop/Contemporary Song of the Year, and the album earned Pop/Contemporary Album of the Year, at the 25th GMA Dove Awards.\n\nAll songs written by Steven Curtis Chapman, except where noted.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189185", "title": "Eagletown, Oklahoma", "text": "Eagletown, Oklahoma\n\nEagletown is a small unincorporated community and census-designated place in McCurtain County, Oklahoma, United States. The population was 528 at the 2010 census. Located on Mountain Fork River, about from the Oklahoma-Arkansas border, it was the first permanent Choctaw settlement in the Indian Territory, who called it \"osi yamaha\" (\"Eagle\"). It was an important town from 1834 to 1906, and after 1850, served as county seat for the Choctaw Nation's Eagle County. The town name was officially changed to \"Eagle Town\" in 1850, then changed to the present Eagletown in 1892. When Indian Territory was preparing to unite with Oklahoma Territory to form the new state of Oklahoma in 1906, Eagletown lost its county seat status and became just another unincorporated community in the new McCurtain County.\n\nSome white settlers had moved to the area near Mountain Fork River around the present Eagletown during the early 19th Century, when the area was known as Miller County, Arkansas. but a boundary change in the 1820s put this area into Indian Territory. The white settlers were forced to move elsewhere in order to resettle the Choctaw tribe from Mississippi. When the first Choctaws arrived in 1832, they found fields that had been cleared for farming and cabins that had housed the previous inhabitants. As required by treaty, the Army established a feeding point here for the distribution of rations. An estimated 852 people were receiving rations here in April 1832. By 1834, the number of people here had grown by 1,500.\n\nThe Choctaws invited some of the white missionaries to join them in the move to Indian Territory. The first of these was Rev. Loring S. Williams, who was sent by the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions in 1832. By July 1832, Williams established a station he called Bethabara on the west bank of the Mountain Fork River. The crossing was marked by a very large cypress tree that was called \"the oldest tree in Oklahoma\", dating back to before the Christian Era. He organized the first church in Choctaw country in 1834 and opened a school the next year. He also obtained the authority to establish a post office in 1834, and served as the first postmaster. The post office and the town were then known as \"Eagle Town.\" The name of both was officially changed to \"Eagletown\" on December 16, 1892. Another missionary, Reverend Cyrus Byington, arrived in late 1835. Byington spent 31 years here, and was noted for translating both religious and secular materials into a written Choctaw language that he created. He established the Stockbridge Mission on the other (east) side of the river from Bethabara. He was most noted for producing the \"Dictionary of the Choctaw Language\". Byington also supervised the adjacent Iyanubbi Female Seminary, a boarding school for Choctaw girls that operated from 1844 until 1861.\n\nEagletown soon became a trading center on the Military Trace, an important road through Choctaw Country. After the Choctaw Nation created and passed its constitution in 1850, Eagletown became the \"courtground\" (i. e., county seat) of the newly created Eagle County. Jefferson Gardner, a Choctaw trader, opened a general store in 1874 on the east bank of the river. In 1884, built an imposing house that is now on the National Register of Historic Places (NRHP). Gardner became principal chief of the Choctaw Nation, but lost his fortune shortly after his term ended in 1896.\n\nAfter Oklahoma became a state, more white settlers moved into the former Choctaw territory. Eagle County had been abolished and superseded by McCurtain County at statehood. Some of the settlers became farmers, while others worked in the expanding timber industry. Choctaw Lumber Company built a camp in Eagletown to house the timberworkers. The company also built a railroad (the Texas, Oklahoma and Eastern) that connected to its line in Arkansas.\n\nThe Texas, Oklahoma and Eastern Railroad laid a track from Valliant, Oklahoma to DeQueen, Arkansas in 1920. It built a depot southeast of the river crossing. Many of the existing Eagleton businesses moved to new facilities near the new depot. Little remains of the old Eagle Town except the Gardner house.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189189", "title": "Bale Mountains", "text": "Bale Mountains\n\nThe Bale Mountains (also known as the Urgoma Mountains), in the Oromia Region of southeast Ethiopia, south of the Awash River, are part of the Ethiopian Highlands. They include Tullu Demtu, the second-highest mountain in Ethiopia (4377 meters), and Mount Batu (4307 meters). The Weyib River, a tributary of the Jubba River, rises in these mountains east of Goba. The Bale Mountains National Park covers 2,200 square kilometers of these mountains. The main attractions of the park are the wild alpine scenery, and the relative ease with which visitors can see unique birds and mammals.\n\nThe Bale Mountains are home to many of Ethiopia's endemic animals, notably the Ethiopian wolf (\"Canis simensis\"), found on the Sanetti Plateau. The park also contains the Harenna Forest, situated to the south of the mountains, which is a largely unexplored area thought to contain many undiscovered species of reptile as well as lions, leopards and various types of antelope. Besides wildlife, the National Park offers trekking opportunities from the park headquarters at Dinsho. (Dodola is also a useful base for exploring these mountains.)\n\nThe largest group of Ethiopian wolves is found here. Other characteristic large mammals are mountain nyalas, Menelik's bushbucks, warthogs, and bohor reedbucks.\n\nThe Juniper-Hagenia forests lie between 2,500 and 3,300 m and are mostly found on the northern slopes. An unusual plant of the Dinsho area is the white-flowered Abyssinian rose. The alpine moorland of the Saneti Plateau is covered in heath-like vegetation broken by heather plants and stands of giant lobelia which grow up to 6 meters high. One of the most common and distinctive plants throughout the Bale region is the red-hot poker, an aloe which can be identified by its orange spear-shaped flowers.\n\nArchaeologists have discovered a 30,000-year-old Middle-Stone Age rock shelter at the Fincha Habera site in Bale Mountains of Ethiopia over 11,000 feet above sea level in 2019. According to the study published Science journal, this dwelling was the earliest proof of the highest-altitude of human occupation. Thousands of animal bones, hundreds of stone tools, and ancient fireplaces were revealed on the ground.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189200", "title": "Ktsap", "text": "Ktsap\n\nKitsap or Ktsap (died April 18, 1860) was a war chief of the Suquamish Native American tribe. One source says that he was the most powerful chief on Puget Sound from 1790 to 1845. Kitsap County, Washington and the Kitsap Peninsula are named for him.\n\nHe was an ancestor of Johnny Kitsap, 1908, also known as Chief Kitsap.\n\nHaving been prominent before white settlement of Puget Sound began, oral history is the only basis for most of what can be said about Kitsap, and many reports offer conflicting information. He may have been one of the Indians who was welcomed aboard HMS \"Discovery\" by Captain George Vancouver during his exploration of Puget Sound. Some sources indicate that it was Kitsap who had Old Man House, Puget Sound's largest longhouse, built on Agate Pass, though other sources debate this.\n\nAside from being one of the best-known war chiefs of the Suquamish, at one point Kitsap was acknowledged as the head of the largest intertribal coalition which the Puget Sound had ever seen. Around 1825, The Puget Sound Indians, not normally organized above the level of individual bands, formed a confederation under Kitsap to strike against the Cowichan Tribes of southeast Vancouver Island, who often raided the Puget Sound. However, Kitsap's flotilla was no match for the larger canoes of the Cowichans; after suffering heavy losses in the sea battle, the Puget Sound Indians were forced to retreat. Kitsap was one of the few survivors of this ill-fated expedition.\n\nSources suggest that Kitsap was the brother of Schweabe, the father of Chief Seattle.\n\nAnother Kitsap, a leader of the Muckleshoot tribe, was prominent in the Indian War of 1855–1856. Like his comrade in arms, Chief Leschi, Kitsap was arrested for the part he played in the hostilities, but he was acquitted. Known to boast of his healing skills and his supposed invincibility (he claimed that no man could kill him), Kitsap of the Muckleshoot was killed shortly after returning to his tribe in 1860. Three of his tribesmen had fallen ill, and died after he administered them a red liquid as medicine; their relations killed Kitsap to avenge what they saw as willful murder.\n"}
{"id": "2189201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189201", "title": "Crouch Cars", "text": "Crouch Cars\n\nCrouch Cars was a company founded by JWF Crouch in Coventry, England in 1912 which manufactured cars until 1928. It was located at first in Bishop Street moving in 1914 to Cook Street.\n\nThe first model, the Carette was a three-wheeled cyclecar with a side-valve, water-cooled Crouch V-twin engine of 740 cc mounted behind the seats. It was of unconventional appearance with a low, wide radiator. The chassis frame was of ash with metal armouring and the drive was to the single rear wheel via a three-speed gearbox and chain. It cost around a £100 and was claimed to be capable of and . Later in 1912 it was also available as a four-wheeler with the engine enlarged to 906 cc. In 1913 it grew to 994 cc and in 1914 to 1018 cc. One of the cars gained a Gold Medal in the 1912 London-Exeter trial. When production restarted after the war the model became known as the 8 with the engine now displacing 1115 cc. The last one may have been made as late as 1922 when it cost £245.\n\nIn 1922 a more conventional car came along, the 8/18, still a two-seater and dickey, with pressed steel chassis and shaft drive. The V-twin engine was retained, however, but now with overhead-valves and 1248 cc capacity. It was listed at £285. About 1500 V-twin cars are thought to have been made after the First World War and possibly 400 before 1914.\n\nWith other manufacturers offering four-seat cars at less money it was necessary for Crouch to change and in 1922 the 12/24 was announced at £350 for a four-seater and £335 for a two-seater with four-cylinder Anzani 1496 cc engine and three-speed gearbox. An electric starter was fitted. A Sports and Super Sports were listed and one of these were raced at Brooklands by Alfred Moss, the father of Stirling Moss, who sold the cars from his London premises. About 800 12/24s are thought to have been made.\n\nThe cars were still expensive, and so in 1923 the Economic 10/4 10 hp model was announced at £250, using a four-cylinder Dorman side-valve engine of 1200 cc. It was not terribly successful and only about 60 were made.\n\nFor 1925 the 12/24 became the 12/30, the Economic vanished and what was to be the final car the 11/27 was announced. This had a 1368 cc Coventry Simplex four-cylinder side-valve engine and was priced between £225 and £285. About 100 11/27s were made.\n\nThe company disappeared with many others as a result of the Great Depression, and the rise of mass-produced small cars which could comfortably undersell the largely hand-built small-makers models. A failed export order did not help.\n\nOf the approximately 3000 cars made, only about five are known to have survived.\n\nAt its peak Crouch employed about 400 people and turned out 25 cars a week. John Crouch, the founder, had trained with Daimler, and his son Bob worked there after the family firm closed. He eventually became head of bus sales.\n\nCrouch Cars of England had no connection with Crouch of New Brighton, Pennsylvania, USA, who manufactured steam cars between 1897 and 1900.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189209", "title": "De facto corporation and corporation by estoppel", "text": "De facto corporation and corporation by estoppel\n\nIn order for a \"de facto\" corporation to be created, the following elements must exist:\n\n\nIf all of these requirements are met, then the business will be treated as a corporation for all purposes, except with respect to acts by the state itself. However, most states will not apply this doctrine to protect a person who was \"aware\" that the incorporation effort was defective at the time that they purported to act on behalf of the corporation.\n\nCorporation by estoppel, on the other hand, applies against someone who operates a business \"as if it were\" a limited liability entity or corporation, irrespective of whether there was a good faith effort by the business to incorporate. The person doing business with such an entity, as if it were a limited liability entity or corporation, may later be estopped from arguing that it is not in fact a limited liability entity, in an attempt to reach the assets of the incorporators. For the same reason, defendants who had acted as a corporation will be estopped from denying liability as a corporation when sued by a plaintiff who had relied on the defendant's corporate form when dealing with the defendant.\n\nBoth doctrines are applicable in the contract context but the estoppel concept typically does not apply where tort liability is sought because knowledge of corporate existence is irrelevant to the commission of tort. The harm caused by a tortious act normally does not depend on knowledge, or lack thereof, of a corporation's existence.\n"}
{"id": "2189221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189221", "title": "Saviorz Day", "text": "Saviorz Day\n\nSaviorz Day is the second official album by hip hop group Sunz of Man.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189224", "title": "Peter Bryant", "text": "Peter Bryant\n\nPeter Bryant (27 October 1923 – 19 May 2006) was an English television producer, script editor and former actor. He acted in \"The Grove Family\" as a regular cast member and later became the producer of \"Doctor Who\" from 1967 to 1969 during Patrick Troughton's tenure as the Second Doctor. He also produced the series \"Paul Temple\" before becoming a literary agent.\n\nBryant was originally an actor and appeared in the 1950s soap opera \"The Grove Family\". Later, he became a BBC Radio announcer while writing radio scripts as a sideline. This led to him becoming a script editor in the Radio Drama Department and eventually the head of the Drama Script Unit. In 1967 he transferred from radio to television, where head of serials Shaun Sutton put him to work with script editor Gerry Davis on \"Doctor Who\" as a \"Story Associate\" then story editor.\n\nHaving acted as associate producer on \"The Faceless Ones\" and \"The Evil of the Daleks\", Bryant was tested out as full producer for \"The Tomb of the Cybermen\", replacing Innes Lloyd, and later became full-time producer for the later Patrick Troughton stories from \"The Web of Fear\" to \"The Space Pirates\". Bryant was also the script editor on the last 4 episodes of \"The Evil of the Daleks\" and the whole of \"The Abominable Snowmen\", \"The Ice Warriors\" and \"The Enemy of the World\". One of Bryant's last contributions to \"Doctor Who\" was the casting in June 1969 of Jon Pertwee as the Third Doctor. After the casting of Jon Pertwee as the new Doctor, Bryant left \"Doctor Who\" to become the new producer of \"Paul Temple\", following the departure of Alan Bromly. Bryant soon brought over Derrick Sherwin to join him on \"Paul Temple\". Bryant and Sherwin had previously worked together on \"Doctor Who\".\n\nBryant later became a literary agent to writers and a casting agent to actors. One of his clients was Eric Pringle, who wrote the \"Doctor Who\" story \"The Awakening\".\n\nBryant was married to actress Shirley Cooklin, who appeared in the \"Doctor Who\" serial \"The Tomb of the Cybermen\", but they eventually divorced.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189227", "title": "Thomas de Mahy, Marquis de Favras", "text": "Thomas de Mahy, Marquis de Favras\n\nThomas de Mahy, marquis de Favras (March 26, 1744 – February 19, 1790) was a French aristocrat and supporter of the House of Bourbon during the French Revolution. Often seen as a martyr of the Royalist cause, Favras was executed for his part in \"planning against the people of France\" under the Comte de Provence. He is known for his last words, \"I see that you have made three spelling mistakes\", upon the reading of his death sentence warrant.\n\nBorn in Favras near Blois, he belonged to an impoverished family whose nobility dated from the 12th century. At seventeen he was a captain of dragoons, and saw some service in the closing campaign of the Seven Years' War. In 1772 he became a first lieutenant in the Swiss Guards of King Louis XVI's younger brother, the Comte de Provence. Unable to meet the expenses of his rank, which was equivalent to that of a colonel in the army, he retired in 1775.\n\nIn 1776, Favras married Victoria Hedwig Karoline, Princess of Anhalt-Bernburg-Schaumburg, whose mother, after being deserted by her husband Karl Louis, Prince of Anhalt-Bernburg-Schaumburg-Hoym in 1749, had found refuge with her daughter in the house of Charles de Rohan, prince de Soubise. After his marriage, Favras went to Vienna to attempt the restitution of his wife's rights, and spent some time in Warsaw. In 1787 he was authorized to raise a \"patriotic legion\" to help the Dutch Republic against the Stadtholder William V and his Prussian allies.\n\nReturning to Paris in 1789, he became involved in Royalist plans initiated by his former employer, the Comte de Provence, to save the King and end the French Revolution. In order to finance this venture, Provence (using one of his gentlemen, the Comte de la Châtre, as an intermediary) commissioned Favras to negotiate a loan of 2,000,000 French francs from the bankers Schaumel and Sartorius.\n\nIt was stated in a leaflet circulated throughout Paris on December 23, 1789 that Favras had been hired by the Comte de Provence to organize an elaborate plot against the people of France. In this plot, the King, Queen and their children were to be rescued from the Tuileries Palace and spirited out of the country. Then the Comte de Provence was to be declared regent of the kingdom with absolute power. Simultaneously, a force of 30,000 soldiers was to encircle Paris. In the ensuing confusion, the city's three main liberal leaders (Jacques Necker, the popular Finance Minister of France, Jean Sylvain Bailly, the mayor of Paris, and the Marquis de La Fayette, the commander of the city's new National Guard) were to be assassinated. Afterwards, the revolutionary city was to be starved into submission by cutting off its food supplies. As a consequence of the leaflet, Favras and his wife were arrested the next day, and imprisoned in the Abbaye Prison. Terrified of the consequences of the arrest, the Comte de Provence hastened to publicly disavow Favras, in a speech delivered before the Commune of Paris, and in a letter to the National Constituent Assembly.\n\nA fortnight after the arrest, Favras and his wife were separated, and Favras was removed to the Grand Châtelet. In the course of a trial that lasted nearly two months, witnesses disagreed about the facts concerning the case and evidence was lacking. Even Sylvain Maréchal, the anarchist editor of the republican newspaper \"Révolutions de Paris\", admitted that the evidence against Favras was insufficient. However, an armed attempt to free him by some Royalists on January 26, which was thwarted by La Fayette, aroused the suspicion of the Parisians, and on February 18, 1790, in spite of a notable defense plea, Favras was sentenced to be hanged.\n\nAfter he had previously implicated others in the conspiracy (most notably, the Comte d'Antraigues), Favras offered to give further information to the authorities on the plot's details and participants if reprieved but, denied that, refused to reveal more. His sentence was carried out in the Place de Grève the next day - a measure which was received with enthusiasm by members of the Parisian population, since it was the first instance when no distinction in the mode of execution was allowed between noble and commoner. Upon the reading of his death warrant, he remarked, \"I see that you have made three spelling mistakes.\"\n\nFavras was generally regarded as a martyr to the Royalist cause for his refusal to implicate the Comte de Provence, and Madame de Favras was given a pension by Louis XVI. She left France, and her son Charles de Favras served in the Habsburg and the Imperial Russian armies. Under the Bourbon Restoration, Charles received an allowance from Louis XVIII. Her daughter Caroline married Rudiger, Freiherr von Stillfried und Rathenitz in 1805.\n\nThe official dossier of Favras' trial for high treason against the nation disappeared from the Châtelet, but its substance is preserved in the papers of a clerk.\n"}
{"id": "2189228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189228", "title": "Duffel bag", "text": "Duffel bag\n\nA duffel bag, duffle bag, or kit bag is a large bag made of natural or synthetic fabric (typically canvas), historically with a top closure using a drawstring. Generally a duffel bag is used by non-commissioned personnel in the military, and for travel, sports and recreation by civilians. When used by sailors or marines a duffel is known as a seabag. A duffel's open structure and lack of rigidity makes it adaptable to carrying sports gear and similar bulky objects.\n\nA duffel bag is often confused with a hoop-handled hard-bottomed zippered bag, known generically as a gym bag.\n\nThe name comes from Duffel, a town in Flanders, Belgium, where the thick duffel cloth used to make the bag originated in the 17th century. According to the \"Oxford English Dictionary\", the word dates back to 1677, used to describe ‘a coarse woollen cloth having a thick nap or frieze’. In most of the 20th century, a \"duffel bag\" typically referred to a specific style of cylindrical, top-entry bag. During the latter part the term began to be applied to a generic hoop-handled, hard-bottomed fabric holdall more commonly known as a \"gym bag\". It is to this bag that additional features such as wheels, zippers, internal structure, and small organizing pockets are often added.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189235", "title": "Love, Hell or Right", "text": "Love, Hell or Right\n\nLove Hell or Right (Da Come Up) is an album by the hip hop producer DJ Mathematics, who is a DJ with Wu-Tang Clan.\n\nCompletely mixed, arranged and produced by Mathematics himself, \"Love, Hell or Right\" was released August 26, 2003, on his own Quewisha Records label in conjunction with High Times Records, and it went on to sell 30,000 units. It was released in CD, vinyl and cassette tape formats.\n\nThe title is a reference to the Nation of Gods and Earths's Supreme Alphabet, in which the letter \"L\" is seen to stand for \"Love Hell or Right\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2189240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189240", "title": "Duke Erikson", "text": "Duke Erikson\n\nDouglas Elwin \"Duke\" Erikson (born January 15, 1951, in Nebraska) is an American musician, songwriter, screenwriter, film producer and record producer, best known as a co-founder and guitarist in the alternative rock band Garbage. Garbage has sold more than 17 million albums worldwide.\n\nDuke Erikson was born in Lyons, a small rural community in Nebraska. His first musical instrument was the piano, and his second was the guitar. At the age of 16 he joined his first band, The British, which was inspired by his passion for the British beat movement. Erikson operated the light show for The British which was constructed out of a cigar box and door hangers. \"I ran that with my left hand while I played Farfisa organ with my right,\" he commented.\n\nWhen Erikson completed high school, he attended Wayne State College where he studied drawing and painting, ultimately becoming a teaching assistant.\n\nErikson formed the rock band Spooner in 1974 with two fellow musicians in Madison, Wisconsin. Erikson sang lead vocals, played keyboards and guitar, and became the band's principal songwriter, his compositions being described by \"City Lights\" as \"strangely seductive\" and \"immediately draw[ing] in the listener\". Spooner became a quartet when Butch Vig joined them on drums. Spooner released two well-received albums, \"Every Corner Dance\" and \"The Wildest Dreams\", and toured across the Midwest. \"Rolling Stone\" magazine called their debut album \"a convincing collection of sparkling pop music\", to which \"Erikson's edgy, poetic slice-of-small-town-life lyrics add a genuine, idiosyncratic touch\".\n\nIn 1983, Erikson helped Vig and Steve Marker establish Smart Studios in Madison, where he helped to design the studio interior and where he has carried out engineering, production and remixing work for a series of local and international rock artists.\n\nIn 1986, Erikson collaborated again with Vig to form the garage-rock band Fire Town, in which he played guitar and contributed vocals. The band released two albums, \"In the Heart of the Heart Country\" and \"The Good Life\", the latter on Atlantic Records. \"Rolling Stone\" praised their debut as \"a striking, thoughtful album\" with \"killer harmonies\".\n\nWhile Fire Town had disbanded by 1989, Spooner had an unexpected late resurgence: their single \"Mean Old World\" became a hit, prompting them to re-form, make a new album – \"The Fugitive Dance\" – and embark on a tour before they disbanded in 1993.\n\nAfter Marker saw singer Shirley Manson performing with her band Angelfish on MTV's \"120 Minutes\" in 1994, he persuaded Erikson and Vig that they should audition her for their new band, which became Garbage. Erikson co-wrote the band's six albums, contributing guitar, keyboards, and bass. The albums have sold more than 17 million copies worldwide.\n\nIn a major feature on the band for \"The Sunday Times\" in 1998, the British journalist Tony Barrell described Erikson's persona in Garbage as \"the cool dude with the goatee and the Mr Spockish demeanour\". Though sometimes a taciturn presence in the band, Erikson has been known to contribute an air of dry humour to media interviews. During a discussion in 1996 about the interpersonal chemistry within Garbage, he deadpanned: \"We have a little room where we go and cry.\"\n\nErikson's other projects include the production of other artists. He produced the single \"If You Go\" by the Greenlandic singer Simon Lynge, which received regular airplay in Britain during 2011 after being added to the BBC Radio 2 playlist.\n\nErikson is on the board of directors of the acclaimed UK independent record label Lo-Max Records, which is home to The Wrens, The Go-Betweens, Kevin Ayers, and Simon Lynge. In 2017 he co-produced and worked extensively on sound restoration for the \"American Epic\" series as well as co-producing the music for \"The American Epic Sessions.\"\n\nErikson's daughter, Roxy Erickson, is a photographer based in London, England.\n\n\n\nStudio albums\n\nCompilation albums\n\nIn 2006 Erikson co-founded Lo-Max Films and was the co-creator, producer and co-writer of the Emmy Award nominated \"American Epic\" documentary film series. The films covered the first recordings of roots music in the United States during the 1920s and their cultural, social and technological impact on North America and the world. The series involved ten years of field research and has been sited as one of the best music documentaries ever made.\n\nErikson co-produced and co-wrote \"The American Epic Sessions\", an award-winning musical film, directed by Bernard MacMahon, in which an engineer restores the fabled long-lost first electrical sound recording system from 1925, and twenty contemporary artists pay tribute to the momentous machine by attempting to record songs on it for the first time in 80 years. The film starred Steve Martin, Nas, Elton John, Alabama Shakes, Willie Nelson, Merle Haggard, Jack White, Taj Mahal, Ana Gabriel, Pokey LaFarge, Rhiannon Giddens and Beck.\n\nIn September 2017 the University of Chicago Laboratory Schools announced a nine-month preschool to high school educational program based on Erikson’s \"American Epic\" films beginning on 6 October 2017. The school, founded by American educator John Dewey in 1896, has over 2,015 students enrolled in 15 grades.\n\nErikson is a member of the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences, the Writers Guild of America West. He is the co-founder of Lo-Max Films, along with film director Bernard MacMahon and producer Allison McGourty.\n\nErikson’s \"American Epic\" documentary series and \"The American Epic Sessions\" have received numerous awards, including the Foxtel Audience Award at the Sydney Film Festival, the Audience Award at the Calgary International Film Festival and a nomination for a Primetime Emmy. On April 23, 2018, the Focal International Awards nominated Erikson for Best Use of Footage in a History Feature and Best Use of Footage in a Music Production.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189249", "title": "Entoto Mountains", "text": "Entoto Mountains\n\nThe Entoto Mountains or Entoto Hills lie immediately north of Addis Ababa, in the Ethiopian Highlands and central region of Ethiopia.\n\nA prominent peak at the top of the Entoto Mountains is Mount Entoto. It served as Menelik II's capital before the founding of Addis Ababa.\n\nAccording to the Bible Society in 2011, thousands of women work on the mountains carrying very heavy loads of eucalyptus wood on their backs to the city below, for an income of less than 50 pence a day. \n\n"}
{"id": "2189256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189256", "title": "Historical document", "text": "Historical document\n\nHistorical documents are original documents that contain important historical information about a person, place, or event and can thus serve as primary sources as important ingredients of the historical methodology.\n\nSignificant historical documents can be deeds, laws, accounts of battles (often given by the victors or persons sharing their viewpoint), or the exploits of the powerful. Though these documents are of historical interest, they do not detail the daily lives of ordinary people, or the way society functioned. Anthropologists, historians and archeologists generally are more interested in documents that describe the day-to-day lives of ordinary people, indicating what they ate, their interaction with other members of their households and social groups, and their states of mind. It is this information that allows them to try to understand and describe the way society was functioning at any particular time in history. Greek ostraka provide good examples of historical documents from \"among the common people\".\n\nMany documents that are produced today, such as personal letters, pictures, contracts, newspapers, and medical records, would be considered valuable historical documents in the future. However most of these will be lost in the future since they are either printed on ordinary paper which has a limited lifespan, or even stored in digital formats, then lost track over time.\n\nSome companies and government entities are attempting to increase the number of documents that will survive the passage of time, by taking into account the preservation issues, and either printing documents in a manner that would increase the likelihood of them surviving indefinitely, or placing selected documents in time capsules or other special storage environments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189258", "title": "Bale Mountains National Park", "text": "Bale Mountains National Park\n\nBale Mountains National Park (BMNP) is a national park of Ethiopia. The park encompasses an area of approximately in the Bale Mountains and Sanetti Plateau of the Ethiopian Highlands.\n\nThe park's Afromontane habitats have one of the highest incidences of animal endemicity of any terrestrial habitat in the world. The park was nominated to the World Heritage Tentative List in 2009.\n\nBale Mountains National Park is located in southeastern Ethiopia, 400 km southeast of Addis Ababa and 150 km east of Shashamene in the Oromia Region National State.\n\nThe boundary of the BMNP lies within five woredas (districts): Adaba (west), Dinsho (north), Goba (northeast), Delo-Mena-Angetu and Harena-Buluk (southeast). The park area is encompassed within geographical coordinates of 6º29' – 7º10'N and 39º28' – 39º57'E.\n\nThe Bale Mountains are part of the Bale-Arsi massif, which forms the western section of the southeastern Ethiopian Highlands.\n\nThe Bale Mountains were formed prior to the formation of the Great Rift Valley, from lava outpourings which covered all underlying rock formations between 38 and 7 million years ago. The rocks of the volcanic outpourings are predominantly trachytes, but also include rhyolites, basalts, and associated agglomerates and tuffs. The main Bale highlands consist of the vast lava Sanetti Plateau, with at least six volcanic cones, each more than 4,200 meters high and considerably flattened by repeated glaciations.\n\nThere have been at least two glacial periods in the history of the mountains and they were glaciated as little as 2,000 years ago. During the Last ice age, the Bale Mountains were one of the most extensively glaciated areas in present-day Ethiopia, with a total area of ice in Bale of approximately 180 km. There was a 30 km ice cap around the peak of Tulu Dimtu (the second highest mountain in Ethiopia) on the Sanetti Plateau and individual glaciers of considerable thickness reached down to 3,200 meters. As a consequence, the landscape as we see it today is the lava outpourings much modified by over 20 million years of erosion by water, wind and ice.\n\nThere are certain geological features that remain an enigma to geologists and glaciologists such as the striations that appear on shallow hillsides on the Sanetti Plateau. Boulder grooves (large stone sorted stripes two to four meters wide and eighty meters long), till ridges and numerous glacial valleys, such as the Togona Valley on the northeast facing slopes of the Sanetti Plateau, provide evidence of the ice-age effects on the landscape of BMNP. Until the beginning of deglaciation (13,000 to 14,000 years ago) the snowline was at 3,700 meters and the upper tree limit in the Bale Mountains was well below 3,000 meters. Fluctuations in climate over the last historical period, including the last 3,000 years, have dramatically affected the vegetation and other biodiversity in the highlands.\n\nThe Bale Mountains play a vital role in climate control of the region by attracting large amounts of orographic rainfall, which has obvious implications for livestock and agricultural production. Some 600 - 1,000 mm fall annually in the lower altitude areas, while 1,000 - 1,400 mm fall in areas of higher altitude, and over 12 million people from Kenya, Somalia and Ethiopia are dependent on water from the Bale massif.\n\nA total of 40 rivers rise in the BMNP area, contributing to five major rivers: the Web, Wabe Shebele, Welmel, Dumal and Ganale. Additionally, the Bale massif is the source for many springs in the lowlands, which are of paramount importance as they are the only source of water year-round. People living south of the national park are completely dependent on good management of the water resources from the highland areas. If the flow of these rivers is altered in any way – through deforestation, overgrazing of pastures and/or over abstraction for irrigation (all of which are occurring at present) – a highland/lowland imbalance results with loss of perennial water in the lowlands. If such a situation arises, the dry season range of the people and their livestock reduces dramatically and they concentrate about whatever water source remains. It is widely recognized that such uneven distribution of people and livestock leads to rapid and lasting degradation. The people are, therefore, likely to become increasingly food-aid dependent if the water catchment areas of the Bale Mountains are insufficiently protected. There is already evidence that over abstraction of water in the Bale Mountains is occurring.\n\nFurthermore, two rivers emanating from Bale, the Wabe Shebele and Yadot, (tributary of the Ganale) have hydroelectric schemes. The dam on the Yadot River supplies electricity to Delo-Mena, while the dam on the Wabe Shebele provides electricity to the Bale area.\n\nLastly, there are numerous natural mineral water springs, locally called horas, which provide an essential source of minerals for livestock. The mineral springs within the park are valued for their high mineral content (sodium, potassium, magnesium, zinc and calcium), and local pastoralists believe that in order to maintain good health and milk production their livestock must be given hora water. They will drive their livestock for up to two days to reach the hora springs. It is increasingly apparent, however, that the hora springs have become an excuse for local people to enter the park to gain access to better grazing areas.\n\nTemperatures vary widely throughout BMNP: on the plateau, daytime temperatures are usually around 10 °C (50 °F) with strong winds; in the Gaysay Valley average daytime temperatures are around 20 °C (68 °F), and the Harenna Forest is around 25 °C (77 °F). However, weather changes frequently and sometimes drastically. In elevations over 3,000 meters, night frosts are common. The rainy season is from May until November.\n\nThe park is divided into five distinct and unique habitats: the Northern Grasslands (Gaysay Valley), Northern Woodlands (Park Headquarters), Afro-alpine Meadows (Sanetti Pleateau), Erica Moorlands, and the Harenna Forest.\n\nHabitats of the Bale Mountains National Park range from grassland areas around in elevation, to Mount Tullu Demtu, the second highest point in Ethiopia at above sea level.\n\nSurrounded by East African pencil juniper (\"Juniperus procera\") trees and St. John’s wort, waist-high wildflowers and grasses grow in the Northern Grasslands and Woodlands. Tree heath (\"Erica arborea\") is native to the Ethiopian montane moorlands ecoregion in the park.\n\nThe Afro-alpine moorlands of the Sanetti Plateau is the largest continuous area of its altitude on the entire continent of Africa. Carpeted in lichen covered rocks, and punctuated by Giant lobelia (\"Lobelia rynchopatelum\") that grow to heights of up to 12 meters. The Plateau is also dotted with alpine lakes and streams, providing important resident wildlife resources, as well as wintering and passage stations for rare and regionally endemic birds.\n\nThe Harenna Forest plant community makes up about half of the park, a woodland of trees draped in moss and lichens that seem to drip off the branches. The area is frequently cloaked in fog, and wildlife is elusive.\n\nThe Bale Mountains National Park is an important area for several threatened Ethiopian endemic species. Additionally, the park holds 26% of Ethiopia’s endemic species including one primate, one bovid, one hare, eight rodent species, and the entire global population of the big-headed African mole-rat. There are also several rare and endemic amphibians.\n\nMammal species in the Bale Mountains National Park include Ethiopian wolf (\"Canis simensis\"), Mountain nyala (\"Tragelaphus buxtoni\"), big-headed African mole-rat, bushbuck, common duiker, klipspringer, Bohor reedbuck, warthog, spotted hyaena, serval. and the Bale Mountains vervet (\"Chlorocebus djamdjamensis\").\n\nOther mammals of Bale Mountains National Park include the Cape bushbuck, African golden wolf, spotted hyena, colobus monkey, lion, African leopard, and African wild dog. Almost one third of the 47 mammals that live in BMNP are rodents. The rodent community, particularly of the Afro-alpine plateau are keystone species in the Bale Mountains National Park. They are the main prey for Ethiopian wolf, and natural grazers of the Afro-alpine areas where important cryoturbation processes happen.\n\nThe Afro-alpine area is home to over half of the global population of the Ethiopian wolf, the rarest canid in the world with only 400 animals surviving. The northern juniper-hagenia woodlands harbor the largest population of the endemic and similarly endangered Mountain nyala, estimated to be approximately two-thirds of the global population. The Ethiopian wolf is restricted to just six isolated mountainous areas of the Ethiopian Highlands and is protected in the country from any activities that may threaten its survival. Habitat loss, caused by unsustainable and rapidly expanding cattle and crop farming is the most severe threat, but diseases like rabies and canine distemper transmitted from domestic dogs are a serious immediate threat and have recently caused population crashes in the Bale Mountains.\n\nBale Mountains National Park is home to 1,321 species of flowering plants, 163 of which are endemic to Ethiopia (12%), and 23 to Bale alone (14% of Ethiopia’s endemic plants).\n\nThe forests of the Bale Mountains are important for genetic stocks of wild forest coffee (\"Coffea arabica\") and for medicinal plants in Ethiopia. Three medicinal plant hotspots have been identified: two in the Gaysay area and one in the Angesu area, spanning the park boundary. The female flowers of hagenia contain anthelmintic, which is used to treat tapeworms among the local populations. St. John’s wort is used to combat depression. A 2006 study estimated the value of the medicinal plants industry to be approximately two billion Ethiopian birr annually, some 8% of Ethiopia’s Federal budget at the time.\n\nRated by the African Bird Club as the number four birding site in Africa, the Bale Mountains are home to over 282 species of birds, including nine of the 16 species endemic to Ethiopia. Furthermore, over 170 migratory birds have been recorded within the park. Bale Mountains National Park is home to almost every highland Abyssinian and Ethiopian endemic.\n\nWith over 863 species of birds recorded, representing approximately 9.5% of the world’s bird diversity and 39% of the bird species in Africa, Ethiopia is often considered one of the most avifaunal-rich countries in Africa. Sixteen of Bale’s bird species are endemic to Ethiopia.\n\nDue to the diversity and density of rodents, the Bale Mountains are also an extremely important area for resident as well as wintering and passing raptors.\n\nEthiopian endemic birds found in the Bale Mountains include: blue-winged goose (\"Cyanochen cyanoptera\"), spot-breasted lapwing (\"Vanellus melanocephalus\"), yellow-fronted parrot (\"Poicephalus flavifrons\"), Abyssinian longclaw (\"Macronyx flavicollis\"), Abyssinian catbird (\"Parophasma galinieri\"), Bale parisoma (\"Parisoma griseiventris\"), Ethiopian siskin (\"Serinus nigriceps\"), fawn-breasted waxbill (\"Estrilda paludicola\") and the Abyssinian owl (\"Asio abyssinicus\").\n\nThe people of the region are dominantly Oromo-speaking farmers and cattle herders. The population of the entire Bale Zone is approximately 1.5 million. Afan Oromo is the official language of Oromia. It belongs to the Cushitic languages, and serves as a sort of lingua franca for over 25 million Oromos. However, most people in Bale Mountains speak some Amharic.\n\nThe predominant religion in the Bale Mountains is Muslim (77%), followed by Orthodox Christian (20%) and Protestant (1%).\n\nThe Bale Mountains are the true ancestral home of the Oromo, the largest single ethnic group in the Horn of Africa. Living as pastoralists and farmers, the population grew quite quickly and expanded to different corners of the country beginning in the 16th century.\n\nLittle is known about the Oromo people of the area and how they came to be there. They are part of the eastern Cushitic people stemming from a branch of the Caucasoid race (which includes Western Asians, Arabs and Europeans), and are distributed from Wello in Ethiopia’s north, to Mombasa in Kenya to the south. Some 3,000 years ago, they passed on practices such as the initiation ceremony of circumcision and habit of not eating fish to Nilotic peoples in the West. Furthermore, they incorporated the ideas of the Gadaa system and cattle husbandry into their own society. The Gadaa system is based on the principles of classifying a society into 11 functional grades, each of which has its special roles and statuses.\n\nCurrently people subsist mainly on agriculture. They follow a traditional transhumance system known as the Godantu system, a key feature of traditional human use of the Bale Mountains. In this system, livestock, particularly cattle, are sent to higher grazing grounds during the months when crops are growing in lower altitudes or into the forest for shade during the dry season. However this should not be confused with the cattle movements that are a consequence of the loss of grazing land outside of the park, thus forcing cattle into the park to graze.\n\nBale houses are circular in shape and locally referred to as “mana citaa”. Juniper and sometimes eucalyptus are used to make the walls and roof. The roof is covered with thatched grass cut from “citaa” (tussock grass) or stubble, especially barley, and supported by a wooden pillar, which stands in the middle of the floor. The house is divided into portions by walls made of bamboo or mud mixed with stubble of barley or grass.\n\nIn contrast to other parts of Ethiopia, very little was written about the Bale Mountains prior to the 1950s, despite the facts that Goba (a main town within the mountains) was connected to Addis Ababa by a telegraph line in 1931, was served with Ethiopian Airlines DC-3 aircraft prior to the 1950s, and that the brief period of Italian government (1935-1941) reached the region with stations in Goba, Dinsho and Delo-Mena.\n\nAs records begin to appear at the beginning of the 20th century, the Bale Mountains were largely uninhabited. The first recorded visit was by the German naturalist and explorer Carlo Von Erlanger who reached the Bale Mountains between 1899 and 1901. During his time in the region, he documented the existence of the giant molerat. Thereafter, a Frenchman, the Vicomte du Bourg, spent two months in Goba in 1901 hunting elephant to the south and traveling around the mountains. He recorded the existence of elephant and buffalo in the Harenna Forest, and commented on the ivory hunting of the area - primarily by mounted horsemen using guns.\n\nFollowing these early records, there is no information until the late 1950s, when Finnish geographer, Helmer Smels, arrived in Bale. He made three journeys to Bale and crossed the area from Goba, through Rira to Delo-Mena. By the time of his visits, just 50 years after Vicomte du Bourg had noted the presence of elephants, they had disappeared from the Harenna Forest. Smels noted that although the Sanetti Plateau was uninhabited, people drove their cattle to the plateau for grazing during the dry season, sometimes for up to three months. Additionally, the mountains were used for their mineral springs or horas, to which the pastoral people also drove their cattle. People stayed overnight in simple, temporary shelters made of split bamboo. The Harenna Forest was uninhabited but for small groups of temporary huts in some of the clearings where people grazed their cattle for part of the year. Although not dwelling there permanently, honey gatherers have always been active in the Harenna Forest.\n\nDuring the same period, a British botanist, Herbert Mooney, visited the Harenna Forest and Sanetti Plateau. He noted the growing settlement of Rira within the Harenna Forest and other hamlets of honey gatherers and pastoral people. Although the Harenna Forest was probably quite populated towards the end of the 19th century, the area was depopulated again as a result of a rinderpest epidemic that killed most of the cattle in the early 1890s.\n\nThe impetus for the present national park began with two visits to the area in 1963 and 1965 by the British naturalist, Dr. Leslie Brown who was in the area explicitly to assess the status of mountain Nyala. The major recommendation of his visits was that a national park should be established in the Bale Mountains to protect their habitat. John Blower, advisor to the Ethiopian Wildlife Conservation Organization (now Ethiopian Wildlife Conservation Authority (EWCA)) and a Peace Corps volunteer, followed through with Dr. Brown’s recommendation by surveying the area and proposed boundaries of the park. In 1969 the Bale Mountains National Park was established.\n\nBale Mountains National Park is faced with many threats associated with an ever-developing and an increasingly populated Ethiopia. One of the biggest threats to the park is grazing. For example, within the Web Valley, a prime Ethiopian wolf habitat, cattle density is estimated at 250 per square kilometer. Other threats include increasing settlements within the park. Currently over 40,000 people live within the park’s boundaries, increasing pressure on the natural resources of the area and diminishing natural habitats of wild animals. With these settlements come domestic dogs, which pose a great threat to the Ethiopian wolf. Dogs transmit rabies and canine distemper, and in 2010 killed 106 individuals (approximately 40% of the Bale population). Other serious threats include the use of the wolf habitat by livestock for grazing which significantly reduces the availability of rodent prey. Over 12 million people, their livestock and the environment in the south of Ethiopia as well as neighboring Somalia and northern Kenya rely on the water that originates from the Bale massif. Unsustainable use and pollution are major threats. Conservationists suggest that if conservation efforts in the Bale Mountains are not successful and people continue to exploit the resources in an unsustainable way, more species of mammal would go extinct than any other area of equivalent size on the planet.\n\nThe Bale Mountains National Park is open year-round although the most popular time to visit is November through April when the rains have stopped. The park can be reached by private car or public transportation from Addis Ababa. Visitors may choose to trek throughout the park either by horseback or on foot, or alternatively to visit the park entirely by car. Treks range from one to 12 nights and travel through all the different ecosystems of the park.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189260", "title": "Sound of Water", "text": "Sound of Water\n\nSound of Water is an album by Saint Etienne, released in 2000. \"Sound of Water\" was developed as Saint Etienne's ambient and trip hop statement.\n\nThe album's lead single was \"How We Used to Live,\" which was not edited down from its 9-minute running length for single release.\n\nTheir previous US release \"Places to Visit\" was clearly the beginning of this new direction. Many of the artists with whom they collaborated on that EP are present on \"Sound of Water\".\n\nDuring the group's tenure with Sub Pop (1998–2005), Saint Etienne released many albums. \"Places to Visit\" preceded \"Sound of Water\". In turn, the label released \"Interlude\" a year afterwards. \"Interlude\" is an album of mostly b-sides from the \"Sound of Water\" singles, as well as a couple from the \"Good Humor\" era.\n\nThe album is one of the few releases on which the band did not collaborate with Ian Catt in some way. The album was co-produced by Gerard Johnson and had arrangements by To Rococo Rot and Sean O'Hagan. It was recorded at To Rococo Rot's studio, Amber Sound, in Berlin, Germany. The band have described the recording sessions as 'working in an airless, windowless oven'. The album and singles artwork were all designed by Julian Opie an artist famed for his portraits of the band Blur.\n\n\"The Place at Dawn\" contains a sample of Magna Carta's \"Medley\", from the 1970 album Seasons.\n\n\"Sound Of Water\" was remastered and reissued as part of Heavenly Recordings/Universal's deluxe editions of the band's recordings on . The same deluxe edition was released in the United States on 30 June 2017 by PIAS Recordings. The new release features b-sides, unreleased tracks and the entire \"Places to Visit\" EP, which was previously only released in the United States and Germany.\n\n\nDue to a mastering error on the 2009 deluxe edition of the album, the song \"Blofeld Buildings\" is longer than the original version featured on the fan-club compilation \"Built On Sand\". The same song starts playing again at the 1:32 mark, which makes the whole track end at 6:11. The 2017 reissue of the release corrected this flaw.\n\nSaint Etienne is:\n\nAugmented by:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189270", "title": "Compassion &amp; Choices", "text": "Compassion &amp; Choices\n\nCompassion & Choices is a nonprofit organization in the United States working to improve patient rights and individual choice at the end of life, including access to medical aid in dying. Its primary function is advocating for and ensuring access to end-of-life options.\nWith over 65,000 supporters and campaigns in nine states, it is the largest organization of its kind in the United States.\n\nCompassion & Choices is the successor to the Hemlock Society, and Compassion In Dying Federation; the organizations merged in 2007. The organization maintains staff in New York, the District of Columbia, California, Washington State (they dismissed WA state staff in 2016; the local org is independent and unaffiliated) Oregon, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Montana, New Mexico, Colorado, Vermont and New Jersey.\n\nCompassion & Choices provides end-of-life consultation for dying patients and their families at no cost. Professional consultants and trained volunteers work by phone or in person to offer assistance in completing advance directives, make referrals to local services including hospice and illness-specific support groups, advice on adequate pain and symptom management, and information on safe, effective and legal methods for aid in dying.\n\nThe organization's work is highlighted in the documentary film \"How to Die in Oregon\" which won the 2011 Grand Jury Prize at the Sundance Film Festival.\n\nCompassion & Choices integrates medical aid in dying into healthcare by implementing and normalizing them into the standard of care after laws are passed in individual states.\n\nCompassion & Choices litigates patient cases related to ensuring adequate end-of-life care and choice. Through litigation, Compassion & Choices protects terminally ill patients' rights to receive pain and symptom management, to voluntarily stop life-sustaining treatments, to request and receive palliative sedation, and to choose aid in dying under state and federal constitutional protections.\n\nIn 1997, Vacco v. Quill legitimized palliative sedation as a recognized medical practice.\n\nIn 1997, Washington v. Glucksberg emphasized that it was up to states to legalize aid in dying.\n\nC&C represented 16 terminally ill patient-plaintiffs at the U.S. Supreme Court in \"Gonzales v. Oregon\", defeating the Bush administration's challenge to Oregon's Death with Dignity Act in January 2006.\n\nBaxter v. Montana authorized medical aid in dying in Montana.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189277", "title": "Taenia crassiceps", "text": "Taenia crassiceps\n\nTaenia crassiceps is a tapeworm in the family Taeniidae. It is a parasitic organism whose adult form infects the intestine of carnivores, like canids. It is related to \"Taenia solium\", the pork tapeworm, and to \"Taenia saginata\", the beef tapeworm. It is commonly found in the Northern Hemisphere, especially throughout Canada and the northern United States.\n\nNatural intermediate hosts of this organism are usually small rodents and moles. The larval stages of \"T. crassiceps\" develop subcutaneously or in their body cavities as cysticerci which are cyst-like structures.\n\n\"T. crassiceps\" begins its life in the intestines of wild canines, like a wolf. Inside the wolf, the tapeworm reproduces. Its eggs are passed in the wolf feces, and are eaten by a rat. When the rat is eaten by another wolf, the parasite's life cycle repeats. Taenia crassiceps rarely infect humans; however if they do, they often cause ocular larva migrans that can progress to blindness. An adult human's immune system typically removes the parasite before permanent damage is done. However juveniles are typically less defended.\n\nTaenia crassiceps is described as an opportunistic infection in severe immunodeficiency, as in AIDS. But human infection are rare, with only eight cases reported and individuals who were infected tended to be immunosuppressed patients where parasites accumulated on skeletal muscles and subcutaneous tissue, and some with intraocular infections. \nRodents are natural intermediate hosts, and they harbor the cyst-like larvae (metacestodes, cysticerci) in the peritoneal cavity, where they multiply by asexual budding. Humans serve as intermediate hosts when food or water contaminated with feces from infected canids or felids is consumed. \n\nA case of intracranial \"T. crassiceps\" tapeworm cysticercosis with severe involvement of the cerebellum is described. A 51-year-old German woman was hospitalized because of progressive headache, nausea, and vomiting. The signs and symptoms had started 2 weeks before, and intensity had been increasing ever since. At the time of admission, the patient showed cerebellar ataxia but no further neurologic deficits. She did not have fever or other symptoms. She had no known chronic preconditions or recent hospital stays and had never taken immunosuppressant drugs. She had no family history of neurologic symptoms or malignant diseases. Combined surgical removal of the larvae and treatment with albendazole and praziquantel led to a complete cure in this nonimmunocompromised patient. The organism was unequivocally identified by molecular methods, thus avoiding a misdiagnosis of Taenia solium tapeworm cysticercosis.\n\nThere may be no symptoms. Symptoms may include: Headaches, Nausea, and Vomiting\n\nPositive test results from a serum enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ELISA for anticysticercal antibodies help confirm the diagnosis; however, negative test results do not exclude cysticercosis. A CBC count may reveal eosinophilia.\n\nSurgical removal is mandatory for individuals with intraoscular cysts. Oscular cysticercosis can be effectively treated with Anthelminthics such as Albendazole or Praziquantel, oral corticosteroids.\n\nThe immune response elicited by T. crassiceps and its antigens in human and mice cells were studied, suggesting that it had a strong capacity to induce chronic Th2-type responses that are primarily characterized by high levels of Th2 cytokines, low proliferative response in lymphocytic cells, immature and LPS-tolerogenic profile in dendritic cells, the recruitment of myeloid-derived suppressor cells, and activated macrophages.\n\n\"Includes public domain text from the CDC as cited\"\n"}
{"id": "2189279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189279", "title": "Carl Friedrich Wilhelm Alfred Fleckeisen", "text": "Carl Friedrich Wilhelm Alfred Fleckeisen\n\nCarl Friedrich Wilhelm Alfred Fleckeisen (September 23, 1820 in Wolfenbüttel – August 7, 1899 in Dresden) was a German philologist and critic. He is best known for his work on Plautus and Terence.\n\nHe was educated at the Helmstedt gymnasium and the University of Göttingen. After holding several educational posts at Frankfurt am Main and Dresden, in 1861 he was appointed in the vice-principalship of the Vitzthum-Gymnasium at Dresden, which he held until his retirement in 1889. Fleckeisen is chiefly known for his labors on Plautus and Terence; in the knowledge of these authors he was unrivalled, except perhaps by Ritschl, his lifelong friend and a worker in the same field. \n\nHis chief works are: \"Exercitationes Plautinae\" (1842), one of the most masterly productions on the language of Plautus; \"Analecta Plautina\", printed in \"Philologus\" (1847); \"Plauti Comoediae\" (Vols. I and II, 1850-1851, unfinished), introduced by an “Epistula critica ad F. Ritschelium”; \"P. Terenti Afri Comoediae\" (new ed., 1898). In his editions he endeavoured to restore the text in accordance with the results of his researches on the usages of the Latin language and meter. He attached great importance to the question of orthography, and his short treatise \"Fünfzig Artikel \"(1861) is considered most valuable. Fleckeisen also contributed largely to the \"Jahrbücher für Philologie und Pädagogik\", the philology department of which he was for many years editor of.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189287", "title": "National Thoroughbred Racing Association", "text": "National Thoroughbred Racing Association\n\nThe National Thoroughbred Racing Association (NTRA) is a broad-based coalition of American horse racing interests consisting of leading thoroughbred racetracks, owners, breeders, trainers and affiliated horse racing associations, charged with increasing the popularity of horse racing and improving economic conditions for industry participants. The NTRA has offices in Lexington, Kentucky, and Rye Brook, New York.\n\nHistorically, it is the marketing departments of the individual tracks, not the national marketing campaigns, which have attracted a fan base. In 2012, the radio campaign by advertising agency, DeVito/Verdi, led to an increase in a younger, more affluent fan base, and won the Mercury awards for the best radio campaign.\n\nThe NTRA was formed in 1998 with startup funding provided by Breeders' Cup Limited, Thoroughbred Owners and Breeders Association, The Jockey Club, Keeneland Association, Oak Tree Racing Association and the National Thoroughbred Association. It replaced the Thoroughbred Racing Associations of North America as the sponsor of the American Horse of the Year awards in 1998.\n\nBeginning in the late 1990s, the NTRA operated a number of lobbying campaigns in Washington, D.C. They NTRA registered a \"hard money\" political action committee with the Federal Election Commission on July 14, 2000, with the organization quoting that \"a $1-million PAC is a necessary complement to the NTRA's federal lobbying efforts.\"\n\nOn December 15, 2000, the United States Congress passed a package of appropriations bills which included an amendment to the Interstate Horseracing Act (IHA), a bill first enacted in 1978. The NTRA had been a key lobbying team behind the new legislation, and the IHA Amendment was signed by President Bill Clinton on December 22 and clarified that the US horse racing industry could conduct interstate simulcasting and \"commingling of pools and account wagering,\" so long as the states where the activity occurred permitted such activity. This legislation confirmed that Internet-based wagering related to horse racing was legal, so long as the wagering business could confirm the identity and age via closed-loop authentication. Separate gambling legislation known as the Federal Wire Act that historically prohibited any betting over state lines via technology stayed intact, with horse racing becoming the sole exemption for federally recognized online gambling in states that authorized the activity.\n\nBeginning in 2002 the NTRA lobbying team advocated for H.R. 4474, which gained bipartisan support for its proposal to eliminate the 30% tax that the U.S. government then placed on all international bets. This legislation was signed into law in by President George W. Bush October 22, 2004.\n\nIn 2006 the NTRA lobbying team secured an additional exemption for horse racing in the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act of 2006, signed by President Bush on October 13, 2006.\nHistorically, it is the marketing departments of the individual tracks, not the national marketing campaigns, which have attracted a fan base. In 2012, the radio campaign by advertising agency, DeVito/Verdi, led to an increase in a younger, more affluent fan base, and won the Mercury award for the best radio campaign.\n\nIn September 2017, two of the National Thoroughbred Racing Association's radio ads, created by DeVito/Verdi, won \"Hall of Fame\" awards at the 2017 Clio Awards show. The Hall of Fame selections are for \"outstanding work from the past that has stood the test of time and cemented a place of honor and respect in the hearts and memories of consumers and advertising professionals alike\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189297", "title": "Navy Electronics Laboratory", "text": "Navy Electronics Laboratory\n\nThe U.S. Navy Electronics Laboratory (NEL) was created in 1945, with consolidation of the naval radio station, radar operators training school, and radio security activity of the Navy Radio and Sound Lab (NRSL) and its wartime partner, the University of California Division of War Research. NEL’s charter was “\"to effectuate the solution of any problem in the field of electronics, in connection with the design, procurement, testing, installation and maintenance of electronic equipment for the U.S. Navy.\"” Its radio communications and sonar work was augmented with basic research in the propagation of electromagnetic energy in the atmosphere and of sound in the ocean.\n\nIn November 1945, the Navy Radio and Sound Lab was renamed as Navy Electronics Laboratory. 80% of the Point Loma Military Reservation evolved into the Naval Electronics Laboratory Center (NELC) at the end of World War II. In turn NELC was merged into the Naval Ocean Systems Center (NOSC) in 1977. This eventually was merged into the Space and Naval Warfare Systems Command (SPAWAR) in 1997.\n\nIn the 1960s, NELC was tasked with 4C: Command, Control, Communications and Computers.\n\nAs one of its first projects, NEL began building its \"Shipboard Antenna Model Range\". The non-metallic arch of this structure supports a transmitting antenna which is positioned toward a brass model ship on a turntable. The ground plane under the arch simulates the electrical characteristics of the ocean, allowing research on the properties of shipboard antennas to be carried out.\n\nIt also began conversion of a World War II mortar emplacement, \"Battery Whistler\", into an Arctic Submarine Laboratory. Scientific exploration of the Arctic Basin, and particularly providing the capability to operate attack submarines in the Arctic under the ice canopy, would become a key NEL mission.\nWorld headlines came early in this program from several events—the submerged voyage of USS \"Nautilus\" from the Pacific to the Atlantic, via the North Pole, in 1958, with NEL’s Dr. Waldo Lyon aboard as chief scientist and ice pilot. That same summer, the USS \"Skate\" cruised from the Atlantic to the North Pole and the central Arctic Ocean, surfacing 9 times through small holes in the ice cap. Dr. Eugene C. La Fond, head of NEL's Oceanography Branch, was chief scientist\nIn March 1959, the \"Skate\" returned to the Arctic, under winter conditions, with Dr. Waldo Lyon as chief scientist, and for the first time, the nuclear submarine was able to surface exactly at the North Pole.\n\nNEL also plunged into the undersea environment, acquiring the \"Bathyscaphe Trieste\" and directing its 1960 dive over 35,000 feet (10.7 km) down into the Challenger Deep of the Mariana Trench near Guam.\n\nInterested in radio physics in general, the lab built a -diameter radio telescope on Point Loma, and in 1964, NEL began construction of the La Posta Astro-Geophysical Observatory on a site in the Laguna Mountains, east of San Diego. The observatory played a major role in solar radio mapping, studies of environmental disturbances, and development of a solar optical videometer for microwave research. Its dish, which could both transmit and receive, was used for important Center research programs in propagation and ionospheric forecasting which was used during a number of Apollo space launches to predict solar activity that might hamper communications from the ground to the space capsules.\n\nIn the area of communications, NEL developed Verdin, a low-frequency/very-low-frequency (LF/VLF) system to provide information to deeply submerged Polaris missile submarines, and began development of satellite communication capabilities.\n\nRequirements for handling the vast amount of shipboard communications during the intensifying Vietnam War led to tasking for an internal message handling system. In response, the lab developed the Message Processing and Distribution System (MPDS), installing it aboard the Seventh Fleet flagship USS \"Oklahoma City\" a month ahead of schedule. The lab improved substantially on that system later and installed it aboard \"Nimitz\"-class aircraft carriers.\n\nThe programming language dialect NELIAC was developed by and named after the lab.\n\nNELIAC was the brainchild of Harry Huskey, at the time Chairman of the Association for Computing Machinery, who had suggested porting applications in a machine-independent form. ALGOL 58 gave NEL the framework for an implementation, and work commenced in 1958, but was not fully developed until 1961.\n\nNELIAC was used at NEL to support experimental anti-submarine systems and Command and Control Systems development, and later, at the Navy Command Systems and Support Activity (NAVCOSSACT) in Washington DC in support of the National Emergency Command Post Afloat (NECPA) project which was installed on many large ships starting in 1966.\n\nThis was the world's first self-compiling compiler and was ported to many other computers in the Department of Defense, it also included the NELOS operating system development used for large scale applications (unique to the AN/USQ-20 Navy shipboard computer and its commercial version, the UNIVAC 490).\n\nMany other versions existed for a variety of computers because the ease of portability and the rapid one-pass compile times.\n\nIn 1967, as part of the general Navy laboratory re-organization, NEL became the Naval Command, Control and Communications Laboratory Center. The name was never fully accepted, and in about six months it was changed to Naval Electronics Laboratory Center (NELC).\n\nIn 1971, the Antisubmarine Forces Command and Control System (AFCCS) and Naval Ocean Surveillance System (NOSS) were software projects under development at NELC using an IBM 360/65 computer. AFCCS (later ASWCCCS) was re-written in 1972 for the Honeywell 6050 computer after DoD contracted with Honeywell to supply computers for the Worldwide Military Command and Control System (WWMCCS). On March 1, 1977, NELC and NUC were consolidated to form the Naval Ocean Systems Center (NOSC) (today the Space and Naval Warfare Systems Center Pacific).\n\n"}
{"id": "2189301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189301", "title": "William C. Leggett", "text": "William C. Leggett\n\nWilliam C. Leggett (born 1939) is a Canadian biologist who served as the 17th Principal of Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario from 1994 to 2004. He was only the second scientist to hold the Principalship. Leggett's term as Principal was notable for his strong leadership and his insistence on measuring Queen's against the highest national and international standards. Dr. Leggett is currently Principal Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Biology at Queen's. He is the author/co-author of over 170 peer reviewed scientific publications in the fields of Fish Ecology and Fisheries Oceanography.\n\nLeggett was born in 1939 in Orangeville, Ontario, He received his high school education at Orangeville District High School and a B.A. from Waterloo University College (now Wilfrid Laurier University) in 1962. He then studied Zoology at the University of Waterloo, from which he obtained his M.Sc. in 1965, and McGill University, where he received his Ph.D. in 1969. Following several years as a research scientist at the Essex Marine Laboratory in Essex, Connecticut Leggett had a long and successful career at McGill: he was appointed an Assistant Professor in 1970, Associate Professor in 1974, full Professor in 1979, Chair of Biology in 1981, Dean of Science in 1986 and Vice-Principal Academic in 1991. He left McGill to become Principal of Queen's University in 1994. \n\nLeggett's tenure at Queen's saw the largest capital renewal program in the University's 160-year history, including the construction of Chernoff Hall, Goodes Hall, Beamish-Munro Hall, Leggett Hall and Watts Hall, the expansion of the Agnes Etherington Art Centre and the renovation/restoration of Gordon Hall. During his tenure Queen's moved to a clear leadership position in Canada in the participation of students in international study programs, completed the largest fund-raising campaign in its history, more than doubled its research funding, and strengthened its leadership position in Canadian post-secondary education.\n\nLeggett's work, both in biological science and as a leader in Canadian education, has resulted in numerous national and international awards, including membership in the Order of Canada, Fellowship in the Royal Society of Canada, Paul Harris Fellow of Rotary International, honorary degrees from McGill, Queen's, McMaster, Laval, Wilfrid Laurier and Waterloo Universities, the Fry Medal of the Canadian Society of Zoologists and, from the American Fisheries Society, the Award of Excellence in Fisheries Education for his exceptional contributions to undergraduate and graduate level education in his discipline, and the Oscar E. Sette Award and the Award of Excellence for outstanding research contributions to fisheries and marine ecology. His research publications have been identified by the Institute of Scientific Information (ISI) as being among the most highly cited in his field worldwide.\n"}
{"id": "2189305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189305", "title": "Semien Mountains", "text": "Semien Mountains\n\nThe Semien Mountains (Amharic: ስሜን ተራሮች) (or Səmen; also spelled Simien and Simen), in northern Ethiopia, north east of Gondar in Amhara region, are part of the Ethiopian Highlands. They are a World Heritage Site and include the Simien Mountains National Park. The mountains consist of plateaus separated by valleys and rising to pinnacles. The tallest peak is Ras Dejen (4,550 m); other notable heights include Mounts Biuat (4,437 m) and Kidis Yared (4,453 m). \n\nBecause of their geological origins, the mountains are almost unique, with only South Africa's Drakensberg having been formed in the same manner and thus appearing similar. Notable animals in the mountains include the walia ibex, gelada, and caracal. There are a few Ethiopian wolves.\n\nThe Semien Mountains were formed prior to the creation of the Rift Valley, from lava outpourings between 40 and 25 million years ago during the Oligocene period. The volcano is believed to have spread over more than 5000 m and resulted in a thick sequence of basaltic lava some 3,000-3,500 m thick that was deposited on Precambrian crystalline basement. The major part of the Semien Mountains consists of remnants of a Hawaiian-type shield volcano. The Kidus Yared peak is situated near the center of the shield volcano. Ras Dejen (4,533 m), Bwahit (4,430 m) and Silki (4,420 m) were formed from the outer core of this ancient volcano.\n\nThe extreme escarpment in Semien appears to be a precondition for the formation of the extended uplift of the whole mountain massif 75 million years ago. The dramatic views are due to this volcanic activity. Especially of note is the 2,000 m high escarpment extending in a southwest-northeast direction. \n\nThere are different types of soils as a result of the difference in geological formation, glaciations, topography, and climate. The Humic Andosol is the dominant soil type which is mainly found at an altitude of 3,000 m. The other types of soil are shallow Andosols, Lithosols, and Haplic Phaeozems that are mainly common in the area between 2,500 and 3,500 m. The Semien Mountains are highly eroded as a result of human land use practices and as a result of the topography of the area.\n\nAlthough the word \"Semien\" means \"north\" in Amharic, according to Richard Pankhurst the ancestral form of the word actually meant \"south\" in Ge'ez, because the mountains lay to the south of Aksum, which was at the time the center of Ethiopian civilization. But as over the following centuries the center of Ethiopian civilization itself moved to the south, these mountains came to be thought of as lying to the north, and the meaning of the word likewise changed.\n\nThe Semiens are remarkable as being one of the few spots in Africa where snow regularly falls. First mentioned in the \"Monumentum Adulitanum\" of the 4th century AD (which described them as \"inaccessible mountains covered with snow\" and where soldiers walked up to their knees in snow), the presence of snow was undeniably witnessed by the 17th century Jesuit priest Jerónimo Lobo. Although the later traveler James Bruce claims that he had never witnessed snow in the Semien Mountains, the 19th century explorer Henry Salt not only recorded that he saw snow there (on 9 April 1814), but explained the reason for Bruce's failure to see snow in these mountains – Bruce had ventured no further than the foothills into the Semiens.\n\nDespite their ruggedness and altitude, the mountains are dotted with villages linked by tracks. Historically they were inhabited by Ethiopian Jews (the Beta Israel), who after repeated attacks by the zealous Christian Emperors in the 15th century withdrew from the province of Dembiya into the more defensible Semien mountains.\n\nTowards the end of the Zemene Mesafint, \"Dejazmach\" Wube Haile Mariam maintained his arsenal and treasury on Mount Hai.\n\nSimien Mountains National Park"}
{"id": "2189313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189313", "title": "List of women photographers", "text": "List of women photographers\n\nWomen have made significant contributions to photography since its inception. Notable participants include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189315", "title": "Unmasked (Kiss album)", "text": "Unmasked (Kiss album)\n\nUnmasked is the eighth studio album by American hard rock band Kiss, released on May 20, 1980. Despite being credited, Peter Criss had no involvement with the recording of the album; Anton Fig played all the drums uncredited.\n\nThe album features substantial songwriting contributions from Vini Poncia, who had previously been Ringo Starr's post-Beatles songwriting partner. The album marked the first time Kiss had used the contributions of outside songwriters to such a large extent, as all tracks except two of the Frehley contributions, \"Talk to Me\" and \"Two Sides of the Coin\", were written or co-written by someone outside the band.\n\nThe band filmed a promotional video for \"Shandi\" with Criss. It was the last time he appeared with Kiss until he performed with them at a Kiss Convention on June 17, 1995. In the band's authorized biography, the drummer revealed that he was the last one left in the band's dressing room after filming and broke down crying. The album cover and poster insert, designed by artist Victor Stabin, featured a winking Criss. \"\"Unmasked\" was like the tail end of a comet,\" reflected Stanley, \"and I don't mean Frehley's.\"\n\nA lip-synched German television performance of \"Talk to Me\" and \"She's So European\" featured the debut of Eric Carr, who became the band's permanent drummer until his death in 1991. The band would play a concert at the Palladium Theatre in New York City to officially introduce Carr as Criss' permanent replacement in the band. Kiss then toured Europe and Australia (where their popularity was at an all-time high) and played \"Is That You?\", \"Talk to Me\", \"Shandi\" and for a short time, \"You're All That I Want\". Otherwise, the album's songs have been largely ignored in live performances, with the exception of \"Shandi\", which is sometimes played in the band's shows, particularly in Australia (where the song became a top ten hit in 1980). \"Talk to Me\" was also played in 2001 during the Australian and Japanese concerts of the Farewell Tour, but has not been performed again since the departure of Frehley.\n\nHeavy metal singer Jørn Lande covered \"Naked City\" on the album \"Unlocking the Past\" (2007). In 1999, German label Aor Heaven released a compilation with various artists covering the entire album, it was named \"Undressed An Unmasked Tribute To Kiss\".\n\n\"Unmasked\" went on sale on May 20, 1980 through Casablanca Records and reached number 35 on the Billboard 200, the worst position for the group since \"Hotter Than Hell\" (1974). The album got a gold certification from the RIAA two months after its launch. Meanwhile, in Europe and Oceania, Kiss maintained its popularity; \"Unmasked\" topped the charts in Norway and New Zealand, and reached the top 5 in Australia, Austria, Germany and the Netherlands.\n\n\"Shandi\", published on June 1, 1980, was the first single from the album. Although in the United States it only reached No. 47, in Argentina it reached number one, while in Australia, New Zealand and Norway it reached the top 10. \"Talk to Me\" was the next single outside the United States. It went on sale on August 24 and its highest position was the tenth, reached on the Swiss charts. \"Tomorrow\" was the third and last single by \"Unmasked\" – the second in the United States – and reached No. 70 in Germany.\n\nAfter its release, \"Unmasked\" divided the critics and received both positive and negative reviews. According to David Fricke of \"Rolling Stone\", the album \"lacks the madness and amplified delusions of Love Gun and Alive!\" And \"Shandi\" suggests The Doobie Brothers with kabuki makeup\". Fricke also noted that rock songs such as \"She's So European\", \"Easy As It Seems\" and \"You're All That I Want\" are \"disappointingly boring\" and that \"the sterile production\" of Vini Poncia left \"in the background the guitars and the harrowing voices of yesteryear.\" Jason Josephes of Pitchfork Media wrote that until he did not hear it he could not discern \"how bad he was\" and that he preferred to remain in that ignorance for the rest of his life. Examiner Rustyn Rose concluded that \"Unmasked\", \"Is Kiss's adaptation to the new wave movement \"and despite being\" full of catchy pop-oriented melodies, they are far from the classic Kiss sound.\" Stepehen Thomas Erlewine of AllMusic commented that none of the songs are memorable and that the group sounds uninspired throughout the album. Erlewine also added that \"the music made it clear that it was time for Kiss to make a change.\"\n\nFor his part, Matthew Wilkening of \"Ultimate Classic Rock\" had positive comments on the album, according to him \"Unmasked is an underrated gem of power pop in the middle of a race in free fall.\" Wilkening remarked that \"Frehley manages to eclipse everyone by adding enough distorted guitars to bring together a sound comparable to the Rolling Stones in such outstanding subjects as 'Two Sides of the Coin,' 'Talk to Me,' and the wonderfully insane 'Torpedo Girl.'\"\n\nAlthough \"Unmasked\" marked a major musical departure for the band, it still reached #35 on the US \"Billboard\" chart and was certified gold by the RIAA on July 30, 1980.\n\nOne year after their last tour, which was somewhat a disaster, Criss was fired from the band due to his erratic behavior. Kiss played only one show in the US, at the Palladium with Carr. The band decided to take a break from the U.S. because the album was more successful in other countries, and Kiss played in Australia, England, New Zealand, Sweden, Netherlands, Norway, Denmark, Germany, France, and Italy.\n\nKiss\nAdditional musicians\n\nSingles\n"}
{"id": "2189319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189319", "title": "Juggling convention", "text": "Juggling convention\n\nMany countries, cities or juggling clubs hold their own annual juggling convention or juggling festival. These are the backbone of the juggling scene, the events that regularly bring jugglers from a wide area together to socialize. The attendance of a convention can be anything from a few dozen to a few thousand people.\n\nThe principal focus of most juggling conventions is the main hall - where any participant can juggle freely, share and learn tricks, and try out multi-person passing patterns. Additionally, more formal \"workshops\" are often organized, in which expert jugglers work with small groups on specific skills and techniques. Most Juggling Conventions will also include a big show (open to the general public), competitions and juggling games. Many juggling conventions host some kind of Renegade Show, an open stage where anyone can, at short notice, get up and perform just about anything.\n\nThe Juggling Edge maintains a searchable database of past and upcoming juggling festivals and events.\n\nConventions can be split into three distinct types, though all call themselves \"Juggling Conventions\":\n\nThese last three to ten days and can attract between 150 and 5,500 people. Most attendees camp, pitching tents within the convention site, and this is covered by the cost of attendance. Onsite there are usually food tents, bar tents, various sports halls or large bigtops for juggling space. During the day there can be shows, workshops, games, parades and exhibitions. Every night there is entertainment provided in the forms of professional shows, open stages, late night stages, live music, parties and more. The largest festival style conventions are held in Europe.\n\nSome notable festival style conventions are:\n\nThese are held in city center hotels or conference centers. They are invariably in North America and slightly more expensive than the European Juggling Convention. Camping is only rarely an option, as most are held in hotel convention centers. Notable conference-style conventions are :\n\n\nSmall, regional conventions that can actually last up to two or three days. These usually attract between 25 and 250 people, have workshops throughout the day and a show in the evening of the main day. At these conventions accommodation and food is not normally provided. They are usually held in sports centres, schools or universities. Some notable one day conventions are:\n\nThe most well attended convention is the European Juggling Convention (EJC), along with the British Juggling Convention (BJC), the Israeli Juggling Convention (IJC), and the IJA Festival (IJA). They all take place annually.\n\nThe BJC occurs every spring, the IJC is staged over Passover, and the EJC and IJA are summer festivals. The BJC takes place in Britain, the IJC in Israel, and the EJC in Europe, as one might expect, but the IJA Festival has so far proven to be an exclusively North American event, despite it being the principal date in the calendar of the International Jugglers' Association.\n\nThis list was compiled from data provided by Mike Armstrong at UK_Jugglers, a Yahoo! group. A Yahoo! login will be required to view the source material.\n"}
{"id": "2189320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189320", "title": "Roman Dzindzichashvili", "text": "Roman Dzindzichashvili\n\nRoman Yakovlevich Dzindzichashvili (; pronounced \"jin-jee-khash-VEE-lee\"; born May 5, 1944) is a Soviet-born American chess player. He was awarded the title Grandmaster by FIDE in 1977.\n\nBorn in Tbilisi, Georgian SSR into a family of Georgian Jews, his older brother is Nodar Djin. Dzindzichashvili won the Junior Championship of the Soviet Union in 1962 and the University Championships in 1966 and 1968. In 1970, he was awarded the title of International Master by FIDE. He left the U.S.S.R. in 1976 for Israel and earned the Grandmaster title in 1977. In 1979, he settled in the United States, and he won the Lone Pine tournament the next year. He led the U.S.team at the Chess Olympiad in 1984. One of his best career performances was first place at the 53rd Hastings Chess Festival in 1977/1978. He scored 10½ out of 14 points, a full point ahead of former World Champion Tigran Petrosian.\nHe won the U.S. Chess Championship twice, in 1983 and again in 1989, sharing the title with two other players each time. He briefly took up residence in Washington Square Park in New York City, and hustled chess during the 1980s, making a living playing blitz for stakes, as is popular there. He had a cameo in the 1993 film \"Searching for Bobby Fischer\". He also had a brief appearance in \"Men Who Would Be Kings\", a documentary about chess in Washington Square Park set in the 1980s.\n\nDzindzichashvili is a well-known theoretician and a chess coach. Among his students are 5-time US Champion Gata Kamsky and Eugene Perelshteyn. He is the author and star of multiple chess instructional DVDs entitled \"Roman's Lab\". He currently produces instructional videos for Chess.com. Topics include openings, middlegames, endgames, famous players, and interesting games.\n\nHe is one of the founders of Chess.net internet chess server project, started in 1993. He played third board for the \"GGGg\" team that won the Amateur Team East tournament in February 2008.\n\nDzindzichashvili played a series of rapid games against the computer program Fritz in 1991 and 1993. In the following game he checkmated the program in only 28 moves.\n\nDzindzichashvili vs. Fritz, 1991 1.d4 e6 2.e4 d5 3.e5 c5 4.Nf3 Nc6 5.Bd3 cxd4 6.0-0 Bc5 7.Re1 Nge7 8.Nbd2 0-0 9.Bxh7+ Kxh7 10.Ng5+ Kg6 11.Qg4 Nxe5 12.Rxe5 f5 13.Qg3 Rf7 14.Ndf3 Qh8 15.Nh4+ Qxh4 16.Qxh4 Rf8 17.Qh7+ Kf6 18.Nf3 Ng6 19.Bg5+ Kf7 20.Qh5 Rh8 21.Rxf5+ Kg8 22.Qxg6 exf5 23.Bf6 Rh7 24.Re1 d3 25.Re8+ Bf8 26.Ng5 Rh6 27.Rxf8+ Kxf8 28.Qf7#\n\nIn a match held on March 3–7, 2008, Dzindzichashvili played a series of eight games against the computer program Rybka, with Rybka giving odds of pawn and move. The series ended in a 4–4 tie. A rubber match, at the same odds, was played on July 28, 2008, at the faster than tournament time control (30'+20\"). Rybka 3, running on eight CPUs, won by the score 2½–1½.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189322", "title": "West Fife (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "West Fife (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nWest Fife was a parliamentary constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom from 1885-1974. Along with East Fife, it was formed by dividing the old Fife constituency. \n\nWillie Gallacher of the Communist Party of Great Britain is notable as the longest-serving Member of Parliament (from 1935 to 1950) and the last MP in Parliament (until 1950) for the party. \n\n1885–1918:\n\n1918–1950:\n\n1950–1974: The Burghs of Culross, Leslie, and Markinch; the Districts of Dunfermline, Kirkcaldy, and Lochgelly; and part of the District of Wemyss.\n\nBruce's resignation caused a by-election.\n\nGeneral Election 1914/15:\n\nAnother General Election was required to take place before the end of 1915. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by the July 1914, the following candidates had been selected; \n\n"}
{"id": "2189324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189324", "title": "Home hemodialysis", "text": "Home hemodialysis\n\nHome hemodialysis (HHD), is the provision of hemodialysis to purify the blood of a person whose kidneys are not working normally, in their own home.\n\nPeople on home hemodialysis are followed by a nephrologist who writes the dialysis prescription and they rely on the support of a dialysis unit for back-up treatments and case management. Studies show that HHD improves patients' sense of well-being; the more they know about and control their own treatment the better they are likely to do on dialysis.\n\nThere are three basic schedules of HHD and these are differentiated by the length and frequency of dialysis and the time of day the dialysis is carried out. They are as follows:\n\nThus an NHHD schedule results in a larger dose of hemodialysis per week, as do some SDHHD. More total time dialyzing, shorter periods between treatments and the fact that fluid removal speeds can be lower (thus reducing the symptoms resulting from rapid ultrafiltration), accounts for the advantages of these schedules over conventional ones.\n\nA frequent NHHD schedule has been shown to have better clinical outcomes than a conventional schedule and evidence is mounting that clinical outcomes are improved with each increase in treatment frequency.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nHome hemodialysis started in the early 1960s. Who started it is in dispute. Groups in Boston, London, Seattle and Hokkaidō all have a claim.\n\nThe Hokkaidō group was slightly ahead of the others, with Nosé's publication of his PhD thesis (in 1962), which described treating patients outside of the hospital for acute kidney injury due to drug overdoses. In 1963, he attempted to publish these cases in the ASAIO Journal but was unsuccessful, which was later described in the ASAIO Journal when people were invited to write about unconventional/crazy rejected papers. That these treatments took place in people's homes is hotly disputed by Shaldon and he has accused Nosé of a faulty memory and not being completely honest, as allegedly revealed by some shared Polish Vodka, many years earlier.\n\nThe Seattle group (originally the Seattle Artificial Kidney Center, later the Northwest Kidney Centers) started their home program in July 1964. It was inspired by the fifteen-year-old daughter of a collaborator's friend, who went into kidney failure due to lupus erythematosus, and had been denied access to dialysis by their patient selection committee. Dialysis treatment at home was the only alternative and managed to extend her life another four years. Dr. Chris Blagg has stated that the first training predated the establishment of the home program: the \"first home patient wasn’t part of our program at all, he was president of a big Indian corporation, lived in Madras, and he came to Seattle just before I came in ’63. He came in early ’63, again, with his doctor and his wife and Dr. Scribner trained them to do dialysis at home and they went home to Madras.\"\n\nIn September 1964 the London group (led by Shaldon) started dialysis treatment at home. In the late 1960s, Shaldon introduced HHD in Germany.\n\nHome hemodialysis machines have changed considerably since the inception of the practice. Nosé's machine consisted of a coil (to transport the blood) placed in a household (electric) washing machine filled with dialysate. It did not have a pump and blood transport through the coil was dependent on the patient's heart. The dialysate was circulated by turning on the washing machine (which mixed the dialysate and resulted in some convection) and Nosé's experiments show that this indeed improved the clearance of toxins.\n\nIn the USA there has been a large decline in home hemodialysis over the past 30 years. In the early 1970s, approximately 40% of patients used it. Today, it is used by approximately 0.4%. In other countries HNHD use is much higher. In Australia approximately 11% of ESRD patients use HNHD.\n\nThe large decline in HHD seen in the 1970s and early 1980s is due to several factors. It coincides with the introduction and arise of continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) in the late 1970s, an increase in the age and the number of comorbidities (degree of \"sickness\") in the ESRD population, and, in some countries such USA, changes in how dialysis care is funded (which lead to more hospital-based hemodialysis).\n\nHome night-time (nocturnal) hemodialysis was first introduced by Baillod et al. in the UK and grew popular in some centers, such as the Northwest Kidney Centers, but then declined in the 1970s (coinciding with the decline in HHD). Since the early 1990s, NHHD has become more popular again. Uldall and Pierratos started a program in Toronto, which advocated long night-time treatments, (and coined the term 'nocturnal home hemodialysis') and Agar in Geelong converted his HHD patients to NHHD.\n\nCurrently, three hemodialysis machines are used for home hemodialysis in the United States. They are made by B. Braun Melsungen, Fresenius and NxStage, a division of Fresenius Medical Care. The systems take different approaches to the process of dialysis. The B Braun is a standard hemodialysis machine is used incenter and at home. The Fresenius \"Baby K\" home machine is close to a standard hemodialysis machines, but somewhat more user friendly and smaller. Both the B Braun and the Fresenius Baby K requires a separate reverse osmosis water treatment system which allow dialysate flow rates generally from 300 to 800 ml/minute.\n\nThe NxStage System One cycler uses far less dialysate per treatment with a maximum dialysate flow rate of 200 ml/minute but generally runs at rates less than 150 ml/minute. The NxStage System One can be used with bags of ultrapure dialysate - from 15 to 60 liters per treatment (see photo showing treatment in process). This allows the System One to be transportable; as of 2008 the company supports travel within the continental US and will assist travel to Alaska and Hawaii (travel to AK & HI will result in the patient having additional out of pocket costs). Generally, the supplies including the dialysate are delivered as they are scheduled to be used, either bimonthly or monthly but the amount of supplies can become a concern. The System One can also use a separate dialysate production device manufactured by NxStage - the PureFlow. The PureFlow uses a deionization process to create a 60, 50 or 40 liter batch of dialysate depending on the SAK (bag of dialysate concentrate) specified by the MD. A batch has a 96-hour shelf life and is usually used for two or three treatments, although some patients are using the entire 60, 50 or 40 liter batch for a single extended treatment.\n\nPatients on frequent daytime hemodialysis have done well on short sessions (1.5 hours) given 6 times per week, although this would total 9 hours per week, and is fewer hours per week than most patients being dialyzed 3x/week. When changing from a 3x/week to a 6x/week schedule, if total weekly time is left the same (each session length cut in half), patients typically will still remove a little bit more waste products initially than with conventional schedules, since the blood levels of toxins during the initial hour of dialysis are higher than in subsequent hours. Most patients treating themselves \"daily\" (6x/week) with daytime hemodialysis use session lengths of 2–3 hours. Longer session lengths give more benefit in terms of fluid and especially, phosphate removal. However, unless sessions are prolonged beyond 3–4 hours, almost all 6x/week patients will still require phosphate binders. Fluid and phosphate removal with \"daily\" dialysis are made more difficult because patients often feel better and increase protein (and thus also, phosphate) as well as fluid intake.\n\nWhen nocturnal dialysis is given 3 or 3.5 times (every other night) per week, the total weekly duration of dialysis is markedly prolonged, since each session typically lasts 6–8 hours, compared to 3–4 hours for conventional dialysis. This gives benefits in terms of fluid removal and phosphate removal, although about 1/2 to 2/3 of patients receiving this kind of treatment will still require phosphate binders. When such long nocturnal sessions are given 6x/week, in almost all patients phosphate binders can be stopped, and in a substantial number, phosphate needs to be added to the dialysate to prevent phosphate depletion. Because of the long weekly dialysis time, fluid removal is very well controlled, as the rate of ultrafiltration is quite low.\n\nWhereas adequacy of conventional dialysis is measured by urea reduction ratio URR or Kt/V, the question of adequacy of more frequent dialysis is based on opinion only and not on controlled trials. The KDOQI 2006 adequacy group, in their Clinical Practice Recommendations, suggested using the Standardized Kt/V as a minimum standard of adequacy for dialysis schedules other than 3x/week. A minimum standardized Kt/V value of 2.0 per week was suggested.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189329", "title": "East Fife (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "East Fife (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nEast Fife was a county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom from 1885-1983. Along with West Fife, it was formed by splitting the old Fife constituency.\n\nIt elected one Member of Parliament using the first-past-the-post voting system, and from 1886 to 1918 it was represented by the Liberal Prime Minister (1908–16), H. H. Asquith.\n\nIn 1885, the constituency comprised the parishes of Abdie, Abernethy, Anstruther Wester, Anstruther Easter, Auchtermuchty, Balmerino, Cameron, Carnbee, Ceres, Collessie, Crail, Creich, Cults, Cupar, Dairsie, Dunbog, Dunino, Elie, Falkland, Ferry-Port-on-Craig, Flisk, Forgan, Kemback, Kennoway, Kettle, Kilconquhar, Kilmany, Kilrenny, Kingsbarns, Largo, Leuchars, Logie, Monimail, Moonzie, Newburgh, Newburn, Pittenweem, St Andrews, St Leonards, St Monance, Scoonie and Strathmiglo.\n\nIn 1918, on the dissolution of the St Andrews Burghs constituency, the burghs of St Andrews, Anstruther Easter, Anstruther Wester, Crail, Cupar, Kilrenny and Pittenweem were added to the constituency.\nIt then consisted of \"The Cupar and St. Andrews County Districts, inclusive of all burghs situated therein, together with the burgh of Leven and so much of the Kirkcaldy County District as is contained within the extra-burghal portion of the parish of Scoonie and the parish of Kennoway.\"\n\nAsquith is appointed Secretary of State for the Home Department, requiring a by-election.\n\nIn the 1931 general election, James Duncan Millar was elected unopposed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189337", "title": "Bludenz District", "text": "Bludenz District\n\nThe Bezirk Bludenz is an administrative district (\"Bezirk\") in Vorarlberg, Austria.\n\nArea of the district is 1,287.63 km², population is 61,407 (January 1, 2012), and population density 48 persons per km². Administrative center of the district is Bludenz.\nThe district is divided into 29 municipalities, one of them is a town, and two of them are market towns.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189339", "title": "Fred Haney", "text": "Fred Haney\n\nFred Girard Haney (April 25, 1896 – November 9, 1977) was an American third baseman, manager, coach and executive in Major League Baseball (MLB). As a manager, he won two pennants and a world championship with the Milwaukee Braves. He later served as the first general manager of the expansion Los Angeles Angels in the American League. For years, Haney was one of the most popular baseball figures in Los Angeles. In 1974 he was presented with the King of Baseball award given by Minor League Baseball.\n\nBorn in Albuquerque, New Mexico, and raised in Los Angeles, Haney's major league playing career lasted all or part of seven seasons (1922–27, 1929). Primarily a third baseman—despite his diminutive (5 feet, 6 inches/1.67 m) size—Haney compiled a .275 batting average with 8 home runs and 229 RBI for the Detroit Tigers, Boston Red Sox, Chicago Cubs and St. Louis Cardinals. Much of his playing career was spent in his hometown with the city's two Pacific Coast League clubs, the original PCL Angels and the Hollywood Stars. He threw and batted right-handed.\n\nHaney became a manager in 1936, piloting the Toledo Mud Hens of the AA American Association, the top farm team of the St. Louis Browns. In 1939, he took over the lowly Browns and the team lost 111 games. They improved by 24 games in 1940, but when the 1941 Brownies dropped 32 of their first 44 contests, Haney was replaced by Luke Sewell.\n\nAfter briefly returning to Toledo to manage through 1942, Haney went home to Los Angeles (and the Coast League) as the radio play-by-play broadcaster for the Hollywood Stars and Los Angeles Angels for six seasons, starting in 1943. In 1949, he moved back into the dugout as the manager of the Hollywood club. During his four years (1949–52) as manager, the Stars won two PCL pennants.\n\nAs a reward, Haney was named manager of the Stars' parent club: the worst team in the National League, the Pittsburgh Pirates. The Pirates rang up three last place finishes in Haney's 1953–55 tenure, losing 104, 101 and 94 games. Finally, he was given the pink slip by the Bucs, and he joined the Milwaukee Braves as a coach for 1956. Adversity turned into good fortune, however, when the Braves—slow out of the gate in '56—fired skipper Charlie Grimm on June 17 and turned to Haney. Milwaukee played at a .630 clip for the rest of the season and improved from fifth to second place, only one game behind the Brooklyn Dodgers, securing Haney's tenure in the Beer City.\n\nDuring his tenure of a little more than 3 1/2 seasons, Haney led the Braves to their only two pennants and lone World Series championship in 13 years of existence (1953–65). Yet for all his managerial success in Milwaukee, Haney had more than his share of critics who believed it was largely the result of the immense talent around him. \n\nIn 1957, with a lineup that included future Baseball Hall of Fame members Hank Aaron, Eddie Mathews, Warren Spahn, and Red Schoendienst – and stars such as Lew Burdette, Bob Buhl, Johnny Logan and Del Crandall – the Braves won the National League pennant by eight games over the St. Louis Cardinals. During the regular season, Haney led the Braves in overcoming season-ending injuries to star first baseman Joe Adcock and fleet center fielder Bill Bruton, and slow starts to the season by their starting left fielder and second baseman, both of whom were traded in mid-June for Schoendienst.\n\nThen, led by Burdette's three complete-game victories in the World Series, the Braves defeated the New York Yankees in seven games – including winning the crucial seventh game 5–0 at Yankee Stadium with Burdette pitching – thus making him the World Series Most Valuable Player. Aaron received the National League Most Valuable Player award and Spahn won the lone Major League Cy Young Award (two Cy Young Awards were not given out per year until 1967).\n\nIn 1958, the Milwaukee Braves repeated as champions in a league that was in transition, this time again by a margin of eight games. The core of the Braves team was once again Aaron, Matthews, Adcock, Spahn and Burdette. However, Buhl was limited to 11 appearances because of health issues, while Adcock played in only 105 games and Wes Covington in just 90 also because of injuries. Nonetheless, in Spahn and Burdette, the team had the best starter tandem in the majors. Spahn recorded a 22–11 record in 290 innings, while Burdette posted a 20–10 mark in 275 innings. The Braves finished first in the National League with a 92–62 record and returned to the World Series.\n\nThe Yankees again won the American League, hence the two teams faced off against each other again in the World Series. The Braves roared ahead by winning three of the first four games in the series. The Yankees quickly regrouped, and they won Games 5, 6, 7 and the championship. The final two games were played at Milwaukee County Stadium. \n\nMany consider the turning point was Haney's controversial decision to start Burdette and Spahn on two days' rest each in the final two games, which had the appearance of a panic move, what with his team ahead 3-2 lead in the series. Some critics believe well-rested veteran Bob Rush would have been a wiser choice in Game 6, pointing to his effectiveness in the final two months of the regular season as well as in Game 3 of the series albeit it in a loss. That would have allowed Spahn, who had been victorious in his previous two starts, to open Game 7 if necessary on his accustomed three days' rest. At the same time, Burdette, who had struggled in his two starts, would have been available in the bullpen. Instead, Spahn pitched well in a 4-3, 10-inning loss in Game 6, then Burdette tired late in a 6-2 setback in the clincher. \n\nIn 1959, the Braves were back in the thick of contention again, with the same core of regular players, and a stronger pitching staff, since Buhl came back to pitch 200 innings in 31 games, with a 15–9 record. Spahn and Burdette were brilliant, each with a 21–15 record in 290 innings pitched and a combined 41 complete games. Aaron and Matthews had prolific seasons. Aaron led the league with careers highs in 223 hits, .355 batting average and 400 total bases. He had 39 home runs, 123 RBI and led the league in slugging percentage. Matthews paced the team with 46 home runs and batted in 114 runs.\n\nThe Braves finished in a tie with the Los Angeles Dodgers for first place, both with records of 86 wins and 68 losses. This forced the two teams into a best-of-three-games playoff. Once again, Haney bypassed Rush and others in favor of inexperienced starter Carlton Willey in Game 1, a 3-2 loss in Milwaukee. The Dodgers completed the two-game sweep the next day, 6-5, to capture the pennant in Haney's hometown of Los Angeles. A short time later, Haney, approaching the age of 61, was dismissed as Braves manager, and he was replaced by the former Dodger coach Chuck Dressen.\n\nIn his guide to baseball managers, author Bill James makes a detailed case for considering Haney's 1959 season at the helm of the Braves as the worst performance by an MLB manager. As he puts it: \"Without exaggeration, the 1959 Dodgers shouldn't have been within 20 games of the Braves In reality, the two teams ended up playing a three-game playoff, which the Dodgers swept in two games. Among Haney's mistakes that season: riding his two top pitchers, Warren Spahn and Lew Burdette into the ground while ignoring a number of talented youngsters who were available to pitch; platooning Joe Adcock with the awful Frank Torre long after Torre had demonstrated he was in a year-long slump; failing to settle on a solution when second baseman Red Schoendienst was lost for the season; and loading his bench with a group of grumpy and over-the-hill veterans from which he failed to get any production.\"\n\nWith his other two \"near misses\", Haney stands as by far the most successful manager of the Braves' years in Milwaukee. His career managing record — tarnished by poor teams in St. Louis and Pittsburgh — was 629–757 (). He won 341 games and lost 231 () with the Braves.\n\nHaney was not out of work long. In 1960 he made a brief return to broadcasting, teaming with Lindsey Nelson to call weekend baseball for NBC television. The following year, the American League granted an expansion team to Los Angeles, the Los Angeles Angels, and its owner, Gene Autry, chose Haney to operate the team and its organization for him. While the Angels usually struggled on the playing field during Haney's tenure as GM from 1961 to 1968, they did finish a surprising third in 1962, and contended for the 1967 pennant as well. Haney made the team competitive in its early years by selecting future stars such as the shortstop Jim Fregosi and the pitcher Dean Chance in the expansion draft, and acquiring sluggers such as Leon Wagner and Lee Thomas. Haney also oversaw the Angels' relocation in 1966 from Chavez Ravine down the freeway to Anaheim Stadium in Orange County.\n\nUpon his retirement at the end of the 1968 baseball season, Haney became a part-time consultant for the California Angels, and he was succeeded as the team's general manager by Dick Walsh.\n\nHaney died of a heart attack on November 9, 1977, at age 81 in Beverly Hills, California. He was interred in the Holy Cross Cemetery in Culver City, California.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189341", "title": "Steinar Hoen", "text": "Steinar Hoen\n\nSteinar Hoen (born 8 February 1971) is a retired Norwegian high jumper. He represented IK Tjalve during his senior career. He has been the meeting director for the Bislett Games since 2007. His indoor and outdoor bests are both 2.36 m – these are also the Norwegian records for the event.\n\nIn his early career he finished eleventh at the 1990 World Junior Championships, fourteenth at the 1991 World Championships, ninth at the 1992 European Indoor Championships and ninth at the 1993 IAAF World Indoor Championships. He competed at the 1992 Summer Olympics together with Håkon Särnblom without reaching the finals.\n\nIn 1994 he finished fourth at the European Indoor Championships before winning the European Championships in August with a jump of 2.35 metres. This result was a competition record for exactly twelve years, until Andrey Silnov surpassed it by 2.36 m.\n\nHoen came close to medals in 1995, with fourth places from both the World Indoor Championships and World Championships, before he won another European medal with a bronze medal at the 1996 European Indoor Championships. He then finished fifth at the 1996 Summer Olympics, eighth at the 1997 IAAF World Indoor Championships, fourth at the 1997 World Championships and sixth at the 1998 European Championships. He became Norwegian champion in the years 1991 and 1993-1998.\n\nHis personal best jump was 2.36 metres, achieved in July 1997 in Oslo. This is the current Norwegian record. He cleared 2.30 metres or more 32 times, whereas Särnblom only cleared this height or more twice. Hoen already had a personal indoor best of 2.36 m, from February 1994 in Balingen.\n\nHoen intended to make a brief comeback at the 2006 Norwegian championships, but failed to show up at the competition.\n\nHe lives at Strand.\n"}
{"id": "2189346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189346", "title": "Karl Nikolas Fraas", "text": "Karl Nikolas Fraas\n\nKarl Nikolas Fraas (8 September 1810 – 9 November 1875), German botanist and agriculturist, was born at Rattelsdorf, near Bamberg.\n\nAfter receiving his preliminary education at the gymnasium of Bamberg, he in 1830 entered the University of Munich, where he took his doctor's degree in 1834. Having devoted great attention to the study of botany, he went to Athens in 1835 as inspector of the court garden; and in April 1836 he became professor of botany at the university. In 1842 he returned to Germany and became teacher at the central agricultural school at Schleißheim. In 1847 he was appointed professor of agriculture at Munich, and in 1851 director of the central veterinary college. For many years he was secretary of the Agricultural Society of Bavaria, but resigned in 1861. He died at his estate of Neufreimann, near Munich.\n\nHis principal works are: \n\nHe also founded and edited a weekly agricultural paper, the \"Schranne\".\n\nKarl Marx took an interest in Fraas's work, writing to Engels on 25 March 1868 that he found Fraas's 1847 work \"Climate and the Vegetable World throughout the Ages, a History of Both\" \"very interesting, especially as proving that climate and flora have changed in historic times\". \nMarx calls Fraas \"a Darwinist before Darwin\" and goes on to say: This man is both a thoroughly learned philologist (he has written books in Greek) and a chemist, agricultural expert, etc. The whole conclusion is that cultivation when it progresses in a primitive way and is not consciously controlled (as a bourgeois of course he does not arrive at this), leaves deserts behind it, Persia, Mesopotamia, etc., Greece. Here again another unconscious socialist tendency! These references to Fraas are of interest to recent scholars of Marx's ecological ideas.\n"}
{"id": "2189355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189355", "title": "Johann Andreas Naumann", "text": "Johann Andreas Naumann\n\nJohann Andreas Naumann (13 April 1744 – 15 May 1826) was a German farmer and an amateur naturalist. He was the father of Johann Friedrich Naumann and geologist Georg Amadeus Carl Friedrich Naumann. He wrote an important book on the birds of Germany entitled \"Naturgeschichte der Vögel Deutschlands\" (1804), and his name has been commemorated in the Latin names of the birds lesser kestrel, \"Falco naumanni,\" and the Naumann's thrush, \"Turdus naumanni.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2189361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189361", "title": "Torstein Dahle", "text": "Torstein Dahle\n\nTorstein Dahle (born 20 February 1947) is a Norwegian politician and economist. He works at the Bergen University College and represents Red Party in the city council of Bergen. Dahle was born in Oslo.\n\nAt age 14 Dahle joined Lambertseter Youth Conservatives (Unge Høyre). He attended Oslo Cathedral School and Oslo Commerce School. After moving to Bergen in 1966 he was radicalized and joined AKP(m-l) in the early 1970s. Since its foundation in 2007 Dahle was leader of the Red Party, and he was previously leader of the Red Party's predecessor, Red Electoral Alliance, from 2003 to 2007. He was succeeded by Turid Thomassen in 2010. He was also a founding member of Red Electoral Alliance and Workers' Communist Party in 1973, but left the latter in 1997.\n\nOn 23 July 2007 he became subject to media attention when he said that the Taliban and other Afghan rebels had the full right of fighting the Norwegian soldiers of the International Security Assistance Force force stationed in Afghanistan. The attention occurred only days later with the death of a Norwegian army officer in the Logar Province as a Norwegian military unit came under hostile fire. He later commented that he did not support the death of Norwegian military personnel.\n\nDahle is openly homosexual since the late 1960s.\n"}
{"id": "2189362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189362", "title": "Phosphorus tribromide (data page)", "text": "Phosphorus tribromide (data page)\n\nThis page provides supplementary chemical data on phosphorus tribromide.\n\nExternal MSDS sheets:\n\nExcept where noted otherwise, data relate to standard ambient temperature and pressure.\n"}
{"id": "2189364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189364", "title": "Chaturaji", "text": "Chaturaji\n\nChaturaji (meaning \"four kings\", and also known as \"choupat\", IAST \"\", ) is a four-player chess-like game. It was first described in detail c. 1030 by Al-Biruni in his book \"India\". Originally, this was a game of chance: the pieces to be moved were decided by rolling two dice. A diceless variant of the game was still played in India at the close of the 19th century.\n\nThe ancient Indian epic \"Mahabharata\" contains a reference to a game, which could be chaturaji: Presenting myself as a Brahmana, Kanka by name, skilled in dice and fond of play, I shall become a courtier of that high-souled king. And moving upon chess-boards beautiful pawns made of ivory, of blue and yellow and red and white hue, by throws of black and red dice. I shall entertain the king with his courtiers and friends.\n\nThere is no certainty, however, whether the mentioned game is really a chess-like game like chaturaji, or a race game like Pachisi.\n\nAt the end of the 18th century, Hiram Cox put forth a theory (later known as the Cox–Forbes theory) that chaturaji is a predecessor of chaturanga and hence the ancestor of modern chess. The theory was developed by Duncan Forbes in the late 19th century, and was endorsed in an even stronger version by Stewart Culin. This theory was rejected by H. J. R. Murray in 1913, however, and modern scholars have sided with Murray. According to Forbes, this game is properly called \"chaturanga\", which is also the name of a two-player game. The term \"chaturaji\" refers to a position in the game comparable to checkmate in chess. Forbes believed that the North and South players (Black and Green) played as allies against the East and West players (Red and Yellow).\n\nThe game is played with pieces of four different colours as illustrated. Each player has four pieces on the back rank with four pawns in front of them on the second rank. The four pieces are \"king\", \"elephant\", \"horse\" and \"boat\" (or \"ship\" in some sources). The king moves like the chess king, the elephant like the chess rook and the horse like the chess knight. The boat corresponds to the chess bishop but has a more restricted range, like the alfil in shatranj. The boat moves two squares diagonally in any direction (see diagram), jumping over the intervening square. This differs from most ancient chess-like games where it is the elephant that normally corresponds to the chess bishop. Player turns pass clockwise around the board.\n\nThe pawn also moves as in chess, but does not have the option of an initial double-step move. Each of the four players' pawns moves and captures in a different direction along the board, as implied by the initial setup. For example, the red pawns which start on the g-file move left across the board, promoting on the a-file. Also, pawn promotion rules are different: one must promote to the piece that starts on the same (or ) of the promotion square (king included), and, the piece promoted to must have been previously captured.\n\nWhen a boat moves such that a 2×2 square filled with boats is formed, it captures all three boats of the other players (see diagram). This rule is called \"boat triumph\".\n\nOn each turn two dice are thrown. Usually oblong (four-sided) stick dice were used. Players were allowed to throw the dice in the air and catch them, exercising some control over the outcome. Pieces to be moved are determined by the die values (note that the stick dice had no \"1\" or \"6\"):\n\nOn each turn two moves can be made, one for each die. The same or two different pieces can be moved, and the player can skip one or both of his moves.\n\nThere is no check or checkmate; the king can be captured like any other piece. The goal of the game is to collect as many points as possible. Points are scored by capturing opponents' pieces, according to this scale:\n\nA score of 54 points is awarded to a player who manages to capture all three opponents' kings while his own king remains on the board. This value is a sum of points of all pieces in three armies.\n\n\nBibliography\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189378", "title": "Pig Lib", "text": "Pig Lib\n\nPig Lib is the second studio album by Stephen Malkmus and the Jicks, released on March 18, 2003 by Matador Records. It peaked at #97 in the U.S. and #63 in the UK. The first pressing of the record came with a bonus disc containing five never before released songs. As of June 2004, the album has sold 49,000 copies in the U.S. according to Nielsen SoundScan.\n\n\"Pig Lib\" received generally positive reviews from music critics. Christian Hoard, writing for \"Rolling Stone\", described the album as \"Malkmus' loosest set of songs ever, an elegantly meandering head trip underpinned by the kind of tuneful, world-wise romanticism that's won him the hearts of English majors everywhere\".\n\n\n\n\"The Poet and The Witch\" is a Mellow Candle cover.\n\n\"Shake It Around\" is an otherwise unreleased original.\n"}
{"id": "2189384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189384", "title": "Drinking bird", "text": "Drinking bird\n\nDrinking birds, also known as insatiable birdies, dunking birds, drinky birds, water birds or dipping birds, are toy heat engines that mimic the motions of a bird drinking from a water source. They are sometimes incorrectly considered examples of a perpetual motion device.\n\nA drinking bird consists of two glass bulbs joined by a glass tube (the bird's neck). The tube extends nearly all the way into the bottom bulb, and attaches to the top bulb but does not extend into it. The space inside the bird contains a fluid, usually colored. The fluid is typically dichloromethane, also known as methylene chloride. Earlier versions contained trichlorofluoromethane. Miles V. Sullivan's 1945 patent suggested ether, alcohol, carbon tetrachloride, or chloroform.\n\nAir is removed from the apparatus during manufacture, so the space inside the body is filled by vapor evaporated from the fluid. The upper bulb has a \"beak\" attached which, along with the head, is covered in a felt-like material. The bird is typically decorated with paper eyes, a plastic top hat, and one or more tail feathers. The whole setup pivots on an adjustable crosspiece attached to the neck.\n\nDespite the drinking bird's appearance and classification as a toy there is a potential danger of thin shards of glass should the bulb break. Early models were often filled with highly flammable substances, though the fluid in later versions is nonflammable. Dichloromethane can irritate the skin on contact and the lungs if inhaled. It may be dangerous to people with pre-existing heart, liver, or nervous system conditions and is a suspected carcinogen.\n\nThe drinking bird is a heat engine that exploits a temperature difference to convert heat energy to a pressure difference within the device, and performs mechanical work. Like all heat engines, the drinking bird works through a thermodynamic cycle. The initial state of the system is a bird with a wet head oriented vertically.\n\nThe process operates as follows:\n\n\nIf a glass of water is placed so that the beak dips into it on its descent, the bird will continue to absorb water and the cycle will continue as long as there is enough water in the glass to keep the head wet. However, the bird will continue to dip even without a source of water, as long as the head is wet, or as long as a temperature differential is maintained between the head and body. This differential can be generated without evaporative cooling in the head; for instance, a heat source directed at the bottom bulb will create a pressure differential between top and bottom that will drive the engine. The ultimate source of energy is the temperature gradient between the toy's head and base; the toy is not a perpetual motion machine.\n\nThe drinking bird is an exhibition of several physical laws and is therefore a staple of basic chemistry and physics education. These include:\n\nBy considering the difference between the wet and dry bulb temperatures, it is possible to develop a mathematical expression to calculate the maximum work that can be produced from a given amount of water \"drunk\". Such analysis is based on the definition of the Carnot heat engine efficiency and the psychrometric concepts.\n\nBy the 1760s (or earlier) German artisans had invented a so-called \"pulse hammer\" (\"Pulshammer\"). In 1767 Benjamin Franklin visited Germany, saw a pulse hammer, and in 1768, improved it. Franklin's pulse hammer consisted of two glass bulbs connected by a U-shaped tube; one of the bulbs was partially filled with water in equilibrium with its vapor. Holding the partially filled bulb in one's hand would cause the water to flow into the empty bulb. In 1872, the Italian physicist and engineer Enrico Bernardi combined three Franklin tubes to build a simple heat motor that was powered by evaporation in a way similar to the drinking bird.\n\nIn 1881 Israel L. Landis got a patent for a similar oscillating motor.\nA year later (1882), the Iske brothers got a patent for a similar motor.\nUnlike the drinking bird, the lower tank was heated and the upper tank just air-cooled in this engine. Other than that, it used the same principle. The Iske brothers during that time got various patents on a related engine which is now known as Minto wheel.\n\nA Chinese drinking bird toy dating back to 1910s~1930s named \"insatiable birdie\" is described in Yakov Perelman's \"Physics for Entertainment\". The book explained the \"insatiable\" mechanism: \"Since the headtube's temperature becomes lower than that of the tail reservoir, this causes a drop in the pressure of the saturated vapours in the head-tube ...\" It was said in Shanghai, China, that when Albert Einstein and his wife, Elsa, arrived in Shanghai in 1922, they were fascinated by the Chinese \"insatiable birdie\" toy.\nIn addition, the Japanese professor of toys, Takao Sakai, from Tohoku University, also introduced this Chinese toy.\nArthur M. Hillery got a patent in 1945. Arthur M. Hillery suggested the use of acetone as working fluid.\nThis Chinese invention was again patented in the US by Miles V. Sullivan in 1946.\nHe was a Ph.D. inventor-scientist at Bell Labs in Murray Hill, NJ, USA.\nThe drinking bird has been used in many fictional contexts to automatically press buttons. In \"The Simpsons\" episode \"King-Size Homer\", Homer used one to repeatedly press a key on a computer keyboard. Herb Powell also showed one to Homer as part of a demonstration regarding inventions in the episode \"Brother, Can You Spare Two Dimes?\". Two of them were used in the 1990 film \"Darkman\" to set off explosions. Drinking birds have appeared as part of a Rube Goldberg machine in the film \"Pee-wee's Big Adventure\" and the \"Family Guy\" episode \"8 Simple Rules for Buying My Teenage Daughter\".\n\nDrinking birds have been featured as plot elements in the 1951 Merrie Melodies cartoon \"Putty Tat Trouble\" and the 1968 science fiction thriller \"The Power\". They have also had minor appearances in several movies and TV shows, including the Woody Allen movie \"Sleeper\", the 1979 science fiction film \"Alien\" (also referenced in \"Alien 3 and \"), the 1989 comedy \"When Harry Met Sally...\", the 2008 film \"Max Payne\", the 2010 film \"Megamind\", and episodes of the American TV shows \"The Simpsons\", \"Mad Men\" and \"Ed, Edd n Eddy\". Episode 508 of \"Mystery Science Theater 3000\" features a spoof of the drinking bird called the \"Bobbing Buzzard\", which runs on carrion instead of water.\n\nAmong video games, the drinking bird appeared as the \"dunkin' dragon\" in the Sierra game \"\" (1989), in the Gremlin Interactive game \"Normality\" (1996), and as a \"water bird\" furniture item in the \"Animal Crossing\" games (2001). Porygon2, a Pokémon introduced in Generation II (\"Pokémon Gold\" and \"Silver\"), resembles a drinking bird, and in 3D \"Pokémon\" games, it moves its head in a \"dipping\" motion. More recently, in the game \"Quantum Conundrum\" (2012), one of the main gameplay mechanics is a drinking bird that is used as a timer to press buttons. In the 2014 Creative Assembly video game \"\", drinking birds are frequently seen on desks across the game's main setting, Sevastopol Station.\n\nIn Australian contemporary playwright John Romeril's play \"The Floating World\", drinking birds are a symbolic prop which represent the progression of Les's insanity. They are referred to as \"dippy birds\" and are perhaps used to symbolize such a thing due to Romeril's opinion of drinking birds being that they are insane for their uselessness and repeatability.\n\nIn 2003 an alternative mechanism was devised by Nadine Abraham and Peter Palffy-Muhoray of Ohio, USA, that utilizes capillary action combined with evaporation to produce motion, but has no volatile working fluid. Their paper \"A Dunking Bird of the Second Kind\" , was submitted to the American Journal of Physics, and published in June 2004. It describes a mechanism which, while similar to the original drinking bird, operates without a temperature difference. Instead it utilizes a combination of capillary action, gravitational potential difference and the evaporation of water to power the device.\n\nThis bird works as follows: it is balanced such that, when dry, it tips into a head-down position. The bird is placed next to a water source such that this position brings its beak into contact with water. Water is then lifted into the beak by capillary action (the authors used a triangular sponge) and carried by capillary action past the fulcrum to a larger sponge reservoir which they fashioned to resemble wings. When enough water has been absorbed by the reservoir, the now-heavy bottom causes the bird to tip into a head-up position. With the beak out of the water, eventually enough water evaporates from the sponge that the original balance is restored and the head tips down again. Although a small drop in temperature may occur due to evaporative cooling, this does not contribute to the motion of the bird. The device operates relatively slowly with 7 hours 22 minutes being the average cycle time measured.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189402", "title": "Doda district", "text": "Doda district\n\nDoda is a district in eastern part of Jammu Division of the Indian Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir. The district consists of 17 Tehsils: Thathri, Bhaderwah, Doda, Mahalla, Bhagwa, Assar, Bhalla, Gundana, Marmat, Kahara, Gandoh (Bhalessa), Bhella, Bharth Bagla, Chiralla, Chilli Pingal, Phagsoo(Fagsu) and Kashtigarh.\n\nThe demography of district Doda is complex as compared to its neighbouring districts primarily because of the wide diversity in its population. In the past, Doda was largely inhabited by Sarazi population before people started settling here from kashmir and other adjoining areas. The reasons for kashmiri population settling here in the past in 17th and 18th century is matter of ambiguity between historians. However Sumantra Bose says it was repression by feudal class that drew people to the district of Doda, Ramban and kishtwar.\n\nThe Doda district consists of areas drawn from the ancient principalities of Kishtwar and Bhadarwah, both of which became part of a district by the name of 'Udhampur' in the princely state of Jammu and Kashmir.\n\nIn 1948, the erstwhile Udhampur district was partitioned into the present Udhampur district, containing the Udhampur and Ramanagar tehsils, and a 'Doda' district containing the Ramban, Bhadarwah and Kishtwar tehsils.\n\nIn 2006, Ramban was made into an independent district and the hilly area to the east of the present Doda district was separated as the Kishtwar district. The remaining areas include the Doda tehsil carved out of Kishtwar and the original Bhadarwah, now divided into three tehsils.\n\nThe district was the site of the 2006 Doda massacre in which 35 Hindus were massacred.\n\nAccording to the 2011 census, Doda district has a population of 409,936, roughly equal to the nation of Malta. This gives it a ranking of 556th in India (out of a total of 640). The district has a population density of . Its population growth rate over the decade 2001–2011 was 27.89%.\n\nDoda has a sex ratio of 922 females for every 1000 males, and a literacy rate of 65.97%. The district has a Muslim majority 53.82%, with Hindus constituting 45.94% of the population and the remainder consisting of Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists and Jains. The Islamic faith had entered in this region as a spiritual and moral force when Hazarat Shah Freed-Ud-Din came via Dingbattle in 1650AD in Doda. He stayed at Doda for about 14 years and preached the thoughts of Islam, then he left for Kishtwar.\n\nProminent Scholar Sumantra Bose states that the majority of Doda Muslims are Kashmiri-speaking.A study conducted in 2014 identified 40% of the population as Kashmiri-speaking. A section of population also speaks a dialect named Sarazi.\n\nOther vernaculars include Bhadrawahi, a Western Pahari dialect spoken by about 53 000 people in Doda district, written in both the Arabic and Devanagari scripts.\n\nDoda's population comprises different communities and though people follow different religions and speak different languages, they have an essential unity.\n\nDoda's society therefore is a mixed one with Hindus and Muslims being two major communities. The population ratio between the Muslims and the Hindus in Doda region as per the census report of 2011 is around 60:40. Muslims of Doda are mostly ethnic Kashmiris and are culturally and linguistically connected to the people of Kashmir. Doda's Muslim society shares close social, cultural and political affinity with the Muslims of the Valley. Historical records say that most Muslims of the region are migrants from the Valley who left Kashmir on various occasions due to the fear of being persecuted by tyrant rulers or due to natural calamities like famine and floods.\n\nKashmiri, therefore, is one of the major languages spoken in the region. The Muslims of the area mostly speak Kashmiri while Hindus use other languages—for instance, Sarazi in Doda and Bhaderwahi in Bhaderwah. However, most of the people are well-versed with all the languages spoken in the area.\n\nAdministratively, the district has 406 villages. Doda District has been divided into three subdivisions viz., Doda, Bhaderwah and Bhalessa (Gandoh). It has twelve tehsils. There are eight Rural Development Blocks comprising Bhaderwah, Ghat (Doda), Thathri, Gandoh, Bhagwah, Assar, Marmat and Gundana. The number of Panchyats is 232.\n\nDoda District has two assembly constituencies: Bhaderwah and Doda.\n"}
{"id": "2189403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189403", "title": "Eater (novel)", "text": "Eater (novel)\n\nEater is a hard science fiction novel by American writer Gregory Benford. It was published in May 2000 by Eos. Heavy on the physics information, \"Eater\" describes humankind's encounter with a cosmic intelligence that comes in the form of a small black hole.\n\nIn the early 21st century, astronomers detect what appears to be a distant gamma-ray burster, a black hole engulfing another star many light years away. The data is bizarre and troubling, because only 13 hours later, a second burster appears, which, given the great distance between stars, would be impossible. Eventually, the astronomers realize that the black hole, rather than being incredibly far from us, is actually heading towards the Solar System, and moving our way at considerable speed. Stranger still, it seems to be moving under its own will; it is an intelligent being itself. This age-old cosmic being reveals that it had been born seven billion years ago and had become a wandering entity, feeding on asteroids, planets and various space debris, projecting itself forward in space through the process. Through the billions of years of its existence across the expanse of time and space, this intelligent entity has learned of many ancient civilizations in the universe. The black hole eventually sends a message to the people of Earth; it \"desires converse\". The black hole is willing to share the knowledge it had gained throughout the ages in return for the chance to \"chat\" with the humans. But eventually, something about the nature of the life-form is revealed. It prefers to learn about people by having their minds uploaded to it and demands that the best and brightest of Earth be sent to it in this way.\n\nThe three astronomer protagonists: Benjamin Knowlton; his cancer-stricken wife, Channing; and the British Astronomer Royal, Kingsley Dart, must save the Earth and all of humanity from annihilation at the hands of this entity that they dub the Eater.\n"}
{"id": "2189407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189407", "title": "Swift Motor Company", "text": "Swift Motor Company\n\nThe Swift Motor Company made Swift Cars in Coventry, England from 1900 until 1931. It grew progressively from James Starley's Coventry Sewing Machine Company, via bicycle and motorised cycle manufacture. The cars ranged from a single-cylinder car in 1900 using an MMC engine, through a Swift-engined twin-cylinder 7-horsepower light car in 1904, and a 3-litre model in 1913. After the First World War a successful range was sold during the 1920s, but the Cadet of 1930 was its last vehicle as it could not compete economically with volume manufacturers such as Ford and Morris Motors.\n\nThe Coventry Sewing Machine Company was founded by James Starley in 1859. It started making bicycles in 1869 and changed the name to Coventry Machinists Company. In 1896 it became the Swift Cycle Company and started to make motorcycles in 1898, and experimenting with an early car in 1900. In 1902 a separate company was formed for motor vehicle production and registered as the Swift Motor Company.\n\nAfter World War 1 ended, the Cycle Car company was merged with the main company as Swift of Coventry and the range was simplified.\n\nIn 1919, A Harper Bean & Sons, who also made Bean Cars, bought 50% of Swift's ordinary shares, but got into severe financial difficulties later that year, seriously affecting the company's finances.\n\nThe last Swift car was the 1930 Cadet. Swift was too small to compete with the likes of Ford and Morris, and closed in 1931 after its suppliers foreclosed on its debts. Coventry Climax was left with a number of engines from the Cadet model, which it used as the basis of its Second World War fire pump engine designated FSM, the SM standing for Swift Motors.\n\nProduction was originally in the Cheylesmore Works but in 1906 car assembly moved to a new factory, Quinton Works in Mile Lane. Some of the cars were equipped with engines manufactured in Saint-Denis Paris by Aster in single, twin or four cylinder configurations.\n\nIn 1869, 'Coventry Machinists' started making bicycles and in 1896 it became the 'Swift Cycle Company'. In 1898 it started making motorcycles.\n\nSwift made its first single-cylinder car in 1900 using an MMC engine. It had an unusual transmission system involving an unsprung two ratio rear axle. The Swift voiturettes, described in the Automotor Journal of 1902, were modified in 1903 to include a reverse gear.\n\nThe Swift cycle car at the 1912 Olympia Motor Cycle and Cycle Car Show was described as a true motor car on a small scale (but for the fact it was constructed of weldless steel tubing). The twin cylinder vertical water-cooled engine was said to resemble just two cylinders of the 13.9 hp Swift standard model, and with a bore of 75mm and stroke of 110mm, it had a capacity of 970cc and rating of 7 hp. The gearbox operated by gated change offered three forward speeds and reverse.\n\nThe 1914 model was exhibited at the 1913 Olympia show, the company still named Swift Cycle Co Ltd, at which time its price was £140 'fully equipped'. For 1914 the car changed over to steel channel frame carried on four semi-elliptic leaf springs. The car had worm and sector steering, and the brakes comprised a pedal operated transmission brake and two hand-lever operated external contracting brakes. The two-seater body had the seats slightly staggered, and the specification included the hood, adjustable windscreen, a boot, mudguards, running boards, and an acetylene lighting set. The engine remained at 970cc and was fitted with an Eisemann magneto and Claudel carburettor. The clutch was a leather lined cone type fitted into the external flywheel. The petrol tank was placed behind the dashboard and fed the carburettor by gravity.\n\nAfter World War 1 the Cycle Car company was merged with the main car company as Swift of Coventry.\n\nThe first Swift car of the conventional type was the twin-cylinder 7-horsepower, later 10-horsepower, of 1904. This was shortly afterwards joined by the four-cylinder 12/14, which continued in a bewildering number of guises until the First World War. These cars were entirely built at the Swift works, with the exception of the engines which were built in Coventry by Messrs White and Poppe.\n\nIn 1904, the Swift Cycle Company Ltd. made a single-cylinder 700 cc car (possibly a voiturette) which had a cloverleaf emblem on its radiator, an emblem that was adopted by all the cars. In the years 1909–11 another single-cylinder 7 hp car was manufactured, this time with 1100 cc (105mm bore and 127mm stroke). This car was also sold by Austin as the first Austin 7.\n\nA larger car, the 15, with a 3-litre engine was added to the range in 1913, and this continued to just post-war. During the First World War, car production ceased.\n\nAfter the war ended, the Cycle Car company was merged with the main company as Swift of Coventry. A Harper Bean & Sons, who also made Bean Cars, bought 50% of Swift's ordinary shares in 1919, but got into severe financial difficulties later that year, seriously affecting the company's finances.\n\nThe Swift range was simplified with the excellent 1100 cc 10 continuing and joined by a 2-litre 12 with a 4-speed gearbox. A new 10 was launched in 1923 as the Q type with coil ignition, electric starting, optional front wheel brakes and a top speed of . Standard front wheel brakes were added in 1926 and the engine was bored out to 1190 cc to become the P type. The engine grew again to 1307 cc in 1929 when the car became the P2.\n\nFrom 1924 Swift supplied Q type engines for the Ariel Ten light car. This model continued until 1925, when Ariel ceased making cars to concentrate on motorcycles.\n\nIn 1925 the Swift 12 was replaced by the 12/35 with front wheel brakes, plate clutch plus an increase of in the wheelbase.\n\nThe last Swift car was the 1930 Cadet, which was an attempt to compete with the £100 cars. This had an 850 cc Coventry Climax engine and a price of £149 for the tourer and £165 for the saloon. But Swift was too small to compete with the likes of Ford and Morris and closed in 1931 after its suppliers foreclosed on its debts. Coventry Climax was left with a number of engines for the Cadet model, which it used as the basis of its Second World War fire pump engine designated FSM, the SM standing for Swift Motors.\n\nThe Quinton Works with frontages on Quinton Road and Mile Lane in Cheylesmore, Coventry, originally built in 1890 for S & B Gorton for cycle manufacture, was acquired in 1905 by the Swift Motor Company, who made a motorcycle and a motor tricycle in 1898, and a conventional car by 1901 in its Cheylesmore Works in Little Park Street, but needed more factory space.\nThe frontages of the Quinton Works have been preserved and the building is now used as a hotel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189408", "title": "Alexander von Nordmann", "text": "Alexander von Nordmann\n\nAlexander von Nordmann (24 May 1803 in Ruotsinsalmi (now Kotka), Finland – 25 June 1866 in Helsinki) was a 19th-century Finnish biologist, who contributed to zoology, parasitology, botany and paleontology.\n\nNordmann was a son of an officer of the Russian army at the Ruotsinsalmi fortress, SE Finland. He started academic studies at the Imperial Academy of Turku, and at that time also acted as a curator of the entomological collections. In 1827 he continued studies in Berlin with the famous parasitologist and anatomist Karl Rudolphi. His first major work was a microscopical description of tens of parasitic worms and crustaceans from the eyes and other organs of fishes and other animals, including man. These included the enigmatic monogenean \"Diplozoon paradoxum\".\n\nIn 1832 he was appointed a professor (teacher) at the Lyceum Richelieu in Odessa, Ukraine, and in 1834 also the director of the Odessa Botanical Garden and the associated Central Gardening School. He participated in several expeditions and collected natural history specimens in southern Russia and adjacent regions. Later, in 1849, he became professor of Zoology and Botany at the Imperial Alexander University in Finland (Helsinki). He died of heart failure on 25 June 1866.\n\nThe cladoceran \"Evadne nordmanni\", the Nordmann fir \"Abies nordmanniana\" and at least seven other species and one genus (\"Nordmannia\") have been named after him. The standard author abbreviation Nordm. is used to indicate this individual as the author when citing a botanical name.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189416", "title": "Harem (album)", "text": "Harem (album)\n\nHarem is the eighth studio album by English singer and songwriter Sarah Brightman, released in the United States on 10 June 2003 through Angel Records. The album continued the collaboration between Brightman and her longtime producer Frank Peterson.\n\nAlthough it has an inclination towards her signature operatic performance, the album encompasses dance-oriented and uptempo styles in keeping with a celebratory motif. In contrast to the classical crossover music style that framed her previous releases, \"Harem\" showcases a wider range of genres, exploring World music-related styles, such as Arabic and Indian music.\n\n\"Harem\" received generally positive reviews. The Arabian-flavoured album was commercially well received in certain territories. It became Brightman's first top 10 album ever in Japan and debuted in Canada at No. 7. It topped the US Top Classical Albums chart for seven consecutive weeks. With \"Harem\", Brightman became the only artist ever to have simultaneously held the number 1 spot in \"Billboard\"s Classical and Dance charts.\n\nFollowing the release of \"Harem\", Brightman launched the Harem World Tour, followed by the \"Harem: a Desert Fantasy\" and \"\" DVDs.\n\nAbout the album, Brightman said: \"I wanted to record an album with a Middle Eastern feel. It just felt like the right way to go, just a feeling at first, which is how I begin all my albums\". \"I have always loved that whole Arabian Nights feeling. Much of what we have created derives from my childhood reading. I was a C.S. Lewis fan. I like the idea of parallel worlds, faraway lands, mystery – I've traveled a huge amount over the years, which has influenced me immensely\".\n\n\"Harem\" was produced by Brightman's longtime collaborator/producer Frank Peterson. Jaz Coleman (Killing Joke) created the orchestrations in sumptuous layers of instrumental sound both Eastern and Western. The album features orchestral musicians from as far apart as Prague and Cairo, as well as instrumentalists from all over the world. Also joining Brightman are acclaimed classical violin Nigel Kennedy and singer Kadim Al Sahir, as well as Natacha Atlas, Ofra Haza and Shweta Shetty.\n\nBrightman’s first taste of desert life came when she was a little girl, a dancer at the Elmhurst Ballet School. Her parents took her to Northern Africa on holiday. \"I believe it was Tunisia\", Brightman remembered, \"I also traveled to Marrakech when I was younger. I've always liked the idea of the outsider in these areas. It's why I like Paul Bowles. It's also why I called the album \"Harem\". It means forbidden place if you translate it. It's in your imagination, but you don't really go there. You maybe don't want to go there, but it's a mystical place. It's ancient. People have journeyed there and come back changed\".\n\nSarah Brightman's official website describes the album as \"heady and intoxicating\" and \"without doubt, the most expansive and cinematic of Sarah's albums yet\". \nBrightman and producer Frank Peterson combined their contemporary and dance-oriented sensibilities with the exotic instrumentation and melodic phrases of bygone eras. \"Harem\" is part of Brightman's continued experimentation with concept albums. It explores World music-related styles, such as Arabic and Indian music. According to Jerry McCulley of Amazon.com, \"Brightman steps into that pan-cultural hall of mirrors here, wedding her fascination with the music and rhythms of the 'forbidden places' (the title's Arabic meaning) of the Middle East to her own oft ethereal vocal charms and rock-solid sense of drama\". Jason Shawhan of Artist Direct said \"the entire record is built around a Middle Eastern theme, and many instruments native to that region flow through the mix of baroque pop, crunch-opera, eurodisco, and passionate balladry\". The editorial review of Barnes & Noble states that \"the disc dips into worldbeat territory while showcasing the multi-million-selling artist's haunting voice\".\n\nThe title track of \"Harem\" is an adaptation of \"Canção do Mar,\" a classic from Portugal's fado tradition. Roxanne Seeman, Sarah Brightman and producer Frank Peterson wrote new lyrics for the melody, in which the singer hears a connection between Middle Eastern sounds and the ancient inspirations of fado. Brightman said, \"I've loved this song for ages. In our version, I wanted it to have a contemporary, Arabian Nights feel – love, the desert, passion and fire but also with a dance feeling.\"\nThe singer's imagination drove a new sound for some classic hits – ranging from \"What a Wonderful World\" and \"Stranger in Paradise\" – both bathed in the Eastern atmosphere that has inspired her. \"Stranger in Paradise\" circles back to Borodin's voluptuous Polovetsian Dances for its rich orchestral textures, cradling Brightman's crystalline singing. \"What a Wonderful World\" is an audacious reinvention of a well-traveled pop feel-good anthem – edgier this time, tinged with melancholy. \"It's a Beautiful Day\" features the singer's operatic voice; in this song Puccini's \"Un Bel di\" is artfully coalesced with driving synthesizer beats and Middle Eastern refrains. \"The melody has this feeling of space, of mystery, of times gone by\", Brightman said.\n\n\"What You Never Know\" is the album's first Canadian single and the work of songwriter Stephan Moccio who wrote \"A New Day Has Come\", the title song for Céline Dion's album. Brightman said that her first meeting with him sparked the collaboration. \"It was wonderful\", she said. \"He even knew the key I sound best in. He understood about simplicity, and I told him, 'I don't want you to have barriers – write something for me that you really feel.' This song has that 'inside' feeling. I heard it immediately\".\n\"The Journey Home\" comes from Indian film composer A.R. Rahman's hit West End Bollywood musical Bombay Dreams, produced in London by Andrew Lloyd Webber. It was Lloyd Webber who brought the song to Brightman's attention. \"I've been in love with Indian films, and I've known Rahman's music for a long time. When I heard the song I really, really liked it. It has a different interpretation here than in the musical, but it has the right feel\".\n\"Free\" lends \"Harem\" the French connection Brightman wanted it to have. The song was actually written in German, about the cathartic end of a love affair. The lyrics were, to Brightman \"amazing, but it was very difficult to make them fit in English\". A French translation of the English version helped solve the problem, and the gentle commentary of Kennedy's violin gives the track an even greater intensity.\nThe lyrics of \"Mysterious Days\" lend Harem a hipper, more modern sensibility in its evocation of American expatriates in Marrakech – Paul Bowles, in particular, and The Sheltering Sky. \"It talks about the Casbah, working in the attic, the mix of the city and the Americans working there, and it has a dance aspect to it as well\", Brightman said.\n\"The War Is Over\" embraced an end to the conflicts in love – eloquently brings Sarah Brightman together with the Iraqi singer Kadim Al Sahir, as well as the classical violin virtuoso Kennedy. \"We asked Kadim to do this song with me because we knew of his voice\", Brightman said.\n\nBrightman takes on an active writing role in this album and is credited with writing or co-writing the lyrics and/or music to \"Harem\", \"It's A Beautiful Day\", \"Free\", \"The War Is Over Now\" and \"You Take My Breath Away\".\n\n\"Harem\" was physically released in Japan on 19 March 2003. The album was digitally released worldwide by Angel Records on 28 April 2003.\n\n\"Harem\" was released as the album's lead single. The original version was \"Canção do Mar\", a song first performed by Fado singer Amália Rodrigues in 1955 and later popularised by Dulce Pontes. The Remixes EP was released on 4 November 2003. It reached no. 1 on the US Billboard Dance/Club Play Songs chart.\n\"It's a Beautiful Day\", the album's second international single, features an excerpt of \"Un bel dì vedremo\", from Puccini's opera \"Madama Butterfly\".\n\"What You Never Know\" was released as the first single in Canada. The release (17 June 2003) included the French version \"Tout ce que je sais\".\nThe fourth and final overall single was \"Free\". It was released on 21 June 2004. It ranked No. 3 on the US Billboard Dance/Club Play Songs chart. \"What A Wonderful World/Strangers in Paradise\" was released as a double A-side single in East Asia.\n\nBrightman began a promotional tour in support of the album, beginning on 23 April 2003 on the Japanese \"News Station\" news program of TV Asahi. She performed \"Beautiful\", \"Question of Honour\" and \"Sarahbande\".\nOn 2 May, Brightman went to Taiwan for a 4-day stay in Taipei. \nDuring the promotional tour in Germany (from 20–24 May), the singer performed \"It’s a Beautiful Day\" and \"Time to Say Goodbye\" on ARD's \"Hits, Hits, Hits 25 Years Superstars & Megahits\" special event. Brightman made an appearance at the Grand Prix Eurovision de la Chanson für Deutschland performing \"It's a Beautiful Day\" and \"Harem\". Later on, she performed \"Harem\" at the \"Goldene Henne\" TV show on 29 September 2003. One month later, Brightman joined Schiller on stage to perform \"The Smile\", a track included in the Harem Tour CD. \nFinland was Brightman's final stop in Europe. She performed \"Harem\" and \"It's a Beautiful Day\" at the Suomen Neito beauty contest.\nPromotional appearances took place in Canada at the end of May. She performed \"Harem\" at Fashion Cares event, and also appeared at the Canada AM morning show. The singer later performed at the Canadian concert series \"Live at the Rehearsal Hall\" during October. Promotion in Canada continued in January 2004 with Brightman's Arabian-themed concert on CBC's \"Opening Night\", which included British violinist Nigel Kennedy and Iraqi singer Kadim Al Sahir as guest performers.\nPromotion in the United States started on 9 June. An autograph session in New York City was held and Brightman later appeared on \"The Sharon Osbourne Show\".\nBrightman went to Brazil's \"Hebe\" show twice to promote the album. The first time, in 2003, she performed \"Harem\", and during the second visit, in 2004, she sang \"What a Wonderful World\".\nBrightman was a headlining performer at the 2004 Arabian Music Awards in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, and in August, she performed \"The War Is Over\" with Kadim Al Sahir at the Beiteddine Festival in Beirut, Lebanon. In Jordan, Brightman made a live guest appearance at the International Souk Ukaz cultural festival to sing her duet with Kadim Al Sahir.\n\n\"Harem – The Sarah Brightman Special\" was used as a promotional tool. It premiered at the New York Film Festival where later won the first prize for \"Best Musical Documentary\" and was later broadcast in the United States through PBS and in several other countries: Croatia (HRT), Turkey (CNBC-e), Finland (MTV3), Singapore (Arts Central TV), Canada (CBC). It was later released on DVD as \"Harem – a Desert Fantasy\".\n\nBeginning on 10 January 2004 and ending on 23 December 2004 the tour spanned 119 stops, with sixty-eight in North America, twenty-four in Asia, twenty in Europe and five in Oceania.\nThe Harem World Tour grossed $60 million and sold 800,000 tickets in total, $15 million and 225,000 sales of which came from the North American leg.\n\nJason Shawhan of Artist Direct gave the album 4 and a half stars out of 5, saying that \"Brightman and producer/long time collaborator Frank Peterson have outdone themselves with this effort, it's a beautiful piece of work worth the listening\". Aaron Latham of Allmusic gave the album 3 stars out of 5, writing that while \"adopting a Middle Eastern flavor to enhance her blend of classical and new age pop, Sarah Brightman's Harem continues her experimentation with thematic discs that began with 1993's oceanic \"Dive\". Brightman's Harem adventure is interesting enough to have listeners packed and ready to travel with her on another musical journey\".\n\nAt the 2004 Arabian Music Awards, Sarah Brightman received the award for Best International Female Artist. Also, her song \"The War Is Over\" with Iraqui singer Kadim Al Sahir won the award for the Best Collaboration.\n\n\"Harem\" became Brightman's first top 10 album ever in Japan selling 17,952 copies at its peak position of No. 4. It was certified Gold there after selling over 100,000 copies.\nIn Canada, the album debuted at the top 10. It entered the chart at No. 7 selling 6,300 copies in the first week. It remained inside the top 10 in the following week landing at #8. It later achieved Gold status for shipments of over 50,000 copies. The album reached the no. 1 spot on Turkey's D&R international sales chart. It topped the \"Billboard\" Top Classical Albums chart for seven consecutive weeks and it spent 105 weeks on the chart. In the United States, the album underperformed expectations, with sales tracked by Nielsen SoundScan figuring at approximately 333,000, or about one-third the total sales of Brightman's previous studio album, \"La Luna\".\n\n\n!scope=\"row\"|Middle East (IFPI)\n"}
{"id": "2189419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189419", "title": "Procompsognathus", "text": "Procompsognathus\n\nProcompsognathus is an extinct genus of coelophysid theropod dinosaur that lived approximately 210 million years ago during the later part of the Triassic Period, in what is now Germany. \"Procompsognathus\" was a small-sized, lightly built, ground-dwelling, bipedal carnivore, that could grow up to 1 m (3.3 ft) long.\n\nThe fragmentary and poorly preserved skeleton of \"Procompsognathus\" was found in the Middle Stubensandstein member of the Löwenstein Formation at the \"Weiße Steinbruch\", the quarry of Albert Burrer on the northern slopes of the Stromberg region near Pfaffenheim in Württemberg, Germany. The discovery was made by Albert Burrer in the spring of 1909 in white sandstone and gray/blue marl sediments that were deposited during the Norian stage of the Triassic period, approximately 210 million years ago.\n\nThe holotype SMNS 12591, consisted of three blocks of sandstone: one showed a small, seven-centimetre-long, severely crushed skull with lower jaws. The second and third contained the partly articulated remains of a postcranial skeleton, including twenty-nine vertebrae of the neck, back and tail; ribs; elements of the shoulder girdle and a forelimb; an ilium; both pubis and the hindlimbs. It represents an adult individual.\n\nBurrer sent the specimen to Professor Eberhard Fraas of the \"königliche Stuttgarter Naturalienkabinett\". In a lecture on 9 October 1911, Fraas referred to it by the name \"Hallopus celerrimus\", considering it jumping form of dinosaur that was approximately long, and was associated with the origin of birds. Later, Fraas decided to use a different name in the official publication. Fraas in 1913 named the genus \"Procompsognathus\" with as type species, \"Procompsognathus triassicus\". The type specimen is housed in the collection of the State Museum of Natural History in Stuttgart, Germany.\n\nIn 1921, Friedrich von Huene referred two more specimens, both also found in the Burrer quarry, in 1908, to \"Procompsognathus\": SMNS 12352, a partial skull and lower jaws from a larger individual than the holotype, and SMNS 12352a, an isolated left hand.\n\nThe genus name \"Procompsognathus\", means \"before elegant jaw\", and is derived from the name of another dinosaur, \"Compsognathus\". A later (Jurassic) small predatory dinosaur, \"Compsognathus\" takes its name from the Greek word \"kompsos\" (κομψός) which can be rendered as \"elegant\", \"refined\" or \"dainty\" and the Greek word \"gnathos\" (γνάθος) which means \"jaw\". The prefix \"Pro\" (προ) implies \"before\" or \"ancestor of\", although this direct lineage was not supported by subsequent research. The specific name \"triassicus\" refers to the geologic time period to which this dinosaur belongs, the Triassic.\n\n\"Procompsognathus\" may have been about long, though Fraas in 1913 estimated a length of . In 2010 Gregory S. Paul gave an estimate of for the weight with a length of . A biped, \"Procompsognathus\" had long hind legs, short arms, large clawed hands, a long slender snout with many small teeth, and a stiff tail. The femur discovered for the type specimen of this genus measures 93mm and the tibia, 112mm. The tibia is approximately 20% longer than the femur in \"Procompsognathus\", an adaptation which has been strongly correlated with the development of cursorial habits in dinosaurs, suggesting that they were good runners.\n\nA diagnosis is a statement of the anatomical features of an organism (or group) that collectively distinguish it from all other organisms. Some, but not all, of the features in a diagnosis are also autapomorphies. An autapomorphy is a distinctive anatomical feature that is unique to a given organism or group. In 2000, Rauhut noted that its scapula is more slender than that of \"Coelophysis bauri\".\n\nIn 1998 Chatterjee noted that the skull of \"Procompsognathus\" possesses a suite of theropod synapomorphies, which included:\n\nWhile it is undoubtedly a small, bipedal carnivore, the extremely poor preservation of the only known \"Procompsognathus\" fossil makes its exact identity difficult to determine. Fraas originally assigned it to the Dinosauria. In 1923 Franz Nopcsa coined a Procompsognathinae, and in 1929 von Huene created a Procompsognathidae, though these concepts are today rarely used. In 1932 von Huene saw it as a member of the non-dinosaurian Pseudosuchia. It has since then usually been considered a theropod dinosaur, with some exceptions. In 1992 Paul Sereno and Rupert Wild stated that the holotype specimen consisted of fossils from two separate animals: the postcranial skeleton would be a theropod, likely a coelophysoid related to \"Segisaurus\", but the skull and the von Huene specimens they referred to the basal crocodylomorph \"Saltoposuchus connectens\". However, in 1993 Sankar Chatterjee after further preparation refuted their assessment and regarded the skull as that of a theropod similar to \"Syntarsus\", and demonstrated that it could not have been a crocodylomorph, as it lacks the landmark features of this group. Sereno (1997) and Ezcurra and Novas (2007) conducted phylogenetic analysis that supported the placement of \"Procompsognathus\" in the taxon Coelophysidae. This genus may be most closely related to \"Segisaurus halli\".\n\nMuch controversy has arisen however, about the association with the later material referred by von Huene. In 1982 John Ostrom claimed that SMNS 12352 and SMNS 12352a originated from a taxon different from the holotype. In 2006 and 2008 Fabien Knoll concluded that SMNS 12352 represented a crocodylomorph and SMNS 12352a a crocodylomorph or some other basal archosaur. The postcranial skeleton, for which he reserved the inventory number SMNS 12591, was a coelophysoid; and the skull, now indicated with the number SMNS 12591a, a perhaps more derived theropod, possibly a basal member of the Tetanurae. In 2012 Knoll after a CAT-scan reaffirmed that SMNS 12352 was a crocodylomorph, but established it was different from \"Saltoposuchus\".\n\nOliver Rauhut and Axel Hungerbuhler (2000) noted features of the vertebrae which suggest that \"Procompsognathus\" may be a coelophysid or ceratosaur, and Carrano \"et al.\" (2005), in their re-study of the related genus \"Segisaurus\", found both \"Segisaurus\" and \"Procompsognathus\" to belong to the Coelophysidae within Dinosauria. In 2004 David Allen considered \"Procompsognathus\" to be a primitive, non-dinosaurian ornithodiran.\n\n\"Procompsognathus\" lived in a relatively dry, inland environment and may have eaten insects, lizards and other small prey. Contemporaries of \"Prompsognathus\" included the coelophysoids \"Halticosaurus\" and \"Dolichosuchus\", as well as the Sauropodomorphs \"Plateosaurus gracilis\" and \"Efraasia minor\". Weishampel, \"et al.\" (2004) noted that theropod tracks and fossils of an unnamed herrerasaur genus are known from the Lower Stubensandstein.\n\n\"Procompsognathus\" appears in the novel \"Jurassic Park\" and its sequel \"The Lost World\" by Michael Crichton. The species is sometimes referred to as \"compys\" by the characters. While the author invents a venomous bite for \"Procompsognathus\" with soporific effects, there is no evidence to support venom in \"Procompsognathus\".\n"}
{"id": "2189429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189429", "title": "SS Mael and Sulien's Church, Corwen", "text": "SS Mael and Sulien's Church, Corwen\n\nSaint Mael and Saint Sulien's Church is a church located in the town of Corwen in Denbighshire in Wales. It was formerly in the ancient county of Merionethshire.\n\nThe church itself dates from the twelfth century and is a single-chambered structure set within a rectangular churchyard, with walls of fourteenth- or fifteenth-century origin. Its baptismal font dates from the twelfth or thirteenth century and the churchyard includes a tomb from the seventeenth century, besides war graves of two soldiers of World War I.\n\nThe church is dedicated to St Mael and St Sulien, two Celtic saints of the sixth century, though it has been suggested that an earlier foundation stood on the hill above. Saints Mael and Sulien are said to have been companions of the Breton Saint Cadfan (c. 530-ca. 590), who led a group of missionaries to Western Wales with Saint Tydecho, a cousin, and Saint Cynllo, a friend. They were also accompanied by nine children of Ithel Hael o Lydaw (Baglan, Flewyn, Gredifael, Tanwg, Twrog, Tegai, Trillo, Tecwyn and Llechid), all of whom became saints in the calendar of the Welsh church. One of them, St Trillo, founded a church just outside Corwen at Llandrillo. There was a Saint Sulien or Sulian who was abbot of Luxulyan, in mid Cornwall, during the sixth century. Sulien is a Welsh variant of the given name \"Julian,\" but has also been interpreted as being derived from the Welsh \"sul\", meaning \"sun\" + \"geni\", meaning \"born,\" Sulien being the name of a Celtic solar deity.\n\nSt Mael and St Sulien's offers services in both English and Welsh.\n\nIn 1709 the wealthy land-owner and benefactor William Eyton established \"Coleg y Groes\" (), attached to St Mael and St Sulien's Church. The College still stands. Eyton established the College as a community of widows, with the intention of providing both an alms house for the residents, and a community of daily prayer attached to the church. Entrance to the College was through the churchyard, with no direct road access (although secondary access is now provided). The College has a central reception and bakehouse room, beyond which are six individual residences on two storeys (of the one-up, one-down style). Eyton specified that each of the six residences was to be occupied by the widow of a Clerk in holy orders, who must have been a clergyman of the Church of England (the Welsh Anglican church was not yet independent of England in 1750), who had been \"in possession of a cure of souls\" (in office) within the County of Merioneth at the time of his death. Today the original College building is in good order, and easily accessible by means of a path from the church or an independent access. It is in use as a retreat centre, and its original layout is largely intact. It is a grade II* listed building.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189433", "title": "Bernard B. Fall", "text": "Bernard B. Fall\n\nBernard B. Fall (November 19, 1926 – February 21, 1967) was a prominent war correspondent, historian, political scientist, and expert on Indochina during the 1950s and 1960s. Born in Austria, he moved with his family to France as a child after Germany's annexation, where he started fighting for the French Resistance at the age of sixteen, and later the French Army during World War II.\n\nIn 1950 he first came to the United States for graduate studies at Syracuse University and Johns Hopkins University, returning and making his residence there. He taught at Howard University for most of his career and made regular trips to Southeast Asia to learn about changes and the societies. He predicted the failures of France and the United States in the wars in Vietnam because of their tactics and lack of understanding of the societies. He was killed by a landmine while accompanying United States Marines on a patrol in 1967.\n\nBernard Fall was born in Vienna, Austria to Jewish parents Leo Fall and Anna Seligman. His family migrated in 1938 when he was a child to live in France, when Austria was annexed by Nazi Germany. After France fell to Germany in 1940, his father Leo Fall aided the French Resistance. Leo Fall was captured, tortured and killed by the Gestapo. His mother was also captured and deported to Auschwitz, where she died.\n\nIn 1942, at the age of sixteen, Bernard Fall followed in his father's footsteps and joined the French Resistance, after which time he fought the Germans in the Alps. As France was being liberated in 1944, Fall joined the French Army, in which he served until 1946. For his service, he was awarded the French Liberation Medal. Following World War II, Fall worked as an analyst for the Nuremberg War Crimes Tribunal, in which capacity he investigated Krupp Industries.\n\nFall studied at the University of Paris from 1948 to 1949, and from 1949 to 1950 he attended the University of Munich.\n\nAfter completing his studies in Europe, Fall traveled to the United States in 1950 on a Fulbright Scholarship, where he studied at the University of Maryland for a time. In 1951, Fall enrolled at Syracuse University, where he received a masters degree in political science in 1952. Fall did post-graduate study at the Johns Hopkins School for Advanced International Studies, where he was encouraged to study Indochina. Fall took the idea to heart. \nNot content to study Indochina from afar, Fall traveled to Vietnam in 1953, when the First Indochina War was being waged between the Viet Minh and French Union forces. Due to his French citizenship, Fall was allowed to accompany French soldiers and pilots into enemy territory. From his observations, Fall predicted the French would fail in Vietnam. When the French were defeated in the critical Battle of Dien Bien Phu, Fall claimed the United States was partly responsible for France's loss. Fall believed that the United States had not supported France to a sufficient extent during the First Indochina War.\n\nIn 1954, Fall returned to the United States and married Dorothy Winer. In 1955, he earned a doctorate from Syracuse University and became an assistant professor at American University in Washington, DC.\n\nIn 1956, he began teaching international relations courses at Howard University, also in Washington. Fall became a full professor at Howard in 1962 and taught there intermittently until his death.\n\nNever losing his interest in Indochina, Fall returned to the region five more times (in 1957, 1962, 1965, 1966, and 1967) to study developments firsthand. Fall was given a grant by the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization to study the development of communism in Southeast Asia. He used it to document the rise of communist activity in Laos. Fall was particularly interested in the tensions between North Vietnam and South Vietnam. While teaching at the Royal Institute of Administration in Cambodia in 1962, Fall was invited to interview Ho Chi Minh and Phạm Văn Đồng in Hanoi. Ho Chi Minh told Fall his belief that communism would prevail in South Vietnam in about a decade's time.\n\nFall was a political scientist, but one who had been a soldier and who spoke the soldier's language and lived the soldier's life at the front line. He obtained his data on the war while slogging through the mud of Vietnam with French colonial troops, with American infantry, and with South Vietnamese soldiers. He combined the usual academic analysis of Indochina with a perspective of the war from the soldier's point of view.\n\nFall supported the American military presence in South Vietnam, believing it could stop the country from falling to Communism, but he strongly criticized Ngo Dinh Diem's American-backed regime and the tactics used by the United States military in Vietnam. As the conflict between the American forces and the Communists in Vietnam escalated throughout the 1960s, Fall became increasingly pessimistic about the U.S.'s chances of success. He predicted that if it did not learn from France's mistakes, it too would fail in Vietnam. Fall wrote extensive articles detailing his analysis of the situation in Vietnam, and lectured a great deal about his ideas on the Vietnam War. Fall's research was considered invaluable to many U.S. diplomats and military officials, but his negative opinions were often not taken seriously. By 1964, Fall concluded that the U.S. forces in Vietnam were losing. Fall's dire predictions caught the attention of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), which began to monitor his activities.\n\nMany have noted Fall's accuracy and comprehension in his writing about the Vietnam War. In Colin Powell's 1995 autobiography, \"My American Journey\", he wrote:\n\nNoam Chomsky has called Fall \"the most respected analyst and commentator on the Vietnam War.\"\n\nTowards the end of his life Fall suffered from retroperitoneal fibrosis which resulted in the loss of a kidney and a colon blockage. According to his wife, his condition engendered a sense of fatalism as he departed for what turned out to be his final trip to Vietnam. On 21 February 1967, while accompanying a company of the 1st Battalion 9th Marines on Operation Chinook II in the Street Without Joy, Thừa Thiên Province, Fall stepped on a Bouncing Betty land mine which killed both him and Gunnery Sergeant Byron G. Highland, a U.S. Marine Corps combat photographer. He was dictating notes into a tape recorder, which captured his last words: \"We've reached one of our phase lines after the firefight and it smells bad—meaning it's a little bit suspicious... Could be an amb—\". Fall was survived by his wife and three daughters.\n\nThe medical library at the main civilian hospital in Da Nang was named The Bernard B. Fall Memorial Medical Library in his honor.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189440", "title": "Marendaz", "text": "Marendaz\n\nMarendaz Special cars were made in Brixton Road, London SW9, England from 1926 to 1932 and in Maidenhead, Berkshire, England from 1932 to 1936.\n\nDMK (Donald Marcus Kelway) Marendaz served as an apprentice at Siddeley-Deasy before the first World War. He left to join the Royal Flying Corps in 1916, training as a pilot and serving in France until invalided out in 1918 with the rank of lieutenant. After 1918, he joined Alvis, but was sacked, and shortly afterwards started Marseel with a Mr Seelhaft; the company manufactured gearboxes for the Emscote car. Emscote did not take all the gearboxes they made, so the surplus were used with Coventry-Simplex engines to make complete cars. The company changed its name to Marseal in 1923, when Seelhart left. Between 1920 and 1925, when Marseal failed, as many as 1200 cars might have been made in the Coventry factory.\n\nAfter a brief period in the City of London, in 1926 the 'Captain' started DMK Marendaz Ltd in the premises of the London Cab Company in Brixton, where the London agents for Bugatti and Graham-Paige were also based. The cars were attractive-looking with a Bentley-like radiator and mainly used Anzani engines. Model names were often confusingly complex with the 11/55, 14/55 and 14/125 also being called the -litre. A strange departure was the 1495 cc straight-eight which used a special Anzani crank and Marendaz designed block. Although catalogued in normal and supercharged form, it is thought not to have got past the prototype stage. Although supporting an ambitious racing programme, very few cars were made and it seems that the company's main income derived from tuning and servicing work and the sales of used sporting cars. Somewhere between 20 and 50 cars were made between 1926 and 1932. Captain Marendaz had an aversion to journalists and so exactly what happened in the factory is often a mystery. He was also famous for threatening legal action against anyone who made remarks about his cars he did not agree with.\n\nIn 1932 the company was re-organised as Marendaz Special Cars Ltd and moved to Cornwallis Works, Maidenhead where GWK and Burney cars had also been made. The cars at first used American Continental engines with Marendaz cylinder heads and manifolding but later were probably completely built by Marendaz as he redesigned the block. The gearboxes might also have been Marendaz designed, but some by Moss were used. Sales were again supported by a considerable racing programme including entries by Captain Marendaz himself up to 1931 and his secretary Miss Dorothy Summers up to 1936. They were also raced by Mr and Mrs AE Moss, the parents of Sir Stirling Moss.\n\nProduction seems to have ceased in 1936 but possibly a few cars were made in 1937. Estimates of production range from about 80 to 120 cars in total, including those from Brixton. Survivors from the Brixton days are rare but several 13/70 and 15/80 range still exist.\n\nThe Captain went on to set up Marendaz Aircraft Ltd in 1936 to build aircraft, but produced only prototypes. He was also a supporter of Oswald Mosley, leader of the British Union of Fascists and this led in 1940 to him being jailed on security charges. He was released after a few days. After the war, he emigrated to South Africa where he built small diesel engines. He returned to England in 1972 and died in 1988 at the age of 91.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189441", "title": "Point Lobos", "text": "Point Lobos\n\nPoint Lobos and the Point Lobos State Natural Reserve is the \"crown jewel\" of California's 280 state parks. Australian-born artist landscape artist Francis McComas described the point as the \"greatest meeting of land and water in the world.\" Adjoining Point Lobos is \"one of the richest marine habitats in California.\" The ocean habitat is protected by two marine protected areas, the Point Lobos State Marine Reserve and Point Lobos State Marine Conservation Area. The sea near Point Lobos is considered one the best locations for scuba diving on the Monterey Peninsula and along the California coast.\n\nPoint Lobos is just south of Carmel-by-the-Sea, California, United States, and at the north end of the Big Sur coast of the Pacific Ocean. Point Lobos features a number of hiking trails, many alongside the ocean, and a smaller number of beaches. The historic Whalers Cabin, built by Chinese fishermen and later used by Japanese and Portuguese fishermen, is now a museum. \nPoint Lobos nearly became the site of a town. In 1896, the Carmelo Land and Coal Company subdivided the land into 1,000 lots and named the new town \"Carmelito\". Engineer Alexander Allan purchased the land and over many years bought back the lots that had been sold and erased the subdivision from the county records. , more than one million annual visitors from around the world visited Point Lobos, which is restricted by only 150 on-site parking spaces. The majority of visitors must park on the shoulder of Highway 1 and walk into the reserve. Visitor levels are exceeding the capacity of the Reserve and the state is considering requiring reservations during peak hours.\n\nThe Point Lobos area is geologically unique and contains a rich and diverse plant and animal life both on shore and in the water. Called the \"greatest meeting of land and water in the world\" by Australian-born artist landscape artist Francis McComas, Point Lobos is considered the \"crown jewel\" of the California state park system. The geological history of Point Lobos describes the rocks that create the headlands and inlets that make Point Lobos famous.\n\nThe Carmel submarine canyon lies just north of Point Lobos. Like Monterey Canyon to the north the canyon provides cold, nutrient-rich water to the surface during upwelling events. These nutrient-rich waters fuel the high primary productivity seen in Carmel and Monterey Bays, which in turn support the high diversity of life observed in the water and on land at Point Lobos.\n\nPoint Lobos is one of only two places where the Monterey Cypress are native. The waters around Point Lobos contain extensive kelp forests.\n\nIt is possible for visitors to watch whales off shore during certain portions of the year as they migrate along the coast. Gray, humpback, and blue whales are regular visitors to the area.\n\nThe reserve has several miles of trails. Visitors can view the coastal scenery, explore the coast, and picnic. California's marine protected areas encourage recreational and educational uses of the ocean. The quality of the underwater environment in the adjacent marine protected areas draws a large number of scuba divers. Whaler's Cover is often used by divers to begin their dives. Other activities include kayaking, snorkeling, and diving. The large number of visitors is causing erosion in some places. The Point Lobos Foundation has coordinated volunteer days with the goal of planting hundreds of native species to restore eroded areas. Point Lobos State Natural Reserve is planning to reduce overcrowding by requiring visitors to obtain reservations at peak times.\n\nThe original Point Lobos Ecological Reserve was created in 1973. It has become \"one of the richest marine habitats in California.\" Divers may not take any fish or mollusks within the reserve. The Point Lobos marine protected areas provide shelter to a wide range of fish, invertebrates, birds, and marine mammals, from those that rely on the near-shore kelp forest to those that inhabit the deep waters of the Carmel Submarine Canyon.\n\nIn 2007, the California Department of Fish and Game expanded the ecological reserve and renamed it as the Point Lobos State Marine Reserve and Point Lobos State Marine Conservation Area. A no-take zone was extended from the east side of Monastery Beach to the mouth of MalPaso Creek. They were two of 29 marine protected areas adopted during the first phase of the Marine Life Protection Act Initiative, a collaborative public process to create a statewide network of marine protected areas along the California coastline.\n\nPoint Lobos SMR covers 5.36 square miles. The SMR protects all marine life within its boundaries. Fishing and take of all living marine resources is prohibited.\n\nPoint Lobos SMCA covers 8.83 square miles. Harvest of all living marine resources is prohibited in the conservation area except the recreational and commercial take of salmon, albacore, and the commercial take of spot prawn.\n\nAs specified by the Marine Life Protection Act, select marine protected areas along California's central coast are monitored by scientists to track their effectiveness and learn more about ocean health. Similar studies in marine protected areas located off of the Santa Barbara Channel Islands have already detected gradual improvements in fish size and number.\n\nThe historic Whalers Cabin at Whaler's Cove was constructed in the 1850s to house Chinese and later Japanese fishermen. The Chinese used locally sourced pine and redwood for siding. The floor was originally dirt. The floor joists are supported by six whale vertebrae that rest on granite blocks quarried nearby. Originally, the floor was packed earth. There were originally about 10 cabins around the cove. The cabin may have been used by Portuguese whalers from the Azores, who harpooned whales off the coast and hauled their carcasses onshore at the cove. The Carmel Whaling Company operated from 1862 to 1879. From 1854 to the end of shore-based whaling in about 1900, there were only 16 shore whaling stations in California, with about 300 men involved. When kerosene oil was introduced in about 1880, whale oil became too expensive. Whaling was briefly reintroduced by the Japanese Whaling Company from 1898 to 1900.\n\nWhen the last resident moved out of the cabin in 1983, a park docent suggested turning the cabin into a museum. Improvements added after the Chinese era, like fiberboard walls and ceiling, wiring, and pipes were removed. Docents contacted descendants of the families who lived and worked at the cove to solicit contributions. California state parks exhibit specialists built displays around the artifacts. It is the only building of this era that has been preserved. It houses the Whaling Station Museum dedicated to the cultural history of the point. The museum also highlights the history of Point Lobos, including its cinematic appearances and plans at the turn of the 20th century to develop the area for densely packed suburban housing.\n\nThe Ohlone people harvested shellfish including abalone from the waters around Point Lobos. Evidence has been found of a long-term village named Ichxenta, in a meadow near San Jose Creek adjacent to Point Lobos, that indicates the natives inhabited the area for about 2,500 years. The village meadow is currently known as the Polo Field. There are 19 midden sites within Point Lobos and five sites containing mortar holes used by the natives for grinding acorns and seeds.\n\nIt's likely that Sebastian Viscaino or some of his soldiers, who camped near the mouth of the Carmel River in 1602-03, may have visited the area to the south. Gaspar de Portolà and his exploring party camped at San Jose Creek in October 1769. Sergeant Jose Francisco Ortega conducted a study of the coast south of the Carmel River. In about 1770, Spanish Vaqueros from nearby Carmel Mission ran large herds of cattle in the area near Point Lobos.\n\nIchxenta was likely occupied until near the end of the Carmel Mission era, when the native population was decimated by disease, starvation, overwork, torture, and forced assimilation.\n\nGovernor Juan Alvarado granted Rancho San Jose y Sur Chiquito, two square leagues of land, in 1839 to Marcelino Escobar, Alcalde (or mayor) of Monterey, Alta California. The grant was from the south side of Carmel River, including Point Lobos, south to Palo Colorado Canyon.\n\nTwo of Escobar’s sons, Juan and Agustin, obtained possession of the rancho shortly afterward, and sold it on August 26, 1841 to Doňa Maria Josefa de Abrego, who held power of attorney for her husband José Abrego to buy and sell land. She paid $250, one-half in silver, and one-half in gold, or about three cents per acre.\n\nOwnership of Point Lobos was later complicated by the fact that when Juan and Augustin Escobar sold the rancho to Josefa de Abrego in 1841, they didn't obtain permission from their multiple brothers and sisters. The siblings later contested the sale.\n\nUnder somewhat mysterious circumstances, on January 16, 1843, Maria Abrego deeded the rancho to a group of about 10 soldiers from the Monterey Presidio. Records confirm the soldiers paid nothing, and a legend attached to the transfer says a gambler lost a rancho in a card game. Her husband was known for his gambling habit. On June 7, 1844, the soldiers turned the Rancho over to their superior officer, Colonel José Castro, former Governor Alvarado's brother-in-law.\n\nAfter the Mexican–American War, Mexico ceded California to the United States. The 1848 Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo provided that the land grants would be honored. But the Land Act of 1851 required owners to prove their ownership. Castro filed a claim on February 2, 1853, but grew impatient with the outcome and sold the land in 1854 to Joseph S. Emery and Abner Bassett for $700, leaving to them the legal fight for ownership. The commission denied Castro's claim on August 28, 1855. Castro died in 1860. Emery and Bassett appealed the court's ruling. Bassett died in 1874, leaving his undivided one-half interest to his wife and eight children. Their half of the rancho was appraised at $15,000.\n\nIn 1880, a lawsuit was filed in United States District Court to resolve the conflicting claims of more than two dozen putative property owners and squatters. On June 5, 1882, subject to confirmation of the original claim by Castro, the judges divided Escobar’s original land grant into 34 parcels. Later that year, Castro's original claim was validated by the court. The title was confirmed on December 24, 1885, and President Grover Cleveland signed the land patent on May 4, 1888, 35 years after Castro's initial filing. All of the 34 claims from the 1880 lawsuit were invalidated as a result.\n\nIn 1851 a Chinese sailor, Quock Junk, ran aground at Point Lobos. He was rescued by members of the Ohlone tribe. He was later joined by four or five other Chinese families who built cottages at Whaler's Cove. They became the first commercial fishermen at the point. From 1854-1858, a granite quarry was operated at what was later named Whaler’s Cove. The granite was used to build the Old Monterey Jail, San Francisco Mint, portions of Fort Point, and buildings on the Navy’s installation at Mare Island Naval Shipyard. In 1862, Antonio Victorine, a Portuguese whaler from the Azores, arrived at Point Lobos, following the whale population. About fifty to seventy family members lived at Whaler's Cove. The men spotted whales from Whaler's Knoll and then rowed off shore about in 24-foot boats to harpoon the whales. They towed the whales back to Pt. Lobos to fleece and harvest the blubber. They then towed the carcasses back out to sea.\n\nIn 1874, a seam of low grade bituminous coal was found in upper Malpaso Canyon, southeast of Pt Lobos. On September 6, 1888, shortly after the patent for Rancho San Jose y Sur Chiquito was approved, almost all of the owners banded together to form the Carmelo Land and Coal Company. In exchange for shares in the company, they sold their interest in the land for $1. A mine was dug into the mountain near Malpaso Creek, and the coal was transported on ore carts via a tramway to Coal Chute Point, opposite the Chinese settlement at Whaler's Cove. The deep water allowed the workers to use the chute to deliver the coal directly to coastal steamers.\n\nIn 1890, Emory and Bassett's heirs subdivided Point Lobos into 1,000 parcels. They begin selling lots for $25 to $50 to a new town they initially called Point Lobos City, but later renamed Carmelito. The lack of a bridge across the Carmel River and two national economic recessions during the 1890s combined to severely restrict sales. The outer portion of the point was reserved as the Point Lobos Park.\n\nIn 1897, Alexander MacMillan Allan, a successful engineer from Pennsylvania, was hired to improve the coal mine operation. When he found the coal mine could not produce a profit, he purchased of Point Lobos from the Carmelo Land and Coal Company in 1898. Marine biologist Gennosuke Kodani was already harvesting abalone from the area, a valuable delicacy in Japan. Allan partnered with him to build the Point Lobos Canning Company, which they operated until 1928. Allan decided to move the remainder of his family from Oakland to Point Lobos.\n\nAllan added a sand and gravel mining operation to the Abalone cannery. In 1899 he had a narrow gauge railroad built from nearby San Jose Beach to Coal Chute Point to transport sand for shipment by sea to glass manufacturers in Alameda. Sand mining continued through 1954. Allan established the Point Lobos Dairy at the mouth of San Jose Creek which was operated from 1903 until 1954. He also became a successful race track architect and built the Santa Anita, Tanforan and Bay Meadows race tracks. One member of the family sold a portion they inherited to form the Carmel Meadows subdivision.\n\nIn 1899, Allan and his wife Satie, who grew to appreciate the natural beauty of the point, were concerned about the increasing number of visitors. People had been visiting the point for many years to see the rare Monterey Cypress trees and enjoy the scenic coastline. The Allan family put up toll gates, prohibited camping, and charged visitors 50 cents a vehicle (about $10 today) to enter the point. Allan bought many of the residential lots that had been subdivided and later got the entire subdivision removed from the county record.\n\nScientists reported to the government that the Carmel area including Point Lobos was the \"most picturesque spot on the Pacific Coast.\" In 1925, Point Lobos figured prominently in discussions for inclusion in the new state park system. Members of the Sierra Club and the Save the Redwoods League discussed preserving Point Lobos and Cypress Point as national parks or reserves. Duncan McDuffie of the Save the Redwoods League hired the internationally known landscape architect Frederick Law Olmsted to research Point Lobos and report on the areas most noteworthy of preservation. Olmstead's report described Point Lobos as \"the most outstanding example on the coast of California of picturesque rock and surf scenery in combination with unique vegetation, including typical Monterey cypress.\" Point Lobos gained the attention of the newly established California State Park system, who considered taking the land using eminent domain. Allan initially resisted the idea of making the land a public park. The family persuaded the state to wait until Allan died.\n\nOn February 8, 1933, three years after Allan’s death, the Allan family sold to the State of California for $631,000 (). The state promptly set about erasing evidence of human intrusion on the land, removing man-made structures like the abalone cannery, the railroad used to haul sand, and a number of homes and shacks, excepting a single Whalers Cabin. The Allan family donated an additional to the state of cypress-covered headlands at the western tip of the point as a memorial grove to Alexander and Satie Morgan Allan. The state added another later on, expanding the reserve to almost .\n\nAt the beginning of World War II, a U.S. Army Coastal Defense Squad used the Whalers Cabin at Whaler's Cove for its headquarters. From 1942 to 1944, the cove was the site of a 4th Air Force Long-Range Radar site. Tents were set up to accommodate 90 men below Rat Hill. In July and August 1943, the U.S. Army established a training school for the 543rd Engineer Boat and Shore Regiment, 3rd Engineer Special Brigade, at Whaler's Cove at Point Lobos. The unit found that the cove was an ideal harbor for anchoring and maintaining their boats. The unit was later involved in 62 landings in the southwest Pacific.\n\nThe Allan family retained the land to the east of Highway 1. Eunice Allan Riley, one of Alexander's three daughters, repurchased the last subdivided lots in the 1950s. In 1960, underwater acres were added as the first marine reserve in the United States. The marine reserve was designated an ecological reserve in 1973, and in 1992, was added to the Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary, the largest in the nation.\n\nA large number of movies have been made in or around Point Lobos.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189448", "title": "Midlothian and Peebles Northern (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Midlothian and Peebles Northern (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nMidlothian and Peebles Northern was a county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom from 1918 until 1950. Along with Peebles and Southern, it was formed by dividing the old Midlothian constituency.\n\nFrom 1918 the constituency consisted of \"The Calder and Suburban County Districts, the burgh of Dalkeith, and that part of the Lasswade County District which is included in the extra-burghal portions of the parishes of Dalkeith and Inveresk.\"\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2189459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189459", "title": "Revelations Entertainment", "text": "Revelations Entertainment\n\nRevelations Entertainment is an independent movie production company founded by actor Morgan Freeman and Lori McCreary in 1996 with a mission to \"reveal truth.\" The company is known for producing thought-provoking entertainment that has artistic integrity and soul. \n\nIn 2006, Revelations became the first film production company in history to distribute a film (\"10 Items or Less\") online while the movie was still playing in theaters. This was achieved by using ClickStar (also founded by Freeman and McCreary as a joint venture with Intel Corporation) as their online distribution site.\n\nRevelations Entertainment is behind several well-known movie and TV productions, including:\n\nThese productions have involved established actors such as Monica Bellucci, Kirsten Dunst, Danny Glover, Gene Hackman, Holly Hunter, Thomas Jane, Paz Vega, Zina Pistor and Billy Bob Thornton.\n\nIn 2009 Revelations Entertainment signed on to financially back Digiboo, a digital Kiosk company. Digiboo's touch-screen kiosks can hold more than 1,000 movie and TV shows, which can be downloaded to USB 3.0 flash devices within a minute. Revelations Digital CEO Samuel Edge will serve as the chief technology officer at Digiboo.\n\nThe ClickStar online movie service, a joint venture between production company Revelations Entertainment and chip-maker Intel Corporation, stopped operations in 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189462", "title": "Matsukura Katsuie", "text": "Matsukura Katsuie\n\nAlthough the rebellion was successfully put down, his status and domain were stripped away for misruling in May 1638. After a dead peasant's body was found inside his residence, Katsuie was sent to Edo for further investigation by the government. He was beheaded in August 28, 1638, for his misruling and brutality. He was the only daimyo to be beheaded during the Edo period, rather than allowed the honourable suicide of seppuku, which suggests the severity of his misbehaviour.\n"}
{"id": "2189477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189477", "title": "RWD 1", "text": "RWD 1\n\nThe RWD 1 was a Polish sports plane of 1928, a single-engine high-wing monoplane constructed by the RWD design team.\n\nThe RWD 1 was the first aircraft constructed by the RWD team of Stanisław Rogalski, Stanisław Wigura and Jerzy Drzewiecki in the Aviation Section of Mechanic Students' Club of Warsaw University of Technology. It was designed in late 1927. The plane was built with a financial help of the LOPP organization. One prototype was built for static trials, and one flying prototype (registration SP-ACC), completed and flown by the designer Jerzy Drzewiecki in September 1928.\n\nIts unusual feature was a unique, fish-shaped fuselage, similar to early Messerschmitt's designs (M17). Two crewmen sat in tandem inside the fuselage and had only side openings in its upper part. In front of the pilot's head there was an upper part of the fuselage, supporting wings, limiting his view forward, though its profile was thin. This shape was repeated in following RWD designs. The aircraft was evaluated as a quite good design, with an original construction. It had high glide ratio of 12, and its payload was bigger than its empty weight. It was not built in any quantities, but gave a basis to further more successful RWD designs: RWD 2, RWD 3, RWD 4, RWD 7, and, partly RWD 5.\n\nThe prototype took part in the 2nd Polish Light Aircraft Contest in 1928, but did not complete it due to engine breakdown. In 1929 it undertook a raid around Poland. It was scrapped in winter of 1929/1930.\n\nWooden construction single-engine high-wing cantilever monoplane, conventional in layout. The fuselage rectangular in cross-section, narrowing in upper part, plywood covered. Single-spar one-part trapezoid wings, covered with canvas and plywood in front. Cantilever empennage, covered with plywood (stabilizers) and canvas (rudder and elevators). The crew of two sat in tandem. The crew cockpits were open on the sides in upper part, and had individual doors (first cockpit on the right, second one on the left). A 2-cylinder air-cooled 40 hp ABC Scorpion II boxer engine (34 hp nominal power) was in front, driving two-blade wooden propeller Szomański (1.5 m diameter). Conventional fixed landing gear, sprung with a rubber rope, with a rear skid. Fuel tank in fuselage front (fuel consumption 9 l/h).\n\n"}
{"id": "2189485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189485", "title": "C. Kyle Ranson", "text": "C. Kyle Ranson\n\nKyle C. Ranson is an American businessman who served as the President and CEO of InFocus from August 2004 to May 2007. At the time, InFocus was headquartered in Wilsonville, Oregon. Kyle was originally hired as the Executive Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Marketing in April 2003, and previously held the same title at Compaq/Hewlett Packard. Ranson also held positions at Newberry Data and Vickers Defense.\n\nRanson gained experience with projectors at his position with Compaq, where he helped the company get into the projector market. Ranson was hired by InFocus to concentrate more on product marketing in the digital projector market, instead of previous emphasis on innovation. At the time, company Chairman John Harker expressed the hope that Ranson's international experience and market understanding would help drive the company back to profitability.\n\nIn August 2004, InFocus announced that Ranson (currently serving as President and Chief Operation Officer) would be the next CEO and a member of the board of directors, replacing John Harker who had led the company since 1992. Harker would continue in the role of Chairman.\n\nOn May 16, 2007, InFocus announced that Ranson would be leaving the company to pursue other interests. Ranson also resigned from the company's Board of Directors.\n\nIn 2008 Ranson invested in Showers Pass, a company founded by Dave Morrow in 1997 and purchased by Ed Dalton in 2005, becoming co-president. Ranson had met Dalton on a cycling tour of Oregon. In 2012 Dalton sold out to Ranson. The company is headquartered in Portland, Oregon with Ranson as the CEO. In May 2013 the company also established a United Kingdom office, with Ranson's brother Fraser Ranson joining the company as head of UK operations.\n\nKyle was born in Newcastle, England and graduated from Brunel University in 1985 with a BA Design and Technology.\n\nKyle Ranson has been a trustee of the Oregon chapter of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society and has taken part in fundraising bike rides with Bikes MS150. In 2015 the National Multiple Sclerosis Society announced that Showers Pass would provide an annual sponsorship to improve life for those suffering from MS and contribute to the search for a cure.\n"}
{"id": "2189491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189491", "title": "Words from the Genius", "text": "Words from the Genius\n\nWords from the Genius is the debut studio album by the American rapper GZA, under his previous stage name \"The Genius\". The album never charted, and GZA went on to co-found the Wu-Tang Clan in 1992 after the album's failure. \n\nIt was released on February 19, 1991. It is significant as one of the only albums released by a Wu-Tang Clan member before the founding of the group in late 1992 and only one of two pre- Wu-Tang clan releases any of the members recorded with a major label (the other is \"Ooh, I Love You, Rakeem\" EP by Prince Rakeem (RZA).\n\nIt was re-released in 1994, with the song \"Come Do Me\" replaced by \"Pass the Bone.\" Both versions are now out of print. In 2006, an expanded version was released by Traffic Entertainment Group, the owner of the bulk of the Cold Chillin' Records catalog.\n\n\"I was signed to Cold Chillin' 'bout five years ago,\" GZA recalled in 1995. \"They put out an album but didn't promote it. They tried to put it out again last year after everything happened with the Clan, put a '94 date on it, but still didn't put any money behind it, so it didn't sell twice. I'm still proud of it, though. The beats ain't all that but, lyrically, shit was bangin'. So it wasn't all peaches and cream, but I was determined to break through. 'A quitter never wins, and a winner never quits.'\"\n"}
{"id": "2189492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189492", "title": "2005 in the United Kingdom", "text": "2005 in the United Kingdom\n\nEvents from the year 2005 in the United Kingdom.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189497", "title": "Adolf Glassbrenner", "text": "Adolf Glassbrenner\n\nAdolf Glassbrenner (27 March 1810, in Berlin25 September 1876) was a German humorist and satirist, considered part of the Young Germany Movement.\n\nGlassbrenner was born in Berlin. After working for a short time in a merchant's office, he turned to journalism, and in 1831 edited \"Don Quixote\", a periodical which was suppressed in 1833 owing to its revolutionary tendencies. He next, under the pseudonym Adolf Brennglas, published a series of pictures of Berlin life, under the titles \"Berlin wie es ist und trinkt\" (thirty parts, with illustrations, 1833–1849), and \"Buntes Berlin\" (fourteen parts, with illustrations, Berlin, 1837–1858), and thus became the founder of a popular satirical literature associated with modern Berlin. In 1840 he married the actress Adele Peroni (1813–1895), and removed in the following year to Neustrelitz, where his wife had obtained an engagement at the Grand Ducal theatre. In 1848 Glassbrenner entered the political arena and became the leader of the democratic party in Mecklenburg-Strelitz. Expelled from that country in 1850, he settled in Hamburg, where he remained until 1858; and then he became editor of the \"Montagszeitung Berlin\", where he died in 1876. His grave is preserved in the Protestant \"Friedhof III der Jerusalems- und Neuen Kirchengemeinde\" (Cemetery No. III of the congregations of Jerusalem's Church and New Church) in Berlin-Kreuzberg, south of Hallesches Tor.\n\nAmong Glassbrenner's other humorous and satirical writings may be mentioned:\n"}
{"id": "2189505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189505", "title": "Metro-2", "text": "Metro-2\n\nMetro-2 () is the informal name for a purported secret underground metro system which parallels the public Moscow Metro (known as Metro-1 when in comparison with Metro-2). The system was supposedly built, or at least started, during the time of Joseph Stalin and was codenamed D-6 (Д-6) by the KGB. It is supposedly still operated by the Main Directorate of Special Programmes and Ministry of Defence.\n\nThe length of Metro-2 is rumored to exceed that of the public Metro. It is said to have four lines, and to lie 50–200 meters (165-660 ft) deep. It is said to connect the Kremlin with the Federal Security Service (FSB) headquarters, the government airport at Vnukovo-2, and an underground town at Ramenki, in addition to other locations of national importance.\n\nIn 1994, the leader of an urban exploration group, the Diggers of the Underground Planet, claimed to have found an entrance to this underground system.\n\nIn the summer of 1992, the literary and journalistic magazine \"Yunost\" ('Юность') published a novel by the author and screenwriter Vladimir Gonik entitled \"Preispodniaia\" ('Преисподняя') (English: \"Abyss\"), set in an underground bunker in Moscow. Earlier, in the spring of that year, excerpts from the novel had been published in the weekly newspaper \"Sovershenno sekretno\" . In an interview with both the newspaper's editor and Gonik in 1993, the author stated that the term \"Metro-2\" had been introduced to them, and that the novel had been written based on information collected over the previous 20 years by the two of them on things such as secret bunkers and the underground railways connecting them. Gonik admitted that he had worked on the book between 1973 and 1986, and that some of the more sensitive information had been purposefully misrepresented.\n\nIn later years, Gonik has argued that the bunkers, and therefore the so-called \"Metro-2\", had been for use by the leadership of the Politburo and the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU), along with their families, in case of war. According to him, in the early 1970s the General Secretary of the CPSU, Leonid Brezhnev, personally visited the main bunker, and, in 1974, awarded the Chairman of the KGB at the time, Yuri Andropov, the Gold Star Medal of the Hero of Socialist Labour. Apparently, each member of the Central Committee had a apartment, with a study, lounge, kitchen and bathroom. Gonik claims to have gathered this information working as a doctor in the polyclinic of the Ministry of Defence.\n\nAfter the publication of the novel in 1992, the subject of a second, secret, underground railway has been raised many times, especially in the Russian media. In particular, the magazine \"Ogoniok\" has referred to a \"Metro-2\" several times.\n\nRussian journalists have reported that the existence of Metro-2 is neither confirmed nor denied by the FSB or the Moscow Metro administration. However, listed below is evidence for the Metro-2's existence.\n\nIn 1991, the United States Department of Defense published a report entitled \"Military forces in transition\", which devoted several pages to a secret government underground in Moscow. It also included a diagram of the system superimposed on a map of the city.\n\"The Soviets have constructed deep-underground both in urban Moscow and outside the city. These facilities are interconnected by a network of deep interconnected subway lines that provide a quick and secure means of evacuation for the leadership. The leadership can move from their peacetime offices through concealed entryways in protective quarters beneath the city. There are important deep-underground command posts in the Moscow area, one located at the Kremlin. Soviet press has noted the presence of an enormous underground leadership bunker adjacent to Moscow State University. These facilities are intended for the national command authority in wartime. They are estimated to be between and deep, and can accommodate an estimated 10,000 people. A special subway line runs from some points in Moscow and possibly to the VIP terminal at Vnukovo Airfield(...)\"\n\n—Military forces in transition, 1991, p. 40\n\nIn 1992, in an interview with \"Time\", Deputy Director Broadcaster Igor Malashenko spoke about the existence of Sofrino-2, about to the north-east of Moscow's television broadcasting centers, built at great depths in case of nuclear war. According to Malashenko, the equipment was unusable due to age. He went on to say that the same fate befell many of the underground bomb shelters, and in particular a system of underground bunkers beneath the building of Moscow State University, which he said were flooded and had deteriorated.\n\nIn 2004, former advisor of Soviet president Mikhail Gorbachev, former Russian president Boris Yeltsin and then president Vladimir Putin, Vladimir Shevchenko confirmed the existence of a secret in the Moscow Metro.\n\"Reports on the number of underground communications are greatly exaggerated. In the days of Stalin, who was very afraid of assassination attempts, there was in fact a single-track underground railway line running from the Kremlin to his so-called \"Nearby Dacha\" in Volynskoye. Today, neither the Dacha nor the subway line are in use. In addition, there were underground transport links between the General Staff and several other government facilities. In 1991 \na pneumatic mail tube was constructed between the CPSU Central Committee building in Moscow's Old Square and the Kremlin.\"\n\nIn 2008, Shevchenko once again touched upon the Metro-2.\n\"Currently, the Kremlin subway cannot be called a transportation artery, and, as far as I know, for its continued operation it required major repairs: for among other things there are a lot of underground utilities which will eventually decay.\"\n\nIn 2008, Mikhail Poltoranin , a minister under Boris Yeltsin in the early 1990s, explained\n\"This is an extensive network of tunnels and an emergency command center in case of war, where you can command the nuclear forces of the country. It can hide a lot of people - its maintenance was necessary. I know that the \"Metro-2\" has branches that go to the suburbs so that the command could move away from the epicenter of a nuclear attack.\"\n\nWhen ex-chief of the Moscow Metro Dmitry Gayev was questioned on the existence of the Metro-2, he responded:\n\"I would be surprised if it did not exist.\"\nIn the same year, in an interview with \"Izvestia\", he said:\n\"There is a lot of talk about the existence of secret transport tunnels. I will not deny anything. I would be surprised if they did not exist. You ask: Can we use them to transport passengers? It is not for me to decide, but for those organizations who own the railways. I do not exclude such a possibility.\"\n\nIn 2008, in an interview in \"Argumenty i Fakty\", the head of the Moscow Metro independent trade union, Svetlana Razina, admitted:\n\"Several years ago, among the drivers of the Izmailovo depot there was a recruiting for a service on secret routes, and although there were many willing, they were to select only one. Entering the midst of these tunnels is only for people with special clearance. Most often, these branches used very short trains, consisting of battery-electric locomotive and one passenger car.\"\n\nAs stated in a report of ITAR-TASS in 2007:\n\"Line of the Metro-2 has long been in the KGB office, and subsequently came under the wing of the FSB.\"\n\nFormer head of Moscow's central administrative district and onetime information minister Alexander Muzykantskiy stated:\n\"Its underground transport communications connecting the Kremlin with the command posts, which are designed to ensure the stable operation of the senior military and political leadership in times of armed conflict, including a nuclear conflict. This is a gigantic system. It was built for 40 years. It cost a huge amount of money. For 91 years, the very existence of this system was the highest state secret.\"\n\nOleg Gordievsky, a former colonel of the KGB who worked for the British Secret Intelligence Service (MI6) for 11 years and defected in 1985, in an interview with \"Argumenty i Fakty\" called \"The supreme secret of the KGB, which has not been disclosed until now\" stated\n\"You still do not know the main KGB secret yet: a huge underground city, a whole communications network of such facilities. But they will not show you; they will never, of course.\"\n\nIn 2006, the Museum of the Cold War was opened to the public, located in the old Tagansky Protected Command Point at a depth of . Initially it was a defence bunker (GO-42 or RFQ \"Tagan\"), yet its depth is significantly higher than that purported of the Metro-2 lines, and so it could not have been part of the Metro-2 system.\n\nIn south-west Moscow, near the Ramenki District, there is a vacant lot to the south-west of the main building of Moscow State University. A complex of buildings of the research base of Association \"Science\" (NEBO \"Nauka\"), built to a depth of between and 200 m, is the largest underground bunker in Moscow. According to the same source, it is connected with other secret underground facilities, and appears to be able to house up to 15,000 people. A complex of surface buildings was built by architect Eugene Rozanov in 1975 by orders of Glavspetsstroy.\n\nOne of the first times the facility was mentioned was in \"Time\" in 1992. Its article refers to a journalist named \"KGB officer\", who claims he took part in the construction of a large underground facility in Ramenki. It was claimed construction began in the mid-1960s and was complete by mid-1970. The facility was named by the journalist as the \"Underground City\", which was supposedly intended to give refuge to 15,000 people for 30 years in the event of a nuclear attack on Moscow.\n\nIn the media, the \"Underground City\" is often referred to as \"Ramenki-43\", due to that being the address of one of the supposed entrances to the facility. Ostensibly, the address is home to Militarized Rescue Squad 21 and the 1st Paramilitary Rescue Squad.\n\nThe video game \"Metro 2033\" features the underground city and secret metro.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189510", "title": "Mahi people", "text": "Mahi people\n\nThe Mahi are a people of Benin. They live north of Abomey, from the Togo border on the west to the Zou River on the east, and south to Cové between the Zou and Ouemé rivers, north of the Dassa hills.\n\nThe Mahi established their own kingdom before 1800 years ago, and were a target of the Slave trade before French colonization at the end of the 19th century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189511", "title": "The Definitive Ol' Dirty Bastard Story", "text": "The Definitive Ol' Dirty Bastard Story\n\nThe Definitive Ol' Dirty Bastard Story is a \"best of\" album by Ol' Dirty Bastard\n\n\nBonus DVD contains:\n\n"}
{"id": "2189512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189512", "title": "Midlothian and Peebles (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Midlothian and Peebles (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nMidlothian and Peebles was a short-lived county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom from 1950 until 1955. It was formed by a merger of parts of the old Midlothian and Peebles Northern and Peebles and Southern constituencies. It was reunited in 1955 to form Midlothian.\n\nFor its short existence, Midlothian and Peebles covered the counties of Midlothian and Peebles inclusive of all the burghs situated therein except the county of the city of Edinburgh and the burgh of Musselburgh.\n"}
{"id": "2189518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189518", "title": "Visva-Bharati University", "text": "Visva-Bharati University\n\nVisva-Bharati University () is a public research central university and an Institution of National Importance located in Santiniketan, West Bengal, India. It was founded by Rabindranath Tagore who called it \"Visva-Bharati\", which means the communion of the world with India. Until independence it was a college. Soon after independence, in 1951, the institution was given the status of a university and was renamed Visva-Bharati University.\n\n\"The Hindu\" writes, \"Santiniketan in many ways is still quite different compared to other universities in the country. Located at Bolpur in Birbhum district of West Bengal, the university still has the rural trappings that Tagore dreamt of. The classes are still held in the open under the shade of huge mango trees and students and tutors alike still travel by cycles to keep pollution at bay. The old buildings, even those that were made up of mud walls and thatched roofs, are still intact and find a place within the main campus. While some are preserved for historical value, others are functional in all aspects. While for tourists the place could only be place for sight-seeing, the studious and the academically-inclined can easily feel the scholastic vibrations. Many, especially the Bengalis, have deep reverence for the place and take the visit as a pilgrimage to pay their respects to Tagore. Almost every festival, be it the local ‘ Poush mela' or the more universal ‘Raksha Bandhan' or ‘Holi,' is celebrated in its originality by the students, locals and staff on the campus... Tagore visualised it as a ‘seat of learning', and his vision was taken forward by Gandhiji and Jawaharlal Nehru. Both played a stellar role in its becoming a Central University in 1951.\"\n\nThe origins of this university date back to 1863 when Debendranath Tagore was given a tract of land by the zamindar of Raipur, and he set up an \"ashram\" at the spot that has now come to be called \"chatim tala\" at the heart of the town. The ashram was initially called Brahmacharya Ashram, which was later renamed Brahmacharya Vidyalaya. It was established with a view to encouraging people from all walks of life to come to the spot and meditate. In 1901 his youngest son Rabindranath Tagore established a co-educational school inside the premises of the ashram.\n\nFrom 1901 onwards, Tagore used the ashram to organise the Hindu Mela, which soon became a centre of nationalist activity. Through the early twentieth century the zamindars of Surul (Sarkar Family), another neighbouring village, a few minutes by cycle from the Uttarayan Complex, and the zamindars of Taltore, a village just north of the university town, continued to sell their lands and other properties to the ashram and the college that was being built on this spot. The entire neighbourhood of Purbapalli belonged to the former zamindars of Taltore.\nRabindranath Tagore believed in open air education and had reservations about any teaching done within four walls. This was due to his belief that walls represent conditioning of mind. Tagore did not have a good opinion about the Western method of education introduced by the British in India; on this subject, Tagore and Gandhiji's opinion matched. Tagore once said, \"I do not remember what I was taught, I only remember what I learnt.\"\nTagore's idea on education was that every person is genius and that all students may not bloom at the same time. So he devised a new system of learning in Visva-Bharati. He allowed students to continue their course till the student and his teacher both are satisfied.\n\nAt Visva-Bharati University, if a course demanded by a student is not available, then the university will design a course and bring teachers for that course. The university would not be bothered by the consideration of whether there is a demand for the course.\n\nThe high officials of the university include the \"paridarshaka\" (visitor), \"acharya\" (chancellor), and the \"upacharya\" (vice chancellor). The paridarshaka of this university is the president of India, while the acharya is the prime minister. The university is run by its \"Karma Samity\" (Executive Council) which is chaired by the acharya. The institutes and departments are located in both Santiniketan and Sriniketan.\n\nVisva-Bharati University offers various courses in higher studies like Pre-degree(10+2 level), Under Graduate, Post Graduate, Ph.D., etc. In order to take admission in this university, every student need to go through the process properly.\nApplications can be done online.\n\nThe university is divided into institutes, centres, departments and schools. The respective departments are included in the institutes. The university's programmes dealing with its rich cultural heritage, as well as art and dance education, are funded by the Department of Science and Technology (DST), Government of India.\n\n\n\nThe National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) ranked Visva-Bharati University 48 overall in India and 31 among universities in India. According to Best Global Universities 2020 ranking produced by U.S. News & World Report, Visva- Bharati ranked 4th among Indian universities.\n\nVisva-Bharati Library was established in 1901, at the time of foundation of the Brahmacharya Asrama at Santiniketan by Rabindranath Tagore. Presently, Visva-Bharati Library System has a Central Library, 12 Sectional libraries attached with Cheena-Bhavana, Siksha-Bhavana, Patha-Bhavana, Darshan Sadan, Hindi-Bhavana, Sangit-Bhavana, Palli Sangathan Vibhaga, Vinaya-Bhavana, Rabindra-Bhavana, Palli Siksha Bhavana, Kala-Bhavana and Siksha-Satra. Moreover, around 30 Seminar Libraries are in operation attached to different departments. \nVisva-Bharati library contains old and rare documents, which include multi-lingual and multi-discipline books, reports, manuscripts, etc. The library also has a number of important collections; mention may be made of the collections of Rabindranath Tagore, Prabodh Chandra.\n\nThe university has two guest houses: Ratan Palli (named after the eminent early twentieth century industrialist and scion of Tata family, Sir Ratan Tata) and Purba Palli.\n\nThe twin towns of Santiniketan and Sriniketan are surrounded by Bolpur to the north, Kheya to the south, Surul to the east and Prantik to the west. The towns and the university are not far from the river Kopai which flows to the south.\n\nThis university is especially famous for its cultural festivals:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189519", "title": "Mike Henry (American football)", "text": "Mike Henry (American football)\n\nMichael Dennis Henry (born August 15, 1936) is an American retired actor and former NFL football linebacker. He is most well known for his role as Tarzan in the 1960s trilogy.\n\nMichael Henry's football career as a linebacker for the Pittsburgh Steelers (1958–1961) and the Los Angeles Rams (1962–1964) led him to be noticed by Warner Bros.\n\nHenry's most prominent role was as Tarzan in three 1960s movies \"Tarzan and the Valley of Gold\" (1966), \"Tarzan and the Great River\" (1967), and \"Tarzan and the Jungle Boy\" (1968) that were all filmed back-to-back in 1965. At the time, critics said the dark-haired, square-jawed, muscular Henry resembled classic illustrations of the apeman more than any other actor who had taken on the role. Henry turned down the lead of the subsequent \"Tarzan\" television series, which then went to Ron Ely. \n\nHenry is probably best known to movie audiences for playing Jackie Gleason's character's dim-witted son \"Junior\" in the highly popular \"Smokey and the Bandit\" comedies, starring Burt Reynolds and Sally Field.\n\nHenry portrayed a corrupt prison guard in \"The Longest Yard\" (1974). Henry played Sergeant Kowalski in \"The Green Berets\" (1968), Luke Santee in \"More Dead Than Alive\" (1968), and corrupt Sheriff \"Blue Tom\" Hendricks in \"Rio Lobo\" (1970). He also acted with Charlton Heston in three films: the football movie \"Number One\" (1969), \"Skyjacked\" (1972), and \"Soylent Green\" (1973). \n\nHenry played Lt. Col. Donald Penobscot in an episode of the television series \"M*A*S*H\". In another football-oriented role, he portrayed Tatashore, one of the members of the gang who kidnap Larry Bronco (Larry Csonka) in the \"One of Our Running Backs Is Missing\" episode of \"The Six Million Dollar Man.\"\n\nMike Henry married Penny Marshall 1963 to 1967. Henry also married Cheryl Ivy Sweeney on November 17, 1984.\nAfter being diagnosed with Parkinson's disease, he retired from acting in 1988.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189529", "title": "Western Latin character sets (computing)", "text": "Western Latin character sets (computing)\n\nSeveral binary representations of 8-bit character sets for common Western European languages are compared in this article. These encodings were designed for representation of Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, French, German, Dutch, English, Danish, Swedish, Norwegian, and Icelandic, which use the Latin alphabet, a few additional letters and ones with precomposed diacritics, some punctuation, and various symbols (including some Greek letters). Although they're called \"Western European\" many of these languages are spoken all over the world. Also, these character sets happen to support many other languages such as Malay, Swahili, and Classical Latin. \n\n\"This material is technically obsolete, having been functionally replaced by Unicode. However it continues to have historical interest.\"\n\nThe ISO-8859 series of 8-bit character sets encodes all Latin character sets used in Europe, albeit that the same code points have multiple uses that caused some difficulty (including mojibake, or garbled characters, and communication issues). The arrival of Unicode, with a unique code point for every glyph, resolved these issues.\n\n\nThe earlier seven-bit U.S. American Standard Code for Information Interchange ('ASCII') encoding has characters sufficient to properly represent only a few languages such as English, Latin, Malay and Swahili. It is missing some letters and letter-diacritic combinations used in other Latin-alphabet languages. However, since there was no other choice on most US-supplied computer platforms, use of ASCII was unavoidable except where there was a strong national computing industry. There was the ISO 646 group of encodings which replaced some of the symbols in ASCII with local characters, but space was very limited, and some of the symbols replaced were quite common in things like programming languages. \n\nMost computers internally used eight-bit bytes but communication (seen as inherently unreliable) used seven data bits plus one parity bit. In time, it became common to use all eight bits for data, creating space for another 128 characters. In the early days most of these were system specific, but gradually the ISO/IEC 8859 standards emerged to provide some cross-platform similarity to enable information interchange..\n\nTowards the end of the 20th century, as storage and memory costs fell, the issues associated with multiple meanings of a given eight-bit code (there are seven ISO-Latin code sets alone) have ceased to be justified. All major operating systems have moved to Unicode as their main internal representation. However, as Windows did not support the UTF-8 method of encoding Unicode (preferring UTF-16), many applications continued to be restricted to these legacy character sets.\n\nThe euro and its euro sign introduced significant pressure to support the euro sign (€), and most 8-bit character sets had to be adapted in some way.\n\nAll of these issues have been resolved as operating systems have been upgraded to support Unicode as standard, which encodes the euro sign at U+20AC (decimal 8364).\n\nCode points to U+007F are not shown in this table currently, as they are directly mapped in all character sets listed here. The ASCII coding standard defines the original specification for the mapping of the first 0-127 characters.\n\nThe table is arranged by Unicode code point. Character sets are referred to here by their IANA names in upper case.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189530", "title": "Undercover Teacher", "text": "Undercover Teacher\n\nUndercover Teacher is a documentary in the Dispatches series for Channel 4, in which Alex Dolan, a journalist and science teacher, went undercover for six months as a supply teacher in British schools. \"Undercover Teacher\" was intended to expose the poor behaviour of children in some areas of the secondary education system by secretly filming classes.\n\nDolan was suspended from teaching for one year by the General Teaching Council because she 'breached student trust'. The decision has received criticism from both teachers and commentators.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189541", "title": "Orders, decorations, and medals of the Canadian provinces", "text": "Orders, decorations, and medals of the Canadian provinces\n\nThe Orders, decorations, and medals of the Canadian provinces, in which each province of Canada has devised a system of orders and awards to honour residents for actions or deeds that benefit their local community or province, are in turn subsumed within the Canadian honours system. Each province sets their own rules and criteria on eligibility and also how each medal is awarded and presented. Most of the orders allow for the recipient to wear their orders in public, and most grant the recipients the use of post-nominal letters in their names.\n\nBritish Columbia was the first to establish an honour that was distinct to the province: the Dogwood Medallion, created for the centennial of the Province and its preceding Colony of British Columbia in 1957, and reformed into the Order of the Dogwood in 1966. After the establishment of the Canadian honours system in 1967, the rest of the provinces, recognizing the Crown's distinct operation within each provincial jurisdiction, moved to establish their own honours after Ottawa declined to do so on their behalf. Ontario was the first, creating the Ontario Medal for Good Citizenship in 1973, and the Police and Firefighter's Bravery Medals in 1975 and 1976, respectively. Alberta followed with the Alberta Order of Excellence in 1979. Quebec was the first province to establish a true order: \"l'Ordre national du Quebec\" in 1984. The Saskatchewan Order of Merit was established in 1985. The Order of Ontario came in 1986, the Order of British Columbia in 1989 (which replaced the Order of the Dogwood), the Order of Prince Edward Island in 1997, the Order of Manitoba in 1999, and the Order of Nova Scotia, of New Brunswick, and of Newfoundland and Labrador in 2001. However, the federal government did not recognize these honours and decorations, fearing duplications and citing the fact that, aside from the Order of Newfoundland and Labrador, the Queen had not authorized them. The provinces responded by stating that since provincial ministers did not constitutionally have the right to advise the sovereign directly, they would do so via legislation under the prerogative of the provincial Crown. The federal government finally came to recognize provincial orders after a compromise was reached between Governor General Ray Hnatyshyn and Lieutenant Governor of Saskatchewan Sylvia Fedoruk, wherein provincial honours established by legislation or order in council would be ranked below all national honours, but above national decorations.\n\nIn all provinces except Quebec the provincial honours are presented by the relevant Lieutenant Governor. The territorial honours are presented by their respective Commissioner.\n\nMost provincial orders only have one grade, or level, which is membership. The only province that has a multi-level order system is Quebec: the National Order of Quebec has three grades (in descending order of grade): Grand Officer (GOQ), Officer (OQ), and Knight (CQ).\n\nThe Canadian Forces has listed the following orders to be worn in the following manner: National Order of Quebec, Saskatchewan Order of Merit, Order of Ontario, Order of British Columbia, Alberta Order of Excellence, Order of Prince Edward Island, Order of Manitoba, Order of New Brunswick, Order of Nova Scotia and the Order of Newfoundland and Labrador. However, the CF has stated that while this is the order of sequence on a ribbon bar, it is unlikely or even impossible that a member will receive a medal or an order from all Canadian provinces.\n\nVarious people who have been awarded provincial orders have been presented with national decorations and orders, such as the Order of Canada. An example of this would be Gordon Lightfoot being awarded the Order of Ontario. Lightfoot is also a Companion of the Order of Canada. Each province has a limit on how many can be awarded with their order per year: Ontario places no limit on the number that can be distributed (although it is usually around 25), Alberta and Saskatchewan are limited to 10 inductees each year, and the territories limit theirs to 3 per year.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189542", "title": "Sinn Bodhi", "text": "Sinn Bodhi\n\nNicholas Cvjetkovich (, \"Nikolas Cvjetković\"; born August 29, 1973) is a Serbo-Canadian professional wrestler, best known for his stint in World Wrestling Entertainment, where he worked on its SmackDown brand as Kizarny. He currently works the independents as Sinn Bodhi.\n\nCvjetkovich was trained as a wrestler by Rob Fuego and Ron Hutchison in Orangeville, Ontario and also trained for (and later earned) his black belt at Alex Atkinson's Black Belt Institute. His debut match was in 2000 against El Fuego during the Apocalypse Wrestling Federation's Iron Man Tournament at the Canadian National Exhibition. He remained with the AWF until February 2001. He also worked several dates for Scott D'Amore's Border City Wrestling promotion in Windsor, Ontario, using the name \"Lucifer Love\" (as AWF employees were not allowed to work for regional competitors, Cvjetkovich used a different ring name and gimmick so he would not be found out).\n\nIn May and June 2001, Cvjetkovich toured England with Brian Dixon's All Star Wrestling promotion, where he teamed with fellow Canadian Joe E. Legend defeating top stars Tatanka, Joe Gomez, and Jake Roberts. Shortly after returning from England, Cvjetkovich began working for Northern Championship Wrestling in Montreal. He returned to the AWF in late 2001 and once again participated in the Iron Man Tournament, before forming a tag team with Fabian Stokes known as \"High Maintenance\". Cvjetkovich wrestled in several Twin Wrestling Entertainment TWE main events across Ontario, facing legends such as King Kong Bundy and \"Hacksaw\" Jim Duggan. In the summers of 2002 and 2003, Cvjetkovich wrestled across the Maritimes (Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, and Prince Edward Island) for All Canadian Wrestling run by Bobby Bass and Buddy Lane while competing with fellow wrestlers Peter Kingman, Kowboy Hughes, Jason Bates, Bobby Roode, and Jim Neidhart. In August 2003, Cvjetkovich won the ACW Heavyweight Championship.\n\nIn late 2003, Cvjetkovich appeared with \"Dark Omen\" Elvis Elliot at \"Fallout 2003\" in Warren, MI on September 27. They won the IWR Tag Team Championship in a three-way tag team match, but were stripped of the titles within a month. Cvjetkovich performed with Sideshow Carnival Diablo throughout Ontario, Manitoba, and Quebec, where he was featured as a strong man, and performed feats such as bending iron bars in his teeth, acting as a Human Dartboard, and the Electric Chair. He then returned in March 2004 to participate in tag team tournaments across Canada with partner Elliot. On August 28, Cvjetkovich won the World Xtreme Wrestling Gulf Coast Team Division Championship with Ron Fargo. In December, Cvjetkovich lost to Adam Pearce at the New Japan Dojo.\n\nIn 2005, he began promoting an event called \"Warrior 1 Pro Wrestling LIVE!\" on June 26 at the General Motors Centre in Oshawa, Ontario. In the main event, Cvjetkovich and his partner Helvis were defeated by Team Canada (Petey Williams and Bobby Roode). In November 2005, Sinn returned to Carnival Diablo, as well as partnering with Helvis as \"The Beasts of Burden\". He also competed against Al Snow in TWE. On June 29, 2006, Cvjetkovich won the UWA Ottawa Heavyweight Championship by defeating Bobby Roode in a No Holds Barred match. From July to December, he wrestled regularly for the Pure Wrestling Association where he had multiple shots at the PWA Pure Violence Championship. While still based in Toronto Cvjetkovich (Bodhi) had alongside Eric Young (Jeremy Fritz) helped to break in various wrestlers like former ROH Champ Michael Eligin, Crazzy Steve, Angelina Love and The Perfect 10 Tye Dillinger.\n\nCvjetkovich made his debut in Total Nonstop Action Wrestling on August 13, 2003, under the name \"Sinn\", participating in a six-man tag team match, teaming with Devon Storm and Vampire Warrior, but lost the match. He then joined a stable called The Disciples of the New Church, led by Father James Mitchell. The group engaged in a long running feud in 2003 against Raven and his \"Gathering\", with the teams participating in many hardcore matches between them. In a Dog Collar match on September 24, The New Church lost to The Gathering, but hung the members of The Gathering from the ceiling with chains afterwards. Sinn's final appearance for TNA was in March 2004, with a loss in a tag team tournament with his tag team partner Slash to the team of Kid Kash and Dallas. Cvjetkovich returned for two more appearances with TNA in late 2005 teaming with Helvis (Elvis Elliot) as \"The Beasts of Burden\". On March 5, 2013, Slash and Sinn appeared at TNA Hardcore Justice 2. The Disciples of the New Church were defeated by the Latin American Xchange (Hernandez & Homicide).\n\nIn late 2004, Cvjetkovich wrestled a number of dark matches for World Wrestling Entertainment. Debuting for WWE's developmental territory Ohio Valley Wrestling in December 2006, Cvjetkovich wrestled a number of matches which continued into the summer of 2007, at the suggestion of Al Snow, in hopes of earning a developmental contract with World Wrestling Entertainment. Cvjetkovich was signed to a WWE developmental contract on July 12, 2007. With WWE starting to shift its developmental territory to the newly formed Florida Championship Wrestling, Cvjetkovich reported there instead of OVW. On October 13, 2007, Cvjetkovich made his Florida Championship Wrestling debut under the name Sinn Bowdee, losing to Mariousz Jablonski. While in FCW, Cvjetkovich wrestled and feuded with several wrestlers that later achieved success in WWE such as Evan Bourne, Jack Swagger, Justin Gabriel, Kofi Kingston and Sheamus to name only a few. Bodhi continued to wrestle in FCW even after his debut on the main roster. \n\nOn the October 10, 2008 edition of \"SmackDown\", vignettes promoting the debut of Cvjetkovich, now under the ring name Kizarny, began to air. He later described his character as being as \"if Jake \"The Snake\" Roberts and Doink produced a lovechild.\" During the vignettes, he spoke in carny talk, with additional vignettes airing during the next few weeks. He also competed in dark matches before SmackDown tapings, defeating Ryan Braddock and Curt Hawkins. Kizarny made his in-ring televised WWE debut on the January 2, 2009 episode of \"SmackDown\", defeating Montel Vontavious Porter. Kizarny later reappeared in an Elimination Chamber qualifying battle royal but was eliminated early in the match. In his last appearance on WWE TV, Kizarny appeared in a backstage segment involving Vickie Guerrero and Edge on the February 20, 2009 episode of Smackdown.\n\nOn March 9, 2009, WWE announced that Kizarny had been released from his contract.\n\nCvjetkovich made an appearance for the World Wrestling Council after his release from WWE and had hopes to tour Japan which never materialized. Sinn would compete in Florida Underground Wrestling, while there Sinn would take on FUW's best talents NVUS (Dakota Darsow & Kennedy Kendrick),Eddie Taurus, 666lbs Tweedle Die who Sinn mentored and defeated. Starting on June 18, Cvjetkovich was part of the Jim Rose Circus vs. Jake \"The Snake\" Roberts tour, which featured sideshow circus acts competing with professional wrestling in a battle to top one another. Cvjetkovich was in the main event each night, wrestling Roberts. He has also appeared on the Louisville, Ky-based OVW on the September 4, 2010 episode along with his valet Stacy Carter. On January 29, 2011, Cvjetkovich made his debut for Pro Wrestling Guerrilla (PWG), during the WrestleReunion 5 weekend, and was defeated by Jake Roberts in what was billed as Roberts' retirement match. In April 2013, he won the 55 man casino battle royal at Vendetta Pro Wrestling.\n\nOn November 21, 2010, Cvjetkovich made his debut for Chikara, appearing during a match between UltraMantis Black and Ares, summoning UltraMantis' allys Obariyon and Kodama away from the ring as they were trying to help their leader in his battle against not only Ares, but also his BDK stable mate Tursas. Cvjetkovich worked the appearance under a cloak and never revealed his true identity. During his second appearance at Chikara's season nine finale \"Reality is Relative\" on December 12, 2010, Cvjetkovich revealed his identity as Sinn Bodhi and demanded that UltraMantis Black hand him the Eye of Tyr. When UltraMantis was unable to produce the artifact, Bodhi led Obariyon, Kodama and a third masked man, who was later named Kobald, into an attack on UltraMantis, who was then saved by Hallowicked and Frightmare. UltraMantis later revealed that he had asked for Bodhi's help in training Obariyon, Kodama and Kobald for his battle against BDK, but never agreed to give him the Eye of Tyr. On January 23, 2011, at the season ten premiere, Bodhi wrestled his first Chikara match, losing to UltraMantis Black via disqualification, following interference from Kodama and Obariyon. On March 13 Bodhi defeated UltraMantis in a rematch. On April 15, Bodhi, Kodama and Obariyon entered the 2011 King of Trios, but were eliminated from the tournament in the first round by The Colony (Fire Ant, Green Ant and Soldier Ant). Bodhi was also involved in controversy at KOT due to comments he made during the pre-show which some took to be related to the recent death of Larry Sweeney. Bodhi later apologized for the promo. On September 18, Bodhi and his Dark Army (Kobald, Kodama and Obariyon) faced UltraMantis Black and his Spectral Envoy (Crossbones, Frightmare and Hallowicked) in an eight-man tag team match, which ended with UltraMantis pinning Bodhi for the win. Bodhi's feud with UltraMantis Black came to an end at the High Noon pay-per-view, where UltraMantis handed him the Eye of Tyr (which was later revealed to be a fake replica) and resulted in Bodhi proclaiming that he was now done with Chikara.\n\nIn the wake of Chikara's destruction at , Sinn Bohdi and the Odditorium returned to destroy satellite promotion Wrestling is Art His group later joined with the Flood, an army of former Chikara rudos, to crush Chikara's final remnants at National Pro Wrestling Day 2014, only to be fought off. The Odditorium fought against the Batiri in the return CHikara event, You Only Live Twice where they lost via disqualification from a blatant low blow. They later were part of another CHikara vs. Flood brawl after the final match, which saw Kobold (kayfabe) killed.\n\nCreated by Bodhi, the first live episode took place in Las Vegas NV on April 28, 2011. Freakshow Wrestling is a variety stunt show featuring magicians (Amazing Johnathan, Bizzaro, Shocker), rock bands, (Radio Active Chickenheads, Tartar Control, Rosemary's Billygoat) sideshow performers (Brianna Belledonna, Gracie Psycho, Karen DeLa Kreep, Scorch The Clown, Sleazo The Clown, Staysha Randall, Jenn O. Cide, George The Giant, Swingshift Sideshow) and pro wrestling with characters like Andrea the Giant, Drugz Bunny, The \"Demi-God of Death\" Funny bone, Black Annie, Cereal Man, Willie Mack and the controversial Gaydolf Hitler. Freakshow Wrestling has featured former WWE stars: Brutus \"The Barber\" Beefcake Adam Rose, Boogeyman, John Morrison, D'lo Brown, Cody Rhodes, PJ Black, Chavo Guerrero, The Brian Kendrick, Dr. Tom Prichard, Gangrel, Jake \"The Snake\" Roberts, Katarina Waters, Nick Dinsmore, Rikishi, Shelly Martinez Kevin Sullivan and one the original members of GWAR Techno Destructo).\n\nCreated in May 2017 by Nicholas Cvjetkovich and Kevin Lepine. Fantasy Slam is a pro wrestling fantasy camp where fans can actually get into the ring with professional wrestlers and live out their dreams of being in the squared circle while in a safe and fun environment. Fantasy Slam is coached by Sinn Bodhi and D'lo Brown and each camp is headlined by a different wrestling legend. The first camp was held May 2 through 4th with guest legend Ricky The Dragon Steamboat. The following camp will be held June 2017 featuring Jake The Snake Roberts. Snake Pit Pro is held at the Fantasy Slam studio however this a pro wrestling school for advanced and aspiring pro wrestlers. The Snake Pit is coached by Jake The Snake Roberts, D'lo Brown and Sinn Bodhi.\n\n\nCvjetkovich was the writer, artist, and publisher of the \"Fred the Possessed Flower\" comic book series (1999–2000). With his brother Steven, he wrote a comedy-horror novel called \"Between Chapters\", which was self-published in September 2000. The Cvjetkovich brothers have variously published as \"Happy Predator Press\" and \"Happy Predator Publications\".\n\nSince July 2012 Cvjetkovich has been a tattoo artist at Las Vegas Tattoo Company located in Tampa FL, Precious Slut Tattoo Co in Las Vegas and Dermagraph Ink in Los Angeles.\n\nCvjetkovich is the childhood friend of two wrestlers, Edge and Christian. While growing up, as stated in Edge's book, Cvjetkovich was referred to as \"Fatty\" by Edge and Christian. Cvjetkovich is a protégé and close friend of Jake Roberts. Cvjetkovich's brother, Steven, is also a professional wrestler. He performs under the ring name Kobra Kai and was a mainstay in the Canada-based Blood, Sweat and Ears promotion. On June 12, 2010, Cvjetkovich and former professional wrestler Stacy Carter announced their engagement. Cvjetkovich and Carter were married in St. Petersburg, FL on August 2, 2010 on the beach in front of many family and friends. Stevan Cvjetkovich (Nicholas' younger brother) and Adam Copeland (Edge, World Wrestling Entertainment) both stood as best men. Jimmy the 'Mouth Of The South' Hart gave Stacy Carter away in the ceremony.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189555", "title": "Council of Ariminum", "text": "Council of Ariminum\n\nThe Council of Ariminum, also known after the city's modern name as the Council of Rimini, was an early Christian church synod.\n\nIn 358, the Roman Emperor Constantius II requested two councils, one of the western bishops at Ariminum and one of the eastern bishops (planned for Nicomedia but actually held at Seleucia Isauria) to resolve the Arian controversy over the nature of the divinity of Jesus Christ, which divided the 4th-century church.\n\nIn July 359, the western council (of about 300 or over 400 bishops) met. Ursacius of Singidunum and Valens of Mursa soon proposed a new creed, drafted at the Fourth Council of Sirmium in 359 but not presented there, holding that the Son was similar to the Father \"according to the scriptures,\" and avoiding the controversial terms \"same substance\" and \"similar substance.\" Others favored the creed of Nicaea.\n\nThe opponents of Sirmium wrote a letter to the emperor Constantius, praising Nicaea and condemning any reconsideration of it, before many of them left the council. The supporters of Sirmium then issued the new creed and sent it through Italy.\n\nThe council was considered a defeat for trinitarianism, and Saint Jerome wrote: \"The whole world groaned, and was astonished to find itself Arian.\"\n\nPope Liberius of Rome rejected the new creed, prompting Phoebadius of Agen and Servatius of Tongeren to withdraw their support from the homoian. The supporters of Sirmium deposed Liberius and reappointed Felix of Rome in his place.\n\nTwo councils at Nike (southeast of Adrianople) and Constantinople followed.\n\nThose favoring the Creed drafted at Sirmium included:\n\nThose favoring the Creed of Nicaea included:\n\n"}
{"id": "2189559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189559", "title": "Lutzomyia", "text": "Lutzomyia\n\nLutzomyia is a genus of phlebotomine sand flies consisting of nearly 400 species, at least 33 of which have medical importance as vectors of human disease. Species of the genus \"Lutzomyia\" are found only in the New World, distributed in southern areas of the Nearctic and throughout the Neotropical realm. \"Lutzomyia\" is one of the two genera of the subfamily Phlebotominae to transmit the Leishmania parasite, with the other being \"Phlebotomus\", found only in the Old World. \"Lutzomyia\" sand flies also serve as vectors for the bacterial Carrion's disease and a number of arboviruses.\n\nThe genus, named after Adolfo Lutz, is known from the extinct Burdigalian (20-15 mya) species \"Lutzomyia adiketis\" found as a fossil in Dominican amber on the island of Hispaniola. It is thought that species in the genus \"Lutzomyia\" all originated in the lowland forests to the east of the Andes mountain range, and that their radiation throughout the Neotropics was sparked by dry periods of the Pleistocene, driving colonisation further north and west to areas of higher humidity and leading to reproductive isolation.\n\nThe classification of species within the genus \"Lutzomyia\" is largely unresolved, and relies on often controversial divisions based on morphological taxonomic characters. Such analyses can suffer from polymorphisms within a species, the existence of cryptic species and the frequent lack of distinct morphological characters amongst females. Research has begun in an attempt to resolve evolutionary relationships between species in the genus, using molecular methods to create phylogenies based on ribosomal DNA sequences.\n\nThe \"Lutzomyia\" sand flies are small, biting insects with a body length of up to only 3mm. They are hairy insects with their colour ranging from a near-white to near-black.\n\nOnly the female \"Lutzomyia\" sand flies are blood-feeding, requiring the bloodmeal to provide the nutrients for the maturation of eggs. Therefore, it is only the females who have medical importance as vectors of disease. Both males and females require carbohydrate food as adults, the source of which remains unclear.\n\nThe most medically important species for human disease transmission are those which predominantly favour humans as a source of bloodmeal. These species are known as anthropophillic and tend to feed at around dusk. However, there are examples of anthropophillic species that will attack in the daytime. The majority of anthropohillic \"Lutzomyia\" species in the Americas are exophillic, which means that they favour biting outside of homes.\n\nThe resting behaviour of \"Lutzomyia\" sand flies, like many other aspects of their biology, is important to understand for targeted, vector-based control methods to reduce transmission of Leishmaniasis. For example, residual spraying of insecticides can be targeted at known resting sites to increase effectiveness. \"Lutzomyia\" sand flies generally rest outdoors, with the type of resting site varying between species and in response to the seasons and the availability of particular microhabitats. The largest resting microhabitat is the forest floor, but sand flies will also rest in a variety of other areas, such as in the nests and burrows of mammals, within the trunks of hollow trees and inside bat caves. The resting position adopted by \"Lutzomyia\" sand flies is characteristic to the genus, with wings angling above the abdomen.\n\nThe sand fly genus \"Lutzomyia\" includes all species responsible for transmission, in the New World, of the \"Leishmania\" parasite; the causative agent of leishmaniasis. Of the more than 350 \"Lutzomyia\" species identified, less than 10% are known or suspected to transmit leishmaniasis to humans. The disease is in endemic in 22 countries of tropical and subtropical America, where it is generally considered a zoonosis. That is, the parasite cycles between mammalian reservoir hosts and the sand flies, with humans serving as incidental, dead-end hosts. Common reservoirs in the Americas include a number of rodent species, as well as dogs, sloths and armadillos. The \"Lutzomyia\" sand flies maintain transmission amongst reservoir species and allow the disease to ‘jump’ to humans, causing the visceral, cutaneous or mucocutaneous forms of the disease depending on the \"Leishmania\" species. Visceral Leishmaniasis is a serious form of the disease in particular that affects the internal organs. This specific disease is primarily transmitted by the species \"Lutzomyia Longipalpis\". The human-sand fly-human cycle of transmission, known as anthroponotic, is limited to two \"Leishmania\" species endemic in the Old World and so does not involve \"Lutzomyia\" sand flies. \n\nThe New World \"Leishmania\" species transmitted by \"Lutzomyia\" sand flies are often classified in the subgenus, \"Viannia\". These genetically distinct parasites show markedly different patterns of development within the New World sand flies when compared to those seen in the Old World \"Phlebotomus\" sand flies. The first stages of development are similar between all \"Leishmania\" species, with the sandfly taking up the amastigote form of the parasite following a bite of an infected host. However, unlike in the Old World, the replicated parasites then migrate to the hindgut of the \"Lutzomyia\" sand fly, a feature which is thought to be essential in allowing the parasite to become established. The parasite then undergoes further development into the infective, promastigote stage as it migrates to anterior end of the insect, ready for inoculation into a new, susceptible host.\n\nThe high level of species diversity in the genus \"Lutzomyia\", coupled with its high adaptability is leading to increasing risk of \"Leishmania\" transmission in the New World in response to global change. \"Lutzomyia\" sand flies transmit the disease in the tropics and subtropics, regions which are subject to high levels of deforestation associated with continual development. Deforestation, with the establishment of settlements at the periphery of primary or secondary forest, increases the risk of \"Leishmania\" transmission by creating a selection pressure for the adaptation of sand flies to these new peridomestic environments. In southern Brazil, for example, levels of cutaneous leishmaniasis are increasing as a result of the adaptation of three, formerly forest-inhabiting species (\"Lutzomyia intermedia\", \"Lutzomyia whitmani\" and \"Lutzomyi migonei\") following deforestation. Now, a disease which previously only affected forest workers is becoming more prevalent in urbanisations. Similar increases in risk factors are also driving higher rates of visceral leishmaniasis in north-eastern Brazil. Increased urbanisation, driven by climate change and socio-economic factors, is bringing the adapting sand flies into closer contact with both humans and the domestic canine reservoirs of the disease.\n\nCarrion's disease, also known as bartonellosis, is a disease caused by the blood-borne bacteria, \"Bartonella bacilliformis\". The disease is transmitted by the sand fly species \"Lutzomyia verracarum\", as well as lice and fleas, and is found in areas of Peru, Colombia and Ecuador. The lifecycle of the bacteria within \"Lutzomyia\" sand flies remain largely unknown, with speculation that the bacteria are spread between sandflies sharing the same breeding grounds and water supplies. The existence of bartonellosis transmission in areas not inhabited by \"Lutzomyia verracarum\" suggests that secondary vectors, and potentially other \"Lutzomyia\" species, are important in the spread of the disease.\n\nA number of arthropod-borne viruses (arboviruses) are transmitted by \"Lutzomyia\" sand flies. One such virus of medical importance is the vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) of the genus \"Vesiculovirus\". Viruses of this genus are typically associated with flu-like symptoms, but have also been known to cause encephalitis. While transmission of the Indiana serotype of VSV by \"Lutzomyia trapidoi\" has been demonstrated under laboratory conditions, little is known about the cycles of virus infection between vertebrates and \"Lutzomyia\" sand flies. However, they are thought to be supported by both horizontal and transovarial transmission in the sand fly.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189560", "title": "Myxedema psychosis", "text": "Myxedema psychosis\n\nMyxedema psychosis is a relatively uncommon consequence of hypothyroidism, such as in Hashimoto's thyroiditis or in patients who have had the thyroid surgically removed and are not taking thyroxine. A chronically under-active thyroid can lead to slowly progressive dementia, delirium, and in extreme cases to hallucinations, coma, or psychosis, particularly in the elderly. It was first recognized by Dr Richard Asher of London in 1949.\n\nTreatment is via the standard treatment for hypothyroidism with thyroxine replacement. Oral T, or in especially acute cases liothyronine, a sodium salt of T. Hormone replacement in these patients usually reverses the psychotic symptoms, but may not help with cognitive deficits caused by changes in metabolic activity in the CNS.\n\nThe \"myxedema\" part of the name simply refers to the non-pitting edema common to hypothyroidism.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189561", "title": "Bongoville", "text": "Bongoville\n\nBongoville is a town in south eastern Gabon, lying east of Franceville. It was known as Lewai until its renaming for President Omar Bongo, who was born in what was then a village but was greatly enlarged under his presidency. It lies just west of the Bateke Plateau and is home to Stade de Bongoville, a 2,500-capacity stadium where the city's AC Bongoville football club plays its home games.\n"}
{"id": "2189562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189562", "title": "The Live Adventure", "text": "The Live Adventure\n\nThe Live Adventure is the first live album by Steven Curtis Chapman, released on September 7, 1993. The album was recorded on May 6, 1993, during Chapman's tour for \"The Great Adventure\". The album was released on September 7, 1993, to CD, cassette, and VHS tape formats (VHS tape format includes an alternative box cover).\n\nThe concert video won the 1994 Gospel Music Association award for Long Form Music Video of the Year, and the song \"Go There With You\" won the title of Pop/Contemporary Recorded Song of the Year. The album brought Chapman his third Grammy award, for Best Pop/Contemporary Gospel Album, in 1994. The concert video was directed by Michael Salomon, and edited by Michael Salomon, Scott C. Wilson, and Steve Rasch.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189564", "title": "E. S. Gosney", "text": "E. S. Gosney\n\nEzra Seymour Gosney (November 6, 1855 – September 14, 1942) was an American philanthropist and eugenicist. In 1928 he founded the Human Betterment Foundation (HBF) in Pasadena, California, with the stated aim \"to foster and aid constructive and educational forces for the protection and betterment of the human family in body, mind, character, and citizenship,\" primarily through the advocacy of compulsory sterilization of the mentally ill and mentally retarded.\n\nGosney was born in Kenton County, Kentucky in 1855, and received a degree in law from the Saint Louis University School of Law in 1880. He settled in Flagstaff, Arizona where he was involved in the establishment of a Wool Grower's Association. Around 1905 he relocated to Southern California, eager to escape the \"wild west\" environment still present in Arizona while raising two daughters. There he became an active participant in the Pasadena, California business community, especially in the acquisition of citrus and other agricultural crops. Around this time he also became active in the establishment of the first California council of the Boy Scouts of America. He also donated $12,500 to Polytechnic School in 1907 to found the school. By the 1920s he had built up a considerable fortune, owned one of the largest lemon groves in the state, and served as the director of numerous banks, trusts companies, and corporations.\n\nWhile working in Pasadena he became acquainted with the biologist and eugenicist Paul B. Popenoe, and in 1925 Gosney financed Popenoe's collection of data on the implementation of California's eugenic compulsory sterilization laws. At the time, compulsory sterilization was seen by many as a way to reduce the incidence of mental illness and mental retardation in the population over time. Many states had legislation requiring the sterilization of patients at state-run psychiatric facilities, though only California executed the laws in earnest, as most other state officials were wary about the legal status of compulsory sterilization legislation.\n\nThe result of Gosney and Popenoe's research was a co-authored volume, \"Sterilization for Human Betterment: A Summary of Results of 6,000 Operations in California, 1909–1929\", completed and published in 1929. The book sought to argue that eugenic sterilization was scientifically supported, caused no harm to patients, and was legally sound. The book, distributed widely by Gosney, was used to promote compulsory sterilization legislation in other states and countries, and along with work by Harry H. Laughlin was one of the most influential texts on sterilization in the United States. Gosney and Popenoe's book was specifically referenced by officials in Nazi Germany in the creation of their own sterilization legislation in 1933 as having provided them with proof that sterilization programs could be safe and effective. According to a U.S. health official at the time who had just returned from a trip to Germany, \"the leaders in the German sterilization movement state repeatedly that their legislation was formulated only after careful study of the California experiment.\" (quoted in Kühl 1994, p. 42-43) Gosney and Popenoe believed the population of mentally ill in the United States could be reduced by half in \"three or four generations.\" The Sacramento philanthropist/eugenicist Charles Goethe wrote to Gosney in a letter from 1934:\n\nA follow-up study, \"Twenty-eight Years of Sterilization in California\" was published by the pair in 1938 (the \"American Journal of Sociology\" reviewed it with a single sentence: \"An awkward attempt to popularize the practice of sterilizing defectives\"). The state of California would eventually sterilize over 20,000 patients in state-run hospitals under its eugenic laws; Nazi Germany would sterilize over 400,000.\n\nIn 1926, Gosney first began to organize what would by 1928 become chartered as the Human Betterment Foundation as a philanthropic foundation to promote research and advocacy of eugenics, especially by means of sterilization. As Gosney put it, the Foundation would work for:\nThe initial board of trustees were Gosney, Henry M. Robinson (a Los Angeles banker), George Dock (a Pasadena physician), David Starr Jordan (chancellor of Stanford University), Justin Miller (dean of the college of law at the University of Southern California), Otis Castle (a Los Angeles attorney), Joe G. Crick (a Pasadena horticulturist), Goethe, and Popenoe. Later members included Lewis Terman (a Stanford psychologist best known for creating the Stanford-Binet test of IQ), William B. Munro (a Harvard professor of political science), and University of California, Berkeley professors Herbert M. Evans (anatomy) and Samuel J. Holmes (zoology).\n\nThe Foundation also established links with the California Institute of Technology, with Nobel Prize-winning Caltech physicist Robert Millikan joining the board of the HBF in 1937. The Foundation published a number of pamphlets and financed continued studies of the California sterilization program through the 1930s, and sent thousands of letters to teachers, libraries, and physicians advocating eugenic sterilization. It also underwrote a column in the \"Los Angeles Times\" on \"social eugenics\" and financed a radio program as well as hundreds of popular lectures around the country. Along with the American Eugenics Society, it was the most active and influential eugenics advocacy group in the country.\n\nUpon Gosney's death in 1942, his daughter liquidated the Foundation and donated its remaining assets to Caltech, which in 1943 established a Gosney research fund for biological research using the money. The archives of the Human Betterment Foundation are in Special Collections at Caltech in Pasadena.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189569", "title": "IRC subculture", "text": "IRC subculture\n\nIRC subculture refers to the particular set of social features common to interaction on the various Internet Relay Chat (IRC) systems across the world, and the culture associated with them. IRC is particularly popular among programmers, hackers, and computer gamers.\n\nInternet Relay Chat is an Internet-based chat system that has existed in one form or another since 1988. Networks are connected groups of IRC servers which share a common userbase. Channels are the \"chat rooms\" on said networks. IRC channel operators (commonly referred to as chops or chanops) are the individuals who run any given channel.\n\nWhile there are many different IRC networks, and across those networks there are usually large numbers of IRC channels, there are some unifying features common to the social structures of them all. Many of the features of the IRC subculture mesh with other Internet subcultures, such as various forum subcultures. This is especially prevalent in IRC channels or networks that are directly related to other Internet phenomena, such as an IRC channel created by and for the users of a particular Internet forum.\n\nIRC has much in common with a regular in-person conversation. It is real-time many-on-many communication that is not logged by the server for posterity (many IRC clients do offer a logging feature, but the logs aren't generally publicly available then). Some bots may also feature logging facilities. Users on IRC usually identify users as ones \"saying\" something (instead of posting it) to reflect the similarity with face-to-face communication.\n\nBecause IRC is a text-based communication medium, the obvious limitation of this metaphor is that the participants of a conversation on IRC do not actually see or hear each other, so alternative ways must be employed to convey the information that would otherwise be gained from facial expressions, tones of voice, and other audio-visual clues. It is common practice among IRC users to use emoticons, pseudo-XML tags (for example <joke>...</joke>) or actions (such as *smile* or *grin*) to achieve this. Other notations common to text only media are common on IRC, such as using asterisks around *words or phrases to be emphasized*, /using slashes around words or phrases/ to simulate italics, and imparting PARTICULAR EMPHASIS to something by writing it in all capitals. Some clients also respond to \"percent notations,\" such as pairs of %B around bold text, %I surrounding italicized text, or %C to change the text color. In these cases, a graphical environment may be required (as text terminals typically don't have such rendering capabilities as italics and color).\n\nOrthographical and grammatical mistakes are generally not frowned upon as much on IRC as they are in other kinds of Internet forums, given the informal and temporary nature of them. If the conversation is going at a decent speed, it is not practical to correct every typo. It is similar to many instant messaging networks.\n\nOften users will visit the same channel regularly and form strong emotional ties to the other regulars of that channel.\n\nHaving certain privileges on IRC is often considered a status symbol. The server administrators (those with administrative access to the IRC servers) and the IRC operators appointed by them thus have the highest status. Within the individual channels the channel operators then have a higher status than the regular users. Sometimes it is channel policy to \"voice\" users (add to the user's mode) in order to denote them as helpers or channel regulars, even though the channel is not in moderated mode.\nOn many networks a channel service keeps a record of levels that operators on a given channel have, which imposes an even more differentiated structure. In certain cases, being given operator status on a channel, or being promoted to a higher level operator, is considered a social reward rather than for intent of functioning as a more privileged user. Being kicked (forcibly parted) or even banned from a channel is considered punishment. Kicks are a less serious punishment, and many clients have an auto-rejoin on kick feature.\n\nWhile many aspects of IRC subculture are common across the entire community, many aspects are specific to particular networks, channels, or groups of channels.\n\nSome networks have specific sets of etiquette, guidelines and quirks that vary from those of other networks. For example, atopical channels on general networks like EFnet tend to haze their new users more aggressively than topical channels on networks like freenode.\n\nSome channels have specific sets of etiquette and guidelines that vary from those of other channels.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189570", "title": "Hurricane Alma", "text": "Hurricane Alma\n\nTropical Storm Alma (2008), was the easternmost forming Pacific tropical cyclone on record and the first tropical storm on record to strike the Pacific coast of Nicaragua. In the spring of 2009, the WMO retired the name \"Alma\" and replaced it with \"Amanda\" for use in the 2014 Pacific hurricane season. \n\nThe name Alma was also used to name 11 tropical cyclones worldwide. 5 in the North Atlantic and Eastern Pacific, and 1 in the Western Pacific and may refer to:\n\nAtlantic:\n\nEastern Pacific:\n\nWestern Pacific:\n"}
{"id": "2189571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189571", "title": "The Lex Diamond Story", "text": "The Lex Diamond Story\n\nThe Lex Diamond Story is the third studio album by American hip hop recording artist and Wu-Tang Clan-member Raekwon, released December 16, 2003 on his Ice H2O label through Universal Records. The album features contributions from Wu-Tang members Ghostface Killah, Method Man, Masta Killa, Inspectah Deck, and Cappadonna, with production by several hip hop producers, including Emile and DJ Khalil.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189576", "title": "Bureau of the Public Debt", "text": "Bureau of the Public Debt\n\nThe Bureau of the Public Debt was an agency within the Fiscal Service of the United States Department of the Treasury. United States Secretary of the Treasury Timothy Geithner directed the Bureau be combined with the Financial Management Service into the single Bureau of the Fiscal Service in 2012.\n\nUnder authority derived from Article I, section 8 of the Constitution, the Bureau of Public Debt was responsible for borrowing the money needed to operate the federal government, and is where donations to reduce the debt were made. It also accounted for the resulting debt and more recently, provides administrative and IT services to federal agencies. Principal operations were conducted in Washington, D.C. and Parkersburg, West Virginia. Additionally, Federal Reserve Banks, acting as Treasury's fiscal agents, operate critical systems in support of Public Debt Programs and perform a variety of processing and customer service functions in marketable and savings securities.\n\nThe Bureau also provides reimbursable administrative and information technology services to other government agencies through the Administrative Resource Center (ARC). Public Debt fulfills its mission through five different programs: Wholesale Securities Services, Government Agency Investment Services, Retail Securities Services, Summary Debt Accounting, and Franchise Services. \n\nWhile the public debt of the United States can be traced to the beginning of the nation itself in 1776, Public Debt, as it's known today, was officially created in 1940. The United States' government creates financial budgets through three methods: by printing money, collecting taxes, and by borrowing. The printing of money is costly and the introduction of money in the nation can create issues of inflation. Taxing the people requires the ability to incur the additional costs of their personal incomes to give to the urgent need of the debt. Borrowing is necessary to be able to finance deficits at times from those who can afford to supplement the debt in the belief that upon a time of surplus the debts would be paid back to those indebted to by the borrowers. Today, the Bureau of Public also make insurances and issues securities through the market. The creation was part of a Treasury reorganization plan where the Public Debt Service was officially designated the Bureau of the Public Debt. Public Debt has had a presence in Parkersburg, WV since 1954, when the city was designated a relocation site for Public Debt in the event of a national emergency. In 1957, Parkersburg became the electronic processing center for savings bonds, and from 1993 to 1996, Public Debt consolidated and transferred the majority of its operations to Parkersburg. Today, over 95% of Public Debt employees work in Parkersburg. In October 2012, the Bureau of the Public Debt consolidated with the Financial Management Service to form the Bureau of the Fiscal Service.\n\nThe Wholesale Securities Services program ensures the government's critical financing needs are met and administers Treasury's auction rules and government securities market regulations. Wholesale Securities Services is responsible for the sale and issuance of trillions of dollars in securities each year, and the operation of Treasury and Federal Reserve systems that support the issuance and redemption of Treasury securities.\n\nAnother responsibility of the program is identifying which securities can be pledged to the government for collateral and determining how these securities are valued. This process ensures that both government funds on deposit at commercial banks and private-sector contracts with the government are secured.\n\nThe Wholesale Securities Services program contributes to Treasury's priority of financing the debt at the lowest cost over time by guaranteeing operational readiness to meet the government's financing needs and protecting and strengthening Treasury's borrowing capabilities. It also educates and builds relationships with large investors and preserves confidence in Treasury auctions through the auction rule compliance program.\n\nThe Government Agency Investment Services program is made up of three components: Federal Investments, Special Purpose Securities, and Federal Borrowings. The program offers specialized investments for government entities at the federal, state, and local levels.\n\n\nThe Retail Securities Services program serves millions of Treasury securities investors. Specifically, the program is responsible for the issuance, servicing and redemption of U.S. Savings Bonds and marketable Treasury securities. Additionally, the TreasuryDirect and Legacy Treasury Direct holding systems fall under the Retail Securities Services program. Legacy Treasury Direct and TreasuryDirect systems allow individuals and institutions set up accounts to purchase Treasury securities and hold them directly with Treasury, rather than with a financial institution.\n\nThe program currently is focused on supporting Treasury's goal of effectively managing government finances by positioning Treasury to eliminate new issues of paper savings bonds and improving service quality and efficiency for customers.\n\nThe Summary Debt Accounting program is responsible for accounting for the public debt of the United States and related interest expenses. The program controls and reconciles Treasury securities transactions and related cash flows. These cash flows represent funds received from the sale of securities and funds disbursed as interest and principal payments. Summary Debt Accounting also produces and publishes data and reports on the composition of the public debt as well as the balance of the debt to the penny. The program is focused on improving the clarity, usefulness and availability of federal debt information.\n\nPublic Debt's Administrative Resource Center (ARC) provides reimbursable financial, administrative and IT services to a wide variety of federal agencies. Administrative services include financial accounting, travel and relocation services, human resources, procurement, and investment services. Information technology services include application development and hosting, website development, Internet services, network maintenance, security consulting, and encryption services.\n\nARC was selected by the Office of Management and Budget as a Shared Service Provider for Financial Management as well as Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) services, and as a Shared Service Center to perform Certification & Accreditation (C&A) through the Information Systems Security Line of Business (ISSLOB). ARC allows customers to focus on their missions, not support functions; lowers customer administrative service costs; improves data quality through standardization; and strengthens controls and ensures audit compliance.\n\nAs of June 18, 2010, the Bureau of Public Debt assists other government agencies in the reduction and prevention of improper payments by federally funded programs being issued. With the establishment of a single point of entry for these government funded paying agencies, determining eligibility for a grant, benefit, or contract award can be done. As a result of this streamlining improper payments will no longer occur or be avoided completely. Funds will not go to the wrong recipient or be used by a recipient in an improper manner, recipients will not receive the incorrect amount of funds (including overpayments and underpayments), and documentation will be available to support a payment that should occur and will not be available to payments that should not occur.\n\nWholesale Securities Services: \n\nRetail Securities Services: \n\nGovernment Agency Investment Services: \n\nSummary Debt Accounting: \n\nFranchise Services: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189583", "title": "Marcus Hyman", "text": "Marcus Hyman\n\nMarcus Hyman, M.A., LL.B. (July 13, 1883—December 21, 1938) was a politician in Manitoba, Canada. He served in the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba from 1932 to 1938, representing the Independent Labour Party.\n\nHyman was born to a Jewish family near Vilna, Poland. His father, the Rabbi Aaron Hyman, was the author of several works. The younger Hyman was educated at Worcester College, Oxford, and received five scholarships during his time in England. From 1910 to 1913, he worked as the private tutor to an India prince. He came to Canada in 1913, and worked as a barrister-at-law, also lecturing at the Manitoba Law School from 1915 to 1921 in international law and legal history. In 1914, he married Erna Ziembiska.\n\nDuring World War I, Hyman was president of the Western Canadian Relief Fund for the Relief of War Sufferers and, in 1917-18, chair of the Winnipeg Committee of the British and Canadian Recruiting Mission. The letter organization helped to raise men for combat in Egypt and Palestine. From 1923 to 1928, he was a member of the Winnipeg School Board.\n\nHyman's political career effectively began with the Winnipeg General Strike. He acted as defense council for the strikers, and defended a number of east European strikers accused of \"foreign agitation\". He continued his practice as a labour lawyer in the 1920s, and was a supporter of the One Big Union.\n\nHe first sought election to the Manitoba legislature in the 1927 provincial election, but finished third in Manitoba riding. He ran for Mayor of Winnipeg in 1930 and 1931, but lost on both occasions.\n\nHe was elected to the Manitoba legislature in the 1932 election, running as a candidate in the Winnipeg constituency. At the time, Winnipeg elected ten members by preferential balloting. Hyman finished ninth on the first count, and was subsequently declared elected. He served with his ILP colleagues on the opposition benches throughout his time in the legislature.\n\nHis re-election in the 1936 election was not guaranteed, as the ILP faced strong opposition from the Communist Party and independent leftist Lewis Stubbs. Hyman again finished ninth on the first count, but had to wait for the sixteenth count to be confirmed as successful.\n\nHyman was one of the most respected members of the legislature, and spoke on subjects such as education, civil liberties and labour legislation. He was an early supporter of larger school units for the province, considering the local units to be ineffective. Hyman also endorsed the creation of Riding Mountain National Park.\n\nHe is remembered particularly for having co-sponsored the province's Anti-Defamation Bill, which allowed members of a racial or religious group to sue for an injunction against a defaming publisher or author. Known as the \"Hyman Act\", this bill was supported the John Bracken government and given unanimous passage in 1934.\n\nHe died in Winnipeg in 1938, while still a member of the legislature.\n\nThe University of Manitoba offers a Marcus Hyman Memorial Scholarship. One past winner of the scholarship was Larry Zolf.\n"}
{"id": "2189584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189584", "title": "Wildon", "text": "Wildon\n\nWildon is a small town near Leibnitz in the Austrian state of Styria.\n\nThe village was first mentioned in 1219. It was mainly known due to a minstrel called Herrand von Wildonje, who lived during the 13th century and was also engaged in local politics. According to legends, Wildon got its name from a wild man who was living in a cave on a hill nearby. Legend has it that a woman living in the village went up to the cave, and killed the wild man with a pair of Nitting Needles to where those of the village could then go up and enjoy the cave. A medieval ruin is also situated on that hill.\n\nAn equestrian center and a lake for bathing, the Wildoner Teich, is to be found in the vicinity. Wildon is situated on a cycle track which runs alongside the Mur river from Graz to Bad Radkersburg.\n\nThe journey by train from Graz main station to Wildon takes approximately 27 minutes using trains travelling to Spielfeld-Straß.\n"}
{"id": "2189586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189586", "title": "Dornbirn District", "text": "Dornbirn District\n\nThe Bezirk Dornbirn is an administrative district (\"Bezirk\") in Vorarlberg, Austria. A rather young district, it was separated from the Feldkirch district in 1969.\n\nThe area of the district is 172.7 km², the population 82,721 (January 1, 2012), which makes a population density of 479 persons per km². The administrative center of the district is Dornbirn.\n\nThe district consists of three municipalities, two of which (Dornbirn and Hohenems) are towns, the third (Lustenau) being the largest market town in Austria. Hohenems is the youngest town in Vorarlberg to have received town privileges (in 1983).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189587", "title": "Hurricane Dennis", "text": "Hurricane Dennis\n\nHurricane Dennis was an early-forming major hurricane in the Caribbean and Gulf of Mexico during the record-breaking 2005 Atlantic hurricane season. Dennis was the fourth named storm, second hurricane, and first major hurricane of the season. Forming in July, the hurricane became the strongest Atlantic hurricane ever to form before August at the time, a title it held for only six days before being surpassed by Hurricane Emily.\n\nDennis made landfall in Cuba twice as a Category 4 hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson scale and made landfall on the United States' Florida Panhandle as a Category 3 storm, coming less than a year after the devastating Hurricane Ivan. Dennis killed 88 people in total and was responsible for $2.5 billion (2005 USD) in damages to the United States, not counting additional damage in the Caribbean.\n\nThe tropical wave that became Dennis was identified by the National Hurricane Center on June 26, 2005, well inland over Africa. It later emerged over the Atlantic Ocean on June 29 and moved quickly to the west. Dry conditions over the Sahara initially inhibited development, though the wave found more favorable conditions and intensified into a tropical depression on July 4 while nearing the Windward Islands. The depression soon crossed the island country of Grenada before entering the Caribbean Sea, where increasingly favorable environmental factors, such as low wind shear and high sea surface temperatures, fueled intensification. Turning west-northwest, the system achieved tropical storm status on July 5 and hurricane status the following day. Formation of a well-defined eye and central dense overcast signaled Dennis's intensification into a major hurricane on July 7. The hurricane subsequently traversed the Jamaica Channel, bringing deadly floods to both Jamaica and Haiti.\n\nThe powerful storm soon struck Granma Province, Cuba, as a Category 4 hurricane early on July 8; violent winds battered the province and caused extensive damage. Briefly weakening due to interaction with land, Dennis quickly regained its strength. Paralleling the southwestern coast of Cuba, Dennis attained its peak winds of later that day before making a second landfall in the country, this time in Matanzas Province. Interaction with the mountains of Cuba caused significant weakening; however, once Dennis emerged over the Gulf of Mexico on July 9, it quickly reorganized in favorable conditions. The hurricane reached Category 4 strength for the third time on July 10 as it approached Florida, attaining its lowest barometric pressure of 930 mbar (hPa; 27.46 inHg). This ranked Dennis as the strongest hurricane in the Atlantic basin to form before August; however, this record was broken just six days later by Hurricane Emily, which surpassed Dennis and attained Category 5 status. Weakening ensued as the hurricane approached the Florida Panhandle, the storm ultimately making landfall over Santa Rosa Island on July 10 as a Category 3. Weakening continued as the cyclone moved further inland, and the storm quickly lost tropical cyclone status. Dennis' remnant circulation remained, however, traversing the Mississippi River Valley and Ohio River Valley before finally dissipating over Ontario on July 18.\n\nIn Haiti, officials evacuated residents along the coastline, but noted that many were not obliging. In Cuba more than 600,000 residents were moved from their homes to government shelters or other locations in anticipation of Dennis. All schools were closed, and most flights in the country were suspended or cancelled.\n\nThe Cayman Islands chapter of the Red Cross opened shelters on July 7 and placed 120 volunteers on standby. Schools and government offices closed for the duration of Dennis's passage.\n\nIn the United States, the governors of Florida, Alabama, Mississippi and Louisiana all declared states of emergency in their states. At 6 am CDT (2300 UTC) on July 9, 2005, all southbound lanes on Interstate 65 from Mobile to Montgomery, Alabama, were closed. Traffic was redirected, making all four lanes northbound to allow evacuations. In Alabama residents in all parts of Mobile County, and those south of I-10 in Baldwin County, were ordered to evacuate. Similar orders were issued in Mississippi for parts of Jackson, Hancock, and Harrison counties; and for coastal areas in the Florida Panhandle stretching from Escambia County to Bay County. Likewise, military installations such as NAS Pensacola, Whiting Field, Eglin AFB, Hurlburt Field and Tyndall AFB were all evacuated days before the storm. Additionally, Red Cross officials opened 87 shelters across the state which were able to hold about 14,000 evacuees.\n\nIn Florida, about 50,000 tourists in the Keys were forced to evacuate by July 8. The MacDill Air Force Base in Tampa evacuated its aircraft to McConnell Air Force Base near Wichita, Kansas. 700,000 people in the Florida panhandle were evacuated in the days prior to Dennis, 100,000 of them in Escambia County alone. As a result of the large evacuations, more than 200 truckloads provided about 1.8 million gallons of gasoline. The Red Cross also moved 60 mobile canteens capable of serving 30,000 hot meals each a day to the staging points of Hattiesburg and Jackson. National guardsmen were mobilized, and four emergency medical teams, each capable of setting up a small field hospital, were on standby. Also, at Eglin Air Force Base, about 20,000 military personnel were evacuated, and at Hurlburt Field, home to Air Force's 16th Special Operations Wing, a mandatory evacuation was ordered for all 15,000 airmen and their families.\n\nHeavy rain from the outer bands of Dennis produced widespread flooding and landslides in Haiti. The resulting torrents killed at least 56 people, injured 36 others, and left 24 more missing. At least nine of the fatalities occurred when a bridge collapsed in Grand-Goâve. Extensive property damage was incurred with 929 homes destroyed and another 3,058 damaged, leaving 1,500 families homeless. Damage totaled US$50 million.\n\nDennis brought torrential rain to Jamaica, with accumulations peaking at in Mavis Bank—a 1-in-50 year event. Widespread flash flooding ensued, damaging or destroying numerous homes and businesses. The overflow of multiple rivers prompted evacuations in several towns and left many stranded. Saint Thomas and Portland Parishes were hardest-hit. Overall, one person died there and damage exceeded J$2.128 billion (US$34.5 million).\n\nFrom there the storm moved to Cuba, leaving 16 people dead and $1.4 billion in damages as it roared through the island, flattening houses and downing trees and power lines. Heavy rainfall fell across the country, with amounts reaching up to , making Dennis the wettest storm for the island since Hurricane Flora of 1963. According to reports from the Cuban government, 120,000 homes were damaged, 15,000 of which were destroyed. The citrus and vegetable industries were also devastated as Cuba's primary agricultural regions were the hardest hit. Nonetheless, Fidel Castro publicly refused US aid after the storm in protest of the ongoing US trade embargo against Cuba, stating that, \"If they offered $1 billion we would say no.\" Relayed reports from Cuban meteorologists stated that a gust up to was detected at Cienfuegos, 85% of the power lines were down, and extensive damage to the communications infrastructure had occurred. Dennis was more destructive than the previous year's Hurricane Charley and was widely regarded as the worst hurricane to strike Cuba since Hurricane Flora in the 1963 season.\n\nIn the United States, damage was not as high as originally expected, mainly because Dennis was more compact and moved more quickly than initially forecast. Dennis made landfall approximately to the east of where Hurricane Ivan had made landfall 10 months before, but did not cause as much damage as Ivan, due to its compact size, quicker path, and because the area was not fully rebuilt from the prior year. Dennis moved about faster than Ivan at landfall, and had hurricane-force winds that only extended from its center, compared to Ivan's 105-mile radius (170 km). During the height of the storm, Dennis produced storm surges as high as in the Apalachee Bay region, and as high as on the Florida Panhandle, and left 680,000 customers without electricity in four southern states.\n\nIn southern Florida, damage was mostly limited to moderate wind gusts; in Miami-Dade County, gusty winds knocked out several traffic lights along U.S. 1, the only route to and from the Florida Keys. A man died in Fort Lauderdale when he stepped on a downed electrical wire and was electrocuted. Damage was mostly minor and limited to outer rainbands and tornadoes in Central Florida. In the Tampa Bay area, several tornadoes were reported to have touched down causing minor damage such as downed trees and power lines. The most severe damage occurred on the Florida Panhandle. At Navarre Beach, sustained winds of were reported with a peak gust of , while a tower at the Pensacola Airport reported sustained winds of and a peak gust of . Milton received of rain, the highest reported rainfall total in Florida caused by Dennis. No significant damage was reported to most structures; however, insurers initially estimated that Dennis caused $3–$5 billion in insured damage, or approximately $6–$10 billion total (insured damage estimates are generally held to be approximately one-half of total damages). However, the NHC reported total damage in the United States as only $2.5 billion with $1.115 billion of insured damage.\n\nIn Alabama, sustained winds reached minimal hurricane force in the interior of the state. In total, 280,000 people in Alabama experienced power outages during the storm. No deaths occurred, although Dennis caused three injuries and total damage amounted to $127 million (2005 USD), mostly due to structural damage. There was also severe damage to cotton crops. In Mississippi, damage was not as severe as previously anticipated. As Dennis impacted the state, a storm tide of – above normal was reported. Rainfall from the hurricane averaged between , and minimum barometric pressure of 994.2 mb was reported near Pascagoula. Wind gusts peaked at causing several hundred trees to uproot or snap, damaging a total of 21 homes and businesses.\nDennis caused at least 10 tornadoes in the U.S., although only one of them reached F1 status on the Fujita scale. The storm dropped over of rain in some areas of Alabama and Georgia (see the ). Parts of Georgia, which had received heavy rain just days earlier from Hurricane Cindy, suffered heavy flooding, and flash-floods were reported on the outskirts of the Atlanta metropolitan area.\n\nIn the United States, 15 storm-related deaths (14 in Florida) were reported, including one in Walton County, three in Broward County, three in Charlotte County, one each in Nassau and Escambia Counties and one in Decatur, Georgia. In the Gulf of Mexico, the storm caused \"Thunder Horse PDQ\", a BP oil rig about southeast of New Orleans, Louisiana, to severely list.\n\nBecause of the great amount of damage and deaths in the Caribbean and United States, the name \"Dennis\" was retired in the spring of 2006, and will never again be used for an Atlantic hurricane. It was replaced by \"Don\", which was first used during the 2011 hurricane season. Dennis was one of five names to be retired in 2005—alongside Katrina, Rita, Stan, and Wilma; this is the greatest such number since the implementation of retirement in 1955.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189591", "title": "The Great Adventure (album)", "text": "The Great Adventure (album)\n\nThe Great Adventure is the fifth album released by Christian singer Steven Curtis Chapman. The album was released on June 19, 1992 by Sparrow Records. It went Gold in just under one year, being certified June 15, 1993.\n\nThe album was listed at No. 33 in the 2001 book, \"\". It brought Chapman several Gospel Music Association awards at the 24th GMA Dove Awards in 1993, including Song of the Year (with Geoff Moore), Pop/Contemporary Recorded Song of the Year, and Short Form Music Video of the Year for the title song, and Pop/Contemporary Album of the Year. The album also won the 1993 Grammy Award for Best Pop/Contemporary Gospel Album.\n\nThe album features guest appearances by artists like Toby McKeehan (dc Talk), BeBe Winans, and Ricky Skaggs. Also, the song \"Maria\" was co-written by Chapman's wife.\n\nAll tracks written by Steven Curtis Chapman, except where noted.\n\nMusicians\n\nProduction\n"}
{"id": "2189595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189595", "title": "Stapleton Road railway station", "text": "Stapleton Road railway station\n\nStapleton Road railway station is on the Severn Beach Line and Cross Country Route, serving the inner-city district of Easton in Bristol, England. It is from . Its three letter station code is SRD. the station has two platforms, four running lines and minimal facilities. It is managed by Great Western Railway, the seventh company to be responsible for the station, and the third franchise since privatisation in 1997. They provide all train services at the station, the standard service being a train every 40 minutes along the Severn Beach Line, an hourly service to , and another hourly service to .\n\nThe station was opened in 1863 by the Bristol and South Wales Union Railway, with a single track and platform. The line was doubled in 1874 when the Clifton Extension Railway opened, then expanded to four tracks and platforms in 1888. There were buildings on all platforms and a goods yard to the north. Stapleton Road became one of Bristol's busiest stations, but service levels reduced significantly in the 1960s when reversing trains at Bristol Temple Meads became common. The goods facilities were closed in 1965, staff were withdrawn in 1967 and the line was reduced to two tracks in 1984.\n\nIn 2018, two additional running lines were added to increase capacity as part of the 21st-century modernisation of the Great Western Main Line. The line was also due to be electrified, but this has now been deferred until the next control period, which runs from 2019 to 2024.\n\nStapleton Road railway station is in the Easton area of Bristol. The surrounding area is primarily residential, with the M32 motorway to the north of the station, and an industrial and commercial area north of that. The station is named after the A432 Stapleton Road just north of the station. The station can be accessed by Belmont Street to the west, an unnamed access road to the east, or by a set of steps from Stapleton Road. Access to the southbound platform is via a slope of gradient greater than 1 in 12. The station is on the Cross Country Route between and , and on the Severn Beach Line from Bristol Temple Meads to . It is from Bristol Temple Meads. Directly to the north of the station is a bridge over the A432, then a bridge over the M32, then Narroways Hill Junction, where the Severn Beach Line diverges from the Cross Country Route. The next station north along the Cross Country Route is , the next station north along the Severn Beach Line is , and the next station south is .\n\nThe station is on an alignment of 150 degrees, curving towards the east. There are two active platforms: the western platform, platform 1, serves northbound trains; the eastern platform, platform 2, serves southbound trains. Platform 1 is in length, and platform 2 , but both have the southern fenced off. The southern end of the platforms bridge the residential street St Mark's Road. Platform 2 is part of an \"island\" platform, the other face of which served the northbound \"up fast\" line through the station, which was removed in 1984 along with the southbound \"down fast\" and fourth platform which served it. Access between the platforms is via an open, stepped footbridge.\n\n, facilities at the station are minimal – there is a metal and glass shelter and a row of seats on the northbound platform. The station is completely unstaffed, and there are no facilities for buying tickets. There are customer help points, giving next train information for both platforms. There is no car park or taxi rank, and the nearest bus stop is away on the A432 Stapleton Road. There are eight bicycle stands on the platform. A mural depicting local life and history is painted on the wall of platform 1.\n\nThe line through Stapleton Road has a speed limit of northbound and southbound. The loading gauge is W8, and the line handles over 15 million train tonnes per year.\n\nServices at Stapleton Road are operated by Great Western Railway. , Monday to Friday, three trains every two hours run along the Severn Beach Line from to via , with one extended to and . Most services start at Bristol, but one evening service to Avonmouth begins at . On Saturdays there is a similar level of service, but more trains continue to Severn Beach. Sunday sees a roughly hourly service to and from Bristol, with only two services extending to Severn Beach, except during the May–September timetable period, when all services are extended. The first and last Sunday trains towards Bristol are extended to via , and there are similar workings in the other direction. Most trains call at all stations, but some services omit .\n\nSouthbound services from and to and call at Stapleton road, with one train per hour. Hourly northbound services from to also call, as do some peak northbound services from to and two evening southbound services from Cardiff to Bristol. All trains southbound call at Bristol Temple Meads, although this requires Gloucester-Westbury trains to reverse. CrossCountry trains pass Stapleton Road non-stop throughout the day, operating two trains per hour each direction between the South West, Bristol, Manchester and Scotland.\n\nServices from Stapleton Road are operated using a mix of Sprinter, Super Sprinter, Express Sprinter and Turbo diesel multiple units. Until 2012, Pacer units were a regular sight, but these have mostly been moved south to work in Devon and Cornwall following a cascade of Class 150/1 units from London Midland and London Overground.\n\nThe standard journey time to Bristol Temple Meads is 7 minutes, to Bristol Parkway 13 minutes, and to Avonmouth 23 minutes.\n\nStapleton Road opened on 8 September 1863 when services began on the Bristol and South Wales Union Railway (BSWUR), which ran from to , north of Bristol on the banks of the River Severn. At New Passage, passengers were transferred to a ferry to cross the Severn to continue on into Wales. The line, engineered by Isambard Kingdom Brunel, was built as single-track broad gauge, with a platform on the west side of the track. The BSWUR was amalgamated with the Great Western Railway, which had from the beginning operated all BSWUR services, in 1868; and in 1873 the line was converted to standard gauge. In 1874, the Clifton Extension Railway opened, connecting the Bristol Port Railway and Pier to the Great Western Railway at Narroways Hill Junction, north of Stapleton Road. To cope with the expected increase in traffic, the line was doubled, and a second platform was added to the east of the two tracks. Two more tracks were added in 1888, giving a layout of two sets of two tracks, with platforms on the outside and on an island in the middle. Trains to and from and used the western platforms while trains to and from South Wales used the eastern platforms. There were buildings on all the platforms, with the booking office on the eastern outer platform, at the head of the access road. The refreshment room was on the island platform, and a covered footbridge connected the platforms. There was a yard to the north of the station, on the other side of Stapleton Road, which handled goods traffic including coal and other minerals.\nStapleton Road became one of Bristol's busiest stations. The opening of the Clifton Extension Railway meant that Stapleton Road became a junction station, and when the Severn Tunnel was opened in 1886, replacing the ferry from New Passage, trains from London to Wales began to run via Bristol instead of . Many would call at Stapleton Road instead of Bristol Temple Meads because this avoided having to run the locomotive around the train. In 1886, the daily Great Western service along the Clifton Extension Railway was 6 trains each way between Avonmouth and Temple Meads, 24 trains from Clifton Down to Temple Meads and 26 the other direction. By 1910 there were 17 services daily from Avonmouth to Temple Meads and 15 the other way, a further 20 trains each day operating between Clifton Down and Temple Meads. For many passengers on the Clifton Extension Railway, Stapleton Road was where they would change for services to South Wales and the South Coast of England, and by 1912 the station name boards showed \"Stapleton Road Junction for Clifton and Avonmouth\", although the station was never officially renamed. But by this time the number of services to Wales had decreased owing to the opening of the \"Badminton Line\" from Wootton Bassett to , now part of the South Wales Main Line, which allowed trains from London to avoid central Bristol entirely. From 1924, many trains to Avonmouth were extended to , a growing seaside resort, and some on to , then back to Temple Meads via . Circular trips via were also common, and by 1930 a total of 350 trains would pass the station each day. The station was also used by excursion trains, and by trains of evacuees during the Second World War. By 1947, just before the start of the British Rail era, there were 33 daily services each direction between Avonmouth and Temple Meads, and 18 on Sundays. The station also saw the arrival of Prime Minister David Lloyd George in the 1920s.\nWhen the railways were nationalised in 1948, Stapleton Road came under the aegis of the Western Region of British Railways. A gradual decline of services at Stapleton Road began. While as late as 1963 name boards at the station read \"Bristol Stapleton Road\", trains between South Wales and the South Coast were eventually re-routed via Bristol Temple Meads – the introduction of diesel multiple units making it easier for the trains to reverse – and no longer called at Stapleton Road. Passenger numbers along the Clifton Extension Railway, now known as the Severn Beach Line, also dropped, and in 1963 the Beeching report suggested that all services along the line be withdrawn. In the end, services continued to Severn Beach but were discontinued via Henbury and Pilning. The goods yard was closed on 29 November 1965, and staff were withdrawn from the station from 17 July 1967 as a cost-saving measure. In 1975 the M32 motorway was opened north of the station, passing through the southern end of the goods yard. The eastern tracks were removed in 1984, although the bridge which carried the line across the A432 and M32 was left intact. The remaining station buildings were demolished at the same time, the buildings on the island platform having already been removed by 1958. Plans to use the disused trackbed as part of a light rail scheme linking the city centre to the northern suburbs were formed in the late 1990s, with the aim of an operational scheme by 2008, but the plans had been shelved by 2004. It was suggested in 2008 that the trackbed could be used as a cycle path to join together communities which had been separated by the construction of the M32 motorway, however this was dropped due to Network Rail asserting that the trackbed might be necessary for future rail expansion.\nBritish Rail was split into business-led sectors in the 1980s, at which time operations at Stapleton Road passed to Regional Railways. All trains along the Severn Beach Line ran to Severn Beach, but the service pattern was irregular. This was changed in the mid-1990s, with a more frequent service to Avonmouth but very few on to Severn Beach and no Sunday services. Services at Stapleton Road were boosted due to the proximity of Eastville Stadium, but this use ended in 1986 when Bristol Rovers F.C. moved to Twerton Park in Bath.\n\nWhen the railway was privatised in 1997, local services were franchised to Wales & West, which was succeeded by Wessex Trains, an arm of National Express, in 2001. The station was brightened in 1999 when a mural illustrating local life was painted on the wall of the western platform by Bill Guilding. Services along the Severn Beach Line were increased to 10 per day in each direction by 2005, with Bristol City Council providing a subsidy to Wessex Trains. The Wessex franchise was amalgamated with the Great Western franchise into the Greater Western franchise from 2006, and responsibility passed to First Great Western, a subsidiary company of FirstGroup, rebranded in 2015 as Great Western Railway. A minimum service requirement was written into the franchise agreement, ensuring an hourly service along the Severn Beach Line. Passenger traffic increased significantly, and in 2010, Sunday services to Severn Beach were restored.\nBy 2005, the disused eastern trackbed was filled with rubble, brambles and weeds, and the station had acquired a bad reputation due to muggings and the use of illegal drugs on the station premises. A community garden project, Eastside Roots, was set up in the disused trackbed by local permaculture enthusiast Nick Ward in 2009. It was built using sustainable materials, including bricks dug out during the construction of the Cabot Circus shopping centre. The project led to a general improvement of the station ambience, and residents were more willing to use it. The footbridge was replaced in 2013 to allow for electrification of the line, but the new, higher, bridge angered local residents who felt it infringed on their privacy.\n\nFirst Great Western declined a contractual option to continue the Greater Western passenger franchise beyond 2013, citing a desire for a longer-term contract due to the impending upgrade to the Great Western Main Line. The franchise was put out to tender, but the process was halted and later scrapped owing to the fallout from the collapse of the InterCity West Coast franchise competition. A two-year franchise extension until September 2015 was agreed in October 2013, and subsequently extended until March 2019.\n\nThe line through Stapleton Road was due to have been electrified by 2017 as part of the Great Western Main Line electrification project, however this has been postponed indefinitely. The Cross Country Route, the Severn Beach Line and the Heart of Wessex Line were not set to be electrified, therefore services at Stapleton Road would still have been provided by diesel trains, although \"Sprinter\" units are expected to be replaced by and \"Turbo\" units. The group Friends of Suburban Bristol Railways supports the electrification continuing beyond the main lines, as does MP for Weston-super-Mare John Penrose. The electrification scheme also includes the four-tracking of Filton Bank, including the reinstatement of the disused trackbed at Stapleton Road, to allow more services between Parkway and Bristol Temple Meads and separate fast inter-city services from local stopping services. The two eastern platforms at Stapleton Road will be demolished to allow trains to run faster, although it has been suggested that they be kept for use in case of service disruptions.\n\nStapleton Road is on the / corridor, one of the main axes of the Greater Bristol Metro, a rail transport plan, which aims to enhance transport capacity in the Bristol area, including half-hourly services along the Severn Beach Line. The scheme could see the reopening of the Henbury Loop Line to passengers, with the possibility of services from Bristol Temple Meads to Bristol Parkway via and . Plans for a loop were rejected by the West of England Joint Transport Board, but Bristol City Councillors voted to send the decision back to the board for further discussion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189598", "title": "Dead Man's Chest", "text": "Dead Man's Chest\n\n\"Dead Man's Chest\" (also known as \"Fifteen Men On The Dead Man's Chest\" or \"Derelict\") is a fictional sea song, originally from Robert Louis Stevenson's novel \"Treasure Island\" (1883). It was expanded in a poem, titled \"Derelict\" by Young E. Allison, published in the \"Louisville Courier-Journal\" in 1891. It has since been used in many later works of art in various forms.\n\nStevenson found the name \"Dead Man's Chest\" among a list of Virgin Island names in a book by Charles Kingsley, possibly in reference to the Dead Chest Island off Peter Island in the British Virgin Islands. As Stevenson once said, \"\"Treasure Island\" came out of Kingsley's \"At Last: A Christmas in the West Indies\" (1871); where I got the 'Dead Man's Chest'—that was the seed.\" That is, Stevenson saw the three words \"Dead Man's Chest\" in Kingsley's book among a list of names, germinating in Stevenson's mind it was the \"seed\", which then grew into the novel.\n\nIn \"Treasure Island\" Stevenson only wrote the chorus, leaving the remainder of the song unwritten, and to the reader's imagination:\n\nAnother lyric in the novel, near its end:\n\nStevenson does not make clear if this lyric is part of Dead Man's Chest or another fictional song entirely. Regardless, the words of the lyric help advance the storyline.\n\nOther variations of the poem were printed in the late 19th and early 20th centuries that claimed to be folklore, but in reality were nothing more than new extensions from Stevenson's original. One appeared in the Chicago \"Times-Herald\" named \"Stevenson's Sailor Song\" by an anonymous author, who claimed to hear it being sung on the \"wharfs of Chicago\" by a group of \"old time sailors\", who when asked where they learned it, replied 'We never learned it nowhere, we allers knowed it.' The story was meant as a hoax but some took it seriously. Another appeared in print as \"Billy Bones's Fancy\", supposedly pieced together from various \"fragments\", suggesting an antiquated origin, but in fact it was an adaptation of the \"Times-Herald\" piece. As Stevenson's stepson Osbourne once said, \"'Fifteen-Men' was wholly original with Stevenson,\" and as Stevenson himself said, the book \"At Last\" by Kingsley was \"the seed\" of his invention.\nThe song has been widely used in the arts for over a century. In 1901 music was added to the lyrics of \"Derelict\" by Henry Waller for a Broadway rendition of \"Treasure Island\". In the 1954 film \"Return to Treasure Island\", starring Robert Newton, the song was sung in the opening credits, and instrumentally as the thematic background to the action. In the 1959 television series \"The Adventures of Long John Silver\"—again starring Robert Newton—it was, although only in instrumental version, the series' theme song played both at the beginning and the end of each episode. In 1967, writers for the Walt Disney film company found inspiration in \"Derelict\" for the sea-song \"Yo Ho (A Pirate's Life for Me)\", which was played in the \"Pirates of the Caribbean\" theme ride at Disneyland. Astrid Lindgren expanded Stevenson's couplet differently in the script for the 1969 \"Pippi Longstocking\" TV series. Alan Moore made a play on the song in the 1986 graphic novel \"Watchmen\"; the chapter is called \"One man on fifteen dead men's chests.\" In 1993, the contemporary \"pirate\" vocal group, The Jolly Rogers, recorded Mark Stahl's arrangement of Young E. Allison's lyrics, re-released in 1997 on their CD titled \"Pirate Gold\". A rendition was recorded by the steampunk band Abney Park as \"The Derelict\". In the second \"Pirates of the Caribbean\" film, Joshamee Gibbs sang the original version from \"Treasure Island\"—a fourth wall joke, as the film was called \"\".\n\nIn German, the song is sometimes known as \"17 Mann auf des toten Manns Kiste\", so it mentions two more men, or sometimes as \"13 Mann\", mentioning two fewer, most prominently in Michael Ende's Jim Knopf stories. Likewise, in the Hungarian translation of \"Treasure Island\", the phrase is \"seven (men) on a dead man's chest\"; apparently these numbers provided the closest effect to the original regarding rhyme and syllables in English.\n\nMany authors have written prequels and sequels to \"Treasure Island\". One such example is R. F. Delderfield's \"The Adventures of Ben Gunn\", in which Ben tells Jim Hawkins that the song is a reference to \"an island of the Leewards\" which \"was little more than a long, high rock, shaped like a coffin\" which was nicknamed \"Dead Man's Chest\". In Delderfield's story, the song is about 15 pirates who shipwrecked there who had salvaged many barrels of rum but almost no food, and were \"all raving drunk\" upon their rescue.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189602", "title": "For the Sake of the Call", "text": "For the Sake of the Call\n\nFor the Sake of the Call is the fourth album released by contemporary Christian music singer Steven Curtis Chapman. The album was released in 1990 by Sparrow Records.\n\nIt won the 1992 Grammy Award for Best Pop/Contemporary Gospel Album and the Gospel Music Association award as Pop/Contemporary Album of the Year and was RIAA-certified as Gold on December 6, 1994.\n\nAll songs written by Steven Curtis Chapman, except where noted.\n\nProduction\n"}
{"id": "2189607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189607", "title": "Voyageurs National Park Association", "text": "Voyageurs National Park Association\n\nVoyageurs National Park Association is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization located in Minneapolis, Minnesota that works to protect and promote the natural, recreational, and historic resources of Voyageurs National Park.\n\nVoyageurs National Park Association was established on May 5, 1965 by a group of citizens working to protect lands in the Rainy, Kabetogama, Namakan, and Sand Point Lakes region of northern Minnesota. Their goal was to establish a national park that would recognize the important sociocultural history of the region and preserve the unique natural and scenic treasures it contained for the enjoyment of all Americans for generations to come. The founders and early directors of Voyageurs National Park Association included former Minnesota Governor Elmer L. Andersen, Judge Ed Chapman, Wayne Judy, Martin Kellogg, Sigurd F. Olson, Wallace Dayton, and Wheelock Whitney. These individuals and others led the organization in its efforts to lobby local, state, and federal legislators and to inform and educate the public about the importance and reasons for creating the park.\n\nAs a result of the work of Voyageurs National Park Association and many other groups and individuals, Voyageurs National Park was officially created in 1975. Since then, Voyageurs National Park Association has continued as a citizens group working to promote and protect Voyageurs National Park, and as an informal partner with the National Park Service in the planning and development of the park.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189616", "title": "More to This Life", "text": "More to This Life\n\nMore to This Life is the third album released by American contemporary Christian music singer and songwriter Steven Curtis Chapman. It was released in 1989 by Sparrow Records.\n\nAll songs written by Steven Curtis Chapman, except where noted.\n\nMusicians\n\nProduction\n\nStudios\n"}
{"id": "2189618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189618", "title": "Lake Shala", "text": "Lake Shala\n\nLake Shala (also spelled Shalla) is an alkaline lake located in the Ethiopian Rift Valley, in the Abijatta-Shalla National Park.\n\nThe lake is 28 kilometers long and 12 wide, with a surface area of 329 square kilometers. It has a maximum depth of 266 meters and is at an elevation of 1,558 meters. As such, it is the deepest of Ethiopia's Rift Valley lakes.\n\nKnown for the sulphur springs on the lake bed, its islands are inhabited by great white pelicans, one being known as Pelican Island.\n\nLake Shala is surrounded by hot springs filled with boiling water, and the earth surrounding the lake is filled with cracks due to erosion and earthquakes. Due to steam rising from the boiling water in the springs, the atmosphere around the lake is relatively foggy. At the southern end of the lake, there are various species of flamingoes and birds that frequent the lake.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189622", "title": "M. Jeff Thompson", "text": "M. Jeff Thompson\n\nBrigadier-General M. Jeff Thompson (January 22, 1826 – September 5, 1876), nicknamed \"Swamp Fox,\" was a senior officer of the Missouri State Guard who commanded cavalry in the Trans-Mississippi Theater of the American Civil War. The (ca. 1862) was named after him.\n\nMeriwether Jefferson Thompson was born in Jefferson County, Virginia (present-day West Virginia), into a family with a strong military tradition on both sides. He received basic training in military tactics in Charleston, South Carolina, but was not appointed to a military academy. Following his education, he found employment as a store clerk in a few Virginia and Pennsylvania towns. He moved to Liberty, Missouri, in 1847 and St. Joseph the following year, beginning as a store clerk before taking up surveying and serving as the city engineer. He later supervised the construction of the western branch of the Hannibal & St. Joseph Railroad. He married Emma Catherine Hays in 1848. He served as the seventh Mayor of St. Joseph, Missouri from 1857–1860. He presided over the ceremony inaugurating the first ride of the Pony Express on April 3, 1860. He gained national attention in May, 1861, when he cut down a United States flag from the St. Joseph Post Office flag pole and threw it down to an angry crowd of southern sympathizers who shredded it to pieces.\n\nThompson was a lieutenant-colonel in the Missouri state militia at the outbreak of the Civil War. On July 25, 1861, he was appointed brigadier-general of the 1st Division, Missouri State Guard. He commanded the First Military District of Missouri, which covered the swampy southeastern quarter of the state from St. Louis to the Mississippi River. Thompson's battalion soon became known as the \"Swamp Rats\" for their exploits. He gained renown as the \"Swamp Fox of the Confederacy.\" Although Thompson frequently petitioned for the Confederate rank of brigadier-general it was never granted. His brigadier rank came from his Missouri State Guard service.\n\nWhen Union Major-General John C. Fremont issued an emancipation proclamation purporting to free the slaves in Missouri, Thompson declared a counter-proclamation and his force of 3,000 soldiers began raiding Union positions near the border in October. On October 15, 1861, Thompson led a cavalry attack on the Iron Mountain Railroad bridge over the Big River near Blackwell in Jefferson County. After successfully burning the bridge, Thompson retreated to join his infantry in Fredericktown. Soon afterwards, he was defeated at the Battle of Fredericktown and withdrew, leaving southeastern Missouri in Union control.\n\nAfter briefly commanding rams in the Confederate riverine fleet in 1862, Thompson was reassigned to the Trans-Mississippi region. There, he engaged in a number of battles before returning to Arkansas in 1863 to accompany Gen. John S. Marmaduke on his raid into Missouri. Thompson was captured in August in Arkansas, and spent time in St. Louis' Gratiot Military Prison, as well as at the Fort Delaware and Johnson's Island prisoner-of-war camps (\"Poor old Jeff, how my heart went out to him; he a prisoner and his devoted wife in a madhouse\", Major Lamar Fontaine wrote later).\n\nEventually, he was exchanged in 1864 for a Union general. Later that year, Thompson participated in Major-General Sterling Price's Missouri expedition, taking command of \"Jo\" Shelby's famed \"Iron Brigade\" when Shelby became division commander. He served competently in this role.\n\nIn March 1865, Thompson was appointed commander of the Northern Sub-District of Arkansas. He agreed to surrender his command at Chalk Bluff, Arkansas on May 11, 1865, and agreed to have his men assemble at Wittsburg and Jacksonport, Arkansas to lay down their arms and receive their paroles. Thompson's command was widely dispersed throughout northeast Arkansas, more for reasons of available forage than anything else. About a third of his men refused to surrender. Shelby's Missouri Brigade, along with elements of Green's and Jackman's Missouri brigades, lit out for Mexico. Some Missouri units disbanded rather than surrender their colors. Many men simply went home.\n\nWhile most the men on the Jacksonport parole lists actually served in the unit with which they surrendered, some men were attached themselves to various regiments solely for the purpose of surrendering. A few probably never saw any service except marching with their relatives and neighbors to Jacksonport to receive the paroles, which were thought to provide the former confederates with some degree of protection from later arrest or capture.\n\nAfter the American Civil War, Thompson moved to New Orleans, where he returned to civil engineering. He designed a program for improving the Louisiana swamps, a job that eventually destroyed his health. He returned to St. Joseph, Missouri in 1876 where he succumbed to tuberculosis. He is buried in Mount Mora Cemetery in St. Joseph, Missouri.\n\nIn early 1862 at New Orleans, a side-wheel river steamer was converted to a \"Cottonclad\" ram and named after Thompson. The CSS \"General M. Jeff. Thompson\" was sent up the Mississippi that April to join the River Defense Fleet in Tennessee waters, seeing its first action at Plum Point Bend. On June the 6th, after being set afire by gunfire at Memphis, the \"General M. Jeff. Thompson\" ran aground and soon blew up.\n\n\n\nOfficial\nOther\n"}
{"id": "2189640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189640", "title": "Real Life Conversations", "text": "Real Life Conversations\n\nReal Life Conversations is the second album by American contemporary Christian music singer and songwriter Steven Curtis Chapman. The album was released in 1988 by Sparrow Records and produced by Phil Naish.\n\nThis second album features a harder and edgier sound that steers more toward light rock music than his previous album.\n\nAll songs written by Steven Curtis Chapman, except where noted.\n\nMusicians\n\n\nProduction\n"}
{"id": "2189642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189642", "title": "Seasonal energy efficiency ratio", "text": "Seasonal energy efficiency ratio\n\nThe efficiency of air conditioners is often rated by the seasonal energy efficiency ratio (SEER) which is defined by the Air Conditioning, Heating, and Refrigeration Institute in its 2008 standard AHRI 210/240, \"Performance Rating of Unitary Air-Conditioning and Air-Source Heat Pump Equipment\".<ref name=\"ahri210/240\"></ref> A similar standard is the European seasonal energy efficiency ratio (ESEER).\n\nThe SEER rating of a unit is the cooling output during a typical cooling-season divided by the total electric energy input during the same period. The higher the unit's SEER rating the more energy efficient it is. In the U.S., the SEER is the ratio of cooling in British thermal unit (BTU) to the energy consumed in watt-hours. The coefficient of performance (COP), a more universal unit-less measure of efficiency, is discussed in the following section.\n\nFor example, consider a 5000 BTU/h (1465 watts cooling capacity) air-conditioning unit, with a SEER of 10 BTU/W·h, operating for a total of 1000 hours during an annual cooling season (e.g., 8 hours per day for 125 days).\n\nThe annual total cooling output would be:\n\nWith a SEER of 10 BTU/W·h, the annual electrical energy usage would be about:\n\nThe average power usage may also be calculated more simply by:\n\nIf your electricity cost is 20¢/kW·h, then your cost per operating hour is:\n\nThe energy efficiency ratio (EER) of a particular cooling device is the ratio of \"output\" cooling energy (in BTU/hr) to \"input\" electrical energy (in Watts) at a given operating point. EER is generally calculated using a 95 °F outside temp and an inside (actually return air) temp of 80 °F and 50% relative humidity.\n\nThe EER is related to the coefficient of performance (COP) commonly used in thermodynamics, with the primary difference being that the COP of a cooling device is unit-less, because the numerator and denominator are expressed in the same units. The EER uses mixed units, so it doesn't have an immediate physical sense and is obtained by multiplying the COP (or EER) by the conversion factor from BTU/h to Watts: EER = 3.41214 × COP (see British thermal unit).\n\nThe seasonal energy efficiency ratio (SEER) is also the COP (or EER) expressed in BTU/hr/W, but instead of being evaluated at a single operating condition, it represents the expected overall performance for a typical year's weather in a given location. The SEER is thus calculated with the same indoor temperature, but over a range of outside temperatures from to , with a certain specified percentage of time in each of 8 bins spanning 5 °F (2.8 °C). There is no allowance for different climates in this rating, which is intended to give an indication of how the EER is affected by a range of outside temperatures over the course of a cooling season.\n\nTypical EER for residential central cooling units = 0.875 × SEER. SEER is a higher value than EER for the same equipment.\n\nA more detailed method for converting SEER to EER uses this formula: \n\nA SEER of 13 is approximately equivalent to an EER of 11, and a COP of 3.2, which means that 3.2 units of heat are removed from indoors per unit of energy used to run the air conditioner.\n\nThe SEER and EER of an air conditioner are limited by the laws of thermodynamics. The refrigeration process with the maximum possible efficiency is the Carnot cycle. The COP of an air conditioner using the Carnot cycle is:\n\nwhere formula_2 is the indoor temperature and formula_3 is the outdoor temperature. Both temperatures must be measured using a thermodynamic temperature scale based at absolute zero such as Kelvin or Rankine. The EER is calculated by multiplying the COP by 3.412 BTU/W⋅h as described above:\n\nAssuming an outdoor temperature of and an indoor temperature of , the above equation gives (when temperatures are converted to Kelvin or Rankine) a COP of 36, or an EER of 120. This is about 10 times more efficient than a typical home air conditioner available today.\n\nThe maximum EER decreases as the difference between the inside and outside air temperature increases, and vice versa. In a desert climate where the outdoor temperature is , the maximum COP drops to 13, or an EER of 46 (for an indoor temperature of ).\n\nThe maximum SEER can be calculated by averaging the maximum EER over the range of expected temperatures for the season.\n\nSEER rating reflects overall system efficiency on a seasonal basis and EER reflects the system's energy efficiency at one specific operating condition. Both ratings are useful when choosing products, but the same rating must be used for comparisons.\n\nSubstantial energy savings can be obtained from more efficient systems. For example, by upgrading from SEER 9 to SEER 13, the power consumption is reduced by 30% (equal to 1 − 9/13). It is claimed that this can result in an energy savings valued at up to $300 per year depending on the usage rate and the cost of electricity.\n\nWith existing units that are still functional and well-maintained, when the time value of money is considered, retaining existing units rather than proactively replacing them may be the most cost effective. However, the efficiency of air conditioners can degrade significantly over time.\n\nBut when either replacing equipment, or specifying new installations, a variety of SEERs are available. For most applications, the minimum or near-minimum SEER units are most cost effective, but the longer the cooling seasons, the higher the electricity costs, and the longer the purchasers will own the systems, the more that incrementally higher SEER units are justified. Residential split-system AC units of SEER 20 or more are now available. The higher SEER units typically have larger coils and multiple compressors, with some also having variable refrigerant flow and variable supply air flow. \n\nIn 1987 legislation taking effect in 1992 was passed requiring a minimum SEER rating of 10. It is rare to see systems rated below SEER 9 in the United States because aging, existing units are being replaced with new, higher efficiency units.\n\nBeginning in January 2006 a minimum SEER 13 was required. The United States requires that residential systems manufactured after 2005 have a minimum SEER rating of 13. ENERGY STAR qualified Central Air Conditioners must have a SEER of at least 14.5. Window units are exempt from this law so their SEERs are still around 10.\n\nIn 2011 the US Department of Energy (DOE) revised energy conservation rules to impose elevated minimum standards and regional standards for residential HVAC systems. The regional approach recognizes the differences in cost-optimization resulting from regional climate differences. For example, there is little cost benefit in having a very high SEER air conditioning unit in Maine, a state in the northeast US.\n\nStarting January 1, 2015, split-system central air conditioners installed in the Southeastern Region of the United States of America must be at least 14 SEER. The Southeastern Region includes Alabama, Arkansas, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, and Virginia. Similarly, split-system central air conditioners installed in the Southwestern Region must be a minimum 14 SEER and 12.2 EER beginning on January 1, 2015. The Southwestern Region consists of Arizona, California, Nevada, and New Mexico. Split-system central air conditioners installed in all other states outside the Southeastern and Southwestern regions must continue to be a minimum of 13 SEER, which is the current national requirement.\n\nThere have been many new advances in efficient technology over the past 10 years which have enabled manufacturers to increase their SEER ratings dramatically in order to stay above the required minimums set by the United States department of energy.\n\nElectric power is usually measured in kilowatts (kW). Electric energy is usually measured in kilowatt-hours (kWh). For example, if an electric load that draws 1.5 kW of electric power is operated for 8 hours, it uses 12 kWh of electric energy. In the United States, a residential electric customer is charged based on the amount of electric energy one uses. On the customer bill, the electric utility states the amount of electric energy, in kilowatt-hours (kWh), that the customer used since the last bill, and the cost of the energy per kilowatt-hour (kWh).\n\nAir conditioner sizes are often given as \"tons\" of cooling, where 1 ton of cooling equals . 1 ton of cooling equals the amount of power that needs to be applied continuously, over a 24-hour period, to melt 1 ton of ice. The annual cost of electric energy consumed by a (6 ton) air conditioning unit, operating for 1000 hours per year, with a SEER rating of 10, and an electric energy cost of $0.12 per kilowatt-hour (kWh) is:\n\nExample 1:\n\nExample 2. A residence near Chicago has an air conditioner with a cooling capacity of 4 tons and an SEER rating of 10. The unit is operated 120 days each year for 8 hours per day (960 hours per year), and the electric energy cost is $0.10 per kilowatt-hour. What is the annual cost of the electric energy required to operate the air conditioner? First, we convert tons of cooling to BTU/h:\n\nThe annual cost of the electric energy is:\n\nToday there are mini-split (ductless) air conditioner units available with SEER ratings up to 42. During the 2014 AHR Expo, Mitsubishi unveiled a new mini-split ductless AC unit with a SEER rating of 30.5. GREE also released a 30.5 SEER rating mini split in 2015 as well. Carrier launched a 42 SEER ductless air conditioner during 2018 Consumer electronic Show (CES),held in Las Vegas .Carrier is part of UTC Climate, Controls & Security, a unit of United Technologies Corp.Traditional AC systems with ducts have maximum SEER ratings slightly below these levels. Also, practically, central systems will have an achieved energy efficiency ratio 10–20% lower than the nameplate rating due to the duct-related losses.\n\nAdditionally, there are ground-source residential AC units with SEER ratings up to 75. However, ground source heat pump effective efficiency is reliant on the temperature of the ground or water source used. Hot climates have a much higher ground or surface water temperature than cold climates and therefore will not be able to achieve such efficiencies. Moreover, the ARI rating scheme for ground source heat pumps allows them to largely ignore required pump power in their ratings, making the achievable SEER values often practically lower than the highest efficiency air-source equipment—particularly for air cooling. There are a variety of technologies that will allow SEER and EER ratings to increase further in the near future. Some of these technologies include rotary compressors, inverters, DC brushless motors, variable-speed drives and integrated systems.\n\nA refrigeration cycle can be operated as a heat pump to move heat from outdoors into a warmer house. A heat pump with a higher SEER rating for cooling mode would also usually be more efficient in heating mode, rated using HSPF. When operated in heating mode, a heat pump is typically more efficient than an electrical resistance heater. This is because a space heater can convert only the input electrical energy directly to output heat energy, while a heat pump also transfers heat from outdoors. In heating mode, the coefficient of performance is the ratio of heat provided to the energy used by the unit. An ideal resistance heater converting 100% of its input electricity to output heat would have COP = 1, equivalent to a 3.4 EER. The heat pump becomes less efficient as the outside temperature decreases, and its performance may become comparable to a resistance heater. For a heat pump with the minimum 13 SEER cooling efficiency, this is typically below .\n\nLower temperatures may cause a heat pump to operate below the efficiency of a resistance heater, so conventional heat pumps often include heater coils or auxiliary heating from LP or natural gas to prevent low efficiency operation of the refrigeration cycle. \"Cold climate\" heat pumps are designed to optimize efficiency below . In the case of cold climates, water or ground source heat pumps are the most efficient solution. They use the relatively constant temperature of ground water or of water in a large buried loop to moderate the temperature differences in summer and winter and improve performance year round. The heat pump cycle is reversed in the summer to act as an air conditioner\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189647", "title": "List of nuclear weapons tests", "text": "List of nuclear weapons tests\n\nNuclear weapons testing is the act of experimentally and deliberately firing one or more nuclear devices in a controlled manner pursuant to a military, scientific or technological goal. This has been done on test sites on land or waters owned, controlled or leased from the owners by one of the eight nuclear nations: the United States, the Soviet Union, United Kingdom, France, China, India, Pakistan or the North Korea, or has been done on or over ocean sites far from territorial waters. There have been 2,121 tests done since the first in July of 1945, involving 2,476 nuclear devices. As of 1993, worldwide, 520 atmospheric nuclear explosions (including 8 underwater) have been conducted with a total yield of 545 megaton (Mt): 217 Mt from pure fission and 328 Mt from bombs using fusion, while the estimated number of underground nuclear tests conducted in the period from 1957 to 1992 is 1,352 explosions with a total yield of 90 Mt.\n\nVery few unknown tests are suspected at this time, the Vela Incident being the most prominent. Israel is the only country suspected of having nuclear weapons but not known to have ever tested any.\n\nThe following are considered nuclear tests:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNot included as nuclear tests:\n\n\n\nThe table in this section summarizes all worldwide nuclear testing (including the two bombs dropped in combat which were not tests). The country names are links to summary articles for each country, which may in turn be used to drill down to test series articles which contain details on every known nuclear explosion and test. The notes attached to various table cells detail how the numbers therein are arrived at. \n\nIn the following subsections, a selection of significant tests (by no means exhaustive) is listed, representative of the testing effort in each nuclear country.\n\nThe standard \"official\" list of tests for American devices is arguably the United States Department of Energy DoE-209 document. The United States conducted around 1,054 nuclear tests (by official count) between 1945 and 1992, including 216 atmospheric, underwater, and space tests. Some significant tests conducted by the United States include:\n\n\nAfter the fall of the USSR, the American government (as a member of the International Consortium \"International Science and Technology Center\") hired a number of top scientists in Sarov (aka Arzamas-16, the Soviet equivalent of Los Alamos and thus sometimes called \"Los Arzamas\") to draft a number of documents about the history of the Soviet atomic program. One of the documents was the definitive list of Soviet nuclear tests. Most of the tests have no code names, unlike the American tests, so they are known by their test numbers from this document. Some list compilers have detected discrepancies in that list; one device was abandoned in its cove in a tunnel in Semipalatinsk when the Soviets abandoned Kazakhstan, and one list lists 13 other tests which apparently failed to provide any yield. The source for that was the well respected \"Russian Strategic Nuclear Forces\" which confirms 11 of the 13; those 11 are in the Wikipedia lists.\n\nThe Soviet Union conducted 715 nuclear tests (by the official count) between 1949 and 1990, including 219 atmospheric, underwater, and space tests. Most of them took place at the Semipalatinsk Test Site in Kazakhstan and the Northern Test Site at Novaya Zemlya. Additional industrial tests were conducted at various locations in Russia and Kazakhstan, while a small number of tests were conducted in Ukraine, Uzbekistan, and Turkmenistan.\n\nIn addition, the large-scale military exercise was conducted by Soviet army to explore the possibility of defensive and offensive warfare operations on the nuclear battlefield. The exercise, under code name of \"Snezhok\" (Snowball), involved detonation of a nuclear bomb twice as powerful as the one used in Nagasaki and approximately 45,000 soldiers coming through the epicenter immediately after the blast The exercise was conducted on September 14, 1954, under command of Marshal Georgy Zhukov to the north of Totskoye village in Orenburg Oblast, Russia.\n\nSome significant Soviet tests include:\n\nThe last Soviet test took place on October 24, 1990. After the dissolution of the USSR in 1992, Russia inherited the USSR's nuclear stockpile, while Kazakhstan inherited the Semipalatinsk nuclear test area, as well as the Baikonur Cosmodrome, the Sary Shagan missile/radar test area and three ballistic missile fields. Semipalatinsk included at least the one unexploded device, later blown up with conventional explosives by a combined USA/Kazakh team. No testing has occurred in the former territory of the USSR since its dissolution.\n\nThe United Kingdom has conducted 45 tests (21 in Australian territory, including 9 in mainland South Australia at Maralinga and Emu Field, 3 at Malden Island and 6 at Kiritibati (Christmas Island) in the Line Islands of the central Pacific, and 24 in the U.S. as part of joint test series). Often excluded from British totals are the 31 safety tests of Operation Vixen in Maralinga. British test series include:\n\nLast test: Julin Bristol, November 26, 1991, vertical shaft.\n\nAtmospheric tests involving nuclear material but conventional explosions:\n\nFrance conducted 210 nuclear tests between February 13, 1960 and January 27, 1996. Four were tested at Reggane, French Algeria, 13 at In Ekker, Algeria and the rest at Moruroa and Fangataufa Atolls in French Polynesia. Often skipped in lists are the 5 safety tests at Adrar Tikertine in Algeria.\n\nThe foremost list of Chinese tests compiled by the Federation of American Scientists skips over two Chinese tests listed by others. The People's Republic of China conducted 45 tests (23 atmospheric and 22 underground, all conducted at Lop Nur Nuclear Weapons Test Base, in Malan, Xinjiang)\n\nIndia announced it had conducted a test of a single device in 1974 near Pakistan's eastern border under the codename \"Operation Smiling Buddha\". After 24 years, India publicly announced five further nuclear tests on May 11 and May 13, 1998. The official number of Indian nuclear tests is six, conducted under two different code-names and at different times.\n\nPakistan conducted 6 official tests, under 2 different code names, in the final week of May 1998. From 1983 to 1994, around 24 nuclear cold tests were carried out by Pakistan; these remained unannounced and classified until 2000. In May 1998, Pakistan responded publicly by testing 6 nuclear devices.\n\nOn October 9, 2006, North Korea announced they had conducted a nuclear test in North Hamgyong Province on the northeast coast at 10:36 AM (11:30 AEST). There was a 3.58 magnitude earthquake reported in South Korea. There was a 4.2 magnitude tremor detected 240 miles north of P'yongyang. The low estimates on the yield of the test—potentially less than a kiloton in strength—have led to speculation as to whether it was a fizzle (unsuccessful test), or not a genuine \"nuclear\" test at all.\n\nOn May 25, 2009, North Korea announced having conducted a second nuclear test. A tremor, with magnitude reports ranging from 4.7 to 5.3, was detected at Mantapsan, 233 miles northeast of P'yongyang and within a few kilometers of the 2006 test location. While estimates, as to yield, are still uncertain, with reports ranging from 3 to 20 kilotons, the stronger tremor indicates a significantly larger yield than the 2006 test.\n\nOn 12 February 2013, North Korean state media announced it had conducted an underground nuclear test, its third in seven years. A tremor that exhibited a nuclear bomb signature with an initial magnitude 4.9 (later revised to 5.1) was detected by both Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization Preparatory Commission (CTBTO) and the United States Geological Survey (USGS). The tremor occurred at 11:57 local time (02:57 UTC) and the USGS said the hypocenter of the event was only one kilometer deep. South Korea's defense ministry said the event reading indicated a blast of six to seven kilotons. However, there are some experts who estimate the yield to be up to 15 kt, since the test site's geology is not well understood. In comparison, the atomic (fission) bombs dropped by the \"Enola Gay\" on Hiroshima (Little Boy, a \"gun-type\" atomic bomb) and on Nagasaki by \"Bockscar\" (Fat Man, an \"implosion-type\" atomic bomb) had blast yields of the equivalents of 15 and 21 kilotons of TNT, respectively.\n\nOn January 5, 2015, North Korean TV news anchors announced that they had successfully tested a \"miniaturized atomic bomb\", about 5 miles from the Punggye-ri nuclear site where a test was conducted in 2013.\n\nOn January 6, 2016, North Korea announced that it conducted a successful test of a hydrogen bomb. The seismic event, at a magnitude of 5.1, occurred 19 kilometers (12 miles) east-northeast of Sungjibaegam.\n\nOn September 9, 2016, North Korea announced another successful nuclear weapon test at the Punggye-ri Test Site. This is the first warhead the state claims to be able to mount to a missile or long-range rocket previously tested in June 2016. Estimates for the explosive yield range from 20–30 kt and coincided with a 5.3 magnitude earthquake in the region.\n\nOn September 3, 2017, North Korea successfully detonated its first weapon self-designated as a hydrogen bomb. Initial yield estimates place it at 100 kt. Reports indicate that the test blast caused a magnitude 6.3 earthquake, and possibly resulted in a cave-in at the test site.\n\nThere have been a number of significant alleged/disputed/unacknowledged accounts of countries testing nuclear explosives. Their status is either not certain or entirely disputed by most mainstream experts.\n\nOn April 15, 2020 U.S. officials said China may have conducted low-yield nuclear weapon tests in its Lop Nur test site.\n\n\"Hitlers Bombe\", a book published in German by the historian Rainer Karlsch in 2005, has alleged that there is evidence that Nazi Germany performed some sort of test of a \"nuclear device\" (a hybrid fusion device unlike any modern nuclear weapons), allegedly on 4 March 1945 near the Ohrdruf concentration camp, though the evidence for this has not yet been confirmed, and has been doubted by many historians.\n\nIsrael was alleged by a Bundeswehr report to have made an underground test in 1963. Historian Taysir Nashif reported a zero yield implosion test in 1966. Scientists from Israel participated in the earliest French nuclear tests before DeGaulle cut off further cooperation.\n\nOn September 9, 2004, South Korean media reported that there had been a large explosion at the Chinese/North Korean border. This explosion left a crater visible by satellite and precipitated a large (2-mile diameter) mushroom cloud. The United States and South Korea quickly downplayed this, explaining it away as a forest fire that had nothing to do with the DPRK's nuclear weapons program.\n\nNorth Korea has conducted six nuclear tests, in 2006, 2009, 2013, twice in 2016, and 2017. The 3 September 2017 test, like their January 2016 test, is claimed to be a hydrogen bomb (but may only be a boosted fission weapon rather than an actual staged Teller–Ulam thermonuclear weapon).\n\nBecause Pakistan's nuclear program was conducted under extreme secrecy, it raised concerns in the Soviet Union and India, who suspected that since the 1974 test it was inevitable that Pakistan would further develop its program. The pro-Soviet newspaper, \"The Patriot\", reported that \"Pakistan has exploded a nuclear device in the range of 20 to 50 kilotons\" in 1983. But it was widely dismissed by Western diplomats as it was pointed out that \"The Patriot\" had previously engaged in spreading disinformation on several occasions. In 1983, India and the Soviet Union both investigated secret tests but, due to lack of any scientific data, these statements were widely dismissed.\n\nIn their book, \"The Nuclear Express\", authors Thomas Reed and Danny Stillman also allege that the People's Republic of China allowed Pakistan to detonate a nuclear weapon at its Lop Nur test site in 1990, eight years before Pakistan held its first official weapons test.\n\nHowever, senior scientist Abdul Qadeer Khan strongly rejected the claim in May 1998. According to Khan, due to its sensitivity, no country allows another country to use their test site to explode the devices. Such an agreement only existed between the United States and the United Kingdom since the 1958 US–UK Mutual Defense Agreement which among other things allows Britain access to the American Nevada National Security Site for testing. Dr. Samar Mubarakmand, another senior scientist, also confirmed Dr. Khan's statement and acknowledged that cold tests were carried out, under codename \"Kirana-I\", in a test site which was built by the Corps of Engineers under the guidance of the PAEC.\nAdditionally, the UK conducted nuclear tests in Australia in the 1950s.\n\nThe Yekaterinburg Fireball of November 14, 2014, is alleged by some to have been a nuclear test in space, which would not have been detected by the CTBTO because the CTBTO does not have autonomous ways to monitor space nuclear tests (i.e. satellites) and relies thus on information that member States would accept to provide. The fireball happened a few days before a conference in Yekaterinburg on the theme of air/missile defense. The affirmation, however, is disputed as the Russian Ministry of Emergency Situations claimed it was an \"on-ground\" explosion. \"The Siberian Times\", a local newspaper, noted that \"the light was not accompanied by any sound\".\n\nThe Vela Incident was an unidentified \" double flash\" of light detected by a partly functional, decommissioned American Vela Satellite on September 22, 1979, in the Indian Ocean (near the Prince Edward Islands off Antarctica), other sensors which could have recorded proof of a nuclear test were not functioning on this satellite. It is possible that this was produced by a nuclear device. If this flash detection was actually a nuclear test, a popular theory favored in the diary of then sitting American President Jimmy Carter, is that it resulted from a covert joint South African and Israeli nuclear test of an advanced highly miniaturized Israeli artillery shell sized device which was unintentionally detectable by satellite optical sensor due to a break in the cloud cover of a typhoon. Analysis of the South African nuclear program later showed only six of the crudest and heavy designs weighing well over 340 kg had been built when they finally declared and disarmed their nuclear arsenal. The 1986 Vanunu leaks analyzed by nuclear weapon miniaturization pioneer Ted Taylor revealed very sophisticated miniaturized Israeli designs among the evidence presented. Also suspected were France testing a neutron bomb near their Kerguelen Islands territory, the Soviet Union making a prohibited atmospheric test, as well as India or Pakistan doing initial proof of concept tests of early weaponized nuclear bombs.\n\nMissiles and nuclear warheads have usually been tested separately because testing them together is considered highly dangerous; they are certainly the most extreme type of live fire exercise. The only US live test of an operational missile was the following:\n\nOther live tests with the nuclear explosive delivered by rocket by the USA include:\nThe USA also conducted two live weapons test involving nuclear artillery including:\nThe USA also conducted one live weapons test involving a missile launched nuclear depth charge:\n\nThe Soviet Union tested nuclear explosives on rockets as part of their development of a localized anti-ballistic missile system in the 1960s. Some of the Soviet nuclear tests with warheads delivered by rocket include:\nThe Soviet Union also conducted three live nuclear torpedo tests including:\n\nThe People's Republic of China conducted CHIC-4 with a Dongfeng-2 rocket launch on October 27, 1966. The warhead exploded with a yield of 12 kt.\n\nThe following list contains all known nuclear tests conducted with a yield of 1.4 Mt TNT equivalent and more.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189648", "title": "Fabrizio Ravanelli", "text": "Fabrizio Ravanelli\n\nFabrizio Ravanelli (; born 11 December 1968) is an Italian football manager and former international player.\n\nA former striker, Ravanelli started and ended his playing career at hometown club Perugia Calcio, and also played for Middlesbrough, Juventus and Marseille. He won five titles with Juventus, including a Serie A championship in 1995 and a Champions League title in 1996 where he scored in the final. In all, during his career he played with twelve clubs from four countries; his native Italy, England, France and Scotland. Nicknamed 'The White Feather', he earned 22 caps for the Italian national team, scoring 8 goals, and was a member of the Italian squad that took part at UEFA Euro 1996.\n\nRavanelli began his club career with his hometown club Perugia Calcio in 1986, where he remained until 1989. He had a spell with Avellino later that year, and subsequently played with Casertana for a season. In 1990, he moved to Reggiana, where he remained for two seasons.\n\nAfter joining Juventus in 1992, he formed a formidable offensive line alongside players such as Roberto Baggio, Gianluca Vialli, Paolo Di Canio, Pierluigi Casiraghi, Andreas Möller, and Alessandro Del Piero. Affectionately known as the \"White Feather\" (in Italian: \"Penna Bianca\") in recognition of his prematurely white hair (a nickname which had also previously belonged to former Juventus legend Roberto Bettega), he was one of Europe's top goalscorers in the mid-1990s. After initially struggling to obtain a starting spot under Giovanni Trapattoni, due to competition from several other strikers, he eventually managed to break into the starting line-up. During the 1994–95 season, under Marcello Lippi, he played a key role as the club claimed a domestic double, playing in an attacking trident, alongside Vialli, and either Baggio or Del Piero. With the Turin club, Ravanelli won one Serie A title (1994–95), one Coppa Italia (1994–95), one Supercoppa Italiana (1995), one Champions League (1995–96), where he scored in the final against Ajax, and one UEFA Cup (1992–93). On 27 September 1994, he memorably scored all five goals for Juventus against CSKA Sofia in a 5–1 win. In the 1996 UEFA Champions League Final, he put Juventus 1–0 up at the Stadio Olimpico in Rome.<ref name=\"1995/96: Juve hold their nerve\"></ref> Ajax subsequently equalised, but Juventus still won the game through a penalty shootout.\n\nRavanelli made an immediate positive impact on moving to the Premier League with Bryan Robson's Middlesbrough on a £7 million transfer in 1996, where his success was sustained. He scored a hat-trick on his league debut against Liverpool on the opening day of the 1996–97 season. Despite being one of the league's top scorers, Middlesbrough were relegated in the year that he joined. He did, however, help them to the final of both domestic cup competitions that season. He started both finals, as Middlesbrough lost 2–0 against Chelsea in the FA Cup Final, and Leicester City 1–0 in the replay of the League Cup Final. Against Leicester, he scored the first goal in the final of the first meeting, only for Emile Heskey to equalise and send the game to a replay, which Leicester subsequently won. He alienated himself from teammates and fans, with his constant complaints and criticisms of the club's training regime and facilities, as well as the town itself, despite being the highest paid footballer in the Premiership at the time. Whilst at the club, he resided in the local small North Yorkshire village of Hutton Rudby, where Middlesbrough football associates, such as Paul Merson, Gordon McQueen and several other notable individuals have had residences.\n\nAfter Middlesbrough's relegation, Ravanelli moved to Olympique de Marseille. In the 1998–99 season, Marseille finished in second place in the French Division 1, one point behind Girondins de Bordeaux. The following season l'OM competed in the 1999–2000 UEFA Champions League, with Ravanelli scoring once against Sturm Graz at the Stade Vélodrome.\n\nIn January 2000, Ravanelli returned to Italy to sign for Lazio. Ravanelli won his second Scudetto as Lazio ended the 1999–2000 season as champions, also winning the Coppa Italia, and the Supercoppa Italiana.\n\nIn July 2001, Ravanelli joined Derby County on a free transfer, signing a two-year deal, but could not save the club from relegation in 2002. Due to Derby's financial problems, they had to defer his wage payments which they paid for several years.\n\nHe then joined Dundee, following the end of his Derby contract, but was sacked after the club released all of their top earners. The only game in which Ravanelli scored for Dundee was against Clyde in a League Cup match, when he scored a hat-trick.\n\nAfter the experience in Scotland, he returned to Italy to finish his career with his hometown club Perugia, with whom he had also started his professional career, with the aim of trying to save the club from relegation.\n\nRavanelli earned 22 caps for the Italian national team between 1995 and 1999, under managers Arrigo Sacchi, Cesare Maldini, and Dino Zoff, scoring eight goals. He made his international debut under Sacchi on 25 March 1995, in a 4–1 home victory over Estonia, in an UEFA Euro 1996 qualifying fixture in Salerno, also scoring his first international goal during the match. He was a member of the Italian squad that took part at UEFA Euro 1996, and made two appearances throughout the tournament, which came in Italy's opening two group matches, a 2–1 win over Russia, and a 2–1 loss against the Czech Republic, as Italy were eliminated in the first round. He missed out on a spot at the 1998 FIFA World Cup, however, as striker Enrico Chiesa was selected by Maldini in his place.\n\nRavanelli was a quick, dynamic, physically strong, and hardworking left-footed striker, with notable temperament, who was known for his eye for goal, as well as his energy and defensive contribution off the ball, which often saw him drop back into deeper possessions in order to help his team win back possession. Although he was initially not the most naturally talented or skilful player, he was able to improve his technique and movement significantly during his time with Juventus, where he established himself as a top striker. A prolific goalscorer, who was good in the air, and who possessed a powerful and accurate shot, in addition to his ability to score goals, Ravanelli was also capable of playing off of his teammates, due to his link-up play, which, combined with his other skills, made him a complete forward; this also enabled him to play in a supporting role, as a second striker or even as a winger, positions in which he often utilised his ability in the air to get on the end of high balls and create chances for other strikers by providing them with headed assists from knockdowns.\n\nRavanelli's signature goal celebration involved him pulling his shirt over his head and running around the field. He was therefore a strong opposer of the new FIFA regulation, which impeded players from removing their shirts during post goal-celebrations, and which punished any violators with a yellow card.\n\nRavanelli started his coaching career with the Juventus youth team. He joined the club's coaching staff in July 2011 and remained there until 2013.\n\nOn 8 June 2013, Ravanelli signed a two-year contract as the new head coach of Ligue 1 club AC Ajaccio. \nOn 2 November 2013, he was sacked from his post after his club had suffered its fifth consecutive Ligue 1 defeat (this time losing 3–1 at home against Valenciennes FC) on the same day that left them in 19th (second from bottom) position (1 win, 4 draws and 7 defeats in 12 Ligue 1 matches) in the Ligue 1 standings. \"It is not an easy decision (to sack Ravanelli) for a number of reasons. I really appreciated Fabrizio Ravanelli, I really wanted it to work. I do not remember seeing a staff work that much, from morning till night without stopping. You know what football is like. If things are not going well, the only solution is to change the staff,\" said Alain Orsoni, the president of AC Ajaccio.\n\nOn 22 June 2018, Ravanelli signed contract with Ukrainian Premier League club Arsenal Kyiv. On 22 September 2018, Ravanelli resigned after the string of unsuccessful results.\n\nFollowing his retirement, Ravanelli also worked as a football pundit for Sky Italia, Fox Sports, and Mediaset.\n\nIt has been mistakenly reported in some sources that Luca Ravanelli, a defender, is Fabrizio's son. According to Luca, he is not.\n\nJuventus\n\nLazio\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189649", "title": "Danakil Desert", "text": "Danakil Desert\n\nThe Danakil Desert is a desert in northeast Ethiopia, southern Eritrea, and northwestern Djibouti. Situated in the Afar Triangle, it stretches across of arid terrain. The area is known for its volcanoes and extreme heat, with daytime temperatures surpassing 50 °C (122 °F). Less than an inch of rainfall occurs each year. The Danakil Desert is one of the lowest and hottest places on Earth. It is inhabited by a few Afar, who engage in salt mining.\n\nLocal geology is characterized by volcanic and tectonic activity, various climate cycles, and discontinuous erosion. The basic geological structure of this area was caused by the movement of tectonic plates as Africa moved away from Asia. Mountain chains formed and were eroded again during the Paleozoic. Inundations by the sea caused the formation of layers of sandstone, and limestone was deposited further offshore. As the land rose again, further sandstone formed above the limestone. Further tectonic shifts caused lava to pour out of cracks and cover the sedimentary deposits.\n\nThe Danakil Desert has a number of lakes formed by lava flows that dammed up several valleys. Among these is Lake Afrera, which has thick saline crusts on its banks. Other areas of the Danikil became sinks, dry endorheic basins as precipitation evaporates faster than it can collect in permanent lakes. The area is flanked toward the east by the Danakil Alps, a tabular mountain system that has a few volcanic cones which peak in height in Mount Ramlo (). \n\nA deposit of salt up to thick can also be found in the Salt Plain flatlands. Other local lakes include Lake Asale ( below sea level) and Lake Giuletti/Afrera ( below sea level), both of which possess cryptodepressions in the Danakil Depression. The Afrera contains many active volcanoes, including the Maraho, Dabbahu, Afdera and Erta Ale.\n\nThe Afar people mine salt, loading each of their camels with up to thirty salt bricks weighing four kilograms each. It will then take two days to get to the nearest town, with guards watching the camels and guarding them from bandits.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189657", "title": "Phlebotomus", "text": "Phlebotomus\n\nPhlebotomus is a genus of \"sand flies\" in the Diptera family Psychodidae. In the past, they have sometimes been considered to belong in a separate family, Phlebotomidae, but this alternative classification has not gained wide acceptance.\n\nIn the Old World, \"Phlebotomus\" sand flies are primarily responsible for the transmission of leishmaniasis, an important parasitic disease, while transmission in the New World, is generally via sand flies of the genus \"Lutzomyia\". The protozoan parasite itself is a species of the genus \"Leishmania\". Leishmaniasis normally finds a mammalian reservoir in rodents and other small animals such as canids (canine leishmaniasis) and hyraxes. The female sand fly carries the \"Leishmania\" protozoa from infected animals after feeding, thus transmitting the disease, while the male feeds on plant nectar.\n\nThe parasite \"Leishmania donovani\" is the main causative agent of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in India, Nepal, and Bangladesh, where it is transmitted by the sand flies of the species \"Phlebotomus argentipes\". This species of sand flies was on the brink of elimination in India during the 1960s following the widespread use of DDT for malaria control. However, there was a resurgence in their population a decade later.\n\n\"Phlebotomus\" species are also vectors for bartonellosis, verruga peruana, and pappataci fever, an arboviral disease caused by sandfly fever viruses such as the Naples and Sicilian strains of the genus \"Phlebovirus\" (family \"Bunyaviridae\"), which also includes the closely related Toscana virus.\nIn Egypt, two species of medical importance are \"Phlebotomus papatasii\" and \"P. langerni\". These flies are short-lived. Females are bloodsuckers at night; males feed on plant juices. Adults are poor fliers, they usually hop for short distances.\n\nAdults are about 1.5–3.0 mm long and yellowish in colour, with conspicuous black eyes, and hairy bodies, wings, and legs. The oval lanceolate wings are carried erect on the humped thorax.\nMales possess long prominent genital terminalia known as claspers. \nFemales have a pair of anal recti.\n\nBatches of thirty to seventy eggs are laid in cracks and holes in the ground, in crevices in masonry and among leaf litter. The eggs require a humid environment to avoid desiccation, and hatch within about twenty days. The larvae are mainly scavengers, consuming fungi, leaf mould, rotting vegetation and detritus. The larvae are recognisable by their black heads, greyish twelve segmented bodies and conspicuous feathery, branching bristles on head and body, and two pairs of long hairs on the tip of the abdomen. The larvae pass through four instars over the course of three to four weeks, before selecting an upright position and pupating, with the final larval skin remaining attached to the pupa, the long hairs protruding. In cooler climates, the larvae may diapause over winter. Adults emerge from the pupae after about one to two weeks. The whole cycle takes thirty to sixty days unless the larvae diapause, when it may take four or five months. Laboratory colonies of several \"Phlebotomus\" species have been established for experimental study of their biology, behaviour, mutual relations with disease agents, and for testing methods of vector control.\n\nThe adult flies are nocturnal, spending the day sheltering in dark humid places such as on bark, among foliage, among leaf litter, in animal burrows, in termite mounds, and in cracks and crevices. At nightfall they emerge to feed on sugary secretions and plant sap. The female needs a blood meal before it can reproduce; some species feed on mammals including man, while others also feed on birds, reptiles and amphibians. The fly is a weak flier and takes short flights to find a victim, adopting a \"hopping\" style of flight when close to a host. Some sandflies are \"exophagic\", living entirely out of doors, while others are \"endophagic\" and invade houses. In the tropics, adults may breed all year round, but in temperate climates the adults die off in the autumn and new adults emerge in the spring. The adults have short mouthparts and are unable to bite through clothing.\n"}
{"id": "2189670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189670", "title": "Denny Miller", "text": "Denny Miller\n\nDenny Scott Miller (born Dennis Linn Miller; April 25, 1934 – September 9, 2014) was an American actor, perhaps best known for his regular role as Duke Shannon on \"Wagon Train\", his guest-starring appearances on \"Gilligan's Island\", and his 1959 film role as Tarzan.\n\nMiller was a basketball player for the UCLA Bruins at the University of California, Los Angeles, where his father was a physical education instructor. In his senior year, while he was working as a furniture mover to pay for school, Miller was discovered on Sunset Boulevard by a Hollywood agent who signed him with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. His screen test was directed by George Cukor.\n\nHe became the first blond Tarzan in \"Tarzan, the Ape Man\" (1959), a cheapie/quickie which lifted most of its footage from earlier Johnny Weissmuller movies. Miller had been recommended by someone else considered for the role, William Smith, later a star of the NBC \"Laredo\" western series. MGM had Miller under contract for twenty months; in that time, he worked only eight weeks as Tarzan.\n\nMiller did guest spots on a number of television series, such as \"Northwest Passage\" and \"Overland Trail\".\n\nIn 1960, the 26-year-old Miller appeared as Wilkie, the son of a powerful rancher, in the \"License to Kill\" episode of \"Laramie\", starring John Smith and Robert Fuller. He also appeared on \"Have Gun, Will Travel\" and an episode of \"The Rifleman\" as a dimwitted gunfighter named Reuben Miles.\n\nFrom 1961 to 1964, Miller was a regular on \"Wagon Train\" in the role of the scout, Duke Shannon. His co-stars in addition to Robert Fuller were John McIntire, Robert Horton, Frank McGrath, Terry Wilson, and Michael Burns.\n\nAfter the cancellation of \"Wagon Train\" in 1965, Miller starred as Mike McCluskey, the military-officer husband of Juliet Prowse on the NBC sitcom \"Mona McCluskey\". In the story line, Mike insists that Mona live on his salary, rather than hers as an actress. About this time, Miller also guest starred on CBS's \"Gunsmoke\", ABC's \"The Fugitive\", and NBC's \"The High Chaparral\".\n\nMiller guest-starred twice on CBS's \"Gilligan's Island\": in 1964 as lost surfer Duke Williams in the episode \"Big Man on Little Stick\", and in 1967 as a method actor playing Tongo the Ape Man in the episode \"Our Vines Have Tender Apes\". In 1970 he was \"Moose\" on Barbara Eden's \"I Dream of Jeannie\" (Episode #135 \"Eternally Yours, Jeannie\"). In 1971 he appeared as Joe Terry on \"The Men From Shiloh\" (rebranded name for the TV western \"The Virginian\") in the episode titled \"The Politician.\" He appeared on \"The Brady Bunch\" in 1973 as Carol Brady's ego-maniacal high-school boyfriend Tank Gates in \"Quarterback Sneak\". In episode 1.2 of \"Alice\", \"Alice Gets a Pass\", he played a gay football player.\n\nMiller was cast as Gustaf Olaffson in the 1968 episode, \"Britta Goes Home\" on the syndicated anthology series, \"Death Valley Days\", hosted by Robert Taylor. In the story line, Gustaf awaits the arrival of his Swedish bride, Britta (Susanne Cramer). While headed to Gustaf's sod house, Britta becomes disillusioned about her future. Then a visit with other homesteaders help her to face her fear.\n\nHe portrayed John Hays on CBS's \"Hawaii Five-O\" in the 1968 episode \"Pray Love Remember, Pray Love Remember\", as a man falsely accused of murder. He appeared in the \"Emergency!\" episode \"Communication Gaffe\" in 1974 as a father mistakenly believed to be abusing his young son when, in reality, the mother (Brooke Bundy) was abusing the son because of a brain imbalance that required surgery. He also appeared as a logging camp foreman involved in a plot to bring down a passing Presidential plane in a 1975 episode of \"The Six Million Dollar Man\" entitled \"Target in the Sky\" and in an earlier episode, entitled \"The Pal-Mir Escort.\" In 1976, Miller played a murderer on Jack Klugman's \"Quincy M.E.\". In 1978, he appeared in the \"Battlestar Galactica\" episode \"The Gun on Ice Planet Zero\". Miller appeared in the \"Circus of Terror\" episode of the second season of \"Charlie's Angels\" as Helmut Klaus, a European knife-thrower hiding out in the circus until he can obtain political asylum. He also appeared on \"Buck Rogers in the 25th Century\" in the episode \"The Dorian Secret\" and a couple of episodes of \"The Incredible Hulk\". January 1981 he also appeared in \"M*A*S*H\" as an MP (Season 9, Episode 8: \"Tell it to the Marines\").\n\nMiller subsequently appeared as an alien invader in the miniseries \"V\". He was cast in the 1983 episode \"A Sense of Debt\" of \"Magnum, P.I.\" as Leon Platt, a bare-knuckles fighter.\nMiller appeared in over two hundred television series and, for fourteen years, he played the Gorton's Fisherman in TV commercials.\n\nHis film career included roles in \"Love in a Goldfish Bowl\" (1961), and the part of \"Wyoming\" Bill Kelso in \"The Party\" (1968), which he remembered as the part he most enjoyed. His other film credits included \"Making It\" (1971), \"Doomsday Machine\" (1972), \"Buck and the Preacher\" (1972), \"The Gravy Train\" (1974), \"The Island at the Top of the World\" (1974), \"The Norseman\" (1978), \"Caboblanco\" (1980) and \"Circle of Power\" (1981).\n\nDenny Miller wrote an autobiography titled \"Didn't You Used to Be...What's His Name?\" and a book about obesity in the United States called \"Toxic Waist?...Get to Know Sweat!\".\n\nMiller lived with his second wife Nancy in Las Vegas, Nevada and taught classes in relaxation.\n\nMiller was diagnosed with Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) in January 2014. He died in Las Vegas on September 9, 2014 at the age of 80.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189689", "title": "1st Ranger Battalion", "text": "1st Ranger Battalion\n\nThe 1st Ranger Battalion, currently based at Hunter Army Airfield in Savannah, Georgia, United States, is the first of three ranger battalions belonging to the United States Army's 75th Ranger Regiment.\n\nIt was originally formed shortly after the United States' entry into World War II and was modeled after the British Commandos during the war. Members from the unit were the first American soldiers to see combat in the European theater when they participated in the failed raid on Dieppe in France in 1942, during which three Rangers were killed and several more were captured. Later, the 1st Ranger Battalion was sent to North Africa where they participated in the landings in Algeria and the fighting in Tunisia in 1943. Also in 1943 the unit provided cadre for two more Ranger battalions created between the campaigns in Sicily and Italy. After World War II, the 1st Ranger Battalion has gone through a number of changes of name and composition as it has been activated, deactivated and reorganized on a number of occasions. However, the unit has lived on in one form or another since then, serving in the Korean and Vietnam Wars before being consolidated into the 75th Ranger Regiment of which it is a part today. Deployments have included operations in both Iraq and Afghanistan as part of the wider global war on terrorism.\n\nMajor General Lucian Truscott, U.S. Army, in liaison with the British General Staff, submitted proposals to General George Marshall that \"\"we undertake immediately an American unit along the lines of the British Commandos\"\" in 1942. A subsequent cable from the U.S. Department of War authorized the activation of the 1st U.S. Army Ranger Battalion.\n\nAfter much deliberation, Company A, 1st Ranger Battalion was constituted on 27 May 1942. Captain William Orlando Darby, 31-year-old graduate of West Point with amphibious training, was chosen as its commanding officer. Within weeks he was promoted to major for his efforts in organizing the unit. Of the 1,500 men to volunteer for the original Ranger Battalion, only 600 were chosen. Eighty percent of these original Rangers came from the Red Bulls U.S. 34th Infantry Division. On 19 June 1942, Company A, 1st Ranger Battalion, was officially activated in Carrickfergus, Northern Ireland. \n\nA select team of four officers toured the existing commando training camps and selected the center at Achnacarry, Scotland for the Rangers. Here they underwent intense training. Coached by the battle-seasoned commando instructors (commanded by Lt. Col. Charles Vaughan), the Rangers learned the basics of commando warfare. Five hundred of the 600 volunteers (83.33%) that Darby brought with him to Achnacarry completed the commando training. Many could not endure the exercises; one Ranger was killed, while several others were wounded in training so realistic that it was executed under live fire.\n\nThe first Americans to see active combat in the European theater of World War II were forty-four enlisted men and five officers from the 1st Ranger Battalion. Dispersed among the Canadians and the British commandos, these men were the first American ground soldiers to see action against the Germans in the disastrous Dieppe Raid, officially known as Operation Jubilee. Three Rangers were killed and several captured. The first American soldier killed in Europe in World War II was part of the Dieppe Raid, Ranger Lieutenant E. V. Loustalot. During the mission, the British Captain leading the assault was killed. Loustalot took command and with his men attacked a clifftop machine gun nest. Scaling the steep cliff, Loustalot was wounded three times and then was killed by enemy crossfire.\n\nThe first efforts to stop the German infiltration of Europe were by the 1st Ranger Battalion. Attempting to prevent German occupation of seaports in North Africa, the 1st Ranger Battalion spearheaded an invasion at the Port of Arzew in Algeria. This was accomplished by executing a surprise night landing, silencing two gun batteries, and opening the way for the capture of Oran.\n\nIn Tunisia in 1943, the 1st Battalion executed the first Ranger behind-the-lines night raid for the purpose of gaining information and terrorizing the enemy. On 11 February the Rangers took a journey, 12 on foot, for their first raid on an Italian camp at Sened Station. Using the cloak of night, the Rangers slipped in of the Italian outpost and began their attack. It took the battalion only 20 minutes to achieve area control. Fifty enemy were killed and an additional 10 were taken prisoner. Darby, along with fellow commanders, was awarded the Silver Star for this victory and the battalion itself gained the nickname the \"Black Death\" by the Italians. Later, in March, American units were decimated time and again while trying to break through the critical mountain pass at Djbel Ank. Given this mission, the 1st Rangers undertook a twelve-mile (19 km) night march through rugged terrain to reach the heights of Djbel Ank where, at dawn, the Rangers surprised the enemy from the rear, capturing two hundred prisoners and giving General Patton an opening though which he began the final and victorious battle in North Africa. Rangers played a crucial role in the battle of El Guettar which immediately followed, for which the First Ranger Battalion won its first Presidential Unit Citation (US).\n\nThe early success of the 1st Ranger Battalion brought about the creation of the 3rd and 4th Battalions. The original 1st Battalion was divided into thirds. One third of the Headquarters and each company was placed in each of the Battalions 1-3-4. 3rd Ranger Battalion was Activated on 21 May 1943 at Nemours, Morocco, while 4th Ranger Battalion was activated on 29 May 1943 in Tunisia. To provide command and control for these three Ranger Battalions, the 6615th Ranger Force (Provisional) was established. This force was rounded out with the addition of the 83rd Chemical Mortar Battalion, and the 2/509th Parachute Infantry Regiment. The battle seasoned 1st Battalion moved into their newly assigned positions and trained their Ranger colleagues. The 1-3-4 Battalions were trained under Darby in Nemours, Morocco and prepared for the invasion of Sicily and Italy. Following the 1st Ranger Battalion success at the Amphibious Battle of Gela, all four of the initial Ranger Battalions were redesignated as Ranger \"Infantry\" Battalions on 1 August 1943\n\nHad it not been for the accomplishments of the 1st Ranger Battalion in the early entry of WWII, there would be no Rangers today. Their successful invasions in North Africa opened the sea and its ports for the Allied forces. The Allies were now able to move ships and equipment to support subsequent campaigns, enabling the later forces to successfully infiltrate enemy lines along the African coast, in Sicily, and up into Italy.\n\nThe Ranger Force targeted Salerno on 9 September 1943, and participated in the Naples-Foggia Campaign. Then they moved on to Anzio on 22 January 1944. The entire 6615th Ranger Force (Provisional) was destroyed behind enemy lines in a heavily outnumbered encounter at Cisterna, Italy on 30 January 1944, and was officially disbanded on 15 August 1944. The 4th Ranger Battalion suffered some casualties while attempting to break through enemy lines to rescue their comrades in the 1st and 3rd Battalions. The 1st, 3rd, and 4th Battalions were known as Darby's Rangers.\n\nThe 1st Ranger Infantry Battalion, in response to parallel missions in Berlin, was reconstituted on 1 September 1948 as Company A, 1st Infantry Battalion, and activated in the Canal Zone. It served there until it was inactivated on 4 January 1950.\n\nThe outbreak of hostilities in Korea in June 1950 again signaled the need for Rangers. Colonel John Gibson Van Houten was selected by the Army Chief of Staff to head the Ranger training program at Ft. Benning, Georgia. 1st Ranger Infantry Company (Airborne) departed from Ft. Benning, Georgia on 15 November 1950, and arrived in Korea on 17 December 1950, where it was attached to the 2nd Infantry Division. The 1st Ranger Infantry Company (Airborne) opened with an extraordinary example of land navigation, then executed a daring night raid behind enemy lines destroying an enemy complex. The enemy installation was later identified by a prisoner as the Headquarters of the 12th North Korean Division. Caught by surprise and unaware of the size of the American force, two North Korean Regiments hastily withdrew from the area. The 1st Company was in the middle of the major battle of Chipyong-Ni and the \"May Massacre.\" It was awarded two Distinguished Unit Citations.\n\nAs a result of budgetary considerations, the US Army spent much of the 1950s and 1960s consolidating and redesignating units that were on inactive status.\n\nThis unit was redesignated 24 November 1952 as Company A, 1st Ranger Infantry Battalion, in inactive status and was consolidated on 15 April 1960 with the A Company, 1st Battalion, 1st Regiment, 1st Special Service Force, and the consolidated unit was redesignated as Headquarters and Headquarters Company, 7th Special Forces Group(SFG), 1st Special Forces Group. The unit was further consolidated 6 June 1960 with Headquarters and Headquarters Company, 77th Special Forces Group, and the consolidated unit was designated as Headquarters and Headquarters Company, 7th SFG, 1st SFG (organic elements constituted 20 May 1960 and activated 6 June 1960).\n\nOn 1 January 1969, under the new U.S. Army Combat Arms Regimental System (CARS), U.S. Army Rangers were re-formed in South Vietnam as the 75th Infantry Regiment (Ranger). Fifteen companies of Rangers, two of which (A-75 & B-75) were based in the US, were raised from units that had been performing missions in Europe since the late 1950s and in Vietnam since 1966 as Long Range Reconnaissance Patrol and Long Range Patrol companies.\n\nAfter the Vietnam War, division and brigade commanders determined that the U.S. Army needed an elite, rapid deployment, light infantry, so in 1974 General Creighton Abrams charged General Kenneth C. Leuer with the task of activating, organizing, training and leading the first battalion sized Ranger unit since World War II. Because of the success of the 1st Ranger Battalion; eight months later, the 2nd Ranger Battalion was constituted, and in 1984 the 3rd Ranger Battalion and their regimental headquarters were created.\n\nThe 1st Ranger Battalion have participated in the following operations: the 1980 rescue attempt of American hostages, Tehran, Iran in (Operation Eagle Claw); Operation Urgent Fury on Grenada in 1983; the U.S. invasion of Panama (Operation Just Cause) in 1989; Bravo Company, 1st Battalion was deployed in the First Persian Gulf War (Operations Desert Storm and Desert Shield) in 1991; soldiers from the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd Ranger Battalions deployed to Haiti in 1994 (before operation's cancellation; recalled 5 miles (8.0 km) from the Haitian coast); the entire Ranger Regiment is on deployment since the start of the Iraq War, in 2003.\n\nSince December 2001, after the events of 9/11, elements of Headquarters Company and Company A deployed in support of Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan. In 2002, the entire battalion returned to Afghanistan to support the continuing Global War on Terrorism, in March 2002, during Operation Anaconda, 35 Rangers from the Battalion had been assigned as QRF for all Task Force 11 operations, but only half of the platoon was available for the Battle of Takur Ghar.\n\nIn 2003, 1st Battalion participated in combat operations in support of Iraq War, conducting missions across the entire country of Iraq. 290 Rangers from the battalion and 2nd Battalion distinguished itself during the successful rescue of the prisoner-of-war, PFC Jessica Lynch.\n\nThe battalion currently supports the Global War on Terrorism, regularly rotating elements to Afghanistan continuing to successfully dismantle terrorist networks; For actions between 14–16 November 2010, Charlie Company received the Valorous Unit Award for extraordinary heroism, combat achievement and conspicuous gallantry while executing combat operations in support of a named operation. With ISAFs surge in Afghanistan at its peak in summer 2011, for actions in support of Operation Enduring Freedom between 15 May – 28 August 2011 that included: conducting continuous combat operations, including time sensitive raids and deliberate movement to contact operations while in enemy held terrain out of reach by other friendly forces, in places like Khost, Paktika and Nangarhar Province, the battalion received the Meritorious Unit Citation in particular its Bravo Company received the Valorous Unit Award; 2 Rangers from the battalion were killed during this time.\n\nPrimary tasks include: direct action, national and international emergency crisis response, airfield seizure, airborne & air assault operations, special reconnaissance, intelligence & counter intelligence, combat search and rescue, personnel recovery & hostage rescue, joint special operations, and counter terrorism.\n\nPeter Kassig, a former Ranger who was with the 1st Ranger Battalion, 75th Ranger Regiment, later became an aid worker in Syria. He was taken hostage by The Islamic State, and ultimately beheaded.\n\n, the battalion has made 22 deployments during the Global War on Terrorism.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189698", "title": "Nu Pagadi", "text": "Nu Pagadi\n\nNu Pagadi was a German pop band, formed in December 2004 on the fourth season of international reality television program \"Popstars\". Originally a quartet, from May 2005 a trio, the group described their own musical style as \"glam rock\". In September 2005, only ten months after the band's formation, the members announced their official split due to musical differences.\n\nIn May 2005, the band changed from being a quartet to being a trio when Doreen Steinert left.\n\nThe band's name refers to the Russian language, Soviet-era cartoon-series of the 1970s and 1980s called \"Nu, pogodi!\" which means \"Just you wait!\"\n\nKristina Dörfer (born 26 July 1984 in Wurzen) has also used the stage names KR!S and Kris.\n\nDoreen Steinert (born 4 November 1986 in Potsdam) was a candidate in the third season of the German edition of Popstars, reaching the last 50. After leaving Nu Pagadi, Steinert released a solo single, \"Der Brief (den ich nie schrieb)\", which reached number 29 in the German charts, in August 2005. In 2006, she released another single, \"Ich bin meine eigene Frau\", which reached number 66 in Germany.\n\nPatrick \"Pat\" Boinet (born 5 January 1976 in Berlin) qualified for the German edition of Popstars in a Second-Chance-Casting. He qualified for that round via the Sat.1 show Star Search. After the breakup of Nu Pagadi, he appeared as a member of the jury in the Viva TV show \"Shibuya\".\n\nMarkus Grimm (born 5 May 1979 in Moers) worked as a music journalist for the magazine \"plugged\" and sang in the group \"Cabrit Sans Cor\" before he was chosen to join Nu Pagadi. He continued working for \"plugged\" while he was a member. He is also a songwriter. After writing songs for various singers including Claus Eisenmann, a former member of Söhne Mannheims, he has announced a book, \"Cosmic Dancer\", to be published in spring 2009.\n"}
{"id": "2189699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189699", "title": "Jann Carl", "text": "Jann Carl\n\nJann Carl is a co-host and part owner of the syndicated TV show \"Small Town Big Deal\". Carl and her co-host, Rodney K. Miller, report on uplifting stories about people, places and events throughout communities big and small across the United States. The show first aired on September 6, 2012, on the RFD-TV cable network. \"Small Town Big Deal\" has aired almost 100 episodes since 2012 and is now viewed on network and local television stations in nearly 80 percent of the United States.\n\nCarl is also well-known for her 14 years at \"Entertainment Tonight\". She is nationally respected for her interviews with influential newsmakers. Some of the most famous include Brad Pitt, Oprah Winfrey, Tom Cruise, Steven Spielberg, Tom Hanks, Diane Sawyer and Barack and Michelle Obama. She began as a news reporter at WLS in Chicago. She later moved to Los Angeles, where she reported for KABC, and hosted KABC’s “Eye on L.A.” magazine show. \n\nThroughout the late 1980s and early 1990s, Carl was the co-anchor with the late Los Angeles broadcast legend Hal Fishman at KTLA-TV where she earned three Emmys. Later, Carl was an executive producer of the show \"Sold!\" for the History Channel.\n\nCarl has appeared on \"Candid Camera\" and \"America’s Next Top Model\". She has co-hosted the “Oscar Countdown” Academy Award show, the Emmy pre-show, the Jerry Lewis MDA Telethon and the Tournament of Roses Parade on CBS and HGTV. She has also co-hosted ABC's \"Oscar Countdown\" Academy Awards show, the Emmy pre-show, as well as the Tournament of Roses Parade on CBS and HGTV.\n\nCarl was born in Carthage, Missouri. She graduated from the University of Missouri School of Journalism. Carl has been associated with Muscular Dystrophy Association for more than 25 years. After co-hosting the MDA Labor Day Telethon in Los Angeles for eight years, she was chosen by Jerry Lewis as a national co-host in 1996. Carl says that MDA and those with muscular distrophy \"are a family.\" She marked her 17th year on the coast-to-coast broadcast in 2012. She has also served on MDA's national board of directors, and as a national vice president. MDA has recognized her contributions with the Directors’ Award and the Paragon Award. In addition to her service for the Muscular Dystrophy Association, Carl is a supporter of her alma mater, University of Missouri. She has performed as the school's tiger mascot as well as serving as Mizzou Homecoming Grand Marshal. Carl has also served as the master of ceremonies for the \"Model Citizen\" fashion shows. These shows benefit the MU Thompson center for Autisim and Neurodevelopmental Disorders. In November 2016, the University of Missouri Alumni Association awarded Carl the \"Distinguished Service Award,\" the highest award bestowed upon a University of Missouri alum.\n"}
{"id": "2189701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189701", "title": "Debre Libanos", "text": "Debre Libanos\n\nDebre Libanos (Amharic: ደብረ ሊባኖስ) is a monastery in Ethiopia, lying northwest of Addis Ababa in the Semien Shewa Zone of the Oromia Region. Founded in the 13th century by Saint Tekle Haymanot, according to tradition, he meditated in a cave for 29 years. The monastery's chief abbot, called the \"Ichege\", was the second most powerful official in the Ethiopian Church after the \"Abuna\". \n\nThe monastery complex sits on a terrace between a cliff and the gorge of one of the tributaries of the Abbay River. None of the original buildings of Debre Libanos survive, although David Buxton suspected \"there are interesting things still to be found among the neighbouring cliffs.\" Current buildings include the church over Tekle Haymanot's tomb, which Emperor Haile Selassie ordered constructed in 1961; a slightly older Church of the Cross, where Buxton was told a fragment of the True Cross is preserved; and five religious schools. The cave where the saint lived is in the nearby cliffs, which one travel guide describes as a five-minute walk away. This cave contains a spring, whose water is considered holy and is the object of pilgrimages.\n\nAccording to David Buxton, the original route to Debre Libanos was through a cleft in the cliffs that line the eastern side of the Abay. In the later 20th century a road was laid from the main Addis Ababa – Debre Marqos highway to the monastery; it is a little more than four kilometers long.\n\nDebre Libanos suffered great destruction during the invasion of Ahmad Gragn when one of his followers, Ura'i Abu Bakr, set it on fire 21 July 1531, despite the attempts of its community to ransom the church. Although the Ichege intervened to protect the Gambos during the reign of Sarsa Dengel, the buildings were not completely rebuilt until after the visit of Emperor Iyasu the Great in 1699.\n\nIn the reign of Emperor Fasilides, after invading Oromos had ravaged the monastery's lands in Shewa the Emperor granted the Ichege his palace at Azazo, where the various Ichege lived. \n\nFrom the 17th century until the matter was resolved in a synod convened by Emperor Yohannes II, the Ichege and the monks of Debre Libanos were the most important supporters of the \"Sost Lidet\" doctrine, in opposition to the House of Ewostatewos.\n\nEmperor Haile Selassie's interest in Debre Libanos dates to when he was governor of the district of Selale. The Emperor notes in his autobiography that during the reconstruction of the church at Debre Libanos, an inscribed gold ring was found in the excavations, which he personally delivered to then Emperor Menelik II.\n\nFollowing the attempted assassination on his life on 19 February 1937, governor Rodolfo Graziani believed the monastery's monks and novices were involved in this attack, and unwilling to wait for the results of the official investigation, ordered Italian colonialists to massacre the inhabitants of this monastery. On 21 May of that year, 297 monks and 23 laymen were killed. Although when Buxton visited Debre Libanos in the mid-1940s, he found the remains of these victims were plainly visible (\"Here were innumerable bones and skulls – bones in bags and bones in boxes, bones lying in confused heaps, awaiting burial\"); a cross-shaped tomb was afterwards built to contain their remains, which stands next to the parking lot.\n\nMosaics and stained-glass for the monastery were made and exhibited in London at the Festival Hall by E.O. Hevezi and G.J. Bajo.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189703", "title": "Austin Aqua Festival", "text": "Austin Aqua Festival\n\nThe Austin Aqua Festival (usually called Aqua Fest) was a ten-day festival held the first week of August on the shores of Town Lake (now Lady Bird Lake) in Austin, Texas from 1962 until 1998.\n\nThe Austin Aqua Festival was created in 1962 to promote Austin and the Texas Highland Lakes as a top vacation area and to boost the local economy in what was normally a slow period. The first Aqua Fest occurred Aug. 3-12, 1962. Art Linkletter was the headliner for the event.\n\nThe festival offered many water related events such as a 150-mile canoe race, fishing contests, a sailing regatta and an illuminated night time parade on the lake. There were many land based events also including the Miss Austin Aqua Beauty contest, a twilight land parade, a daytime military parade, a rodeo, golf tournament, concerts, dances and fireworks.\n\nPatrons of the fest could purchase a book of discount tickets to get into the various venues. The tickets were called Skipper Script. The next year, the script gave way to the Skipper Pin, which was purchased and pinned on the goers clothing, letting the workers know that the wearer was eligible for discounts on tickets.\n\nThe central location for many of the events was \"Festival Beach,\" a small park on Town Lake between the city-owned power plant and a residential neighborhood. The city had originally created Town Lake as a cooling pond for the power plant.\n\nIn 1964, the festival added one of its most popular and controversial events, drag boat racing on Town Lake. It also added a water skiing championship, kite flying championship and an Austin Grand Prix - sports car racing on city streets.\n\nThe 1966 Aqua Fest started out with the world premiere of\" Batman\", with Adam West and other actors from the movie in attendance. 1966 also saw the start of the \"Battle of the Bands\", in which unknown rock and roll bands were judged for awards and recognition. Battle of the Bands would become the festival's top draw. The United States Air Force air demonstration squadron, the Thunderbirds first performed at the Fest the same year.\n\nBy 1968, an estimated crowd of 150,000 watched the night lighted water parade, which had been renamed to \"Rio Noche\" parade in 1964. The crowds were starting to overwhelm Festival Beach causing traffic congestion, parking problems and security concerns for the residents plus the noise of the events, especially the drag boats. However, the mostly Hispanic community had very little political clout to get anything changed.\n\nTheme nights began in 1969. Various nights of the festival would highlight different cultures of Texas. This first year there was Western, German, Czech and Jazz and Rhythm and Blues nights. Throughout the years the theme nights varied as new ones were tried and unpopular ones not repeated. These included Mexican, Black Heritage, Italian, American and International nights. Toward the end of the festival's life, the theme nights had settled to multiple nights with Western and Mexican themes.\n\nAlso in 1969, Bergstrom Air Force Base, on the southeast edge of Austin, began an open house in conjunction with Aqua Fest and titled it Aero-Fest. In addition to the Thunderbirds performing, the gathering showed off many military airplanes and other hardware. A crowd favorite was a C-5 Galaxy, which visitors would walk through to get to the main display area. Aero-Fest was an instant success and in just two years it was drawing 80,000 people to the base. Aero-Fest ceased when the base closed in 1993.\n\nThe new decade saw Aqua Fest's continued growth with the addition of more new events such as a photography contest and motocross in 1971 and the Pet Parade in 1972. But the growth of the event brought confrontation with the neighborhoods surrounding Festival Beach. Complaints had gone unheeded and people finally took to the streets in protest. The anti-Fest coalition was led by Paul Hernandez and a group calling itself the \"Brown Berets.\" Protesters were arrested and they in turn sued the City of Austin and Aqua Fest. By the end of the decade, the drag boat races were gone from Town Lake and pressure was on to find a new location to hold other Aqua Fest events.\n\nDue to continued protest and growing crowds, Aqua Fest was moved from Festival Beach to Auditorium Shores, a larger park along Town Lake about a mile to the west of Festival Beach. This larger area meant the festival could now have multiple stages for entertainment. The festival organizers signed up corporate sponsors and local radio stations to co-sponsor the entertainment and began booking national acts.\n\nThe City of Austin, which had subsidized Aqua Fest in its early years, now believed the Fest was self-sufficient and withdrew its financial support. The city began charging the festival for use of Auditorium Shores.\n\nIn 1985, attendance at Aqua Fest peaked at 252,000. More criticism came at the festival for lack of parking, excessive noise and alcohol abuse issues. This time the rebuke was from residents of the Bouldin Creek neighborhood just south of Auditorium Shores. The opponents of the festival were able to force a non-binding referendum to move Aqua Fest to Lake Walter E. Long in far east Austin. The measure passed but promised corporate support to build a new facility went away as Texas entered an oil bust in the middle of the decade. Aqua Fest stayed at Auditorium Shores.\n\nWith its multiple stages for entertainment, Aqua Fest changed from a civic event to a live music event. The organizers began to book bigger and bigger acts, even paying premiums to get popular acts such as Dolly Parton in 1992. This drove ticket prices up and attendance down. By 1993, the festival only drew 44,000 people and as a result lost $722,000. The festival organization exhausted its cash reserves and asked its largest creditor, the City of Austin, for permission to pay off its debt in annual installments.\n\nIn 1994, Aqua Fest returned to its roots with more local acts and an all volunteer staff and in 1995 brought back the popular theme nights. They also tried drag boat races again, this time at Lake Walter E. Long, but the races drew little interest. It was all too little, too late and the Austin Aqua Festival folded in 1998.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189735", "title": "Debre Damo", "text": "Debre Damo\n\nDebre Damo () is the name of a flat-topped mountain, or amba, and a 6th-century monastery in Tigray, Ethiopia. The mountain is a steeply rising plateau of trapezoidal shape, about 1000 by 400 m in dimension. It sits at an elevation of 2216 m above sea level. It is north-west of Adigrat, in the Mehakelegnaw Zone of the Tigray Region, close to the border with Eritrea.\n\nThe monastery, accessible only by rope up a sheer cliff, 15 m high, is known for its collection of manuscripts and for having the earliest existing church building in Ethiopia that is still in its original style, and only men can visit it. Tradition claims the monastery was founded in the 6th century by Abuna Aregawi.\n\nThe monastery received its first archeological examination by E. Litton, who led a German expedition to northern Ethiopia in the early 20th century. By the time that David Buxton saw the ancient church in the mid-1940s, he found it \"on the point of collapse\". A few years later, an English architect, DH Matthews, assisted in the restoration of the building, which included the rebuilding of one of its wood and stone walls (a characteristic style of Aksumite architecture).\n\nThomas Pakenham, who visited the church in 1955, records a tradition that Debre Damo had also once been a royal prison for heirs to the Emperor of Ethiopia, like the better-known Wehni and Amba Geshen. The exterior walls of the church were built of alternating courses of limestone blocks and wood, \"fitted with the projecting stumps that Ethiopians call 'monkey heads'\". Once inside, Pakenham was in awe of what he saw:\n\n"}
{"id": "2189740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189740", "title": "Coke Express", "text": "Coke Express\n\nCoke Express trains are unit trains operated by CSX Transportation. They carry coke for steel making, power generation and other various uses. These cars consist of a mixture of standard and high-topped open-top hopper cars, most of which are owned by CSX. Many of the hi-capacity hoppers built for CSX are painted with large letters that read \"COKE EXPRESS\", hence the nickname given to CSX coke trains.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189742", "title": "Carl Remigius Fresenius", "text": "Carl Remigius Fresenius\n\nCarl Remigius Fresenius (28 December 1818 – 11 June 1897), was a German chemist, known for his studies in analytical chemistry.\n\nFresenius was born on 28 December 1818, in Frankfurt, Germany. After working for some time for a pharmacy in his native town, he entered Bonn University in 1840, and a year later migrated to Gießen, where he acted as assistant in Liebig's laboratory, and in 1843, became an assistant professor.\n\nIn 1845, he was appointed to the chair of chemistry, physics and technology at the Wiesbaden Agricultural Institution, and three years later, he became the first director of the chemical laboratory which he induced the Nassau government to establish at that place. Under his leadership and direction, this laboratory continuously increased in size and popularity, a school of pharmacy being added in 1862 (though given up in 1877) and an agricultural research laboratory in 1868.\n\nApart from his administrative duties, Fresenius occupied himself almost exclusively with analytical chemistry, and the fullness and accuracy of his textbooks on that subject (of which that on qualitative analysis first appeared in 1841 and that on quantitative in 1846) soon rendered them standard works. Many of Fresenius's original papers were published in the \"Zeitschrift für analytische Chemie\", which he founded in 1862 and continued to edit until his death.\n\nRemarkably this journal (also known as Fresenius' Zeitschrift für Analytische Chemie or Fresenius' Journal of Analytical Chemistry and the world's first analytical chemistry journal) had produced 371 volumes, all but one of which had been edited or co-edited by a member of the Fresenius family. Spanning three centuries (1862–2001) the Fresenius' Journal of Analytical Chemistry as it was known came to an end when it became Analytical and Bioanalytical Chemistry, which is still running as of 2014.\n\nIn 1881, Fresenius handed over the directorship of the agricultural research station to his son, Remigius Heinrich Fresenius (1847–1920), who was trained under H. Kolbe at Leipzig. Another son, Theodor Wilhelm Fresenius (1856–1936), was educated at Strasbourg and occupied various positions in the Wiesbaden laboratory.\n\nFresenius died suddenly at Wiesbaden at age 78, on 11 June 1897.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189751", "title": "Cultural pluralism", "text": "Cultural pluralism\n\nCultural pluralism is a term used when smaller groups within a larger society maintain their unique cultural identities, and their values and practices are accepted by the wider dominant culture provided they are consistent with the laws and values of the wider society. As a sociological term, the definition and description of cultural pluralism has evolved over time. It has been described as not only a fact but a societal goal.\n\nIn a pluralist culture, groups not only co-exist side by side, but also consider qualities of other groups as traits worth having in the dominant culture. Pluralistic societies place strong expectations of integration on members, rather than expectations of assimilation. The existence of such institutions and practices is possible if the cultural communities are accepted by the larger society in a pluralist culture and sometimes require the protection of the law. Often the acceptance of a culture may require that the new or minority culture remove some aspects of their culture which is incompatible with the laws or values of the dominant culture.\n\nCultural pluralism is distinct from (though often confused with) multiculturalism. Multiculturalism lacks the requirement of a dominant culture. If the dominant culture is weakened, societies can easily pass from cultural pluralism into multiculturalism without any intentional steps being taken by that society. If communities function separately from each other, or compete with one another, they are not considered culturally pluralistic.\n\nIn 1971, the Canadian government referred to cultural pluralism, as opposed to multiculturalism, as the \"very essence\" of their nation's identity Cultural pluralism can be practiced at varying degrees by a group or an individual. A prominent example of pluralism is 20th Century United States, in which a dominant culture with strong elements of nationalism, a sporting culture, and an artistic culture contained also smaller groups with their own ethnic, religious, and cultural norms . \n\nThe idea of cultural pluralism in the United States has its roots in the transcendentalist movement and was developed by pragmatist philosophers such as Horace Kallen, William James and John Dewey, and later thinkers such as Randolph Bourne. One of the most famous articulations of cultural pluralism can be found in Bourne's 1916 essay \"Trans-National America\". Philosopher Horace Kallen is widely credited as being the originator of the concept of cultural pluralism. Kallen's 1915 essay in The Nation, \"Democracy versus the Melting Pot\", was written as an argument against the concept of the \"Americanization\" of European immigrants. He later coined the term cultural pluralism in 1924 when he published \"Culture and Democracy in the United States\". In 1976, the concept was further explored in Crawford Young's book \"The Politics of Cultural Pluralism\". Young's work, in African studies, emphasizes the flexibility of the definition of cultural pluralism within a society. More recent advocates include moral and cultural anthropologist Richard Shweder. In 1976, an article in the \"Journal of Sociology and Social Welfare\" offered a redefinition of cultural pluralism in which it is described as a social condition in which communities of different cultures live together and function in an open system.\n"}
{"id": "2189752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189752", "title": "XHK-TV", "text": "XHK-TV\n\nXHK-TV was a television station on channel 10 in La Paz, Baja California Sur, Mexico. It broadcast from facilities in Colina del Sol, on the east side of the city of La Paz, and was owned by Televisión La Paz, S.A.\n\nXHK was the first television station in Baja California Sur. It received its concession on May 30, 1968, and came to air on June 3. Broadcasting on channel 10 with an effective radiated power of 8,200 watts, XHK was a sister to XENT-AM 790, also owned by Francisco King Rondero and the first radio station in the territory, and the two stations formed the Radio and Television Center (\"Centro de Radio y Televisión\").\n\nXHK's local programs included news, sports, and lifestyle programs, as well as programming from Televisa (primarily through FOROtv and Gala TV) including international news and telenovelas. Local programming at the station's closure included its evening newscasts, \"El Pulso BCS\", as well as \"A Medio Día\", a local newsmagazine aired at midday.\n\nDespite being authorized for digital television and obtaining technical approval to broadcast on channel 34 with 50 kilowatts, the station went off air with the analog shutdown on December 31, 2015. An SCT representative noted that the station was lacking in administrative, financial and technical capacity, but that XHK could return to the air in digital. Another issue casting their ability to resume transmissions into doubt is that the station had not paid employees for several pay periods, failing to pay Christmas bonuses, social security or savings fund contributions, and the union representing 28 of XHK's 40 employees was considering going on strike. Later that month, electrical service was shut off to the Canal 10 studios for nonpayment. It would not be until September that XHK would go into liquidation, selling off embargoed assets in order to raise funds to pay the station's employees.\n\nIn January 2017, the Radio and Television Center was demolished.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189758", "title": "Ignacio Allende", "text": "Ignacio Allende\n\nIgnacio José de Allende y Unzaga (, , ; January 21, 1769 – June 26, 1811), born Ignacio Allende y Unzaga, was a captain of the Spanish Army in Mexico who came to sympathize with the Mexican independence movement. He attended the secret meetings organized by Josefa Ortiz de Domínguez, where the possibility of an independent New Spain was discussed. He fought along with Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla in the first stage of the struggle, eventually succeeding him in leadership of the rebellion. Allende was captured by Spanish colonial authorities while he was in Coahuila and executed for treason in Chihuahua.\n\nAllende was born on January 21, 1769, to a wealthy Spanish criollo family in San Miguel el Grande in Guanajuato, Mexico. His father was Domingo Narciso de Allende, a wealthy trader.\n\nIn 1802, he joined the army, serving under general Félix María Calleja. In 1806, he started to favor the possibility of independence from Spain. \nHis attendance at a conspiratorial meeting in Valladolid (today Morelia) was discovered, in 1809, by the Spanish and went unsanctioned. Regardless, Allende kept supporting the underground independence movement. He was eventually invited by the mayor of Querétaro, Miguel Domínguez and his wife Josefa Ortíz de Domínguez to discuss further plans for independence at their home. It was during one of these meetings where Allende met Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla and his captain Juan Aldama.\n\nOriginally, the independence movement was to be led jointly by Allende and Aldama. A change of plans prompted by the discovery of the conspiracy forced Hidalgo to start the rebellion earlier than agreed. The \"Grito de Dolores\" uttered by Hidalgo signaled the beginning of the revolution, after which the conspirators rallied behind him. The rebel army quickly captured the town of Dolores and marched towards San Miguel el Grande, where Allende obtained the support of his cavalry regiment. On September 22, 1810, Hidalgo y Costilla was officially made captain general of the Revolutionary army while Allende was made lieutenant general. \nAfter the famous capture of the Alhóndiga de Granaditas, in Guanajuato, and his victory in the Battle of Monte de las Cruces Allende suggested Hidalgo march toward Mexico City and capture it. \nAs a consequence of the rebels' defeat in the Battle of Calderón Bridge, the leadership of the Revolutionary army demanded the replacement of Hidalgo as their leader. Allende took this new responsibility and, with a decimated army, he decided to march north to the United States, with the goal of making connections with those in the United States for support.\nThe rebels, however, were ambushed at the Wells of Baján due to the betrayal of Ignacio Elizondo, leading to the capture of Allende, Hidalgo, and several other commanders. Allende's illegitimate child Indalecio was killed during this ambush.\n\nAllende was taken to the city of Chihuahua where he was tried for insubordination and imprisoned. He was informed of 2,000 Americans located near San Antonio de Bexar and asked for a meeting with the viceroy in order to contemplate a joint solution in defending a potential American invasion. His requested was denied and was executed by firing squad on June 26, 1811. His body was decapitated and his head taken to the Alhóndiga de Granaditas where it was shown to the public inside a cage hung from one corner of the building. In 1824 his remains were buried in the vault reserved for the viceroys and presidents in the cathedral of Mexico. His remains were moved in 1925 to the Independence Column in Mexico City.\n\nAllende is a national hero of Mexico. Places named in his honor include the municipal district and city of San Miguel de Allende in the state of Guanajuato, and the Chihuahua municipal district of Allende and its municipal seat, Valle de Allende.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189766", "title": "KLTY", "text": "KLTY\n\nKLTY (94.9 FM) is owned by the Salem Media Group with studios located in Irving, Texas, near Dallas and a transmitter in Cedar Hill. The format is similar to the \"Fish\" branded stations Salem owns elsewhere and its slogan is: \"Your Life...Inspired\". The station is considered the number one Adult Contemporary Christian Music station in the country with the largest number of listeners.\n\nKLTY began playing a mix of Adult Contemporary Christian music (CCM). KLTY lasted only from early August 1985 to late September 1986 when station owner Scott K. Ginsburg changed the call letters to KHYI and changed the format to Top 40 as \"Y-95\". The transmitter site was not at Cedar Hill the primary antenna farm for Dallas radio, but instead transmitted from Lillian, Texas with over 30,000 watts of effective radiated power.\n\nMarcos A. Rodriguez was a fan of the original KLTY and saw potential in the format - especially if a radio station could play it 24 hours a day. He purchased the music library from Ginsburg and began planning the conversion of 94.1 to all CCM. However, he was unable to make a deal for the KLTY call letters (because they were held by an FM station in Liberty, Missouri.\n\nBefore it became 94.1 KOJO, the frequency was used by then-sister station KESS. Elfstrand now leads \"The Morning Ride\" team at WMBI Chicago.\n\nKOJO was notable for its commitment to being a \"full service\" radio station, including a solid news commitment. Morning and afternoon drive newscasts were anchored by former KVIL news director Bob Morrison and Calvin Whitman, and later, Dave Tucker. Morrison moved up to a national network news management position as News and Sports Director of the USA Radio Network, based in Dallas, for 8 1/2 years (until USA was sold and moved to Memphis).\n\nIn the spring of 1989, with a free Michael W. Smith concert, Rodriguez created the first Celebrate Freedom-style event and relaunched the KLTY call letters. Marcos A. Rodriguez went on to produce Celebrate Freedom festivals at Southfork Ranch and build the event into one of the biggest Christian Music festivals in America. Rodriguez sold KLTY to Sunburst Media L.P. in 1999 for $63.3 million and retired. After the sale of KVIL it was the highest price ever paid for a Dallas FM.\n\nKLTY was on 100.7 MHz from January 2000 to December 2000, and was owned by Sunburst until it was sold to Salem. Salem swapped the Christian talk format that had been on 94.9 for nearly two and a half years known as \"The Word\", and placed the popular KLTY on a 94.9 signal while \"The Word\" went to 100.7. This placed the KLTY callsign back on its original frequency.\nKLTY now transmits with 100,000 watts ERP from Cedar Hill, Texas.\n\nWhile KLTY plays a Contemporary Christian music playlist, it has been classified as Adult Contemporary (AC) according to Mediabase. KLTY served (and can still serve) as the de facto \"AC\" station for DFW from mid-2013 to late December 2016 due to CBS Radio-owned 103.7 KVIL contemporizing its playlist to focus on 1990s to current product (with an Adult Top 40 lean) before Mediabase moved the station to \"Hot AC\" a year later (from October 2016 until February 2017 KVIL was a CHR/Top 40 station. Since November 2017 KVIL broadcasts an Alternative Rock format using the moniker Alt 103.7). As of December 26, 2016, KDGE (102.1) in Fort Worth serves as the official \"AC\" station for DFW. KLAK (97.5) in Tom Bean, Texas was another \"AC\" station that served areas north and east of the metroplex until it migrated to a \"Hot AC\" fare themselves in November 2017.\n\nThe 94.9 frequency has a rich history, long predating the current format and ownership. KCLE was established in 1949 in Cleburne, Texas, by owners Jim Gordon and George Marti at 94.3 FM and 1120 AM. Marti was later the inventor of microwave transmitters (known as \"Marti Units.\") Employees included notables such as Russ Bloxom (later news anchor at WBAP/KXAS-TV,) Don Harris (personality at WBAP-AM) and Mike Ambrose (later with KLIF-AM, and a San Diego TV weatherman for 28 years.) The station moved to 94.9 in 1957.\n\nIn 1969, Gordon and Marti ended their partnership; Marti took the AM station and Gordon, the FM. Gordon flipped the FM to KFAD, with an underground/progressive rock format. Notables included Jon Dillon (now at KZPS), writer Phillip Cook, Dave Thomas and Joe Nick Patoski (later the senior editor of \"Texas Monthly\" magazine.\n\nOn January 1, 1972, Dick Osburn took ownership of the station, and reimaged it as KAMC (\"K-Mac\") while continuing the underground music format. By 1974, the format flipped to \"Progressive Country\" when former KFAD talent Biff Big Johnson convinced Dick Osburn and Program Director Ken Bateman to mix country and rock with a show called \"The Country Sunday\". It worked so well that the station dropped the underground rock and became the first 24-hour Progressive Country station in America. Biff had been the first jock when KSCS went Country the year before. KAMC was the only station in Dallas - Ft. Worth to play Outlaw Country artists like Willie Nelson and Waylon Jennings. A notable employee of KAMC was Bill Merrill, who did play-by-play for the Texas Rangers.\n\nOn June 19, 1976, with the station now licensed to Arlington, it was sold to Jimmy Swaggart Ministries and became KWJS (the Word of Jimmy Swaggart) and to new KJIM calls in 1984. (The KJIM calls were resurrected from KJIM-870 AM, who used them from 1957–1984.)\nAfter the first incarnation of KLTY (1985–86) and then KHYI (1986-91) (which aired a Top 40 format, first as \"Y95\", then \"Power 95\"), 94.9 was home to KODZ \"Oldies 94.9\", starting on October 28, 1991. After one year, it flipped to classic country as KSNN \"Sunny 95\" at 12:11 p.m. on October 12, 1992. It then flipped to KEWS - \"The First All-News FM Station in America, Made in Texas\" on February 27, 1996. Religious talker KWRD was established at 94.9 on January 11, 1997 after a trade with KEWS-FM. As a result of the trade, KDFX-1190 AM became KWRD-FM, while KEWS-FM became KOOO-1190 AM.\n\nNotable weekday hosts include Frank, Starlene & Hudson in the Morning, mid-days with Bonnie Curry, afternoon drive with Tony Lopez and Night Light with Bonnie Curry. Traffic is covered in morning and afternoon drive by Gail Lightfoot. Weekends include Frank, Starlene & Hudson, Tony Lopez, Bonnie Curry, MaryRose, Alan Craig, Kim Stewart, Big Mike, Laurie Lynn, Marc Anderson and Dave Harrison.\nFor years KLTY has been one of the leading radio stations in America. The National Association of Broadcasters has awarded KLTY a Marconi Award for being a \"Top Major Market Station Of the Year\" in 2005, 2007, 2009, and 2012. In 2014 and 2016 KLTY was awarded the Marconi Award for \"Religious Station of the Year\".\n\nIn 2004 KLTY earned the GMA Awards for Major Market Station of the Year and the Music Station of the Year award from National Religious Broadcasters.\n\nKLTY has the highest number of listeners for a radio station in the Adult CCM format. According to figures produced from the Arbitron survey released in 2013, KLTY now boasts more than a million listeners.\n\nAs of April 2018, KLTY now broadcasts on HD Radio.\n\nKLTY's secondary channel (HD2) was initially launched as a simulcast of KLTY with a 60-second delay for signal testing. Days later, it was a simulcast of KWRD-FM \"The Word\". As of June 5, it now broadcasts Spanish Contemporary Christian music as \"El Pez\" (translates to \"The Fish\" in Spanish)\n\nKLTY's third channel (HD3) simulcasts KWRD-FM.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189773", "title": "Douglas Camfield", "text": "Douglas Camfield\n\nDouglas Gaston Sydney Camfield (8 May 1931 – 27 January 1984) was a British television director, active from the 1960s to the 1980s. \n\nCamfield studied at York School of Art and aimed to work for Walt Disney. He was a lieutenant in the West Yorkshire Regiment and was training to be in the SAS but due to an injury, he pulled out of the application process. His programme credits include \"Doctor Who,\" \"Z-Cars\", \"Paul Temple\", \"Van der Valk\", \"The Sweeney\", \"Shoestring\", \"The Professionals\", \"Out of the Unknown\", \"The Nightmare Man\", the BBC dramatisation of \"Beau Geste\", and \"Ivanhoe\", the 1982 television movie. Camfield was known for his strict professionalism and was held in high esteem by many actors, producers and writers.\n\nCamfield was commissioned into the Royal Army Service Corps in 1951 during his National Service. Later that year, he transferred to the West Yorkshire Regiment (Territorial Army). He was promoted Lieutenant in 1952. He left in 1956 for health reasons. It has often been noted by those who worked with him that Camfield always retained an affection for the British Army and brought military standards of organisation to the programmes he subsequently directed.\n\nHe is particularly well known for his work on \"Doctor Who\" and was production assistant on its earliest serials, both the pilot and broadcast versions of \"An Unearthly Child\", and \"Marco Polo\". Camfield directed many other stories in its first thirteen years:\n\nOne of Camfield's notable contributions to the series was the casting of Nicholas Courtney as Brigadier Lethbridge-Stewart, who became one of the most long-running and popular characters in its history.\n\nHe submitted a script for the series to producer Philip Hinchcliffe called \"The Lost Legion\", which involved aliens and the French Foreign Legion (a subject which fascinated him). However, the story never made it into production.\n\nHe was also one of eight members of the then-production team, the image of whom was seen during the mind-bending sequence of the serial \"The Brain of Morbius\" and inferred to be an early incarnation of the Doctor. Notably, the incarnation represented by his image appeared again in a flashback sequence of the Virgin New Adventures novel \"Cold Fusion\".\n\nCamfield had a minor heart attack in 1970and died of a heart attack. He was married to actress Sheila Dunn, whom he cast in the \"Doctor Who\" stories \"The Daleks' Master Plan\", \"The Invasion\", and \"Inferno\". They had a son, Joggs, who as of 2012 was working in the music industry. Joggs featured heavily in a DVD tribute documentary \"Remembering Douglas Camfield,\" which was included in the 2013 DVD release of Douglas' Doctor Who serial \"Terror of the Zygons\".\n\nIn 2013, as part of the fiftieth anniversary celebrations for \"Doctor Who\", the BBC produced a drama depicting the creation and early days of the series. Camfield appears as a character in the drama \"An Adventure in Space and Time\", portrayed by actor Sam Hoare.\n"}
{"id": "2189775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189775", "title": "Terry Murphy", "text": "Terry Murphy\n\nTerry Murphy may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189783", "title": "Lev Alburt", "text": "Lev Alburt\n\nLev Osipovich Alburt (born August 21, 1945) is a chess Grandmaster, writer and coach. He was born in Orenburg, Russia, and became three-time Ukrainian Champion. After defecting to the United States in 1979, he became three-time U.S. Champion.\n\nAlburt won the Ukrainian Chess Championship in 1972, 1973 and 1974. He earned the International Master title in 1976, and became a Grandmaster in 1977.\n\nHe defected to the United States in 1979, staying for several months with his former coach and fellow Ukrainian chess player and chess journalist Michael Faynberg. In 1980, Alburt led the U.S. Chess Olympiad team at Malta.\n\nAlburt won the U.S. Chess Championship in 1984, 1985 and 1990, and the U.S. Open Chess Championship in 1987 and 1989. In 1986 he drew an eight-game match with British champion Jonathan Speelman.\n\nAlburt is the author of a series of and best-selling chess books.\n\nHe served on the Board of Directors of the United States Chess Federation from 1985 to 1988. At the conclusion of his term, he stated that not once did he ever hear any discussion by the board of how to promote chess or bring new players into the game.\n\nAlburt has worked as a chess coach for many years. In 2004, he was awarded the title of FIDE Senior Trainer. In New York City, where he lives, several Wall Street figures and other prominent people have taken chess classes from him, including Carl Icahn, Stephen Friedman, Doug Hirsch, Eliot Spitzer and Ted Field.\n\n\nThe \"Alburt Variation\" in Alekhine's Defence is named after him: 1.e4 Nf6 2.e5 Nd5 3.d4 d6 4.Nf3 g6.\n\nIn the 1990 U.S. Championship en route to winning the championship a third time, Alburt defeated four-time U.S. champion Yasser Seirawan with the black pieces: \n"}
{"id": "2189786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189786", "title": "Ralph Webb", "text": "Ralph Webb\n\nColonel Ralph Humphreys Webb (August 30, 1886 – June 1, 1945) was a soldier and politician based in Manitoba, Canada. A monarchist, he served as the 31st Mayor of Winnipeg from 1925 to 1927 and again from 1930 to 1934, and also served in the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba from 1932 to 1941. Webb was a member of the Conservative Party.\n\nWebb was born at sea, on a British liner bound for India. He worked as a deck hand on a whaling vessel.\n\nDuring World War I, he rose in the ranks of the army to Lieutenant-Colonel and commanded the 47th Battalion. He was awarded the Military Cross, the Distinguished Service Order, and the Croix de Guerre.\n\nHe was a virulent opponent of the Winnipeg General Strike in 1919, calling for the deportation of \"radical agitators\" and urging \"the whole gang be dumped in the Red River\".\n\nHis tenure as mayor began in 1924, when he defeated the incumbent Seymour Farmer. Webb's candidacy was supported by the city's business community, and his support base was located in the city's wealthy south-end.\n\nAfter a series of labour strikes in 1931, Webb urged the \"deportation of all undesirables\", including communists, from Canada. A staunch monarchist, he also attacked Chicago's Big Bill Thompson for his criticisms of royalty.\n\nA flamboyant politician, Webb was known as a strong civic booster and an effective salesman of Winnipeg on the international stage. After several re-elections, he was finally defeated by John Queen in 1934.\n\nWebb was first elected to the legislature in the 1932 provincial election, defeating a candidate of the Independent Labour Party in the constituency of Assiniboia.\n\nHe ran for re-election in Winnipeg in the 1936 campaign. At the time, Winnipeg elected ten members by a single transferable ballot. Webb finished third on the first count, and was declared elected on the second.\n\nHaving served in opposition since 1915, the Conservatives joined an all-party coalition government in 1940. Webb briefly served as a government backbencher, but did not seek re-election in 1941. Webb died on June 1, 1945 in Ottawa, Ontario.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189791", "title": "Marc Alaimo", "text": "Marc Alaimo\n\nMarc Alaimo (born Michael Joseph Alaimo; May 5, 1942) is an American actor, known for his villainous roles. He is best known for his role as recurring villain Gul Dukat in the TV series \"\".\n\nAlaimo has been playing characters in television shows since 1971. He has appeared, mostly as villains, in shows such as \"The Doctors\", \"Kojak\", \"Gunsmoke\", \"Baretta\", \"The Six Million Dollar Man\", \"The Bionic Woman\", \"Starsky & Hutch\", \"Knight Rider\", \"Quincy\", \"The Greatest American Hero\", \"The Incredible Hulk\", \"Quantum Leap\", \"Family Guy\", \"Walker, Texas Ranger\", \"Wonder Woman\", \"The Rockford Files\", \"Hill Street Blues\", and \"The A-Team\". Alaimo appeared in Barnaby Jones, in the episode titled “Counterfall”(02/04/1975). Alaimo has appeared in some feature films including the 1984 science fiction movie \"The Last Starfighter\" (portraying the human guise of an alien assassin), the Leslie Nielsen film \"\", \"Tango & Cash\", and the 1988 film \"The Dead Pool\". He also appeared as Curtis Block in the television movie \"Case Closed\" and as a security officer on Mars in the Arnold Schwarzenegger movie \"Total Recall\".\n\nHe played several characters in \"\" (\"Star Trek: TNG\"), starting in the first season. He has the distinction of two firsts on \"Star Trek: TNG\", playing the first Romulan, Commander Tebok, in the 1988 episode \"\", and the first Cardassian (in any \"Star Trek\" series), Gul Macet, in the 1991 episode, \"\". He also played a poker player who speaks French to Data in the episode \"\". In 1993, Alaimo began playing Cardassian character Gul Dukat in \"\". Gul Dukat was a recurring character, who appeared in 37 episodes of that series, and is his best-known character. He also appeared in a season two episode of \"21 Jump Street\".\n\nAlaimo also featured in the 2006 video game \"Call of Juarez\", and its 2009 prequel \"\", both times as the voice of the gunslinging Ray McCall. In 2010 he voiced The Dean in the \"Family Guy\" episode \"The Splendid Source\".\n\nAlaimo was born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. He has a son from his first marriage, Michael Antony Alaimo (born 1971), who is a writer, story editor and producer known for \"The Closer\", \"Major Crimes\", \"Invasion\" and \"Traveler\". Alaimo has a daughter from his second marriage, Ariel Rose (born 1989), who is an artist and stylist.\n\n\n2. Demetria Fulton; previewed Alaimo in Barnaby Jones, the episode titled “Counterfall”(02/04/1975). \n"}
{"id": "2189796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189796", "title": "Charilaos Trikoupis", "text": "Charilaos Trikoupis\n\nCharilaos Trikoupis (; July 11, 1832 – March 30, 1896) was a Greek politician who served as a Prime Minister of Greece seven times from 1875 until 1895.\n\nHe is best remembered for introducing the motion of no confidence to the Greek constitution, proposing and funding such ambitious and modern projects as the construction of the Corinth Canal, but also eventually leading the country to bankruptcy. Nowadays, he is commonly considered one of the greatest Greek Prime Ministers to ever have served.\n\nBorn in Nauplion in 1832, with family ties to Messolonghi, he was the son of Spiridon Trikoupis, a politician who was Prime Minister of Greece briefly in 1833, and Ekaterini Mavrokordatou, sister of Alexandros Mavrokordatos, who also served as a Prime Minister.\n\nAfter studying law and literature in University of Athens and in Paris, where he obtained his doctorate, he was sent to London in 1852 as an attaché of the Greek legation. By 1863, he had risen to be \"chargé d'affaires\", but he aimed rather at a political not a diplomatic career. Trikoupis' family had been original supporters of the English Party; that and his reserved nature bestowed on him the nickname \"the Englishman.\"\n\nIn 1865, after he had concluded the negotiations for the cession by United Kingdom to Greece of the Ionian Islands, he returned to Athens and in 1865 he was elected to the Hellenic Parliament, and in the following year was made Minister for Foreign Affairs, at the young age of thirty-four.\n\nIn 1872 he created his own party, called the Fifth Party (Πέμπτο Κόμμα) on a reformist agenda. On June 29, 1874 (Julian calendar) he published a manifesto in the Athens daily \"Kairoi\" entitled \"Who's to blame?\" (Τις Πταίει;), naming the King as the answer. Specifically, he condemned the king for bypassing public opinion expressed in elections in his selection of Prime Ministers. Trikoupis wrote that the political instability, which characterized the public life was due to the privilege of the crown as far as the appointment and ousting of governments was concerned. This privilege may have derived from the Greek Constitution of 1864, but it resulted in the formation of weak minority governments based exclusively on the royal favor.\n\nMoreover, it underlined that if \"a remedy is not applied\", the country will revolt. In order to prevent this, the writer suggested the restriction of the royal privileges with the introduction of the principle of the \"declared confidence\" which, as he supported, would bring about the harmonization of the political life via the formation of a basically two-party parliamentary system: \"When it (the kingship) sincerely decides to accept that it invites to power only the majority, there is doubt that in Greece, as elsewhere, this enviable honour will not remain exposed for long. Therefore, it is not the fault of the regime, it is not the fault of the representatives of the Nation, it is not the fault of the Nation, if the Parliament is divided in many parties and has not the majority when demanded… The vice lies elsewhere and it is there that a remedy should be sought\".\n\nThe article landed him briefly in jail but also boosted his popularity significantly. A year later, on May 8, 1875 he mustered a parliamentary plurality and King George I reluctantly named him as Prime Minister as the leader of a new Reformist party called the New (or Modernist) Party (Νεωτεριστικόν Κόμμα).\n\nAmong his first acts was the reform of election law and the establishment of the \"\"dedilomeni\" principle\" (αρχή της δεδηλωμένης): the \"declared [confidence of Parliament]\", obliging the king to appoint the leader of the party with a plurality of parliamentary votes as the Prime Minister. The \"dedilomeni\" principle may have contributed to Greece quickly becoming a two-party state as smaller parties merged in an effort to form a plurality. Initially observed by convention, the \"dedilomeni\" has been incorporated into all subsequent Greek constitutions and ushered Greece into modern parliamentary politics. The opposing party to Trikoupis's Modernist Party was the conservative Nationalist Party led by Alexandros Koumoundouros.\n\nWith ever-changing alliances in parliament and fluctuating election results, Greece went through twelve prime ministers in the next six years. Trikoupis headed three of these short-lived governments. The 1875 general election on October 4 was considered the most honest election held to that date in Greece: Trikoupis lost. His short period in office meant he had no opportunity to begin carrying out the aggressive reform program which he had in mind. His foreign policy was to develop the resources of his country so as to create an army and a fleet, and thus to give Greece the power to acquire a leading place among the nations of Southeastern Europe.\n\nIt was not until 1882 that he was able to take measures to this end. On March 15, 1882 he became prime minister for the third time (his second period of office, two years earlier, had lasted only for a few months), and at once set about the task of putting Greek finance upon a firmer basis, and of increasing the prosperity of the country by making roads, railways and harbours. Despite his vision of a progressive nation with modern infrastructure, Greece in the latter part of the 19th century was a poor and backwards country.\n\nHis government was relatively stable and lasted for more than three years. During that time, he was able to push through an aggressive program of reforms. Trikoupis was a strong believer in the need to create an infrastructure to support the economy, and to attract foreign investment. A progressive program of road and railroad construction significantly improved internal communications. The most important of the works he campaigned for was the digging of the Corinth Canal. Another project that Trikoupis envisioned during that period was a bridge to connect the cities of Rion and Antirion across the Gulf of Corinth. The bridge was beyond the technical and financial abilities of the young Kingdom at that time; construction began more than a century later. The bridge, officially named the Charilaos Trikoupis Bridge in his honour, was completed in 2004.\n\nHis difficulties, however, were now increased by the large expenditure that had been incurred for military preparations while he had been out of office as the result of the union effected between Bulgaria and Eastern Rumelia. The Greeks had demanded a compensation for this shifting of the balance of power from the Ottoman Empire and had prepared to enforce their demand by an appeal to arms. The Great Powers, however, interfered blockading the Piraeus to make Greece remain quiet. Trikoupis nevertheless believed that he could raise the value of Greek paper currency to par in a short time, and all his calculations were based upon that assumption. Unfortunately for him and his country, he was not able to make it happen.\n\nHe was defeated at the 1885 general election, but in the following year he resumed office and again took up the cause of economic and financial reform.\n\nDespite the Greek government receiving more than generous funding from Evangelis Zappas, back in 1856, for Athens to host athletic Olympic Games at the Panathinaiko Stadium, in perpetuity, members of the Greek government, notably Trikoupis and Stephanos Dragoumis, were resoundingly against them being athletic games. Trikoupis preferred an agro-industrial Olympics instead. The Zappeion, built to honor Zappas, was intended, by Trikoupis, to host agro-industrial competitions. Despite Trikoupis' anti-athletic politics, the Zappeion not only was the first indoor Olympic arena, hosting fencing in 1896, it also became the first Olympic Village in 1906. Coincidentally, Trikoupis died during the first week of the Athens 1896 Olympics.\n\nHis sixth turn in office (June 22, 1892 – May 15, 1893) was a dramatic one. The country's treasury had been depleted by overspending and systemic corruption often caused by political campaigns in which parties promised massive spending programs. Trikoupis stood before parliament and made the most famous statement of his career: \"Regretfully, we are bankrupt\" (Greek: \"Δυστυχώς επτωχεύσαμεν\"). The servicing of foreign loans was suspended, and all non-essential spending was cut.\n\nTrikoupis was again in power from November 11, 1893 until January 24, 1895. It was during that time that the planning for the 1896 Summer Olympics was begun. Trikoupis was skeptical about the games as he feared that the country could not shoulder the cost. He was convinced, eventually, to host them and made the needed arrangements. This would be his last term in office.\n\nTrikoupis tried to make terms with the creditors of his nation, but he failed in that too. The taxation measures he proposed to combat the country's bankruptcy aroused great hostility, and in January, 1895 he resigned. At the general election, four months later, he and his Modernist Party were astoundingly defeated by his main political rival, Theodoros Deligiannis, and Trikoupis did not even manage to win a seat in the parliament. This led to him resigning from politics and moving to Cannes.\nIn the 17 March 1896 elections, he was involuntarily nominated as an MP, and was elected back into Parliament, but Trikoupis never returned to Greece to assume his seat; he died in Cannes on 30 March 1896. He was buried in Athens.\n\nTrikoupis is considered as one of the greatest modern Greek politicians for his reformist and modernising programs as well as for the introduction of the \"dedilomeni\" principle. Roads in all major Greek cities, as well as the Rio–Antirrio bridge, have been named after him.\n"}
{"id": "2189798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189798", "title": "Tōgō Shrine", "text": "Tōgō Shrine\n\nThe Tōgō Shrine (東郷神社 \"Tōgō-jinja\") was established in 1940 and dedicated to \"Gensui\" (or 'Marshal-Admiral') The Marquis Tōgō Heihachirō shortly after his death. This shrine was destroyed by the Bombing of Tokyo, but was rebuilt in 1964. It is located in Harajuku, Tokyo, Japan.\n\nThere, The Marquis Tōgō Heihachirō is celebrated as a shinto kami.\n\nA small museum and a bookshop dedicated to The Marquis Tōgō are located within the grounds of the shrine.\n\nThe shrine is located near the intersection of Takeshita Street and Meiji Avenue, and is accessible from Harajuku Station.\n\nThe physical remains of the \"Gensui\" (or Grand Admiral) himself are interred at Tama Cemetery in Tokyo. According to \"The Telegraph\", the Tōgō Shrine took possession in 2005 of Admiral Tōgō's original battle flag raised at the Battle of Tsushima; the flag had been in Britain since 1911.\n\nAs for General Nogi Maresuke who had several shrines throughout Japan named for him (Nogi Shrine), there are other Tōgō shrines, for example there is one at Tsuyazaki, Fukuoka, within earshot of the Battle of Tsushima won by The Marquis Tōgō.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189804", "title": "Joara", "text": "Joara\n\nJoara was a large Native American settlement, a regional chiefdom of the Mississippian culture, located in what is now Burke County, North Carolina, about 300 miles from the Atlantic coast in the foothills of the Blue Ridge Mountains. Joara is notable as a significant archaeological and historic site, where Mississippian and European artifacts have been found, in addition to an earthwork mound and remains of a 16th-century Spanish fort. \n\nThe first European encounters came in the mid-16th century. In 1540 the party of Spanish conquistador Hernando De Soto recorded visiting this place. A later expedition in 1567 under Juan Pardo, another Spanish explorer, founded the first European settlement in the interior of the continent, establishing Fort San Juan at this site, followed by other forts to the west. It is thought to be the first and the largest of the forts that Pardo established in an attempt to establish an overland road to the silver mines of Mexico, as the Spanish mistakenly believed the Appalachians were the same as mountains running through central Mexico. The Spanish survived here and at the other forts only about eighteen months before all but one man was killed by the Mississippians. Pardo made it back to Spain. British-related colonization did not begin here until the late 18th century. \n\nIn the late 20th century, a Spanish account of the Pardo expedition was rediscovered and excavations were undertaken in this area beginning in the 1990s. After discovery of both European and Mississippian artifacts at this site in 2008, on July 22, 2013, archeologists announced having found evidence of the remains of Fort San Juan at Joara, including a moat that cut through an earthwork mound built by the Mississippians.\n\nIn the 21st century, archaeological finds from excavations have established evidence of both substantial Mississippian and briefly sustained Spanish 16th-century settlement in the interior of North Carolina. Joara was the site of Fort San Juan, established by the Juan Pardo expedition as the earliest Spanish outpost (1567–1568) in the interior of what is now North Carolina. This was 40 years before the English settlement at Jamestown and nearly 20 years before their \"Lost Colony\" at Roanoke Island.\n\nLocated northwest of Morganton, the site has been excavated since the early 2000s in portions by the Upper Catawba Valley Archaeology Project. They hold regular open houses and educational events for the public during the summer excavation season.\n\nEstablished about AD 1000, Joara was the largest Mississippian-culture settlement within the current boundaries of North Carolina. In 1540 a party of Spanish conquistador Hernando De Soto encountered the people at this chiefdom site. It was still thriving in January 1567 when Spanish soldiers under command of Captain Juan Pardo arrived. Pardo established a base there for the winter, called the settlement \"Cuenca\", and built Fort San Juan. After 18 months, the natives killed the soldiers at the fort and burned the structures down. That same year, 1568, the natives destroyed all six forts in the southeast interior and killed all but one of the 120 men Pardo had stationed in them. As a result, the Spanish ended their colonizing effort in the southeastern interior.\n\nEffects of European infectious diseases and conquest, and assimilation by larger native tribes, led to native abandonment of the settlement long before English explorers arrived in the region in the 17th century. De Soto's 1540 expedition noted the \"Chalaque\" already in the area at the time. According to some modern-day conjectures, the Cherokee, an Iroquoian-speaking people, migrated into western North Carolina from northern areas around the Great Lakes and used some of the former Mississippian village sites. English, Scots-Irish and German immigrants arrived in the 18th century.\n\nJoara is thought to have been settled some time after AD 1000 by the Mississippian culture, which built an earthwork mound at the site. It was a regional chiefdom, established on the west bank of Upper Creek and within sight of Table Rock, a dominant geographical feature of the area. The Joara natives comprised the eastern extent of Mississippian Mound Builder culture, which was centered in the Mississippi and Ohio river valleys. By the time of the first European contact by the Spanish with Native Americans in the foothills of the southern Appalachians, Joara had already grown to be the largest Mississippian-culture settlement in present-day North Carolina. The town served as the political center of a regional chiefdom that controlled many of the surrounding native settlements.\n\nMost contemporary scholars, following John Swanton, connect the various spellings of \"Joara\" with the Cheraw, a Siouan language-speaking people who later inhabited this region.\n\nCofitachequi and the neighboring Coosa chiefdoms were developed by ancestral Muskogean-speaking groups, who apparently claimed other areas as tributary. The Creek people are their descendants. \n\nThe scholar T.H. Lewis at first associated the term \"Xualla\" with the modern Qualla Boundary and thought it was Cherokee. Most modern scholars no longer believe this because historically the French Broad is thought to be the boundary for the Cherokee. Charles Hudson alone argues that \"Joara\" may be a Cherokee name. But the Cherokee were not moundbuilders and were not the first tribe to develop the site. Excavations have shown that the site was not Cherokee.\n\nIn 1540, Hernando de Soto led a Spanish army up the eastern edge of the Appalachian mountains through present-day Georgia, South Carolina and North Carolina. This expedition recorded the first European contact with the people of Joara, which de Soto's chroniclers called \"Xuala\". De Soto brought the queen of Cofitachequi province to Joara as an involuntary member of his entourage. The chroniclers also state that the queen claimed political dominion at this time over Joara province as well as the province of \"Chalaque\", and that the natives in both places respected her office. She managed to escape after reaching Joara.\n\nThe Spanish departed to continue their exploration of Spanish Florida's interior, crossing westward over the Blue Ridge into present-day eastern Tennessee. They recorded visiting the Coosa chiefdom at \"Guasile\". The Muskogee Creek people are considered descendants of the Coosa. \n\nOn December 1, 1566, Spanish Captain Juan Pardo and 125 men departed from Santa Elena, a center of Spanish Florida (located on present-day Parris Island, Beaufort County, South Carolina) under orders from Governor Pedro Menéndez de Avilés to claim the interior for Spain. Pardo was to pacify the native inhabitants, convert them to Catholicism, and establish a route to Spanish silver mines near Zacatecas, Mexico. The Spanish thought Santa Elena was much closer to the mines than it actually was.\n\nTo stay close to food sources on their journey through the foothills, the Spanish traveled northwest where there were friendly natives who would help to feed them. The small Spanish force stopped at Otari (near present-day Charlotte, Mecklenburg County, North Carolina) and Yssa (near present-day Denver, Lincoln County), before arriving at Joara.\n\nCaptain Pardo and his men arrived at Joara in January 1567. He renamed it \"Cuenca\" after his hometown of Cuenca, Spain. Snow in the Appalachian Mountains forced the Spanish to establish a winter base in the foothills at Joara. According to the records of the expedition, the explorers built a wooden fort at the north end of Joara and named it Fort San Juan. The fort became the first European settlement of present-day North Carolina, predating the first English colony at Roanoke Island by 18 years and Jamestown Virginia by 40 years.\n\nThe Spanish kept a base in Fort San Juan and claimed sovereignty over several other settlements in the region, including \"Guaquiri\" (near present-day Hickory, Catawba County, North Carolina) and \"Quinahaqui\" (in present-day Catawba County, North Carolina). In February 1567, Captain Pardo established Fort Santiago at \"Guatari\", a smaller town of Guatari (also called Wateree) natives located in present-day Rowan County, North Carolina.\n\nWhen Captain Pardo received word of a possible French invasion of Santa Elena (an early Spanish mission on the coast), he left a garrison of 30 soldiers to occupy Joara, and four soldiers and his chaplain, Sebastián Montero, to occupy Guatari. He departed the area with the remainder of his force. Pardo appointed sergeant Hernando Moyano to command the force stationed at Fort San Juan.\n\nDuring the spring of 1567, Hernando Moyano led a combined force of natives and Spanish north. The force attacked and burned the Chisca tribe's village of \"Maniateque\" (near present-day Saltville, Virginia) before returning to Joara. After resting and supplying his force, Moyano led his force to \"Guapere\" (thought to be on the upper Watauga River in present-day Tennessee). The Spanish and native force attacked and burned Guapere and marched west to \"Chiaha\" (also in present-day Tennessee). Moyano's force built a fort in Chiaha and waited for Captain Pardo to return.\n\nCaptain Juan Pardo returned to Fort San Juan in September 1567 to find the local inhabitants angered by the Spanish raids and demands for food, women, and canoes. The deaths from newly introduced infectious diseases was also destabilizing the community, causing resentment toward the Spanish. Instead of continuing his mission to Mexico, Captain Pardo left a garrison at Fort San Juan and marched the remainder of his troops westward to resupply Moyano's troops.\n\nPardo first took his troops to the native village of \"Tocae\" (near present-day Asheville, North Carolina), then continued to \"Cauchi\" (near present-day Canton. The force continued on to \"Tanasqui\" and then to \"Chiaha,\" where they found Moyano's troops in need of supply. After aiding them, Pardo returned to Santa Elena.\n\nShortly after May 1568, news reached Santa Elena that the native population had burned the six Spanish forts established by Juan Pardo and killed all but one of the 120 Spanish men stationed in those garrisons. Pardo never returned to the area, and Spain ended all attempts to conquer and colonize the southeastern interior. Captain Pardo's narrative of his travels and settlement at Joara, written by his scribe Bandera, were discovered in the 1980s and translated into English. Together with the archeological evidence at Joara, they have contributed to a significant reassessment of the history of Spanish colonization in the interior of North America.\n\nAt the time of the first Spanish contact, the native people of the area were identified by their villages of residence and were not part of large tribes but were part of regional cultures, in archeological terms. Mortality from European diseases and conquest and assimilation by large tribes, such as the Catawba and Cherokee, caused many of these smaller native bands to disappear as distinct groups.\n\nIn 1670, English explorer John Lederer, departing from Fort Henry, explored deep into North Carolina. He described a large town he called \"Sara\", in the mountains that \"received from the Spaniards the name of Suala\". He said that the natives here mined cinnabar to make purple facepaint, and had cakes of salt. James Needham and Gabriel Archer also explored the entire area from Fort Henry in 1671, and described this town as \"Sarrah\". Scholars believe they were referring to a village likely several miles to the east of the original Joara.\n\nBy the time most English, Moravian, Scots-Irish, and German settlers arrived in the area in the mid to late-18th century, Joara and many of the other ancient native towns in the region had been abandoned. The sites became overgrown and remains of structures and mounds were hidden.\n\nAlthough the sites of Joara and Fort San Juan were forgotten, local inhabitants found numerous native artifacts in certain areas of the upper Catawba River Valley. Unlike areas in which earthwork mounds were recognized and protected, during the early 1950s farmers bulldozed Joara's twelve-foot-high earthen platform mound to make way for cultivation. The location of the mound is now recognizable only as a two-foot rise in the field, but current owners vow to protect the site.\n\nDuring the 1960s and 1970s, several archaeological surveys were conducted in Burke County to determine possible locations of Joara and Fort San Juan. By the 1980s, archaeologists had reduced the number of possible locations and began limited excavations. These surveys and excavations showed that the upper Catawba River Valley did have a sizable native population during the 14th to 16th centuries.\n\nIn 1986, a breakthrough occurred at the Berry excavation site (named for the family who own the property). Archaeologists discovered 16th-century Spanish artifacts. This evidence, supported by Bandera's recently rediscovered 16th-century narrative, caused a reevaluation of Pardo's route through the Upper Catawba Valley. The evidence suggested that the Berry Site is the location of Joara and Fort San Juan. The archaeological site has demonstrated the extent to which the Spanish attempted to establish a colonial foothold in the interior of the Southeast.\n\nFurther excavations at the Berry site throughout the 1990s and 2000s yielded remains of native Joara settlement and burned Spanish huts, and more 16th-century Spanish artifacts. These included olive jar fragments, a spike, and a knife. In 2007, the team excavated Structure 5 and found a Spanish iron scale, as well as evidence of Spanish building techniques. These artifacts were not trade goods but objects used by the Spanish themselves in settlements. Joara is particularly interesting for revealing the interaction between Native Americans and Spanish, who were relatively few in number and depended on the natives for food.\n\nIn 2009 archaeologists familiar with the area concluded this is definitely the site of Joara and Fort San Juan. Evidence supports documented Spanish settlement of 1567–1568, as well as the natives' burning of the fort. The materials found have required a reassessment of the history of European contact with Native Americans. In July 2013, archeologists reported finding evidence of the remains of the fort itself at the site, including the remnants of burned palisades and what appeared to be the main structure within the fort.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189805", "title": "Melka Kunture", "text": "Melka Kunture\n\nMelka Kunture (መልካ ቁንጥሬ) is a Paleolithic site in the upper Awash Valley, Ethiopia. It is located 50 kilometers south of Addis Ababa by road, across the Awash River from the village of Melka Awash. Three waterfalls lie downstream of the bridge across the Awash here, which provides access south to Butajira.\n\nThe site, discovered by Gerard Dekker in 1963, was surveyed by Gérard Bailloud in 1964, and then systematically explored by a French mission directed by Jean Chavaillon (1965-1982 / 1993-1995). Since 1999, an Italian mission directed by Marcello Piperno for the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the University of Rome “La Sapienza” has worked at the site in agreement with the Authority for Research and Conservation of Cultural Heritage of the Ethiopian Ministry of Culture and Tourism and the Oromia Culture and Tourism Bureau.\n\nArchaeologists have uncovered over 30 occupation sites at Melka Kunture. The finds are dated by volcanic depositions left by eruptions of Mount Zuqualla, northeast of Melka Kunture.\n\nThe sequence begins with the Oldowan site of Karre, about 1.7 million years old, which can be correlated to level B of Gombore I, on the right bank of the Awash. A probably contemporaneous Oldowan site is documented at Garba IV. The magneto-stratigraphic sequence of Jaramillo lies between Tuff A, which overlies the Oldowan sites, and Tuff B, which is dated between 1.0 and 0.84 million years ago. Some important sites, such as Garba XII and Simbiro III, datable to a transitional phase from the late Oldowan to the Early Acheulean (Garba XII) or to an archaic phase of the Acheulean (Simbiro), also lie within this chronological span.\n\nA later phase of the African Acheulean is well represented by several sites in the area of Gombore II (dated to about 0.8 mya). The latest Acheulean site is Garba I, dated to ca. 0.5 mya, while the end of this long sequence is represented, at Melka Kunture, by the site of Garba III, approximately dated to 0.2 mya, which can be regarded as a transitional site towards the Middle Stone Age. Some of the above-listed levels yielded hominid remains: a humerus fragment of \"H\". cf. \"erectus\" at Gombore I; a hemimandible of a \"H.\" cf. \"erectus\" child at Garba IV; two \"H. erectus\" skull fragments at Gombore II; and three archaic \"H. sapiens\" skull fragments at Garba III.\n\nThe East African Later Stone Age is poorly documented at Melka Kunture, being represented so far by some finds at Wofi and Kella. A little less than 7 km from Melka Kunture, in a site known as Balchit, are imposing outcrops of obsidian. As recent analyses from samples from several sites in Melka Kunture bear out, these outcrops were used, ever since the earliest Oldowan phases, as an important source of raw material. The exploitation of obsidian in the Melka region went on until historical times, leaving numerous and extensive accumulations of tens of thousands of blades, cores, and scars of this volcanic rock.\n\nA museum was built at the site by the Oromia Culture and Tourism Commission with financial assistance from the European Community, consisting of four buildings with exhibits—one on prehistoric Africa, another on geology and volcanology, a third on paleoanthropology, the fourth on the prehistory of Melka Kunture. There is also an \"Open Air Museum,\" which displays the excavation of two Acheulean sites that have been dated to 0.8 million years BP.\nCurrently (May, 2016) a new museum is under construction, which is funded by the World Bank.\n"}
{"id": "2189807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189807", "title": "Goze", "text": "Goze\n\nThe ideographs for mean \"blind\" and \"woman.\" The kanji are so because the individual ideograph for already existed. is most likely derived from , which also means \"blind woman\" ( is a formal second-person pronoun). Although the term can be found in medieval records, other terms such as , were also in use (especially in written records) until the modern era. In spoken language, the term is usually suffixed by an honorific: , , , etc.\n\nFrom the Edo period (1600–1868), goze organized themselves in a number of ways. Few large-scale organizations have been found in urban areas, though during the nineteenth century some documents speak of a goze association in the city of Edo. In Osaka and some regional towns, goze were sometimes informally linked to pleasure quarters, where they were called to perform their songs at parties.\n\nGoze organizations developed most in rural areas and continued to exist in Niigata (once known as Echigo) and Nagano prefectures well into the twentieth century (the last important active goze, , died in 2005 at age 105).\n\nFrom the Edo period onward, other goze groups were found from Kyushu in the south to the Yamagata and Fukushima prefectures in the north. Blind women farther north tended to become shamans (known as , , or ) rather than goze. Large and important groups were especially active in the Kantō and surrounding areas, in what are today Gunma, Saitama, Chiba, Shizuoka, Yamanashi, and Tokyo-to. Other groups were formed in the Nagano and Gifu prefectures, and the Aichi prefecture farther south. In addition to the well-known groups of Niigata prefecture, groups existed in other areas along the western seaboard, including Toyama, Ishikawa, and Fukui prefectures.\n\nSuzuki Shōei (1996 and elsewhere) divides the organizations of Echigo goze into three main types:\n\nGoze organizations existed to allow blind women a degree of independence in pursuing their careers as musicians (or in some cases, massage). The rules that governed Echigo goze were said to have been decreed by ancient emperors, but no copy of these rules earlier than the late seventeenth century have been found. The central rules governing goze behavior was to obey teachers, be humble towards donors, and not engage in activities that might contravene the morality of the feudal society in which goze operated. Although not stipulated in detail, perhaps the most important rule was celibacy. If such an offense was detected, it easily resulted in the expulsion of a goze from the group. These stipulations were made and enforced for several reasons: if a goze did have a lover or if she married, she would have financial support from an outside source, and thus needed no further charity. Furthermore, the stipulations were developed to protect the image of the goze group as a legitimate non-profit organization and protect it from the appearing to be, or devolving into, a prostitution ring.\n\nRules were also necessary in part because many goze spent a good part of the year on the road, touring from village to village and depending on farmers to allow them to spend the night and use their houses as makeshift concert halls. Reputation and recognition as an officially sanctioned, upright occupation was thus of great importance in making the career of the goze possible. In addition, because Edo-period society was rife with discrimination against women, itinerants, musicians, and anyone with a visual disability, membership in an association that was recognized as legitimate and honorable was an important credential which allayed suspicions that the woman might be a wandering vagabond or prostitute. Honjō Hidetarō (born 1945) and Kosugi Makiko (born circa 1940) were two of many renowned professional folk song () performers who, in their childhoods, were criticized by their parents for \"acting like goze\".\n\nThe repertory of most goze has been lost, but songs of goze from the Niigata, Nagano, Saitama, and Kagoshima prefectures have been recorded. The vast majority of these recordings are from what is today Niigata prefecture.\n\nThe repertory of Niigata (Echigo) goze can be divided into several distinct categories:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189817", "title": "Imperial Japanese rations", "text": "Imperial Japanese rations\n\nImperial Japanese rations were the field rations issued by Imperial Japan in World War II, and which reflected the culture of the Japanese military. Rations had to be stout, durable, simple, sturdy and had to survive without refrigeration for long periods of time. Typically each ration was served in the field in tin boxes, and cooked near the battlefield. The mess tin was known as a \"han-gou\".\n\nThe rations issued by the Imperial Japanese Government, usually consisted of rice with barley, meat or fish, vegetables, pickled vegetables, umeboshi, shoyu sauce, miso or bean paste, and green tea. A typical field ration would have 1½ cups of rice, with barley. The reason why rice was issued with barley was to combat nutritional deficiencies such as beriberi. Often, soldiers would forage for fresh fruit to provide vitamins.\n\nTypically ¼ cup of canned tuna, or sausages, and/or squid would be cooked from either captured locations or hunting in the nearby area. Preserved foods from Japan typically were issued sparingly. Other foods issued: 1 ¼ cups of canned cabbage, coconut, sweet potato, burdock, lotus root, taro, bean sprouts, peaches, mandarin oranges, lychee or beans. 3 teaspoons of pickled radish (typically daikon), pickled cucumber, umeboshi, scallions and ginger added flavor to the rations. Sometimes less than an ounce of dried seaweed, was issued for making sushi in the field, or beer and/or sake was issued to help boost morale.\n\nTwo types of rations were issued, normal rations for use at mealtimes and special rations to be carried by the soldier\n\nA single ration of this type includes the following:\n\n660 g (23.28 oz) of rice;\n\n209 g (7.37 oz) of barley;\n\n209 g (7.37 oz) of raw meat;\n\n600 g (21.16 oz) of vegetables;\n\n60 g (2.11 oz) of pickles\n\nsmall quantities of flavoring, salt, and sugar.\n\nA single ration includes the following:\n\n580 g (20.46 oz) of rice (probably polished);\n\n230 g (8.113 oz) of biscuit;\n\n150 g (5.3 oz) of canned meat (or 60 g (2.1 oz) of dried meat);\n\n120 g (4.23 oz) of dried vegetables;\n\n31 g (1.09 oz) of dried plums, and small quantities of salt, sugar, and sometimes a can of beer made from rice called sake.\n\nFive days rations were issued to each soldier for emergency use\n\nThe ration consisted of;\n\na. Half a pound of hard candy.\n\nb. Can of tea.\n\nc. Package of compact food.\n\nd. Vitamin pills.\n\ne. Package of hardtack.\n\nf. Small sack of rice\n\nIn Burma the Japanese used two types of emergency rations. One was known as the \"A\" scale and the other as the \"B\" scale. Each soldier carried rations for three days on the \"A\" scale and for one day on the \"B\" scale. Neither of the rations was to be eaten except on orders of the commanding officer when the unit was separated from its supply column. Each ration under the \"A\" scale consisted of about 1 pound and 3 ounces of rice (enough for two meals) and one small can of mixed beef and vegetables. The soldier usually cooked the rice in a small bucket which he carried for this purpose. The \"B\" scale ration consisted of three paper bags of hard biscuits (enough for three meals).\n\n"}
{"id": "2189820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189820", "title": "Bregenz District", "text": "Bregenz District\n\nThe Bezirk Bregenz is an administrative district (\"Bezirk\") in Vorarlberg, Austria. It comprises the Bregenz Forest region, the Leiblach valley, and the Austrian part of Lake Constance.\n\nThe area of the district is 863.37 km², its population is 130,425 (2012), and the population density is 151 people per km². The administrative centre of the district is Bregenz.\nThe district is divided into 40 municipalities, one of them is a town, and four are market towns.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189823", "title": "Wondo Genet", "text": "Wondo Genet\n\nWondo Genet (also transliterated Wendo Genet) is a resort town in Ethiopia. Located southeast of Shashemene in the Sidama Zone of the Southern Nations, Nationalities and Peoples' Region, with a latitude and longitude of and an elevation of 1723 meters.\n\nWondo Genet is connected to Shashamene by way of Wendo Wosha, by newly improved paved road; the last three kilometers from Wendo Wosha is a gravel road but in fairly good condition.\n\nBased on figures from the Central Statistical Agency of Ethiopia published in 2005, Wondo Genet has an estimated total population of 5,792 consisting of 2,857 men and 2,935 women. The 1994 census reported this town had a total population of 3,197 of whom 1,582 were males and 1,615 were females. It is the main town in Wondo Genet woreda.\n\nWondo Genet is known for its hot springs and is surrounded by primary Ethiopian forests. It is home to an arboretum and a College of Forestry which was founded in 1977 with Swedish assistance. Also located in this resort town is the Essential Oils Research Sub Center, where spices, aromatic and medicinal plants are conserved and their qualities researched.\n\nThe Swedish Philadelphia Church Mission opened a mission in this town in 1961, which included a medical clinic.\n\nThe Wondo Genet hotel was established in 1964, on land used as recreation site for the royal family until 1975. Emperor Haile Selassie bequeathed its name, meaning \"Wondo Paradise\", in reference to the beautiful panorama with a rich endowment of forests, wildlife and abundant water. Title to the hotel was transferred to the then Hotels Corporation, and currently it is a subsidiary of the Wabe Shebelle Hotels Enterprise. The hotel facilities include 54.4 ha area of land and possesses 40 bed rooms, restaurant and a bar, as well as swimming pools and access to the hot springs.\n\nThe Wendo Genet earthquake of 1983 was among the most significant in Ethiopia in the 20th century. Its magnitude has not been determined, but was severe enough that the frightened inhabitants gathered at the Ethiopian Orthodox church below the hotel to sing and pray the whole day and the whole night. A later disaster was a complex of forest fires which erupted in 17 places in southern Ethiopia on 10 February 2000 including the vicinity of the College.\n\nOn 3 April 2008, 18 people were killed in clashes near Wondo Genet between the Guji Oromo and Sidama people over ownership to grazing and farm land.\n"}
{"id": "2189825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189825", "title": "DuelJewel", "text": "DuelJewel\n\nDuelJewel began in 1997; during their early beginnings they released several demos. The vocalist Hayato joined in 1997, left, and returned in 1999. The band released their first album in 2001 and Natsuki joined in 2002 when Ka-non left the band. They performed at A-Kon (an anime convention) in Dallas, Texas in 2002, which was their first international concert. They returned to the United States, playing in Washington, D.C., Chicago, Anaheim, San Jose, and Houston through the rest of the year and into 2003.\n\nThe band continued to tour in Japan, gaining a larger fanbase, and in May 2007, the band performed at the sold-out two-day JRock Revolution concert held in Los Angeles, CA. On July 11, 2007, they released their first single on Universal, \"Es.\"\n\nThey played in the V-Rock Festival alongside many other bands.\n\nIn 2010 DuelJewel became signed by Maru Music and Gan-Shin and released a USA and European exclusive album entitled \"We Will Melt You\" on September 17, 2010.\n\nIn 2016 DuelJewel disbanded citing issues that Hayato had been experiencing with regards to \"functional dysphonia\". However in late 2018 the band announced that, with Hayato having made a full recovery, they would perform at Zepp Tokyo on March 1st 2019. \n\n\nWhen Shun and Val formed DuelJewel, they had narrowed the possibilities for name to two. Unable to choose between them, they combined them into DuelJewel. Fans have speculated on the meaning of the band's name, but in an interview with JaME in 2007, Val stated that there was none.\n\nAlbums\n\nCompilations\n\nOmnibus\nDemo Tapes\n\nSingles\n\nDVDs\n"}
{"id": "2189837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189837", "title": "Braakman", "text": "Braakman\n\nThe Braakman was a large tidal inlet in the middle of the Dutch region of Zeelandic Flanders, on the south bank of the Westerschelde west of Terneuzen.\n\nIt was created by a succession of storm surges in the 14th and 15th centuries, including the St. Elizabeth's flood (1404) and the St. Elizabeth's flood (1421). For a long time the Braakman was a natural barrier between east and west Zeelandic Flanders, and also access to the ports of Boekhoute, Philippine, Axel and Sas van Gent. Over the centuries it steadily spread, drowning at least 15 villages between 1200 and 1601. Then, people fought back. Successive empolderings shrank the Braakman to a remnant, which was finally closed off from the sea in 1952. During the North Sea flood of 1953, this dam proved its worth: it resisted the flood and prevented flooding in the hinterland.\n\nThe remaining body of water is used for recreation, and part of its seaward end was made into the Braakmanhaven port area.\n"}
{"id": "2189840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189840", "title": "Sheikh Hussein", "text": "Sheikh Hussein\n\nSheikh Hussein is a town in south-eastern Ethiopia. Located in the Bale Zone of the Oromia Region, it has a longitude and latitude of with an elevation of 1386 meters above sea level. The Central Statistical Agency has not published an estimate for this town's 2005 population.\n\nOn 23 December 2007, \"Addis Fortune\" reported that SATCON Construction, an Ethiopian-owned firm, completed a four-year effort to build a 170 kilometer road through the mountainous area of the Oromia Region connecting Sheikh Hussein with the town of Micheta, located in the Darolebu woreda of the Mirab Hararghe Zone. The road was formally inaugurated 19 December.\n\nArthur Donaldson Smith arrived at Sheikh Hussein 21 September 1894, where he spent several days, and afterwards his companion visited the tomb of Sheikh Hussein's assistant Sheikh Mohammed.\n\nThe town is named after what, in some Ethiopian Muslim eyes, is the most sacred place in that country: the tomb of the thirteenth century Somali saint from Merca called Sheikh Hussein, who introduced Islam to the Sidamo people living in the area at the time.<ref>, \"African Study Monographs\", 26(1): 15-58, March 2005, especially. pp. 32–46.\n"}
{"id": "2189862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189862", "title": "Gordon Scott", "text": "Gordon Scott\n\nGordon Scott (August 3, 1926 – April 30, 2007) was an American film and television actor known for his portrayal of the fictional character Tarzan in five films (and one compilation of three made-as-a-pilot television episodes) of the \"Tarzan\" film series from 1955 to 1960. Gordon Scott was the eleventh Tarzan, starting with \"Tarzan’s Hidden Jungle\" (1955). He was \"discovered\" poolside, and offered \"a seven-year contract, a loin cloth, and a new last name.\"\n\nHe was born Gordon Merrill Werschkul in Portland, Oregon, one of nine children of advertising man Stanley Werschkul and his wife Alice. Scott was raised in Oregon and attended the University of Oregon, located in Eugene, Oregon, for one semester.\n\nUpon leaving school, he was drafted into the United States Army in 1944. He served as a drill sergeant and military policeman until he was honorably discharged in 1947. He then worked at a variety of jobs until 1953 when he was spotted by a talent agent while working as a lifeguard at the Sahara Hotel and Casino, located on the Las Vegas Strip in Nevada.\n\n\"Due in part to his muscular frame and height, he was quickly signed to replace Lex Barker as Tarzan\" by producer Sol Lesser. Lesser had Gordon change his name because \"Werschkul\" sounded too much like \"Weismueller\".\n\nScott's Tarzan movies ranged from rather cheap re-edited television pilots to large-scale action films with high-production values shot on location in Africa. In his early Tarzan films, he played the character as unworldly and inarticulate, in the mold of Johnny Weissmuller, an earlier Tarzan portrayer. In Scott's later films, after a change in producers, he played a Tarzan who was educated and spoke perfect English, as in the original Edgar Rice Burroughs novels. Scott was the only actor to play Tarzan in both styles.\n\nFearing he would become typecast as Tarzan, Scott moved to Italy and became a popular star in epics of the péplum genre (known in the United States as sword-and-sandal), featuring handsome bodybuilders as various characters from Greek and Roman myth. Scott was a friend of Steve Reeves, and collaborated with him as Remus to Reeves's Romulus in \"Duel of the Titans\" (1961). Scott also played Hercules in a couple of international co-productions during the mid-1960s. As the péplum genre faded, Scott starred in spaghetti westerns and Eurospy films. His final film appearance was in \"The Tramplers\" (filmed in 1966; released in the United States in 1968).\n\nScott was married two times. His first marriage was with Janice Mae Wynkoop of Oakland, California. They met when he was a lifeguard at Lake Temescal, located in Oakland, California. The couple married in Reno, Nevada, in 1948, and had one child, Karen Judith Werschkul (born August 26, 1948), before divorcing in 1949. He was married to actress Vera Miles, his Tarzan co-star, from 1956 to 1960. He had one son with Miles – Michael, born 1957 – and possibly several other children.\nFor the last two decades of his life, Scott was a popular guest at film conventions and autograph shows.\n\nScott died, aged 80, in Baltimore, Maryland of lingering complications from multiple heart surgeries earlier in the year. He is buried in the Kensico Cemetery, located in Valhalla, New York.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189864", "title": "Humansdorp", "text": "Humansdorp\n\nHumansdorp is a small town and surrounding district in the Eastern Cape of South Africa, with a population of around 29,000 during the census of 2011. It is part of the Kouga Local Municipality of the Sarah Baartman District. \n\nThe town is the centre of the district's light industry and farming. Humansdorp was founded in 1849, and was named after Johannes Jurie Human and Matthys Gerhardus Human, who were joint founders of the Dutch Reformed Church congregation there. The town's residential streets are lined with trees that were planted before the First World War by the then mayor, Ambrose Saffery.\n\nThe Apple Express passes through Humansdorp.\n\nHeinrich Schörbeck (alias Hendrik Spoorbek/Skoorbek), was a seer, healer and magician who settled in the Humansdorp district around 1815. In Afrikaner folklore, he is commonly known as Hendrik Spoorbek/Skoorbek the \"Towenaar\" (Magician/Wizard).\n\nThree-time Olympic athlete Cornelia Bürki was born in Humansdorp. She competed for Switzerland and still lives there today in the little town of Wagen. The Humansdorpers know her as Corrie de Vos.\n\nSergeal Petersen was born in Humansdorp.\nRicardo Groenewald\n\n"}
{"id": "2189870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189870", "title": "The Badger Herald", "text": "The Badger Herald\n\nThe Badger Herald is a newspaper serving the University of Wisconsin–Madison community, founded in 1969. The paper is published Monday through Friday during the academic year and once during the summer. Available at newsstands across campus and downtown Madison, Wisconsin and published on the web, it has a print circulation of 6,000.\n\nThe Badger Herald, Inc. is a nonprofit corporation run entirely by University of Wisconsin–Madison students and funded solely by advertising revenue. The Board of Directors, which operates the company, is composed of nine UW students and three non-voting advisers, including noted First Amendment expert Donald Downs and former Republican congressional candidate John Sharpless.\n\nThe staff consists of nearly 100 students. The office is located off-campus at 152 W. Johnson St. Suite 202. The paper is printed by Capital Newspapers, Inc., home of the \"Wisconsin State Journal\" and \"The Capital Times\".\n\n\"The Badger Herald\" was founded in 1969 by a group of four students seeking a conservative alternative to the UW–Madison's primary student newspaper, \"The Daily Cardinal\", which editorialized against the Vietnam War and had close ties to leaders of the radical campus protest movement. When anti-war activists detonated a truck bomb outside the University's Army Math Research Center on August 24, 1970, damaging several campus buildings and killing a post doc physics researcher, \"The Daily Cardinal\" editorially supported the bombers, saying \"If Robert Fassnacht had died in Vietnam ... he would be a line in a news story – a number. And that is the reality that some of us have already died to change will struggle to change.\" While such attitudes were widespread on college campuses at the time, the Daily Cardinal—along with other college newspapers—helped coordinate and encourage activism against military research. The Daily Cardinal would later become more moderate in response to pressure from local media, the UW Board of Regents, staff members leaving, declining advertising revenue, and the radicalism of the 1960s and early 1970s dying down around the country.\n\nStill, \"The Badger Herald\" formed in direct response to the then-radicalism of The Daily Cardinal and the campus. After several months of fund-raising, scrounging for desks and typewriters, and renting a walk-up office two blocks from the University's Bascom Hill at 538 State Street, the first issue of \"The Badger Herald\" was published on September 10, 1969. In the late-1970s, the \"Herald\" moved to 550 State Street. When the \"Herald\" moved to its office at 326 W. Gorham Street in 1998, the editors kept much of the furniture, including the original desks and homemade light board. Their offices are currently located 152 W. Johnson St. Suite 202.\n\nFounding editor Patrick S. Korten received financial support for the new paper from nationally known conservative writer William F. Buckley after it ran into financial trouble in 1971. Buckley raised money for the struggling paper by giving a fund-raising dinner speech in Madison, with proceeds going to the paper. It is the only speech Buckley ever gave free of charge.\n\nDuring the 1970s the paper remained solvent through advertising sales to businesses on the populous UW campus. The \"Herald\" has consistently refused offers of a subsidy from the university in order to maintain its editorial independence.\n\nDuring that era, the paper maintained a consistently conservative editorial policy - one that has since been abandoned - on a campus that was considered so liberal that it was called \"The Berkeley of the Midwest\". The paper received regional attention and sparked a series of campus protests in 1976 and 1978 by publishing controversial opinion pieces titled, \"Mao, Death of a Tyrant\", \"Top Commie Bites Dust\", \"Can Africans Rule Themselves?\" and \"Confronting the Lavender Menace or: The Case Against Homosexuality\".\n\nThe \"Herald\" was the first newspaper in the state of Wisconsin to publish the work of Pulitzer Prize-winning editorial cartoonist, Jeff MacNelly, having signed the exclusive area rights from his syndicate in 1976.\n\n\"The Badger Herald\" was first published as a weekly newspaper, went twice-weekly in 1974 and went daily in 1987. When the paper moved from weekly to daily, \"its executive board calmed the editorial page's conservative voice,\" bringing it generally into line with the left-of-center political stance of \"The Daily Cardinal\". In 2005, the short-lived Mendota Beacon attempted to fill the void left by the Herald's leftward shift by providing a conservative voice on campus. \n\nEarly on it established itself as a serious presence on campus, and by the early 1990s, overtook the much-older \"Daily Cardinal,\" in circulation and advertising revenue. By 1992, the once upstart conservative alternative campus newspaper had become the dominant newspaper on the 40,000 student University of Wisconsin–Madison campus. Today, the \"Badger Herald\" is still perceived as more conservative than the rival \"Daily Cardinal\". \n\nIn 2001 \"The Badger Herald\" published an advertisement by controversial conservative writer David Horowitz that argued against reparations for slavery. Weathering several protests and disruptions in circulation, the \"Herald\" refused to apologize for publishing the advertisement. After a flurry of national news coverage, the paper's status as an independent student newspaper stood firm.\n\n\"The Herald’s\" position was lauded in the \"Wall Street Journal\", \"USA Today\", and the \"Wisconsin State Journal\". \"The Milwaukee Journal-Sentinel\" editorialized that the \"Herald\" is \"living proof that the Constitution is a living document\".\n\nOn February 13, 2006 \"The Badger Herald\" editorial board published a controversial cartoon that depicted Muhammad. In the accompanying column titled \"Sacred Images, Sacred Rights\", the board said it considered the cartoon \"offensive\" but also deemed it \"clearly newsworthy\" and a \"vehicle of facilitation in the grand marketplace of ideas\". In May 2008, a controversial cartoon of David Horowitz, originally published in the University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee school newspaper, the \"UW–M Post\", that depicted the conservative writer who is of Jewish-American heritage with a hooked nose, was republished on the front page of \"The Badger Herald\". The coverage of this article, that was accompanied by the controversial cartoon, followed the pattern of \"The Herald's\" decision to reprint images considered taboo.\n\nIn February 2010, the \"Herald\" accepted a text ad on its website from Bradley Smith with the Committee for Open Debate on the Holocaust, a Holocaust denial organization. The \"Herald\" Editor in Chief at the time, Jason Smathers, defended the decision based on the belief that the community was strong enough to see and reject the ad. After a strong push back from the university community, of which at least 25 percent is Jewish, the newspaper said it regretted the pain the decision caused but ultimately kept the ad up for the entirety of its month-long run. In March 2010,the United States Holocaust Museum used the newspaper's decision in a form letter soliciting donations from members.\n\nIn 2013, \"The Badger Herald\" became an \"online-first\" publication, with print editions twice weekly. In 2015, the paper announced it would cut down its print editions to a weekly tabloid product. \n\nIn 1976, when numerous newspapers nationally including the Madison \"Capital Times\" declined to run a series of Garry Trudeau's \"Doonesbury\" comic strips because of their controversial content, \"The Badger Herald\" negotiated with the syndicate and was the only paper regionally to print the cartoons.\n\n\"The Badger Herald\" today publishes a comics page one day a week in its print edition. Long-running comics include \"White Bread & Toast\" (since at least 2004) and \"Rocky the Herald Comics Raccoon,\" about a witty, whiskey-swilling roustabout known for his sarcastic observations.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189871", "title": "Invicta (car)", "text": "Invicta (car)\n\nInvicta is a British automobile manufacturer. The brand has been available intermittently through successive decades. Initially, the manufacturer was based in Cobham, Surrey, England from 1925 to 1933, then in Chelsea, London, England from 1933 to 1938 and finally in Virginia Water, Surrey, England from 1946 to 1950. More recently, the name was revived for the Invicta S1 sports car produced between 2004 and 2012.\n\nThis manufacturer was founded by Noel Macklin with Oliver Lyle of the sugar family providing finance. Assembly took place in Macklin's garage at his home at Fairmile Cottage on the main London to Portsmouth road in Cobham, Surrey. Macklin had previously tried car making with Eric-Campbell & Co Limited and his own Silver Hawk Motor Company Limited The Invicta cars were designed to combine flexibility, the ability to accelerate from virtual standstill in top gear, with sporting performance. With the assistance of William (Willie) Watson, his mechanic from pre-World War I racing days, a prototype was built on a Bayliss-Thomas frame with Coventry Simplex engine in the stables of Macklin's house on the western side of Cobham.\n\nThe first production car, the 1925 \"2½ litre\" used a Meadows straight six, overhead-valve engine and four-speed gearbox in a chassis with semi elliptical springs all round and cost from £595. Two different chassis lengths were available, \"SC\" and \"LC\" to cater for the customer's choice of bodywork. As demand grew a lot of the construction work went to Lenaerts and Dolphens in Barnes, London but final assembly and test remained at Fairmile. The engine grew to 3 litres in 1926 and 4½ litres in late 1928.\n\nThe larger engine was used in the William Watson designed 1929 \"4½ litre\" NLC chassis available in short or long versions, but the less expensive A Type replaced the NLC in 1930.\nIn 1930 the \"S-type\" was launched at the London Motor Show. Still using the \"4½ litre\" Meadows engine but in a low chassis slung under the rear axle. About 75 were made.\n\nIn an attempt to widen the market appeal the \"1½ litre\" straight-six overhead-cam Blackburne engined \"12/45\" L-type was announced in 1932. It was a large car with its wheelbase and proved too heavy for the available power needing a 6:1 rear axle ratio. It was available with a preselector gearbox as an option and most had coachwork by Carbodies. The supercharged \"12/90\" of 1933 increased the available power from 45 to but few were made and a proposed twin-cam \"12/100\" never got beyond a prototype.\n\nSporting success for Invicta often came via Violette Cordery, who was Noel Macklin's sister-in-law. She won the half mile sprint at the West Kent Motor Club meeting at Brooklands in 1925 driving a 2.7 litre. In March 1926 Cordery was part of a team of six drivers that set multiple long distance records at the Autodromo Nazionale Monza in Italy. They covered 10,000 miles at 56.47 mph, and 15,000 miles at 55.76 mph. In July 1926 at the Autodrome de Linas-Montlhéry track, Paris, they covered 5000 miles at 70.7 mph, taking over 70 hours of day and night driving, supervised by the Royal Automobile Club.\n\nCordery was twice awarded the Dewar Trophy, latterly in 1929 for driving in 30,000 minutes (20.8 days) at Brooklands, averaging 61.57 mph.\n\nBetween February and July 1927 Cordery drove an Invicta around the world, accompanied by a nurse, a mechanic, and an RAC observer. They covered 10,266 miles in five months at 24.6 mph, crossing Europe, Africa, India, Australia, the United States and Canada.\n\nIn 1930 Donald Healey gained a class win in the Monte Carlo Rally, and won the event outright in 1931 with an S Type, having startedfrom Stavanger. S. C. H. \"Sammy\" Davis had a spectacular accident in an S-type at Brooklands in 1931. Raymond Mays held the Brooklands Mountain Circuit Class Record in 1931 and 1932, and the outright Shelsley Walsh Sports Car Record in the latter year.\nCar production seems to have finished in 1935. Noel Macklin went on to found Railton, who used the Cobham buildings to make their cars after Invicta moved to Chelsea in 1933. An attempted revival using Delage and Darracq components failed to get off the ground. Following the collapse of an attempted sale the court made an order for the compulsory winding up of Invicta Cars Limited on 3 May 1938.\n\nThe name was revived in 1946 by an organisation calling themselves Invicta Cars of Virginia Water Surrey who began making the Black Prince. Meadows engines were again used, this time a twin overhead camshaft 3-litre six with three carburettors giving 120 bhp. The aluminium-bodied cars – steel supplies were effectively non-existent for new businesses in Britain's new centrally planned economy – were extremely complex and very expensive with a torque converter (Brockhouse Hydro-Kinetic Turbo Transmitter) entirely replacing the gearbox. The torque converter was controlled by a small switch with forward and reverse positions. Suspension was fully independent using torsion bars and there were built-in electric jacks. Other innovative luxury items included a trickle-charger to charge the battery from the domestic mains, an immersion heater in the engine, interior heating of the body and a built-in radio. About 16 were made, 12 of which have survived. The new company lasted until 1950, when it was bought by Frazer Nash makers, AFN Ltd.\n\nInvicta Cars Ltd. Company No. 02342199 was registered again in 1989 by Christopher Browning, an Invicta enthusiast who was involved in the restoration and running of Invicta cars designed between 1925 and 1935. The purpose of the company was – and still is today – to record and preserve the heritage of the company name and provide a reference point for all the Invicta cars that are either being restored or are running on the road today.\n\nIn the early 2000s, the marque was resurrected yet again, producing the Invicta S1, at the Invicta Car Company factory in Chippenham, Wiltshire, England owned by Michael Bristow who acquired the brand in 1980.\n\nThe S1 was launched at the 2002 British International Motor Show. The car, designed in cooperation with Chris Marsh & Leigh Adams, was powered by , producing and with a claimed top speed of and acceleration to 60mph in 5 seconds.\n\nA supercharged 5.0-litre V8 engines supplied by Ford's Special Vehicle Team (SVT) in America which can be tuned by Invicta to deliver up to at 6000 rpm and of torque at 4500 rpm, which has a claimed top speed of upwards of . The range prices started at £106,000 and finished at £160,000, or about $156,000 to $236,000 US dollars (December 2008).\n\nThe car features AP Racing 6-pot (front) and 4-pot (rear) main braking system with cross drilled and race spec ventilated disc brakes, an independent hand brake system by Brembo, fully adjustable shock absorbers with race double wishbone suspension, a BTR Hydratrak race limited-slip differential, 50/50 weight distribution and a space frame tubular chassis and roll cage.\n\nIn April 2012 Westpoint Car Company, formerly the Invicta Car Company, was wound-up by the court as a result of a £40,000 unpaid debt following diminishing interest in expensive cars. Invicta Motors changed its name to Westpoint Car Company shortly before it was dissolved to save the Invicta brand being linked to yet another financial failure. The dispossessed owner, Michael Bristow, said it was the fourth financial collapse in the marque's history.\n\n\nThere were earlier but unconnected Invicta companies which made cars in Finchley, London from 1900 to 1905 and Leamington, Warwickshire, England from 1913 to 1914. There was also an Invicta in Turin, Italy in 1906.\n\nBuick Invicta was a General Motors product made from 1959 to 1963.\n\n\nCitations\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "2189873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189873", "title": "Whiteman Airport", "text": "Whiteman Airport\n\nWhiteman Airport (previously known as Whiteman Air Park) is a general aviation airport in the northeastern San Fernando Valley community of Pacoima, in the city of Los Angeles, California.\n\nThe airport was founded as \"Whiteman Air Park\" in 1946 on a farm by pilot Marvin Whiteman Sr. as a non-tower controlled, private airport. Later, Whiteman Manufacturing Co. was built on the airport's west side. In 1970 the airport was purchased by the County of Los Angeles. During the 1980s the name was changed to \"Whiteman Airport\", but it is still commonly referred to as \"Whiteman Airpark\" by old-time local pilots to this day.\n\nThe airport is open to general aviation aircraft 24 hours a day, seven days a week. It is home to over 600 aircraft, and numerous aviation-related businesses.\n\nThe airport can handle small aircraft as well as medium turboprops and jets, although little jet traffic is seen on its rather narrow runway. The control tower is in operation daily. The single runway has runway end identifier lights (REILs), pilot controlled medium-intensity runway lighting (MIRLs) and a precision approach path indicator (PAPI). Full and self-service fuel is available around the clock. The airport has an AWOS Automated Weather Observing System (AWOS) with data available continuously by radio and telephone.\n\n\n\nWhiteman Airport is home to Senior Squadron 35, Cadet Squadron 137, and Los Angeles County Group 1 of the Civil Air Patrol, as well as EAA Chapter 40 and a branch of the Young Eagles.\n\nWhiteman Airport is mentioned in season 5 of the television series Bosch.\n\nWhiteman Airport was used for filming the final sequence of the film Sharknado, standing in for Lancaster Airport.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189875", "title": "Sof Omar Caves", "text": "Sof Omar Caves\n\nSof Omar Cave is the longest cave in Ethiopia at long; sources claim it is the longest system of caves in Africa. It is situated to the east of Robe, in the Bale Zone of the Oromia Region in southeastern Ethiopia, through which the Weyib River (Gestro River) flows. It sinks at the Ayiew Maco entrance and reappears at the Holuca resurgence away. According to tradition Sof Omar was the name of a Muslim holy man who lived in the area and Ayiew the name of his daughter. Maco and Holuca are local names for 'name' and 'cave', respectively. Long a religious centre, it is sacred both to Islam and the local Oromo traditional religion. The caves are known for their many pillars, particularly in the 'Chamber of Columns'.\n\nThe explorer Arthur Donaldson Smith recorded his visit to the cave in 1894. An Italian expedition also visited in 1913. In 1934, Henri Breuil conducted archaeological investigations in the area. The Italians almost certainly visited the cave during the Italian occupation of Ethiopia, but apparently none of these early explorers made a through trip from Ayiew Maco to Holuca.\n\nIn 1967, Eric Robson, Chris Clapham and Kabir Ahmed explored and surveyed the cave, recording 8 km of passage. Following this the Ethiopian Tourist Board published a brochure about the cave. Although the area was not easily accessible and the organized adventure tourist industry did not yet exist, a few intrepid visitors made the trip to the then remote cave.\n\nIn February 1971 Professor Théodore Monod of the Muséum national d'histoire naturelle in France, Bill Morton (ex Manchester University Speleological Society caver), a geologist at Haile Selassie I University, and Ato Mezmure Hailemeskale recorded another 1 km new passages to the known cave. In the same year Dick Ashford and Malcolm Largen of Haile Selassie University made a study of some of the bats in the cave.\n\nIn 1972, a British Expedition to Ethiopia arrived with a team which included Dick Ramsden and Tim Renvoize (Preston Caving Club), Simon Amatt (Birmingham Plytechnic Karabiner Club), Dave Catlin (University of Bradford Pothole Club), Paul Ramsden (Whernside Manor Scout Centre), Terry Raynor (9th and 12th Royal Lancers) and Steve Worthington (Sheffield University Speleological Society). With some initial help from Bill Morton the group made a systematic exploration and survey of the Sof Omar caves and published a full report of their findings in \"Transactions of the Cave Research Group of Great Britain\". The team discovered of new passages, bringing the survey total to .\n\nApproaching from Goro, at Sof Omar the scrubby bush steeply drops 90 m into a canyon. The Web river makes its way from the high Bale Mountains through a wide outcrop of Anatole limestone to the cave. In earlier times the river made a sharp left meander. At some point the limestone dissolved producing a series of phreatic passages, which became big enough to capture the whole flow of the Web river. Eventually the river abandoned the meander, creating a dry valley running from the cave sink at Ayiew Maco to the resurgence at Holuca. Sof Omar village is situated close to Ayiew Maco in the dry valley. Infill into the valley makes it rise to a high point of about 45 m above the Web, before it drops away to a pebble beach downstream of Holuca.\n\nThe other dominant feature is a large shakehole wide and deep and found on the basalt plateau directly above the cave.\n\nThe cave is formed along a network of joints: one set runs approximately north to south and the other east to west. This zig-zag of passages runs in an approximately southeasterly direction. Sof Omar has 42 entrances, but generally only four are useful for gaining entrance:\n\n\nEntering the cave via either of the Village Entrances the visitor passes a shrine used by the locals. The Ayiew Maco Series is a set of interconnecting passages of varying in width between 1 m and 10 m. Several can be passed through to the pebble beach on the left bank of the river. A less complex series of passages exists on the right bank. These probably connected to those on the left bank until severed by the vadose action of the Web cutting the river passage deeper.\n\nThe passage at the pebble beach is about 40 m wide—the widest passage in the cave. At the downstream end of the beach the river disappears between two columns. The continuation crosses the Web at Ford 1 and follows the figure-eight passage until the river is reached again at Ford 2. The river meanders down this 15 m wide, 20 m high rectangular passage for 300 m.\n\nThe way onward involves crossing and re-crossing the river from cobble beach to cobble beach at Fords 2, 3, 4 and 5. Small passages exist on both sides. The beach ends after Ford 5 under the 50 m high Great Dome. On the opposite bank a steep rise leads to Molossadie Passage. The deep, short Ford 6, Ford 7 and Ford 8 lead to a cobble beach and the entrance into the Chamber of Columns. Exiting Ford 6 on the left bank it is possible to enter the Railway Tunnel passage, which offers an alternative route into the Molossadie passage and bypasses Fords 7 and 8 into the Chamber of Columns.\n\nThe Chamber of Columns is a unique feature in the world of caves. It looks like a wide passage leaving the Web before sweeping back to the river about 100 m downstream. The passage circumnavigates a cluster of thick columns densely packed in the centre of chamber. The Railway Tunnel and Molossadie Passage enter the chamber from the north.\n\nThe river passage continues from the Chamber of Columns meandering for about 200 m to the Big Rapids. This striking feature is formed from a jumble of huge boulders, well worn by the actions of the river. The river passage continues around a curve for about 250 m before flowing around a massive boulder into the sunlight at the Holuca Resurgence. The Web continues running through a canyon. About 250 m downstream the dry valley appears on the left bank.\n\nThe left side of the canyon from the resurgence to the dry valley is riddled with passages breaking out into the canyon walls, forming many of the unusable entrances to the cave. Most of these are small passages exposed as the river cut its way down. The exception is the 25 m wide Great Hall that follows the north – south joint pattern breaking into the canyon at the resurgence. Hidden at the end of the Great Hall behind boulders is the hard-to-find Chameleon Passage. This runs along the east–west joint pattern. Some small passages lead from Chameleon to Blank Passage and back to the Big Rapids. Several small passages run from Blank Passage to Boulder Chokes.\n\nThe area surrounded by the river, Great Hall, Chameleon and Blank Passage, contains a criss-cross labyrinth of passages. Two of the most significant, Bill's Passage and Tautology Passage, run between the river and the Great Hall. These are high rift passages, and climbing them gives access to the 35 m long Balcony that overlooks the Big Rapids 7 m below.\n\nRunning parallel to the Great Hall and interconnected to it via several passages is Flintstone Passage. This splits into many different passages that break into the left bank of the canyon downstream of Holuca. Away from the river, Flintstone runs into another of the caves' unique passages, Mudwall Passage, which has filled with mud almost to the 3 m high roof. Following the infilling process a vadose trench has been cut the length of the passage revealing that the mud is formed of thin laminations.\n\nAfter 200 m the Mudwall Passage enters into the small Mudwall Chamber. This has been formed by water coming from Link Passage on the west cutting across the line of the Mudwall Passage disappearing into Rimstone Passage to the east. It is this flow of water that formed the chamber. Climbing out of Mudwall Chamber leads to Batshit Passage, whose floor is knee deep in guano. This leads to the large chamber, the Astrodome, which houses a large colony of bats.\n\nLink Passage is a narrow rift passage that links back to the Chamber of Columns. A series of small passages at two levels leave Link Passage and heads towards the river passage. One of these leads into the wide Blind Passage, which also emerges into the Chamber of Columns. The upper passage is a tight crawl into the pretentiously named Wembley Stadium. This passage is formed in a fault. The survey of the British expedition in 1972 showed that the Wembley Fault extended from a right bank passage on the river to Wembley Stadium, Mudwall and Rimstone Passages.\n\nThe shakehole on the plateau is centred on the Wembley Fault line. Obviously the fault played a significant role in the major collapse that created the shakehole. The underground debris from the collapse forms the Big Rapids and is responsible for the boulder chokes seen near Blank Passage.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189880", "title": "Lisa Canning", "text": "Lisa Canning\n\nLisa Canning (born November 7, 1966) is a Virgin Islander American television and radio hostess and correspondent.\n\nShe is married to Harold Austin and lives in Los Angeles, California.\n\nHer credits include \"Entertainment Tonight\" from 1996–1999, co-host of \"Knights and Warriors\", the first season of \"Dancing with the Stars\", \"Beyond With James Van Praagh\" (as the backstage interviewer/skeptic), and the Pax show \"Destination Stardom\".\n\nAs an actress, Canning appeared in small roles in the feature films \"Scream\", \"Intermission\", and \"The Day After Tomorrow\". She has acted on the television soap operas \"General Hospital\" and \"The Young and the Restless\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189883", "title": "List of Caracas Metro stations", "text": "List of Caracas Metro stations\n\nThe Caracas Metro (referred as \"El Metro\" by locals) is a rapid transit system operating in Caracas, capital of Venezuela. , including Los Teques Metro, the Caracas Metro is made up of 52 stations.\n\nBelow is a list of the Caracas Metro lines and the stations that they serve.\n\nLine 1 of the Caracas Metro currently serves 22 stations, and has a route length of . Its initial section opened in 1983 as the city's first rapid transit line. It was extended thrice during the 1980s, reaching Palo Verde, current eastern terminus, in 1989.\n\nLine 2 operates on much of the same route that Line 4 does. From north-east to south-west its stations are:\n\nLine 3 of the Caracas Metro currently serves 8 stations besides the interchange to Line 1, Plaza Venezuela, and has a route length of . It started revenue service between Plaza Venezuela and El Valle in 1994; it was later extended to La Rinconada in 2006, but this section did not became fully operational until 2010, with the opening of the three intermediate stations.\n\n\nConstruction works for next phase were initiated 18 March 2007 and expected to be completed by year-end 2011. Line 4 was operates on much of the same route that Line 2 does.\n\nFrom east to west:\n\n\nThis line is still under construction.\n\nFirst phase – from west to east:\n\n\nThe following stations found in the City of Caracas are under construction, as part of the project known as the Guarenas / Guatire Metro:\n\n\nMost of this line is still in planning. It will connect Line 2 and Line 3.\n\n\nThe following stations are under construction:\n\n\nThis is a light rail line. The following stations are under construction, as part of the project known as the Guarenas / Guatire Metro:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189888", "title": "Christian Medical Fellowship", "text": "Christian Medical Fellowship\n\nThe Christian Medical Fellowship (CMF), founded in 1949, is an evangelical, interdenominational organisation that links together Christian doctors and medical students in the United Kingdom (UK).\n\nCMFs stated aims are \"uniting Christian doctors\", \"supporting Christian medical students\", \"advancing Christian mission\", \"publishing Christian literature\", \"encourage and equip Christian doctors and nurses to live and speak for Jesus Christ\" and \"promoting Christian values\". The organisation publishes two journals, \"Triple Helix\" (for doctors) and \"Nucleus\" (for students), several smaller publications, and some books. CMF organises conferences on a local and national basis and promotes and supports Christian medical mission overseas.\n\nCMF is linked to similar organisations in many countries through the International Christian Medical and Dental Association and the Universities and Colleges Christian Fellowship for its medical students.\n\nCMF regularly contributes to debate on issues of medical ethics, such as making submissions to the UK House of Lords enquiry into physician-assisted suicide, and is opposed to legal access to abortion and euthanasia in the United Kingdom. In some of these activities, CMF works together with other faith-based and non-faith-based groups, such as the Care Not Killing Alliance and the Lawyers' Christian Fellowship.\n\nThe position of the Christian Medical Fellowship has been to actively encourage doctors and medical students to use opportunities arising from the doctor-patient relationship to discuss faith with patients.\n\nThe Christian Medical Fellowship has been the subject of complaint from several Hindu leaders to the House of Lords Select Committee on Religious Offences objecting to a claim that Hinduism was a 'false religion.'.\n\nIn October 2007, the Christian Medical Fellowship was accused by \"The Guardian\" newspaper of attempting to skew the balance of evidence presented at the Parliamentary review of the UK's laws on abortion due to a number of its members presenting evidence at the Parliamentary Select Committee without revealing their membership and seniority within the organisation. The members concerned stated that they were submitting evidence as individuals, not as representatives of CMF, and they declared their affiliation when asked to do so in an unusual step by the Committee.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189889", "title": "Ward Melville High School", "text": "Ward Melville High School\n\nWard Melville High School is a public high school in the Three Village Central School District of Suffolk County, New York on Long Island, serving grades ten through twelve. It is fed by the two junior high schools in the district: Paul J. Gelinas Junior High School and Robert Cushman Murphy Junior High School, and is named after businessman and philanthropist Ward Melville.\n\nLocated sixty miles from Manhattan in the Three Village area, Ward Melville High School is situated in East Setauket, New York. The school serves students from Setauket, East Setauket, South Setauket, Stony Brook, Old Field, Strongs Neck, and Poquott.\n\nAs of the 2011–12 school year, the school had an enrollment of 1,848 students and 140.0 classroom teachers (on an FTE basis), for a student-teacher ratio of 13.2.\n\nThe building was originally designed to have with capacity for 2,000 students, although it has been expanded several times since. Each of the three grades currently has approximately 600 students.\n\nThe district provides for numerous clubs and activities after school, including a musical–theater arts program and many sports teams. The school offers 25 different Advanced Placement courses and another 25 college courses that are offered credit through several colleges and universities.\n\nThe school has been expanded several times to accommodate the growing number of students attending Ward Melville High School. In 2002, two extra wings were added to the northeastern and southeastern corners of the school. During the 2009–2010 school year, a new weight training facility was completed in the rear of the school while the music rooms were renovated. In the 2010–2011 school year, an additional wing was built to house the science department while the auditorium and the library was refurbished.\n\nWard Melville High School has been recognized as a School of Excellence by the United States Department of Education and carries this designation on each student's transcript and diploma. It was ranked within the top 500 high schools in America in 2004 by MSNBC Newsweek.\n\nThe proximity of Ward Melville to Stony Brook University has encouraged the school to house a very strong science research program. This program annually produces many winners in the Intel Science Talent Search, the Intel International Science and Engineering Fair and other science competitions. In 1998, Ward Melville had the highest number of Science Talent Search finalists in the United States (4 out of 40), and in 2006, it tied for the greatest number of semifinalists (12 out of 300).\nIn 2008, Ward Melville achieved the highest number of Intel Semifinalists in the nation with 13 students. Over the past nine years, 2002–2010, Ward Melville has produced a total of 85 Intel semi-finalists and 11 finalists, the third-most of any secondary school in the United States.\n\nThe school's lacrosse team won the 1999 New York State championship. The team has a healthy rivalry with West Islip High School, against whom the Patriots have matched up in seven of the past eight county championship games. The Patriots captured another state championship and number one national ranking in 2013.\n\nThe Patriots won their first Long Island Championship in the 2013 season.\n\nWard Melville high school offers a wide range of extracurricular activities for its students. These include a nationally ranked Science Olympiad team, the \"InSTAR\" program, which has been very successful in preparing students for the Regeneron Science Talent Search, acclaimed theater and music programs, and others. \n\nIn 2013, a faith-based club, Students United in Faith (SUIF), was rejected due to its religious nature. After being faced with legal action by the Liberty Institute, the school superintendent investigated and reversed the decision, stating that the initial reason for rejection was \"inaccurately conveyed\".\n\nOn October 6, 2014, the school was once again faced with legal action by the Liberty Institute for rejecting SUIF's renewal. The club was supposedly unable to maintain a group number of 20 or more, the purported minimum required by the school. The Equal Access Act of 1984, which is cited as a major point in the club's renewal, does not respect local club minimums.\n\nNotable alumni of Ward Melville High School include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2189890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189890", "title": "The Mantle", "text": "The Mantle\n\nThe Mantle is the second studio album by American folk metal band Agalloch. The album was released on August 13, 2002 by The End Records.\n\nCinema \"really emerged as a reference point for how we arranged out music [on \"The Mantle\"],\" said guitarist Don Anderson. He suggested that the band was \"thinking in images and how sound might express those images\". Taking a more mellow tone than Agalloch's first full-length, \"Pale Folklore\", \"The Mantle\" still contains heavy electric guitar riffs as well as acoustic guitar portions. Anderson pointed to the influence of neofolk music, particularly Death in June, as the impetus for using a strummed acoustic guitar in a darker musical context. Present as well are long and melancholic double bass sequences, such as on the track \"I Am the Wooden Doors\". A critical influence upon Agalloch during this time period was Godspeed You! Black Emperor, with Anderson remarking:\n\nOn March 28, 2005, Profound Lore Records released a double LP version of \"The Mantle\" on grey-colored vinyl. Limited to 500 copies, it also featured exclusive cover artwork.\n\nAll lyrics written by John Haughm, except track 8 which contained an excerpt from Cherokee folk tale \"Earth Making\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2189901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189901", "title": "Microstructure", "text": "Microstructure\n\nMicrostructure is the very small scale structure of a material, defined as the structure of a prepared surface of material as revealed by an optical microscope above 25× magnification. The microstructure of a material (such as metals, polymers, ceramics or composites) can strongly influence physical properties such as strength, toughness, ductility, hardness, corrosion resistance, high/low temperature behaviour or wear resistance. These properties in turn govern the application of these materials in industrial practice.\n\nMicrostructure at scales smaller than that can be viewed with optical microscopes is often called nanostructure, while the structure in which individual atoms are arranged is known as crystal structure. The nanostructure of biological specimens is referred to as ultrastructure. A microstructure’s influence on the mechanical and physical properties of a material is primarily governed by the different defects present or absent of the structure. These defects can take many forms but the primary ones are the pores. Even if those pores play a very important role in the definition of the characteristics of a material, so does its composition. In fact, for many materials, different phases can exist at the same time. These phases have different properties and if managed correctly, can prevent the fracture of the material.\n\nThe concept of microstructure is observable in macrostructural features in commonplace objects. Galvanized steel, such as the casing of a lamp post or road divider, exhibits a non-uniformly colored patchwork of interlocking polygons of different shades of grey or silver. Each polygon is a single crystal of zinc adhering to the surface of the steel beneath. Zinc and lead are two common metals which form large crystals (grains) visible to the naked eye. The atoms in each grain are organized into one of seven 3d stacking arrangements or crystal lattices (cubic, tetrahedral, hexagonal, monoclinic, triclinic, rhombohedral and orthorhombic). The direction of alignment of the matrices differ between adjacent crystals, leading to variance in the reflectivity of each presented face of the interlocked grains on the galvanized surface. The average grain size can be controlled by processing conditions and composition, and most alloys consist of much smaller grains not visible to the naked eye. This is to increase the strength of the material (see Hall-Petch Strengthening).\n\nTo quantify microstructural features, both morphological and material property must be characterized. Image processing is a robust technique for determination of morphological features such as volume fraction, inclusion morphology, void and crystal orientations. To acquire micrographs, optical as well as electron microscopy are commonly used. \nTo determine material property, Nanoindentation is a robust technique for determination of properties in micron and submicron level for which conventional testing are not feasible. Conventional mechanical testing such as tensile testing or dynamic mechanical analysis (DMA) can only return macroscopic properties without any indication of microstructural properties. However, nanoindentation can be used for determination of local microstructural properties of homogeneous as well as heterogeneous materials. Microstructures can also be characterized using high-order statistical models through which a set of complicated statistical properties are extracted from the images. Then, these properties can be used to produce various other stochastic models.\n\nComputer-simulated microstructures are generated to replicate the microstructural features of actual microstructures. Such microstructures are referred to as synthetic microstructures. Synthetic microstructures are used to investigate what microstructural feature is important for a given property. To ensure statistical equivalence between generated and actual microstructures, microstructures are modified after generation to match the statistics of an actual microstructure. Such procedure enables generation of theoretically infinite number of computer simulated microstructures that are statistically the same (have the same statistics) but stochastically different (have different configurations).\n\nA pore in a microstructure, unless desired, is a disadvantage for the properties. In fact, in nearly all of the materials, a pore will be the starting point for the rupture of the material. It is the initiation point for the cracks. Furthermore, a pore is usually quite hard to get rid of. Those techniques described later involve a high temperature process. However, even those processes can sometimes make the pore even bigger. Pores with large coordination number (surrounded by many particles) tend to grow during the thermal process. This is caused by the thermal energy being converted to a driving force for the growth of the particles which will induce the growth of the pore as the high coordination number prohibits the growth towards the pore.\nFor many materials, it can be seen from their phase diagram that multiple phases can exist at the same time. Those different phases might exhibit different crystal structure, thus exhibiting different mechanical properties. Furthermore, these different phases also exhibit a different microstructure (grain size, orientation). This can also improve some mechanical properties as crack deflection can occur, thus pushing the ultimate breakdown further as it creates a more tortuous crack path in the coarser microstructure.\n\nIn some cases, simply changing the way the material is processed can influence the microstructure. An example is the titanium alloy TiAl6V4. Its microstructure and mechanical properties are enhanced using SLM (selective laser melting) which is a 3D printing technique using powder and melting the particles together using high powered laser. Other conventional techniques for improving the microstructure are thermal processes. Those processes rely in the principle that an increase in temperature will induce the reduction or annihilation of pores. Hot isostatic pressing (HIP) is a manufacturing process, used to reduce the porosity of metals and increase the density of many ceramic materials. This improves the material's mechanical properties and workability. \nThe HIP process exposes the desired material to an isostatic gas pressure as well as high temperature in a sealed vessel (high pressure). The gas used during this process is mostly Argon. The gas needs to be chemically inert so that no reaction occurs between it and the sample. The pressure is achieved by simply applying heat to the hermetically sealed vessel. However, some systems also associate gas pumping to the process to achieve the required pressure level. The pressure applied on the materials is equal and comes from all directions (hence the term “isostatic”). When castings are treated with HIP, the simultaneous application of heat and pressure eliminates internal voids and microporosity through a combination of plastic deformation, creep, and diffusion bonding; this process improves fatigue resistance of the component.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189908", "title": "Mona Charen", "text": "Mona Charen\n\nMona Charen Parker (; born February 25, 1957) is a columnist, journalist, political commentator, and writer in the United States. She has written three books: \"Useful Idiots: How Liberals Got it Wrong in the Cold War and Still Blame America First\" (2003), \"Do-Gooders: How Liberals Hurt Those They Claim to Help (and the Rest of Us)\" (2005), both \"New York Times\" bestsellers, and \"Sex Matters: How Modern Feminism Lost Touch with Science, Love, and Common Sense\" (2018). She was also a weekly panelist on CNN's \"Capital Gang\" until it was canceled. A political conservative, she often writes about foreign policy, terrorism, politics, poverty, family structure, public morality, and culture. She is also known for her generally pro-Israel views.\n\nCharen was born in New York City and raised in Livingston, New Jersey, where she went to school with fellow journalist Ruth Marcus, starting \"in fourth grade.\" She is Jewish. She received her B.A. degree with honors from Barnard College in 1979 and a J.D. degree from The George Washington University Law School in 1984.\n\nCharen wrote for \"National Review\" magazine, where she was an editorial assistant starting in 1979. Later she joined the staff of First Lady Nancy Reagan as a speechwriter. She then worked on President Ronald Reagan's staff, in the White House Office of Public Liaison and in the Office of Communications.\n\nCharen served as Jack Kemp's speechwriter in his unsuccessful 1988 presidential bid. She launched her syndicated column in 1987. It is syndicated by Creators Syndicate and has been featured in more than 200 papers, including the \"Boston Globe\", \"Baltimore Sun\", \"St. Louis Post-Dispatch\", \"Atlanta Journal-Constitution\", and \"Washington Times\".\n\nCharen was a regular weekly commentator on CNN's \"The Capital Gang\", which appeared on Saturdays. Following an on-air heated exchange with fellow panelist Al Hunt, the two of them did not appear on the same panel for several weeks. Charen switched to \"Capital Gang Sunday\" when that program was launched, appearing until the program was canceled.\n\nHer columns also appear online at \"National Review Online\", TownHall.com, and the e-zine \"Jewish World Review\".\n\nIn 2010, Charen won the Eric Breindel Journalism Award. Currently, she appears regularly on John Batchelor's radio show.\n\nIn June 2014, she became a senior fellow at the Ethics and Public Policy Center.\n\nIn February 2018 she was invited to participate in a CPAC panel discussion. Her comments, which elicited boos and jeers from the audience, included the following:\n\nI am disappointed in people on our side for being hypocrites about sexual harassers and abusers of women, who are in our party, who are sitting in the White House, who brag about their extramarital affairs, who brag about mistreating women—and because he happens to have an 'R' after his name we look the other way ... This is a party that endorsed Roy Moore for the Senate in the state of Alabama even though he was a credibly accused child molester. You cannot claim that you stand for women and put up with that ... Speaking of bad guys, there was quite an interesting person who was on this stage the other day. Her name is Marion Le Pen. Now, why was she here? Why was she here? She's a young, no-longer-in-office politician from France. I think the only reason she was here is because she's named Le Pen. And the Le Pen name is a disgrace. Her grandfather is a racist and a Nazi. She claims that she stands for him. And the fact that CPAC invited her is a disgrace.\n\nCharen subsequently wrote a \"New York Times\" op-ed entitled \"I'm Glad I Got Booed at CPAC\".\n\nCharen is married to Robert P. Parker, a Washington, D.C. lawyer. They have three sons.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189912", "title": "Westbury-on-Trym", "text": "Westbury-on-Trym\n\nWestbury on Trym is a suburb and council ward in the north of the City of Bristol, near the suburbs of Stoke Bishop, Westbury Park, Henleaze, Southmead and Henbury, in the southwest of England.\n\nWith a village atmosphere, the place is partly named after the River Trym, which flows through it.\n\nThe origins of Westbury on Trym predate those of Bristol itself. At the end of the 8th century, King Offa of Mercia granted land at Westbury to his minister, Aethelmund. Later there was a monastery at Westbury, probably initially a secular one, with married clergy. This changed towards the end of the 10th century when Oswald of Worcester, in whose diocese the monastery lay, sent a party of 12 monks to follow more stringent rules at the Westbury monastery.\n\nThe architect Ednoth constructed a new church and other buildings.\nThe monastery became a college with a dean and canons at the end of the 13th century. It was rebuilt in the mid-15th century to resemble a miniature castle with turrets and a gatehouse. The Royalist Prince Rupert of the Rhine used it as his quarters during the English Civil War. When he left, in 1643, he ordered it to be set on fire so that the Parliamentarians could not make use of it. In the 20th century some of the college buildings were restored. Westbury College Gatehouse passed into the hands of the National Trust and the grounds were adapted for housing elderly people.\n\nThe current Church of the Holy Trinity dates from 1194 (although there has been a place of worship on the site since 717), with an early 13th century nave and aisles, and 15th century chancel, chapels and tower. It is a grade I listed building.\n\nThe ancient parish of Westbury on Trym was a large one. It included Stoke Bishop, Redland, a large exclave comprising Shirehampton and Avonmouth, and several smaller exclaves in the parish of Henbury. When the civil parish was created in 1866, Shirehampton was separated to form its own civil parish, and in 1894 Redland also became a separate civil parish. In 1904 the civil parish was abolished and absorbed into Bristol. Redland remained in the ecclesiastical parish of Westbury until 1942.\n\nDevelopment of the village into a large suburb of Bristol was started in the 1920s and was well underway by the 30s. Many detached and semi-detached villas were built in this period. Apart from during WW2, major house building did not cease until the 60s. \n\nFalcondale Road was constructed during the 1930s to act as a bypass to the narrow twisting streets of the old village. With the opening of the Filton Bypass in the late 30s, Falcondale Road acted as a major conduit for A38 holiday traffic going to and from the South West. However, when the Filton Bypass was split into two by the construction of the Brabazon Runway in the late 40s, A38 traffic had to be directed to the original route through Filton.\n\nWestbury on Trym High Street has three Indian and one Thai restaurants. There is also the Villager Restaurant (Modern English) at the end of College Road, eight pubs and several cafés. The village centre is well-served for shoppers, containing banks and independent stores including book shops, craft stores, hardware shops, florists, and a number of charity shops. Two free car parks are available and a medium-sized supermarket, built on the site of the previous Carlton cinema, above which there is a ladies only gym. During 2001, a large Sainsbury's was proposed, but the opposition to the plan was so strong from local villagers that the supermarket construction was eventually scrapped. In November 2013 a Tesco Metro opened on the site of a closed pub (The Foresters Tavern) just off the central War Memorial in the Village, its coming had been the subject of much discussion in the village and had been strongly opposed by many.\n\nSchools within the area include Elmlea Infant School, Elmlea Junior School, Bristol Free School and Westbury on Trym Church of England Academy. Independent schools include the prestigious girls' schools Badminton, which has taught pupils such as Indira Gandhi, Princess Haya of Jordan and the daughter of the Sultan of Brunei; Red Maids', the oldest surviving girls' school in England.\n\nA new doctors' surgery has been constructed for Westbury near to the Holy Trinity Church and the Westbury Hill Car Park. This replaces the previous surgery which was housed in a building on Falcondale Road.\n\nCanford Cemetery opened in 1903, acquiring a crematorium in 1957.\n\nTransport routes include the A4018, which runs from the city centre to Cribbs Causeway. Westbury is served by bus routes 1, 5, 20, 55, 501, 502, 508, 624, and service X14 also connects Westbury-on-Trym with Chepstow and Newport, South Wales. The nearest railway station is Sea Mills station at Sea Mills.\n\nThe wealthy Bristol merchant William Canynge was dean of Westbury College from 1469 to 1474.\n\nBishop John Carpenter (1399–1476) was an English Bishop, Provost and University Chancellor who was baptised and buried in St Peter's Church, now called Holy Trinity Church, Westbury on Trym. The Westbury Harriers club have adapted Bishop John Carpenter's arms to use as their \"crest.\"\n\nJohn Wedgwood, the horticulturist and eldest son of potter Josiah Wedgwood, lived at the old Cote House on the edge of Durdham Down from 1797 to 1806. The house, which had Gothic turrets and battlements, was demolished in 1925 to make way for retirement accommodation.\n\nThe poet Robert Southey, who later in his life became one of the Lake poets and the Poet Laureate, lived in the village for a year in 1798–99, during which he wrote his \"Eclogues\" and much other poetry. His social circle at the time included the Wedgwoods of Cote House and chemist Humphry Davy, who was also living in Bristol then. Southey took part in Davy's experiments with laughing gas.\n\nWilliam Pennefather (1816-1873), the Irish-born clergyman noted for his hymns and sermons, went to school here in the late 1820s.\n\nAmelia Edwards the traveller, novelist and Egyptologist lived in Eastfield, at the eastern end of the village, from c. 1864 to 1892.\n\nGeoff Gollop OBE, councillor for Westbury on Trym stood to become the first elected Mayor of Bristol in the elections of 15 November 2012 but was unsuccessful.\n\nCatherine B. Gulley an English watercolour portrait and genre painter lived at various addresses in Clifton and Westbury-on-Trym.\n\nDolly Tree the actress, illustrator and Hollywood costume designer was born here \n\nAlice Roberts Ex-Resident. Surfer, Anatomist, Osteoarchaeologist, and noted Humanist. T.V. include the Channel 4 series Time Team, and Digging for History, and Neanderthal.\n\nSunetra Sarker the actress lives in the area.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189914", "title": "Roseland (film)", "text": "Roseland (film)\n\nRoseland is a 1977 Merchant Ivory Productions' anthology film with a screenplay by Ruth Prawer Jhabvala. It was directed by James Ivory and produced by Ismail Merchant.\n\nThe film is made up of three connected short features: \"The Waltz\", \"The Hustle\" and \"The Peabody\". All three stories share a theme of the protagonists trying to find the right dance partner, and all are set in the Roseland Ballroom in New York City.\n\nAt Roseland, an older lady, May (Wright), with a light step, looks for the memory of her husband in the ballroom's mirrors. Stan (Jacobi), a cheerful older man steers May to brandy alexanders and away from her past.\n\nPauline (Copeland) is a middle-aged widow with the means to pay for the services of a younger gigolo, Russell (Walken) and share champagne with her Roseland friends, the dance teacher Cleo (Helen Gallagher) and the shy divorcee, Marilyn (Chaplin). Both Marilyn and Cleo fail to break Russell's attachment to the lifestyle that Pauline provides.\n\nRosa (Skala), a former Schrafft's cook and wannabe dance superstar makes it her mission to win the peabody prize with her older partner, Arthur (Thomas) who is desperate to marry her.\n\nLength: 104 minutes.\n\nRoseland was filmed in an almost pseudo-documentary style as an exploration of the lives of Roseland's customers. The vignettes are also purportedly based on true stories. Filming took place almost entirely in the Roseland Ballroom.\n\n\"The Washington Post\" explained that the film shows what \"is mostly the sadness and faded dreams of dancers who look like they were around the day the doors first opened.\" The review praised how Ivory \"effectively uses three romantic vignettes\" as well as the \"realistic\" dialogue. John Simon called Roseland a piece of vulgar and inept filmmaking.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189924", "title": "Lorianne Crook", "text": "Lorianne Crook\n\nLorianne Crook (born February 19, 1957) is an American radio and television host, producer and writer. She is best known for her work on The Nashville Network programs \"This Week In Country Music\" and \"Crook & Chase\" with Charlie Chase.\n\nCrook was born in Wichita, Kansas and grew up in Nashville, Tennessee. She is a graduate of McGavock High School in Nashville where she was a cheerleader. She graduated from Vanderbilt University with a Bachelor of Arts degree in Chinese and Russian languages.\n\nAn award-winning TV personality, Crook occasionally hosts \"Offstage with Lorianne Crook\", a series of in-depth conversations with major country music artists for Great American Country (GAC). Subjects have included Kenny Chesney and Trace Adkins, Phil Vassar, Cowboy Troy and the band Lonestar. For a brief time, she was co-host of \"Candid Camera\". Before her big break as a TV personality, she worked at KAUZ-TV, the CBS affiliate in Wichita Falls, Texas/Lawton, Oklahoma in the 1980s.\n\nCrook has been married since 1985 to television producer Jim Owens.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189928", "title": "Cooleyhighharmony", "text": "Cooleyhighharmony\n\nCooleyhighharmony is the debut album by American R&B group Boyz II Men, originally released in the United States by Motown Records on April 30, 1991.\n\nThe album was mainly written by Boyz II Men members Nathan Morris, Wanya Morris and Shawn Stockman and extensively produced by Dallas Austin. The album's name is a tribute to a real high school in Chicago: Cooley Vocational High School.\n\n\"Cooleyhighharmony\" debuted at #58 on the \"Billboard\" 200 and eventually peaked at #3. The album includes the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 Top 5 Singles, \"Motownphilly\" (#3) and \"It's So Hard to Say Goodbye to Yesterday\" (#2).\n\nThe album was re-released internationally in 1992 (1993 in the US) with remixes and the inclusion of two hit singles: the worldwide smash \"End of the Road\" from the \"Boomerang\" soundtrack and \"In the Still of the Nite (I'll Remember)\" which was initially recorded for the TV mini-series \"\". The US release also included a Spanish version of \"End of the Road\".\n\nIn 2009, a two-disc digitally remastered special edition of the album was released, containing remixes as well as two previously unreleased songs.\n\n\"Cooleyhighharmony\" has been certified 9× Platinum by the RIAA for shipments of over 9 million units in the US.\n\nGospel duo Dawkins & Dawkins incorporated one of their doo-wop melodies from \"Sympin'\" in \"No Doubt About It\" from their album \"Necessary Measures\".\n\nIn 2009, a two-disc digitally remastered special edition of the album was released by Hip-O Select Records. It contains the 1993 reissue version of the album, plus additional remixes and two previously unreleased tracks.\n\n\nRecording and engineering\n\nAdditional personnel\n\nMixing locations\n\n"}
{"id": "2189935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189935", "title": "1995 Russell Hill subway accident", "text": "1995 Russell Hill subway accident\n\nThe 1995 Russell Hill subway accident was a deadly train crash that occurred in Toronto, Ontario, Canada on Line 1 Yonge–University of the Toronto subway on August 11, 1995. Three people were killed and 30 were taken to hospital with injuries when one train rear-ended another train. The subway line was shut down for five days following the incident. Investigations found that human error and a design flaw in the mechanical safety devices caused this accident. It remains the deadliest accident in a rapid transit system in Canadian history.\n\nAt 6:02 p.m. on Friday, August 11, 1995, a subway train running southbound on Line 1 Yonge–University ran into the rear of a stationary train halfway between St. Clair West and Dupont stations. There were between 200 and 300 passengers on the two trains, of whom three (Christina Munar Reyes, 33; Kinga Szabo, 43; and Xian Hui Lin, 23) were killed and 30 taken to hospital with injuries; about 100 more later filed injury claims against the TTC. Many of the seriously injured were extracted from the twisted remains of the most damaged subway cars by rescue workers who worked through the evening under extremely hot and humid conditions. Of the four crew members, three were taken to hospital with injuries.\n\nThe accident had two direct causes: first the inexperienced driver, Robert Jeffrey, who mistook the signals; and the train stop which failed to protect the train due to a design error.\n\nAt the time of the accident, the TTC subway used conventional wayside signals without cab signalling. Thus drivers were expected to remember each signal aspect and act accordingly until they receive new information from the following signal. As of 2019, the TTC has converted some sections of the line, including the Russell Hill portion, to more modern automatic train control. The following description is limited to aspects relevant to the accident.\n\nSome signals are \"automatic\" and have a single head that shows one of the three basic colours. Red means stop and stay (until presented with a less restrictive signal aspect), yellow means that the next signal is red and the driver should prepare to stop, and green means that the next signal is not red and it is safe to proceed at normal speed.\n\n\"Interlocking\" or \"home\" signals have a double head and show two coloured lights. The top light has the same meaning as that of an automatic signal. The second light is red if the top light is red; otherwise it shows yellow if the switches are set for a secondary route, and green for the main route or if no relevant switches exist. Thus the combination yellow over green means the same as a single yellow.\n\nAt locations such as downgrades, curves, and switches, the same signals additionally serve to enforce speed limits. A system called \"grade timing\" regulates speeds, and is indicated by an additional \"lunar white\" light below the one or two coloured lights previously mentioned. The white light means that the next signal is red (or double red) \"only\" because of grade timing, and if the train approaches at the \"proper\" speed, the signal will clear to a less restrictive aspect before the train gets there. If the train goes too fast, it will pass the red signal and be stopped by the train stop.\n\nIn 1995 the second signal did not provide any confirmation that it was about to change and the operator was expected to remember the previous signal aspect correctly. With the tolerant attitudes of management, it had become common practice for operators to travel at the fastest speed that the system allowed, passing the signals at the same instant they were clearing.\n\nA long downgrade would therefore have several consecutive grade-timing sections. If all the signals were automatic and no trains were present, the first signal would be yellow over white, followed by a series of red over whites, and finally a red. When the train approaches each red over white signal, it would clear to yellow over white and the train stop would be lowered; and the final red signal would clear to green. Interlocking signals can also take part in grade timing, with aspects such as yellow over green over white (meaning the same as yellow over white).\n\nFrom St. Clair West to Dupont the subway runs continuously downhill and grade timing is used. The signal at the end of St. Clair West station, SP77/X38, is an interlocking signal and therefore shows yellow over green over white whenever there is nothing to delay a train. As Jeffrey's train passed the signal, however, it was showing yellow over green. He should have stopped at the following signal, SP71, which was red because another train was occupying the block ahead.\n\nAfter the accident Jeffrey said he remembered SP77/X38 as yellow over white (actually an impossible aspect for that signal) therefore he must have either \"misremembered\" it at the time, or else have been fooled by some reflection off the signal head into thinking he had seen the usual yellow over green over white. In any case, he believed that grade timing was in use and so approached signal SP71 at the same speed as he would normally drive on this section.\n\nAfter this Jeffrey did not remember what he had seen, but it is easy to reconstruct the events. When the train passed SP71 without him seeing it change, he must have assumed that he had passed it just as it cleared. He continued coasting downhill, still thinking that he was under grade timing and violated the signal, without realizing that if this was true, the signal would have shown red over white as he approached.\n\nHe must therefore have expected the third signal, (the SP65) to clear in the same way. Again it was showing red, not red over white, but Jeffrey repeated his mistake and violated the signal. He braked only when he actually saw the train just ahead (it was stopped at the next signal, SP53); by then, a collision was unavoidable.\n\nNews media accounts of the accident often say that Jeffrey \"passed three red lights.\" This count includes the repeater signal provided in advance of SP65 because a curve in the tunnel interferes with sighting. Drivers are not expected to stop at the repeater even if it is red.\n\nThe \"trip\" or \"train stop\" consists of a T-shaped arm placed just outside the right-hand rail near each signal (except a repeater). If the signal is red (or double red), with or without a lunar white, the trip arm rises enough for its crossbar to strike a \"trip valve\" or \"tripcock\" lever on the bottom of a train's first car as it passes; and by doing so triggers the emergency brakes of the train.\n\nOn the relevant class of trains, the trip valve is located near the centre of the right side of the leading bogie, where its position in relation to the rail is well controlled.\n\nWismer and Becker, Inc., the contractors who installed the signal system on the Spadina line portion of the subway, chose to use an Ericsson train stop that was designed to have the trip arm located in the middle of the track. A subcontractor, Gayle Manufacturing, designed a mechanical extension that would allow the device to drive a trip arm in its actual position outside of the rail.\n\nWhat was not realized was that the mechanism they designed (when the trip arm was raised) did not have the clearance specified for the train and therefore would not have the desired effect of activating the train's emergency braking system.\n\nWhen both the trip arm and trip valve were new, this did not matter; the train did not fill its entire clearance envelope, and the trip arm would contact the trip valve normally. However, with normal wear of the wheels and rails, and with the train rounding a curve at speed (and therefore riding off-centre) it was another matter. The first wheel on the right-hand side of the train hit a bolt in the mechanism attached to the trip arm and \"knocked the arm down\". It would then rise again, but too late: with the train moving quickly, the trip valve, just a few feet behind the wheel, would already have gone past, thus making the train stop useless for ensuring signal compliance.\n\nThe jury at the coroner's inquest produced 18 recommendations:\n\n\nThe 18 recommendations were taken by the TTC and turned into a 236-point \"Due Diligence Checklist\" of items to be addressed. Each year the Toronto Transit Commission receives a report on the outstanding items. By 2009, only 2 of the recommendations had yet to be completed. By 2015, all 236 recommendations had been implemented.\n\nThe TTC acted quickly following the accident to repair the defective modified Ericsson train stops. They also began requiring drivers to traverse grade-timing sections at a speed that would allow them to actually see the red signal change before they left the section.\n\nIn 1997 and 1998, the behaviour of the signals themselves was changed. Now, when a signal is red (or double red) only because of grade timing, the (top) red light begins flashing once a train has passed the preceding signal that displayed the lunar white light. The trip arm remains up during this phase, but the flashing red confirms to the driver that there was a lunar white on entry to the section and that the signal can be expected to clear at any moment. Jeffrey's mistaken interpretation of the red signal SP71 would no longer be possible.\n\nIn 2003, Toronto's Tarragon Theatre produced a play by Chris Earle, called \"Russell Hill\", about the incident.\n"}
{"id": "2189936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189936", "title": "Andy Leek", "text": "Andy Leek\n\nAndy Leek (born 1958) is a singer/songwriter, poet and musician, known for his work with Sir George Martin. He is an original member of Dexys Midnight Runners and played on the number one single \"Geno\". He has also written the single \"Twist in the Dark\" for Anni-Frid Lyngstad of Abba. His solo single \"Say Something\" reached the number 1 position in Lebanon during the civil war.\n\nLeek began his musical career while still at school in the progressive punk band The Wailing Cocks. The band released two singles on independent label Birds Nest, recorded two sessions for John Peel's Radio 1 show, Kid Jensen Live and Radio 2's in Concert Live. However, the band's career was cut short by the tragic death of their guitarist and Leek's best friend Alan Boyle.\n\nAt the age of 21, Leek joined Dexys Midnight Runners in late October 1979, playing on early recordings such as the hit single \"Geno\" and four other tracks on their debut album \"Searching for the Young Soul Rebels\". Just before the band were at No. 1 in the charts with this track, Leek left to be a solo artist, saying that he \"Really hating being famous all of a sudden ... Just because I've been on \"Top of the Pops\" doesn't mean I should get any more respect. I didn't want people asking for my autograph all of the time.\"\n\nTwo earlier songs Leek had recorded with the Wailing Cocks were then licensed to Beggars Banquet Records for release as a double-A-sided solo single: \"Move On (In Your Maserati)\" / \"Ruben Decides\". These were both played on Radio One and were single of the week in \"Sounds\".\n\nIn early 1981, Leek teamed up with fellow ex-Dexys member Kevin \"Al\" Archer in his new band The Blue Ox Babes in which Leek played piano, harmonium, harmonica and sung backing vocals.\n\nSome months later, on the strength of a demo tape of 16 new songs, Beggars Banquet paid for an album's worth of new material but this lay dormant until their belated release as \"Midnight Music\" on Leek's own Undiscovered Classics label in 2009. One song from these sessions, \"Twist in the Dark\", was recorded by Frida from ABBA for her 1984 solo album \"Shine\", via a recommendation from Leek's friend Kirsty MacColl. Frida's version was also issued as a single around the world and she described this song as \"her favourite song she had recorded outside of Abba\".\n\nFor the rest of the 1980s, Leek pursued his own career as a musician, as well as writing a musical interpretation of a Dylan Thomas poem which was recorded and released by Tom Jones, and acting alongside Billie Whitelaw and David Van Day as an aspiring songwriter in the Tony Klinger-produced 1985 movie \"Promo-Man\". A short-lived deal with indie label Fascination Records in 1984 led to two singles credited to Leek: \"Soul Darling\", with Specials producer Dave Jordan, and a version of ABBA's \"Dancing Queen\" produced by Tony Visconti .\n\nIn 1988, after signing a publishing and management contract with Hit n Run music, Atlantic Records in New York. Leek was honoured that, after hearing five of his tracks, George Martin had considered three of the five tracks as potential number 1's and he agreed to produce his 1988 album, \"Say Something\". It was recorded in Martin's A.I.R. Studios with such musicians as Steve Howe of Yes, Clem Clempson, Luís Jardim on percussion, Alan Murphy of Level 42 on guitar, Peter-John Vettese (keyboards, from Jethro Tull), and veteran bassist Mo Fostera 36 piece orchestra on various tracks and the London Community Gospel Choir on the \"Golden Doors\".\n\nGeorge Martin said that Andy \"was one of the greatest artists he had ever produced\". The first release from the album was \"Please Please\".\n\nIn 2007 a Lebanese DJ/Producer, called aXess, contacted Leek to request to do a Salsa remix of the track. \"Say Something\" which had reached the number 1 position in Lebanon during the civil war.\n\nLeek has since recorded three further albums, \"Eternity Beckons\" (including the single \"All Around The World\", which proved popular in Germany) the self-produced \"Sacrifice And Bliss\" (which yielded the single \"Forgotten People\") and Waking up the World (with the single of the same name) All of which are now being released on his own label. \"Eternity Beckons\" was also briefly available on a small Spanish label, Ouver Records. The song Forgotten people was also released on a compilation album which made it to number one in Spain.\nAfter a period studying musical composition at Cardiff University, Leek formed his own \"party band\" Andy Leek & The Blue Angels, mostly at charity balls. Leek has also appeared on various TV shows: The James Whale Show, Never Mind The Buzzcocks, Later with Jools Holland and Children in Need three years running.\n\nIn 2010, Leek remixed the album \"Say Something\" now entitled \"Say Something Revisited\" released with the single \"What's the Problem?\".\n\n22 years on in May 2013 Leek released a 16-track double concept album \"Waking up the World\" For this album each song has a sister song which reflects and explores the other side of its counterpart. This results in seven themes which tell a story of youth, experience, realisation and return.\n\nIn 2013 Leek started releasing his past music on YouTube with many lyric videos created.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189937", "title": "Lisa Bloom", "text": "Lisa Bloom\n\nLisa Read Bloom (\"née\" Bray; born September 22, 1961) is an American attorney known for representing women whose sexual harassment claims precipitated the firing of Bill O'Reilly from Fox News and for advising Harvey Weinstein amid sexual abuse allegations.\n\nBloom founded and owns the Bloom Firm, a civil rights law firm that has represented clients who include Kathy Griffin and Mischa Barton. Bloom was also the anchor of \"Lisa Bloom: Open Court\" (formerly \"Bloom and Politan: Open Court\"), a two-hour live legal news program on truTV's \"In Session\", from 2006 to 2009.\n\nBloom is the only child of civil rights attorney Gloria Allred and Peyton Huddleston Bray Jr.\n\nBloom was born Lisa Read Bray, the daughter of Gloria Bloom (later Allred) and father Peyton Huddleston Bray Jr. Her mother is of Jewish descent. Her parents' marriage was short-lived—they had married and divorced while in college. Peyton Bray, who suffered from bipolar disorder, later killed himself, and Bloom subsequently took her mother's maiden name. When Bloom was 7, her mother married William C. Allred. Bloom received a bachelor's degree from UCLA, where she graduated Phi Beta Kappa and was National College Debate Champion. She received her J.D. degree from Yale Law School in 1986.\n\nAfter graduating from law school, Bloom began her career in New York and by 1991 worked at her mother’s law firm, Allred, Maroko & Goldberg, assisting in unsuccessfully suing the Boy Scouts of America for sex discrimination on behalf of Katrina Yeaw, a girl who wanted to join the organization. While at her mother’s firm, Bloom also filed a child sexual abuse suit against the Roman Catholic Church and sued the LAPD.\n\nIn 2001, Bloom left her mother’s firm, having developed a career in cable news punditry, eventually serving as a legal analyst on CBS News, CNN, HLN, and MSNBC, and appearing on \"The Early Show\", \"The Insider\", \"Dr. Phil\", \"Dr. Drew\", \"The Situation Room\", \"Reliable Sources\", \"The Joy Behar Show\", \"Issues with Jane Velez-Mitchell\", and \"The Stephanie Miller Show\". Bloom returned to practicing law in 2010 when she founded the Bloom Firm, a small, general-practice law firm that handles family, civil and criminal matters. She is licensed to practice law in both New York and California.\n\nAt the Bloom Firm, Bloom has represented several notable clients, including model and actress Janice Dickinson in her defamation case against comedian Bill Cosby, as well as model and actress Mischa Barton in her revenge porn case. Model Blac Chyna later hired Bloom to obtain a temporary restraining order against socialite Rob Kardashian, with whom Chyna shares a daughter, Dream. Amid a series of sexual abuse allegations against powerful men in entertainment and media, and following a BuzzFeed report detailing a sexual harassment settlement paid out of Representative John Conyers’ office budget, Bloom represented Marion Brown, who spoke to BuzzFeed off the record and later came forward publicly to allege harassment by Conyers.\n\nIn 2017 Bloom represented three women accusing then-Fox News anchor Bill O’Reilly of sexual harassment. Jehmu Greene, a television commentator who had appeared on Fox News, also approached Bloom with sexual harassment allegations against O'Reilly, although she ultimately declined Bloom's services. One of Bloom's clients, Wendy Walsh, filed the complaint that led Fox News' parent company, 21st Century Fox, to initiate an investigation that resulted in O'Reilly's dismissal and the end of his eponymous program.\n\nDuring the 2016 U.S. presidential election, Bloom offered to represent four women who alleged sexual misconduct by then-presidential candidate Donald Trump. Two of these women came forward publicly with their allegations, including Jill Harth and Lisa Boyne, and two who did not, including a woman from Virginia and another woman who claimed Trump had raped her when she was thirteen years old.\n\nOn November 2, 2016, Bloom canceled a press conference with the unnamed client, saying the client was scared because of death threats. According to Bloom, after this press conference, multiple donors contacted her with offers to cover accusers' relocation and security. Bloom felt an obligation to relay the offers to her clients. The Virginia woman said that donors had offered her as much as $750,000, but that she declined the offer. In a 2017 report, \"The New York Times\" identified the donors who contacted Bloom as David Brock's American Bridge 21st Century, which offered $200,000, and Susie Tompkins Buell, who offered $500,000.\n\nBloom received significant media attention after film producer Harvey Weinstein was accused of sexual misconduct in October 2017. While noting that Weinstein \"denies many of the accusations as patently false,\" Bloom acknowledged advising Weinstein on power dynamics and harassment, calling him \"an old dinosaur learning new ways.\" Bloom's advisory role, which she assumed in late 2016, was pilloried for its dissonance with her prior representation of sexual assault victims, with some in the media calling her book adaptation deal with The Weinstein Company, signed during Weinstein's tenure as co-chairman, a conflict of interest.\n\nOn October 7, 2017, two days after the initial article on sexual misconduct in \"The New York Times\", Bloom stepped down from her advisory role amid mounting public criticism and friction with The Weinstein Company's board. According to emails obtained by \"The New York Times\", Bloom had weighed responding to allegations against Weinstein with \"photos of several of the accusers in very friendly poses with Harvey after his alleged misconduct.\" Bloom denied plotting to undermine the accusers. \"The Daily Beast\" later reported that Bloom had offered journalist Ronan Farrow opposition research on one of Weinstein's accusers, Rose McGowan, during his own reporting on Weinstein. In Farrow's 2019 book, he further claims that Bloom would report any information gleaned about his investigation back to Weinstein, and that she admitted to being \"his people\". A 2019 book by reporters Jodi Kantor and Megan Twohey contains a 2016 memo from Bloom, as well as 2017 billing statements for services rendered on Weinstein's behalf. These documents show how Bloom would proactively assist Weinstein in undermining his accusers. \n\nShortly after resigning from Weinstein's team, Bloom fell victim to \"email prankster\" James Linton masquerading as Weinstein. In reply to the prankster, Bloom wrote that \"[t]he new round of far more serious allegations were not made known to me\". \"Variety\" later reported that Bloom \"was only aware of accusations of verbal remarks, behaviors, and temper tantrums\" when she began advising Weinstein, and was unaware of more serious allegations of rape and sexual assault. Within weeks of the initial report in \"The New York Times\", Bloom publicly apologized for her role advising Weinstein.\n\nBloom also represented former Amazon Studios president Roy Price amid sexual harassment allegations, but said her representation of Price concluded before Price's accuser Isa Hackett \"went public\". \"The Daily Beast\" reported that Bloom, while representing Price, had attempted to disparage Kim Masters, \"The Hollywood Reporter\"'s Editor-at-Large, to media outlets considering publishing Masters' report on the allegations against Price. Bloom had allegedly accused Masters of a conflict of interest for badgering Price to advertise on her KCRW show, a charge Masters denied.\n\nFollowing a controversial 2017 photo shoot in which comedienne Kathy Griffin clenched a severed and bloodied mask that resembled the face of President Donald Trump, Bloom held a joint press conference with Griffin, then her client, to address the controversy. Their appearance was widely panned in the media for its self-victimization and lack of focus.\n\nAmid fallout over Bloom's role advising Harvey Weinstein, Griffin posted a Facebook video denouncing Bloom and her husband, Braden Pollock, for \"exacerbat[ing] my personal situation\". Griffin later publicly asked Bloom to stop calling her and denounced Bloom for \"fame-whoring,\" a criticism of Bloom's proposal for a joint media tour following their joint press conference. According to Griffin, Bloom also charged exorbitant legal fees, which Griffin estimated were $40,000 for two days' representation, including by defense attorney Dmitry Gorin, whom Bloom allegedly hired without Griffin's consent. In response to Griffin's comments, Bloom claimed she \"had no idea there was a problem\" and released a statement criticizing Griffin for speaking extemporaneously at their press conference. Bloom nevertheless wished Griffin well.\n\nFollowing Griffin's own comments on Bloom, Tamara Holder, a former Bloom client, and Jehmu Greene, who had considered hiring Bloom, came forward with their own criticisms. Holder had retained Bloom after accusing Fox News Latino Vice President Francisco Cortes of sexual assault. According to Holder, Bloom proposed an initial retainer agreement granting herself 40% of any settlement, as well as a $10,000 retainer fee and reimbursement for any relevant hotel and travel expenses. Although Holder ultimately negotiated a more favorable contract, she criticized Bloom for charging thousands of dollars in extraneous fees, as well as pushing Holder to accept a gag order in her settlement with Fox News. For her part, Greene called Bloom \"deceptive\" for presenting her with a contract for media representation after a meeting focused primarily on legal services. Bloom responded to both allegations by claiming that \"the vast majority of [the Bloom Firm's] clients are delighted with our work\".\n\nIn October 2014, Carol Swanson Chitwood (n/k/a Carol Swanson Smith) retained Lisa Bloom and the Bloom Firm to pursue domestic violence claims against her then-husband, Martin Chitwood, a prominent Atlanta attorney, who had sued her for divorce in Atlanta two months earlier. While the divorce was still pending, Bloom filed suit against Martin Chitwood in California asserting domestic violence claims on Carol Chitwood’s behalf. Martin Chitwood denied the allegations, claiming they were a tactic to prevent the enforcement of the parties' prenuptial agreement and force a settlement.\n\nMartin Chitwood refused to settle, and on August 31, 2017, after a five-week civil trial, a twelve-person jury found him not liable for the claim Bloom brought against him. Bloom did not appeal.\n\nBloom and her firm are representing male model Jason Boyce in his lawsuit against fashion photographer Bruce Weber among other people in New York State Supreme Court in December 2017.\n\nOn May 1st 2020, Bloom posted on Twitter that although she believed Tara Reade was assaulted by the former vice president Joe Biden, she would still support Biden. \n\nBloom married her current husband, Braden Pollock, on December 5, 2014. Pollock is the founder of Legal Brand Marketing and now works as the Bloom Firm's manager; he is also on the board of Epik, a web services company known for providing services to far-right websites. Bloom lives with her husband and a foster son in Los Angeles. Bloom has two adult children, daughter Sarah Wong Bloom and son Samuel \"Sam/Sammy\" Wong, with her former husband Jim Wong, a LAUSD teacher. A vegetarian since 16, Bloom has been vegan since 2009. Although her father was not Jewish, Bloom is.\n\nBloom has written three books, including \"Think: Straight Talk for Women to Stay Smart in a Dumbed-Down World\", from 2011, and \"Swagger: 10 Urgent Rules for Raising Boys in an Era of Failing Schools, Mass Joblessness, and Thug Culture\", from 2012. In early 2017, The Weinstein Company and Jay-Z announced plans to adapt Bloom's 2014 book, \"Suspicion Nation: The Inside Story of the Trayvon Martin Injustice and Why We Continue to Repeat It\", into a six-part documentary series. The status of the project is unknown following turmoil at the Weinstein Company.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189949", "title": "Corner solution", "text": "Corner solution\n\nA corner solution is a special solution to an agent's maximization problem in which the quantity of one of the arguments in the maximized function is zero. In non-technical terms, a corner solution is when the chooser is either unwilling or unable to make a tradeoff. \n\nIn economics when someone says \"I wouldn't buy that at any price\" or \"I will do X no matter the cost\", those are corner solutions. Another example is \"zero-tolerance\" policies, or parents who are unwilling to expose their children to any risk, no matter how small and no matter what the benefits of the activity might be. \"Nothing is more important than my child's safety\" is a corner solution in its refusal to admit there might be tradeoffs. The term \"corner solution\" is sometimes used by economists in a more colloquial fashion to refer to these sorts of situations. The word \"corner\" refers to the fact that if one graphs the maximization problem, the optimal point will occur at the \"corner\" created by the budget constraint and one axis.\n\nA corner solution is an instance where the \"best\" solution (i.e. maximizing profit, or utility, or whatever value is sought) is achieved based not on the market-efficient maximization of related quantities, but rather based on brute-force boundary conditions. Such a solution lacks mathematical elegance, and most examples are characterized by externally forced conditions (such as \"variables \"x\" and \"y\" cannot be negative\") that put the actual local extrema outside the permitted values.\n\nAnother technical way to state it is that a corner solution is a solution to a minimization or maximization problem where the non-corner solution is infeasible, that is, not in the domain. Instead, the solution is a corner solution on an axis where either \"x\" or \"y\" is equal to zero. For instance, from the example above in economics, if the maximal utility of two goods is achieved when the quantity of goods \"x\" and \"y\" are (−2, 5), and the utility is subject to the constraint \"x\" and \"y\" are greater than or equal to 0 (one cannot consume a negative quantity of goods) as is usually the case, then the actual solution to the problem would be a corner solution where \"x\" = 0.\n\nThe more usual solution will lie in the non-zero interior at the point of tangency between the objective function and the constraint. For example, in consumer theory the objective function is the indifference-curve map (the utility function) of the consumer. The budget line is the constraint. In the usual case, constrained utility is maximized on the budget constraint with strictly positive quantities consumed of both goods. For a corner solution, however, utility is maximized at a point on one axis where the budget constraint intersects the highest attainable indifference curve at zero consumption for one good with all income used for the other good. Furthermore, a range of lower prices for the good with initial zero consumption may leave quantity demanded unchanged at zero, rather than increasing it as in the more usual case.\n\n"}
{"id": "2189955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189955", "title": "Agia Paraskevi, Lesbos", "text": "Agia Paraskevi, Lesbos\n\nAgia Paraskevi (, also \"Ayia Paraskevi\") is a village and a former municipality on the island of Lesbos, North Aegean, Greece. Since the 2011 local government reform it is part of the municipality Lesbos, of which it is a municipal unit. It is located in the central part of the island, on the northeast shore of the Bay of Kalloni \n\nThe village (ai vre kalp, diavol' pathimene) (pop. 2,195 at the 2011 census) is named after the \"Church of Agia Paraskevi\", which is found in a cave in one of the highest points of the town. The town cemetery is also located here. Presumably built over an old pagan temple, there is a well in the cave, and drinking the water from this well has been said to have conferred the Virgin Mary's protection. Agia Paraskevi is an old village that is becoming a powerful cultural and economic center for the island. The village is known for its old mansions, unique architecture and for its festivals. It is often referred to as the « Little Paris of the Aegean » (μικρό Παρίσι), due to its quaint agora and stunning architecture.\n\nThe village contains many traditional houses that shows the Venetian and Roman occupation of the island and is a rare, non-commercialized, non-tourist village — locals sit at tavernas that line the main street and socialize. The people are quite friendly and get around on foot, moped, horse, mule, or donkey; however, the automobile has largely supplanted animals as the main mode of transportation of both people and farm produce. \n\nNear the village at Klopedi, are the remains of the ancient Aeolian temple of Napaios Apollo, while Messa, also nearby, boasts the ruins of a big Ionian temple (late 4th–early 3rd century BC), possibly dedicated to three Greek deities: Zeus, Hera and Dionysos. A monument from a later date, the Early Christian basilica of St. George, restored by the noted mediaevalist, Professor A. Orlandos, may be seen at Halinados, not far away. \n\nThe school building of Agia Paraskevi is of neoclassical architecture of the early 20th century (1922-1930s), has a rectangular \"U\" ground-plan shape, and shows a perfect symmetry at its openings. The formation of the school-yard area is also very significant. The construction of the school building, one of the most attractive on the island, was financed by revenues from the town’s oil-press, which today has been transformed into a multi-cultural center. \n\nThe oil press of Agia Paraskevi is a complex of stone-built buildings that serves as a characteristic sample of exceptional industrial architecture of the early 20th century (1910) on the island. Initially, it had been operating as an industrial complex (oil-press and corn-mill) and later on, until 1967, it ran as a community business. In 1984, with the support of the Prefecture of Lesbos, it was restored and transformed into a cultural center. The central building was turned into a multi-cultural hall with a 400-seat capacity, the oil storehouses were converted to a folk art museum while the 11 olives’ storehouses were transformed into modern guest-houses. \n\nThe only other significant town in the municipal unit of Agía Paraskeví is Nápi (pop. 263), about 3 km to the northeast. In the latest census in 2011 the municipal unit had 2,497 residents. Its land area is 117.697 km².\n"}
{"id": "2189967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189967", "title": "Leontief production function", "text": "Leontief production function\n\nIn economics, the Leontief production function or fixed proportions production function is a production function that implies the factors of production will be used in fixed (technologically pre-determined) proportions, as there is no substitutability between factors. It was named after Wassily Leontief and represents a limiting case of the constant elasticity of substitution production function.\n\nFor the simple case of a good that is produced with two inputs, the function is of the form\n\nwhere \"q\" is the quantity of output produced, \"z\" and \"z\" are the utilised quantities of input 1 and input 2 respectively, and \"a\" and \"b\" are technologically determined constants.\n\nSuppose that the intermediate goods \"tires\" and \"steering wheels\" are used in the production of automobiles (for simplicity of the example, to the exclusion of anything else). Then in the above formula \"q\" refers to the number of automobiles produced, \"z\" refers to the number of tires used, and \"z\" refers to the number of steering wheels used. Assuming each car is produced with 4 tires and 1 steering wheel, the Leontief production function is\n\n"}
{"id": "2189971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189971", "title": "Judy Nelson", "text": "Judy Nelson\n\nJudy Hill Nelson is an American author best known for her 1983–1991 romance (while married) with and eventual palimony suit against women's tennis star Martina Navratilova. After their break-up, Nelson was the author of the books \"Love Match: Nelson vs. Navratilova\", chronicling her relationship with the tennis star, and \"Choices: My Journey After Leaving My Husband for Martina and a Lesbian Life\", chronicling her coming out as a lesbian in the mid-1980s.\n\nShe is the mother of two sons.\n"}
{"id": "2189975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189975", "title": "Comfort noise", "text": "Comfort noise\n\nComfort noise (or comfort tone) is synthetic background noise used in radio and wireless communications to fill the artificial silence in a transmission resulting from voice activity detection or from the audio clarity of modern digital lines.\n\nSome modern telephone systems (such as wireless and VoIP) use voice activity detection (VAD), a form of squelching where low volume levels are ignored by the transmitting device. In digital audio transmissions, this saves bandwidth of the communications channel by transmitting nothing when the source volume is under a certain threshold, leaving only louder sounds (such as the speaker's voice) to be sent. However, improvements in background noise reduction technologies can occasionally result in the complete removal of all noise. Although maximizing call quality is of primary importance, exhaustive removal of noise may not properly simulate the typical behavior of terminals on the PSTN system.\n\nThe result of receiving total silence, especially for a prolonged period, has a number of unwanted effects on the listener, including the following:\n\nTo counteract these effects, comfort noise is added, usually on the receiving end in wireless or VoIP systems, to fill in the silent portions of transmissions with artificial noise. The noise generated is at a low but audible volume level, and can vary based on the average volume level of received signals to minimize jarring transitions.\n\nIn many VoIP products, users may control how VAD and comfort noise are configured, or disable the feature entirely.\n\nAs part of the RTP audio video profile, RFC 3389 defines a standard for distributing comfort noise information in VoIP systems.\n\nA similar concept is that of sidetone, the effect of sound that is picked up by a telephone's mouthpiece and introduced (at low level) into the earpiece of the same handset, acting as feedback.\n\nDuring the siege of Leningrad, the beat of a metronome was used as comfort noise on the Leningrad radio network, indicating that the network was still functioning.\n\nMany radio stations broadcast birdsong, city-traffic or other atmospheric comfort noise during periods of deliberate silence. For example, in the UK, silence is observed on Remembrance Sunday, and London's quiet city ambiance is used. This is to reassure the listener that the station is on-air, but primarily to prevent silence detection systems at transmitters from automatically starting backup tapes of music (designed to be broadcast in the case of transmission link failure).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189984", "title": "Liam Daish", "text": "Liam Daish\n\nLiam Sean Daish (born 23 September 1968) is a former footballer who played as a centre-half. Despite being born in England, Daish played internationally for the Republic of Ireland due to his Irish ancestry. He earned a total of five caps for his adopted country.\n\nAlthough Daish's playing career was shortened by a knee injury in 2002, he continued his football career as a manager and coach. He was appointed Nuneaton Town manager on 22 September 2014, replacing Brian Reid.\n\nDaish was born in Portsmouth, Hampshire, and began his career with his hometown club Portsmouth F.C. However, he only made one appearance for the club's first team before he was released in 1988. He went in search of first-team football, which he found at Cambridge United. While at Cambridge, Daish helped the club to successive promotions from the Fourth to the Second Division. He also made his international debut for the Republic of Ireland, on 19 February 1992 at home to Wales, while Cambridge were pushing for a third successive promotion. However, they fell in the playoffs and were relegated a year later.\n\nThe quality of his performances for Cambridge United inspired Barry Fry to sign him for Birmingham City for a fee of £50,000 in January 1994.\n\nDaish spent just over two years at St Andrew's, making nearly 100 appearances in all competitions. He captained the side to the Division Two championship in 1994–95 and to victory in the Football League Trophy final at Wembley. Fry, who managed him throughout his spell at Birmingham, once said of Daish that if a squadron of F-111s attacked the Birmingham penalty area he would attempt to head them away.\n\nIn February 1996, Daish joined Coventry City for a fee of £1.5 million. He made an immediate impact, bolstering Coventry's shaky defence and improving their form overall. However, in the four seasons that he spent at Coventry, Daish was never a regular in the first team (he played in only 34 games for the Sky Blues). This was the result of a severe knee ligament injury which eventually forced his retirement from the professional game after two years on the sidelines.\n\nHe joined non-league Havant & Waterlooville in 1999, going on to make 157 appearances (1 as substitute) in league and cup competitions, scoring 15 goals,\nbefore his playing career was finally ended by a knee injury sustained in October 2002.\nIn April 2000 he took on a joint-manager role alongside Mick Jenkins after Billy Gilbert stood down. He spent three-and-a-half years in this role, during which time he took the club to the semi-final of the FA Trophy in 2003, before being sacked in January 2004 following a string of bad results.\nFollowing this, he joined Welling United F.C. as a coach. For a time, following the dismissal of Paul Parker, Daish served as caretaker-manager of Welling but did not get the job full-time, despite leading the side to three wins and a draw in his four games in charge.\n\nDaish left Welling in February 2005 to become manager of Gravesend & Northfleet F.C., which in May 2007 was renamed Ebbsfleet United F.C., and he oversaw the club's move to a full-time playing squad.\n\nDaish led Ebbsfleet United to a 1–0 victory in the FA Trophy final on 10 May 2008, and for two seasons running made the Fleet a contender for the Conference National promotion play-offs. His profile was raised by the takeover of Ebbsfleet by MyFootballClub, although the website's initial boasts that its members – and not Daish – would pick the team had as of 22 May 2010 yet to come to fruition.\n\nDaish left Ebbsfleet by mutual consent after discussions with new owners and eight years in charge on 17 May 2013.\n\nDaish joined Conference Premier side Nuneaton Town on 22 September 2014 as first-team manager. He left the club on 25 April 2015 following the club's relegation from the Conference Premier. He now works for the football academy at Brockenhurst College\n\n\nOn 10 December 1994, Daish – then Birmingham City captain under Barry Fry – scored a goal against Chester to make it 0–4. In the ensuing celebrations, some Blues fan threw a toy trumpet onto the pitch, which Daish proceeded to play. Although he wasn't sent off, the referee booked him, taking his season's points tally to 41 and resulting in a three-match ban. Fry was not amused: \"I know the referee has directives to adhere to, but to get banned through being booked for that seems a bit harsh.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189987", "title": "Complete market", "text": "Complete market\n\nIn economics, a complete market (aka Arrow-Debreu market or complete system of markets) is a market with two conditions:\n\n\nIn such a market, the complete set of possible bets on future states of the world can be constructed with existing assets without friction. Here, goods are state-contingent; that is, a good includes the time and state of the world in which it is consumed. For instance, an umbrella tomorrow if it rains is a distinct good from an umbrella tomorrow if it is clear. The study of complete markets is central to state-preference theory. The theory can be traced to the work of Kenneth Arrow (1964), Gérard Debreu (1959), Arrow & Debreu (1954) and Lionel McKenzie (1954). Arrow and Debreu were awarded the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economics (Arrow in 1972, Debreu in 1983), largely for their work in developing the theory of complete markets and applying it to the problem of general equilibrium.\n\nA state of the world is a complete specification of the values of all relevant variables over the relevant time horizon. A state-contingent claim, or state claim, is a contract whose future payoffs depend on future states of the world. For example, suppose you can bet on the outcome of a coin toss. If you guess the outcome correctly, you will win one dollar, and otherwise you will lose one dollar. A bet on heads is a state claim, with payoff of one dollar if heads is the outcome, and payoff of negative one dollar if tails is the outcome. \"Heads\" and \"tails\" are the states of the world in this example. A state-contingent claim can be represented as a payoff vector with one element for each state of the world, e.g. (payoff if heads, payoff if tails). So a bet on heads can be represented as ($1, −$1) and a bet on tails can be represented as (−$1, $1). Notice that by placing one bet on heads and one bet on tails, you have a state-contingent claim of ($0, $0); that is, the payoff is the same regardless of which state of the world occurs.\n\nThe bet on a coin toss is a simplistic example but illustrates widely applicable concepts, especially in finance. If markets are complete, it is possible to arrange a portfolio with any conceivable payoff vector. That is, the state claims available for purchase, represented as payoff vectors, span the payoff space. A \"pure security\" or simple contingent claim is a state claim that pays off in only one state. Any state-contingent claim can be regarded as a collection of pure securities. A system of markets is complete if and only if the number of attainable pure securities equals the number of possible states. Formally, a market is complete with respect to a trading strategy, formula_1, if there exists a self-financing trading strategy, formula_2 such that at any time formula_3, the returns of the two strategies, formula_1 and formula_2 are equal. This is equivalent to stating that for a complete market, all cash flows for a trading strategy can be replicated using a similar synthetic trading strategy. Because a trading strategy can be simplified into a set of simple contingent claims (strategies paying 1 in one state and 0 in every other state), a complete market can be generalized as the ability to replicate cash flows of all simple contingent claims.\n\nIn order for a market to be complete, it must be possible to \"instantaneously\" enter into any position regarding any future state of the market. In contrast, a market is called dynamically complete if it is possible to construct a self-financing trading strategy that will have the same cash-flow. In other words, a complete market allows you to place all of your bet at once, while a dynamically complete market may require that you execute subsequent trades after making your initial investment. The requirement that the strategy be self-financing means that subsequent trades must be cash-flow neutral (you cannot contribute or withdraw any additional funds). Any complete market is also dynamically complete.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2189989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189989", "title": "Sodium pareth sulfate", "text": "Sodium pareth sulfate\n\nSodium pareth sulfate is a surfactant found in some detergent products such as hand or body washes, but not as commonly as other chemicals such as sodium laureth sulfate (SLES). It is produced similarly to SLES starting from fatty alcohols with 10 to 16 carbon atoms.\n"}
{"id": "2189999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189999", "title": "William James Major", "text": "William James Major\n\nWilliam James Major (November 10, 1881—August 13, 1953) was a politician in Manitoba, Canada. He served in the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba from 1927 to 1941, and was a prominent cabinet minister in the government of John Bracken.\n\nMajor was born in Yeovil, Somerset, England, worked in the law office of Athelstan Rendall and migrated to Canada in 1901. He was educated in Manitoba, was called to the Manitoba Bar in 1913, and worked as a barrister-at-law. He also became active as a freemason.\n\nMajor was chosen as a star candidate of the governing Progressive Party in the 1927 provincial election. In this period of Canadian history, newly appointed cabinet ministers were required to resign their seats and seek the renewed support of their electorate. This was inconvenient for most government leaders, who frequently circumvented the regulation by appointing or shuffling cabinet ministers just before general elections. Major, despite his lack of political experience, was named as Bracken's Attorney General on April 29, 1927, and fought the election in this capacity. He proved an effective campaigner and was elected for Winnipeg, which returned ten members through the single transferable ballot voting method.\n\nAs Attorney General, Major oversaw construction of the Headingly jail and designed a liquor control act that lasted into the 1950s. He began an extensive revision project of the province's magisterial system in 1930, and was finally able to present his finished report to the legislature in 1940.\n\nIn 1929, Major and fellow cabinet minister William Clubb became caught up in a conflict-of-interest controversy involving the Winnipeg Electric Company (WEC). Both ministers had purchased shares in the company while negotiations for a government lease were still pending. It may be noted that opposition legislators had also purchased WEC stock during this period, and that Clubb's shares were in fact purchased by prominent Conservative legislator John Thomas Haig. Bracken initially defended both ministers, but was forced to call for their resignations on February 22, 1929.\n\nBracken did not judge the offence to be a serious transgression, and returned both Major and Clubb to their cabinet positions on May 18. On December 31, Major was also named as Minister of Telegraphs and Telephones.\n\nThe Progressives and Liberals of Manitoba formed an alliance for the 1932 provincial election, after which time government members became known as \"Liberal-Progressives\". Major endorsed this alliance, and was handily re-elected in Winnipeg. He was retained in both portfolios after the election.\n\nMajor emerged as a prominent Liberal-Progressive campaigner in the 1936 election, stressing the Bracken administration's record of fiscal prudence and successful management. He finished fourth on the first count in Winnipeg, and was re-elected on the sixteenth count. He again retained his previous portfolios, and also served as Manitoba's Municipal Commissioner from September 21, 1936 to November 22, 1939.\n\nOn November 4, 1940, Bracken's Liberal-Progressives entered a four-party coalition government with the Conservatives, the Cooperative Commonwealth Federation and the Social Credit League. Major continued to serve as Attorney-General and Minister of Telephones and Telegraphs, and was given additional responsibilities as Minister of Dominion-Provincial Relations.\n\nHe was appointed to the Court of the King's Bench just prior to the 1941 provincial election, and resigned his cabinet positions on April 1, 1941. He also headed the Greater Winnipeg Co-ordinating War Services Board during World War II, and led Manitoba's Red Cross campaign in the same period.\n\nMajor served as a member of the court until 1951, when he was forced to resign due to ill health. He died at home in Winnipeg two years later.\n"}
{"id": "2190008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190008", "title": "Shephard's lemma", "text": "Shephard's lemma\n\nShephard's lemma is a major result in microeconomics having applications in the theory of the firm and in consumer choice. The lemma states that if indifference curves of the expenditure or cost function are convex, then the cost minimizing point of a given good (formula_1) with price formula_2 is unique. The idea is that a consumer will buy a unique ideal amount of each item to minimize the price for obtaining a certain level of utility given the price of goods in the market.\n\nThe lemma is named after Ronald Shephard who gave a proof using the distance formula in his book \"Theory of Cost and Production Functions\" (Princeton University Press, 1953). The equivalent result in the context of consumer theory was first derived by Lionel W. McKenzie in 1957. It states that the partial derivatives of the expenditure function with respect to the prices of goods equal the Hicksian demand functions for the relevant goods. Similar results had already been derived by John Hicks (1939) and Paul Samuelson (1947).\n\nIn consumer theory, Shephard's lemma states that the demand for a particular good formula_1 for a given level of utility formula_4 and given prices formula_5, equals the derivative of the expenditure function with respect to the price of the relevant good:\n\nwhere formula_7 is the Hicksian demand for good formula_1, formula_9 is the expenditure function, and both functions are in terms of prices (a vector formula_5) and utility formula_4.\n\nLikewise, in the theory of the firm, the lemma gives a similar formulation for the conditional factor demand for each input factor: the derivative of the cost function formula_12 with respect to the factor price:\n\nwhere formula_14 is the conditional factor demand for input formula_1, formula_12 is the cost function, and both functions are in terms of factor prices (a vector formula_17) and output formula_18.\n\nAlthough Shephard's original proof used the distance formula, modern proofs of the Shephard's lemma use the envelope theorem.\n\nThe proof is stated for the two-good case for ease of notation. The expenditure function formula_19 is the minimand of the constrained optimization problem characterized by the following Lagrangian:\n\nBy the envelope theorem the derivatives of the minimand formula_19 with respect to the parameter formula_22 can be computed as such:\n\nwhere formula_24 is the minimizer (i.e. the Hicksian demand function for good 1). This completes the proof.\n\nShephard's lemma gives a relationship between expenditure (or cost) functions and Hicksian demand. The lemma can be re-expressed as Roy's identity, which gives a relationship between an indirect utility function and a corresponding Marshallian demand function.\n\n"}
{"id": "2190010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190010", "title": "Petarded", "text": "Petarded\n\n\"Petarded\" is the sixth episode of the fourth season of the American animated television series \"Family Guy\". It originally aired on Fox in the United States on June 19, 2005. It was written by Alec Sulkin and Wellesley Wild and directed by Seth Kearsley. In the episode Peter takes the MacArthur Fellows Program test to see if he is a genius. However, he performs so poorly that he is declared technically mentally retarded. Attempting to take advantage of the situation, he accidentally hospitalizes Lois while attempting to steal from a restaurant and loses custody of Meg, Chris, and Stewie.\n\nThe episode's title is a double entendre, being both portmanteau between \"Peter\" and \"Retarded\" and also a reference to the Shakespeare-coined phrase \"hoist with his own petard.\" This title practice would later be used on a few more episodes, namely \"Peterotica\" and \"Petergeist\".\n\n\"Timer\", a character from 1970s Saturday morning public service announcements, made an appearance in the episode. Series producers tried to get Lennie Weinrib, the actor who had voiced him in the original cartoon segments, to make a guest appearance in the episode. However, Weinrib declined reprising the role as he could not accurately recall the character. \"Petarded\" gained a Nielsen rating of 4.4, making it the week's 42nd most-watched program. Critics and news sources responded with high praise and many regard this episode as \"Family Guy\"s best. Various scenes in the episode were removed by broadcast censors, including one musical number (\"Peter is Slow\"). It features the guest performances of LeVar Burton, Gary Cole, Barclay DeVeau, Indigo, Phil LaMarr, Cloris Leachman, Len Maxwell, Natasha Melnick, Nicole Sullivan, and Lisa Wilhoit, as well as several recurring voice actors for the series.\n\nThe Griffins invite their neighbors over for game night. While playing \"Trivial Pursuit\", Lois uses questions from the preschool edition for Peter in order to let him win. When Peter wins, he brags to everyone, believing himself to be smarter than everyone else. Irritated at Peter's arrogance, Brian challenges Peter to take the MacArthur Fellows Program test to prove he is a genius. The results of the test show that Peter is not a genius; in fact, the results show that, technically speaking, Peter is \"mentally retarded.\" Peter sinks into depression after being publicly labeled as retarded. While driving home with Lois, Peter accidentally knocks down Tom Tucker. Tucker, recognizing Peter as \"the retarded fellow,\" does not press charges, and Peter realizes his condition means he can get away with anything.\n\nWhile testing the limits of what he can get away with, such as interrupting church attendants by having a Bible fight, kicking open the stall doors in a girls' bathroom, and saying \"testicles\" through a microphone at a fast food restaurant, Peter goes behind the counter and sees a \"Fryolator\" and wants to take it home. However, he accidentally drenches Lois with boiling oil. While she is recovering, Child Protection Services take away Peter's custody of Meg, Chris, and Stewie on the grounds that Peter is mentally unfit to look after them. The three are placed in the care of Cleveland. When Brian tells Peter that he just has to show that he is a good parent, Peter thinks that the best way to do that is to show what a bad parent Cleveland is, so he brings seven prostitutes into Cleveland’s house. This does not work as Agent Jessup sees through the plot and Cleveland orders Peter and five of the prostitutes out. In a last attempt, he appeals to the court for custody of his kids, but he is denied and avoids imprisonment only because the judge forgets that prisons exist.\n\nAfter returning home and accepting that the Griffins may never be together again, Lois walks in, revealing she has completely recovered and reobtained custody of the kids. Peter is overjoyed that everything is back to normal, as well as the fact that Lois will smell like French fries for the next six months.\n\n\"Petarded\" was written by Alec Sulkin and Wellesley Wild and directed by former \"The Goode Family\" director Seth Kearsley before the conclusion of the fourth production season. Despite Sulkin and Wild writing the episode, the idea for \"Petarded\" came from series creator and executive producer Seth MacFarlane. The episode featured an appearance by \"Timer\", a character from 1970s \"Time for Timer\" Saturday morning cartoon public service announcements. Seth MacFarlane attempted to hire Lennie Weinrib, the actor who provided his voice for the character to appear in \"Petarded\" but, as MacFarlane describes in the DVD commentary, \"he was a little old ... and he didn't remember doing it\". Weinrib died one year after the debut of \"Petarded\".\n\nIn the original draft of the episode, Peter being asked easy questions during \"Trivial Pursuit\" was meant to be by chance, but executive producer David A. Goodman proposed the storyline of easy questions being given to Peter by Lois. Prior to the episode broadcast, several sequences were shown after Peter discovers he can get away with anything on the basis that he is mentally challenged including a \"how loud can I yell\" experiment, as well as tackling down an opponent going for a touchdown while attending a New England Patriots game, but they were not deemed funny enough and scrapped.\n\nVarious scenes in the episode were changed or removed because of broadcast censors. Originally, just after Peter hands Brian his test results from the MacArthur Program, Peter was to ask \"Would a retarded person have peed in their pants?\", then urinate in his trousers. However, because broadcasting standards prohibited this, it was changed to \"Well, would a mentally retarded guy have hired a bulldozer with a drunk driver to level half of his house in celebration of his fantastic test results?\". Brian stating to Peter \"In your fucking face, Fuckwad\" after Peter performs poorly on the test was censored from television broadcasting and on the censored track on the DVD, but can be heard uncensored on the uncensored audio track. This marks the first time that the word \"fuck\" has been heard uncensored in a Family Guy episode. The \"Family Guy\" orchestra sung and recorded a song for a sequence which showed several Quahog citizens learning and talking about Peter being declared as retarded. However, this was removed from the episode because broadcasting standards believed it used the word \"retarded\" too many times. After Peter loses custody of the kids, Chris was originally to stay with Mort Goldman, Stewie with Cleveland and Meg with Quagmire. During this original sequence, Mort was to tell Chris that he has two anuses, causing Quagmire to force Meg to lock him in a safe room as he could not trust himself around Meg's friends, but the series was prohibited from broadcasting it by an unknown authority, presumably broadcasting standards.\n\nIn the episode's DVD commentary, MacFarlane addressed what viewers perceived to be a rather abrupt ending to the episode. As Peter has lost all hope in getting custody of his kids back, Lois walks through the front door, returning from the hospital, and has brought the kids home with her. MacFarlane stated, \"Some of the fans actually noticed, commented on the fact that this was a very abrupt resolution, but, to that I would say, you're not watching \"\" ... wouldn't you rather we throw in more jokes and fill up the time, and then hustle to the finish line at the last minute?\".\n\nIn addition to the regular cast, actor LeVar Burton, voice actor Gary Cole, actress Barclay DeVeau, actress Indigo, voice actor Phil LaMarr, actress Cloris Leachman, actor Len Maxwell, actress Natasha Melnick, voice actress Nicole Sullivan, and actress Lisa Wilhoit guest starred in the episode. Recurring guest voice actors Johnny Brennan, Ralph Garman, writer Mike Henry, writer Danny Smith, writer Alec Sulkin, and writer John Viener made minor appearances. Recurring guest cast member Patrick Warburton reprised his role of Joe Swanson in the episode.\n\n\nOn June 19, 2005, the episode was first broadcast on Fox. It gained a Nielsen rating of 4.4, making it the 42nd most-watched show of the week of June 13 to June 19.\n\nIn 2014, to celebrate the show's 15th anniversary, IGN published a list of the 15 best \"Family Guy\" episodes, with \"Petarded\" ranked the best, saying: \"The show is at its comedic best with this episode, with musical numbers and family drama to back up the offensive humor.\" In his review of \"Family Guy\", volume 3, Francis Rizzo III of DVD Talk wrote \"... I will say there are some very good episodes in this set, starting with 'Petarded', which sees Peter declared mentally retarded. The ways he takes advantage of this status is classic \"Family Guy\" material, while the musical montage here, involving phone calls all over town, is actually quite funny. Plus, the appearance of the Naked, Greased-Up Deaf Guy gave hope that the creators still had that sense of the bizarre in them.\"\n\nJohn Nigro of \"The Pitt News\" considered \"Petarded\" one of volume 3's best episodes along with \"Breaking Out Is Hard to Do\" and \"Perfect Castaway\". \"The Sydney Morning Herald\" critic Marc McEvoy commented \"Petarded\" to be \"a real thigh-slapper.\" Kim Voynar of TV Squad gave the episode a mixed review, saying \"... it just seemed to wrap up a little too quickly for me, like they ran out of time and were like, 'Oops, let's wrap this up now'. Other than that quibble, though, it was a fairly funny episode.\" Tom Eames of entertainment website \"Digital Spy\" placed the episode at number five on his listing of the best \"Family Guy\" episodes in order of \"yukyukyuks\" and described the episode as \"one of the best episodes ever\" for fans of offensive humor. He also noted that the episode did not \"go down all that well at the time with censors and charity groups.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2190017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190017", "title": "SAP R/2", "text": "SAP R/2\n\nSAP R/2 is an older version of real-time enterprise resource planning (ERP) software produced by the German company SAP AG, that was replaced by SAP R/3.\n\nSAP R/2 followed the company's first product, a materials management module called RM/1. What was unique about R/2 was that it was a packaged software application that processed real-time on a mainframe computer taking advantage of Time Sharing Option and integrated all of an enterprise's functions, such as accounting, manufacturing processes, supply chain logistics and human resources.\n\nThe modules of R/2 included: RF (Finance) / RK (Controlling) (current day FICO), RM (Materials Management - including Purchasing (RM-PUR), Inventory Management, Production Planning, Quality Management (RM-Qualitäts), Plant Maintenance (RM-INST); RV (including Sales & Distribution and modern-day Logistics Execution); RP (Personnel).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2190044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190044", "title": "Brittany Viola", "text": "Brittany Viola\n\nBrittany Ann Viola (born April 19, 1987 in Minnesota) is an American platform diver formerly for the University of Miami. In 2008 and 2011, she won the NCAA championship in diving's ten-meter platform. She was named to the United States diving team for the 2009 World Aquatics Championships 2011 World Aquatics Championships held in Rome and Shanghai, respectively. Viola was named Captain of the U.S. Diving Team for the 2009 event.\n\nViola's Olympic dreams began when she watched the Magnificent Seven U.S. Gymnastics Team win gold in Atlanta in 1996. She came close to making the 2004 U.S. Olympic Diving Team, finishing second on the 10-meter platform at the U.S. Olympic Team Trials while still in high school. Prior to attending the University of Miami, Viola attended and graduated in 2005 from Lake Highland Preparatory School in Orlando, Florida. While in high school she trained with what is now YCF Diving at the YMCA Aquatic Center in Orlando, FL. In 2008 Viola was named an alternate for the U.S. Olympic Diving Team after finishing fourth in the trials. Among her greatest accomplishments in competitive diving Viola placed second in the U.S. Grand Prix in Fort Lauderdale, FL, in 2009.\n\nIn June 2012, Viola easily took first place in the U.S. Olympic Team Trials and sealed her place on the U.S. Olympic team. She was ahead of the second place member, Katie Bell, by nearly 60 points.\n\nViola was the Student Athlete Advisor Committee (SAAC) President first for the University of Miami from 2008 to 2011, and then the SAAC Chairman for the ACC for the 2008/2009 academic year.\n\nShe is the daughter of former Minnesota Twins pitcher, Frank Viola. Originally trained in gymnastics, she retired at the age of 13 to concentrate on diving because she did not want to move away from home to train.\n\nAt the 2011 US National Championships in August, Viola captured the senior women platform championship at UCLA's Spieker Aquatics Center.\n"}
{"id": "2190048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190048", "title": "James Alexander Barry", "text": "James Alexander Barry\n\nJames Alexander Barry (January 13, 1886 – May 21, 1950) was a politician in Manitoba, Canada. He served in the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba from 1936 to 1941 as a member of the Conservative Party.\n\nBarry was born in Winnipeg, the son of Michael Joseph Barry and Ellen Curless, who had come to Manitoba from New Brunswick in 1879. He was educated at St. Mary's and Immaculate Conception Schools. Barry worked for the Canadian Pacific Railway as head clerk of the superintendent's office in Winnipeg. He served on Winnipeg city council from 1921 to 1925. In 1927, he married Delmar Erickson.\n\nHe first ran for the Manitoba legislature in the 1932 provincial election, in the constituency of Winnipeg. At the time, Winnipeg elected ten members via a single transferable ballot. Barry finished seventeenth on the first count, as was defeated on transfers.\n\nHe fared better in the 1936 election, finishing sixth on the first count and securing election on the sixteenth. The Conservatives lost this election to the Liberal-Progressives, and Barry served on the opposition benches for the next four years.\n\nIn 1940, the Conservatives joined with the Liberal-Progressives and two other parties in a wartime coalition government. Barry supported the coalition, and served as a government backbencher.\n\nRunning for re-election in the 1941 election, Barry finished ninth on the first count but fared poorly on transfers. He was eliminated after the eighteenth tally.\n\nHe died in Vancouver at the age of 64.\n"}
{"id": "2190062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190062", "title": "Ron Jackson", "text": "Ron Jackson\n\nRonnie Damien Jackson (born May 9, 1953 in Birmingham, Alabama) is a coach and a former player in Major League Baseball. He was the hitting coach for the Boston Red Sox in 2004 when they won their first World Series in 86 seasons.\n\nFrom 1975 through 1984, Jackson played first base and third base with the California Angels (1975–78, 1982–84), Minnesota Twins (1979–81), Detroit Tigers (1981) and Baltimore Orioles (1984). He batted and threw right-handed.\n\nJackson was called up to the Angels after hitting .281 in 144 games for the Salt Lake City Gulls of the Pacific Coast League, and made his major league debut on September 12, 1975.\n\nIn a 10-year career, Jackson compiled a .259 batting average with 56 home runs and 342 RBI in 926 games.\n\nJackson played for managers Gene Mauch, Sparky Anderson, Dick Williams and Jim Fregosi. With the Angels, he hit a career-high .297 in 1978, and in 1979 posted personal highs in hits (158), doubles (40), home runs (14), RBI (68), runs (85) and games (153) for Minnesota. In that season, his .9943 fielding percentage at first base broke Rod Carew's Twins' record.\n\nFollowing his retirement as a player, Jackson coached for the Brewers, Dodgers and White Sox systems. The 2006 season marked his 18th year as a major league or minor league hitting coach, and his fourth with the Boston Red Sox. In his first two seasons with Boston, the Red Sox led the majors in runs, batting average, doubles, extra-base hits, total bases, on-base percentage and slugging average. In 2003 the Sox set ML records for extra-base hits, total bases and slugging, finishing one off the major league lead with 238 home runs. The Red Sox tied an ML record with 373 doubles in 2004.\n\nJackson served as the hitting coach for the Round Rock Express, then the top affiliate of the Houston Astros from 2007 to 2009.\n\nHe currently serves as a guest instructor at the New York Baseball Academy and coached Birmingham's Willie Mays Youth Baseball team to the 2014 championship of the Junior RBI Classic in Minneapolis.\n\n, or Retrosheet\n \n"}
{"id": "2190063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190063", "title": "The ABC of Sex Education for Trainables", "text": "The ABC of Sex Education for Trainables\n\nThe ABC of Sex Education for Trainables is a 1975 short educational film hosted by Richard Dix. It was intended to inform people about the need to educate the mentally disabled (\"trainables\" as they are referred to in the film) about sex and sexuality. Reflecting the views held at the time, the film explains that \"trainables\" cannot learn in the same manner as those of normal intelligence, but must instead be trained through repetition.\n\nThe 20 minute video places a high priority on teaching the intellectually disabled about sex so that they will not make inappropriate sexual comments, expose parts of their bodies, masturbate in public, be involved in unplanned pregnancies, or become victims of rape or molestation. It also notes that the goal of teachers should be to explain sexuality in a factual manner, and that views of sexual morality vary between families and should therefore be left for parents to teach.\n\nThe movie is used in \"Timmy and the Sex Lesson\", an episode of The Residents' video series \"Timmy\".\n\nThe onscreen credits acknowledge that narration was provided by Richard Dix and that dramatic sequences were provided by William Block, M.D., Beverly Camp, Rick Fullerton, Peter Green, Michael Kowalski, Ellen Moats, George Murray, Aaron Orenstein, Christopher Reidy, Murray Zeligman, and members and staff of the Ronald Bruce Nippon Assoc., and Planned Parenthood of Southeastern Pennsylvania.\n\n\nIn 2001, \"DVD Talk\" reviewed the Fantoma Films \"Educational Archives\" series, \"Sex & Drugs\", and noted \"The ABCs of Sex Education for Trainables\" as among those included, writing the film had the \"impact of \"Freaks\"\" and that it was intended to \"guide teachers in mental institutions, who must try to train (not teach) those patients considered 'trainable', to know enough about their bodies and sex to neither be anti-social nor victimized in public.\" They commented upon the film addressing the issues directly by its showing \"some very dedicated teachers taking on a really tough job.\" When they reviewed the DVD compilation \"Educational Archives\" \"School Locker\" in 2006, they made note that collections of educational films from Fantoma \"included the best of the best in educational films\", and that it was \"hard to top marvels like \"The ABCs of Sex Education for Trainables\",\" and that while this later compilation was not without merit, \"it pales in comparison with the earlier releases.\"\n\n\"DVD Verdict\" wrote that the film was \"the flip side of all those sex education films directed at children\", in how the \"well-meaning short teaches teachers how to handle sex education for \"retardates,\" or the developmentally disabled.\" They noted that the film tended to be more graphic when compared to the other films included on the \"Educational Archives\" series, \"Sex & Drugs\", and though it tried \"very hard to take its subject seriously. Nevertheless, it comes across as very surreal.\"\n\n\"Digitally Obsessed\" wrote that the \"ABC of Sex Education for Trainables\" was \"produced by Planned Parenthood to train teachers of developmentally-challenged young adults (called \"trainables\" here) about their bodies, reproduction, and the place of sexual relations in society.\" They noted that the film had a few scenes considered (in 2001) as humorous, but that the film \"actually does the best job of dealing with the issues of sex in context with society,\" in how it dealt with such issues as anatomy, aspects of normal development and sexual maturity, the appropriateness of public masturbation, and being aware of exploitation, with the subjects \"handled with tact and matter of factness.\" They concluded that stylistic problems aside, the film was \"quite an interesting piece on what would present a real challenge to those caring for developmentally-challenged individuals, and their responsibilities as sexual beings.\" and that of the films making up the compilation, it was \"the most educational, and least condescending sex education film of the lot.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2190066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190066", "title": "Fishers of men", "text": "Fishers of men\n\n\"\n\n\"Fishers of men\" is a phrase used in the gospels to describe the mandate given by Jesus to his first disciples. Two brother fishermen, Simon called Peter and Andrew, were casting a net into the Sea of Galilee. As he commenced his preaching ministry, Jesus called them to follow him and told them that in doing so they were to become \"fishers of men\". \n\nThis calling of the first Apostles, which eventually become a group of twelve, made the two fishermen early followers of Jesus. There is a parallel account in Mark 1: 16-20 and a similar but different story in Luke 5: 1-11, the Luke story not including the phrase “Fishers of men” (or similar wording). The Cambridge Bible for Schools and Colleges calls a \"condensed parable\", drawn out at slightly greater length later in the same gospel.\n\n\""}
{"id": "2190069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190069", "title": "Plasmodium vivax", "text": "Plasmodium vivax\n\nPlasmodium vivax is a protozoal parasite and a human pathogen. This parasite is the most frequent and widely distributed cause of recurring malaria. Although it is less virulent than \"Plasmodium falciparum\", the deadliest of the five human malaria parasites, \"P. vivax\" malaria infections can lead to severe disease and death, often due to splenomegaly (a pathologically enlarged spleen). \"P. vivax\" is carried by the female \"Anopheles\" mosquito; the males do not bite.\n\n\"Plasmodium vivax\" is found mainly in Asia, Latin America, and in some parts of Africa. \"P. vivax\" is believed to have originated in Asia, but latest studies have shown that wild chimpanzees and gorillas throughout central Africa are endemically infected with parasites that are closely related to human \"P. vivax.\" These findings indicate that human P. vivax is of African origin\". Plasmodium vivax\" accounts for 65% of malaria cases in Asia and South America. Unlike \"Plasmodium falciparum\", \"Plasmodium vivax\" is capable of undergoing sporogonic development in the mosquito at lower temperatures. It has been estimated that 2.5 billion people are at risk of infection with this organism.\n\nAlthough the Americas contribute 22% of the global area at risk, high endemic areas are generally sparsely populated and the region contributes only 6% to the total population at risk. In Africa, the widespread lack of the Duffy antigen in the population has ensured that stable transmission is constrained to Madagascar and parts of the Horn of Africa. It contributes 3.5% of global population at risk. Central Asia is responsible for 82% of global population at risk with high endemic areas coinciding with dense populations particularly in India and Myanmar. South East Asia has areas of high endemicity in Indonesia and Papua New Guinea and overall contributes 9% of global population at risk.\n\nP. vivax is carried by at least 71 mosquito species. Many vivax vectors live happily in temperate climates—as far north as Finland. Some prefer to bite outdoors or during the daytime, hampering the effectiveness of indoor insecticide and bed nets. Several key vector species have yet to be grown in the lab for closer study, and insecticide resistance is unquantified.\n\nPathogenesis results from rupture of infected red blood cells, leading to fever. Infected red blood cells may also stick to each other and to walls of capillaries. Vessels plug up and deprive tissues of oxygen. Infection may also cause the spleen to enlarge.\nUnlike \"P. falciparum\", \"P. vivax\" can populate the bloodstream with sexual-stage parasites—the form picked up by mosquitoes on their way to the next victim—even before a patient shows symptoms. Consequently, prompt treatment of symptomatic patients doesn't necessarily help stop an outbreak, as it does with falciparum malaria, in which fevers occur as sexual stages develop. Even when symptoms appear, because they are usually not immediately fatal, the parasite continues to multiply.\n\n\"Plasmodium vivax\" can cause a more unusual form of malaria with atypical symptoms. It has been known to debut with hiccups, loss of taste, lack of fever, pain while swallowing, cough and urinary discomfort.\n\nThe parasite can go dormant in the liver for days to years, causing no symptoms and remaining undetectable in blood tests. They form what are called hypnozoites, a small stage that nestles inside an individual liver cell. This name derives from “sleeping organisms”. The hypnozoites allow the parasite to survive in more temperate zones, where mosquitoes bite only part of the year.\n\nA single infectious bite can trigger six or more relapses a year, leaving sufferers more vulnerable to other diseases. Other infectious diseases, including falciparum malaria, appear to trigger relapses.\n\nSerious complications for malaria are dormant liver stage parasites, organ failures such as acute kidney failure. More complications of malaria can also be impairment of consciousness, neurological abnormalities, hypoglycemia and low blood pressures caused by cardiovascular collapse, clinical jaundice and or other vital organ dysfunctions and coagulation defects. The most serious complication ultimately being death.\n\nThe main way to prevent malaria is through vector control. There are mostly three main forms that the vector can be controlled: (1) insecticide-treated mosquito nets, (2) indoor residual spraying and (3) antimalarial drugs. Long-lasting insecticidal nets (LLNs) are the preferred method of control because it is the most cost effective. The WHO is currently strategizing how to ensure that the net is properly maintained to protect people at risk. The second option is indoor residual spraying and has been proven effective if at least 80% of the homes are sprayed. However, such method is only effective for 3-6months. A drawback to these two methods, unfortunately, is that mosquito resistance against these insecticides has risen. National malaria control efforts are undergoing rapid changes to ensure the people are given the most effective method of vector control. Lastly, antimalarial drugs can also be used to prevent infection from developing into a clinical disease. However, there has also been an increase resistance to antimalarial medicine.\n\nIn 2015 the World Health Organization (WHO) drew up a plan to address vivax malaria, as part of their Global Technical Strategy for Malaria.\n\n\"P. vivax\" and \"P. ovale\" that has been sitting in EDTA for more than 30 minutes before the blood film is made will look very similar in appearance to \"P. malariae\", which is an important reason to warn the laboratory immediately when the blood sample is drawn so they can process the sample as soon as it arrives. Blood films are preferably made within 30 minutes of the blood draw and must certainly be made within an hour of the blood being drawn. Diagnosis can be done with the strip fast test of antibodies.\n\nChloroquine remains the treatment of choice for \"vivax\" malaria, except in Indonesia's Irian Jaya (Western New Guinea) region and the geographically contiguous Papua New Guinea, where chloroquine resistance is common (up to 20% resistance). Chloroquine resistance is an increasing problem in other parts of the world, such as Korea and India.\n\nWhen chloroquine resistance is common or when chloroquine is contraindicated, then artesunate is the drug of choice, except in the U.S., where it is not approved for use. Where an artemisinin-based combination therapy has been adopted as the first-line treatment for \"P. falciparum\" malaria, it may also be used for P. vivax malaria in combination with primaquine for radical cure. An exception is artesunate plus sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (AS+SP), which is not effective against P. vivax in many places. Mefloquine is a good alternative and in some countries is more readily available. Atovaquone-proguanil is an effective alternative in patients unable to tolerate chloroquine. Quinine may be used to treat \"vivax\" malaria but is associated with inferior outcomes.\n\n32–100% of patients will relapse following successful treatment of \"P. vivax\" infection if a radical cure (eradication of liver stages) is not given.\n\nEradication of the liver stages is achieved by giving primaquine. Patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency risk haemolysis. G6PD is an enzyme important for blood chemistry. No field-ready test is available. Recently, this point has taken particular importance for the increased incidence of vivax malaria among travelers. At least a 14-day course of primaquine is required for the radical treatment of \"P. vivax\".\n\nIn 2013 a Phase IIb trial was completed that studied a single-dose alternative drug named tafenoquine. It is an 8-aminoquinoline, of the same family as primaquine, developed by researchers at the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research in the 1970s and tested in safety trials. It languished, however, until the push for malaria elimination sparked new interest in primaquine alternatives.\n\nAmong patients who received a 600-mg dose, 91% were relapse-free after 6 months. Among patients who received primaquine, 24% relapsed within 6 months. \"The data are absolutely spectacular,\" Wells says. Ideally, he says, researchers will be able to combine the safety data from the Army's earlier trials with the new study in a submission to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for approval. Like primaquine, tafenoquine causes hemolysis in people who are G6PD deficient.\n\nIn 2013 researchers produced cultured human \"microlivers\" that supported liver stages of both \"P. falciparum\" and \"P. vivax\" and may have also created hypnozoites.\n\nMass-treating populations with a primaquine can kill the hypnozoites, exempting those with G6PD deficiency. However, the standard regimen requires a daily pill for 14 days across an asymptomatic population.\n\n\"P. vivax\" is the only indigenous malaria parasite on the Korean peninsula. In the years following the Korean War (1950–53), malaria-eradication campaigns successfully reduced the number of new cases of the disease in North Korea and South Korea. In 1979, World Health Organization declared the Korean peninsula vivax malaria-free, but the disease unexpectedly re-emerged in the late 1990s and still persists today. Several factors contributed to the re-emergence of the disease, including reduced emphasis on malaria control after 1979, floods and famine in North Korea, emergence of drug resistance and possibly global warming. Most cases are identified along the Korean Demilitarized Zone. As such, vivax malaria offers the two Koreas an opportunity to work together on an important health problem that affects both countries.\n\nGiven that drugs that target the various life stages of the parasite can sometimes have undesirable side effects, it is desirable to come up with drug molecules targeting specific proteins/enzymes that are essential for the parasite's survival or that can compromise the fitness of the organism. Enzymes in the Purine salvage pathway had been favorite targets to this end. However, given the high degree of conservation in purine metabolism across the parasite and its host, there could be potential cross-reactivity making it difficult to design selective drugs against the parasite. To overcome this, recent efforts have focused on deducing the function of orphan hypothetical proteins whose functions have been unknown. Though, a lot of the hypothetical proteins have role in secondary metabolism, targeting them will be beneficial from two perspectives, i.e., specificity and reducing the virulence of the pathogen with no or minimal undesirable cross-reactivities.\n\nLike all malaria parasites, \"P. vivax\" has a complex life cycle. It infects a definitive insect host, where sexual reproduction occurs, and an intermediate vertebrate host, where asexual amplification occurs. In \"P. vivax\", the definitive hosts are Anopheles mosquitoes (also known as the vector), while humans are the intermediate asexual hosts. During its life cycle, \"P. vivax\" assumes many different physical forms.\n\nAsexual forms:\n\n\nSexual forms:\n\n\n\"P. vivax\" human infection occurs when an infected mosquito feeds on a human. During feeding, the mosquito injects saliva to prevent blood clotting (along with sporozoites), thousands of sporozoites are inoculated into human blood; within a half-hour the sporozoites reach the liver. There they enter hepatic cells, transform into the trophozoite form and feed on hepatic cells, and reproduce asexually. This process gives rise to thousands of merozoites (plasmodium daughter cells) in the circulatory system and the liver.\n\nThe incubation period of human infection usually ranges from ten to seventeen days and sometimes up to a year. Persistent liver stages allow relapse up to five years after elimination of red blood cell stages and clinical cure.\n\nThe \"P. vivax\" sporozoite enters a hepatocyte and begins its exoerythrocytic schizogony stage. This is characterized by multiple rounds of nuclear division without cellular segmentation. After a certain number of nuclear divisions, the parasite cell will segment and merozoites are formed.\n\nThere are situations where some of the sporozoites do not immediately start to grow and divide after entering the hepatocyte, but remain in a dormant, hypnozoite stage for weeks or months. The duration of latency is thought to be variable from one hypnozoite to another and the factors that will eventually trigger growth are not known; this might explain how a single infection can be responsible for a series of waves of parasitaemia or \"relapses\". It has been assumed that different strains of \"P. vivax\" have their own characteristic relapse pattern and timing. However, such recurrent parasitaemia is probably being over-attributed to hypnozoite activation. One newly recognized, non-hypnozoite, possible contributing source to recurrent peripheral \"P. vivax\" parasitaemia is erythrocytic forms in bone marrow.\n\n\"P. vivax\" preferentially penetrates young red blood cells (reticulocytes), unlike \"Plasmodium falciparum\" which can invade erythrocytes. In order to achieve this, merozoites have two proteins at their apical pole (PvRBP-1 and PvRBP-2). The parasite uses the Duffy blood group antigens (Fy6) to penetrate red blood cells. This antigen does not occur in the majority of humans in West Africa [phenotype Fy (a-b-)]. As a result, \"P. vivax\" occurs less frequently in West Africa.\n\nThe parasitised red blood cell is up to twice as large as a normal red cell and Schüffner's dots (also known as Schüffner's stippling or Schüffner's granules) are seen on the infected cell's surface. Schüffner's dots have a spotted appearance, varying in color from light pink, to red, to red-yellow, as coloured with Romanovsky stains. The parasite within it is often wildly irregular in shape (described as \"amoeboid\"). Schizonts of \"P. vivax\" have up to twenty merozoites within them. It is rare to see cells with more than one parasite within them. Merozoites will only attach to immature blood cell (reticulocytes) and therefore it is unusual to see more than 3% of all circulating erythrocytes parasitised.\n\nParasite life cycle in mosquitoes includes all stages of\nsexual reproduction:\n\n\nWhen a female Anopheles mosquito bites an infected person, gametocytes and other stages of the parasite are transferred to the mosquito stomach.\nGametocytes ultimately develop into gametes, a process known as gametogony.\n\nMicrogametocytes become very active, and their nuclei undergo fission (i.e. amitosis) to each give 6-8 daughter nuclei, which becomes arranged at the periphery. The cytoplasm develops long thin flagella like projections, then a nucleus enter into each one of these extensions. These cytoplasmic extensions later break off as mature male gametes (microgametes). This process of formation of flagella-like microgametes or male gametes is known as exflagellation.\nMacrogametocytes show very little change. They develop a cone of reception at one side and becomes mature as macrogametocytes (female gametes).\n\nMale gametes move actively in the stomach of mosquitoes in search of female gametes. Male gametes then enter into female gametes through the cone of reception. The complete fusion of 2 gametes results in the formation of zygote. Here, fusion of 2 dissimilar gametes occurs, known as anisogamy.\n\nThe zygote remains inactive for sometime but it soon elongates, becomes vermiform (worm-like) and motile. It is now known as ookinete. The pointed ends of ookinete penetrate the stomach wall and come to lie below its outer epithelial layer. Here the zygote becomes spherical and develops a cyst wall around itself. The cyst wall is derived partly from the stomach tissues and partly produced by the zygote itself. At this stage, the zygote is known as an oocyst. The oocyst absorbs nourishment and grows in size. Oocysts protrude from the surface of stomach, giving it a blistered appearance. In a highly infected mosquito, as many as 1000 oocysts may be seen.\n\nThe oocyst nucleus divides repeatedly to form large number of daughter nuclei. At the same time, the cytoplasm develops large vacuoles and forms numerous cytoplasmic masses. These cytoplasmic masses then elongate and a daughter nuclei migrates into each mass. The resulting sickle-shaped bodies are known as sporozoites. This phase of asexual multiplication is known as sporogony and is completed in about 10–21 days. The oocyst then bursts and sporozoites are released into the body cavity of mosquito. Sporozoites eventually reach the salivary glands of mosquito via its hemolymph. The mosquito now becomes infectious. Salivary glands of a single infected mosquito may contain as many as 200,000 sporozoites.\nWhen the mosquito bites a healthy person, thousands of sporozoites are infected into the blood along with the saliva and the cycle starts again.\n\n\"P. vivax\" can be divided into two clades one that appears to have origins in the Old World and a second that originated in the New World. The distinction can be made on the basis of the structure of the A and S forms of the rRNA. A rearrangement of these genes appears to have occurred in the New World strains. It appears that a gene conversion occurred in an Old World strain and this strain gave rise to the New World strains. The timing of this event has yet to be established.\n\nAt present both types of \"P. vivax\" circulate in the Americas. The monkey parasite - \"Plasmodium simium\" - is related to the Old World strains rather than to the New World strains.\n\nA specific name - \"Plasmodium collinsi\" - has been proposed for the New World strains but this suggestion has not been accepted to date.\n\nIt has been suggested that P. vivax has horizontally acquired genetic material from humans.\nPlasmodium vivax is not known to have a particular gram stain (negative vs. positive) and may appear as either.\n\n\"P. vivax\" was used between 1917 and the 1940s for malariotherapy, that is, to create very high fevers to combat certain diseases such as tertiary syphilis. In 1917, the inventor of this technique, Julius Wagner-Jauregg, received the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for his discoveries. However, the technique was dangerous, killing about 15% of patients, so it is no longer in use.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2190074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190074", "title": "Davey Winder", "text": "Davey Winder\n\nDavey Winder, previously known as \"Wavey Davey\" or \"dwindera\" but now settled as \"happygeek\", is a United Kingdom IT pundit who has worked as a consultant, writer and journalist. He is the 'IT Security Journalist of the Year (UK) 2010', an award he has won three times (2006, 2008, 2010).\n\nAfter viral encephalitis left him severely disabled, he first got a computer to use video games to improve the coordination in the remaining arm in which he had the power of movement. He then used a word processor to learn how to read and write again, with the help of his late father and numerous Janet and John kids' books. The disease had also changed his personality, devastating his marriage and social life. After experiments with Prestel, he found an early British online community, CIX, in the late 1980s, before direct connections to the internet were cheaply available outside academia, and this provided him with a new social and business life. Winder was contacted through CIX email over the internet by technological culture writer Howard Rheingold, a habitué of The Well, another early online community-based in the United States, and eventually the two met in person at Winder's home; the meeting is described in Rheingold's book, \"The Virtual Community\". A prolific author himself, Winder has had more than 20 books published. The most recent, Being Virtual, in conjunction with the Science Museum, in London which explores the realm of virtual identity and is part auto-biographical in nature. Winder is now fully recovered and no longer needs a wheelchair.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2190075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190075", "title": "Jónsi", "text": "Jónsi\n\nJón Þór \"Jónsi\" Birgisson (; born 23 April 1975) is an Icelandic musician; he is the vocalist and multi-instrumentalist for the Icelandic post-rock band Sigur Rós. He is known for his use of a cello bow on guitar and his falsetto or countertenor voice. He is blind in his right eye from birth as a result of a broken optic nerve from the brain. He is openly gay. Apart from Sigur Rós, Jónsi also performs together with his partner Alex Somers as an art collaboration called Jónsi & Alex. They released their self-titled first book in November 2006, which was an embossed hardcover limited to 1,000 copies. The two also released the album \"Riceboy Sleeps\", in July 2009. \nOn 1 December 2009, Jónsi's official website, jonsi.com, was launched in anticipation of his debut solo album, \"Go\", which was released on 5 April 2010. After the release of the album, Jónsi promptly started a tour across North America and Europe, featuring songs from the album plus a few other selections, planning to tour from March to September.\n\nIn late January 2010, Jónsi announced that Sigur Rós was on \"an indefinite hiatus\", as the band had scrapped plans for a new album previously announced to be released in 2010, saying that \"they were just rumours\". The band decided to take the year off, as several members of Sigur Rós recently had children, and as Jónsi developed his solo career. In 2012, the band reformed and released the album \"Valtari\" in May 2012 and subsequently \"Kveikur\" in June 2013.\n\nWhen Jónsi was 13 years old, he learned his first song, \"Wrathchild\" by Iron Maiden, on guitar. Iron Maiden remains one of his favorite bands to this day. In 1995, Jónsi fronted a band called Bee Spiders, under the alias 'Jonny B'. He wore sunglasses on stage throughout their concerts. Bee Spiders received the 'most interesting band' award in 1995 in a contest for unknown bands called \"Músíktilraunir\" (\"Music Experimentations\"). The band played long rock songs and was compared to The Smashing Pumpkins. Jónsi also fronted a grunge band called Stoned around 1992–1993. He also uses the alias Frakkur to release his solo material, e.g. the contribution to \"Kitchen Motors Family Album\", which marks the first release under this name.\n\nSince 1994, Jónsi has been the singer and guitarist for Sigur Rós. To date they have released seven studio albums.\n\nAside from his many years with Sigur Rós, Jónsi has collaborated with his partner Alex Somers on their album \"Riceboy Sleeps\" under the moniker Jónsi & Alex, which was released in 2009. In April 2010, Jónsi released his first solo album, \"Go\", and began a multi-nation tour to promote the album from March – September across North America and Europe.\n\nJónsi's song \"Around Us\" was used for the American promotional trailer for Studio Ghibli's film, \"The Secret World of Arriety\" and was also included in \"FIFA 11\", the soundtrack by EA Sports.\n\nHis song \"Tornado\" was featured in Henry Alex Rubin's 2012 film \"Disconnect\"\n\nJónsi also wrote the score for the 2012 Cameron Crowe film \"We Bought a Zoo\".\n\"Boy Lilikoi\", and instrumental versions of \"Tornado\", \"Sinking Friendships\", and \"Around Us\" were all included in the 2012 documentary \"This Is What Love in Action Looks Like\".\n\nJónsi's song \"Grow Till Tall\" was used by the Bluecoats Drum and Bugle Corps in their 2017 competitive program \"Jagged Line.\" It was also featured in the trailer for the third installment of the \"Divergent\" series, \"\".\n\nIn 2018, Jonsi contributed an original song titled \"Who Are You Thinking Of?\" to the soundtrack of the feature film Boy Erased. He also collaborated with Troye Sivan on the song \"Revelation\", also included on the soundtrack.\n\nJónsi recorded \"Sticks and Stones\" for the score to the 2010 film \"How to Train Your Dragon\", for which DreamWorks Animation released a music video on 17 December 2010. His song \"Tornado\" was featured in the arena show adaptation of this film. In 2014, he co-wrote the song \"Where No One Goes\" for the sequel, \"How to Train Your Dragon 2\", with the film's music composer John Powell. He also co-wrote the melody for \"For the Dancing and Dreaming\". Jónsi additionally wrote a rough demo (entitled \"Mama's Boy\") for the film, which was eventually replaced by \"Flying with Mother\". He wrote and performed the song \"Together from Afar\" for the final installment of the \"franchise\", \"\", in which he also provided the vocals for the track \"The Hidden World\".\n\nIn 2019, it was announced that Jónsi and Swedish composer Carl Michael von Hausswolff had formed a new musical collaboration they were calling Dark Morph, and on 10 May 2019, they released their first album, also titled \"Dark Morph\". The project \"promises to explore the ramifications of ongoing environmental collapse to the oceans and its inhabitants.\" The album consists mainly of ambient sounds, often simulating the sounds of animals and nature, and contains very few actual melodies.\n\nJónsi and his partner Alex Somers completed their first album together, entitled \"Riceboy Sleeps\" under the name Jónsi & Alex. The instrumental album was recorded in Iceland, played solely on acoustic instruments, and mixed in Hawaii. The album features appearances by the Icelandic string quartet Amiina and the Kópavogsdætur choir.\n\nThe 68-minute album includes nine tracks and was released on 20 July 2009 on Parlophone Records.\n\nA post that appeared on Jónsi's official site on 26 May 2009 stated that the artist was working on a new solo album that would feature predominantly acoustic music and string arrangements from classical composer Nico Muhly. The album was set to be produced by Peter Katis (Interpol, The National, Tokyo Police Club).\n\nOn 4 December 2009, a free MP3 of the track \"Boy Lilikoi\" was made available to mailing list subscribers through the website. The MP3 announced the title of the album to be \"Go\", and gave a worldwide release date of 'the week of 5 April 2010' through Parlophone and XL Recordings.\n\nOn 5 April 2010, as promised, the album was released in Iceland and the United Kingdom, with a worldwide release date of the following day. The album was sung mainly in English, making a change from the majority of Jónsi's previous work, which was sung mainly in Icelandic and Vonlenska. The album charted at No.20 on the UK album charts on 12 April 2010, and reached No. 23 on the \"Billboard\" 200.\n\nThe \"Go\" limited edition box set also included \"Go Quiet\", a 45-minute film, directed by Dean DeBlois (director of the Sigur Rós concert film \"Heima\"), that features all nine songs from the album performed acoustically at home in Reykjavík, over New Year 2010.\n\nJónsi went on tour with his album \"Go\" on 6 April 2010. The tour did not include any venues within Jónsi's home country of Iceland. The artist's touring band included Alex Somers on guitar, sound effects, and keyboards; Thorvaldur Thór Thorvaldsson on drums; Ólafur Björn Ólafsson on keyboards; and Úlfur Hansson on bass and monome.\n\nJónsi makes a guest appearance under the alias 'Frakkur' on track 13, \"Skyscraper Heart\", on \"Hi-Camp Meets Lo-Fi – Explosion Picture Score\" by Dip (1999)<br>\nJónsi provides vocal material on three collaborations with The Hafler Trio:<br>\n\"Exactly As I Say\" (2004 CD; a separate limited edition of 111 copies also exists containing DVD and 5.1 surround sound)<br>\n\"Exactly As I Am\" (2005 Double CD)<br>\n\"Exactly As I Do\" (2005 Double CD)<br>\nJónsi makes a guest appearance on Tiësto's track \"Kaleidoscope\" on his album of the same name, which was released on 6 October 2009.<br>\nJónsi appears on the album \"In a Safe Place\" by The Album Leaf, on the song \"Over the Pond\".\n\nIn 2018, Jónsi collaborated with Troye Sivan on the song \"Revelation\" from the \"Boy Erased\" soundtrack.\n\nJónsi's first language is Icelandic. He also speaks English, according to the official Sigur Rós web site: \nOn the first three Sigur Rós albums (Von, Von Brigði, Ágætis Byrjun), Jónsi sang most songs in Icelandic but two of them (\"Von\" and \"Olsen Olsen\") were sung in 'Hopelandic'. All of the vocals on ( ) are in Hopelandic. Hopelandic (\"Vonlenska\" in Icelandic) is the 'invented language' in which Jónsi sings before lyrics are written to the vocals. It is not an actual language by definition (no vocabulary, grammar, etc.), but rather a form of gibberish vocals that fit to the music and act as another instrument. Jónsi likens it to what singers sometimes do when they've decided on the melody, but haven't written the lyrics yet. Many languages were considered to be used on ( ), including English, but they decided on Hopelandic. Hopelandic (Vonlenska) got its name (from a journalist, not Jónsi himself) from the first song which Jónsi sang on, \"Hope\" (Von).\n\nLike a few other players of the bowed guitar, Jónsi plays mainly variations of the Les Paul. He also plays Ibanez Les Paul copies, model PF200. The first Ibanez used to be his main instrument during the Bee Spiders era all through \"Ágætis Byrjun\". It was largely refinished and decorated (as can be seen in \"Ágúst Jakobsson's\" documentary \"Popp í Reykjavík\"). That particular instrument got stolen and broken but was on display in the Reykjavík Art Museum in the summer of 2003. During the recordings of \"Takk...\", Jónsi bought another PF200 to replace the Les Paul. Since the summer of 2006, Jónsi has been using a guitar that was made on the road by his then guitar tech Dan Johnson. The guitar is usually referred to as \"The Bird,\" after the band's bird designs seen on previous album artwork that adorn the neck and frets of the guitar. \"The Bird\" is based on the body of the Ibanez PF200. The artists has also been seen playing a variety of other instruments such as the piano, acoustic guitar, electric bass guitar, harmonium, mellotron, baritone ukulele, and the banjo.\n\nIn 2003, he was escorted off the premises while protesting against Kárahnjúkar Hydropower Plant in Iceland.\n\nJónsi is a vegetarian. He states that he \"didn't go vegetarian because of the animals\" but became gradually more concerned for their welfare. Jónsi elaborated that he would find it difficult to date someone who eats meat, saying \"I just love animals and I do not want to kill them, cook them or eat them so it’d be hard for me to watch anyone do that.\" He briefly followed a raw food diet, although he no longer practices this as he felt it hindered his social life and he was \"getting antisocial\" when on tour.\n\nAlongside his visual art collaboration with Alex Somers, he has also exhibited his own work. He had an installation at the Los Angeles branch of Tanya Bonakdar Gallery in late 2019.\n\n"}
{"id": "2190079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190079", "title": "N'djili Airport", "text": "N'djili Airport\n\nN'djili Airport ( ), also known as N'Djili International Airport and Kinshasa International Airport, serves the city of Kinshasa and is the largest of the four international airports in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). It is named after the nearby Ndjili River.\n\nIn 1998, N'Djili airport was the site of one of the decisive battles of the Second Congo War. Rebel forces advancing on Kinshasa infiltrated the airport perimeter but were repelled by Zimbabwean troops and aircraft arriving to support the government of Laurent Kabila.\n\nIn June 2015, a new international terminal was opened which can service one million passengers per year. Some computerized upgrades to the arrivals terminal have been implemented in recent years, although corruption remains a problem.\n\n"}
{"id": "2190087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190087", "title": "Gus Bodnar", "text": "Gus Bodnar\n\nAugust \"Gus\" Bodnar (April 24, 1923 – July 1, 2005) was a Canadian professional ice hockey centre who played 12 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL) for the Toronto Maple Leafs, Chicago Black Hawks and Boston Bruins.\n\nA native of Fort William, Ontario, Bodnar started his career with the local Fort William Rangers of the Thunder Bay Junior A Hockey League. He played for the Rangers for three seasons from 1941–43 and competed for the Memorial Cup twice in 1941–42 and 1942–43.\n\nAfter leading the TBJHL in points in 1942–43, Bodnar joined the Toronto Maple Leafs. On October 30, 1943, Bodnar scored his first ever NHL goal 15 seconds in his first NHL game, setting the record for fastest goal by a player in his first NHL game. Bodnar scored 62 points during the regular season, a career best, and he beat Montreal Canadiens rookie goaltender Bill Durnan in voting for the Calder Memorial Trophy in 1943–44. He spent four more seasons with the Maple Leafs and won two Stanley Cups in 1944–45 and 1946–47. Bodnar had 40 assists in his rookie season in 1943–44, which would set a record for assists by a Maple Leafs rookie until surpassed by Mitch Marner in 2016–17.\n\nIn 1947–48, Bodnar and fellow linemates Gaye Stewart, Ernie Dickens, Bud Poile and Bob Goldham were traded to the Chicago Black Hawks in exchange for Max Bentley and Cy Thomas. Bodnar remained in Chicago for seven seasons from 1947 to 1954. He also played in the NHL All-Star Game in 1950–51. On March 23, 1952, Bodnar set another NHL record by recording three assists in 21 seconds. With that record, he also helped teammate Bill Mosienko set the record for fastest hat-trick in NHL history In 1953–54, Bodnar was traded to the Boston Bruins midway through the season. He would remain with the Bruins for one more season in 1954–55, before retiring.\n\nBodnar retired from playing hockey in 1955, but later came back to coach. Bodnar coached in the Boston farm system with the Lakeshore Bruins in the Metro Jr.B league, they won the League Championship in 57/58 and went to the OHA Jr.B Championship round. He was the coach and manager of the Toronto Marlboros from 1967 to 1968. He coached the Marlboros to a Memorial Cup championship in 1966–67. In 1970, Bodnar was named head coach of the Salt Lake Golden Eagles in the WHL. He remained there for one season before signing on as head coach of the Oshawa Generals in the OHA from 1971 to 1976. He was the recipient of the OHA Coach of the Year Award in 1971–72.\n\nBodnar was elected to the Northwestern Ontario Sports Hall of Fame in 1983, and the Oshawa Sports Hall of Fame in 1995. On July 1, 2005, Bodnar died at the Lakeridge Health Unit in Oshawa, Ontario.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2190091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190091", "title": "ValeParaibano", "text": "ValeParaibano\n\nValeParaibano is a daily newspaper in the Brazilian city of São José dos Campos. It was founded on January 2, 1952. Its editions are focused on news and events in Vale do Paraiba, a region of São Paulo State.\n\nThe name \"ValeParaibano\" denotes the origin of the newspaper, from the Vale do Paraiba. The reported circulation data were around 20,000 readers on weekdays and 30,000 on Sundays in 2002.\n\n"}
{"id": "2190127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190127", "title": "Giuffria", "text": "Giuffria\n\nGiuffria was an American rock band that was formed in 1981 by Gregg Giuffria after his departure from the band Angel, a glam/hard rock band from Washington, D.C..\n\nGiuffria was formed as Gregg Giuffria's side project in 1981 after his departure from Angel. At the onset, Giuffria had intended to forge this project under the 'Angel' moniker, until several members of the now-defunct band took suit. The band's classic line-up consisted of Gregg Giuffria on keyboards, David Glen Eisley (lead vocalist), Craig Goldy (guitar), Chuck Wright (bass), and Alan Krigger (drums). Eisley had recently been vocalist for Los Angeles-based band Sorcery. Goldy had briefly been a member of hard rock/glam metal band Rough Cutt, while Wright had guested on several tracks on Quiet Riot's album, \"Metal Health\", although not an official member at the time. Tom Quinton played drums for several months in 1983-84, but was dumped in favor of long time session drummer Alan Krigger, who was deemed to have a better image than Quinton.\n\nGiuffria were signed to MCA Records in 1984. Their debut album \"Giuffria\", soon followed, peaking at No. 26 on the album charts, while spawning two hit singles, \"Call to the Heart\" (Hot 100 #15) and \"Lonely in Love\" (Hot 100 #57).\n\nThe band was the opening act for Deep Purple on the latter's 1984 reformation US tour. Throughout that tour, despite receiving rave reviews as the opening act, the members of Giuffria were subjected to mistreatment by Deep Purple lead guitarist Ritchie Blackmore, who cut the band's set from 45 minutes to 25. They also were forbidden guitar solos and encores, and also had to play with the arena lights on.\n\nThe band toured as opener on Foreigner's \"Agent Provocateur\" Tour, and enjoyed considerable success. The band played a few shows in Japan in June 1985 and a live video was released as \"Giuffria Japan Tour '85\". Giuffria was also featured on the \"Gotcha!\" soundtrack, with \"Never Too Late\" and \"Say It Ain't True.\" A third track \"What's Your Name?\" featured Gregg Giuffria and David Glen Eisley, but was listed under the name Camelflage. Gregg also produced several of the album's tracks.\n\nGiuffria's next album, \"Silk and Steel\", was released in 1986, following some lineup changes. Goldy had joined Dio and was replaced by guitarist Lanny Cordola, while Wright returned to Quiet Riot (this time joining the band as an official member) and was replaced by Rick Bozzo and later David Sikes. First single \"I Must be Dreaming\" failed to hit the Top 40, peaking at No. 52, with the album peaking at No. 60 on the \"Billboard\" 200. A second single, \"Love You Forever\", was released, but label promotion was poor and aside from an American Bandstand performance of the single it quickly disappeared, failing to make the Hot 100.\n\nGiuffria left MCA in 1987 and disbanded shortly after recording demos for a third album, which included the return of bassist Chuck Wright and the debut of drummer Ken Mary, who had replaced Alan Krigger. Some of these demos would eventually appear on the House of Lords debut album, and nine tracks from the \"Giuffria III\" sessions were included on David Glen Eisley's \"Lost Tapes\" release.\n\nOn an episode of \"That Metal Show\" in 2010, guitarist Craig Goldy claims there is talk of a reunion of the band.\n\nThe media revealed in April 2015 that Giuffria (featuring Eisley, Goldy and Krigger) would be part of the Rockingham lineup at Nottingham's Rock City October 23–25. Giuffria will support headline act Dokken on the Sunday. Other acts appearing on Sunday include Royal Hunt and Stan Bush.\n\n2017 saw Eisley and Goldy teaming up to record an album under the name \"Eisley/Goldy\" titled \"Blood, Guts and Games\", which was released at the end of the year. Original Giuffria bassist Chuck Wright also contributed to the record, while Krigger appears as the drummer in the music video for the album's first single, \"The Heart is a Lonely Hunter.\"\n\nPresent:\nPast:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2190139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190139", "title": "Bearer-Independent Call Control", "text": "Bearer-Independent Call Control\n\nThe Bearer-Independent Call Control (BICC) is a signaling protocol based on N-ISUP that is used for supporting narrowband Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) service over a broadband backbone network. BICC is designed to interwork with existing transport technologies. BICC is specified in ITU-T recommendation Q.1901.\n\nBICC signaling messages are nearly identical to those in ISDN User Part (ISUP); the main difference being that the narrowband circuit identification code (CIC) has been modified. The BICC architecture consists of interconnected serving nodes that provide the call service function and the bearer control function. The call service function uses BICC signaling for call setup and may also interwork with ISUP. The bearer control function receives directives from the call service function via BICC Bearer Control Protocol (ITU-T recommendation Q.1950) and is responsible for setup and teardown of bearer paths on a set of physical transport links. Transport links are most commonly Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM) or Internet Protocol (IP). \n\nAccording to the ITU, the completion of the BICC protocols is a historic step toward broadband multimedia networks because it enables the seamless migration from circuit-switched TDM networks to high-capacity broadband multimedia networks.\n\nThe Third-Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) has included BICC CS 2 in the Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS) release 4.\n\n"}
{"id": "2190143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190143", "title": "1932 Manitoba general election", "text": "1932 Manitoba general election\n\nThe 1932 Manitoba general election was held on June 16, 1932 to elect Members of the Legislative Assembly of the Province of Manitoba, Canada.\n\nThis was the second election in Manitoba where two types of preferential voting was used in all electoral divisions. Winnipeg elected ten members through single transferable ballot, while all other constituencies elected one member by instant runoff voting.\n\nThe election was called soon after the announcement of an alliance between the governing Progressive Party of John Bracken and the Liberal Party led by Murdoch Mackay. These parties were ideologically similar, and had a common interest in preventing the Conservative Party from coming to power. National Liberal leader William Lyon Mackenzie King supported this alliance, out of concern that a Conservative victory would strengthen the hand of Conservative Prime Minister Richard Bennett.\n\nBracken tried to bring the Conservatives into his coalition, but was rebuffed by Conservative leader Fawcett Taylor. Taylor's refusal to consider a consensus government was used against him in the campaign.\n\nThe election was also contested by the social democratic Independent Labour Party, under the leadership of John Queen. Though it was the second-largest party in the legislature after the 1920 election, Labour had slumped to only three seats in 1927 amid a general period of decline in the Canadian left. While the ILP was poised to improve its showing in the 1932 campaign, it was not a serious contender for government. In the event it elected only five MLAs, four in Winnipeg and one in St. Boniface, evidence of the benefits of preferential balloting to a minority party.\n\nSome members of the provincial Liberal Party opposed the Liberal-Progressive alliance, and contested the election as \"continuing Liberals\". Their leader was David Campbell, the mayor of St. Boniface.\n\nLeslie Morris and Jacob Penner of the Communist Party campaigned in the city of Winnipeg, and other Communist candidates ran in the outlying areas. As the Communist Party was under legal restrictions at the time, they ran as \"United Front Workers\" candidates. Former Member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA) George Armstrong ran as a candidate of the Socialist Party, and Jessie MacLennan campaigned as a labour candidate unaffiliated with the ILP.\n\nThe result was a resounding victory for the governing alliance, as Liberals, Progressives and their allies won 38 out of 55 seats. The Conservatives fell from fifteen seats to ten. Having lost his third consecutive election, Fawcett Taylor resigned as Conservative leader in 1933. The Independent Labour Party managed a modest recovery after its poor showing in 1927, increasing its caucus to five members. No other parties' candidates were elected, although two former Progressives were elected as independents. The Continuing Liberals fared especially poorly, and disappeared after the election.\n\nLeslie Morris came 309 votes short of winning the tenth seat in Winnipeg. Had he won, he would have been the first Communist elected to a provincial legislature in Canada.\n\nOf the 17 opposition MLAs, 7 were elected in Winnipeg through STV.\n\n\n(LP/P = Liberal Party/Progressive) L = continuing Liberal group led by Campbell\n\nArthur:\n\nAssiniboia:\n\n\"First Count\"\n\nSmith was eliminated.\n\n\"Second Count\"\n\nBeautiful Plains:\n\nBirtle:\n\nBrandon City:\n\n\"First Count\"\n\nCater was eliminated. Clement was eliminated on the second count with 1555 votes.\n\n\"Third Count\"\n\nCarillon:\n\nCypress:\n\nDauphin:\n\n\"First Count\"\n\nWicks was eliminated.\n\n\"Second Count\"\n\nDeloraine:\n\nDufferin:\n\nEmerson:\n\n\"First Count\"\n\nKolodzinski was eliminated.\n\n\"Second Count\"\n\nEthelbert:\n\nFairford:\n\nFisher:\n\n\"First Count\"\n\nHamilton was eliminated. Note that one source lists Hamilton as a Continuing Liberal.\n\n\"Second Count\"\n\nGilbert Plains:\n\nGimli:\n\n\"First Count\"\n\nEwanchuk was eliminated. Kapusta was eliminated on the second count with 716 votes, and Thorvaldson was eliminated on the third count with 858 votes.\n\n\"Fourth Count\"\n\nGladstone:\n\nGlenwood:\n\nHamiota:\n\nIberville:\n\nKildonan and St. Andrews:\n\n\"First Count\"\n\nCook was eliminated.\n\n\"Second Count\"\n\nKillarney:\n\nLakeside:\n\nLansdowne:\n\nLa Verendrye:\n\n\"First Count\"\n\nRamsay was eliminated.\n\n\"Second Count\"\n\nManitou:\n\nMinnedosa:\n\n\"First Count\"\n\nSt. John was eliminated.\n\n\"Second Count\"\n\nMorris:\n\nMountain:\n\nMorden and Rhineland:\n\nNorfolk:\n\nPortage la Prairie:\n\nRoblin:\n\nRockwood:\n\n\"First Count\"\n\nLewis was eliminated.\n\n\"Second Count\"\n\nRupertsland (16 July):\n\n\"First Count\"\n\nAtkinson was eliminated.\n\n\"Second Count\"\n\nRussell:\n\nSt. Boniface:\nValid votes: 11,359\nmajority required to win on First Count: 5680\n\n\"First Count\"\n\n2nd Count Campbell was eliminated. His 1116 votes were transferred to other candidates according to voters' marked preferences or put aside as \"exhausted.\"\n3rd Count Gagnon was eliminated. His 3560 votes were transferred.\n\n\"After 3rd Count\"\nLawrence with a majority of the remaining votes in the district was declared elected.\nAt the end there were 9424 votes still in play. The others were \"exhausted.\" They had run out of marked preferences so were no longer in use.\n\nSt. Clements:\n\n\"First Count\"\n\nSmith was eliminated. Dunn was eliminated after the second count with 1824 votes.\n\n\"Second Count\"\n\nSt. George:\n\nSte. Rose:\n\nSpringfield:\n\n\"First Count\"\n\nMatheson was eliminated. McRury and Grant were eliminated after the second count with 1113 and 251 votes, respectively.\n\n\"Third Count\"\n\nSwan River:\n\n\"First Count\"\n\nGoodman was eliminated.\n\n\"Second Count\"\n\nTurtle Mountain:\n\nThe Pas (deferred):\n\nVirden:\n\nWinnipeg (ten members):\n\nFirst Count (quota: 7000 votes): Evans and Queen declared elected\nRalph Maybank (LP/L) to take the last empty seats.\n\nThese were elected:\n\nThe first ballot results for Winnipeg and results for all other constituencies are taken from an official Manitoba government publication entitled \"Manitoba elections, 1920-1941\", cross-referenced with an appendix to the government's report of the 2003 provincial election. The Canadian parliamentary guide lists slightly different results from Kildonan & St. Andrews, Lansdowne, La Verendrye, Morris, Springfield and Turtle Mountain; the other two sources are more comprehensive, however, and may be taken as more reliable.\n\nAll ballot results for Winnipeg after the first count are taken from reports in the Winnipeg Free Press newspaper. It is possible that some errors appeared in the original publication.\n\nPortage la Prairie (res. Fawcett Taylor, 1933), November 27, 1933:\n\nArthur (dec. Duncan McLeod, May 10, 1935), June 24, 1935:\n\nRussell (Isaac Griffiths to cabinet, May 28, 1935), July 4, 1935:\n\nCarillon (dec. Albert Prefontaine, 1935), July 4, 1935:\n\nGimli (res. Einar Jonasson, 1935)\n\nWinnipeg (res. Ralph Maybank, October 1, 1935)\n\nWinnipeg (res. John Thomas Haig, 1935)\n"}
{"id": "2190154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190154", "title": "The Joan Baez Lovesong Album", "text": "The Joan Baez Lovesong Album\n\nThe Joan Baez Lovesong Album was a 1976 compilation that Vanguard Records put together in its series of Joan Baez reissues, after Baez left the label in 1972. The album is a collection of love songs that she had recorded during her Vanguard years, including traditional and contemporary work, as well as an arrangement of E. E. Cummings' \"All in Green My Love Went Riding\" by Peter Schickele. The cover painting is by the painter and musician Eric Von Schmidt.\n\n"}
{"id": "2190157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190157", "title": "Arthur Ochs Sulzberger Jr.", "text": "Arthur Ochs Sulzberger Jr.\n\nArthur Ochs Sulzberger Jr. (born September 22, 1951) is an American journalist. Sulzberger became the publisher of \"The New York Times\" in 1992, and chairman of The New York Times Company in 1997, succeeding his father, Arthur Ochs Sulzberger. On December 14, 2017, he announced he would be ceding the post of publisher to his son, A. G. Sulzberger, effective January 1, 2018.\n\nSulzberger was born in Mount Kisco, New York, one of two children of Barbara Winslow (née Grant) and Arthur Ochs \"Punch\" Sulzberger Sr. Through his father, he is a grandson of Arthur Hays Sulzberger and a great-grandson of Adolph Ochs. His sister is Karen Alen Sulzberger, who is married to author Eric Lax.\n\nSulzberger's mother was of mostly English and Scottish origin and his father was of German Jewish origin (both Ashkenazic and Sephardic). His parents divorced when he was five years old. Sulzberger was raised in his mother's Episcopalian faith; however, he no longer observes any religion.\n\nHe graduated from the Browning School. In 1974, Sulzberger received a Bachelor of Arts degree in political science from Tufts University.\n\nSulzberger was a Reporter with the \"Raleigh Times\" in North Carolina from 1974 to 1976, and a London Correspondent for the Associated Press in the United Kingdom from 1976 to 1978.\n\nSulzberger joined \"The New York Times\" in 1978 as a correspondent in the Washington, D.C., bureau. He moved to New York as a metro reporter in 1981, and was appointed assistant metro editor later that year. Sulzberger is a 1985 graduate of the Harvard Business School's program for management development.\n\nFrom 1983 to 1987, Sulzberger worked in a variety of business departments, including production and corporate planning. In January 1987, Sulzberger was named assistant publisher. A year later, Sulzberger was named deputy publisher, overseeing the news and business departments. In these capacities, Sulzberger was involved in planning the \"Times\"'s automated color printing and distribution facilities in Edison, New Jersey, and at College Point, Queens, New York, as well as the creation of the six-section color newspaper.\n\nSulzberger played a central role in the development of the Times Square Business Improvement District, officially launched in January 1992, serving as the first chairman of that civic organization.\n\nSulzberger helped to found and was a two-term chairman of the New York City Outward Bound organization.\n\nSulzberger has been credited with developing the \"Times\"'s internet operations, monetizing digital content, and helping to improve the paper's profits. The domain \"nytimes.com\" attracted at least 146,000,000 visitors annually by 2008, according to a Compete.com study. \"The New York Times\" Web site was ranked 59th with more than 20,000,000 unique visitors in March 2009, making it the most visited newspaper site with more than twice as many unique visitors as the next most popular site. The \"Times\" also had the most entries in the list of the 50 most popular newspaper blogs, with 22 of its blogs listed that year.\n\n\nOn May 24, 1975, Sulzberger married Gail Gregg in a Presbyterian ceremony in Topeka, Kansas. The couple have two children: a son, Arthur Gregg Sulzberger, and a daughter, Annie Sulzberger. In May 2008, they announced plans to end their marriage.\n\nIn May 2014, Sulzberger became engaged to Gabrielle Greene. They married on August 30, 2014, on Martha's Vineyard in Massachusetts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2190173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190173", "title": "William Jefferson Clinton Federal Building", "text": "William Jefferson Clinton Federal Building\n\nThe William Jefferson Clinton Federal Building is a complex of several historic buildings located in the Federal Triangle in Washington, D.C., across 12th Street, NW from the Old Post Office. The complex now houses the headquarters of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).\n\nOne component of the complex was originally called the New Post Office, and housed the headquarters of the Post Office Department until that department was replaced by the United States Postal Service in 1971 and which vacated the building. Subsequently, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (BATFE) occupied this building, which Congress renamed as the Ariel Rios Federal Building in 1985. BATFE vacated the building in the early 1990s, and EPA moved in after a renovation.\n\nTo consolidate its headquarters offices, EPA also took occupancy of two adjacent buildings beginning in the late 1990s: the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC) building and the Department of Labor Building, on Constitution Avenue, NW. In 2013 Congress renamed the Ariel Rios Federal Building in honor of former President Bill Clinton, and the General Services Administration extended the designation to the former ICC and Labor buildings. (The new BATFE headquarters building received the name Ariel Rios Federal Building in 2016.)\n\nIn the early 1930s, the area that was to become the Federal Triangle was one of the city's most blighted neighborhoods, known as Murder Bay and was a center of crime and prostitution. The plan for the area's redevelopment was laid out as part of the 1901 McMillan Plan, the first federally funded urban redevelopment plan, and the redevelopment of Federal Triangle began in earnest in the 1930s under the leadership of Treasury Secretary Andrew W. Mellon.\n\nConstruction of the New Post Office Building was completed in 1934. The Post Office headquarters was a central feature of the redevelopment. The neoclassical building was designed by architects William Adams Delano and Chester Holmes Aldrich, who took as their inspiration the Place Vendôme in Paris. The central section of the tri-unit building consists of two huge, back to back, semicircular units with side wings. The semicircle formed by the building's curve on its eastern façade was to be mirrored by a similarly curved façade built across 12th Street on the site of the Old Post Office Building.\n\nSecretary Mellon's building commission actively sought the demolition of the Old Post Office to fulfill that plan, but preservation efforts—which continued over the course of 50 years—saved the Old Post Office. The second half of the grand plaza was never finished as designed, save for a curve in the northwest corner of the headquarters of the Internal Revenue Service. (The nearby Ronald Reagan Building, completed in 1998, does mirror, to some degree, the semicircle of the west façade of the Clinton Building.)\n\nThe exterior is decorated with bas relief panels, by Adolph Alexander Weinman.\n\nThe original design of the headquarters building included a local branch post office, called Benjamin Franklin Station. This branch, with entrances on Pennsylvania Avenue, is extant as of 2018.\n\nIn the 1990s, the General Services Administration (GSA) refurbished the former Post Office building with the architectural details of the hallways preserved in the style of the 1920s and 1930s. A seven-story marble spiral staircase is a prominent element of the building's interior. A chandelier hangs in the center of the staircase and has exposed bulbs to illuminate each floor. It terminates in a dramatic chrome and brass globe.\n\nArthur Brown, Jr. designed the Labor building between 1928 and 1931, and construction was completed in 1934. The building entrance is at 1301 Constitution Avenue, NW.\n\nThe Department of Labor was the original occupant of the building. It vacated the building in 1979 when its employees moved to the Frances Perkins Building. The Customs Service took occupancy in 1979 and remained until the late 1990s, when it moved to the Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center. In 2002 EPA moved in, and the building was designated as the \"EPA West\" building.\n\nArthur Brown, Jr. designed the ICC Building, completed in 1934, in a style similar to the Labor building. The building entrance is at 1201 Constitution Avenue, NW. The Interstate Commerce Commission occupied the building until 1995, and EPA moved in after a renovation.\n\nThe Post Office Department occupied its headquarters building until the early 1970s. The department was reorganized into the United States Postal Service, an independent agency, in 1971, and it then vacated the building. The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (BATFE) was the next occupant, through the early 1990s. Congress renamed the New Post Office Building as the Ariel Rios Federal Building on February 5, 1985, in honor of Ariel Rios, an undercover BATFE special agent, who was killed in the line of duty on December 2, 1982. BATFE moved out of the building in the early 1990s, and EPA moved in after a renovation.\n\nIn the late 1990s, EPA consolidated its headquarters offices in the Federal Triangle as it moved into two adjacent buildings: the ICC building and the Department of Labor Building, on Constitution Avenue, NW. In December 2012, both houses of Congress unanimously voted to rename the Ariel Rios Building as the William Jefferson Clinton Federal Building, after Bill Clinton, the 42nd President. GSA administratively renamed the building for Clinton on May 13, 2013. The structure was formally dedicated at a ceremony on July 17, 2013, at which Clinton spoke and former EPA Administratrator Carol Browner attended. The Rios family approved of renaming a building. A reflecting pool at the new ATF headquarters on New York Avenue NW was named for Rios. GSA extended the Clinton building designation to include the former ICC and Labor buildings.\nThe Clinton Federal Building was one of the initial locations that integrated various Works Progress Administration (WPA) murals that were originally commissioned and displayed in federally constructed buildings during the 1930s and 1940s. 25 murals were chosen and six have been criticized by visitors and employees as to stereotyping American Indians and integrating inappropriate images.\n\nGSA addressed the controversy:\nThe U.S. Post Office headquarters murals embody many admirable qualities of American art and culture in the 1930s: a range of visual styles, inventive approaches to subject matter, commitment to bringing creativity and artistic beauty to public spaces, and devotion to the development of American art as a part of national identity. At the same time, engrained cultural attitudes of the 1930s are inevitably present, including stereotypes about women, Native Americans, African Americans, and rural Americans. From Ward Lockwood and Karl Free's depictions of Native Americans and African Americans as subservient to white colonists, to William Palmer and Frank Mechau's emphasis on the aggression of Native Americans and the passive victimhood of women, to Doris Lee's romanticized views of farm life during the Depression, the murals perpetuate outmoded views of their era. Today, the presence of the murals in this building offers a rare opportunity to experience a full cycle of New Deal artwork in its original context, and serves as a valuable reminder of how American society has changed over time\".\n\nControversy over WPA murals was prevalent during their installation and afterward. Nudity and revolutionary sentiments implicit in some murals led to an extended public debate.\n\nIn 1993, the building was renovated. In 1998, the limestone facade was renovated. In 2007, the south courtyard was renovated.\n\n"}
{"id": "2190175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190175", "title": "Eternal security", "text": "Eternal security\n\nEternal security, also known as \"once saved, always saved\", is the belief that from the moment anyone becomes a Christian, they will be saved from hell, and will not lose salvation. \n\nThis belief is held by proponents of free grace theology who believe that an individual will inherit the kingdom of heaven if they have been regenerated; while Reformed theology also teaches this doctrine of the perseverance of the saints, it holds that one's continued belief in Christ and good works are evidence of one's saving faith and that if one does not bear this fruit, he/she was never truly regenerated to begin with. \n\nCatholic, Methodist, and Eastern Orthodox theology hold to synergism with respect to salvation and view the doctrine of eternal security as heretical, instead teaching that one's one's salvation is conditional on one's continued faith, good works, sanctification, and avoidance of sin.\n\nIn Calvinism, eternal security is a logical consequence of the doctrine of perseverance of the saints, according to which true Christians will persevere in good works and faith. Because faith is God's perfect gift it will inevitably produce perseverance in faith and good works. Thus condemnation to hell because of sin, unbelief, or apostasy is not possible for true Christians.\n\nFree grace theology says that anyone who believes in Jesus Christ will go to heaven regardless of any future actions—including future sin, unbelief, or apostasy—though Christians who sin or abandon the faith will face God's discipline.\n\nIn Catholicism, Christians do not have eternal security because they can commit a mortal sin. The Church teach that Christians are subject to the cleansing torment of purgatory before entrance into heaven.\n\nThe Arminian view, inclusive of the Classical Arminian position and Wesleyan-Arminian (Methodist) position, opposes any concept of eternal security, holding that a true Christian can fall from grace and be condemned to hell.\n\n"}
{"id": "2190182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190182", "title": "Joe Franklin", "text": "Joe Franklin\n\nJoe Franklin (March 9, 1926 – January 24, 2015), born Joseph Fortgang, was an American radio and television host personality, author and actor from New York City. His television series debuted in January 1951 on WJZ-TV (later WABC-TV), moving to WOR-TV (later WWOR-TV) in 1962, remaining there until 1993, one of the longest running uninterrupted careers in broadcasting history.\n\nFranklin was born Joseph Fortgang on March 9, 1926, in The Bronx, New York, the elder of two children, to Austrian Jewish parents, Anna (Heller) and Martin Fortgang. He acknowledged in his memoirs, \"Up Late With Joe Franklin,\" (which was written with R. J. Marx), that his press materials had long said, purposely, that he had been born in 1928, but he planned to come clean about his real birth date. As a teenager, Franklin \"followed around\" Al Jolson and Eddie Cantor, the latter of whom eventually began buying jokes from the young Franklin and whose Carnegie Hall show he later produced.\n\nAt 14, Franklin began writing skits for \"The Kate Smith Hour\"; and at 16, Franklin officially began his entertainment career as a record picker on radio sensation Martin Block's \"Make Believe Ballroom\" where he became known as \"The Young Wreck with the Old Records\". By the time he was 21, he embarked on a radio career. He was also considered to be an authority on popular culture of the first half of the 20th century, including silent films. He was called \"The King of Nostalgia\" and \"The Wizard of Was\" for focusing on old-time show-business personalities. Franklin was also a pioneer in promoting products such as Hoffman Beverages and Canada Dry ginger ale on the air. A&E's documentary \"It's Only Talk, The Real Story Of America's Talk Shows\" credits Franklin as the creator of the television talk show. Franklin was listed in the \"Guinness World Records\" as the longest running continuous on-air TV talk show host, more than a decade longer than Johnny Carson's run.\n\nIn 1999, Franklin partnered with Producer Steve Garrin and Restaurant Mogul Dennis Riese to open Joe Franklin's Memory Lane Restaurant at 45th Street and Eighth Avenue in New York City. The restaurant converted to become Joe Franklin's Comedy Club. The club ceased operations after losing its lease in 2003.\n\nAfter retiring from his television show, Franklin concentrated on his overnight radio show, playing old records on WOR-AM on Saturday evenings and mentoring thousands of aspiring entertainers who for decades sought an audience with him at his notoriously cluttered Times Square office. Franklin's celebrity interviews, known as \"Nostalgia Moments\", appeared daily on the Bloomberg Radio Network until mid-January 2015, shortly before his death.\n\nFranklin's guests included an odd mix of actual celebrities and low level performers, sometimes on the same panel. He claimed to have had Charlie Chaplin on his program, a dubious statement since Chaplin left the United States in 1952, shortly after Franklin's TV debut. Other guest claims include John Wayne, Judy Garland, Marilyn Monroe (with whom Franklin co-authored \"The Marilyn Monroe Story\" in 1953), Jayne Mansfield, The Beastie Boys, Cary Grant, Sam Levene, Andy Warhol, Lena Horne, Tony Bennett, Salvador Dali, Rudy Vallee, Jimmy Durante, Madonna, John Lennon and Yoko Ono, Bing Crosby, Jerry Lewis, Roger Williams, The Belmonts, Elvis Presley, The Ramones, Lou Albano and five US presidents (including John F. Kennedy and Richard Nixon). As with the Chaplin claim, some of these appearances were unable to be independently confirmed based on a lack of evidence, since still pictures taken on the set do not exist for several of the people listed, and little video from before the 1970s survives. Bette Midler was the show's in-house singer for a time, and Elizabeth Joyce was his in-house psychic/astrologer. Franklin never employed a co-host, but his producer, Richie Ornstein, was a standard feature on the \"Joe Franklin Show\" who interacted with guests and discussed trivia.\n\nWoody Allen, Andy Kaufman, Liza Minnelli, Barbra Streisand, Julia Roberts, Bruce Springsteen, Robin Williams, John Belushi and Richard Pryor got their first television exposure on \"The Joe Franklin Show\". Frank Sinatra reportedly appeared four times. In December 2000, Franklin partnered with producer Steve Garrin and restaurant mogul Dennis Riese to open \"\"Joe Franklin's Memory Lane Restaurant\"\" on West 45th Street in Broadway's theater district, where Franklin appeared frequently and conducted live, in-person interviews with entertainers such as Carol Channing, Anita O'Day and Billy Crystal, who impersonated Franklin on \"Saturday Night Live\". After the restaurant closed in 2004 it reopened the following year as \"\"Joe Franklin's Comedy Club\"\" on West 50th Street. Many name comedians came to the club and performed on stage to break in their new material, and many aspiring comics got their first stage time there. That venue closed in 2005.\n\nFranklin appeared as himself in such New York-based films as \"Ghostbusters\", \"Broadway Danny Rose\", and \"29th Street\". Franklin appeared on the first episode of \"This American Life\" giving host Ira Glass advice on how to have a successful show. He was also a guest on an early episode of \"Space Ghost Coast to Coast\". He also made appearances in various works by New York low-budget film company Troma Entertainment, making a cameo as himself in their 1999 meta-fictional slasher film \"Terror Firmer\", as well as the 1993 infomercial \"The Troma System\" as the result of the commercial's host transforming into \"the ultimate talk show host\". Franklin appeared as himself in comedian Tracey Ullman’s 1993 HBO comedy special \"Tracey Ullman Takes on New York\", interviewing character Linda Granger on his talk show. \n\nFranklin's show was first parodied by Billy Crystal during the 1984–1985 season of \"Saturday Night Live\".\n\nOn the locally produced program \"The Uncle Floyd Show\", host Floyd Vivino parodied Franklin as \"Joe Frankfurter\".\n\nIn 1997, Franklin was profiled in the documentary film \"50,000,000 Joe Franklin Fans Can't Be Wrong\" (1997), directed by Joshua Brown.\n\nAlso in 1997, Franklin was satirized by Drew Friedman in * \"Any Similarity to Persons Living or Dead is Purely Coincidental\" (with Josh Alan Friedman) (Fantagraphics Books, 1997)\n\nIn the 2005 film \"The Aristocrats\", comedian Sarah Silverman tells a facetious story about Franklin raping her as a child. Franklin, who also appears in the film, considered filing a defamation lawsuit against Silverman.\n\nIn 2014, Franklin starred in Owen Kline and Andrew Lampert's short film \"Jazzy for Joe\", which featured Franklin raising an abandoned baby discovered on his doorstep.\n\nFranklin died of prostate cancer at a Manhattan hospice on January 24, 2015, aged 88.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2190183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190183", "title": "Sprain Brook Parkway", "text": "Sprain Brook Parkway\n\nThe Sprain Brook Parkway (also known as The Sprain) is a long north–south parkway in Westchester County, New York, United States. It begins at an interchange with the Bronx River Parkway in the city of Yonkers, and ends at the former site of the Hawthorne Circle, where it merges into the Taconic State Parkway. The parkway serves an alternate to the Bronx River Parkway, boasting an interchange connection through western Westchester with Interstate 287. New York's Department of Transportation (NYSDOT) refers to it internally as New York State Route 987F (NY 987F), an unsigned reference route.\n\nThe Sprain Brook was first proposed in the early 1920s as a parkway between the Bronx River Parkway and the Hawthorne Circle. The parkway sold a majority of its right-of-way in the 1920s, but the proposed parkway met strong opposition from the village of Bronxville and Yonkers. The Sprain Brook proposal sat on the table until 1949, when the State Council of Parks, run by Robert Moses, sought to ease congestion on the Bronx River Parkway. Moses proposed that a new state park would be constructed in Westchester, with the Sprain Brook Parkway serving as a traffic alternative to the Bronx River, and nearly a decade and a half after the parkway was deeded land. This time, Bronxville opposed the project rather than Yonkers, but an agreement was worked out in 1951. This new alignment would bypass the parts of Bronxville and Yonkers to construct the freeway.\n\nConstruction of the alternative highway began in 1958, with the stretch from the Bronx River Parkway to Tuckahoe Road. This section was completed in 1961. The next piece, from Tuckahoe Road to Jackson Avenue, was constructed during 1962 and 1963, with it opening in the latter. Construction continued to the Cross Westchester Expressway (I-287) and was completed in 1969. At this point, the last missing piece was between the Cross Westchester and the Hawthorne Circle. This piece was delayed until 1976, when construction began on the last of parkway. The last piece of the parkway was opened on October 28, 1980 at the cost of $25 million (1980 USD).\n\nFrom its opening in 1961 until 1979, the parkway was maintained by the East Hudson Parkway Authority, a commission created to maintain tolls on the Saw Mill River Parkway, the Bronx River Parkway and to provide general maintenance for the Taconic State Parkway. The authority was abolished in 1979, at which time, all maintenance of the Sprain Brook Parkway was turned over to NYSDOT.\n\nThe Sprain Brook Parkway, designated by the New York State Department of Transportation as NY 987F, a state reference route, begins at a fork from the Bronx River Parkway along the latter's right-of-way along the Bronx River in the city of Yonkers. Crossing through the Northeast Yonkers neighborhood as a six-lane freeway design, the Sprain Brook crosses an interchange with NY 100 (Central Park Avenue) south of Andrus Park. Bending to the north through Yonkers, the Sprain Brook reaches an interchange with Tuckahoe Road, with the northbound and southbound lanes splitting around the Grassy Sprain Reservoir. The two directions bend northeast along the reservoir. The southbound lanes cross Sprain Ridge Park, while the northbound lanes cross through a golf course. Leaving Yonkers for the town of Greenburgh, the lanes of the Sprain Brook come back together, reaching an interchange with Jackson Avenue. The six lane parkway continues northward and to the northeast through Greenburgh, crossing under Ardsley Road. After turning northward once again, the Sprain Brook crosses under a former alignment of NY 131 (Underhill Road) and passes by the Sunningdale Country Club.\n\nContinuing its north/northeast winding, the Sprain Brook enters an interchange with NY 100B (Dobbs Ferry Road), passing by East Rumbrook Park. Crossing over NY 119 in Elmsford, the parkway enters an interchange with Interstate 287 (the Cross Westchester Expressway). After crossing through the interchange, the Spain continues northward as a six-lane parkway back through the town of Greenburgh, entering an interchange with NY 100C (Grasslands Road). Paralleling NY 100 to the west, the parkway, bending northward into Mount Pleasant and an interchange with County Route 301 (Bradhurst Entrance North Road), which connects to NY 100 (Bradhurst Avenue). North of that junction, the southbound lanes of the Sprain Brook interchange with a crossing NY 100. After several bends to the north, the Sprain Brook enters the merging Taconic State Parkway and terminates as the right-of-way continues as the Taconic.\n\nThe Sprain Brook Parkway sees an average of 95,442 vehicles per day throughout its entire length. The stretch between I-287 and NY 100C sees the highest amount, with 101,460 cars in a 2011 report. The stretch between NY 100 in Yonkers and Jackson Avenue in Greenburgh sees the second-highest, at 100,900, which is an upgrade of over 19,000 vehicles since the same report in 1997.\n\nWhat ultimately became the Sprain Brook Parkway began taking form in the 1920s, when the Westchester County Road Commission acquired the right-of-way for a planned extension of the Taconic State Parkway. The land, bought from 1925 to 1927 for $1.5 million ($ in modern dollars), was, however, not used as a parkway, and in 1938, was proposed to be used instead as an arterial state highway, rather than a parkway. The commission sent a request in April 1938 to the State Council of Parks to have the state take over the right-of-way after the state withdrew its support for the parkway extension. In April 1938, the county was approached by the Westchester County Park Commission to transfer the new project to the state for construction by the State Council of Parks. The project, which at the time would have cost $7 million ($ in modern dollars), was to connect to the Robert Moses-proposed highway between New York City and Albany.\n\nOpposition to this plan was immediate. Yonkers officials publicly disapproved, saying that the county would lose any hope for state aid. In January 1939, the village of Bronxville joined the opposition, deeming the new parkway as a \"needless expenditure of public money\" that would adversely affect local property values and cause flooding. At the same time, proposals in the state legislature provided a sum of $25,000 for the project. County executive William Bleakley said that a new parkway should be built, but not so close to the Saw Mill River and Bronx River parkways. He argued instead for the use of New York Central Railroad's right-of-way, or a parkway on the Hudson River. There were also fears a new parkway would siphon off toll-paying drivers who previously used the Cross County Parkway and its new Fleetwood Viaduct. Nor would it help the county's largest bottleneck, the Hawthorne Circle. The county's Board of Supervisors, however, disagreed with the executive.\n\nIn April 1941, county officials admitted that it was likely that the $7 million appropriated would not be enough, and instead it would be better spent on improving other nearby parkways. The proposed parkway would have needed $400,000 more for additional right-of-way, and the construction costs would leave no money to repave the Bronx River Parkway, the link to the Cross County Parkway, and to extend the Saw Mill River Parkway. The county would have had to spend $8 million of its own money as well. The parkway was instead shortened from Bronxville to Elmsford.\n\nIn March 1949, the State Council of Parks, led by Robert Moses, recommended the development of a new state park in the Sprain Valley. This new state park, which would also have a parkway built through it, would intend to take traffic off the congested Bronx River Parkway. This new parkway would be one of the construction projects involved, which included rebuilding the Bronx River and the development of Ridge Road Park. The Moses-led committee also suggested that $25,000 be appropriated for a study, survey and report on the new parkway and possible expansion of the Ridge Road Park. The city of Yonkers also became involved in the proposal because a section of land needed between NY 100 (Central Park Avenue) and Palmer Road was deeded over to the state by Westchester County for the new $13 million (1949 USD) parkway. Residents in Yonkers protested that this December 1949 transfer would require the demolition or defacing of $1 million worth of homes in the city.\n\nIn April 1950, the State Council of Parks met in Ardsley. Bronxville opposed the construction, claiming that there would be property value depreciation. However, there was no cited opposition for the parkway from any communities further north of Bronxville, and that officials from Westchester County were looking into ideas for an alternate route around Bronxville. At the time, the county had most of the right-of-way in Bronxville claimed, short of one piece. The need for the parkway was helped by the fact that widening of the Bronx River Parkway was not applicable due to land limitations and the prohibitory cost of acquiring land for a widening. The parkway, while creating a needed connection between the Saw Mill River Parkway and the Bronx River Parkway, would not answer the need for diverting traffic off the Hawthorne Circle and the issue of what to do with truck traffic. The parkway, if started, would take about three years to complete and would be constructed by the Taconic State Park Commission.\n\nIn February 1951, Westchester County started getting ready to approve the new parkway plans from the State of New York. The new $16–18 million (1950 USD) parkway still had a short section still in question, with various groups preferring two different alignments. The State Council of Parks wanted to use the alignment used by the Odell Parkway, which still would require demolition of thirty homes in the Cedar Knolls section of Yonkers, while other groups wanted the parkway to be aligned through Crestwood, which would cost 100 homes. Five different sites were proposed at the meeting with the Westchester County Board of Supervisors on February 15. However, an agreement could not be reached by the committee and it was delayed to the next week. On February 19, the county board gave approval to the state plans, at a vote of 32 to 9. The letters of discontent amounted to fifty-nine letters or telegrams. Chairman Jefferson Armstrong spoke that the new parkway would lead to the \"planning for the destruction of Westchester.\" He stated that the county was giving away $8 million in taxpayer funds to the state with a debt of $2.3 million after collecting tolls on the Saw Mill River and Hutchinson River parkways. Residents of the town of Greenburgh protested the county's decision to give the undeveloped Rochambeau Park for development into a state park.\n\nIn July 1951, the county of Westchester approved \"Route A\", one of the proposed alignments for the Sprain Brook through the city of Yonkers. Costing $10.512 million (1951 USD), the route was approved by the state and the fact that the county still owned the right-of-way would determine whether the county would give it to the state. This section of parkway as part of Route A began at the Bronx River Parkway, extending to a point just north of Jackson Avenue. A hearing was held on June 18 that mentioned that only \"Route F-1\", which would cost $14.579 million, and was longer would be the only other acceptable proposal. People living along the \"Route A\" track preferred \"Route F-1\", which would take fifty-four homes, over the thirty from the accepted proposal.\n\nDuring the meeting of the Westchester County Board of Supervisors on August 6, two officials from Yonkers attempted to filibuster the meeting to avoid the transfer of the Sprain Brook right-of-way, along with the \"Route A\" proposal, to the state. This filibuster failed, as the board voted 39 to 2 to transfer the right-of-way. The Taconic State Parkway Commission, Westchester County Park Commission, and the Westchester County Planning Commission all endorsed \"Route A\" over \"Route F-1\". However, the Ridge Road picnic area in Greenburgh was not given to the state. Remaining opposition stated that the route would cut $517,000 from tax revenue, and damage now $3 million worth of homes in the \"Route A\" section, which included the house of Jefferson Armstrong.\n\nIn December 1953, the county executive for Westchester County, Herbert Gerlach, proposed that the now $22 million (1953 USD) parkway should be constructed with tolls to help pay for the new roadway. At this time, the southern of the Bronx River Parkway was being reconstructed for use in the new Sprain Brook Parkway, with funds received before the Korean War. Jefferson Armstrong declared the new plan as a scheme by Robert Moses to \"spend beyond his pocketbook\" and that Gerlach was \"intolerant\" for proposing this just before the start of the holiday season. At the same time, the proposal was made that the county could gain funds by re-appropriating usage of Westchester County Airport, which would cost the county $11 million a year, but would only gain the county $26,000 in revenue. \n\nOn September 30, 1958, the State Department of Public Works notified Westchester County that it would begin construction of the Sprain Brook Parkway. Bids on the new parkway through Yonkers, with of six-lane divided parkway plus of access roads to the new roadway, would be opened on October 30, estimating the cost at $11.116 million. Slated to open in August 1961, this first leg of the Sprain Brook Parkway would connect from the Bronx River Parkway near Bronxville to north of Tuckahoe Road in North Yonkers. At that point in North Yonkers, it would meet with a connector to the New York State Thruway, which could open doors to getting tolls on the new roadway. Overpasses would be constructed at Midland Avenue, DeWitt Avenue, Central Avenue, Tuckahoe Road, Palmer Road, Kimball Avenue and the Bronx River Parkway, with an exit at Central Avenue, along with overpasses over the Sprain Brook, Sunny Brook and Grassy Sprain Brook.\n\nThe section of the Sprain Brook Parkway between Tuckahoe Road and Jackson Avenue in the town of Greenburgh was slated to cost $4.103 million (1961 USD), a stretch of with of access roads. This new portion would have six lanes, with three on each side of the Grassy Sprain Reservoir, which would split the parkway in each direction. Bids were expected to be opened on November 16, 1961 for the extension of the new parkway, maintained by the East Hudson Parkway Authority. The new stretch of parkway was constructed throughout 1962 and 1963, with the East Hudson Parkway Authority announcing the opening of the extension on December 23, 1963 at a cost of $3.6 million (1963 USD). The new interchange with Jackson Avenue would also serve Sprain Ridge Park, which was also being opened at the same time as the new parkway. \n\nThe long section of the Sprain Brook Parkway was opened on November 27, 1969 from Jackson Avenue in Greenburgh to the Cross Westchester Expressway in Elmsford. This new section of Sprain Brook Parkway cost $15.4 million, extending the parkway to a length of from the Bronx to Elmsford. This also included an interchange with NY-100B in Greenburgh. An additional exit was planned at Ardsley Road to provide access to Scarsdale, Ardsley, and Dobbs Ferry, but was never built. Then-Governor of New York Nelson Rockefeller also noted that the extension of the parkway north from the Cross Westchester to the Hawthorne Traffic Circle was still in final design and would begin construction in 1971 with completion of a new interchange in Hawthorne.\n\nThe delay of the final long portion of the Sprain Brook from the Cross Westchester Expressway and the Taconic State Parkway near Hawthorne Circle spent multiple years without progress until demands were placed upon Governor Hugh Carey to get state funds attached to the project. The project had been delayed multiple times and local lobbying interests including Union Carbide threatened to back out of opening corporate locations in the area of the new extension, which in 1976 was slated to cost $20 million (1976 USD). The East Hudson Parkway Authority (EHPA) originally proposed raising the tolls on the Saw Mill River and Hutchinson River parkways and building new tolls on the Hutchinson, along with the Bronx River and Taconic parkways. However, NYSDOT reported during a meeting in Albany that contracts on the new extension would be given in 1978. However, the EHPA also wanted more monetary funds for the maintenance of the parkway system in Westchester and wanted to raise the tolls to help pay for that cost.\n\nAlong the state funding from Albany, the rest of the money for the Sprain Brook extension was to be paid for through federal funds. The new parkway extension, which had a slated completion in December 1980, was bid on in 1978 and won by Yonkers Contracting Company for a total of $22.8 million (1978 USD). Various materials in the extension included of gravel, of concrete, of asphalt and of steel. While the project started under the eyes of NYSDOT and EPHA, when the new parkway was complete, the East Hudson Parkway Authority had been disestablished in 1979 and control of the Sprain Brook had been turned back to NYSDOT.\n\nThe new parkway would lower traffic on NY 9A through Elmsford while also connecting to the Westchester County Medical Center, a local jail, and Westchester Community College. Economic improvements of the parkway extension would include nearly 6,000 new jobs and over $2 million (1978 USD) in tax rebates. The fourth and final section of the Sprain Brook Parkway was opened on October 28, 1980 at the cost of $25 million (1980 USD). The last section, deemed a long missing link, finished the parkway to its full length between the Bronx River Parkway and the traffic circle in Hawthorne. This new piece of the parkway was built with 70% of the required funds provided by the federal government, and was designed to redistribute traffic along different parkways, with NYSDOT estimating about 44,000 cars daily using the completed roadway.\n\nThe effects of the completion of the parkway were nearly immediate. Traffic on the Saw Mill River Parkway lessened with the new parkway, along with a 20% reduction on the Taconic State Parkway. However, while the route south of the Sprain Brook was seeing less traffic, the portion north of Hawthorne to Campfire Road, a section, was seeing much more traffic with the new parkway. Proposals for solving this problem included a $50 million (1982 USD) proposal to widen the Taconic State Parkway to six lanes. NY 9A south of Hawthorne also saw a considerable reduction in traffic and an improvement in the corridor north of NY 100C, becoming more of a commercial center. New industrial parks and office parks were being constructed within a couple years of completion of the new parkway along NY 9A.\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2190184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190184", "title": "Rough prominent", "text": "Rough prominent\n\nThe rough prominent (\"Nadata gibbosa\") is a moth of the family Notodontidae, subfamily Phalerinae. It is also known as the white-dotted prominent and the tawny prominent. The species was first described by James Edward Smith in 1797. This common moth is found across North America from the northern boreal forests to as far south as Florida. It is most common in deciduous forests at some elevation. It is nocturnal but attracted to lights. The moths start to fly soon after dusk and return to resting places some time before dawn breaks (Fullard & Napoleone 2001). The adults live through late spring and early summer, and larvae are active until fall. They then pupate until the following spring.\n\nThe moth is tan or dull orange, with two small silver spots on each forewing. The wingspan is approximately 2 inches (5 cm). It sports a pointed thoracic tuft between its wings.\n\nThe larva is blue green, turning bright green as it approaches pupation age. It has a large head capsule, yellow mandibles, and yellow longitudinal stripes down its body. It feeds on the leaves of oaks and other deciduous trees (see list below). The larva is sometimes called the green oak caterpillar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2190185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190185", "title": "Melanie Lynskey", "text": "Melanie Lynskey\n\nMelanie Jayne Lynskey (born 16 May 1977) is a New Zealand actress and voice actress. She is the recipient of several accolades, including a New Zealand Film Award, a Hollywood Film Award, and a Sundance Special Jury Award, as well as Critics' Choice Award, Gotham Award and Golden Nymph Award nominations.\n\nLynskey made her film debut at age 17, starring as a teenage murderer in \"Heavenly Creatures\" (1994). After moving to the United States, she built a career playing supporting parts in films such as \"Ever After\" (1998), \"Detroit Rock City\", \"But I'm a Cheerleader\" (both 1999), \"Coyote Ugly\" (2000), \"Abandon\", \"Sweet Home Alabama\" (both 2002), \"Shattered Glass\" (2003), \"Flags of Our Fathers\" (2006), \"Away We Go\", \"Up in the Air\", \"The Informant!\", \"Leaves of Grass\" (all 2009), \"Win Win\" (2011), \"Seeking a Friend for the End of the World\" and \"The Perks of Being a Wallflower\" (both 2012).\n\nLynskey received critical praise for her performance in \"Hello I Must Be Going\" (2012), which proved to be a turning point in her career. Subsequent lead roles in \"Happy Christmas\", \"We'll Never Have Paris\", \"Goodbye to All That\" (all 2014), \"The Intervention\", \"Rainbow Time\", \"Little Boxes\" (all 2016), \"I Don't Feel at Home in This World Anymore\", \"And Then I Go\" (both 2017) and \"Sadie\" (2018) have established her as a prominent figure in the American independent film community.\n\nOutside of film, Lynskey achieved fame with her portrayal of Rose on the sitcom \"Two and a Half Men\" (2003–2015). From 2015 to 2016, she starred as Michelle Pierson on the HBO series \"Togetherness\", for which she earned a nomination for the Critics' Choice Television Award for Best Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series. She provided the voices of Beatrice for Cartoon Network's \"Over the Garden Wall\" (2014) and Megan for Disney XD's \"Future-Worm!\" (2016–2018). She also starred as Molly Strand on Hulu's \"Castle Rock\" (2018) and played Rosemary Thomson in the miniseries \"Mrs. America\" (2020). Lynskey is engaged to actor Jason Ritter; they have one child.\n\nLynskey was born in New Plymouth, New Zealand, to Kay Lynskey, a former nurse, and Tim Lynskey, an orthopedic surgeon. She is the oldest of five children, and has three brothers and one sister. Her surname is Irish.\n\nDuring her childhood, Lynskey's family moved to England for one year before returning to New Zealand. She attended New Plymouth Girls' High School, where she was involved in the drama department and school plays. After high school, Lynskey studied at Victoria University of Wellington.\n\nLynskey made her professional acting debut at age 17, starring in \"Heavenly Creatures\", a psychological drama based on the Parker–Hulme murder case. Lynskey played Pauline Parker, a teenager who carries out a brutal crime, aided by her best friend (played by Kate Winslet). She auditioned for the role when a casting director visited her high school; prior to this, 500 girls had been considered for the part of Pauline, but \"none were right\". Fran Walsh—the film's co-writer—admired Lynskey's \"quiet intensity\", and said, \"we knew immediately that she was right for the role\". The film, which was directed by Peter Jackson, was met with critical acclaim upon its release in 1994. Roger Ebert praised Jackson for casting \"the right two actresses\", noting that \"there is a way Lynskey has of looking up from beneath glowering eyebrows that lets you know her insides are churning\". Owen Gleiberman described Lynskey as \"extraordinary\", while Richard Corliss wrote in his review for \"Time\", \"The film's serendipitous stroke was to find Winslet and, especially, Lynskey, a first-time actress. They are perfect, fearless in embodying teenage hysteria\".\n\n\"Heavenly Creatures\" is recognized as a landmark in New Zealand cinema. It was nominated for Best Original Screenplay at the 67th Academy Awards, while Lynskey was named Best Actress at the 1995 New Zealand Film and Television Awards. She regards working with Jackson and Winslet as an important learning experience. During the making of the film she grew particularly close to Winslet, who later said, \"Mel is like the left side of my body. [We] had the exact relationship in terms of communication and love that Pauline and Juliet had. From the minute we saw each other\".\n\nAfter a two-year gap, during which she attended university and auditioned for a part in \"The Crucible\" (1996), Lynskey secured a leading role in the independent drama \"Foreign Correspondents\", which was filmed in Los Angeles in 1997 and gained attention for its use of crowdfunding. The following year, she broke into the mainstream when she appeared as Drew Barrymore's \"nice\" stepsister in \"Ever After\", a re-imagining of the Cinderella story. The film was a commercial and critical success.\n\nIn 1999, Lynskey appeared in four features: \"Detroit Rock City\", \"The Cherry Orchard\", \"Shooters\", and the cult hit \"But I'm a Cheerleader\", which is considered to be one of the best LGBT films of all time. Next, she had a key role in the romantic comedy \"Coyote Ugly\" (2000), and starred as an intrepid daredevil in the award-winning New Zealand thriller \"Snakeskin\" (2001). For the latter, she received strong reviews and a nomination for Best Actress at the Nokia New Zealand Film Awards.\n\nIn 2002, Lynskey played the childhood best friend of Reese Witherspoon in \"Sweet Home Alabama\", which had a record-breaking opening weekend in North America. She then appeared alongside Katie Holmes in \"Abandon\", and made her television debut in \"Rose Red\", a miniseries written by Stephen King. The series was a ratings hit with an average of 18.5 million viewers over three consecutive nights.\n\nIn 2003, Lynskey played a writer for \"The New Republic\" in \"Shattered Glass\", a film based on the career of former journalist Stephen Glass. Jeff Otto of IGN called it \"a tension-filled drama with great performances\". Later that year, she landed the part of Rose, the devious but lovable neighbor of Charlie Harper (played by Charlie Sheen) on the CBS sitcom \"Two and a Half Men.\" After initially appearing in the pilot episode as a guest character, Lynskey was invited to become a series regular, and went on to appear frequently throughout the show's first two seasons. Despite leaving the main cast in 2005 to concentrate on film work, she continued to make guest appearances on the show up until its final episode, which aired in February 2015.\n\nIn 2006, Lynskey appeared in the Clint Eastwood-directed war film \"Flags of Our Fathers\". She then played one of the principal characters on the short-lived television series \"Drive\", which ran for just six episodes in 2007. The following year, she had a supporting role in the miniseries \"Comanche Moon\", and returned to New Zealand to star in \"Show of Hands\", for which she earned a nomination for Best Actress at the Qantas Film and Television Awards.\n\nIn 2009, Lynskey received strong reviews for \"Away We Go\", a comedy-drama directed by Sam Mendes in which she played a woman who has suffered a series of miscarriages. Wesley Morris of \"The Boston Globe\" called it \"the best performance in the movie\". Next, she co-starred as Matt Damon's wife in Steven Soderbergh's dark comedy \"The Informant!\". The film—which is based on real events—was described as \"devilish fun\" by \"Rolling Stone\", while Geoffrey Macnab wrote that Lynskey provided \"sterling support\" in his review for \"The Independent\". Soderbergh told \"The Los Angeles Times\", \"She is so watchable. You never quite know what you're going to get, you just know it's going to be good. Her rhythms are really unusual, like her cadence and her reaction times to things, and the way she sort of lays out a sentence. It's just really, really interesting\". Lynskey counts her time working on \"The Informant!\" as one of her favorite experiences.\n\nAlso in 2009, she appeared as Edward Norton's pregnant fiancée in \"Leaves of Grass\", and as George Clooney's younger sister in \"Up in the Air\". The latter was nominated for Best Picture at the 82nd Academy Awards. The film's director, Jason Reitman, had never before cast a foreigner to play an American character, but Lynskey said that she \"tricked\" him into giving her the part by not speaking to him during her audition, therefore concealing her native accent. Reitman said he was \"thrilled\" by this. In October 2009, Lynskey was presented with a Spotlight Award at the Hollywood Film Festival.\n\nIn 2010, she had a starring role in \"Helena from the Wedding\"; Jon Frosch of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" called it a \"wise, luminous low-budget comedy\", adding, \"The actors form a seamless ensemble, but [the film] belongs to ... Lynskey\". The following year, she received praise for her portrayal of Cindy—a recovering drug addict—in \"Win Win\", where she co-starred with Paul Giamatti. Writing for \"Time\", Mary Pols said, \"[Lynskey] has become one of the most reliably intriguing supporting actresses in film ... she had small parts in \"Away We Go\", \"The Informant!\" and \"Up in the Air\" ... she was wonderful in all three. In [this] she gives a very different kind of performance and is even better\".\n\nIn 2012, Lynskey appeared alongside Steve Carell in \"Seeking a Friend for the End of the World\", and had a key role in \"The Perks of Being a Wallflower\", playing the mentally troubled Aunt Helen. Due to the nature of the character, Lynskey said it had been a difficult decision to take the part. Also that year, she starred in the romantic comedy \"Putzel\"; Mark Hinson of the \"Tallahassee Democrat\" felt that her performance \"steals the show ... [the film] sparks to life whenever the charming Lynskey arrives on the screen\".\n\nLynskey's portrayal of Amy—a divorcee who finds herself having to move back in with her parents—in \"Hello I Must Be Going\" (2012) was particularly well received by critics. For the first time in her career, Lynskey appeared in every scene throughout the film; she described the experience as \"a lot of pressure\", and said that she initially assumed the part would be given to Michelle Williams or Maggie Gyllenhaal. Speaking of his decision to cast Lynskey, director Todd Louiso said, \"I knew if I cast her, the film had the potential to resonate on a thousand different levels\". In his review for \"The Los Angeles Times\", Kenneth Turan wrote, \"If you know the name Melanie Lynskey, you're already planning to see her in \"Hello I Must Be Going\". If you don't, this film will have you making up for lost time. That's how good an actress she is\". \"USA Today\" praised the film for being \"well-written, involving and emotionally honest\", noting that \"Lynskey brings dimension and intelligence [to the role]\". The performance earned her a nomination for the Gotham Independent Film Award for Breakthrough Actor. In 2015, Screen Rant placed Lynskey's portrayal of Amy at #6 on their list of the '20 Best Acting Performances of The Last 5 Years'.\n\nIn 2013, she had a starring role in \"The Big Ask\"; the film received a mixed reception from critics, but Lynskey's performance was praised. In April the following year, she was named an Emerging Master honoree at the RiverRun International Film Festival. Her next role was in \"Happy Christmas\" (2014), where she played Kelly, an aspiring novelist whose passion for writing is rekindled when her sister-in-law (played by Anna Kendrick) comes to visit. The film drew attention for being almost entirely improvised. Stephen Holden of \"The New York Times\" commented, \"The performances in \"Happy Christmas\" are so natural that the actors melt into their characters\", while other critics singled out Lynskey as a highlight. Later that year, she appeared as Amy Poehler's best friend in \"They Came Together\", and played the female leads in \"We'll Never Have Paris\" and \"Goodbye to All That\"; in his review of the latter, Bilge Ebiri described Lynskey as \"fantastic\". Next, she provided the voice of Beatrice, an ill-tempered bluebird, for the Cartoon Network miniseries \"Over the Garden Wall\". Kevin Johnson of \"The A.V. Club\" noted, \"Lynskey steals the show with her amazing putdowns and passive-aggressiveness, smartly avoiding overdone sass or sarcasm\". The series went on to receive three Creative Arts Emmy Awards, including Outstanding Animated Program.\n\nFrom 2015 to 2016, Lynskey played Michelle Pierson on the HBO series \"Togetherness\", which focused on the lives of two couples living under the same roof. The show ran for two seasons, and was praised for its intimate storytelling and the performances of its cast. Robert Lloyd of \"The Los Angeles Times\" wrote, \"[Lynskey] is all deep waters and live wires; soft and steely, trying on new personas for size, her Michelle becomes the series' gravitational center. You can feel her feeling\". The performance earned Lynskey a nomination for the 2015 Critics' Choice Television Award for Best Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series. Despite missing out on a Primetime Emmy Award nomination in 2016, she was singled out as a worthy candidate in the run-up to that year's ceremony. In March 2016, it was announced that HBO had decided not to renew \"Togetherness\" for a third season. Lynskey later compared this to having her \"heart broken by someone I'm still in love with\".\n\nFor her role in \"The Intervention\" (2016), Lynskey received the U.S. Dramatic Special Jury Award for Individual Performance at the Sundance Film Festival. In his review for IndieWire, Russ Fischer pointed out Lynskey's \"tremendously good comic timing\", while Ethan Anderton of /Film noted, \"Lynskey is the standout, delivering a performance that is genuine, funny and touching all at the same time\". The film was the directional debut of Clea DuVall, who wrote the character of Annie—an uptight alcoholic—specifically for Lynskey. She attended therapy before the film went into production to prepare herself for working with DuVall, her close friend of several years: \"I didn't want anything to happen to our friendship and a big challenge was being able to stick up for myself and my perspective in regard to the script and this character\". Also that year, she starred in the BBC Two comedy pilot \"Our Ex-Wife\", as well as the independent features \"Rainbow Time\", \"Little Boxes\" and \"The Great & The Small\". \"Variety\"'s Joe Leydon described her performance in the latter as \"quietly devastating\".\n\nIn 2017, Lynskey's portrayal of a downtrodden vigilante in the comedic thriller \"I Don't Feel at Home in This World Anymore\" received widespread critical acclaim. The film's director, Macon Blair, wrote the character of Ruth with Lynskey in mind. The role proved to be physically challenging for her, as it involved several stunts and the use of prosthetics. Peter Debruge of \"Variety\" felt that Lynskey delivered her \"best work yet\", while \"Time Out\"'s Joshua Rothkopf described her as \"seething and magnetic\". The film was awarded the Grand Jury Prize at Sundance, while Lynskey received a nomination for the Gotham Independent Film Award for Best Actress. Also that year, she starred as the parent of a troubled teenager in the controversial drama \"And Then I Go\"; as a defense lawyer in the Australian miniseries \"Sunshine\", for which she received a Golden Nymph Award nomination; as the mother of a girl with supernatural powers in \"The Changeover\"; and in the horror film \"XX\", in which her character frantically tries to hide her husband's body after finding him dead. In her review of the latter, Stephanie Zacharek of \"Time\" wrote, \"The picture has a wry, comic charge, and Lynskey, terrific as always, brings a grace note of pathos to the wicked proceedings\".\n\nIn 2018, she had a starring role in the independent drama \"Sadie\" (2018); \"Variety\" described the film as \"quietly absorbing\", adding that Lynskey's work was \"strong\" and \"compelling\". Next, she appeared as Molly Strand on the first season of \"Castle Rock\", a psychological horror series based on characters and settings from the novels of Stephen King. The series premiered on Hulu in July 2018 and garnered positive reviews from critics, particularly for the cast; \"Paste\" referred to Lynskey's portrayal of Molly as \"delicately complex\", while \"Rolling Stone\"'s Alan Sepinwall felt the show was \"the latest example of how much humanity and grounding Melanie Lynskey can bring to the most surreal and macabre of stories ... a tradition that goes back to when she was a teenager in \"Heavenly Creatures\"\". In August 2018, it was announced that the series had been renewed; however, Lynskey has said the next season will feature a different set of actors.\n\nIt was announced in May 2019 that Lynskey will co-star with Cate Blanchett in the FX miniseries \"Mrs. America\", due to air in 2020.\n\nLynskey describes herself as a character actress. \"Even when I'm reading a script where I'm supposed to be looking at the lead role, I'll find myself gravitating toward some small weirdo in a few scenes instead\". Regarding her acting technique, Lynskey has said, \"I don't have any training ... so the only thing I have to go on is my own instinct. So if a director gives me a note that doesn't feel like it's in line with my instinct, it's very hard for me to do something that sort of feels like a lie. So, I'll argue it, and I can get kind of feisty because I feel it in my body, I know what is right\".\n\nAsked by an interviewer in 2012 on how she felt about typically being cast—up to that point—as a supporting player rather than a lead, Lynskey said it was something she had thought about a lot, and that the \"meaty\" parts are written for men, or Meryl Streep. \"For a while, I was only being sent fat-girl parts\", she said. \"Seriously? Sometimes I feel like I'm making some kind of radical statement because I'm a size 6\". She has subsequently taken on leading roles in numerous independent films and has been labelled an \"indie queen\".\n\nSpeaking in 2017 about taking risks in her film work, she said, \"I want to tell stories about women who are interesting and complicated and not like people you've seen before ... There aren't that many opportunities [to do that] except in the independent film world. I've made films that have cost $50,000 for the entire film. If you're willing to work like that, you get chances to do really creative, interesting stuff\".\n\nLynskey is often complimented on her ability to perform an American accent.\n\nIn 2012, Lynskey voiced an animated version of herself in an airline safety video for Air New Zealand.\n\nIn February 2013, she participated in a Live Read performance of the 1992 film \"Glengarry Glen Ross\". The read-through was directed by Jason Reitman, who assembled a cast of women to read the all-male script; Lynskey portrayed the role of George Aaronow (originally played by Alan Arkin).\n\nLynskey appeared on several occasions as part of \"The Thrilling Adventure Hour\", a staged production and podcast in the style of old-time radio that was held monthly in Los Angeles. The show ran from March 2005 to April 2015.\n\nIn 2015, she featured in the music video for the song \"Waiting on Love\" by Nicki Bluhm and The Gramblers.\n\nIn 2016, it was reported that she was attached to star in a television series written by Pamela Ribon. Lynskey described it as a \"dream\" part; however, the project has yet to materialize.\n\nIn June 2018, Lynskey was invited to become a member of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.\n\nIn 2001, Lynskey met American actor Jimmi Simpson during the filming of \"Rose Red\", in which they both appeared. They became engaged in 2005 and married on 14 April 2007, in a chapel on Lake Hayes, near Queenstown, New Zealand. Lynskey filed for divorce from Simpson on 25 September 2012, citing irreconcilable differences. The divorce was finalized on 23 May 2014. In February 2017, she became engaged to actor Jason Ritter after four years of dating. Lynskey had her first child, a daughter, in December 2018.\n\nLynskey lives in Los Angeles. She is best friends with Clea DuVall, whom she met when they appeared together in \"But I'm a Cheerleader\". Lynskey became a vegetarian at age 10 after learning about sheep farming. As of 2018, she identifies as a pescetarian. She suffers from misophonia.\n\n"}
{"id": "2190188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190188", "title": "Loveless (manga)", "text": "Loveless (manga)\n\nA 12-episode anime television series adaptation was made by J.C. Staff, broadcast in a post-midnight slot on TV Asahi and ABC from April 2005 to June 2005. The anime series was licensed and released in the US by Media Blasters in a set of 3 DVDs in early 2006.\n\nThe most immediately noticeable aspect of the story is that many characters are \"kemonomimi\"—cat-like features (in this case, ears and tails) are universal from birth, so there are as many catboys, including the protagonist, as there are catgirls. People in the \"Loveless\" universe lose their animal features when they lose their virginity. Those who no longer have animal features are differentiated by society as \"adults\".\n\nIn his first day at his new school, a then twelve-year-old Ritsuka Aoyagi meets a mysterious twenty-year-old male named Soubi Agatsuma. Soubi claims to be a good friend of Ritsuka's brother, Seimei, who was murdered 2 years earlier. Upon the inspection of Seimei's abandoned computer files, Ritsuka discovers that an organization called was responsible for Seimei's death.\n\nAs Ritsuka quickly discovers, Seimei and Soubi acted as a pair involved in spell battles invoked by carefully selected words. Now Soubi is Ritsuka's 'sentouki', or Fighter Unit, and Ritsuka is his 'Sacrifice'. Together, they challenge Septimal Moon to find out the truth behind Seimei's murder and the reason for Ritsuka's amnesia, and form an intimate bond as they unravel the mystery.\n\n\"Loveless\" focuses on \"the power of words in creating our reality, the meaning of memory, the strength of family, and the loss of innocence\".\n\nWritten and illustrated by Yun Kōga, \"Loveless\" appears as a serial in Japanese magazine \"Monthly Comic Zero Sum\", where it has been serialized since May 2002. The chapters are collected into \"tankōbon\" and published by Ichijinsha. Thirteen \"tankōbon\" have been released so far, with the first being published on July 1, 2002, and the thirteenth released on July 25, 2017.\n\nTokyopop licensed \"Loveless\" for an English-language release in North America. The first volume was published on February 7, 2006, and the eighth was released on September 1, 2008; Tokyopop then went out of business. In October 2011, Viz Media announced that they had acquired the license and would continue publishing the series from volume 9. Volume 13 is available for pre-orders online and is set for a June 12, 2018, release. The series is also licensed in Australia and New Zealand by Madman Entertainment, in France by Soleil Manga, in Germany by Egmont Manga & Anime, in Italy by J-POP, in Russia by Comics Factory, and in Brazil by NewPOP.\n\nA light novel \"Loveless – Ephemeral Bonds\" written by Natsui Aya and illustrated by Yun Kōga. It was published last July in Iris magazine, published by Ichijinsha, the original \"Loveless\" publisher.\n\nA 12-episode anime adaptation was made by J.C.Staff, and first aired in Japan from April 2005 to June 2005. The episodes covered approximately volumes 1–4, due to production starting in August 2004—about four months before volume 5 was published. Because the source material hadn't finished its serialization, and with a limit of 12 episodes, the anime adaptation has quite a few differences. The most notable is the series finale, which was written specifically for the anime and left the storyline open to the possibility of a future sequel. The opening theme music was \"Tsuki no Curse\" and the ending theme was \"Michiyuki\"; both were composed by Yuki Kajiura and arranged by Masayuki Sakamoto, and performed by Kaori Hikita. Media Blasters licensed and released an English subtitled version in early 2006. On April 26, 2011, Media Blasters re-released the series with an English dub titling it as \"Loveless: Vocal Collection\". The series is also licensed in German by Tokyopop.\n\nGeneon Entertainment published multiple \"Loveless\" drama CDs. It re-released five drama CDs based on the manga from October 24, 2007, to December 2, 2007. Four drama CDs based on the anime adaption were released from May 25, 2005, to September 22, 2005. Another set of drama CDs based on the anime adaption, \"Hairless\" and \"Actless\", were released on April 23, 2008, and May 23, 2008, respectively.\nFive character drama CDs were released from May 25, 2006, to September 22, 2006.\n\nGeneon Entertainment also released the soundtrack to the anime on June 24, 2005. The CD included the beginning and ending themes and fifteen background tracks. On September 8, 2006, a vocal album featuring songs performed by Konishi Katsuyuki, Junko Minagawa, and Jun Fukuyama was released.\n\nSome readers of \"Loveless\" regard the relationship between Soubi Agatsuma and Ritsuka Aoyagi as shotacon. IGN considers the relationship between Soubi and Ritsuka to be handled tastefully, despite their large age gap. Yun Kōga stated that she doesn't \"consider it as yaoi\" manga, although her \"fans do\".\n\nJulie Rosato of Mania regards the art as beautiful, saying that she would read the story for the art alone, but fortunately the storyline is complex and dark.\n\nThe Book Report's Robin Brenner liked the art, describing it as \"breathtaking --- fluid, dark, and full of slicing edges\". Brenner also commented that the series is \"the kind of manga that startles a reader with just how close it treads to taboo lines without ever crossing over into true transgression.\"\n\nT.A. Noonan describes the plot as \"a nuanced tale of love, identity, self-discovery, and the power of language\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2190194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190194", "title": "Architecture of Hong Kong", "text": "Architecture of Hong Kong\n\nThe architecture of Hong Kong features great emphasis on contemporary architecture, especially Modernism, Postmodernism, Functionalism, etc. Due to the lack of available land, few historical buildings remain in the urban areas of Hong Kong. Therefore, Hong Kong has become a centre for modern architecture as older buildings are cleared away to make space for newer, larger buildings. It has more buildings above 35m (or 100m) and more skyscrapers above 150m than any other city. Hong Kong's skyline is often considered to be the best in the world, with the mountains and Victoria Harbour complementing the skyscrapers.\n\nBack in the day of the Nanyue kingdom, Hong Kong was already inhabited. Baiyue peoples in the area demonstrated some level of sophistication in architecture. An example is the Lei Cheng Uk Han Tomb.\n\nPrior to the British settlement of Hong Kong in 1841, architecture in Hong Kong was predominantly Cantonese. With the majority of the population being fishers at the mercy of typhoons and pirates, numerous Tin Hau temples were dedicated to their patron Goddess Mazu. Likewise farmers built fortified villages to defend themselves from bandits.\n\nAfter the British established the entrepôt of Victoria City (now Central and Western District on Hong Kong Island), the local population increased substantially, and as a result \"Tong Lau\" (tenement common in Southern China, especially Lingnan) began to appear. These were three-to-four-storey buildings, tightly packed in city blocks, and combining Southern Chinese and European architectural elements. The ground floor were typically shops, with apartments and small balconies upstairs. These buildings had stairs but no elevators, and sometimes had no toilet facility. These \"Tong Lau\" remained the mainstay of Hong Kong architecture until at least World War II; a number of these building survive to this day, albeit often in a derelict state.\n\nMeanwhile, the British introduced Victorian and Edwardian architectural styles from the mid-19th century onwards. Notable surviving examples include the Legislative Council Building, the Central Police Station and Murray House. One building that has since been demolished was the Hong Kong Club Building; it was built atop a smaller structure designed in Italian Renaissance Revival style in 1897. The building was the subject of a bitter heritage conservation struggle in the late 1970s, which ultimately failed to save the building.\n\nThe first building in Hong Kong to be classified as the first high rise was constructed between June 1904 and December 1905. It consisted of 5 major buildings, each stacking 5 to 6 stories high. The structures were raised by the Hong Kong Land company under Catchick Paul Chater and James Johnstone Keswick.\n\nMost high rise buildings to be built afterwards were for business purposes; the first true skyscraper in Hong Kong was built for HongkongBank in 1935, which was also the first building in Hong Kong to have air conditioning; however this has since been replaced with the HSBC Main Building, Hong Kong of 1985. Likewise the few examples of 1930s Streamline Moderne and Bauhaus architecture in Hong Kong, such as the Central Market and the Wan Chai Market, are facing imminent demolitions despite protests from heritage conservation groups.\n\nIn the residential sector, multi-story buildings did not appear until the \"Buildings Ordinance 1955\" lifted the height limit of residential buildings. This change was necessitated by the massive influx of refugees into Hong Kong after the Communist revolution in China in 1949, and the subsequent Shek Kip Mei slum fire in 1953.\nPublic housing estates, originally seven-storeys high with notoriously cramped conditions, public bathrooms and no kitchens, were hastily built to accommodate the homeless; meanwhile private apartments, still tightly packed into city blocks like the \"Tong Lau\" of old, had grown to over 20 stories high by the mid-1960s.\n\nThe private housing estate began in 1965 with Mei Foo Sun Chuen. The first major private construction came from Swire properties in 1972 with the development of middle-class estate of Taikoo Shing. With little space wasted on statues or landmarks that consumed unnecessary real estate, Taikoo Shing's design was the new standard.\n\nIn the late 1990s, the primary demand for high-end buildings was in and around Central. The buildings of Central comprise the skyline along the coast of the Victoria Harbour, a famous tourist attraction in Hong Kong. But until Kai Tak Airport closed in 1998, strict height restrictions were in force in Kowloon so that aeroplanes could come in to land. These restrictions have now been lifted and many new skyscrapers in Kowloon have been constructed, including the International Commerce Centre at the West Kowloon reclamation, which has been the tallest building in Hong Kong since its completion in 2010.\n\nMany commercial and residential towers built in the past two decades are among the tallest in the world, including Highcliff, The Arch, and The Harbourside. Still, more towers are under construction, like One Island East. At present, Hong Kong has the world's biggest skyline with a total of 7,681 skyscrapers, placing it ahead of even New York City, despite the fact that New York is larger in area. Most of these were built in past two decades.\n\nHong Kong's best-known building is probably I. M. Pei's Bank of China Tower. The building attracted heated controversy from the moment its design was released to the public, which continued for years after the building's completion in 1990. The building was said to cast negative feng shui energy into the heart of Hong Kong due to the building's sharp angles. One rumour even went so far as to say that the negative energy was concentrated on the Government House as a Chinese plot to foil any decisions taken there. The two white aerials on top on the building were deemed inauspicious as two sticks of incense are burned for the dead.\n\nOne of the largest construction projects in Hong Kong has been the new Hong Kong International Airport on Chek Lap Kok near Lantau, which was the most extensive single civil engineering project ever undertaken. Designed by Sir Norman Foster, the huge land reclamation project is linked to the centre of Hong Kong by the Lantau Link, which features three new major bridges: the world's sixth largest suspension bridge, Tsing Ma, which was built in 1997, connecting the islands of Tsing Yi and Ma Wan; the world's longest cable-stayed bridge carrying both road and railway traffic, Kap Shui Mun, which links Ma Wan and Lantau; and the world's first major 4-span cable-stayed bridge, Ting Kau, which connects Tsing Yi and the mainland New Territories.\n\nIn recent years, the new architecture in Hong Kong tends to focus on providing more public green spaces that combine environmentally friendly concepts together with cultural exchanges, aiming to improve the quality of life for the city's people. Besides green space, there are also the developments of unused old spaces by turning them into cultural hubs that nurture creativities and innovations. Architects have also explored more energy-efficient design.\n\nLocated at the headland of Kowloon, the West Kowloon Waterfront Promenade is a quiet haven in the busy city. Stroll along the boardwalk and find yourself surrounded on all sides by Hong Kong's iconic waterfront scenes. The promenade includes an area for cultural exchanges, where live music is played during the weekends. A nice cycling and jogging path provide citizens an amazing harbour view while doing exercises.\n\nA design hub which utilises old, unused spaces to create platforms for a variety of start-ups to showcase their best innovations and products for the public to get access to. After two years of renovations, the former police married quarters in Aberdeen Street, Central, has been reborn as PMQ.\n\nAlthough studio spaces are small (about 450 sq ft), the hub is a great venue to foster a community. Spacious open-air corridors in front of each unit will be used for exhibitions and pop-up events; there will be a co-working space and units for overseas designers-in-residence. The PMQ's entrepreneurial focus is the best chance for young Hong Kong designers to become successful, since the hierarchical nature of most local companies stifles innovation.\n\nIt is a project which set to promote high end technologies and innovation ideas exchange. The development is a key infrastructure projects that integrates with Hong Kong's advancement as a regional hub for high-tech innovation. The Hong Kong Science Park is located at Tolo Harbour and comprises three phases. Phase I site is divided into three zones: Core, Corporate and Campus. The Core Zone is centrally located and consists of communal and recreational facilities, meeting and conference rooms, exhibition halls, shops, dining areas as well as office spaces for small size companies. The Corporate Zone is located along the waterfront and is reserved for large size corporate companies who wish to operate in a building solely owned by them. The Campus Zone is situated by the Tolo Highway and is designed to accommodate medium size companies in multi-tenants buildings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2190195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190195", "title": "Changeover", "text": "Changeover\n\nIn manufacturing, changeover is the process of converting a line or machine from running one product to another. Changeover times can last from a few minutes to as much as several weeks in the case of automobile manufacturers retooling for new models. Reducing changeover times became a popular way to reduce waste in Lean manufacturing after Taiichi Ohno and Shingo Shigeo popularized the SMED (Single Minute Die Exchange) method in the, now famous, Toyota Production System (TPS). The terms \"set-up\" and \"changeover\" are sometimes used interchangeably however this usage is incorrect. Set-up is only one component of changeover. Example: A soft drink bottler may run 16oz glass bottles one day, perform a changeover on the line and then run 20oz plastic bottles the next day.\n\nChangeover can be divided into the 3 Ups:\n\n\"Clean-up product, materials and components from the line. It may range from minor, if only the label of a package is being changed (for example from an English to a Spanish label) to major, requiring complete disassembly of the equipment, cleaning and sterilizing of the line components in the case of an injectable pharmaceutical product.\n\n\"Set-up\" is the process of actually converting the equipment. This may be achieved by adjusting the equipment to correspond to the next product or by changing non-adjustable \"change parts\" to accommodate the product. Typically it will be a combination of both.\n\n\"Start-up\" is the time spent fine tuning the equipment after it has been restarted. It is characterized by frequent stoppages, jams, quality rejects and other problems. It is generally caused by variability in the clean-up and set-up or by variability in the product or its components.\n\n"}
{"id": "2190209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190209", "title": "Butter Brickle", "text": "Butter Brickle\n\nButter Brickle is a chocolate-coated toffee first sold by candy manufacturer John G. Woodward Co. of Council Bluffs, Iowa, and a toffee ice cream flavoring, manufactured by The Fenn Bros. Ice Cream and Candy Co. of Sioux Falls, South Dakota.\n\n\"Butter Brickle\" was first sold on , and the trademark registered by candy manufacturer John G. Woodward Co. in Council Bluffs, Iowa for candy, not ice cream. \n\nArthur E. Dempsey, a candy maker and later, inventor, at John G. Woodward Co. in Council Bluffs, Iowa, reportedly, was the creator of the candy, trademarked as \"Butter Brickle\"\n\nFenn Bros. Ice Cream and Candy Co., founded in 1898, by Henry C. Fenn and James W. Fenn, is most known for its registered trademark chocolate-coated toffee, and toffee ice cream flavoring called \"Butter Brickle\". The products were called: \"Fenn's Butter Brickle English Toffee Chocolate Covered\" and \"Fenn's Butter Brickle Candy Ice Cream Flavoring\".\n\nOmaha, Nebraska's Blackstone Hotel's \"Orleans Room\" restaurant has been credited with creating Butter Brickle ice cream, in the late 1920s. Small pieces of the toffee candy bar were used, in effect, to make a Mix-in, later sold as the product, Fenn's \"Butter Brickle\" Candy Ice Cream Flavoring.\n\nBesides \"Butter Brickle\", the company also made \"Walnut Crush\", \"Blue Seal Nougat\", \"Smooth Sailin’\", \"Royal Brazils\", and \"Big Bogie\" (later \"Big Nougat\") and Ice Cream. \n\n\"He was in the music business from 1926 to 1939 and was director of De-Long's Cataract Hotel Orchestra, He was director of DeLong's Blue Seal Orchestra which was the first sponsored musical program on KSOO Radio by Fenn's Blue Seal Nougat Bar.\"\n\nThe United States Food and Drug Administration cited them in 1940 for labeling and in 1947 for filthy product.\n\nIn the late 1950s and 1960s, Butter Brickle candy bars were advertised on radio and television with the slogan \"Got a nickel? Butter Brickle... candy bar!\" delivered in an arch stage British accent.\n\nAt the company’s peak, more than 200 people worked at Fenn’s, making it one of Sioux Falls' largest employers.\n\n\"I'd work on the beater, but most times I had to cool cooked nougat,\" she says. The nougat was cooked in large copper kettles and heated to . It was used in one of Fenn's most popular offerings, the Walnut Crush. Walnuts were added to the nougat, and then it was coated with chocolate. Another specialty, the Big Bogie, came in three flavors, vanilla, chocolate and strawberry. It is kin to a candy called Charleston Chew. \"Bill Fenn came up one time with that candy bar and said, \"Can you guys make this bar?\" and I said, \"Oh, I think we can,\" \" John says. A recipe for one batch of chocolate Big Bogies requires of corn syrup, of sugar and of salt And that doesn't include the chocolate covering. ... The production of stick candy halted during WWII. When sugar was rationed by the government, the company devoted its efforts to the growing popularity of its candy bars. Even those didn't stay the same. Over the years, the Wiemans saw candy bars come and go and the price jump from a nickel to a dime. Lily liked the Blue Seal Nougat. Similar to a Walnut Crush, it had vanilla flavoring in the nougat, not maple syrup, and was coated with sweet chocolate, not dark chocolate. They both wrinkle their noses at the thought of a candy bar that was made with white chocolate - \"imitation white chocolate,\" Lily points out with disdain.\"\n\nThe Fenn Bros. manufactured \"Butter Brickle\" candy and flavoring until the 1970s, when the company liquidated. The \"Butter Brickle\" trademark and formula were sold to the company Leaf, Inc., which manufactured Heath Bars.\n\nA remnant of the name remains in \"Heath Bits 'o Brickle Toffee Bits,\" sold by The Hershey Company, which acquired the Heath assets in 1996.\n\n\"Butter Brickle\" flavor ice cream is currently sold by ice-cream makers, the name \"Butter Brickle\" used under license.\n\nIn the T.V show \"Two and a Half Men\", Rose requests Charlie to bring her some Butter Brickle ice cream.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2190213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190213", "title": "Hawthorne Circle", "text": "Hawthorne Circle\n\nHawthorne Circle was a large traffic circle connecting two major state highways located in Hawthorne, New York, United States, which carried over 67,000 cars daily at its peak. Opened in 1931 to join the Taconic and Saw Mill River parkways, it was replaced in 1971 with a three-level interchange. A segment of the Taconic continued on to connect to the Bronx River Parkway, adding to the area's congestion. \n\nThe Sprain Brook Parkway, the northern terminus of which lies just south of the circle, was not completed until 1980.\n\n"}
{"id": "2190220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190220", "title": "The Bunker (book)", "text": "The Bunker (book)\n\nThe Bunker (), also published as The Berlin Bunker, is a 1975 account, written by American journalist James P. O'Donnell and German journalist Uwe Bahnsen, of the history of the \"Führerbunker\" in early 1945, as well as the last days of German dictator Adolf Hitler. The English edition was first published in 1978. Unlike other accounts O'Donnell focused considerable time on other, less-famous, residents of the bunker complex. Additionally, unlike the more academic works by historians, the book takes a journalistic approach. The book was later used as the basis for a 1981 CBS television film with the same name.\n\nDuring World War II, O'Donnell worked in the U.S. Army Signal Corps. On July 1, 1945, he was mustered out and immediately took a position as German bureau chief for \"Newsweek\" magazine. On July 4, he arrived in Berlin with instructions to get details on Hitler's last days, as well as information on Eva Braun.\n\nSoon after arriving, he traveled to the bunker complex, which was mainly overlooked by troops (who were more interested in the Reich Chancellory). He found it guarded by two Red Army soldiers, and for the price of two packs of cigarettes, he gained access to it. He found the bunker complex a flooded, cluttered, stinking mess.\n\nIronically (and essential, given his later work), the bunker had not, even at this late point, been systematically investigated by the Russians. Lying around for anyone to pick up were such historic items as Hitler's appointment book, Martin Bormann's personal diary, the battle log for Berlin, and segments of Joseph Goebbels' diary. Right in front of O'Donnell, a British colonel took as a \"war souvenir\" a blueprint for a reconstruction of Hitler's hometown Linz, in Austria. This historic document (brooded over by Hitler during his last days) ended up over the colonel's fireplace in Kent.\n\nAs the new bureau chief, O'Donnell wrote about developments, such as the Russian discovery and identification (after several mistakes) of Hitler's body in mid-May of the same year. In August, he came upon a strange sight - the Russians were apparently making a documentary reconstructing Hitler's final days.\n\nAlthough the bunker complex fell within the Soviet Union controlled sector of Berlin, and many of the survivors were captured by the Soviets, it was the Western powers who revealed the first accurate account of Hitler's death. The British historian Hugh Trevor-Roper, on November 1, held a press conference (covered by O'Donnell) where he revealed the generally accepted theory of Hitler's death. While O'Donnell agreed with Trevor-Roper's account save for some minor details (and, in \"The Bunker\", continues to agree with it), he was unsatisfied with this account. Some reasons he gave were:\n\n\nIn 1969, O'Donnell met Albert Speer, who had just published his memoirs (he wrote an article on Speer for \"Life\", published in 1970). At this point, O'Donnell realized that many of the aforementioned witnesses had long since been released by the Soviets. He began to track them down.\n\nOver the next six years, O'Donnell narrowed his list of witnesses to about 50, and embarked on a project to collate their stories. He usually had these witnesses read his work to verify its authenticity. The book was the result.\n\nWhile O'Donnell had 50 witnesses, some saw more than others. Below is a rough list of his main sources. He singled out these sources by eliminating individuals who never saw Hitler after April 22, 1945.\n\n\nThe following observers were captured by the Soviets and held for a decade, and were thus unavailable for many of the initial accounts of Hitler's death.\n\n\nWhile most people were cooperative, a few didn't speak to O'Donnell. Johanna Wolf, another Hitler secretary, declined to talk since she was a \"private\" secretary. Albert Bormann, Martin Bormann's brother, also refused to cooperate because of family connections. Other people who had been close to Hitler in the final days, most notably Ambassador Walther Hewel, committed suicide after the break-out attempt. More witnesses died in Soviet captivity, such as Dr. Werner Haase, the last physician to attend Hitler, who had already been gravely ill with tuberculosis in April 1945.\n\nO'Donnell established the following timeline, which corresponds with most other accounts of the bunker.\n\n\nSome of the above dates can be confusing, as Hitler kept unusual hours - he typically slept until late in the morning, went to bed around dawn, and held his military conferences around midnight or later.\n\nO'Donnell based the book on interviews. When witnesses disagreed, he evaluated them based on the \"reliability\" of their other statements, the agreement/disagreement with other witnesses, and with his intuition. Many critics (especially those from academic backgrounds) have taken issue with this methodology. Anticipating this, O'Donnell wrote in the prologue: \n\nO'Donnell asserted that his method - interviewing the witnesses - is superior to the methods used by academics, noting that much of the written documentation was burned or otherwise destroyed in the final days of the war. Also, written accounts do not allow the writer to \"read\" a person's expression. O'Donnell even noted that many of the people he interviewed, to make a point, would literally \"act out\" scenes, a touch not found in historical archives.\n\nFurthermore, he disputed the reliability of the interrogations of witnesses in 1945, which are used as primary sources by most historians. He argued that these interrogations, because of the recent occurrence of the bunker events, the end of the war, and worries over possible criminal charges, were about as accurate as \"asking the shell-shocked to describe exactly the burst of artillery.\" Moreover, many witnesses admitted that they either lied or withheld information during their 1945 interviews, mainly due to pressure from their interrogators (this was especially true of those captured by the Soviets). O'Donnell argued that the witnesses needed time to \"digest\" their experiences.\n\nHowever, many critics dispute whether this method was the most reliable. The most cited example was O'Donnell's complete acceptance of Albert Speer's claim to have tried to assassinate Hitler. While many professional historians dispute this claim due to lack of evidence, O'Donnell wrote about it unquestioningly. It is arguable that, if one compares the accounts written in \"The Bunker\" with those in \"Inside the Third Reich\", that O'Donnell presents the supposed assassination attempt as more dramatic and purposeful. Admittedly, O'Donnell befriended Speer, and interviewed him 17 times for the book, more than any other witness.\n\nO'Donnell also used hearsay evidence. He used Dr. Schenck for this on numerous occasions, first to discuss Hitler's health (since Hitler's personal SS physician, Haase, died in Russian captivity), and to discuss Hitler's final conversation with his friend Walther Hewel (who committed suicide right in front of Schenck).\n\nO'Donnell states other theories of the bunker events, some of which are criticized because of the above methodology. To name a few:\n\n\nOne of the most unusual claims made by O'Donnell involve the death of Hermann Fegelein. Witnesses claimed that he was killed partly because Hitler suspected his mistress at the time was a spy. O'Donnell created a theory out of this, and makes the claim that Fegelein's mistress actually \"was\" a spy, possibly a Hungarian working for British intelligence. However, he could not uncover evidence to support his theory.\n\nO'Donnell's main contribution to Führerbunker literature was his account of the \"breakout\" that occurred on the night of May 1–2, 1945 - no other historian (or writer) attempted to describe this event before him. He devotes two chapters to it.\n\nThe survivors divided into groups (some men, including General Hans Krebs, stayed behind to commit suicide). The groups left on the evening of May 1, each waiting a period of time after the others left. Their plan was to head underground, in the city's subway line, to emerge to the northwest, outside of the Russian-occupied zone of Berlin. The three main groups were:\n\n\nMisch and Hentschel remained behind in the bunker. Misch left on the morning of May 2, but was soon captured by the Russians. Hentschel stayed in the bunker, while some female Soviet army officers looted Eva Braun's room around noon before he too was taken by the Russians and flown to Moscow.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2190221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190221", "title": "Ric Wake", "text": "Ric Wake\n\nRic Wake is an Anglo-American record producer who has won four Grammy Awards and two Oscar Awards. During his tenure as staff producer with Sony Music Entertainment he has worked with vocalists such as Celine Dion, Whitney Houston, Lucero, Taylor Dayne, Mariah Carey, Jessica Simpson, Anastacia, Barry Manilow, Marc Anthony and Jennifer Lopez. He has worked with Greek composer Yanni to help produce \"Yanni Voices\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2190222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190222", "title": "Welsh Harp", "text": "Welsh Harp\n\nWelsh Harp may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2190230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190230", "title": "Sonova", "text": "Sonova\n\nSonova Holding AG (Phonak Holding AG before 1 August 2007) is an internationally active Swiss company headquartered in Stäfa that specializes in hearing care solutions (hearing instruments, cochlear implants, wireless communication solutions). It is one of the largest providers in the sector worldwide. The group operates through its core business brands Phonak, Unitron, Hansaton, Advanced Bionics and AudioNova.\n\nOn August 1, 2007 Phonak AG officially changed its name to Sonova Holding AG.\n\nSonova Group and its brands hold 24% of the global hearing aid market in sales.\n\nThe group traces its roots back to the Zurich-based \"AG für Elektroakustik,\" which was founded in 1947. Ernst Rihs acquired a majority shareholding in 1965, renaming the company \"Phonak AG.\" His two sons, Hans-Ueli and Andy Rihs, also went on to join the firm, along with Beda Diethelm; after Ernst Rihs’ death, the two sons took over his shares while Beda Diethelm became a shareholder with equal rights.\n\nPhonak Holding AG was founded in 1985 as a holding company for the Phonak Group. The company was floated on the SWX Swiss Exchange[2] in 1994 and renamed Sonova Holding AG on 1 August 2007, although this change applied only to the holding company; all the subsidiaries (including Phonak AG) and product names have remained unaffected.\n\nSonova mainly develops and markets hearing aids, cochlear implants, and wireless communication devices compatible with their hearing devices. As of March 2018, the Sonova Group was present in more than 90 countries and employed 14,242 staff, and had sales of CHF 2,645.9 million the previous year.\n\nThe group consists of more than 30 constituent companies. Its research facilities are located in Switzerland, Canada, and the USA, with manufacturing plants in Switzerland, China and Vietnam. Distribution is handled by its in-house wholesale network and independent sales partners. The group also owns retail outlets in selected countries.\n\nIn November 2009, Sonova announced the takeover of the Advanced Bionics Corporation, a company based in California which specializes in developing and manufacturing cochlear implants. The purchase was successfully completed in January 2010.\n\nIn March 2015, Sonova announced the takeover of Hansaton Akustik GmbH, a Hamburg-based, family-run wholesale hearing instrument company. The purchase was successfully completed in April 2015.\n\nIn May 2016, Sonova announced agreement to acquire AudioNova International B.V., one of Europe’s largest hearing aid retailers, and successfully completed the acquisition of AudioNova in September 2016. The combination of AudioNova and Sonova creates one of the broadest hearing aid retail service networks in Europe.\n\nThe Phonak Group sponsored the Phonak Cycling Team for seven years between 2000 and 2006, although its involvement in competition cycling and the successes it achieved were somewhat eclipsed by several doping affairs in which top riders from the Phonak Cycling Team were repeatedly implicated. On July 28, 2006, Phonak announced it was discontinuing its sponsorship activities in competition cycling.\n\nIn the fall of 2006, the Group’s Phonak AG subsidiary launched the Hear the World Foundation. The Foundation’s aim is to create a world in which each person has the chance of good hearing.\n\nThe Foundation became a group-wide initiative of Sonova in October 2012.\n\nSonova operates through its following core business brands:\n\nPhonak manufactures a wide range of digital hearing aids and integrated wireless communication systems. After the merger of Advanced Bionics into Sonova, Phonak started developing wireless technology for Advanced Bionics cochlear implants; notably the Roger receivers that connect to cochlear implant speech processors. In 2016, Phonak launched their first rechargeable hearing aid device.\n\nUnitron is another hearing aid producer owned by Sonova. Unitron was founded in 1964 and currently operates within 70 countries.\n\nAdvanced Bionics was founded in 1993 and has been a subsidiary of the Sonova Group since 2009. Advanced Bionics develops cochlear implant technology designed to help children and adults with profound hearing loss receive greater access to sound.\n\nUpon the acquisition by Sonova, Advanced Bionics started integrating Phonak technology into their speech processors, starting with the Naída series. Along with sound processors, the company utilizes Phonak technology for bluetooth streaming, Easycall, and FM systems.\n\nAs of 2016, Advanced Bionics' primary competitors were MED-EL and Cochlear Limited in the cochlear implant market, in which those two companies held around 70% of the market; as percent of the market share Advanced Bionics holds less than Cochlear Limited and more than MED-EL.\n\nIn November 2010, Advanced Bionics voluntarily recalled a batch of its HiRes 90K implants after at least two pediatric patients - Grace Bagadiong and Breanna Sadler, experienced painful malfunctions that resulted in electric shocks, convulsing, and vomiting. In Sadler v. Advanced Bionics the company was found to have been negligent and forced to pay punitive damages as well as for the medical care needed by the victim of the faulty device, but the company announced it would appeal on the grounds of the punitive damages being too high. Years before two pediatric patients had experienced such drastic device failures, the company had been repeatedly warned of problems with the HiRes90k since 2004. Over 4000 devices were recalled, of which 1000 had failed.\n"}
{"id": "2190234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190234", "title": "Gregory Harrison", "text": "Gregory Harrison\n\nGregory Neale Harrison (born May 31, 1950) is an American actor. He is known for his role as Chandler in the 1987 cult favorite \"North Shore\" and as Dr. George Alonzo \"Gonzo\" Gates, the young surgeon assistant of Dr. Trapper John MacIntyre (played by Pernell Roberts) on the CBS series \"Trapper John, M.D.\"(1979–86), and as the ruthless business tycoon, Michael Sharpe in the hit CBS television series, \"Falcon Crest\" (1989 - 1990). Since 2015, he has played Joe O'Toole, father of Oliver, in the Hallmark Channel expansion films of \"Signed, Sealed and Delivered\".\n\nHarrison was born in Avalon, California, in 1950, the son of Ed, a ship's captain and poet.\n\nHarrison served for two years in the United States Army during the Vietnam War era as a medic.\n\nHe was the title character on the 1977–78 science fiction series \"Logan's Run\", after which he played the role of Levi Zendt on the 1978 NBC miniseries \"Centennial\".\n\nIn 1979, after years of being a relatively unknown actor, Harrison finally won the role of surgeon, Dr. George \"Gonzo\" Gates on \"Trapper John, M.D.\", starring opposite Pernell Roberts on the medical drama spun off from \"M*A*S*H\". Harrison had guest starred on an episode of \"M*A*S*H\" the year after Wayne Rogers departed from his role as Trapper John on that series. Harrison remained as Gonzo on \"Trapper John\" until the middle of the show's seventh season, when he decided to leave for other ventures. The series continued for several more episodes without Harrison, but concluded its run at the end of the 1985–86 season. Harrison had been a fan of Roberts' role as the eldest son of the Cartwright family on the series \"Bonanza\" (1959–1973). The two remained friends until Roberts' death from pancreatic cancer on January 24, 2010.\n\nHarrison's later role as stripper John Phillips in the 1981 TV movie \"For Ladies Only\" made him a favorite with women and gay men in the 1980s. He spoofed that role in the 1986 miniseries \"Fresno\" where his character appeared shirtless at every opportunity. \"Fresno\" was also a spoof of the prime-time series, \"Falcon Crest\", where Harrison became a regular three years later in the final season (1989–90), opposite Jane Wyman, who was absent for nearly the remainder of the last season, due to her unhappiness with the direction her show was going. As \"Falcon Crest\" ended production in early 1990, the series' parent studio, Lorimar Television, cast Harrison in its upcoming CBS sitcom \"The Family Man\", from producers Thomas L. Miller and Robert L. Boyett. The series, which premiered that fall, featured Harrison as a single fireman father raising his four kids with the help of his father-in-law, played by Al Molinaro. Despite a few attempts by CBS to help it build an audience, \"The Family Man\" was cancelled after one season.\n\nHarrison later joined the cast of NBC's \"Sisters\" for the 1994–95 season, playing Daniel Albright. In 1996, he starred opposite Eric Roberts in \"It's My Party\", a film based on the true events of a man diagnosed with AIDS who planned a two-day party to say goodbye to his friends and family, and who then took his own life with pills.\n\nHe also starred in the WB Network's \"Safe Harbor\" and \"One Tree Hill\" and has made guest appearances on numerous other shows such as \"Touched by an Angel\", \"Judging Amy\", \"Reunion\", \"Joey\", \"\", \"Drop Dead Diva\" and \"Hot in Cleveland\".\n\nHe has played the lead in a touring version of the musical \"Chicago\" and was the male lead in each film of the \"Au Pair\" trilogy. He also appeared as Benjamin Stone in the Broadway revival of Stephen Sondheim's \"Follies\" and created a role in the original Broadway production of Kander & Ebb's \"Steel Pier\". In 2011 he had a guest starring role as a doctor on ABC's \"Body of Proof\".\n\nHarrison has been married since 1980 to actress Randi Oakes. The couple have four children, three girls and a boy. He lived in Gold Beach, Oregon, for 15 years; as of 2007, he lives in Eugene. He enjoys surfing and golf.\n\nHarrison became addicted to cocaine during the 1980s and was able to break the addiction with the help of the Betty Ford Center.\n\n"}
{"id": "2190236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190236", "title": "Xorazm Region", "text": "Xorazm Region\n\nXorazm Region (, خارەزم ۋىلايەتى) or Khorezm Region as it is still more commonly known, is a viloyat (region) of Uzbekistan located in the northwest of the country in the lower reaches of the Amu-Darya River. It borders with Turkmenistan, Karakalpakstan, and Bukhara Region. It covers an area of . The population is estimated to be around 1,776,700, with some 80% living in rural areas.\n\nKhorezm Region is divided into 10 administrative districts. The capital is Urgench (pop est 135,000). Other major towns include Xonqa, Khiva, Shovot, and Pitnak.\n\nThe climate is a typically arid continental climate, with cold winters and extremely hot, dry summers.\n\nThe city of Khiva in Khorezm Region is a UNESCO World Heritage Site with world-famous architectural monuments, making Khiva one of the main centers for international tourism in the country.\n\nThe economy of Khorezm Region is primarily based on cotton. Cotton is by far the main crop, although rice production has increased significantly in the last several years. (though the Uzbek government discourages rice production near to deserts, over water usage concerns) There are also many orchards and vineyards, melon and gourd plantations and potato fields. Khorezm Region is famous for its \"gurvak\" melon in Uzbekistan. \nIndustry is also heavily oriented to cotton, with cotton refining, cottonseed oil extraction and textiles predominating. Khorezm is a place where many famous scholars were born, such as Abu Rayhan Biruni and al-Khwārizmī. The region has a well-developed transportation infrastructure, with over 130 km of railways and 2000 km of surfaced roads. The region is connected by rail to European Russia and the Caucasus.\n\n"}
{"id": "2190240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190240", "title": "Kirk Bryan (geologist)", "text": "Kirk Bryan (geologist)\n\nKirk Bryan (22 July 1888 in Albuquerque, New Mexico – 22 August 1950 in Cody, Wyoming) was an American geologist on the faculty of Harvard University from 1925 until his death in 1950.\n\nThe son of R.W.D. Bryan (Astronomer under Hall in the Polaris expedition), Bryan received his undergraduate education at the University of New Mexico and later obtained a Ph.D. from Yale University.\n\nA geomorphologist, he worked primarily in arid regions, and was one of the pioneers in explaining the forces that formed landmasses in those areas. \n\nAccording to Luna Leopold, one of his students, Bryan was influential as a teacher. In 2004, Leopold wrote:\n\nHis students made important advances in a variety of subjects, including alluvial chronology, periglacial and glacial geology, wind action, soil and vegetative effects on landscape development, and archaeology. His influence is indicated by the fact that of the four geologists who have received the National Medal of Science, three were students of Kirk Bryan.\nThe Geological Society of America's Kirk Bryan Award is named in his honour. It is awarded annually in recognition of a publication of distinction advancing the science of geomorphology or Quaternary geology, which were Bryan's areas of specialization.\n\nBryan was a prolific writer. This is a partial list of his scientific contributions:\n"}
{"id": "2190242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190242", "title": "Rhett Lawrence", "text": "Rhett Lawrence\n\nRhett Lawrence is an American record producer and songwriter. He has produced, mentored, and helped launch the career of 5 of the top 200 artists of all time who have sold over 350,000,000 records worldwide. He has worked with 30 of the top 500 artists of all time who have sold over 2.2 billion records worldwide. Many of these artists are also in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.\n\nHe is originally famous for producing the Grammy Award–winning, \"Billboard\" No. 1 single \"Vision of Love\" for Mariah Carey. \"Vision of Love\" was No. 1 simultaneously on 3 \"Billboard\" charts: \"Billboard\" Hot 100 (for 4 weeks), Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs (for 2 weeks), Hot Adult Contemporary Tracks (for 3 weeks).\n\nHe produced and co-wrote Kelly Clarkson's first single following her \"American Idol\" victory... The pop rock hit, \"Miss Independent\", was No. 1 for 6 weeks at Top 40 Radio and received a Grammy Award nomination for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance. Lawrence's second collaboration with Clarkson led to the creation of a new anthem for Ford Motor Company titled \"Go\". The song was introduced first during \"American Idol\" and was inspired by Lawrence's love for Ford's anniversary re-issue of the GT40 Lemans race car, the Ford GT. \"Go\" became Ford's theme song for television and radio advertising in North and South America for one year, and led to Ford sponsoring Clarkson's tour for two years. Ford and Clarkson gave away a Ford Mustang or Ford Fusion to a lucky audience member at each concert.\nHe produced and co-wrote the \"Billboard\" No. 2 Rap single “Request + Line” for The Black Eyed Peas featuring Macy Gray, which gave them their first top 40 hit in many countries worldwide. Lawrence's belief in will.i.am's talent and potential led to a mentoring friendship which lasted many years and led to great success. He produced and co-wrote the No. 1 UK hit single \"Never Be The Same Again\" with Melanie C. of The Spice Girls and Lisa \"Left Eye\" Lopes of TLC, which was No. 1 in 35 countries. He wrote the No. 1 single \"Angel of Mine\" recorded by Monica and Eternal and co-wrote the No. 1 UK song “I Wanna Be the Only One” for Eternal featuring BeBe Winans.\n\nIn addition, he has produced and written songs for and with the likes of Whitney Houston, Rock and Roll Hall of Fame inductees Earth Wind and Fire, Little Richard, Philip Bailey, Gladys Knight, Jon Anderson (Yes), Anderson Bruford Wakeman Howe, pop artists Enrique Iglesias, Selena, Paula Abdul with Ofra Haza, Hilary Duff, Jessica Simpson, 98 Degrees, Victoria Beckham, Emma Bunton (The Spice Girls), Carola Häggkvist (Eurovision winner from Sweden), June Pointer of the legendary pop/R&B group The Pointer Sisters, and gospel greats BeBe & CeCe Winans, Kirk Franklin, the Andrae and Sandra Crouch Choir, and Crystal Lewis.\n\nPrior to becoming a producer, Lawrence was a first-call programmer, arranger and studio musician in Los Angeles and New York. Some of the artists he worked with during this period include: Rock and Roll Hall of Famers Michael Jackson (\"Bad\" and \"Dangerous\" albums), Van Halen, Crosby Stills Nash and Young, Stevie Wonder, Gladys Knight, Anderson Bruford Wakeman Howe (Yes), Earth Wind and Fire, Neil Diamond, Chicago (\"Will You Still Love Me\"), and Quincy Jones (2 solo albums, Jackson, and Barbra Streisand), rock artists Billy Preston, Boz Scaggs and Roger Hodgson (Supertramp), pop artists Richard Marx, Belinda Carlisle (\"Heaven is a Place On Earth\"), easy listening artists Julio Iglesias, and David Foster, jazz artists Larry Carlton, George Benson and Earl Klugh, funk artists The Gap Band and The Dazz Band, and gospel artists Phil Keaggy and Andrae Crouch. He also programmed the distinctive drum loop (with Maurice Gibb & Scott Glasel) for the Bee Gees 1987 No.1 hit \"You Win Again (Bee Gees song)\" which sold over 3 million copies worldwide, while working on multiple projects with them and the late Arif Mardin. Later Mardin, as a friend, mentored Lawrence as he was preparing to record Kelly Clarkson's vocals: teaching and revealing unusual vocal-recording and mixing secrets developed by Mardin and the late Tom Dowd during the early Aretha Franklin/Fame Studios/Muscle Shoals Sound Studio sessions\n\nIn addition to the use of synthesizers, Lawrence pioneered the use of computers and sampling on albums and was the first studio musician in Los Angeles to own and use the Fairlight CMI (computer music instrument). Always eager to embrace new technology, he was an early advisor to Digidesign (later Avid Technology) and would later become the first producer to mix an album using Pro Tools, alongside legendary mixer Dave Pensado. The emergence of this new digital platform helped forge a lasting creative partnership as Lawrence and Pensado would team up through the years, exchanging ideas and becoming the best of friends. Video - Rhett Lawrence and Dave Pensado talk about their collaborations in the recording studio over the years: mixing with Pro Tools, projects such as Kelly Clarkson's and the impact of \"American Idol\". (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8FjQkRE8wp8)\n\nLawrence also owns and records with a large collection of vintage guitars and recording equipment including Jimi Hendrix's first Marshall amplifier which was given to Hendrix by Kit Lambert, manager of The Who during the 1960s, after its guitarist and original owner, Pete Townshend, had switched amplifier companies.\n\n"}
{"id": "2190244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190244", "title": "Made in Sheffield", "text": "Made in Sheffield\n\nMade in Sheffield is a documentary film on the history of the music scene in the city of Sheffield, England from 1975 until 1983. The film was directed and produced by Eve Wood in 2001. It features bands such as The Human League, Cabaret Voltaire, Clock DVA, Pulp (who would not find success until 1994), ABC, and Heaven 17.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2190248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190248", "title": "Bojan Bazelli", "text": "Bojan Bazelli\n\nBojan Bazelli, (born 15 August 1957) is a Montenegrin cinematographer and director of film, commercials, and music videos. His credits include collaborations with filmmakers like Abel Ferrara, Gore Verbinski, Doug Liman, Paul Schrader, Adam Shankman, and Michael Bay.\n\nBazelli studied at Film and TV School of the Academy of Performing Arts in Prague in Prague. Impressed with one of Bazelli’s student films, director Abel Ferrara hired Bazelli to shoot \"China Girl\" in New York City. He subsequently filmed \"King of New York\" and \"Body Snatchers\" with Ferrara as well.\n\nBazelli received an Independent Spirit Awards in 1990 for his work on \"King of New York\". He was honored for Best Cinematography in both 1996 and 1998 at the American Independent Commercial Producers (AICP), one of the few cinematographers to have received this honor twice. Bazelli also received a Clio Award for Best Cinematography in 1998, and the film \"Kalifornia\" was awarded Best Cinematography at the Montreal World Film Festival.\n"}
{"id": "2190258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190258", "title": "Shoulder angel", "text": "Shoulder angel\n\nA shoulder angel is a plot device used for dramatic and/or humorous effect in fiction, mainly in animation and comic books/strips. The angel represents conscience and is often accompanied by a shoulder devil representing temptation. They are a useful convention for depicting the inner conflict of a character.\n\nThe shoulder angel often uses the iconography of a traditional angel, with wings, a robe, a halo, and sometimes a harp. The shoulder devil likewise usually looks like a traditional devil with reddish skin, horns, barbed tail, a pitchfork or, more precisely, a trident and in some cases, cloven hooves. Often, both resemble their host, though sometimes they will resemble other characters in the story who are responsible or mischievous. In Western culture the idea develops the Christian concept of a personal guardian angel, who was sometimes considered to be matched by a personal devil who countered the angel's efforts, especially in popular medieval dramas like the 15th century \"The Castle of Perseverance\". In both this and Christopher Marlowe's play \"The Tragical History of Doctor Faustus\", of about 1592, the \"Good Angel\" and \"Bad Angel\" offer competing advice (Act 2, scene 1, etc.) to the hero.\n\nThe non-canonical early Christian book, \"The Shepherd of Hermas\", of around A.D. 140–150, has a reference to the idea of two angels: \"There are two angels with a man—one of righteousness, and the other of iniquity\". These angels in turn descend into a person's heart, and attempt to guide a person's emotions. Hermas is told to understand both angels, but to only trust the Angel of Righteousness. The concept is similar to ideas of personal tutelary spirits that are very common in many ancient and traditional cultures.\n\nIn some Christian folklore, each person has a dedicated guardian angel whose task is to follow the person and try to prevent them from coming to harm, both physical and moral. At the same time each person is assailed by devils, not usually considered as single and dedicated to a single person in the same way as the guardian angel, who try to tempt the person into sin. Both angels and devils are often regarded as having the ability to access the person's thoughts, and introduce ideas.\n\nThere is a similar Islamic belief of Kiraman Katibin, two angels residing on either shoulder of humans which record their good and bad deeds. However, these angels do not have influence over the choices one makes, and only record one's deeds. However, there is a concept much similar to the shoulder angel and devil: the qareen, which, according to Islamic literature, is a personal companion, and there are two with each individual, one from the angels and another from the jinn. The word \"qarīn\" literally means 'constant companion'. The angel pushes the individual to do good and obey God while that from the jinn does the opposite.\n\nIn Japanese Buddhism, the Kushoujin are a pair of beings – Domyo, meaning \"same name\" and Dosho, meaning \"same birth\" – which sit on a person's shoulders, observing and reporting all his deeds. Domyo records good deeds, but Dosho reports bad ones.\n\nIn several modern fictional stories, a character can be marked as especially evil or mischievous by receiving similarly bad advice from both shoulder figures, having a second shoulder devil instead of the angel, or being persuaded by the devil to kick the angel out.\n\nOne may view this image in Freudian terms, with the Angel representing the Super-ego (the source of self-censorship), counterbalanced by the Devil representing the Id (the primal, instinctive desires of the individual), which leaves the individual in question as the Ego.\n\nThe Disney animated film \"The Emperor's New Groove\", its sequel \"Kronk's New Groove\", and the animated series \"The Emperor's New School\" feature the concept of shoulder angels and devils, most notably in the character of Kronk. His appear at various points of moral crisis in the franchise for Kronk, but often spend more time antagonizing each other than actually trying to take Kronk down one path or another. The Oscar-winning Disney short \"Lend a Paw\" also featured Pluto being influenced by a shoulder angel and devil. In \"Mickey Mouse Clubhouse\", a Disney animated series aimed at preschoolers, Pete has similar manifestations—though simply colored white and red rather than depicted with wings and a halo/horns and a pitchfork, respectively.\n\nThe film \"Cloud Atlas\" is an example of utilizing a shoulder angel plot device in feature film, in which the character played by Hugo Weaving whispers bad and good advice to the character played by Tom Hanks. Old Georgie (Hugo Weaving) appears only in critical points of the story, where Zachry's mind (Tom Hanks) is split between right and wrong choices.\n\nBYUtv's sketch comedy series \"Studio C\" makes use of the concept in several sketches, with the physical comedy aspect of the angel or devil-a full-sized being played by an actor-having to physically climb up onto the shoulder of the one they are attempting to influence for good or evil.\n\nIt is speculated that the two main protagonists of Neil Gaiman and Terry Pratchett's \"Good Omens\" are supposed to represent the angel and demon on your shoulder as the Demon Anthony J. Crowley tempts people into sin/ baser nature while his counter figure the Angel Aziraphale encourages people to do good and rise above their baser instincts, however neither forces people into following their examples allowing free will to be exercised unimpeded.\n\nIn \"The Simpsons\" episode \"Whacking Day\", Homer presents the concept that everyone has a good and a bad self to Lisa. A fantasy sequence set in Homer's imagination then begins, showing Homer's bad self, visually depicted as Homer in a devil costume, dancing on the grave of the good Homer while singing 'I am Evil Homer, I am Evil Homer', implying that within him the battle for good and evil has long ago been won by his bad angel.\n\nIn the Discworld novel \"Nightwatch\" by Terry Pratchett the killer Carcer was considered by the hero Samuel Vimes to have a demon on each shoulder rather than an angel and a demon, but not opposing each other, just in competition to urge Carcer on to worse deeds. It was said that if Vimes looked deep into Carcer's eyes, he could see the demons looking back.\n\n\"The Adventures of Tintin\" comics used this concept in at least two stories. In \"The Red Sea Sharks\", Captain Haddock's good and bad angels try to convince him to drink a bottle of whisky. The bad one is able to convince him, but the bottle smashes before he is able to drink it, leaving the good angel victorious. In \"Tintin in Tibet\", Snowy is tempted by his demon to lap up Captain Haddock's whiskey leaking from his rucksack or enjoy a huge bone rather than deliver a vital message. His good angel loses the argument, leaving in tears, and he gnaws the bone while the message blows away. Realizing his mistake, Snowy makes amends by reaching a local monastery and brings the monks to help.\nIn both examples, the angels resemble good or bad versions of their subject, with horns and angel wings.\n\nSluggy Freelance comics has made use of this theme, with all three of the main characters: Riff, Torg and Zoe, who have been shown debating with their shoulder angels and demons. Despite being good and bad they both still reflect aspects of their owner - both Riff's are unwilling to commit to a course of action saying 'don't know' when asked for guidance. Torg's angel and demon are both childish while Zoe has her bad demon dressed in revealing outfit, while her good one wishes she could dress in the same fashion.\n\n\"Angel on My Shoulder\" is a 1946 American fantasy film about a deal between the Devil and a dead man.\n\n"}
{"id": "2190266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190266", "title": "Anchored Cross", "text": "Anchored Cross\n\nThe anchored cross, or mariner's cross, is a stylized cross in the shape of an anchor. It is a symbol which is shaped like a plus sign with anchor-like protrusions at the end of each arm, hence the name. The symbol can be used to signify 'fresh start' or 'hope', as in \"The Bible\", Hebrews 6.19: \"Which hope we have as an anchor of the soul, both sure and stedfast, and which entereth into that within the veil\".\n\nThe mariner's cross is also referred to as St. Clement's Cross in reference to the way he was martyred.\n\n"}
{"id": "2190272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190272", "title": "Julie Gold", "text": "Julie Gold\n\nJulie Gold (born February 3, 1956) is an American singer-songwriter. She is best known for her musical composition \"From a Distance,\" which became a hit for Bette Midler and won a Grammy Award for Song of the Year in 1991.\n\n\"From a Distance\" has millions of airplays. It has been recited into the Congressional Record by Senator Barbara Boxer, recorded internationally and translated into many languages. It has been illustrated as a children's book and machined into music boxes. It has been quoted in books, calendars, greeting cards and the wake-up call for astronauts in the Mir space station the first time Americans worked with Russians in space. A wide range of recording artists have covered it, including Jewel, Elaine Paige, Cliff Richard, the African Children's Choir, Judy Collins, the Byrds, Fairport Convention and Donna Summer.\n\nNanci Griffith, the first to record \"From a Distance\", has also recorded Gold's songs \"Heaven\", \"Southbound Train\", \"Good Night New York\" and \"Mountain of Sorrow\". Other artists who performed Gold's songs include Patti LaBelle, Patti LuPone, Lea Salonga, and Andrea Marcovicci. Her song \"Thanks to You\" was featured in the 1993 film \"Andre\", and \"Dream Loud\" was featured in the 2002 film \"Unfaithful\".\n\nGold was born in Havertown, Pennsylvania and later moved to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. She graduated from the Philadelphia High School for Girls in 1974 and from Temple University in 1978. She appeared as a featured performer in many Philadelphia area coffee houses and entertainment venues, including the Main Point and Bijou Cafe. From 1990 to 1994, she was a member of Four Bitchin' Babes, with Christine Lavin, Megon McDonough and Sally Fingerett.\n\nGold's maternal grandparents and mother were Jewish immigrants from Russia in the 1930s. Her paternal Jewish grandparents came from Romania. Her Orthodox mother and Conservative father were a founding couple in Philadelphia's Reform Temple Beth Elohim. Her Jewish background has influenced her songs.\n\n"}
{"id": "2190278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190278", "title": "Don Ienner", "text": "Don Ienner\n\nDon Ienner ( ) was the Chairman of the Sony Music Label Group during first half of the decade of the 1990s. He worked closely with his predecessor Tommy Mottola and was partially responsible for the breakthrough of Mariah Carey.\n\nHe resigned from that position on June 1, 2006.\n\nDon Ienner and his brother Jimmy Ienner founded a music production company C.A.M. U.S.A., which operated from 1972-1977.\n\nAccording to former executive of Columbia and current businessman Steve Stoute, Ienner made a series of racially based business decisions that resulted in Columbia Records dropping Alicia Keys due to how her manager dressed, dropping 50 Cent after he had gotten shot, and backing out of a deal that Stoute had set up with Birdman, formerly known as Baby, in which Birdman had unprecedently presented the label with 6 albums, and full music videos shot independently. According to Stoute, Ienner stated when referring to Birdman's partner and brother, Ronald \"Slim\" Williams, \"Shouldn't that guy be playing basketball?\" Implying that Williams shouldn't be responsible for setting up and being party to major contracts with Columbia Records.\n\nhttp://www.billboardbulletin.com/bbbiz/content_display/industry/e3if42f3145e3efa9c472ed4b0e2b7b7a21\n"}
{"id": "2190281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190281", "title": "Exposure (magic)", "text": "Exposure (magic)\n\nExposure in magic refers to the practice of revealing the methods of magic tricks. \n\nThe practice is generally frowned upon amongst magicians, who believe that it ruins the experience of magical performances for audiences.\n\nExposure is uniquely impactful to magicians, as magic relies heavily on the elusive nature of secrets and methods in order to create mystery.\n\nMagic effects have been exposed by both professional and amateur magicians. Some magic effects have been exposed in stage shows, and in other public media including television, the Internet, certain video sharing interfaces, discussion forums, and blogs.\n\nOne notable case of exposure on network television involved Val Valentino, performing as the \"Masked Magician\" in the Fox series \"\", which ran between 1997 and 1998. Valentino was ostracized by the magic community and received much criticism from magicians for contravening the joint International Brotherhood of Magicians and Society of American Magicians ethics statement. \n\nPenn & Teller have often exposed their own tricks for the purposes of entertainment. Penn Jillette has stated that while the duo show the audience how a trick is done, it is often done so quickly or with different mechanics that the audience is unable to follow. This highlights the need to distinguish \"apparent\" exposures performed by magicians during an act, which invariably turn out to be illusions in their own right.\n\n"}
{"id": "2190291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190291", "title": "Sigismund Payne Best", "text": "Sigismund Payne Best\n\nCaptain Sigismund Payne Best OBE (14 April 1885 – 21 September 1978) was a British Secret Intelligence Service agent during the First and Second World Wars. He was captured by German Gestapo and \"Sicherheitsdienst\" (SD) men on 9 November 1939 in the \"Venlo Incident\".\n\nBorn in Cheltenham, Gloucestershire, and raised at 26, Strawberry Hill Road, Twickenham, Middlesex, Best was the son of Downing College, Cambridge (B.A. 1871, M.B. 1878) and St George's Hospital-educated physician George Payne Best (1844-1907), M.R.C.S., and his wife Catherine Sophia (née Allison). His paternal grandmother was the daughter of an Indian maharajah and a British woman; this was kept a closely guarded family secret. After studying science in London, Best worked as a businessman. In 1908, he went to study violin at the Music Academy of Lausanne. He then studied economics and musicology at the University of Munich, graduating in both in 1913. In Munich, he acquired an excellent knowledge of the German language. Back in England, he went as a volunteer into the army. His first wife, Dorothy Stallwood Adams, died in 1918.\n\nBest served as a Captain in the First World War; first as a member of the Intelligence Corps- owing partially to his poor eyesight and his command of French, German and Flemish- and later as the second officer of the GHQ's Wallinger London bureau. In 1917, Major Ernest Wallinger sent him to Rotterdam, Netherlands to handle and set up intelligence networks in German-occupied Belgium. The Wallinger service was linked to several Belgian resistance groups. A well-known recruit of Wallinger was the Belgian resistance heroine Gabrielle Petit. In Rotterdam, Best came into conflict with Richard Tinsley, local station chief of MI6. In November 1917, he was recalled to London after he was caught sleeping with the wife of an influential Belgian resistance leader. He was replaced by Lieutenant Ivone Kirkpatrick. Best later accused Tinsley of scheming against him. \n\nCaptain Best was appointed Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) and awarded the Belgian Croix de Guerre.\n\nAfter his demobilisation in 1919, Best returned to the Netherlands, where he and his partner in business and intelligence, P.N. van der Willik, set up a British firm, called the Continental Trade Service, also called Pharmisan, a trading company, mainly in pharmaceutical products, and a consultancy agency for British businessmen.\n\nLiving in a prime residential location in The Hague, he was known as a serious British businessman. Best's cover was a thin one. Although he was married to a Dutch wife, his tall figure, spats and monocle made him, in the eyes of many Dutchmen, the embodiment of a British spy. At times he would think it safe to confide that this presumption was wholly justified.\n\nFrom 1938, he was a member of Haag'schen Golf Club and had good relations with the Dutch royal family. On Friday afternoons he regularly played music with his 'neighbors' Prince Hendrik, Duke of Mecklenburg-Schwerin and husband of Queen Wilhelmina. His wife, whom he called \"May\", was a relatively well known artist, and portrayed Queen Wilhelmina. In December 1938, he undertook with his wife May and his foster son Enzo Bonopera an extended trip to Germany, Switzerland and France.\n\nWith war looming in 1938, Best was recruited into Claude Dansey's ‘Z’ organization, a new branch of the SIS. Best already knew Dansey, having served with him in the Netherlands in 1917. The Hague was an important place in the Z-network, Dansey having established the regional headquarters of his network in the two neutral countries where he had worked during the First World War: Netherlands and Switzerland.\n\nBest's operations in the Netherlands stood at the crosswinds of a political storm. He had, on the orders of London but against all trade craft, combined his NOC operations with those of Major Richard Henry Stevens, a less-experienced operative who operated from the British Embassy as the head of a notional \"Passport Control Office\". The PCO (which, like Section Z, operated throughout Europe) was compromised before its operations were combined with those of Section Z, and thus it was a simple matter for the Germans to mount sting and counterintelligence operations against British agents throughout Europe.\n\nA young Nazi lawyer, Walter Schellenberg, joined the SS in 1933. He met Reinhard Heydrich and went to work in the counter-intelligence department of the \"Sicherheitsdienst\" (SD). From 1939 to 1942, he was \"Reichsführer-SS\" Heinrich Himmler's personal aide and a deputy chief in the Reich Main Security Office under Heydrich who answered only to Himmler. In that capacity, he played a major role in a 1939 false flag operation against Stevens and Best.\n\nBest, Stevens and Dutch Lieutenant Dirk Klop (pretending, for neutrality's sake, to be a British national) began a series of meetings, which, despite the Britons' misgivings about Fischer and his putative friends (who were in fact SD agents), culminated in what pretended to be an agreement to form, post-Hitler, a united German-British front against the Soviet Union. The agreement included a period in which Adolf Hitler would be kept as a figurehead, then a restoration of democracy and legal protection for Jewish citizens.\n\nIn London, Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain, having seen Hitler violate the Munich agreement by seizing Czechoslovakia, was more than ready to foment a German coup. However, Best's suspicions that their German contacts might be double agents had been passed up the intelligence chain and the operatives were warned to stay away from the German border. In Britain, the top secret talks were seen by many — including the new First Sea Lord of the Admiralty, Winston Churchill — as another Munich.\n\nIn any case, not only were the talks a complicated German bluff, but the entire operation was brought to an abrupt end. Himmler had decided, over Schellenberg's objections, to have the British operatives abducted; the attempt by Georg Elser to assassinate Hitler at the Bürgerbräukeller, believed by Himmler to be the result of British machinations, forced the matter. The next day, in a daring and violent abduction, Best and Stevens were kidnapped from the Café Backus on the outskirts of Venlo — Klop was fatally wounded in the shootout with German agents — and rushed to Berlin. Under interrogation, Best and Stevens gave up detailed information on British espionage activities. Worse, Stevens was carrying on him a plain text list of SIS agents in Europe.\n\nBest was imprisoned in Sachsenhausen between 1940 and 1945, and for a few months of 1945, in the Dachau concentration camp. Fluent in German and having the protection of the Gestapo, he was able to make life in Sachsenhausen as palatable as he could, collecting a good wardrobe of clothes, a library of books and a radio to keep himself informed with the progress of the war.\n\nDuring his imprisonment, he came into contact with a number of famous figures, including not only Elser, but also the famed theologian Dietrich Bonhoeffer, whose last message he relayed to Bonhoeffer's friend, Bishop George Bell. Bell and Bonhoeffer's efforts to interest the British government in supporting German anti-Nazi forces failed in large part because of Churchill's distaste for Chamberlain's actions and the fear of another Venlo Incident. In late April 1945, Best was on the transport to Tyrol where he was liberated by regular German troops under the Command of Wichard von Alvensleben\n\nAfter the war, Best ran an import-export business in The Hague dealing in Humber bicycles. In 1953, his marriage to May ended. After marrying his third wife, Bridget, they moved to Calne, Wiltshire, England.\n\nIn 1950, with permission from Stewart Graham Menzies, head of SIS ('C'), Best published his memoirs under the title \"The Venlo Incident\" that became a bestseller. He died in 1978, aged 93, in Calne. His ashes were scattered in the Garden of Remembrance of the crematorium in Swindon.\n\n"}
{"id": "2190302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190302", "title": "Rhys Jones (archaeologist)", "text": "Rhys Jones (archaeologist)\n\nRhys Maengwyn Jones (26 February 1941 – 19 September 2001) was a Welsh-Australian archeologist.\n\nJones was born in Blaenau Ffestiniog, Wales and educated at Whitchurch Grammar School, Cardiff. He was an undergraduate at Emmanuel College, Cambridge where Graham Clarke, Eric Higgs and Charles McBurney were his instructors in archaeology. He spoke Welsh fluently. \n\nHe arrived in Australia in 1963 to take up a teaching position at the University of Sydney, where he later completed his PhD on Tasmanian Aboriginal archaeology. In 1969 he moved on to the Australian National University where he spent the rest of his career. He was an Honorary Professor of the University of Wales, Newport, and a Fellow of the University of Wales, Lampeter. For one year, he was Australian Visiting Professor at Harvard University.\n\nHe was married to fellow archaeologist Betty Meehan, with whom he travelled to Arnhem Land in the 1970s to live alongside and observe the Anbarra people.\nHe was a key figure in dating the arrival of Aboriginal Australians, first with radiocarbon dating and later with luminescence techniques, and, more generally, in the study of the archeology of Indigenous Australians.\n\nHe was credited with naming the Aboriginal practice of \"cultural burning\" as fire-stick farming.\n\nIn the 2002 Queen's Birthday Honours Jones was made an Officer of the Order of Australia for \"service to archaeology, particularly in the areas of research and teaching, and as a leader in matters relating to world heritage, conservation and indigenous social justice issues\".\n\nThe Australian Archaeological Association established the Rhys Jones Medal in 2002, to honour Jones. Awarded annually, it is the highest award offered by the Australian Archaeological Association. Notable winners have been John Mulvaney, Isabel McBryde, Harry Lourandos, Mike Smith, and Sharon Sullivan.\n"}
{"id": "2190308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190308", "title": "Bob Whitsitt", "text": "Bob Whitsitt\n\nBob Whitsitt is a former sports executive in both the National Basketball Association (NBA) and the National Football League (NFL). He has served as the general manager (or in an equivalent role) for three teams: the Seattle SuperSonics and Portland Trail Blazers of the NBA, and the Seattle Seahawks of the NFL. Whitsitt, commonly known as \"Trader Bob\" for his penchant for making blockbuster deals, has met with mixed success in both leagues.\n\nHe was hailed as the architect of the 1995-1996 Sonics team that went to the NBA Finals (and lost to the Chicago Bulls); several years before that Whitsitt shocked many observers by drafting Shawn Kemp, a promising player who had never played a game of college ball. At the end of the 1993–94 NBA season, he was awarded the NBA Executive of the Year Award after the SuperSonics went from 55–27 (and third in the Western Conference) the previous season to a 63-19 record and the number 1 seed in the Western Conference. However, after a falling-out with then Sonics owner Barry Ackerley, Whitsitt resigned his position with the Sonics in 1994 and took an equivalent job with the Portland Trail Blazers, owned by Paul Allen. In the eight seasons he was the general manager of the SuperSonics, the team had a total record of 377–279.\n\nDuring the first two years of his tenure, Whitsitt oversaw an aging roster that had been to the Finals earlier in the decade, but needed serious retooling.\n\nIn the 1996 off-season, Whitsitt began to make his mark with several moves. He traded for guard Isaiah Rider and forward Rasheed Wallace, and signed guard Kenny Anderson to a free agent contract. He also drafted high-school player Jermaine O'Neal in the draft. These moves made the Blazers a better team in the short run (in 1999 and 2000 the Blazers advanced to the Western Conference finals), but criminal activity of some players Whitsitt acquired began to grate on the Portland fan base; many started to refer to the team as the \"Jail Blazers\".\n\nWhitsitt's reputation started to turn sour after the 2000 season, when the team executed several controversial moves. Popular player Brian Grant opted out of the final three years of his contract and was traded away in exchange for Shawn Kemp; and center-forward Jermaine O'Neal was traded for Dale Davis. Both players were unhappy with their roles and asked to be traded. These moves were made to push the team \"over the hump\" (the Blazers went to the Western Conference finals), but they backfired spectacularly—Kemp struggled with both on and off-court issues before being waived by the Blazers prior to the 2002-03 season, while O'Neal went on to become an All-Star for the Indiana Pacers. In addition, Whitsitt further alienated the Portland fan base by acquiring Seattle forward Ruben Patterson, a convicted sex offender, via free agency.\n\nEven before the disastrous 2000 off-season, many questioned Whitsitt's evaluation of basketball talent. For one thing, Whitsitt never shied away from players with checkered pasts; this often upset fans; it was also alleged that such players—while talented—lacked the emotional maturity necessary to be a \"winner\". For another thing, Whitsitt was accused of not paying attention to team \"chemistry\", or how the various players might interact on the floor (or in the locker room). Whitsitt himself was famously quoted as saying that he \"never studied chemistry in college\". The result of this, it is claimed, are teams that make inefficient use of the talents available; or which are \"less than the sum of their parts\". Whitsitt has also been criticized for attempting to stock teams with \"All-Star\" caliber players (including for bench roles), leading to conflicts over playing time and reduced team camaraderie.\n\nMany other players acquired by Whitsitt have had significant off-court or legal issues (either with the Blazers or elsewhere); these include:\n\n\nAfter the 2003 season, Whitsitt resigned his position with the Trail Blazers and was replaced with Steve Patterson as the team president and John Nash as the general manager. In his 9 seasons, the Trail Blazers had gone 426-280 with postseason appearances in every season and one division title, but after two straight seasons of losing in the Conference Finals they failed to get past the first round in the following three seasons as GM, with the team falling to 10th place in the conference the season after his resignation.\n\nSeveral years after hiring Whitsitt to run the Trail Blazers; Paul Allen gave him a second role as president of the Seattle Seahawks in 1997. Whitsitt is a self-proclaimed \"basketball guy\", being more knowledgeable about basketball than about football; for this reason his role with the Seahawks was primarily involved with business management. Decisions on players were generally left to others, until after his resignation in 2003 as GM of the Trail Blazers, when he installed himself as the ultimate decision maker of personnel in the Seahawks organization. This caused much friction due to his poor decision making and basketball background making him poorly suited as an NFL GM, especially with coach Mike Holmgren over the possibility of letting Matt Hasselbeck leave the team for free agency. The powerplay is generally viewed as the catalyst that ultimately lead to his firing after the 2004 season.\n\nWhile president of the Seahawks, Whitsitt oversaw three major changes to the team. First, he helped negotiate the development of CenturyLink Field, the stadium the team plays its home games in (this facility replaced the aging Kingdome). Second, Whitsitt hired Mike Holmgren (formerly of the Green Bay Packers as coach of the Seahawks (and later as general manager), and third, the team moved from the American Football Conference (where it played from 1977-2001) back to the National Football Conference (where they played in their inaugural season of 1976) in 2002.\n\nIn 2004, Whitsitt was diagnosed with a growth on his colon (which was surgically removed); he made a full recovery.\n\nAfter the 2004-2005 season, in a move which has been widely praised by both the Portland and Seattle sports media, Whitsitt was suddenly (and unexpectedly) fired as president of the Seahawks after losing a power struggle with Holmgren; he was replaced in that position by Tim Ruskell. The move paid dividends, as the following year the Seahawks won the NFC championship, advancing to Super Bowl XL.\n\nWhitsitt and his wife now run a business consulting practice in the Seattle area.\n"}
{"id": "2190310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190310", "title": "It's All Gone Pete Tong", "text": "It's All Gone Pete Tong\n\nIt's All Gone Pete Tong is a 2004 British-Canadian mockumentary-drama film about a DJ (Paul Kaye) who goes completely deaf. The title uses a rhyming slang phrase used in Britain from the 1980s (Pete Tong = \"wrong\"), referring to the BBC Radio 1 DJ Pete Tong.\n\nIt won two awards at the US Comedy Arts Festival for Best Feature and Best Actor (Kaye) and swept the Gen Art Film Festival awards (Grand Jury and Audience). It was filmed on location in Ibiza and shot entirely in HD.\n\nIbiza locations used in the movie include the music venues Pacha, Amnesia, Privilege, DC10 and the historic Pike's Hotel and Cala Llonga beach.\n\nFrankie Wilde is a British music producer and a DJ based in Ibiza. After years of playing in night-clubs he loses his hearing, first apparent when he hears a high-pitched whine instead of an Arsenal football match on TV. At this time, Frankie is making his next album with his \"two Austrian mates\" Alfonse and Horst, who seem more suited for a rock band, but his hearing degrades rapidly and progress stagnates. Frankie refuses to acknowledge his problem until a gig in Amnesia, when he cannot hear the second channel in his headphones and must crossfade one song into the next without being able to beatmatch them. When the crowd boos him, he throws the turntable and the mixer onto the dance floor, and is forcibly removed from the club.\n\nFrankie agrees to see a doctor, who tells him he has lost hearing in one ear and has 20% left in the other. He warns Frankie that unless he stops abusing drugs and listening to loud noises, he will soon be completely deaf, and even the use of his hearing aid would only further degrade his hearing. During a recording session, Frankie confesses the full nature of his hearing loss to Alfonse. He inserts his hearing aid to demonstrate and, overwhelmed by the sudden sound exposure, leans close to one of the monitor speakers. Before he can react, a frustrated Horst smashes a guitar into an amplifier whose volume Frankie has maximized. The noise is excruciating and the feedback knocks Frankie unconscious. The damage leaves him permanently deaf.\n\nWithout his hearing, Frankie cannot complete his album. He loses his recording contract and his manager Max abandons him. Soon after, his wife Sonya leaves him. Frankie shuts himself into his home, which he has \"soundproofed\" with pillows in a desperate bid to recover his hearing, and his drug use intensifies. He sinks into a heavy depression, repeatedly throwing his body against the walls, and wrapping Roman candles around his head, either an attempt at suicide or a drastic way to recover his hearing, but dives into the pool before they ignite. Frankie flushes all his drugs down a toilet, but is tormented by a vision of a menacing badger, and when he fights and kills it, he learns that the badger is, in fact, himself.\n\nFrankie finds a deaf organization and meets Penelope, who coaches him in lip-reading. They become close, and eventually intimate. He confides his unhappiness at losing music, and she helps him perceive sound through visual and tactile methods instead. Frankie manages to devise a system for mixing songs, in which he watches an oscilloscope trace while resting his feet on the pulsating speakers. Using this system, he manages to produce a new mix CD (\"Hear No Evil\") entirely by himself. He delivers it to Max, who is wildly pleased – particularly by the potential of exploiting Frankie's disability to increase record sales. He has Frankie take part in promotions that are increasingly offensive and insensitive to deaf people, of which Penelope disapproves.\n\nMax convinces Frankie to play live at Pacha as a career comeback, despite Frankie's insistence that he has nothing to prove to his critics. The gig goes exceedingly well, and many claim it shows even greater talent than his early work. After the show, Frankie and Penelope disappear from Max and the music scene altogether. In a talking heads sequence, characters speculate on where he is now, if alive. As the film ends, we see Frankie disguised as a homeless street musician, who is met by Penelope and a child, presumably their own. They affectionately walk together down a street unrecognised. Additionally, we see Frankie teaching a group of deaf children how to perceive sound like he does.\n\n\nSeveral real world DJs appear in the film, leding the film a sense of authenticity, like Carl Cox, Fatboy Slim and Pete Tong himself, who also executive produced the film. Others include Tiësto, Sarah Main, Barry Ashworth, Paul van Dyk and Lol Hammond.\n\n\"Fubar\" rockers Paul Spence and David Lawrence, from Dowse's earlier film, also have cameos as Austrian hangers-on.\n\nThe film's soundtrack was released by EMI on 4 October 2005 as a double disc soundtrack for the film. The 'Night' & 'Day' concept for the soundtrack album was conceived and compiled by Ben Cherrill, who was, at the time, A&R manager for Positiva Records/EMI. Additional production and mixing was by James Doman.\n\n\n\nSongs used in film but not included in the soundtrack:\n\nThe film was premiered at the 2004 Toronto International Film Festival. It was released in the United States on 15 April 2005 and on 26 May in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe DVD was released on 20 September 2005. The U.S. version of the DVD includes 5.1 Dolby Digital, subtitles and several extras that were part of the online/web marketing campaign: \"Frankie Wilde: The Rise\", \"Frankie Wilde: The Fall\" and \"Frankie Wilde: The Redemption\".\n\nThe film made $2,226,603, a little under a quarter million above its $2 million budget.\n\nThe film has a rating of 76% based on 71 reviews on the review aggregator website \"Rotten Tomatoes\", the critical consensus stating, \"Part raucous mockumentary, part drama-filled biopic, \"It's All Gone Pete Tong\" amuses and warms hearts with its touching, comic, and candid look at a musician faced with a career-ending handicap.\" On \"Metacritic\", it has a score of 56 based on 22 reviews, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\".\n\nGiving the film three stars, Roger Ebert says the film works because of its \"heedless comic intensity\", chronicling the rise and fall of Frankie Wilde in the film's first two acts \"as other directors have dealt with emperors and kings\".Frankie may not be living the most significant life of our times, but tell that to Frankie. There is a kind of desperation in any club scene (as \"24-Hour Party People\" memorably demonstrated); it can be exhausting, having a good time, and the relentless pursuit of happiness becomes an effort to recapture remembered bliss from the past.\n\nMelissa Mohaupt writing in \"Exclaim!\" noted \"resemblances to various hipster films about music, drugs, excess and failure\" such as \"Trainspotting\", \"Boogie Nights\", yet it \"never feels stale\". There are plenty of quotable quips, and even Frankie's attempted suicide is \"high-larious\". She says the film manages to be \"uplifting without being preachy or cheesy. There are important life lessons to be learned here, or you could just ignore them and enjoy some clever comedy.\"\n\nKen Eisner of \"The Georgia Straight\" liked the film's \"zippy visual style, with sun-dappled primary colours and whirlwind editing to go with the hip pop tunes and block-rockin' beats\". He appreciated the fact that Dowse does not milk the many cameos, though the two \"Fubar\" actors may have been a bit much. Dennis Harvey, writing for \"Variety\", found those first two acts depressing and decidedly not as advertized (the film was hyped as another \"This is Spinal Tap\"), but Michael Dowse rescues the film with \"a particularly deft transitional montage that begins with Frankie discovering the musical properties of vibration... segues into lead duo's first lovemaking, and goes on as Frankie re-connects with the dance rhythms he’d thought were lost to him\".\n\nNick De Semlyen, writing for \"Empire\", gave the film two stars, noting there were powerful moments in the film, but thought it was \"too dark for casual viewers (or fans of Tong), too blunt to succeed as cult viewing\". \"The Guardian\"'s Peter Bradshaw gave the film one star, panning it as \"breathtakingly charmless and humourless\", writing that \"Paul Kaye gives a frazzled, one-note performance\", while the \"appearances by real-life DJs should tip you off that any satire involved is of an essentially celebratory and sycophantic sort; the comedy is leaden, the drama is flat and the attitude to deaf people is Neanderthal\".\n\n\n\nThe film was remade in Hindi by the Indian film director Neerav Ghosh, titled \"Soundtrack\" and was released in 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2190311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190311", "title": "Aholibah underwing", "text": "Aholibah underwing\n\nThe Aholibah underwing (\"Catocala aholibah\") is a moth of the \"owlet\" family Erebidae, which has over 25,000 known members, and more than that yet undescribed. Like other moths of the underwing genus (\"Catocala\"), this species has dull gray and black speckled forewings which help it blend into its surroundings, and bright orange underwings that it reveals to startle predators.\n\nThe adults are mature during the early summer, and are found in western North America from British Columbia south to Arizona.\n\nAn adult has a wingspan of up to 8 centimeters. The larva is a dark gray mottled caterpillar with thick pink-tinted legs and a jumping ability. The adults feed on nectar, sap, and rotting fruit, while the larvae prefer the foliage of several oak species.\n"}
{"id": "2190312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190312", "title": "Bear Mountain State Parkway", "text": "Bear Mountain State Parkway\n\nThe Bear Mountain State Parkway (also known as the Bear Mountain Parkway) is a parkway located in northern Westchester County, New York, in the United States. It is an incomplete highway, with a 3.85-mile (6.20 km) western section and a 0.73-mile (1.17 km) eastern section; both sections comprise New York State Route 987H (NY 987H), the unsigned reference route assigned to the road by the New York State Department of Transportation (NYSDOT). Crompond Road (U.S. Route 202 and NY 35) provides a connection between the two sections. Collectively, the parkway extends from an intersection with US 6, US 9, and US 202 southeast of the Bear Mountain Bridge to an interchange with the Taconic State Parkway in Yorktown.\n\nThe parkway was built in 1932 but, unlike most other parkways in Westchester County, it has barely been constructed upon since. The initial reason for the Bear Mountain Parkway was to connect the Taconic State Parkway (or then, the Bronx River Parkway Extension) to the Bear Mountain Bridge. The Tappan Zee Bridge became a more popular Hudson River crossing following its construction, and consequently, the Bear Mountain Parkway was never finished.\n\nThe parkway begins at an intersection with US 6, US 9 and US 202 south of Annsville Creek in Peekskill and proceeds eastward through the north side of Peekskill as a two-lane undivided roadway. During its first mile, the parkway intersects a street at-grade and connects to Highland Avenue by way of an interchange before widening to three divided lanes (two westbound, one eastbound) at an interchange with North Division Street. The parkway intersects another street at-grade prior to entering Cortlandt.\n\nIn Cortlandt, the parkway meets US 6 at an interchange and becomes a two lane undivided roadway again and meets several surface roads ahead of an intersection with US 202 and NY 35. Here, the Bear Mountain Parkway merges with the two-lane US 202 and NY 35, creating a physical but not official concurrency extending eastward into neighboring Yorktown. Roughly one mile from the town line, the parkway separates from US 202 and NY 35 and progresses to the northeast as a four-lane undivided roadway. After a short distance, the parkway becomes separated by a median prior to merging with the southbound Taconic State Parkway. The northbound Taconic Parkway is accessed by way of US 202 and NY 35.\n\nNY 987H, the internal NYSDOT designation for the parkway, terminates at both ends of the physical overlap with US 202 and NY 35 and applies only to the segments of the road separate from US 202 and NY 35. The parkway was designated but not signed as NY 821 prior to the creation of the current reference route system.\n\nOriginally proposed by Robert Moses, the Bear Mountain State Parkway was built between 1929 and 1932 by the Westchester County Parks Commission as part of the Bronx River Parkway's extension into northern Westchester County. It was intended to provide a quick, scenic trip from the Bronx to the Bear Mountain Bridge and Harriman State Park. In 1941, the Taconic State Park Commission assumed control of the Bronx River extension. The commission subsequently combined the north–south portion of the extension with the then-Eastern State Parkway to create the Taconic State Parkway. The east–west section of the extension between the Taconic Parkway and Annsville was renamed the Bear Mountain State Parkway.\n\nAt the time of the parkway's construction, the Bear Mountain Bridge was an extremely important crossing of the Hudson River for Westchester, Rockland, Putnam, and Orange County residents. The construction of the Tappan Zee Bridge and the traffic issues caused by the two-lane roads descending to the Bear Mountain Bridge have diminished the bridge's popularity since then, and consequently, the Bear Mountain Parkway was never finished.\n\nIn 2000, there was an initiative to complete the final missing piece of the Bear Mountain Parkway, since all of the right of way has already been acquired. However, this never came to fruition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2190342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190342", "title": "Cheryl Lynn", "text": "Cheryl Lynn\n\nCheryl Lynn (born Lynda Cheryl Smith; March 11, 1957) is an American singer. She is best known for her songs during the late 1970s through the mid-1980s, including the 1978 R&B/disco song \"Got to Be Real\". Lynn's singing career began with her church choir when she was a girl. Her professional singing career started in 1976 when she obtained a job as a backing vocalist for the national touring company of the musical drama \"The Wiz\". Eventually, she obtained the role of Evillene, the Wicked Witch of the West, during the six-month national tour. \n\nPrior to her appearance in \"The Wiz\", Lynn taped an episode of \"The Gong Show\" during early 1976. She scored a perfect 30 singing Joe Cocker's \"You Are So Beautiful\"; a previous act (a singing juggler) had also scored 30, and in the audience applause tie-break the juggler was deemed the winner. After the episode was broadcast, during the fall of 1976, record industry executives were interested in contracting her.\n\nAfter her performance on \"The Gong Show\", Ahmed Ertegun of Atlantic Records company couldn't come to an initial meeting with Lynn, with the result that she was contracted with Columbia Records company. She released her first and best-known song, \"Got to Be Real,\" which was composed by Lynn along with keyboardist David Paich (of the band Toto) and David Foster. The song scored #12 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 record chart and #1 on the Rhythm & Blues chart. The success of the single prompted a full-scale debut album. Entitled \"Cheryl Lynn\", it was produced by Paich. It sold more than a million copies and scored #5 on \"Billboard\" magazines R&B albums chart and #23 on \"Billboard\"s top 200 album charts. The next single from the album, written by Judy Wieder and John Footman, \"Star Love\", also became a top selling success. \n\nWieder and Footman joined songwriting forces with the artist for her second album, \"In Love\". The first single, \"I've Got Just What You Need\", was a moderate hit on the R&B charts. The follow-up single, \"Keep It Hot\", was a club hit. During this time, members of the rock music group Toto were producing their debut album. During the production Lynn was asked to provide the female backing vocal for one of the album's singles, \"Georgy Porgy\". The single scored #48 on \"Billboard\"'s popular music charts. Although Toto would go on to chart more than a dozen pop and rock songs throughout the years, Lynn's vocal was credited for the group's charting their only R&B (#18) and dance (#80) hit on the \"Billboard\" charts.\n\nIn 1981 Ray Parker Jr. was called in to produced Lynn's third album, \"In The Night\". It featured the major dance & R&B single, \"Shake It Up, Tonight\". The next year, Luther Vandross was asked to produce Lynn's fourth album, \"Instant Love\". The second single from the album, \"If This World Were Mine\", a 1982 duet with Luther Vandross that was a cover version of a previous Marvin Gaye and Tammi Terrell song, has become a classic. For her fifth album, \"Preppie\", Lynn produced most of the tracks, with the exception of the single \"Encore\" (#1 R&B), which was written and produced by the Minneapolis funk music duo, Jimmy Jam and Terry Lewis. It became Lynn's second #1 single.\n\nLynn also recorded soundtracks for a few feature films, including a song written by Michael Bolton entitled \"At Last You're Mine\" for the 1985 film \"Heavenly Bodies\", and the track \"Steppin' Into the Night\" for the 1986 feature film \"Armed and Dangerous\". The song and the film's soundtrack were produced by Maurice White.\n\nIn 1989, Lynn released the top 10 single \"Every Time I Try To Say Goodbye\", from her eighth album, \"Whatever It Takes\". \n\nShe began the 1990s without a record contract. She did mostly session work for Richard Marx albums, \"Rush Street\" and \"Paid Vacation\" as well as Luther Vandross' \"Your Secret Love\" album. During 1995, after a six-year hiatus from recording her own material, Lynn teamed with producer/songwriter Teddy Riley (formerly of the new jack swing music group Guy), to record her ninth album, \"Good Time\". It was released in Japan and the United Kingdom, and later in the United States as an imported CD. It featured the nightclub favorite single album \"Guarantee for My Heart\". In 1996, Sony Records/Legacy released \"Got to Be Real – The Best of Cheryl Lynn\", which included Lynn's most successful recordings from her years with Columbia Records. This was followed soon by another compilation CD, \"The Real Thing\", which featured other recordings from Lynn's first six albums. \n\nTwo years later she performed on HBO's \"Sinbad's Summer Soul Jam 4\" (1998), hosted by comedian Sinbad.\n\nDuring the new millennium Lynn toured Japan and did an occasional gig in the US, performing at charity events in her hometown of Los Angeles. In 2000 she worked with hip-hop musician Jay Supreme on his single \"Your Love (Encore)\", which was an update of her #1 1984 song \"Encore.\" She performed on ABC's \"The Disco Ball...A 30-Year Celebration\", broadcast during January 2003. In 2004 she recorded the song \"Sweet Kind of Life,\" which was also written and produced by Jam & Lewis, for the soundtrack to \"Shark Tale\". On September 19, 2005, Lynn's song \"Got to Be Real\" was inducted into the Dance Music Hall of Fame. On May 23, 2006 Collectables Record Label re-released her 1981 album \"In The Night\" and 1982's \"Instant Love\", in twin CD package form. It was the first time ever that either album was released as a CD in the US. \n\nLynn is considered an influence on some of today's R&B female singers, including Mary J. Blige, who, along with Will Smith, covered Lynn's song (\"Got to Be Real\"), also for the soundtrack of the animated movie \"Shark Tale\". Japanese popular music singer Kumi Koda covered the song for her July 2010 single album \"Gossip Candy\" as well. \n\nOn April 11, 2010, \"Got to Be Real\" charted for the first time in the UK, peaking at number 70.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2190345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190345", "title": "Jim Sonzero", "text": "Jim Sonzero\n\nJim Sonzero is a music video and film director. He co-directed Mariah Carey's \"Can't Let Go.\" His feature length directorial debut was \"Pulse\", a horror film starring Kristen Bell. He was the cutscene director for Killzone 3 and \"Resident Evil 5\".\n"}
{"id": "2190353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190353", "title": "Brian Alexander Morgan", "text": "Brian Alexander Morgan\n\nBrian Alexander Morgan is a record producer that was born and raised in Wichita, Kansas. He was discovered by Club Nouveau founding member Jay King, who got Morgan's group a recording contract with Warner Bros. Records in 1987. When his group's album failed to chart, they were dropped and Morgan was mentored by producer Robert Brookins.\n\nMorgan was also labelmates with singer Chanté Moore at Warner Bros., but her album never saw the light of day due to Jay King losing the production deal over the failure of the second Club Nouveau album. Morgan- who had feelings for Moore- penned the song \"Weak\", which later became a hit for R&B group SWV. He originally intended to use the song for Charlie Wilson.\n\nIn the early 1990s, Morgan wrote and produced songs for Lalah Hathaway, Martha Wash, and Usher, among others. Outside of R&B, Morgan also worked in house music in the mid 2000s. Around the early 2010s, he was summoned by DJ Khalil to work on a few projects with him. Khalil's desire to work with him caused Morgan to relocate from Sacramento back to Los Angeles. Due to the move, Khalil and Morgan worked on Aloe Blacc's major label debut \"Lift Your Spirit\".\n\n\"La Rue - There's Love Out There\" (1989)\n\n\"SWV - It's About Time\" (1992)\n\n\"Martha Wash - Martha Wash\" (1993)\n\n\"Lalah Hathaway - A Moment\" (1994)\n\n\"Usher - Usher\" (1994)\n\n\"SWV - New Beginning\" (1996)\n\n\"Somethin' for the People - Somethin' for the People\" (1996)\n\n\"SWV - Release Some Tension\" (1997)\n\n\"Nicole - Make It Hot\" (1998)\n\n\"Why Do Fools Fall In Love - Music Inspired by the Motion Picture\" (1998)\n\n\"Eric Benet - A Day in the Life\" (1999)\n\n\"Coko - Hot Coko\" (1999)\n\n\"Ann Nesby - Put it on Paper\" (2002)\n\n\"JoJo - JoJo\" (2004)\n\n\"Kobe Honeycutt - Ghetto Thrilla\" (2013)\n\n\"KRNDN - Everything's Nothing\" (2013)\n\n\"Faith Evans - Incomparable\" (2014)\n\n\"Tamar Braxton - Calling All Lovers\" (2015)\n\n\"Drake - Views\" (2016)\n\n\"Khalid - Suncity\"\n"}
{"id": "2190373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190373", "title": "Kirkby Mallory", "text": "Kirkby Mallory\n\nKirkby Mallory is a village in Leicestershire, England that is part of the civil parish of Peckleton.\n\nIt is known mainly for its Race Circuit, Mallory Park, a one-mile (1.6 km) track where car and motorbike races take place. Its church is All Saints and is located near the entrance. Numerous lakes and farms are situated in and around the village and the lakes are popular fishing areas.\n\nThere is a yearly firework display at the circuit which is well attended by residents and locals.\n\nKirkby was named after the Mallory family, most prominently Sir Anketil Malory (1341-1393), a knight and governor of the castle and town of Leicester in the time of Richard II. In 1564, the population consisted of 25 families.\n\nIn the 17th century, Sir Thomas Neale inherited Kirkby Manor from Baronet William Neale. In 1696, Thomas's descendant, Sir John Neale, left an interesting rent roll listing the tenants and their rents and referring to Sir John's mansion house or hall with attached woods worth 3,000 pounds and “a large park, very well wooded, and stocked with deer”.\n\nAda Byron, daughter of Lord Byron and colleague of Charles Babbage, lived in the now demolished Kirkby Hall during her childhood with her mother, Annabella Milbanke. A tree in the grounds of Mallory Park is reputed to be where Lord Byron wrote some of his most famous work.\n\nAccording to Nichols , Kirkby was enclosed in 1771, the award listing and naming Edward Wentworth as Lord of the Manor. The parish was notable for its fine new Hall, rebuilt by the Lord Viscount Wentworth but demolished in 1952.\n"}
{"id": "2190391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190391", "title": "Moses Kimball", "text": "Moses Kimball\n\nMoses Kimball (October 24, 1809 – February 21, 1895) was a US politician and showman. Kimball was a close associate of P. T. Barnum, and public-spirited citizen of Boston, Massachusetts.\n\nKimball was descended from Richard and Ursula Kimball, who came from England to Massachusetts in 1634 and were among the founders of the town of Ipswich, Massachusetts. Kimball was born in Ipswich to David and Nancy (Stacy) Kimball, and raised in Rockport, Massachusetts but moved to Boston at 15 to seek his fortune. He was ruined first in the \"Eastern Land\" speculation, and then again in 1833 in his purchase of the \"New England Galaxy\", one of the earliest weekly newspapers of Boston, which was sold after a few months at a serious loss. Kimball married Frances L. A. Hathaway on June 25, 1834, and in 1836 started the New England Printing Company but it collapsed in 1837.\n\nIn 1838 Kimball purchased most of the New England Museum, added to it, made arrangements for a lease of the building on Tremont and Bromfield streets (later the site of the Horticultural Hall).\n\nIn 1840, Kimball travelled just twenty miles northwest to the new mill city, Lowell, MA and founded the Lowell Museum.\n\nThen in 1841, Moses opened the Boston Museum. The museum, rebuilt in 1846 and 1880, displayed a large number of stuffed birds and animals (later owned by the Boston Society of Natural History), several remains of Greek sculpture (now in the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston), and several historical portraits by John Singleton Copley. The Museum was immediately successful.\n\nIn the late spring of 1842, Kimball traveled to New York City to meet his rival, P. T. Barnum, in person. He brought with him a large oblong box containing a most unusual curiosity: an embalmed mermaid purchased at great price near Calcutta by a Boston sea captain in 1817. If it wasn't a real mermaid, it was a remarkable fraud: the head of a baboon and the upper half of an orangutan was attached to the lower half of a large fish.\n\nOn June 18, Barnum and Kimball entered into a written agreement to exploit this \"curiosity supposed to be a mermaid.\" Kimball would remain the creature's sole owner and Barnum would lease it for $12.50 a week. Barnum christened his artifact \"The Fejee Mermaid\" and began to \"puff\" her to the skies.\n\nBy 1843, Kimball and P. T. Barnum were on the best of terms, and trading objects from their collections frequently. That same year they bought Charles Willson Peale's Museum in Philadelphia for $7,000 when it went out of business, and Barnum wrote to Kimball about the death of a prized live orangutan:\n\nThat same year, Kimball added a theater to his museum, although he called it a \"lecture-room\" in deference to the Puritan feeling in Boston. There he staged his own adaptations of \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\" among other productions.\n\nAs Kimball's fortune grew, he became an active public citizen. His first appearance in political life was in 1844, as a consequence of a speech by Daniel Webster, in which he urged the revision of the US naturalization laws in reaction to the Irish vote. As early as 1850, he offered a prize for the best essay on the treatment and prevention of croup. \n\nIn 1849 and 1850 Kimball was elected as a member of the Common Council for Ward 10, he served as a city counciler in 1850 and 1851. In 1851 he was elected to the City Board of Aldermen serving as a member of the Board of Aldermen in 1852.\n\nWhile never elected to the office, Kimball ran three times for Mayor of the City of Boston.\nIn 1858 he garnered 4,449 votes while losing to Frederic W. Lincoln, Jr. In 1860 Kimball ran as the Republican Party candidate, for Mayor of the city of Boston losing to Joseph Wightman. On that day, December 13, 1860, Kimball received 5,674 votes to Wightman's 8,834 votes. In 1868 he once again ran for Mayor, losing to Nathaniel Bradstreet Shurtleff, Sr. (Kimball received 9,156 votes to Shurtleff's 11,005 votes.)\n\nTwenty years later, he established a prize for the best exhibit of shade trees set out in the streets of Rockport, Massachusetts, and for the best loaf of bread exhibited at the annual fair. Kimball made three journeys to Europe, in 1867, 1872 and 1877 to 1878. In 1879 Kimball donated to Boston a copy of Thomas Ball's sculpture \"Emancipation Group\". Sited in Park Square it depicts an emancipated slave rising at the feet of Abraham Lincoln (Ball was a former employee of Kimball's.) In his will he left $5,000 for the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. \n\nMoses Kimball died in 1895, aged 85. In 1903 the famous Boston Museum was swept away.\n\n"}
{"id": "2190399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190399", "title": "Quay, New Mexico", "text": "Quay, New Mexico\n\nQuay is an unincorporated community in Quay County, New Mexico, United States. It is located approximately south of Tucumcari on New Mexico State Highway 209.\n\nSettlement of the community of Quay began \"circa\" 1902. In 1904, the community received its official name following the establishment of its post office. The name \"Quay\" honors Matthew S. Quay, a Civil War veteran who became a U.S. Senator from Pennsylvania in 1887. While in office, Quay became a proponent of statehood for the Territory of New Mexico and was appreciated throughout the state for his efforts. New Mexico was admitted as the 47th state in the Union on January 6, 1912. Sometime before 1926, the settlement was moved to the northwest to its present location near the newly constructed New Mexico State Highway 209, which stretches through the broad valley known as Quay Valley.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2190408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190408", "title": "Melky Cabrera", "text": "Melky Cabrera\n\nMelky Cabrera y Astacio (born August 11, 1984), nicknamed The Melkman is a Dominican professional baseball outfielder who is a free agent. He has played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the New York Yankees, Atlanta Braves, San Francisco Giants, Toronto Blue Jays, Chicago White Sox, Kansas City Royals, Cleveland Indians and Pittsburgh Pirates. While primarily a left fielder throughout his career, Cabrera spent a significant amount of his playing time as a center fielder for the Royals and Yankees.\n\nCabrera signed with the Yankees as an amateur free agent. He made his MLB debut for the Yankees in 2005. After playing as a fourth outfielder, the Yankees included him in a trade to the Braves after the 2009 season. Struggling with the Braves in 2010, he was released, and signed by the Royals in 2011. Recommitting himself to the game, Cabrera had a strong year with the Royals, and was traded to the Giants for the 2012 season. In 2012, Cabrera made his first All-Star Game appearance, winning the All-Star Game MVP Award. One month later, Cabrera received a 50-game suspension after testing positive for high levels of testosterone.\n\nCabrera was signed by the New York Yankees on November 14, 2001, at age 17, receiving a $175,000 signing bonus. He played for the Staten Island Yankees in the Class A Short-Season New York–Penn League in 2003, batting .283 with 31 runs batted in (RBIs) in 67 games. In 2004, he was promoted to the Battle Creek Yankees of the Class A Midwest League, hitting .333 with 16 RBIs in 42 games. He was promoted to the Tampa Yankees of the Class A-Advanced Florida State League, where he hit .288 with 51 RBIs in 85 games to finish the season.\n\nIn 2005, Cabrera started off with the Trenton Thunder of the Double-A Eastern League, hitting .275 with 60 RBIs in 106 games. At the end of June, he was promoted to the Columbus Clippers of the Triple-A International League, where he hit .324 with three homers and 11 RBIs in nine games. On July 7, he made his major league debut in center field at Yankee Stadium against the Cleveland Indians. He collected his first major league hit, a single, in his third at-bat that day. The next day he went 2-for-3 against Cleveland Indians pitcher Cliff Lee, scoring his first major league run, but then went 0-for-his-next-13 and made costly miscues, including one on July 15, 2005 against the Boston Red Sox at Fenway Park, misplaying a Trot Nixon fly ball that resulted in an inside-the-park home run during a 17–1 defeat. He was sent down to Triple-A Columbus the next day for 17 games and then demoted again, back to Double-A Trenton to finish out the season. Cabrera played 6 Major Leagues games batting .211.\n\nCabrera saw a lot of time in spring training of 2006 with starting outfielders Johnny Damon and Bernie Williams playing in the World Baseball Classic. He impressed the Yankees by hitting .349 in 16 games, but was ultimately sent down to Triple-A Columbus at the start of the season.\n\nHe started the season strongly at Triple-A Columbus, hitting .385 with 4 home runs and 24 RBIs in just 31 games before being called up on May 9, 2006 after left fielder Hideki Matsui broke his wrist and was on the disabled list until September 12, 2006. Cabrera replaced him in left field, and hit .318 in May with his first 10 career RBIs and two career stolen bases. On May 30, 2006, batting leadoff for only the second time in his career, he recorded his first career 4-hit game, going 4-for-6. He slumped in June, but hit his first major league home run on June 15. On June 6, 2006, in the 8th inning of a 2–1 game against the Red Sox, he made an outstanding catch in left-center, leaping over the wall to take a home run away from Boston slugger Manny Ramírez. This play earned Cabrera a \"This Year In Baseball\" award (voted on by the fans) for the outstanding play of the 2006 season.\n\nCabrera heated up again in July, hitting .313 with 14 RBIs. He had his first career five-RBI game on July 5, with his first career grand slam. On the 18th, he hit his first career walk-off home run. At 22, he was the second youngest Yankee ever to hit a walk-off home run, to the 21-year-old Mickey Mantle in 1953. He finished the 2006 season tied for second in the league with 12 outfield assists. In 130 games, Cabrera batted .280 with 7 home runs and 50 RBI.\n\nCabrera was slotted as fourth outfielder at the beginning of the 2007 season. He struggled, batting only .200 in April and .254 in May with limited playing time. He was batting .223 on the season when Jason Giambi went on the disabled list on June 1, 2007, giving him more playing time as Damon assumed Giambi's role of designated hitter and Cabrera took over center field from Damon. After this, he hit .320 with 3 of his 5 home runs and 21 of his 36 RBIs. He also had a 13-game hitting streak from July 1 to 17. While Bobby Abreu was struggling that month, Cabrera hit second to enable Derek Jeter to hit third and cemented himself as the Yankees' starting center fielder, causing Giambi to compete with Damon for DH at-bats after returning from the DL. Cabrera had a career-high hitting streak of 19 games, while continued to get his share of walks. Prior to the July 31 trade deadline, the Texas Rangers offered Yankee GM Brian Cashman their closer, Éric Gagné, in exchange for Cabrera, but Cashman declined and Cabrera went on to tie for third in outfield assists (16) for the season. In 150 games to finish 2007, Cabrera batted .273 with 8 home runs and 73 RBI.\n\nCabrera was involved in a bench-clearing brawl against the Tampa Bay Rays in a 2008 spring training game. MLB claimed to have seen video showing Cabrera punching superstar Tampa third baseman Evan Longoria during the brawl, and suspended him for two games along with teammate Shelley Duncan. Third base coach Bobby Meacham and hitting coach Kevin Long were also fined an undisclosed amount for their actions in the brawl.\n\nCabrera was a less-than-adequate hitter for the Yankees in 2008. His fielding and strong throwing arm in center field could not make up for his poor batting average. In early August, Yankee manager Joe Girardi demoted him to fourth outfielder, making Damon the everyday center fielder again. On August 15, 2008, Cabrera was demoted to Triple-A's Scranton/Wilkes-Barre Yankees, but recalled him on September 5. Playing 129 games in 2008, Cabrera finished with a .249 batting average, 8 home runs, and 37 RBI.\n\nAfter the 2008 season, the Yankees came close to trading Cabrera to the Milwaukee Brewers for veteran outfielder, Mike Cameron. Remaining with the Yankees, Cabrera competed with Brett Gardner for the starting center field job which Gardner won, relegating Cabrera to a backup role by manager Girardi once again. On April 22, however, Cabrera hit the first walk-off hit in the New Yankee Stadium, a 2-run homer in the bottom of the 14th, for a 9–7 Yankee win. By late April, with Gardner slumping and Cabrera's streak of stellar play, Cabrera once again became the starting center fielder. He won the Major League Baseball Clutch Performer of the Month of May.\n\nOn August 2, 2009, he became the first Yankee to hit for the cycle since Tony Fernández did on September 3, 1995. The home run was his 10th of the season, a new personal high. He also collected his 200th career RBI in the game, and finished the season with a .274 batting average, 13 home runs, and 68 RBI in 154 games. The Yankees finished the year with a 103-59 record and eventually won the World Series over the Philadelphia Phillies, giving Cabrera his first championship title and the Yankees their 27th title overall.\n\nOn December 22, 2009, the Yankees traded Cabrera to the Atlanta Braves with Mike Dunn and pitching prospect Arodys Vizcaino for Javier Vázquez and Boone Logan, with whom he signed a one-year deal worth $3.1 million with the Braves, avoiding arbitration.\n\nCabrera hit .255 with 4 home runs and 42 RBIs in 115 games for the 2010 Braves, and went 0-for-8 in the 2010 NLDS against the San Francisco Giants, who won the series three games to one. He batted eighth for the Braves and was described as \"pudgy\" and not diligent enough about his career to keep his weight down. The Braves released him on October 19.\n\nOn December 9, 2010, Cabrera signed a one-year, $1.25 million contract with the Kansas City Royals, eager for an opportunity to start consistently and hit in the middle of the lineup.\n\nIn his 2011 breakout season, he set career highs in RBIs (87), runs scored (102), stolen bases (20), home runs (18) and batting average (.305), while finishing fourth in the American League in hits with 201 and becoming the sixth Royal to record at least 200 hits in a season.\n\nOn November 7, 2011, the Royals traded Cabrera to the San Francisco Giants for Jonathan Sánchez and minor league pitcher Ryan Verdugo, seeking to bolster their starting rotation and free up center field for Lorenzo Cain.\n\nCabrera started 2012 with a .275 career average, but on May 29 he surpassed Willie Mays for most hits in the month of May in San Francisco Giants history with 50. The next night, he tied Randy Winn's San Francisco record for most hits in any month with 51.\n\nHis hot hitting earned him one of the three starting outfielder positions for the 2012 Major League Baseball All-Star Game in Kansas City with 7,521,784 votes, the highest number received by a National League (NL) outfielder that year. He singled in the first and hit a two-run homer in the fourth (the only round-tripper of the game) and was voted the All-Star Game MVP in the NL's 8–0 shutout win, going 2-for-3 with the two RBIs. He was the fifth Giant player to be honored as All-Star Game MVP.\n\nOn August 15, 2012, Cabrera was suspended for 50 games without pay for testing positive for high levels of testosterone, suggesting usage of MLB-proscribed performance-enhancing drugs. He admitted using a banned substance and was forced to accept the suspension. The suspension was effective immediately, meaning that Cabrera would take no further part for the remainder of the 2012 season. The suspension would also rule him out to start the 2013 season or if the Giants play enough games in the postseason (if the team clinched). Prior to his suspension, he led the majors with 159 hits and was second in the NL with a .346 batting average. He ended his suspension-shortened season with 11 home runs, 10 triples, 60 RBI and 13 stolen bases in 18 opportunities. One of Cabrera's associates purchased a website for $10,000 and falsified its contents in a way that would have allowed Cabrera to challenge his suspension by claiming that the positive test was caused by a substance sold through that website, but MLB officials and federal investigators used forensics to trace the website back to Cabrera. At his own request, Cabrera was ruled ineligible to win the 2012 NL batting title.\n\nAs the Giants clinched a postseason berth, Cabrera's suspension officially expired during the 2012 National League Championship Series. Although the suspension expired, the team decided to shut down Cabrera for the remainder of the postseason and revert him to the restricted list. The Giants would then go on to win the 2012 World Series over the Detroit Tigers. Despite his suspension, Cabrera received a 2012 World Series ring for his contributions to the team before his suspension.\n\nCabrera signed a two-year contract for $16 million with the Toronto Blue Jays on November 19, 2012. In a game against the Detroit Tigers on April 9, 2013, Cabrera recorded his 1,000th career hit, a single off starter Aníbal Sánchez. Cabrera battled a sore hamstring and quadriceps muscle through the first two months of the regular season, but the injuries did not warrant time on the disabled list. Cabrera was occasionally removed from games in the later innings to rest his legs.\nIn early June, it was reported that Major League Baseball would be pursuing suspensions for players implicated in the Biogenesis scandal, including Cabrera. Cabrera could have faced supplemental discipline regardless of the fact that he served a 50-game suspension at the end of the 2012 regular season, as MLB planned to further suspend players involved in the scandal for trying to cover their use of banned substances by using pseudonyms to purchase Biogenesis products or for falsely denying any involvement whatsoever. Cabrera responded to the speculation about a second suspension, saying \"If they suspend me again, I think that would be a harsh punishment because I already served my sentence. But it's up to them. I believe I've already served my sentence, especially missing the playoffs. That's what hurt me the most.\"\n\nCabrera was placed on the 15-day disabled list on June 27 due to left knee tendinitis. Fan and player favorite Munenori Kawasaki was called up to take Cabrera's roster spot. Cabrera returned from the disabled list on July 21 and played in 10 games before going back on the 15-day DL with irritation in his left knee. Neil Wagner was recalled to take Cabrera's roster spot.\n\nOn August 5, 2013, Cabrera was among several implicated players not suspended following the resolution of the Biogenesis investigation. It was reported on August 8 that Cabrera would be out of the lineup until at least September for a left knee injury. Manager John Gibbons told reporters on August 22 that Cabrera would not play for the rest of the season. On September 7, Toronto general manager Alex Anthopoulos told reporters that Cabrera had undergone a successful surgery to remove a benign tumor from his lower spine on August 30, and that a full recovery was expected. Shortened to 88 games in 2013, Cabrera batted .279 with 3 home runs and 30 RBI.\n\nHaving recovered from his offseason surgery, Cabrera played fully in 2014 spring training, and led the majors in hits and doubles during the spring with 30 and 10 respectively. He hit his only home run in the final game of spring training, a two-run shot to help the Blue Jays win 2–0 over the New York Mets on March 29 in Montreal. On April 4, 2014, Cabrera became the first MLB player to bat against Masahiro Tanaka, and hit a lead-off solo home run off of him. He would go on to record a four-game home run streak, besting his total of home runs from the previous season (3 in 88 games played). Cabrera broke a Blue Jays team record on April 13, by hitting in his 13th consecutive game to open the season. He would continue his hot hitting to open the season, setting another new Blue Jays franchise record for hits prior to May 1, when he recorded his 40th hit in a game against the Kansas City Royals on April 29. On May 1, he and teammate Mark Buehrle were named the co-winners of the Honda Player of the Month Award for April. Cabrera recorded his 500th career RBI on July 26, 2014, to aid the Blue Jays in breaking their 17-game losing streak at Yankee Stadium. On August 10, Cabrera drew a team-record 5 walks in a 6–5 win over the Detroit Tigers in 19 innings; the longest game in franchise history. He also became the first player to reach base 8 times in one game (the aforementioned 5 walks along with 3 hits) since Hall-of-Famer Rod Carew did so in 1972.\n\nIn a game against the Boston Red Sox on September 5, Cabrera was injured while diving back to first base in the third inning and left the game. He remained in the game but came out during his next at-bat in the sixth inning and was taken for x-rays, where it was determined that he had broken his right little finger and would require surgery, ending his 2014 season. At the time of his injury, he had 171 hits, second in the league to José Altuve, and had a .301 batting average. Coming to the end of his two-year contract with the Blue Jays, Cabrera expressed a desire to re-sign with Toronto. On November 1, the Blue Jays extended a qualifying offer to Cabrera for $15.3 million, which he later rejected.\n\nAfter the 2014 season, Cabrera signed a three-year, $42 million contract with the Chicago White Sox. In his first season with the White Sox in 2015, Cabrera played 158 games batting .273 with 36 doubles, 12 home runs, and 77 RBIs. In his second season with the White Sox in 2016, Cabrera played 151 games batting .296 with 14 home runs. In his third year with the White Sox before being traded to the Kansas City Royals, Cabrera batted .295 with 13 home runs and 56 RBIs in 98 games.\n\nThe White Sox traded Cabrera to the Royals for A. J. Puckett and Andre Davis on July 30, 2017.\n\nOn April 25, 2018, Cabrera signed a minor league contract with the Cleveland Indians. On May 20, he was called up by the Indians. Cabrera was designated for assignment on June 14, cleared waivers on June 18, and elected free agency. He re-signed a minor league contract with the Indians on July 5, 2018. The Indians purchased Cabrera's contract for a second time on July 20, 2018. He elected free agency on October 29, 2018.\n\nOn February 10, 2019, Cabrera signed a minor league contract with the Pittsburgh Pirates that included an invitation to spring training. On March 23, the Pirates announced that Cabrera had made the opening day roster. \n\nIn 2019, he batted .280/.313/.399. He had the slowest sprint speed of all National League right fielders, at 25.9 feet/second. He had the worst jump of all major league outfielders (-4.9 feet vs. average).\n\nIn the offseason, Cabrera lives in Miami. Cabrera and Robinson Canó became close friends as teammates in the minor leagues. He has a son in the Dominican Republic named Melky Jr. and two daughters who live with their respective mothers in New York and Orlando. His nickname around the Yankee clubhouse was \"Leche\" which is Spanish for \"milk.\" While with the Giants, he had a cheering section called \"The Melkmen\" in the AT&T Park stands during his record 51 hits in May 2012 although it disbanded after his 50-game suspension.\n\nCabrera is involved in charity work in his native Dominican Republic.\n\n"}
{"id": "2190409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190409", "title": "Réseau de transport de Longueuil", "text": "Réseau de transport de Longueuil\n\nRéseau de transport de Longueuil (RTL) () is a public transit system in the city of Longueuil, Quebec, Canada, and nearby communities on the South Shore of Montreal. The RTL had an annual ridership of 34,447,686 in 2013.\n\nRTL was officially inaugurated on July 1, 1974, as \"Commission de transport de la Rive-Sud de Montréal\" (\"CTRSM\"), replacing the former privately owned company \"Chambly Transport\". It served the former communities of Boucherville, Brossard, Greenfield Park, Longueuil, LeMoyne, Saint-Hubert, Saint-Lambert and Notre-Dame-du-Sacré-Cœur (later annexed to Brossard in 1978). From 1985 until 2002 it was named Société de transport de la Rive-Sud de Montréal (STRSM). Following the municipal mergers in 2002, the name officially changed to Société de transport de Longueuil. Its marketing name is Réseau de transport de Longueuil, to avoid confusion with the Société de transport de Laval.\n\nSome of the \"former\" municipalities demerged (broke away) from the city of Longueuil on January 1, 2006, as the result of referendums. However, demerged municipalities continue to be served by and to contribute financially to the RTL, since they still belong to the urban agglomeration of Longueuil.\n\n\n\n\nThe RTL provides 14 shared taxi routes for residents in certain sectors that are not served by regular bus routes. Shared taxis serve the same stops and accept the same tickets and passes as the bus service. Shared taxis take riders to the nearest transfer point. Each shared taxi route has its own schedule.\n\n"}
{"id": "2190411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190411", "title": "Gecekondu", "text": "Gecekondu\n\nGecekondu (Turkish for \"put up overnight\", plural gecekondular) is a Turkish word meaning a house put up quickly without proper permissions, a squatter's house, and by extension, a shanty or shack. Gecekondu bölgesi is a neighborhood made of those gecekondular. Gecekondu neighborhoods offer an affordable alternative for shelter for many low-income households who can not afford to purchase or rent formal housing. \n\nIn Turkish, \"gece\" means \"at night\" and \"kondu\" means \"placed\" (from the verb \"konmak\", \"to settle\" or \"to be placed\"); thus the term \"gecekondu\" comes to mean \"placed (built) overnight\". And \"bölge\" means a \"zone\", \"district\" or even \"region\", so a \"gecekondu bölgesi\" is a \"suddenly built-up shanty-neighborhood.\"\n\nIn common usage, it refers to the low cost apartment buildings or houses that were constructed in a very short time by people migrating from rural areas to the outskirts of the large cities. Robert Neuwirth writes in his book \"Shadow Cities\" that these squatters are exploiting a legal loophole which states that if one starts building after dusk and moves into a completed house before dawn the next day without having been noticed by the authorities, then the next day the authorities are not permitted to tear the building down but instead must begin a legal proceeding in court (and thus it is more likely one can stay). Such buildings may be constructed without going through the necessary procedures required for construction, such as acquiring building permits, and can be very densely populated. Neuwirth stated in 2004 that \"half the residents of Istanbul - perhaps six million people - dwell in gecekondu homes\". Despite connotations of urban poverty and overcrowding, almost all gecekondu neighbourhoods are supplied with running water and electricity.\n\nThe gecekondu phenomenon is directly linked with the problems of unemployment and poverty in the rural areas of Turkey, especially in the east of the country. In many instances entire villages have migrated to the outskirts of the large industrialized cities in order to seek a better standard of living.\n\nAt present, some gecekondu areas are being gradually demolished and replaced by modern mass-housing compounds developed by the government's Mass Housing Development Administration (TOKİ). Gecekondular are present both in small Turkish towns and in large cities such as Izmir, Ankara and Istanbul.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2190414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190414", "title": "KAGU", "text": "KAGU\n\nKAGU is a classical music radio station run by Gonzaga University in Spokane, Washington. They broadcast at 88.7 MHz on the FM dial.\n\nPrior to its switch to all-classical, it was a college rock station from 1988 until 1996. Billing itself as the \"hundred-thousand milliwatt of the River City\", KAGU broadcast a 100 watt signal throughout Spokane. Other slogans included \"your only alternative\" and \"proletariat and bourgeoisie alike agree!\"\n\nIn its first year, KAGU was largely relegated to a radio format of Adult contemporary music with student reports of news and sports as live lab voice work. But in 1987–89 things changed with KAGU when Station Manager John Hipp developed radio shows that were cutting edge college radio. By year's end in 1988 there was a renaissance of student shows that stand as some of the station's most creative and exciting productions. Among the repertoire were live sports broadcasts, live speaker series, live theatre audiocasts, live weekly music shows, and student-sponsored music genre shows. Notable among the broadcasts at the time were the shows \"Folk Stew\" which showcased live Spokane, Washington regional folk and blues musicians, the \"Cork the Tuna's Skipped Grooves\" show on which Steve MacCorkle brought the edge of his bay area roots and love for alternative new wave and punk tunes, and John Hipp's show \"The Hippster Radio Identity Crisis\" which was a cornucopia of musical treasures & \"Dead Before Midnight\" featuring Live Grateful Dead bootlegs. These are notable examples of the early days of KAGU, but there were other student shows which also added to the vibe and fabric of the exciting first years of the station.\n\nA marketing high point was achieved when the infamous trailer \"Fish For Breakfast\" was broadcast in 1994. The concept was simple: the voiceover stated \"Fish For Breakfast, and KAGU every night. That's the way it oughtta be!\"\n\nDaily programming included alternative rock and specialty shows from 7 AM to midnight.\n\nIn late 2004, the KAGU transmitter and antennae were moved from atop the GU Administration Building to the KHQ-TV tower site on Tower Mountain in southeast Spokane. Also, KAGU’s power was boosted from 100 watts to 5,000 watts. Currently, the KAGU signal reaches a 60-mile radius from Tower Mountain.\n\nThe station currently follows a commercial-free, all-classical music format. It is the Spokane affiliate of the Metropolitan Opera radio broadcasts.\n"}
{"id": "2190423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190423", "title": "The Lonely Bull (album)", "text": "The Lonely Bull (album)\n\nThe Lonely Bull, released in 1962, is the debut album by Herb Alpert & the Tijuana Brass.\n\nMost of the tracks on the album were geared toward the TJB's Mariachi sound. There were also a few cover versions of popular songs, a trend which would grow in their next two albums, \"Volume 2\" and \"South of the Border\".\n\n\"Limbo Rock\" covered a novelty dance song that had been a calypso-style hit by Chubby Checker. \"Struttin' With Maria\" was later used as the theme for a TV game show called \"Personality\", hosted by Larry Blyden. The tune \"Acapulco 1922\" uses the old song \"Oh, You Beautiful Doll\" (by Seymour Brown and Nat D. Ayer, 1911) as a starting point, with a mariachi spin.\n\nThe album was originally issued in both mono and stereo versions, though the stereo version essentially had the mono version on the right channel with a separate solo trumpet track on the left. Because of this, critics have noted that when listened to on headphones, the stereo album sounds excessively \"heavy\" on one side. This led many later fans to prefer the mono version.\n\nThe original stereo version of the album has since been reissued on the Shout! Factory music label.\n\nThe mono version of the title track, \"The Lonely Bull,\" can be found on the Herb Alpert compilation \"Definitive Hits\".\n"}
{"id": "2190431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190431", "title": "Dimension X (Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles)", "text": "Dimension X (Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles)\n\nDimension X is a fictional alternate dimension or galaxy in the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles franchise. It appears in various forms in the 1987 series, the TMNT Adventures comics, the 2012 series, the IDW comics, and the UK Hero Turtles comics.\n\nDimension X is a parallel dimension that has various adaptions in each media appearance:\n\nIn the 1987 cartoon, Dimension X is the home of several characters, most notably Krang, one of the series' main antagonists. Krang typically uses the \"Dimensional Portal\" located inside the Technodrome for transportation between Dimension X and Earth, although other portals and means of travel are occasionally seen. It is depicted as a hostile, war torn kingdom with foreboding landscapes and many fierce monsters. Although it also home to many peaceful species, such as the Neutrinos.\n\nIn the Archie Comics, Dimension X is a spiral galaxy in which numerous inhabited (or habitable) worlds are located. It was originally governed by theocrats, banishing all warlords. Later, there's a conflict between the Imperial Aerwyl Fleet and the Nova Squadron.\n\nIn the IDW Comics, Dimension X is depicted as a warzone controlled by Krang where the Utroms, the Triceratons, and the Neutrinos are fighting for their planets.\n\nIn the 2012 \"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\" TV series, Dimension X is the home dimension of the Kraang and the Utrom. So far, it is known that the pink air of the Kraang's part of Dimension X is nitrogen mixed with sulfur and that it is very foggy. The water of Dimension X has hydrocarbon that can melt anything in the Dimension of Earth. For some reason, the water had no effect on April O'Neil when some of it was accidentally splashed on her (it was later revealed to be because she's a human-Kraang hybrid which also made her immune to the Mutagen's effects).\n\nIn the episode \"Into Dimension X,\" it is revealed that time moves faster in Dimension X, with Leatherhead spending decades there within the period of a year passing on Earth. Dimension X is also home to the Triceratons in this series and has served as the battleground for a war between them and the Kraang.\n\nDimension X was featured, unnamed, in the to \"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\". The filmmakers first expressed interest in featuring the Dimension X in the sequel in 2014. In the film, Shredder is transported from a police convoy to the Technodrome, in Dimension X, in which he agrees to help Krang conquer Earth. The Technodrome is later transported to Earth in the film's climax, though the Turtles manage to return it to Dimension X. The film never shows the Dimension X's exterior, as the only scene taking place there is inside the Technodrome, while it appears off-screen in the climax.\n\nKrang is a brain-like alien warlord exiled from Dimension X and has ever since been doing business with Shredder.\n\nThe Utrom are the benevolent brain-like beings of Dimension X.\n\nIn the 2003 series, the Utrom live on another planet.\n\nIn the 2012 TV series, millions of Utrom residing in Dimension X were overpowered by Kraang's terribly powerful mental abilities and became enslaved copies of himself known as \"the Kraang.\" The few remaining Utrom are the Utrom Council, consisting of four members: Queen, Bishop, Rook and Pawn. Originally a fifth member was \"Knight\" but became known as Kraang Subprime since being brainwashed by the deranged Kraang Prime.\n\nLord Dregg is an alien warlord from Dimension X who replaced Shredder as the main antagonist in the last two seasons of the 1987 cartoon, voiced by Tony Jay. In his first appearances, he attempted to take over the world, but his plans were constantly foiled by the Turtles. Eventually, he started a smear campaign against them, which turned the citizens of New York against them and in favor of him. This all came to an end in the episode \"Doomquest\". He is unable to fight the titular villain, and when the Turtles do so, he flees in fear, and the populace finally discover that the Turtles were heroes and Dregg was the villain (after April showed them a tape of his true motives). His last attempt involved using a robotic suit to absorb the powers of several other aliens, and kill the Turtles. His plan failed after Donatello and Michelangelo used Krang's android body to shrink him down and banish him to Dimension X. It is presumed that Dregg had died after being banished into Dimension X, because according to Donatello, Krang's android body would explode a few seconds after it shrunk down.\n\nA new version of Dregg who's named Vringath appeared in the fourth season of the 2012 cartoon, voiced by Peter Stormare. He appears as an insectoid crime lord originating from the Planet Sectoid 1. When the Turtles incur his wrath while they were at a space port on a planet not being in the Federation, Dregg becomes one of their most dangerous enemies. He soon hires the bounty hunter Armaggon to hunt down the Turtles, later joining him in the Cosmic Ocean of Veruna in an effort to destroy the Turtles and claim a piece of the Black Hole Generator entrusted to the Daagon. Having been thwarted in this attempt, Dregg has Armaggon capture the Salamandrian G'Throkka/Sal Commander, and blackmails him and his comrade Mona Lisa/Y'gythgba into helping him capture the Turtles in exchange for sparing their world. However, after betraying them, Dregg is defeated by the Turtles and Salamandrians working together and apparently revealed to be a cyborg insect lifeform. Dregg then tracks the Turtles to Magdomar, home of the last Black Hole Generator fragment, in order to exact revenge for their destruction of his Scorpinoid. After failing to defeat them alone, Dregg contacted the Triceratons, offering to help them locate the generator fragment in exchange for a hefty bounty and the Turtles for his own vengeance. He then struck again, only to be apparently knocked into a sea of lava; however, he then swoops in during the confrontation between the Triceratons, Turtles, and Tokka and succeeds in stealing the fragment. Pursued by a flight-capable Tokka, he offers the Triceratons the fragment in exchange for saving him from her and an even larger bounty than earlier agreed upon. The Triceratons allow him onboard their flagship but then jettison him into space. Dregg survived and teamed up with Newtrilizer in a plot to unleash the Vreen on New York City and take over Salamandria. Both of them are defeated by the Turtles, Sal Commander, and Mona Lisa.\n\nAntrax is a character from the 1987 animated series and toyline. He looks like a giant ant wearing the executioner's hood and outfit, and armed with an appropriate axe. In both the toy and the show he's labeled as \"Dimension X's executioner,\" which makes him an alien rather than another mutant.\n\nHe appeared once in the 1987 cartoon series episode \"Night of the Rogues\" voiced by Pat Fraley. Shredder called some of the Turtles' past foes together consisting of Antrax, Rat King, Leatherhead, Slash, Tempestra, Chrome Dome, and Scumbug in hopes of defeating the turtles. This was the first appearance of Scumbug and Antrax.\n\nAntrax would later appear in the 2012 cartoon series as a mutant ant created by Stockman-Fly. He can reproduce by emitting his look-a-likes from his abdomen.\n\nGeneral Traag is the leader of Krang's loyal Rock Soldiers from Dimension X.\n\nIn the 1987 cartoon, Traag (voiced by Peter Renaday) came following the Neutrinos through the dimensional portal. After a small skirmish with the turtles, the Neutrinos teamed up with them and Michelangelo and Donatello sent both Traag and Granitor back through the portal and to their own dimension. Traag would make further appearances in the series until the eight season finale \"Turtle Trek\". As \"Turtle Trek\" ended with the Technodrome stranded in Dimension X it can be assumed Tragg is still in Dimension X somewhere.\n\nHe appeared in Archie Comics arcade game, and .\n\nIn the IDW comics, he is called \"Captain Tragg\" and helped Krang in trying to conquer the home planet of the Neutrinos and completely escaped after the battle in which the END rocket from Professor Honeycutt put all of the weapons of Krang's forces out of action.\n\nIn the 2012 cartoon, Traag is a 20 ft lava-spewing rock monster with regenerating abilities, who is in service to the Kraang. He first appeared in \"TCRI,\" where he was brought by the Kraang through a portal that connected TCRI to Dimension X. He proved to be a challenge to the Turtles, so Leatherhead ended up dragging him through the portal back to Dimension X. In \"Showdown,\" Traag was seen guarding the portal when the Kraang upgraded it with a force field. When the Turtles tried to destroy it, they drew the attention of him and the Kraang, so Leonardo used the laser to disintegrate Traag. In \"Into Dimension X,\" Traag teamed up with Granitor to attack the Turtles near the Kraang's facility in Dimension X. However, they were both defeated by Michelangelo in his \"savage\" suit when he used his voice to break apart the part of the cliff both rock monsters were on. Traag and Granitor alongside smaller Rock Soldiers were later summoned by the 80's Shredder and the 80's Kraang to attack New York where they fought the Ninja Turtles and the Mighty Mutanimals. With help from the local Rocksteady and Bebop, the Ninja Turtles sent the Rock Soldiers back to Dimension X and defeated the 80's Shredder and the 80's Krang.\n\nSergeant Granitor is General Traag's right-hand man, and one of Krang's loyal Rock Soldiers from Dimension X.\n\nIn the 1987 cartoon, Granitor (voiced by Pat Fraley) came to Earth following the Neutrinos through the dimensional portal, originally appearing inside the Technodrome. After a small skirmish with the turtles, where the turtles destroyed the rock warrior's weather-making machine, the Neutrinos teamed up with them and Michelangelo and Donatello sent both Granitor and General Tragg back through the portal and to Dimension X.\n\nHe appeared in the arcade game as the 4th scene's (7th stage) boss, and .\n\nIn the IDW comics, he is called \"Sergeant Granitor\" and commanded an assault on a Neutrino resistance bunker, to capture the Fugitoid and bring him back to Krang. Due to Granitor's command, the Neutrino bunker was destroyed and many innocent Neutrinos killed along with Fugitoid's family. Later on he and several other Rock Soldiers was searching the demolished base for Fugitoid. Granitor realized that the Fugitoid was in fact Honeycutt and chased him through a portal to Earth. However, the Fugitoid used his morphing abilities to shapeshift himself into human form and get lost in the crowd.\n\nIn the 2012 cartoon, Granitor is a 20 ft blue fire-spewing rock monster with regenerating abilities, who resembles Traag (but is pale-pink in color) and is in service to the Kraang. He first appeared in \"Into Dimension X,\" where he teamed up with Traag to attack the Turtles near the Kraang's facility in Dimension X. However, they were both defeated by Michelangelo in his \"savage\" suit when he used his voice to break apart the part of the cliff both rock monsters were on. Traag and Granitor alongside smaller Rock Soldiers were later summoned by the 80's Shredder and the 80's Kraang to attack New York where they fought the Ninja Turtles and the Mighty Mutanimals. With help from the local Rocksteady and Bebop, the Ninja Turtles sent the Rock Soldiers back to Dimension X and defeated the 80's Shredder and the 80's Krang.\n\nBellybomb is an alien outlaw with one eyestalk and a mouth on his stomach.\n\nIn the Archie Comics, Bellybomb was sentenced to 17 life sentences on the toxic waste dump Morbus for extortion, armed robbery, man eating, brain poaching, soul thievery, and impersonating a deity named Bob. After Slash kills the guards on Morbus, Krang and Bellybomb escape with him. Upon the ship landing on an Eden World where Rocksteady and Bebop were on, the two of them accompanied the villains back to Earth. Once on Earth, Bellybomb grafts Krang to Shredder's body while the Turtles were busy fighting Rocksteady, Bebop, and Slash. After the Turtles freed Shredder from Krang's control, Bellybomb and Krang were sent back to Morbus while Slash escapes.\n\nIn the 2012 cartoon, Vrax Belebome (voiced by Charlie Murphy) is a shady information dealer who the Fugitoid and the Ninja Turtles visit at Zayford's Cantina to get intel on the Triceraton mothership. After the Fugitoid's money was reclaimed by the Turtles following his claim of a down payment, Vrax contacted some Neutrino mercenaries to steal the information on the Black Hole Generator from Michelangelos's mind. Following the Neutrino mercenaries' defeat, Vrax was seen contacting Lord Dregg about the Neutrinos' mission and cuts him off when the Ninja Turtles return. Michelangelo intimidates Vrax to give them the plans for the Triceraton mothership which Vrax does.\n\nScale Tail is a snake-like alien bounty hunter with snake-headed hands, appearing in the 1993 video game . In the 1992 toyline, Scale Tale is mentioned to be an ally of Krang.\n\nAlthough Slash is technically an ordinary Earth turtle in the animated series, he is considered \"native\" to Dimension X since he was exposed to mutagen and took on his present form there.\n\nStump & Sling are two tree-like intergalactic wrestling promoters working on the Stump's Asteroid.\n\nBalaraphon is a planet inhabited by a peaceful species native to Dimension X. They were attacked unprovoked by an invasion fleet led by Krang and Shredder, but saved thanks to the interference of the TMNT (who had arrived on the planet). The TMNT's arrival on Balaraphon was the final phase of a plan by Shredder to exhaust and trap them after a period of exploration in Dimension X. It is also the scene of the Technodrome's final destruction as it was dragged down into the pit of a tentacled creature after its engines were blown out by the TMNT whilst escaping Shredder's trap. Balaraphon was seen in the original series episodes \"Turtle Trek\" and \"Divide and Conquer\".\n\nThe name Balaraphon was later used for a planet in the 2003 animated series, specifically it's \"Fast Forward\" season, in which it was apparently involved in an interplanetary war. Interstellar con man Torbin Zixx tricked the Turtles into helping him deliver medical supplies to the planet, unaware that the containers in which they were carried were in fact made of high-grade explosives.\n\nLocated on an unnamed planet or natural satellite, the Dimension X Penitentiary is where some of the worst criminals of Dimension X are being held. Convicts include Skaarg, Dementor, and the Dregma Brothers. Unfortunately, the penitentiary is not protected against dimensional portals, allowing them to slip out while Irma and Vernon Fenwick slip through the portal from the Earth to Dimension X, ending up there inside one of the holding cells.\n\nIt was seen in the episode \"Convicts from Dimension X\" of the 1987–1996 series.\n\nThe Eden Worlds appeared in the TMNT Adventures comics and are a group of planets reminiscent of the wildernesses of East Africa. It is said that the most \"intelligent\" species were forbidden to live on those planets. The name \"Eden Worlds\" refers to the stories in the Old Testament about the Garden of Eden.\n\nCherubae sent Bebop and Rocksteady to an Eden World at the end of the \"Turnstone\" storyarc so that they could not do more \"bad things.\" The two of them are seen in leaf loincloths preparing to follow a herd of common warthogs and black rhinoceroses.\n\nWith Krang and Bellybomb escaping in a spacecraft from Morbus, Bebop and Rocksteady hitched a ride with them when their ship stopped on their Eden World. While on Krang and Bellybomb's ship, Bebop and Rocksteady briefly returned to Earth in order to emigrate some local Central Park Zoo animals to their Eden World while picking up some clothes and weapons to use on the cages in the process. Once that was successful, Bebop and Rocksteady took Krang and Bellybomb back to Morbus before returning to their Eden World. Once the animals were released on their Eden World, Bebop and Rocksteady removed their clothes and webt back to their simple life in the wilds.\n\nHirobyl appeared in the TMNT Adventures comics and is a planet orbiting an aging and dying red giant star, located in a planetary system deep within Dimension X. But it was Krang who destroyed all life on the planet in its search for the Turnstone.\n\nThe name of the planet is possibly a reference to the atomic bombing of Hiroshima in 1945 and the 1986 Chernobyl disaster, since the planet is dying and the TMNT refer that a giant structure reminds much of the workers statues who can be seen in the former Soviet Union back in those days.\n\nHuanu was a planet that orbited a red star. It was the homeworld of Wingnut and Screwloose and their respective races, until Krang assaulted the world, destroying it and all its inhabitants, save the pair, who escaped and swore revenge on Krang.\n\nMorbus appeared in the TMNT Adventures comics and is a toxic waste dump and prison planet.\n\nCherubae sent Krang to Morbus at the end of the \"Turnstone\" storyarc. It is on Morbus that Krang encounters Slash and Bellybomb.\n\nIn the IDW comics, it is a hostile world ruled by Traxus, until it was conquered by Krang.\n\nNeutrino is the home planet of the Neutrino people. While named in the IDW comics, it remains unnamed in the 1987 cartoon and the Archie comics. The planet was the target of an invasion led by General Traag and ordered by Krang, in the 1987 cartoon episode \"Four Turtles and a Baby.\"\n\nIn the Japanese anime OVA \"\", the planet is depicted as a kingdom.\n\nPalmadise was a planet covered in palm trees and home to Slash. The planet was deforested by the order of the Galactic President, who demanded all the palm trees to use as wood for his fireplace.\n\nSerot is home to some slave pits and is run by Vorx. It is also the location of the pit of the Great Chaarg, which serves as a death penalty for slaves who attempt to rebel or escape. The Turtles were sent there by the Shredder in the episode \"Shredder Triumphant\" of the 1987 TMNT cartoon.\n\nThe Stump Asteroid appears in the TMNT Adventures comics, and is a spherical asteroid, which is the home of Stump and Sling. From this asteroid, they host the \"Stump & Sling Intergalactic Wrestling\", in the Stump Arena. Another alien, Cudley the Cowlick, is in charge of transporting the wrestlers to and from Stump Asteroid. In addition to the Turtles, who wrestled at Stump Asteroid twice, famous wrestlers include Ace Duck, Bloodbath, Cryin' Houn (who later changed his name to El Mysterio) and Leatherhead.\n\nThe Stump Arena covers much of the asteroid. From a vontage point near the arena, an observer can view the skies of the Stump Asteroid.\n\nDuring season 4 of the 1987 cartoon series, the Technodrome is located on a jungle-filled asteroid with a volcano.\n\nDuring season 2 of the 1987 cartoon series, the Technodrome is located on a rocky landscape, on an unnamed planet or natural satellite in Dimension X. A similar place is also seen in the early season 2 adaptions and some following issues of the Archie comics.\n\nThe Kraang Homeworld is a planet in Dimension X that appears in the 2012 TV series episode \"Showdown.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2190438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190438", "title": "Ashley Tisdale", "text": "Ashley Tisdale\n\nAshley Michelle Tisdale (born July 2, 1985) is an American actress, singer, and producer. During her childhood, Tisdale was featured in over 100 advertisements and had minor roles in television and theatre. She achieved mainstream success as Maddie Fitzpatrick in the Disney Channel series \"The Suite Life of Zack & Cody\" (2005-2008). This success was heightened when she starred as Sharpay Evans in the \"High School Musical\" film series (2006-2008). The success of the films led to Tisdale signing with Warner Bros. Records and subsequently releasing her debut studio album \"Headstrong\" (2007). The album was a commercial success, earning a gold certification from the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). Tisdale played the voice of Candace Flynn in the Disney Channel animated series \"Phineas & Ferb\" (2007-2015).\n\nTisdale's second studio album, \"Guilty Pleasure\" (2009), was released to less commercial success than its predecessor. Tisdale would part ways with Warner Bros. Records following the release of the album. During this time, she began appearing in more films and returned to television with shows such as \"Hellcats\" (2010). Tisdale's production company Blondie Girl Productions, first formed in 2008, signed a multi-year production deal with Relativity Media in 2010; Tisdale would produce shows such as \"Miss Advised\" (2012) as part of the deal. Tisdale starred in the \"High School Musical\" spin-off film \"Sharpay's Fabulous Adventure\" (2011), releasing a soundtrack to promote the film. This marked her final portrayal of the character to date.\n\nTisdale announced work on her third studio album in 2013, releasing the promotional single \"You're Always Here\". She had the leading role in the horror comedy film \"Scary Movie 5\" (2013). Tisdale has continued to appear in television roles, joining the main cast of \"Clipped\" (2015). She also served as executive producer of the ABC Family television series \"Young & Hungry\" (2014–2018). In 2018, Tisdale returned to music with the release of the singles \"Voices in My Head\" and \"Love Me & Let Me Go\". Her third studio album and first in a decade, \"Symptoms\", was released in May 2019. Since 2019, Tisdale has appeared as Jenny Kenney in the CBS sitcom \"Carol's Second Act\".\n\nAshley Michelle Tisdale was born in Monmouth County, New Jersey to Lisa Morris and contractor Michael Tisdale. Her father is Christian and her mother is Jewish; she was raised with \"a little bit of both\" religions. Tisdale's elder sister Jennifer is an actress and producer. She is also related to businessman Ron Popeil through her maternal grandfather Arnold Morris who was best known for being a pitchman for the Ginsu knife. At the age of three, Tisdale met her manager, Bill Perlman, at a New Jersey mall. He sent her to various auditions for commercials, and she was placed in more than one hundred national network TV advertisements as a child. She began her theatrical career by appearing in \"\" and \"The Sound of Music\" at Monmouth County's Jewish Community Center. Tisdale was eight years old when she was cast to play the part of Cosette in the musical \"Les Misérables\", and only recalled taking a single singing lesson before landing the role. In 2007, Tisdale told \"Newsday\", \"When I was little, I saw the play \"Les Misérables\" on Broadway. I thought it was the most amazing thing I have ever seen, so I went to my manager and told him I wanted to be in it\". Tisdale toured for two years with \"Les Misérables\" before landing a role in a touring production of \"Annie\" in Korea.\n\nWhen Tisdale was twelve, she sang for then-President Bill Clinton during an event at the White House as part of a troupe. Hoping to expand her career, Tisdale and her family moved to Los Angeles, California. She landed her first role in 1997, guest starring on an episode of both \"Smart Guy\" and \"7th Heaven\". During this time, she also began doing modeling work for Ford Models. The following year, Tisdale appeared as a voice actor in both \"An All Dogs Christmas Carol\" (1998) and \"A Bug's Life\" (1998). She guest starred in an episode of \"Boston Public\" in 2000, earning a 2000 Young Artist Award nomination for \"Best Guest Performance in a TV Drama\". Tisdale continued to make guest appearances on television shows and appear in minor film roles throughout the following years, with roles in films such as \"Donnie Darko\" (2001) and \"The Mayor of Oyster Bay\" (2002). During this time, Tisdale continued to work and attend school, stating \"I was always in regular school and I worked in clothing stores growing up. I didn't 'make it' until I was 18, so I had already graduated public school. I definitely feel like I had the best of both worlds.\"\n\nTisdale joined the main cast of the Disney Channel series \"The Suite Life of Zack & Cody\" in 2005, and would continue to star in the show until 2008. The show proved to be a hit for the network, and earned Tisdale a Nickelodeon UK Kids' Choice Awards. Tisdale had her breakout role as Sharpay Evans in the Disney Channel film \"High School Musical\" (2006). The film was the network's most successful film of 2006, receiving 7.7 million viewers upon its premiere. The soundtrack for the film, featuring numerous contributions from Tisdale, went on to sell over three million copies in the United States alone. The song \"What I've Been Looking For\" (2006), a duet with Lucas Grabeel, became her first top 40 hit on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, and was certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). Tisdale, along with the rest of the cast, embarked on the (2006–07) tour to promote the film. She met dancer Jared Murillo while working on \"High School Musical\", and the two later dated for two years; they split up in 2009. During this time, Tisdale began appearing on soundtracks for the Disney Channel, and released a cover of \"Kiss the Girl\" (2006) to promote \"The Little Mermaid\".\nWith the success of \"High School Musical\", Tisdale was offered a recording contract from Warner Bros. Records; she began working on her debut studio album in 2006. \"Be Good to Me\" (2006) was released as the album's lead single, with \"He Said She Said\" (2007) being released shortly afterwards as the second single. Tisdale's debut album, \"Headstrong\" (2007), was released in February; the album featured elements of dance-pop and hip-hop music. The album sold 64,000 copies in its first week of release in the United States, debuting at number five on the \"Billboard\" 200. The project was a commercial success, selling over 500,000 copies in the country. \"He Said She Said\" was later re-released as the album's second single to promote the album, and went on to earn a gold certification from the RIAA. The album's final two singles were released exclusively in select European territories. Tisdale embarked on her Headstrong Tour Across America to promote the album. She also co-executive produced a documentary, \"There's Something About Ashley\" (2007), documenting the recording of the album and the production of her music videos.\n\nTisdale returned to her role as Sharpay Evans in \"High School Musical 2\" (2007). The film was viewed by seventeen million people during its premiere, making it the most-watched movie on cable television. She received positive reviews for her performance in the film, which earned two Primetime Emmy Awards nominations. The film's soundtrack topped the \"Billboard\" 200, selling 615,000 copies in its first week of release. Tisdale joined the cast of the animated Disney Channel series \"Phineas and Ferb\", which debuted immediately after \"High School Musical 2\". The show earned ten million viewers and became the most-watched animated series among kids and tweens in 2010. \"Phineas and Ferb\" has also received acclaim by critics and has won three Primetime Emmy Awards. Tisdale remained on the series until its conclusion in 2015, appearing in various television films in the role as well.\n\nIn 2008, Tisdale formed her own production company, Blondie Girl Productions. The television film \"Picture This\" (2008) marked Tisdale's debut as an executive producer and as an actress in a leading role; she played Mandy Gilbert, an unpopular and bullied teenager. The film premiered on ABC Family in 2008 to 4.3 million viewers. Tisdale again appeared as Sharpay Evans in \"\", which premiered in October 2008. It earned $42 million in its domestic opening weekend, and grossed a total of $255 million worldwide. Her performance in the film earned her critical acclaim, earning an MTV Movie Award for \"Breakthrough Performance Female\" in 2009. Owen Gleiberman of \"Entertainment Weekly\" labeled her one of film's breakout stars, and Mark Kermode said Tisdale was 2008's \"best supporting actress\".\n\nTisdale began working on her second studio album in 2008, taking more creative control over the record than with her last. The album served as a musical departure from her prior record, with Tisdale hoping to attain a more \"rock-oriented\" and \"edgier\" sound. The project was preceded by the release of \"It's Alright, It's OK\" (2009), which went on to have some success in countries such as Austria and Germany. Her second studio album, \"Guilty Pleasure\" (2009), was released in select territories on June 11, 2009; it would not receive a release in the United States until July 28. The album sold an estimated 25,000 copies in its first week of release, debuting at number twelve on the \"Billboard\" 200. The album's second and final single, \"Crank It Up\" (2009), was released in select European territories. Tisdale parted ways with the label following the release of the record. During this time, Tisdale began dating director Scott Speer, who had directed her previous music videos; the couple would break up in 2011. Tisdale also starred in the film \"Aliens in the Attic\" (2009) as teenager Bethany Pearson. Although she is credited as one of the main characters, \"The New York Times\" said Tisdale \"spends much of the film off-screen\". The film was a minor success in box offices, grossing $60 million worldwide.\n\nTisdale announced her return to television in 2010, starring as head-cheerleader Savannah Monroe in The CW drama \"Hellcats\". Tisdale was reported to be the highest paid cast member on the series, earning $30,000 per episode. The show ran for one season, and was cancelled by the network in 2011. Blondie Girl Productions signed a production deal in 2010 to create, develop, and produce both films and television shows. During this time, Tisdale did voice work for the adult animated series \"Family Guy\" and \"The Cleveland Show\"; she appeared in two episodes of the former. In 2010, Disney Channel announced its intention to produce a \"High School Musical\" spin-off focusing on the life of Sharpay Evans in New York after she concluded high school. Tisdale was confirmed to return as Evans for the spin-off and serve as the executive producer of the project. \"Sharpay's Fabulous Adventure\" premiered on Disney Channel to five million viewers in August 2011. In 2012, she made a guest appearance in an episode of \"Raising Hope\" and had a starring role in a CBS pilot produced by Louis C.K., which was not picked up by the channel. Tisdale also portrayed a desirable and high-priced escort in a two-episode arc in the fifth season of FX's \"Sons of Anarchy\".\n\nShe served as the executive producer of the reality-television series \"Miss Advised\" (2012). In 2013, E! aired a television special produced by Tisdale named \"Inner Circle\" that focused on her friendship with actress Vanessa Hudgens. The next year, Tisdale teamed again with Disney Channel on the film \"Cloud 9\", on which she worked as an executive producer. ABC Family's comedy series \"Young & Hungry\" is also produced by Tisdale; it stars Emily Osment and premiered in June 2014. In June 2012, The Weinstein Company announced that Tisdale had been given the leading role in Dimension Films' \"Scary Movie 5\". She portrayed Jody, a dancer in her late-20s. The film was released in April 2013, and grossed $15 million on its first weekend, making it the lowest-grossing weekend for a \"Scary Movie\" film; it was also panned by critics. Tisdale had a recurring role in ABC's sitcom \"Super Fun Night \" as Jazmine, the sister of Rebel Wilson's character, and guest starred on CBS's \"The Crazy Ones\" in 2013. That same year, Tisdale was cast to voice the title character of Hub Network's animated series \"\". For her performance as Sabrina, Tisdale was nominated for \"Outstanding Performer in an Animated Program\" in the 41st Daytime Emmy Awards.\n\nTisdale told MTV in 2013 that she had begun working on her third studio album. She said she was inspired to make music again and that she hoped to \"surprise people a little bit, something different from what I've done before\". Tisdale announced to MTV that she opted to pursue a dance-pop sound on the album, which was expected to be released in 2014. In December 2013, Tisdale teased on her Twitter account about a \"special project\" related to music. She confirmed that the project was a single titled \"You're Always Here\", which was written about her late grandfather. The song was eventually released independently to digital stores that same month.\n\nTisdale became engaged to singer Christopher French in 2013, having dated for over one year; the couple wed on September 8, 2014 in a small private ceremony held in Santa Barbara, California. In 2014, she promoted the U.S. launch of Lindt \"HELLO\" chocolates by producing an episode of the online series \"It Started with HELLO\".\n\nIn December 2014, \"The Hollywood Reporter\" announced Tisdale was cast as a prostitute in the comedy \"Amateur Night\" alongside Jason Biggs. In 2014, Tisdale auditioned for TBS's workplace comedy series \"Clipped\", on which she was eventually cast in a main role as Danni. The series ran from June to August 2015, and was canceled in October after one season. That Autumn, Tisdale became the creative director of Signorelli, and launched a clothing line with the company in 2016. She will also be overseeing the creation of their spring 2017 sportswear line. Tisdale launched her \"Illuminate\" makeup line through BH Cosmetics in 2016. In 2016, Tisdale resumed work on her third studio album with her husband. The couple began posting cover versions of hit songs on Tisdale's YouTube channel, including a rendition of Elle King's \"Ex's & Oh's\" featuring Vanessa Hudgens. Tisdale released her third studio album and first in a decade, \"Symptoms\", in May 2019 with independent label Big Noise Music Group. In June 2019, Tisdale began starring in CBS sitcom \"Carol's Second Act\" across from Patricia Heaton.\nIn April 2019, Tisdale confirmed she was working on her fourth studio album to follow up \"Symptoms\". She teased a new song with a snippet on May 29, 2019. On May 4, 2020 she teased a new track titled “Lemons” which is speculated to be the lead single from the album.\n\nTisdale has said that she brings something different with every character she portrays in order to make them her own. After the completion of the \"High School Musical\" series in 2008, Tisdale was at first reluctant on accepting older roles because she felt \"you can never go backward\". She eventually began to accept more mature roles in 2012. Her first adult roles were Emma Jean, a high-priced escort in the drama series \"Sons of Anarchy\" (2012), and Jody Sanders, a mother of three children in the feature film \"Scary Movie 5\" (2013). Tisdale commented after \"Scary Movie 5\" that the role had taken her out of her comfort zone, and that she planned to continue to challenge herself in the future. While discussing her portrayal of Logan Rawlings, a lesbian, on \"Young & Hungry\" (2014), she said she likes \"to play different characters and push the envelope out of [her] own comfort level\", but confessed she had been nervous about the idea of playing a lesbian. Her main acting influences are Jake Gyllenhaal, Johnny Depp, Robin Williams and Rebel Wilson. Tisdale claims that she would like to emulate Shia LaBeouf's career because \"he did it so well\" and that she is inspired by Wilson's ability to work simultaneously as a writer, producer and actress in ABC's \"Super Fun Night\".\n\nHer acting performances have been met with praise by critics and film producers. She was named a \"scene stealer\" in \"High School Musical 2\" (2007) by Laura Fries of \"Variety\". Jennifer Frey of \"The Washington Post\" says that Tisdale dominated the film despite not being the lead character, while Andy Webster of \"The New York Times\" praised her acting style, mainly because of her \"elastic face [that] lends itself to numerous reaction shots\". John Schultz, who directed the film \"Aliens in the Attic\" (2009) in which Tisdale starred, says she is a \"big comedic actress\" and has a \"gift\" for comedy. The creator of the television series \"Hellcats\" (2010), Kevin Murphy, praised her acting skills and said Tisdale \"can hold multiple colors in the same palette.\" Her performance in \"Scary Movie 5\" (2013), however, received negative reviews. Frank Scheck of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" panned the film as whole and said Tisdale was not funny enough. and Rafer Guzman of \"Newsday\" added she did not have \"comic timing\" in the film.\n\nTisdale's music, which is predominantly considered pop, has included ballads, dance-pop, hip hop, and rock influences. Boys, heartbreak, and relationship breakups are common themes in Tisdale's songs. She defined her music career as a way to connect herself with the fans and to inspire them. She claimed that, while \"Headstrong\" (2007) allowed her to \"learn [herself] as an artist\", with her second album, \"Guilty Pleasure\" (2009), she knew exactly what she wanted to do as an artist. Tisdale has named many influences on her musical career, including Christina Aguilera, Michael Jackson, Lady Gaga, Pat Benatar, Pink, Katy Perry, Kelly Clarkson, Led Zeppelin, and AC/DC. Tisdale said that \"almost anything\" inspires her, but she is mainly inspired by female pop singers. She often co-writes the songs she records; for her debut album \"Headstrong\", she had writing credits in four songs, while she co-wrote five tracks for her album \"Guilty Pleasure\". The songs in which she has songwriting credits are often personal. In 2009, while discussing the songs she co-wrote for her second studio album, Tisdale said that \"a lot of the songs on the album [were] about survival and staying strong\" and that she wanted those songs to be \"a statement and a reflection of what [she went] through over the past year and how [she has] grown up.\" She named the song \"What If\" as the most personal song she co-wrote for \"Guilty Pleasure\". She discussed the death of her grandfather in the song \"You're Always Here\", which she wrote with her husband French.\n\nHer music has received mixed reactions by critics. Her debut album \"Headstrong\" was compared to the first works of Britney Spears and Christina Aguilera by \"Billboard\". Heather Phares of AllMusic defined Tisdale's voice as \"pleasant enough\" but not \"distinctive\" while reviewing her debut album \"Headstrong\" and added she had \"more character singing\" as her role in the \"High School Musical\" series. Phares later praised Tisdale's voice by saying her \"chirpy, slightly saccharine voice is perfect\". Her second studio album \"Guilty Pleasure\", released in 2009, achieved a 48% rating on Metacritic, which indicates \"mixed or average reviews\". Keri Masson of \"Billboard\" stated that Tisdale \"can deliver the radio-ready goods\" with her 2009 album \"Guilty Pleasure\", but criticized the album as a whole; he believed the album \"doesn't give the singer room to comfortably let loose\". Stephen Thomas Erlewine, also of AllMusic, said she is not \"convincing\" on \"Guilty Pleasure\", but praised the overall quality of the songs on the album. Margaret Wappler of the \"Los Angeles Times\" gave the album a negative review; she said the album has \"few glimmers of hope\" and went on to criticize the producers as \"not seem[ing] to have gifted Tisdale with their best work\". Despite the mixed reception by critics, the album was well received by fans; it achieved a user score of 6.5 on Metacritic, which means \"generally favorable reviews\", and was also named the seventh best album of the decade by \"Billboard\" readers in 2009.\n\nTisdale is considered a sex symbol, ranking on \"Maxim\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s Hot 100 list of sexiest women and hottest celebrities in the 2008 list (at number 10), in 2013 (at number seven), and in 2014 (at number 33). She appeared on the cover of \"Maxim\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s May 2013 issue and was in the 2011 annual \"nude issue\" for \"Allure\" in May of that year. She told \"Allure\" that \"being in this shoot was me saying, 'I'm not just the young girl everybody thinks I am. I'm actually a woman.'\" Tisdale has become a popular and active figure in social media; she has attained more than 13 million followers on Twitter and she has more than 19 million Likes on Facebook both as of May 2019. Her popularity on social media led her to appear for three weeks on \"Billboard\"'s Social 50 chart, peaking at number 18, and to win the award for \"Social Media Superstar\" at the Young Hollywood Awards in 2014. She was also named the 45th most influential woman on Twitter by \"The Huffington Post\" in 2015.\n\nTisdale has supported various charitable organizations and causes during her career. She collaborated with the Make a Wish Foundation in 2008 by visiting sick children in hospitals and helping to raise funds for the organization. Tisdale is also a supporter of Habitat for Humanity, a charity devoted to building homes for people in need. She was scheduled to perform on \"Idol Gives Back 2008\", along with her \"High School Musical\" co-star Vanessa Hudgens. However, they were unable to appear due to their \"High School Musical 3: Senior Year\" filming schedule; they recorded a video from the film's set to support the cause instead. She contributed to the \"A Very Special Christmas 7\" album with her rendition of Wham!'s \"Last Christmas\"; proceeds from sales benefited the Special Olympics. Tisdale was a phone operator during \"\", a charity telethon held on January 2010 to raise funds for seven non-profit organizations that carried out relief work in Haiti following the 2010 Haiti earthquake. Tisdale volunteered for the \"Get on the Bus\" charity campaign in 2011, which was hosted by the television series \"\". She helped to build a house for a family and later performed some of her songs to raise funds. In 2012, she became the face of \"Project Pink\", a campaign launched by Puma SE to raise money for the research of breast cancer treatments. As part of the campaign, she visited Los Angeles' BEST After School Enrichment Program at Pacoima Charter School in California and presented each child that attended with shoes, clothes, and gift cards. In 2013, Tisdale recorded her song titled \"You're Always Here\" and later released it to digital stores as a charity single. During an interview with \"On Air with Ryan Seacrest\", she confirmed that 30 percent of the proceeds of the song would go to St. Jude Children's Research Hospital.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2190439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190439", "title": "Circus Lupus", "text": "Circus Lupus\n\nCircus Lupus was a post-hardcore band based in the area of Washington, DC, U.S. The band originally formed in Madison where one-time Ignition and Soul Side bassist Chris Thomson met guitarist Chris Hamley and drummer Arika Casebolt while attending school. The name \"Circus Lupus\" comes from an SCTV sketch about \"Circus Lupus, the Circus of Wolves,\" a mock TV commercial for an entirely wolf-filled traveling circus, with graphics of wolves on trapeze swings and other circus apparati. Reg Shrader initially played bass with the band. He was replaced by Seth Lorinczi as the band was making its transition from Madison to Washington, DC.\n\nThe band released two full length albums and a seven-inch single on Dischord Records. The \"Super Genius\" LP (DIS63) was released in 1992, followed by the \"Pop Man\" b/w \"Pressure Point\" single (DIS73; produced by Joan Jett) and \"Solid Brass\" LP (DIS79) in 1993. The band has also released material on the Cubist Production record label. Members of the band have participated in other projects, including work released on Chicago-based label Southern Records. One of these follow-up bands was Antimony, featuring Arika Casebolt on drums, Seth Lorinczi on bass and Chris Hamley on guitar and vocals. They released a full-length album in 1995 on Double Deuce Records out of New York. Chris Thomson and Chris Hamley later reunited to form the Dischord and Simple Machines Records band Monorchid. Seth Lorinczi moved to San Francisco in the 2000s, creating the band The Quails with Jen Smith and Julianna Bright and releasing three CDs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2190440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190440", "title": "Fernando Suarez del Solar", "text": "Fernando Suarez del Solar\n\nFernando Suarez Del Solar.\n\nHe was born in a small town called \"Tenango del Aire\" in the state of Mexico, Mexico on December 8, 1955.\n\nNatural father of Jesús Alberto Suarez del Solar Navarro, died in Iraq on March 27, 2003, being the first soldier of Mexican origin and the 5 Hispanic soldier killed in the invasion of Iraq.\n\nHe studied his primary studies at the Lasallista \"Benavente\" school in the city of Puebla, Mexico. Later he entered the \"Latin American Military University\" where he studied in a military environment his secondary studies. He enters the High School \"Colegio de Bachilleres\" in Mexico City.\n\nOn the death of his father, he moved to the city of Tijuana, Mexico, where he received the nomination for \"The medal of civic merit\" as the \"Man of the year\" in 1995 for his work on behalf of poor communities, as well as other recognitions. in the field of social justice work.\n\nIn 1995 he moved to San Diego CA. For his son Jesús Alberto to enter High School and thus be able to enter the body of the US Marines. Thus supporting her son's dream of joining the DEA and fighting drug trafficking.\n\nFollowing the death of his son in Iraq on March 27, 2003, Fernando undertook an awareness campaign among young people to educate them against violence and militarism.\n\nHe travels to Iraq in December 2003, where he visits the exact place where his son dies from an American “Cluster Bomb”, he collects dirt covered in his blood, and in February 2004 he plants a tree in the Kit Karson park of the city from Escondido, using that land from Iraq, Mexico and the USA, as a symbol of new life and brotherhood, it was called the \"Tree of Peace\"\n\nHe returns to Iraq / Jordan in December 2004 carrying more than $ 650,000.00 dollars, thanks to the collaboration of various organizations and the general public, to buy medicines for Iraq's children's hospitals.\n\nIn March 2006, in commemoration of the anniversary of the death of his son, he made the \"Walk for Peace\" from Tijuana to San Francisco CA, walking more than 240 miles, inspired by Gandi.\n\nAnd in 2007, for the same reasons, he performs the 48-hour \"Fast for Peace\" sitting at the gates of the Federal Building in San Diego, this being a call for Peace and for the Troops to return home.\n\nHe has received several recognitions for his activity in favor of peace and education among them:\n\nAnnual Peace Award from War Resisters League in March 2003.\n\n\"Peace and justice Award\" From \"The Office of the Americas in June 2004.\n\nCertificate of Special Congressional Recognition by Barbara Lee Member of Congress in 2004\n\n\"Certificate of Recognition\" Awarded by Fabian Nuñez Speaker of Assembly December 2004\n\nCalifornia Legislative Assembly Certificate of Recognition by Cindy Montanez in March 2006.\n\n\"Gandhi Nonviolence Award\" By Gandhi Institute for Nonviolence October 2005.\n\nCommendation from Lieutenant Governor Cruz M. Bustamante Oct. 2006 \"Activist of the Year\" By Activist San Diego January 2005.\n\nInternational Peace and Justice Advocate by NCCPJ May 2005\n\nCertificate of Recognition By American Friends Service Committee Oct 2006\n\nLocal Hero of the Year awarded by Union Bank of California and KPBS Television Sep 2007\n\nAmong others.\n\nLikewise, Mr. Suarez del Solar, has traveled through various countries such as Japan, Germany, Rome, Spain, Mexico, Coilombia Venezuela, Jordan, Iraq, speaking in schools and public forums carrying a message of brotherhood among peoples and inviting youths not to take the path of violence as a solution to conflicts.\n\nWithin the United States, he has visited more than 500 schools, where he speaks in assemblies or in small groups of students, about his experiences with his son and his trips to Iraq, inviting them to make more efforts to continue their higher education outside of any type of violence.\n\nHe has also participated in international anti-war tribunals in Italy, Spain, Venezuela, and within the United States.\n\nCurrently Mr. Suarez del Solar spends his time going to schools, either inside or outside of them to talk to young people and their families, about the importance of continuing education and the different options outside of militarism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2190442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190442", "title": "Gary Cohen", "text": "Gary Cohen\n\nGary Cohen (born April 29, 1958) is an American sportscaster, best known as a radio and television play-by-play announcer for the New York Mets of Major League Baseball.\n\nCohen currently calls Mets broadcasts for SportsNet New York and WPIX and Seton Hall basketball games on WNYM. He is known for his baritone voice and his signature calls, most notably \"It’s outta here!\" for when a player hits a home run.\n\nCohen graduated with a political science degree in 1981 from Columbia University, where he began his broadcasting career with WKCR Sports. While at Columbia, he announced soccer games with future presidential adviser and Good Morning America host George Stephanopoulos.\n\nPrior to joining the Mets' broadcast team in , Cohen worked as the voice of the minor league Spartanburg Spinners (1983–1984), Durham Bulls (1986), and Pawtucket Red Sox (1987–1988). He also called ice hockey and basketball games for Providence College from 1988 to 1989, and football for Brown University in 1987. Along with his work with the Mets, Cohen has also called postseason MLB games for ESPN Radio and CBS Radio.\n\nIn addition to his baseball duties, Cohen has called men's college basketball games for many years, starting with his duties with St. John's on WFAN, for which he broadcast from 1995 to 2002. Following WFAN's loss of the radio rights to St. John's games, Cohen began broadcasting Seton Hall games, which he continues to do to this day. He also served as a backup announcer on New York Rangers radio broadcasts, called Olympic hockey at the 1992, 1994, and 1998 Winter Olympics, and NCAA tournament games for Westwood One on multiple occasions.\n\nCohen has called many notable moments in Mets history, such as Todd Pratt's walk-off home run in Game 4 of the 1999 NLDS that won the Mets the series, Robin Ventura's \"grand slam single\" in Game 5 of the 1999 NLCS, Benny Agbayani's walk off home run in Game 3 of the 2000 NLDS, the Mets winning the 2000 NLCS to advance to the World Series, Endy Chavez's home run robbing catch in Game 7 of the 2006 NLCS, Johan Santana's no-hitter on June 1, 2012, the first in Mets history, Wilmer Flores' walk-off home run against the Washington Nationals on July 31, 2015, the Mets' win against the Cincinnati Reds on September 26, 2015 to clinch the National League East, Bartolo Colón's first Major League Baseball home run on May 7, 2016, at which he became the oldest MLB player in history to hit his first home run, Asdrúbal Cabrera winning an extra inning game for the Mets to keep them in an eventually successful playoff run, and Todd Frazier's ninth inning three run homer to tie the game in a successful ninth inning rally against the Washington Nationals on August 9, 2019.\n\nCohen's signature radio phrases, which he has carried over to television, include:\nHis trademark opening for 1st pitch thrown is *\"\"[Player Name] takes first pitch (or swings at, or hits) and we're under way\"\" - Starts every game this way.\n\nHe is known for his vivid and succinct description of the game action, his smooth baritone voice, corny joking with former broadcast partner Howie Rose, and his sometimes biting, but always well-informed baseball commentary. In , Cohen became the Mets' lead radio voice following the retirement of Bob Murphy.\n\nIn October 2006, during the Mets' postseason run, Cohen returned to the WFAN booth with Rose and newcomer Tom McCarthy for a couple of innings each game; he was behind the microphone for Endy Chávez's miraculous catch in Game 7 of the NLCS which the Mets lost.\n\nIt was announced on November 9, 2005, that Cohen would become the play-by-play announcer for the new Mets cable television network, SportsNet New York (SNY). As part of the agreement, Cohen also calls about 25 Mets games per year on WPIX along with analysts (and former Mets) Ron Darling and Keith Hernandez.\n\nOn June 1, 2012, Cohen called the first no-hitter in Mets history, thrown by Johan Santana.\n\nOn July 31, 2015, two days after shortstop Wilmer Flores was nearly traded to the Brewers for Carlos Gómez, Flores hit a dramatic walk-off home run in the 12th inning against the first place Nationals.\nThat game, and home run, were both widely considered to be the turning point of the 2015 season for the Mets as they went on to win their first National League East title since 2006. The Nationals, meanwhile, collapsed and finished in second place, 7 games behind New York.\n\nOn September 26, 2015, Cohen called the Mets' 10-2 win against the Cincinnati Reds where the Mets clinched the National League East for the first time since 2006. \nOn May 7, 2016, Cohen called Bartolo Colón's first Major League home run to become the oldest player in MLB history to hit his first Major League home run.\n\nColón's previous at-bats with the Mets were extremely entertaining for the fans and announcers alike. He would regularly receive standing ovations from the fans in attendance when his name was announced to bat over the loud speaker. Whenever he swung the bat, he would swing with such force that his batting helmet would often fly off in the process. Finally, 17 days before his 43rd birthday, he hit his 1st Major League home run.\n\nHe is married to Lynn Cohen, and lives in Connecticut. He has five children.\n\n"}
{"id": "2190446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190446", "title": "Ferenc Fricsay", "text": "Ferenc Fricsay\n\nFerenc Fricsay (; 9 August 1914 – 20 February 1963) was a Hungarian conductor. From 1960 until his death, he was an Austrian citizen.\n\nFricsay was born in Budapest in 1914 and studied music under Béla Bartók, Zoltán Kodály, Ernst von Dohnányi, and Leó Weiner. With these and other faculty at the Budapest Academy of Music he studied piano, violin, clarinet, trombone, percussion, composition and conducting. Fricsay made his first appearance as a conductor at age 15, substituting for his father at the podium of the Young Musicians Orchestra of Budapest. In 1930, at the age of 16, he succeeded his father as conductor of the Young Musicians Orchestra.\n\nOn graduating in 1933, Fricsay became repetiteur for the chorus of the Budapest Opera; then, from 1933 to 1943, he was music director of the Szeged Philharmonic Orchestra in the third largest city in Hungary; he also served as director of its military band from 1933. In 1942, he was court-martialed by the government of Miklós Horthy for wanting to employ Jewish musicians, and for having \"Jewish blood\" himself (according to reliable reports, his mother was Jewish). When the Nazis occupied Hungary in 1944, the chief editor of the Szeged daily newspaper warned Fricsay that the Gestapo planned to arrest him; he and his wife, Marta (\"née\" Telbisz) and three children Marta, Ferenc and Andras, avoided this fate by going underground in Budapest.\n\nIn 1945, secret emissaries offered him the co-directorship of the Metropolitan Orchestra of Budapest (later Budapest Philharmonic Orchestra); he also became principal conductor of the Budapest Opera. He conducted opera at the Vienna Volksoper and at the Salzburg Festival in the late 1940s, including world premieres in Salzburg of operas by Gottfried von Einem (\"Danton's Tod\" in 1947) and by Frank Martin (\"Zaubertrank\" in 1948). The enthusiastic reception of Fricsay's work on this international stage led to his being appointed Chief Conductor of the Berlin RIAS Symphony Orchestra and General Music Director of the Deutsche Oper Berlin, from 1949–1952, performing then in the Theater des Westens. He made his United Kingdom debut at the 1950 Edinburgh Festival, leading the Glyndebourne Opera in Mozart's Le Nozze di Figaro. He made his Buenos Aires debut that year with Carmina Burana. In 1951 he made his debuts in Italy and with the Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra in Amsterdam. In 1953 he made his debuts in Paris, Milan, Lucerne, and the US, where he conducted the Boston Symphony Orchestra and San Francisco Symphony. He was appointed musical director of the Houston Symphony in 1954, but resigned halfway through the season over \"disagreements on musical policy.\" The true reason involved US tax policy. He discovered that under the Internal Revenue Code he would have to declare income earned throughout the world in his US tax return as long as he spent more than 6 months residing in the United States. His contract with the Houston Symphony would have resulted in having his income becoming subject to prohibitive US tax rates. When he became aware of this problem he abruptly left Houston for Switzerland. He made his debut with the Israel Philharmonic in 1954. He spent much of his time from the 1950s onward in Germany as music director of the Bavarian State Opera (1956–1958) and as conductor of the RIAS Symphony Orchestra, the Deutsche Oper Berlin and the Berlin Philharmonic. Also in 1956, he was appointed General Music Director of the Munich Court Opera, a position he held until 1958.\n\nFricsay gave his last concert on 7 December 1961 in London where he conducted the London Philharmonic Orchestra in Beethoven's \"Symphony No. 7\". He suffered from repeated illnesses throughout his life and finally succumbed to cancer of the stomach on 20 February 1963 at the age of 48 in Basel, Switzerland.\n\nFricsay was known for his interpretations of the music of Mozart and Beethoven, as well as that of his teachers Béla Bartók and Zoltán Kodály. His 1958 recording of Beethoven's \"Symphony No. 9\" is featured in the movie \"A Clockwork Orange\". He conducted without a baton, according to the entry in \"New Grove,\" but \"confounded the adverse critics of this technique by the extreme clarity and precision of his performances,\" to which it also ascribes \"a dynamic spirit\" and \"vividness of character in familiar classics.\"\n\nFrom the 1950s until his death, he recorded for the Deutsche Grammophon record label. He led the inauguration of the rebuilt Deutsche Oper Berlin with a performance of \"Don Giovanni\" on September 24, 1961. A video of this performance has been issued on DVD.\n\n"}
{"id": "2190462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190462", "title": "Carolina Morace", "text": "Carolina Morace\n\nCarolina Morace (; born 5 February 1964) is a former Italian football player who played as a striker. She played for the Italian national team and for various clubs in women's Serie A. She was the top scorer in Serie A in the 1984–85 season, and for 11 consecutive years from 1987–88 to 1997–98. She is also a registered Lawyer.\n\nAfter retiring as a player, she began a managing career with Lazio. She then managed the Italian women's national team from 2000 to 2005, and the Canadian national women's team from 2009 to 2011. In 2014, she was the first woman to be inducted into the Italian Football Hall of Fame.\n\nBorn in Venice, Morace debuted for the Italian women's national team in 1978, against Yugoslavia, at the age of 14. During her career, she made 153 appearances for Italy, scoring 105 goals. While playing in the Italian national women's league, she scored more than 550 goals. She took part in six European Championships as well as the inaugural FIFA Women's World Cup China 1991, where she scored four goals, including recording the first ever hat-trick to be scored at a World Cup in their 5–0 win against Chinese Taipei.\n\nAs a curtain-raiser to the 1990 FA Charity Shield, Italy played the England women's national football team at Wembley Stadium. Morace scored all four goals in England's 4–1 defeat and was featured on the front page of the following day's \"La Gazzetta dello Sport\", a record that has never been beaten by a male or female player since.\n\nMorace holds a UEFA PRO License and is probably best known for having been the first woman to coach a professional men's football team, Viterbese of Italian Serie C1, a post she took in June 1999. She eventually resigned from her position after only two matches as the President interfered with management of the technical staff.\n\nFor 5 years from 2000–2005, she was head coach for Italian women's national team, qualifying twice for the European Championships. In 2008–2009 Morace accepted a role as the head coach of a Men's Parliamentary Team preparing them for competition.\n\nIn February 2009 she was announced as the new head coach of the Canadian national women's team. Under her guidance, Canada won the 2010 CONCACAF, 2010 and 2011 Cyprus Cups and 2010 Four Nations Tournament. At the 2011 FIFA Women's World Cup the team's top goal scorer Christine Sinclair broke her nose in the opening match and subsequently the team did not progress to the next round as expected. In the first ever FIFA Physical Analysis at a Women's World Cup, Canada excelled in the distances covered at high speed in comparison to other teams reflecting in their quick tempo, short passing and high pressing game. Unexpectedly, she formally announced her resignation as the coach of the Canadian national women's team on Friday 22 July 2011 due to future budget disputes. Over her 2.5 years in charge Morace improved Canada's FIFA ranking from 11th to 6th position in the World.\n\nFrom 2011 Carolina Morace has been leading and conducting FIFA Coaching Courses around the world as a FIFA Ambassador and Instructor. Her experience as the CEO of Juventus Academy Roma prompted her to begin her own Football Academy, Pro Soccer Coaching.\n\nOn 17 September 2015 it was announced that Morace had been appointed technical director of a Men's National Premier League Club Floreat Athena FC in Western Australia.\n\nIn December 2016 she was appointed Head Coach of her third National Team Trinidad and Tobago Women's National Team. In 2017 she and her team terminated the contract because of payment issues and later won their case with Court of Arbitration for Sport and FIFA.\n\nIn 2018 Morace returned to Italy as she became the first coach of A.C. Milan Women in Serie A finishing third in their inaugural season and the only team to defeat Juventus 3-0.\n\nMorace currently is the only female to commentate tactically on the Men's Serie A for Sky Sport in Italy.\n\nMorace gained a law degree in 1996 and practises at a legal studio in Rome.\n\nAfter featuring for 13 years on Italian television, Morace became a celebrity in Italy. Her role as a football commentator and analyst for the Men's Serie A Professional League saw her work across channels La7, Telemontecarlo, Rai 1 and Rai International and write weekly articles for La Gazzetta Dello Sport.\n\nIn 2015 Morace featured in a comic book as a coach for a Professional Primavera football squad called \"Elfio e i Satanelli!\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2190467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190467", "title": "Super Genius (album)", "text": "Super Genius (album)\n\nSuper Genius is a studio album released by the band Circus Lupus in 1992. The CD was re-released by Dischord Records in Washington DC in 2003. The album was described as \"more strange and threatening\", and a \"ricocheting pinball of wailing vocals, snaking riffs that block and tackle\". Team Rock noted it for having a \"scuzzy, grungy undercurrent\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2190473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190473", "title": "J. Parnell Thomas", "text": "J. Parnell Thomas\n\nJohn Parnell Thomas (January 16, 1895 – November 19, 1970) was a stockbroker and politician. He was elected to seven terms as a U.S. Representative from New Jersey as a Republican. He was later a convicted criminal who served nine months in federal prison for corruption.\n\nBorn as John Parnell Feeney Jr. in Jersey City, New Jersey, he changed his name in 1919 to John Parnell Thomas. Raised Catholic, he later became an Episcopalian.\n\nAfter graduating from high school, he studied at the University of Pennsylvania. When the United States entered World War I in 1917, he served overseas with the United States Army. Following his discharge from the military in 1919, Thomas worked in the investment securities and insurance business in New York City for the next eighteen years.\n\nHe entered Allendale, New Jersey, municipal politics in 1925 and was elected councilman and then Mayor of Allendale, New Jersey from 1926 to 1930. He was elected to a two-year term to the New Jersey General Assembly in 1935. In 1936 Thomas was elected to the United States House of Representatives as a Republican Party Representative from New Jersey's 7th congressional district, filling the vacancy left by the death of Randolph Perkins. He would be re-elected six times.\n\nAs a U.S. Congressman, Thomas was a staunch conservative opponent of President Franklin D. Roosevelt and his New Deal, claiming the President's legislative agenda had \"sabotaged the capitalist system.\" Thomas opposed government support for the Federal Theatre Project declaring that \"practically every play presented under the auspices of the Project is sheer propaganda for Communism or the New Deal.\"\n\nIn 1949 Thomas called the U.S. Secretary of Defense, James Forrestal, \"the most dangerous man in America\" and claimed that if Forrestal were not removed from office he would \"cause another world war.\" \n\nIn the post-war period, Thomas called for a rapid demobilization of the American military. In 1946, he invited General Dwight Eisenhower to his office to discuss the issue. When he arrived, the general was faced with a table surrounded by soldier's wives, many holding babies. News photographers took photos of the furious Eisenhower.\n\nAfter the Republican Party gained control of the 80th Congress in the November 1946 elections, Thomas was appointed chairman of the House Committee on Un-American Activities (HUAC)–during that period, also called the \"Thomas Committee.\" In May 1947, Thomas traveled to Hollywood to meet with film industry executives with a view to exposing what he believed was Communist infiltration of motion pictures content by members of the Screen Writers Guild. Returning to Washington, D.C., he shifted the focus of the committee to what he called the \"subversives\" working in the film business.\n\nUnder Thomas, in October 1947, HUAC summoned suspected Communists to appear for questioning. These summonses led to the conviction and imprisonment for contempt of Congress of the \"Hollywood Ten\" who had refused to answer the Committee's questions, citing the First Amendment.\n\nProminent American columnists Jack Anderson and Drew Pearson were critical of Thomas and his committee's methods.\n\nRumors about corrupt practices on the part of Thomas were confirmed when his secretary, Helen Campbell, sent documents to Pearson which he used to expose Thomas' corruption in an August 4, 1948, newspaper article. The fraud had begun on New Year's Day of 1940, when Thomas placed Campbell's niece, Myra Midkiff, and Campbell's maid, Arnette Minor on his payroll as clerks. Midkiff earned roughly $1,200 a year and was to kick back her entire salary to the Congressman. Through this practice, he would also evade a tax bracket increase. The arrangement lasted for four years. As a result, Thomas and Campbell were summoned to answer to charges of salary fraud before a grand jury.\n\nThomas refused to answer questions, citing his Fifth Amendment rights, the most common stance for which he had criticized accused Communists. Indicted, Thomas was tried and convicted of fraud, fined and given an 18-month prison sentence. He resigned from Congress on January 2, 1950.\n\nIn an ironic twist, he was imprisoned in Danbury Prison where Lester Cole and Ring Lardner Jr., both members of the \"Hollywood Ten\" were serving time because of Thomas' inquiries into the film industry.\n\nAfter his release from prison, Thomas was an editor and publisher of three weekly newspapers in Bergen County, New Jersey. President Harry S. Truman pardoned Thomas on Christmas Eve of 1952. In 1954, Thomas tried to re-enter politics, but was defeated for the Republican Party nomination for Congress.\n\nThomas died in 1970 in St. Petersburg, Florida, aged 75, of undisclosed causes. He was cremated, and his ashes were interred in the Elmgrove Cemetery in Mystic, Connecticut.\n\nIn the 2015 film \"Trumbo\", Thomas is portrayed by James Dumont.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2190476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190476", "title": "Lepidogalaxias", "text": "Lepidogalaxias\n\nLepidogalaxias salamandroides is a species of small fish of Western Australia. It is the only member of the family Lepidogalaxiidae and genus \"Lepidogalaxias\". Common names for this fish include salamanderfish and Shannon mudminnow. Although it is not a lungfish, it resembles lungfish in several respects, including its ability to survive dry seasons by burrowing into the sand. It is on the IUCN Red List as Endangered.\n\n\"Lepidogalaxias salamandroides\" is small with females measuring up to 7 cm in length. This species has a slender, elongate and cylindrical body. The colour is brownish-green on the upper parts, silver-speckled and blotched on the sides, very pale below, and the fin membranes are transparent. The reddish eyes are fixed, but the fish is able to move its neck in any direction.\n\nThe salamaderfish spawn in winter when water levels are highest. Females produce 100-400 eggs with a diameter of 1.1-1.3mm, which hatch into bottom-feeder larvae 5.5mm long. Larvae and juveniles grow rapidly to gain fat stores to survive the summer drought period. Individuals reach up to 5 years of age.\n\nThe salamanderfish is carnivorous, mainly feeding on aquatic insect larvae.\n\nIt has a limited distribution in acidic pools of water in heathland peat flats of southwest Australia, between the Blackwood and Kent Rivers. This range is across a distance of 180 kilometres, in an area of Northcliffe, they are common in this region. Its habitat is semi-permanent water, small pools and streams that may be high in tannins and acidity (pH 3.0-6.5). They experience a range of water temperatures, daily changes of 16 to 32 degrees Celsius, in pools no deeper than 0.1 metres. The species rests on the bottom of the water using elongated pelvic and rounded caudal fins. These small and shallow pools may contain a population of around 150 individuals, are generally no larger than 600 square metres, and evaporate in the dry seasons. It is also unusual for its ability to survive desiccation by burrowing into sand, a process of aestivation, when the pools it lives in periodically evaporate.\n\nThe species was first described in 1961 by Gerlof Fokko Mees. This author identified the species as belonging to the Galaxiidae, but the relationship to those species was in doubt. \"Lepidogalaxias salamandroides\" was eventually placed among the Osmeriformes as a monotypic arrangement, \"Lepidogalaxias\" (Lepidogalaxiidae), in 1991. This placement has been also challenged, but remains current. The species is contained in the class Actinopterygii, ray-finned fish, and is sometimes given the taxonomic placements as Galaxiidae of the order Salmoniformes.\n\nIt is sometimes named as the mud minnow, long-finned Galaxias, scaled galaxias, or dwarf pencilfish, however mud minnow usually refers to \"Galaxiella munda\".\n\nA further list of names refer to \"L. salamandroides\" as salamanderfish of Western Australia, West Australian salamanderfish, salamander fish, salmanderfish, and Shannon mudminnow.\n"}
{"id": "2190478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190478", "title": "List of programs broadcast by Discovery Channel", "text": "List of programs broadcast by Discovery Channel\n\nThis is a list of television programs formerly or currently broadcast by the Discovery Channel, in the United States.\n\nThe following programs are currently airing on Discovery Channel:\n\n"}
