{"id": "2261717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261717", "title": "Suzanne Pinel", "text": "Suzanne Pinel\n\nSuzanne Pinel, is a Canadian children's entertainer and former citizenship judge.\n\nUsing the stage name Marie-Soleil, Pinel performed for twenty years, using stories and songs to teach the French language to kids. She recorded albums, releasing her first disc in 1976, and starred in the television series \"Marie-Soleil\".\n\nIn 1991, Pinel was made a Member of the Order of Canada for being \"one of the great ambassadors of French-Canadian culture, this Franco-Ontarian teacher has helped promote bilingualism among both the younger and older members of the two language groups\". In 2012, she was made a member of the Order of Ontario.\n\nBefore embarking on her career as a children's entertainer, Pinel studied nursing at the University of Ottawa. The university awarded her an honorary doctorate in 2002.\n\nShe was appointed a citizenship judge in 1997 and served until 2010. Since her term expired she has occasionally served as a guest presider at citizenship ceremonies.\n\n"}
{"id": "2261722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261722", "title": "Carncastle", "text": "Carncastle\n\nCarincastle or Cairncastle (, and the English word \"castle\") is a small village and civil parish in County Antrim, Northern Ireland near the town of Larne and inland from the village of Ballygally. It had a population of 66 people in the 2001 Census. It is part of the Mid and East Antrim Borough Council area.\n\nCairncastle Presbyterian Church is one of the oldest congregations of the Presbyterian Church in Ireland. The congregation was founded in 1646, four years after the foundation year of the Presbytery of Carrickfergus, which is the oldest presbytery in Ireland. The current minister is The Reverend Fiona Forbes, who was installed in 2014.\n\nSt Patrick's Church of Ireland has been the site of a church since medieval times. The date of its foundation is not known, but it appears in the papal taxation of 1306 as Karkastell. The present parish church was completed in 1815. Repairs in the early 1860s saw the roof replaced, roughcast removed from the walls, and smaller panes inserted in the windows. The pulpit and reading desk were moved to the east end and box pews replaced. The east window in St Patrick's was made by the Mayer Company in Munich. Further changes were made to St Patrick's in the twentieth century. The octagonal spire was rebuilt in 1960 and a Sunday School extension added in 1993. In 2007, following major restoration, the church was rededicated by the Archbishop of Armagh, the Most Revd. Alan Harper. A brass plate on the church's font tells states that it was used by Dean Swift when he was in Ballynure Church during his incumbency in 1695. The churchyard has probably been used as a place of interment since the medieval period. Within the churchyard is a Spanish chestnut tree, locally known as the “Spanish Armada Tree”. According to local legend, this Spanish Sweet Chestnut tree sprouted from seeds stored within a dead sailor's pocket. Supposedly, the 16th-century Spanish sailor buried beneath it had been carrying chestnuts with him while on his maritime journey, likely to ward off scurvy. The sailor was part of the Spanish Armada. Unfortunately for him and the rest of his crew, gales whipped the waves into a furious frenzy, blowing their ship off course and wrecking it near Northern Ireland. One sailor's body washed up on the shores of Ballygally in 1588, where kind locals discovered the corpse and buried it in an unmarked grave at St Patrick's Church of Ireland. But his grave didn't remain unmarked for long. Soon, a sapling sprouted from the wet earth. It somehow managed to survive, despite the strong winds that so often battered the village. Now dubbed the Armada Tree, it's viewed as an unlikely, unexpected transplant from the Spanish Armada. Scientists who analyzed the tree have dated it to the 16th century, adding some credence to its legendary origin story.\n\nKnockdhu () is a Bronze Age promontory fort and settlement situated approximately one mile to the west of Cairncastle. The site consists of a set of three banks and ditches, Bronze Age roundhouses, and a probable gatehouse. It was excavated for the first time in 2008 for a \"Time Team\" episode that was first broadcast on 18 January 2009.\n\nIn the 21st century, Cairncastle's profile was raised due to the filming of HBO's fantasy series \"Game of Thrones\". Season One used the mountains above Cairncastle for the location where Ned Stark executed Will, the deserter from the Night's Watch. This was at Knock Dhu, a basalt escarpment above the village.\n\nOne of the oldest Protestant marching bands in Northern Ireland. having been formed around 1855–1859. The band hold their practice sessions in Cairncastle but the majority of their members come from the nearby town of Larne.\n\nOne of the features of the small village is a small traditional pub called the Meeting House. It is also often referred to as Mattie Moore's, who was the former owner and operator of the pub during its early days.\n\n\nGovernment\nTime Team\n"}
{"id": "2261723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261723", "title": "Richard Onslow, 1st Baron Onslow", "text": "Richard Onslow, 1st Baron Onslow\n\nRichard Onslow, 1st Baron Onslow PC (23 June 1654 – 5 December 1717), known as Sir Richard Onslow, 2nd Baronet from 1688 until 1716, was a British Whig politician who sat in the English and British House of Commons from 1679 to 1715. He was Speaker of the House of Commons from 1708 to 1710 and Chancellor of the Exchequer from 1714 to 1715. Onslow was a very unpopular figure amongst members of both political parties, particularly during his time as Speaker. He was extremely pedantic and showed an absolute devotion to principle, as a result he was given the nickname \"Stiff Dick\".\n\nOnslow's father, Arthur, was a politician, as was his maternal grandfather Thomas Foote, who had served as the Lord Mayor of London in 1649. He was born in Surrey and matriculated at St Edmund Hall, Oxford on 7 June 1671, before being called to the Inner Temple. He entered Parliament as the Member for Guildford in 1679 before he could be called to the bar. One of Onslow's first actions as a member of Parliament was to support the Exclusion Bill, which aimed, unsuccessfully, to deny the Catholic James II of England the British throne. He was re-elected in 1685. He also served as a Lord of the Admiralty from 1690 to 1693.\n\nOnslow was an active back-bencher during his early years in Parliament, and his increasing notoriety as a moderate Whig led to him being nominated for the position of Speaker in 1700 when the member for Surrey. He was unsuccessful in this bid, losing out to the Tory candidate, Robert Harley. However, Onslow managed to attain the position of Speaker seven years later, in 1708. He proved to be a poor Speaker as he made no effort whatsoever to show any kind of neutrality, a fact which upset all but the most fervent Whigs. Onslow's pedantry as Speaker also enhanced his unpopularity. The most famous incident during his Speakership came during the trial of the preacher Dr. Henry Sacheverell, in which Onslow played a large part. When Onslow took the Commons to the House of Lords to hear their judgment on the case he challenged Black Rod on a trifling point of privilege, delaying the proceedings somewhat, which infuriated almost everyone in attendance. Onslow's unpopularity by this point was such that he failed to retain his seat in the 1710 election. In order to remain in the Commons he was forced to sit instead for the rotten borough of St Mawes.\n\nOnslow regained much of his political favour four years later, now restored as the member for Surrey. Upon the death of Queen Anne in 1714 Onslow was a vocal advocate of a Protestant successor, in return for his support Onslow was rewarded by being named as Chancellor of the Exchequer, a position he held for around a year before resigning. He became Father of the House in 1713, and was created Baron Onslow on 19 July 1716.\n\nHe served as Lord Lieutenant of Surrey from 1716 until his death the following year. He had married Elizabeth, the daughter and heiress of Sir Henry Tulse, Lord Mayor of London, with whom he had two sons and two daughters. He was succeeded by his son Thomas. His nephew Arthur Onslow later became a long-serving Speaker himself.\n"}
{"id": "2261732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261732", "title": "P. A. Backer", "text": "P. A. Backer\n\nP. A. Backer (; 1940 – 22 November 1993) was one of the new-wave Malayalam film directors of the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nBacker was born in 1940 to Ahamed Musliar and Fathima of Kanippayyoor near Kunnamkulam in Trichur, Kingdom of Cochin (now part of Kerala state, India). While still a student, Backer worked as a journalist for \"Kuttikal\" and \"Poomottukal\". He then worked as an assistant to director Ramu Kariat (1960). He made his debut as a producer in 1970 with \"Olavum Theeravum\" which won the state awards for the best film and best cinematography.\n\nHe turned director in 1975 with \"Kabani Nadi Chuvannappol\" which won for him the State award for best director. \"Kabani Nadi Chuvannappol\" (\"When the River Kabani Turned Red\"), a bold movie about a leftist political activist, was released during the Indian Emergency. Some other notable movies by Backer are \"Manimuzhakkam\" (\"Peal of Bells\"), \"Chuvanna Vithukal\" (\"Red Seeds\"/\"Seeds of revolution\"), \"Sree Narayana Guru\" and \"Sanghaganam\" (\"Chorus\"). \"Manimuzhakkam\", based on the novel \"Murippadukal\" by Sarah Thomas, won the National Film Award for Best Regional Film and the Kerala State Film Award for Best Film. \"Sree Narayana Guru\" won the Nargis Dutt Award for Best Feature Film on National Integration. His last film as a director was \"Innaleyude Baaki\" (\"The Balance of Yesterday\"; 1988).\n\nHe died on 22 November 1993, aged 53, at his residence in Trivandrum. He was survived by his wife Anita Backer.\n\nBacker directed the following films: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2261755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261755", "title": "List of Beyblade characters", "text": "List of Beyblade characters\n\nThis list includes characters from the original Beyblade series.\n\nThe Bladebreakers, known in Japan as BBA Team Yoyo are a team comprising the main protagonists of the first three \"Beyblade\" series. The team includes Tyson Granger, Kai Hiwatari, Max Tate, Ray Kon, Kenny, Daichi, Hilary Tachibana, Tyson's elder brother Hiro Granger as well as Xander. During \"G-Revolution\", the team undergoes two new name changes: the BBA Revolution, and then later G-Revolutions.\n\nBit-Beast: Dragoon\nUsed: Spin Dragoon → Dragoon S (Storm) → Dragoon F (Fantom) → Dragoon V (Victory) → Dragoon V2 → Dragoon G (Galaxy) → Dragoon GT (Galaxy Turbo) → Dragoon MS (Metal Storm) → Dragoon MS Ultimate Version\n\n, is the main character of \"Beyblade\". His trademark features are his wing-like bangs, his small mullet, his brown eyes, and the baseball cap he always wears backwards. His father is an archaeologist who is usually away on business, and his mother died at an early age. Tyson's older brother, Hiro, also not doing well closely with their love for father, leaving Tyson to live with his grandfather; his lone adult figure.\n\nInitially, Tyson enjoys Beyblading with his close friends for fun, but through the encounters of strong rivals such as Kai, Ray and Max, he enters the Japanese preliminary tournament and goes on to compete at the World Championships, experiencing battles with formidable opponents, and growing as a Blader and a person. At the final stage of the Championships, the overwhelming power of his opponent, the Demolition Boys' Tala, sinks both Bladers into a world of despair that is encapsulated in ice. Tyson manages to pull off the win as the only Blader who can smile and just enjoy the game; an unappreciated talent.\n\nIn \"Beyblade V-Force\", Tyson's Dragoon Bit-Beast is targeted by a group of scientists known as \"Psykick\" and the mysterious Beyblade team, the Saint Shields. The pressure causes the World Champion to enter a slump; he fails to call out Dragoon numerous times and struggles with mastering the new MG Core system. It is only after rigorous training and facing strong opponents such as Kane, Ozuma, and Zeo that Tyson overcomes this.\n\nIn \"Beyblade G-Revolution\", The Bladebreakers do not compete in the World Championships as Tyson's team falls apart; one after another joining rival teams for a chance to challenge Tyson themselves. This forces Tyson to find a new partner in a young, wild Blader named Daichi, who Tyson can't seem to stop fighting with. Furthermore, the pressures of being a two-time champion take an emotional toll on him, especially when his brother and coach, Hiro, benches him for the match against the Blitzkrieg Boys. But after much encouragement and criticism from his old team members and learning to trust Daichi, Tyson pulls off a third consecutive win for the title of World Champion. Soon after, the BEGA League (Boris' Team) is set up, and Tyson believes he can begin a professional Beyblading career, but not after learning the mastermind behind the league is Boris Balkov, and witnessing Tala's brutal defeat against BEGA ace Garland. Tyson challenges Boris to a Justice 5 match, which he agrees to. However, without a fifth member in play, Tyson attempts to battle two opponents himself until Kai re-emerges. He takes on Garland's Apollon and engages in the fierce tiebreaker against Brooklyn and his Zeus, both times achieving stunning victories and displaying an inspiring Beyblade spirit to all of BEGA.\n\nAt the end of the manga he has a son named Makoto Kinomilla (Makoto Granger).\n\nBit-Beast: Dranzer \n\nBeyblades Used: Dranzer S (Spiral) → Dranzer F (Flame) → Black Dranzer → Dranzer V (Volcano) → Dranzer V2 → Dranzer G (Gigs) → Dranzer GT (Gigs Turbo) → Dranzer MS (Metal Spiral)\n\nKai's bit beast is one of the 4 sacred bit beasts\n\n, is Takao's fated rival, and through many hardships and Beyblading, they eventually develop a strong friendship and respect for each other. His trademark features are his wing-like bangs, his two-tone hair with gray in the front and black in the back, and his shark fin face paint. Kai has a tendency to be cold towards others, but his discipline has allowed him to master Beyblading at the highest level. He is never too keen on teamwork or helping others, a sharp contrast with Takao's friendly-rooted personality. He is the eldest of the group and probably has the longest beyblade in history.\n\nKai grew up in the Balkov Abbey in Russia, which was owned by his grandfather Voltaire, president of the military enterprise Biovolt. He subsequently lost his memories of the time and somehow became the leader of a dangerous Beyblade street gang in Japan, the Blade Sharks. During the Japanese qualifiers for the BBA Beyblade World Championship, Kai loses the final match to Takao and joins the Blade Breakers with him, Max and Rei. Kai doesn't face any relevant battles for much of the next episodes, until the team meets the Majestics, formed by Europe's top beybladers. Kai is challenged and defeated by Johnny, from Scotland, but later defeats him in a rematch after reluctantly accepting advice from his team mates. In Russia, before the finals, he returns to the Abbey and recovers his memories. Tempted by the power of Black Dranzer, he returns to his grandfather's side and manages to single-handely defeat the All Starz and most of the White Tigers, capturing all of their bit beasts in the process. It was only after Takao's use of the original Dranzer against Kai at Lake Baikal battle that pitched him against all Blade Breakers was he able to reconcile with the Blade Breakers. In the finals, Kai loses against Spencer and has Dranzer captured, but he was proud to no longer be Voltaire's puppet. After Takao defeats Yuri in the final match, he recovers Dranzer.\n\nIn \"Beyblade V-Force\", Kai temporarily enrolls into the prestigious Whitney Prep School, where he meets Wyatt Smithright, an underclassman and long-time admirer of Kai. Kai's passion for Beyblading has died down, but after an encounter with the skilled Dunga from the Saint Shields, he is reinvigorated. Wyatt is later utilized by Team Psykick in an attempt to steal Dranzer, but succumbs to his beyblade's powers and dies (he just ends up severely crippled in the American version). During the final challenge against the enterprise, Kai experiences hallucinations during his battle with Goki, but encouragement from his friends and Goki's loud boasting gave Kai the strength to pull of a splendid victory for his friend. In the World Championship semi-finals, Kai has a fierce battle against main antagonist Zeo, but loses it and Dranzer is captured again, only to retrieve it after Zeo's defeat to Takao in the final episode.\n\nIn \"Beyblade G-Revolution\", Kai is undecided on which path he should choose during the World Championships. After seeing Max and Ray defect the Blade Breakers, he ultimately decides to enter the tournament as a member of the Blitzkrieg Boys (formerly named Demolition Boys in season 1). With his usual high skill level, Kai defeats all his opponents in the first stage, except when going up against BBA Revolution - Kai intentionally loses his match against Daichi, disappointed that he would not be facing Takao. He finally has his long-awaited rematch with the former team mate in the final rounds, but once again comes up short against his oldest rival. In the second half of the season, when the BEGA League accepts Takao's challenge for a Justice 5 match with the future of beyblading at stake, Kai sides with BEGA in an attempt to challenge Takao again. However, his hopes are dashed after a crushing qualifier defeat by BEGA's prodigy, Brooklyn, which leaves Kai a broken man. His fighting spirit was put to the test by F-Dynasty's coach, Romero, who wanted Kai to master his new, much stronger Dranzer MS. Kai manages to recover and compete as the fifth member of G-Revolutions. Once again, he faces off against Brooklyn and has him suffer his very first beyblade defeat, albeit at the cost of Dranzer itself, which explodes in pieces after the match. Kai returns for Takao's and Brooklyn's final battle to give words of encouragement. In the very final scene of the season (not counting an original-version-exclusive extended farewell collection of images of all relevant characters from the three seasons), he starts a battle with Takao.\n\nAt the end of the Beyblade manga he has a son named Gou.\n\nVoiced by: Ai Orikasa (Japanese); Gage Knox (English)\n\nMax Tate is a happy, good-natured kid who always sees the best in everything and everyone. He is like a brother to Tyson and loves to laugh at whatever life throws at him. Max is a highly skilled beyblader specializing in a defensive style. He lives with his dad, who runs a local hobby shop specializing in beyblades. His mother, Judy, is a research scientist at a top-secret BBA facility and coaches the American beyblade team the All Starz. After the end of the Beyblade World Championships, Max moves back to America with his mother to help her with beyblade research. \nEtymology: the name 'Max' can be an abbreviation of 'Maxium' and the surname 'Mizuhara' can be broken into two Kanjis 'Mizu' and 'Hara' which respectively means 'Water' and 'Raw or Original'. so his name can be summed up as 'maxium original water', going well with his aquatic bit-beast Draciel.\n\nHis bit-beast is Draciel, the water turtle. Draciel is one of the 4 sacred bit beast. Max uses four beyblades in Season 1: Draciel Max, Draciel Metal Ball, Draciel Shield and Draciel Fortess. He has three beyblades in Season 2: Draciel Fortress, Draciel Viper and Draciel Viper 2. In Season 3, his beyblades are: Draciel Viper 2, Draciel Gravity, and Draciel Metal Shield.\n\nVoiced by: Aya Hisakawa (Japanese); Daniel DeSanto (English)\n\nRaymond Kon, more commonly known as Ray Kon, is generally calm and open-minded. Many comparatives can be made between his personality and the metaphysical concept of yin and yang, of which he appropriately wears the symbol, the Taijitu.\n\nRay's bit-beast is Driger, which resembles a white tiger. Driger is one of the four sacred bit-beasts.\n\nRay's beyblades and their attacks in this season are Driger Slash (Tiger Claw) and Driger Fang (Tiger Fang). In the second season, he uses Driger Vulcan and Driger Vulcan 2 (Vulcan Power Claw). He uses Driger Gatling (Gatling Claw), and Driger Metal Slash (Thunder Slash) in the third season.\n\nIn the last chapter of the \"Beyblade\" manga, Ray is married to Mariah Wong, and they have a daughter together.\n\nVoiced by: Houko Kuwashima (Japanese); Alex Hood (English)\n\nKenny, also known as the Chief, is the brains of the Bladebreakers team, a self-described nerd due to his advanced expertise on beyblading and computer technology, as well as an expert on every aspect of the sport. Kenny created the HMS series in the anime. This is, for the first two seasons, the sole reason for his involvement in the Bladebreakers team. However, in \"G-Revolution\", Kenny begins to come into his own as a blader, and becomes an official competing member of the team upon the departure of Max and Ray from the Bladebreakers.\n\nIn the English dub of the first two seasons of the anime, Kenny's laptop has a female bit-beast inside, called Dizzi, who was added to the show in replacement of Kenny's normal laptop screen.\n\nVoiced by: Shiho Kikuchi (Japanese); Caitriona Murphy (English)\n\nHilary Tachibana, known as in the original version, is introduced in the second season of the series. She only appears in the anime and not in the manga. Hilary is Tyson's classmate who appears to be in love with him, as well as the class president, often frustrated with trying to get Tyson to do his work. As a result, she tends to be very loud, bossy, and over-reactive, but is still intelligent, kindhearted, and unrelentingly stubborn. Although she is not a beyblader, she becomes a member of the Bladebreakers as their manager and coach, and usually works alongside Kenny. As her position on the team solidifies, she becomes less excitable and exhibits a more responsible and mature attitude. A running gag in the show is that her cooking is terrible, which both Tyson and Daichi constantly state, and she is usually the comic relief throughout the series.\n\nBecause Hilary is not a beyblader, she is initially seen as a nuisance by the Bladebreakers, and Tyson dubs her the \"Wicked Witch of Eighth Grade\" for her tenacity. She is accepted by Kai after she provides the team with an effective training schedule, and the rest of the team eventually warms up to her presence. However, Hilary is frustrated with her inability to see Bit-beasts, and she initially believes the boys are tricking her so they can exclude her from their activities. After she gains the power to see Bit-beasts, the team fully accepts her as one of their members and she becomes a loyal and reliable friend. Because she is less familiar with beyblading and does not beyblade herself, Hilary often uses her head to help solve problems the Bladebreakers encounter.\n\nDuring the third season, Hilary remains with Tyson and Kenny, as they are forced to reform the Bladebreakers into the BBA Revolution with Daichi Sumeragi and without Ray, Max and Kai. She becomes the assistant coach and manager of the team, along with Tyson's older brother, Hiro. After a few weeks, the BEGA appear and demolish the entire BBA company and the building, putting the sport of beyblading on a different playing field. The whole team is forced out from buying beyblade parts from shops since each shop required a BEGA identification card, another one of Boris's schemes to force Tyson out of beyblading unless Tyson joins the BEGA League, like Kai already has. Hilary tries, but fails, to buy parts. She lends a hand to help the team build their own beyblading parts as the BEGA team prepares for them. Later, after the BBA is saved, Hilary looks for Tyson and Kai, as always, and finds them both about to start a Beybattle, the end.\n\nVoiced by: Aniket Shelar(Japanese); Mary Long (English)\n\nEtymology: 'Sumeragi' is an original Japanese Kanji meaning 'Emperor', and the name can be divided into two Kanjis- 'Dai' and 'Chi' which respectively means 'Big' and 'Ground'. So his name can be summed up as 'Emperor of the big Ground' or 'Supreme Emperor'\n\nDaichi is categorized as one of the strongest beybladers in \"G-Revolution\", because he is able to beat Rick of the PPB All Starz. He provides comic relief in the series with his fear of flying, constant eating and heckling Tyson. He is finally beaten by the BEGA League blader, Ming-Ming, but tells her that he will win the next time they battle. Daichi is a major character in the film \"Beyblade: The Movie – Fierce Battle\", in which his Gaia Dragoon is the bit-beast used to release the Dark Beasts that are locked up on Demon Rock island.\n\nAt the beginning of the third season, Tyson is shocked to find out that Daichi has a variant of Dragoon, and claims that his own is the only one. Tyson and Daichi's bit-beasts can use a combination attack, called the Twin Tornado Attack, which may be the first time this happens in the series. When Daichi's father died, he inherited the bit-beast, so Daichi, like Tyson, always seeks solace in it. Daichi is a hard-working blader because of his father, who worked as a forest wood cutter and was very strong. He lives in the forest from where he came, and challenges Tyson for a battle at the start of the third session.\n\nDuring the battle, Kenny notices that Daichi has an advantage with natural playing fields, and Tyson has an advantage in a regular Bey dish. Daichi impresses Max and Ray at first, but not Kai, as he thinks that Tyson is much more skilled than Daichi. Tyson and Daichi often do not get along very well with Tyson, calling him \"monkeyboy,\" Daichi's nickname by which Tyson calls him throughout the third series. Although they often have meaningless fights and eating contests, they still remain good friends. In the manga, he has a mother named Orin and he stars in his own sidestory. He meets several rivals including Hikaru Tomonji and Kennosuke Shishi.\n\nDaichi was a popular character in the manga, and also appeared in many of the \"Beyblade\" video games. His personality resembles Tyson's. The similarities include their \"never give up\" attitudes, eating habits and constantly re-challenging people even after winning or losing. In the Japanese version of \"G-revolution\", Daichi's nickname in the American arc was \"Wild Monkey\". Takao's nickname is \"The Champ\". At the end of the manga (vol.14), Daichi becomes the new referee in place of Blader D.J./D.J. Jazzman. Gaia Dragoon is the beyblade version of the Huang Long, the occasional fifth sacred beast in the myths of the Four Sacred Beasts, represented by the original four members of the Bladebreakers.\n\nHiro Granger, known in the Japanese versions as is Tyson's older brother and an extremely strong beyblader. He only appears in the third season of the anime, \"Beyblade G-Revolution\", but appears throughout the manga from the beginning. His bit-beast is Metal Driger. In the manga, his Holy Monster is Metal Driger. He is voiced by Daisuke Namikawa in the original Japanese version. He is voiced by Tim Hamaguchi in the English dub, and is one of three characters to reappear after the first \"Beyblade\" game on the GBC, the others being Kai and Tyson.\n\nHiro appears in Volume 1 as a rival/villain and confronts Tyson on his skills. He later brings Ray to the Japanese tournament to compete. After the tournament, he reveals his true identity to his younger brother, who has returned to Japan. Later, as part of the world championships, the Japanese team of Tyson, Ray, Max and Kai travel to China, along with Kenny, to compete against the White Tigers. Before they enter the tournament, Hiro introduces them to a site at which his father and he had worked before he had returned to Japan. There, he explains the importance of the four sacred bit-beasts, which are incorporated into the beyblades, and how other sacred spirits will now appear. Hiro follows the team throughout the championships until the end. When the championship is won, he once again disappears, returning to the second tournament to aid Tyson and his team in the World Championships. After the team splits up into their individual countries' teams, Hiro aids Tyson, Kenny and now Daichi, until the last volume, where the final battle of Tyson and Kai is left unfinished.\n\nIn the anime, Hiro first appears as his alter-ego, \"Jin of the Gale (\"Shippu no Jin\"). He seems to be another ordinary villain. However, Tyson feels that he is somehow familiar, like a foreshadowing. When \"Jin of the Gale\" sends a battle invitation to Tyson, Ray intercepts it and challenges him. During their battle, Ray gives everything he has, but eventually admits his inability to surpass Jin, who resorts to his final attack. Hiro emerges victorious despite being caught off-guard. Even though Jin wins, he has no desire to battle Tyson anymore. When Jin finally reveals himself to be Tyson's brother, Hiro Granger, they share a brief reunion, which doesn't last long.\n\nHiro reveals himself to be a strict coach who doesn't care about anything but the team, thus making him an anti-hero throughout the world tournament. The truth is that he wants to prepare Tyson to be the best he can for whatever comes his way. After the world tournament in the first half of the season, Hiro surprises everyone by joining the BEGA League, which angers Tyson. At first, his reason is to help Tyson by to training a strong blader in BEGA so that Tyson would have to become stronger through them. However, when Hiro sees Brooklyn's talent, he seeks to create a strong rival for him to defeat and leaves BBA Revolution. Through the Justice 5 tournament, he stands by Brooklyn but, at the very end, he expresses his pride in Tyson through his thoughts and leaves to train.\n\nKai appears to hate Hiro, though no real reason is given. Tension is very thick between them when they talk, and later Kai clearly orders Hiro to stay out of his way. During the World Championship, Hiro chooses Daichi and Kenny to battle with Kai and Tala of the Blitzkrieg Boys, meaning that Tyson wouldn't fight Kai. When Kai starts his game with Daichi, his Dranzer hits Daichi's Strata Dragoon in the air, then hits the wall very close to Hiro. Kai stares very angrily at Hiro, showing his anger at not being able to battle Tyson. During Kai's first confrontation with Brooklyn, Hiro speaks to Kai in a very condescending tone to the point of insulting Kai's ability as a beyblader, and states that he will never match Brooklyn's talent.\n\nAlthough it is never fully proven, Hiro is implied to be the strongest and most powerful blader in the series. He defeats Ray with relative ease, and is able to successfully predict victory at the beginning of a match. He is able to manipulate elemental objects to his own benefit, which is only one of his many tricks. He is able to change his strategy based on an opponent's strengths, as well as weaknesses, which makes him invincible and unpredictable.\n\nThe White Tigers beybladers team consists of Lee Wong, Mariah Wong, Kevin Cheng, Gary Tan, and (in the third season of \"Beyblade G-Revolution\" only) Ray Kon and Master Tao. In \"G-Revolution\", the White Tigers are renamed White Tiger X\n\n, and Ray and Lee are tag team partners. The White Tigers do not make an appearance in the second season. All members of the White Tigers have cat-like expressions and features, except for Gary, who has more similarities to a bear.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe All Starz (later known as PPB All Starz) beybladers team consists of Michael, Steven, Eddy and Emily in the first season, and Max and Rick in the third season, with Michael, Eddy and Emily as supporting members. They come from the United States and, except for Max and Rick, they enjoy sports apart from beyblading. Several members of the team use sports themed Beyblade launchers. Steven kicks a football, Eddy dunks a basketball, and Emily uses a tennis racquet to strike a tennis ball.\n\nIn the original version, the All Starz are known as the PPB All Stars. The dub removed the PPB portion of the team name, restoring it for \"G-Revolution\", and they replaced the last \"s\" with \"z\". The All Starz are the only team in Season 1 in which all of its members keep their original names.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Dark Bladers (\"Team WHO\" in the Japanese version) beyblade team appears only in the first season. The team is composed by four monsters: Sanguinex (a vampire), Lupinex (a werewolf), Cenotaph (a mummy), and Zomb (a Frankenstein creation). They were turned into monsters by their hatred of the Majestics. Their agenda was to capture more bit-beasts to reach their goal of becoming better bladers. The Bladebreakers first encounter them in England, then on their way to France, then finally defeated them in Paris. The Dark Bladers kidnap Kenny (Kyouju) during the Bladebreakers match against the Majestics, and say they were the Bladebreakers' \"personal monster cheering squad\".\n\nThe Dark Bladers (or, rather, Sanguinex and Lupinex), reappear in the third season's epilogue (original version only). Lupinex is only seen from the face down, distinctive by his telltale grin, hairy wrists and the fact that he is with his brother.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Majestics team is composed of top bladers and wealthy knights from different countries in Europe. They use weapons to launch their beyblades. At first, they are very arrogant showoffs, not functioning properly as a team. However, they later learn the importance of teamwork.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Demolition Boys (Neo Borg in the Japanese version, later known as the Blitzkrieg Boys in the dub of the third season) are a team of Russian characters. The term \"Blitzkrieg\" is a German World War 2 tactic that translates to \"Lightning war\". In the first \"Beyblade\" series, Tala is the captain of the Demolition Boys with the group trained by Boris Balkov and sponsored by the Biovolt company under Voltaire. The other members are Ian, Spencer, and Bryan (and Kai later on, towards the end of the season). In the third season, after they reappear (without Ian) and invite Kai to join them, Kai accepts. Kai later disbanded the Blitzkrieg Boys in favor for BEGA, which he later lost easily to Brooklyn Masefield in a qualifying battle. Kai then went on to join his original team, the G Revolutions (previously the Bladebreakers).\n\nAll of the Demolition Boys' beyblade launchers are modified after various firearms.\n\n\n\n\n\nA criminal mastermind who is the overall series antagonist seeking world dominion through the Beyblade game. He appears in the first season as Voltaire's accomplice under the cover of the Demolition Boys' trainer, running an Abbey as a front to select ideal beybladers while disposing of those who fail to live up to his standards while also utilizing unorthodox enhancements on them and their bit beasts. Boris escapes capture after Voltaire's criminal activities were exposed. Boris resurfaces during the events of \"G-Revolution\", claiming to have reformed while establishing the BEGA League for his agenda before his plans were ultimately ruined.\n\nThe Saint Shields beybladers team is formed by four mysterious teenagers whose intentions remain unclear until halfway through the second season, when they reveal that they wish to capture the four sacred bit-beasts in order to prevent them from falling into wrong hands. All members wear similar clothing and their bit-beasts are invisible at first to the Bladebreakers.\n\n\n\n\n\nKing and Queen, blade part collectors, are twins who always work together when collecting blade parts. King's beyblade is Ariel and Queen's beyblade is Gabriel. When they first appear in \"Beyblade V-Force\", King challenges Kai Hiwatari to a battle. During the battle, King reveals his bit-beast Ariel. However, Kai uses Dranzer and almost defeats him, until Queen suddenly joins the battle using her bit-beast Gabriel to help King defeat Kai and shatter Dranzer into pieces. Seeing no use in a broken beyblade, they simply walk away.\n\nDr. K appears by the World Championship and invites them to join her so they can gain the power of the sacred bit-beasts. However, at first they do not accept the offer. They later attack a boy, but Kai challenges them before they can destroy the boy's beyblade. After a fight between King and Kai, both escape, leaving the battle undecided. King and Queen later accept Dr. K's offer to join her. They challenge Kane and Jim on a beach and destroy their beyblades, leading to their disqualification from the championship.\n\nDuring the championship, King and Queen have their first fight against Joseph and Mariam. Even though they play against the rules (both teammates in the stadium at the same time), Mr. Dickenson allows the fight to proceed. In the end, both Joseph and Mariam's beyblades are destroyed (except for the attack rings, which are stolen by their adversaries), and King and Queen win. They are defeated in their next fight, against Tyson and Max. Queen's beyblade is destroyed, and King joins Tyson in an attempt to stop Dr. K (who is shooting flash lights on Dragoon). At the end of the battle, both King and Queen admit they've been wrong and announce they are now travelling around the world to acquire experience.\n\nIn \"Beyblade G-Revolution\", King and Queen have what appears to be a championship two-on-two battle with Julia Fernandez and Raul Fernandez from F-Dynasty in the series finale. This scene was cut from the dub.\n\nKing and Queen are voiced by Hirofumi Nojima and Mie Sonozaki in the original version. In the English version, King and Queen are voiced by David Berni and Susan Laney Dalton.\n\nTeam Psykick beybladers team only appears in \"Beyblade V-Force\". Some of its members are also seen at the end of \"G-Revolution\". The team is owned by a beyblading corporation called Zagart Industries, owned by Dr. Zagart. A member of Team Psykick is usually referred to as a Psykick, and a group of bladers Psykicks. The main antagonists are led by Gideon and Doctor B as their main instructors. The goal of Team Psykick is to capture the four sacred spirits, or \"bit-beasts\" from the world champion beyblading team, the Bladebreakers.\n\nCore Members\n\nThe Psykicks\n\nOriginal Team\n\nHarassment Team\n\nFoxy was voiced by Jonathan Potts.\nNet was voiced by Phil DeWilde.\n\nTeam Zagart\n\nOther Members\n\nF-Dynasty (F-sangre in the Japanese version) beyblading team features Raul and Julia Fernandez, who are the twin beybladers representing Spain. When beyblading together, they can combine their attacks to Gemini Grash and Gemini Attack. They were born and raised into a circus, and specialise in tag team beyblade matches. Their coach is Romero. In the manga version of \"Beyblade\", Raul and Julia come from \"the noble Fernandez family,\" instead of a circus. F-Dynasty only appears during season three of \"Beyblade\", \"Beyblade G-Revolution\".\n\n\n\n\nThe Barthez Battalion team consists of Miguel, Mathilda, Aaron, Claude and their coach Barthez. The team only appears during the third season, \"Beyblade G-Revolution\".\n\nThe Barthez Battalion is introduced to the Bladebreakers through the television, when it is announced that they have knocked the Majestics out of the championship. Tyson finds it very strange that the Majestics are defeated by such a new, unknown team. Although the members of the team are well-intentioned, they blindly follow the orders of Barthez, who forces them to cheat in order to win. After Miguel battles Tyson, they realize that cheating is wrong and they do not need to follow Barthez's orders any longer.\n\nOn their last fight, and following their own strategies, they face the F-Dynasty. The first match between Julia and Miguel ends with Julia's victory. For the next round, they ask Mathilda to fight, using a beyblade made with parts from all of the other members' beyblades. Raul, on the other side of the beystadium, needs to prove to himself and his sister that he can do well all by himself, without his sister's assistance. He wins, and the Barthez Battalion leaves the championship proud of having played according to the rules and to their own strategies, rather than resorting to cheating. The Barthez Battalion then ditches their coach and fights the rest of the tournament fairly. Although they are knocked out of the tournament, they accept their defeat gracefully. It is later revealed in the series that, according to Tala, the team was merely a demonstration put together by BEGA in order to cause a splash at the world tournament with their coach, Barthez, being Boris' agent. However, thanks to Tyson's efforts, Miguel realizes that Barthez could not be trusted. The Barthez Battalion represents Europe during the Beyblade World Championships.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe BEGA League/Justice 5 beybladers team (BEGA stands for \"Beyblade Entertainment Global Association\") only appears during the third season, and is seen by fans as enemies for aiding Boris. The team consists of Garland, Brooklyn, Ming-Ming, Mystel and Crusher. Their bit-beasts are named after the Greek and Roman gods.\n\n\nThere are two sides to his personality. First, the calm and seemingly gentle and very kind side and then the psychotic, dark and aggressive side.\n\nBrooklyn being a fervent admirer of nature, he would rather spend all his time outside, lying in the grass and taking care of any bug or animal around him, than staying inside a building with next to no view of the environment, learning strategies or simply training. During this time, he has 'visions' of how an upcoming battle is going to end. For instance, he predicted how Mystel's fight against Max was going to happen, and therefore saw no reason to assist to such repetition.\n\nBrooklyn's childhood reflected strongly in his personality. Because he always won, the other children did not want to play with him so he was often left alone- his genius isolating him.\n\nBrooklyn declares himself a god. He only calms down once Tyson explains to him the true meaning of beyblading, using the power of the bit-beasts of his teammates (Kai, Ray, Max and Daichi) and Tala's Wolborg (Tala has woken up from his coma and sends Wolborg with his special ice attack to help Tyson) to dispel Zeus's darkness and return the world to normal, albeit heavily ravaged. Once the chaos has passed, Tyson and Brooklyn continue their battle as it should be, a friendly competition, free from the machinations of the now disgraced Boris. Tyson wins in the end due to Dragoon absorbing other bit-beasts' powers, then attacks and defeats Zeus. Although both bladers take their beyblades and battle again, the victor is never actually shown.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDJ Jazzman (known as Blader DJ in the Japanese version) is the referee of the anime and manga. He is the BBA's top announcer and gives the signal to start every battle. He introduces the players and announces where the next tournament will take place.\n\nBlader DJ is second referee of the original series in \"\" and \"Beyblade G-Revolution\". He replaces DJ Jazzman and announces every match for the BBA and BEGA.\n"}
{"id": "2261759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261759", "title": "Georgi Asparuhov", "text": "Georgi Asparuhov\n\nGeorgi Asparuhov Rangelov (; 4 May 1943 – 30 June 1971), nicknamed Gundi, was a Bulgarian footballer who played as a striker.\n\nA prolific forward of his generation, Asparuhov was renowned for his finishing, technique and heading ability. He was voted the best Bulgarian footballer of the 20th century and Europe's 40th best player of the century , a position shared with Paolo Rossi. Asparuhov was also nominated for the 1965 Ballon d'Or award, finishing eighth in the final standings. \n\nIn international football, Asparuhov made his Bulgaria debut on 6 May 1962 at the age of 19. He made 49 appearances in total, appearing at three FIFA World Cup tournaments, in 1962, 1966 and 1970, and scoring 18 goals.\n\nAsparuhov's career was cut short in 1971 at the age of 28 when he was killed in a vehicle accident. Levski Sofia's current stadium is named in his honour.\n\nAsparuhov began his senior career at Levski Sofia in the end of 1959–60 season at the age of 17. He made his debut on 5 June 1960 in a 1–0 home loss against Lokomotiv Sofia, coming on as a second-half substitute. His first senior goal came during the following campaign when he scored in a 1–1 away draw against Botev Plovdiv on 28 September 1960.\n\nIn January 1962, Asparuhov joined Botev Plovdiv where he won 1961–62 Bulgarian Cup a few months later. On 13 September 1962, he marked his European debut away at Steaua Bucureşti with two goals, but Botev lost the game 3–2 in their preliminary round first leg tie of 1962–63 Cup Winners' Cup. A week later, in the second leg of Botev's European tie against Steaua, Asparuhov scored his first-ever hat-trick in a resounding 5–1 home victory. He also scored in a 4–0 away win over Shamrock Rovers on 24 October 1962 and became a top scorer of the tournament with 6 goals.\n\nIn October 1963, Asparuhov returned to Levski Sofia. \n\nWidely regarded as Levski's greatest ever player, Asparuhov played over 230 games for the club, winning three Bulgarian League titles and three Bulgarian Cups. During his time at the club he won the Bulgarian footballer of the year and Bulgarian sportsperson of the year in 1965. \n\nAsparuhov is Levski's third all-time leading goal scorer (153). In 1964–65 season he became the league's top scorer with 27 goals in 29 matches.\n\nSome of the top European clubs at the time sought his services. In the 1965–66 European Cup, Levski played Benfica (with Eusébio in the squad). When Benfica eliminated Levski after hard-fought 3:2 and 2:2 scorelines and Gundi having netted 3 of all Levski goals (one of them Simo Nikolov), Europe began to view Gundi with interest. In fact, he was the first player to score two goals in Benfica's stadium. The Portuguese club, as well as Itaian giants A.C. Milan, wanted to buy Asparuhov, but the communist government of Bulgaria did not allow them to do so.\n\nTo A.C. Milan's emissary, regarding their offer, he answered that way:\n\n\"Tell them that there is a country named Bulgaria. In that country there is a team named Levski, you might not have heard of it. But I was born in this team and I will die in this team.\"\n\nAsparuhov made his debut for the Bulgarian national team in a friendly match against Austria at Praterstadion in Vienna on 6 May 1962 and was named in the 22-man Bulgarian squad for the 1962 FIFA World Cup. He made his World Cup debut in the second group game against Hungary at Estadio Braden Copper Co. in Rancagua on 3 June 1962.\n\nAsparuhov scored his first goals for Bulgaria on 7 November 1962, scoring twice in a 3–1 home victory over Portugal in a 1964 European Nations' Cup qualifying match. Then he top scored for Bulgaria in their 1966 World Cup qualifying campaign with five goals. During the World Cup he scored Bulgaria's only goal in a 1–3 loss against Hungary at Old Trafford in Manchester.\n\nAsparuhov died in a car crash in 1971 with teammate Nikola Kotkov. Over 550,000 people gathered at his funeral in Sofia. The present stadium of Levski Sofia is named Georgi Asparuhov Stadium in honour of the famous striker.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2261761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261761", "title": "Unflappable", "text": "Unflappable\n"}
{"id": "2261763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261763", "title": "Magheramorne", "text": "Magheramorne\n\nMagheramorne () is a hamlet in County Antrim, Northern Ireland. It is about 5 miles south of Larne on the shores of Larne Lough. It had a population of 75 people in the 2001 Census. Following the reform of Northern Ireland's local government system on 1 April 2015, Magheramorne lies within the Mid and East Antrim Borough Council area.\n\nNearby is an old limestone quarry currently owned by Lafarge (formerly known as Blue Circle). Extraction of limestone from the quarry, for use in the Magheramorne cement plant, ceased in 1980. The high point for limestone extraction at Magheramorne was in the 19th and 20th centuries. In the 19th century a mission church for labourers at the limeworks was established and became a Presbyterian Church.\n\nIn September 2009, Lafarge obtained outline planning permission for redevelopment of the quarry and cement works, including a new eco-friendly village and a major cycling centre mainly in the quarry. A regeneration plan will transform the quarry into a nature conservation, leisure and housing area. The 75 hectare quarry will be the home of a World Cycling Centre and the All-Ireland Scuba Diving Centre if the plans go ahead. The area of Larne Lough that was used to ship cement out of Magheramorne is now used as a marina.\n\nThe abandoned Magheramorne quarry area was used as a filming location for the HBO TV series \"Game of Thrones\". Castle Black, Hardhome and The Wall were filmed there, and battlements were built there to serve as King's Landing's defences during the Battle of Blackwater Bay; scenes shot atop the wall were filmed inside the Paint Hall Studios in Belfast. The composite set (with both exteriors and interiors) consisted of a large section of Castle Black including the courtyard, the ravenry, the mess hall and the barracks, and used the stone wall of the quarry as the basis for the ice wall that protects Westeros. A functional elevator was built to lift the rangers to the top of The Wall. A castle with real rooms and a working elevator were built near a cliff high, CGI fills in the rest to make the wall appear high. The area around the elevator was painted white to make it look like ice. George R. R. Martin said: \"It's a pretty spectacular, yet miserable location. It is wet and rainy, and the mud is thick. I visited there; it really gets the actors in the mood of being at the end of the world in all of this cold and damp and chill\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2261764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261764", "title": "Stocking frame", "text": "Stocking frame\n\nA stocking frame was a mechanical knitting machine used in the textiles industry. It was invented by William Lee of Calverton near Nottingham in 1589. Its use, known traditionally as framework knitting, was the first major stage in the mechanisation of the textile industry, and played an important part in the early history of the Industrial Revolution. It was adapted to knit cotton and to do ribbing, and by 1800 had been adapted as a lace making machine.\n\nLee's machine consisted of a stout wooden frame. It did straight knitting, not tubular knitting. It had a separate needle for each loop - these were low carbon steel bearded needles where the tips were reflexed and could be depressed onto a hollow, closing the loop. The needles were supported on a needle bar that passed back and forth, to and from the operator. The beards were simultaneously depressed by a presser bar. The first machine had eight needles per inch and was suitable for worsted. The next version had 16 needles per inch and was suitable for silk.\n\nThe mechanical movements:\n\nThe machine imitated the movements of hand knitters. Lee demonstrated the operation of the device to Queen Elizabeth I, hoping to obtain a patent, but she refused, fearing the effects on hand-knitting industries. The original frame had eight needles to the inch, which produced only coarse fabric. Lee later improved the mechanism with 20 needles to the inch. By 1598 he was able to knit stockings from silk, as well as wool, but was again refused a patent by James I. Lee moved to France, under the patronage of Henri IV, with his workers and his machines, but was unable to sustain his business. He died in Paris around 1614. Most of his workers returned to England with their frames, which were sold in London.\n\nThe commercial failure of Lee's design might have led to a dead-end for the knitting machine, but John Ashton, one of Lee's assistants, made a crucial improvement by adding the mechanism known as a \"divider\". This is used after the jack sinkers have pulled down a large loop over all the needles, and the sinker bar has separated out the loop, the dividers are rested on the loop to give the bearded needles guidance as they are pulled forward.\n\nA thriving business built up with the exiled Huguenot silk-spinners who had settled in the village of Spitalfields just outside the city of London. In 1663, the Worshipful Company of Framework Knitters was issued a royal charter. By about 1785, however, demand was rising for cheaper stockings made of cotton. The frame was adapted but became too expensive for individuals to buy; thus, wealthy men bought the machines and hired them out to the knitters, providing the materials and buying the finished product. With increasing competition, they ignored the standards set by the Chartered Company. Frames were introduced to Leicester by Nicholas Alsop in around 1680, who encountered resistance and at first worked secretly in a cellar in Northgate Street, taking his own sons and the children of near relatives as apprentices. In 1728, the Nottingham magistrates refused to accept the authority of the London Company, and the centre of the trade moved northwards to Nottingham, which also had a lace making industry.\n\nThe breakthrough with cotton stockings came in 1758 when Jedediah Strutt introduced an attachment for the frame which produced what became known as the \"Derby rib\". The Nottingham frameworkers found themselves increasingly short of raw materials. Initially they used thread spun in India, but this was expensive and required doubling. Lancashire yarn was spun for fustian and varied in texture. They tried spinning cotton themselves but, being used to the long fibres of wool, experienced great difficulty. Meanwhile, the Gloucester spinners, who had been used to a much shorter wool, were able to handle cotton and their frameworkers were competing with the Nottingham producers.\n\nIt was then that Richard Arkwright arrived with his new experimental spinning machinery. He initially built a works operated by horsepower but it was evident that six to eight would be needed at a time, changed every half-hour. He moved to Cromford and set up what became known as the water frame. Strutt, as his partner, set up mills at Belper and Milford. Thus the area joined Nottingham in producing cotton stockings, while Derby, with its mills originated by John Lombe continued largely with silk; Leicester, a farming area, continued with wool.\n\nFor mechanical power to be applied to a stocking frame, it had to be adapted for rotary motion. In 1769, Samuel Wise, a clockmaker, took out a patent for changing the hand frame into a rotary. In Nottingham's case, steam coal was easily available from the Nottinghamshire coalfield.\n\nBy 1812, there were estimated to be over 25,000 frames in use, most of them in the three counties, and the frame had come back to Calverton.\n\nThe Derby Rib machine was invented in 1757 by Strutt. It consisted of an extra set of bearded needles that operated vertically, taking the loop and reversing them. This allowed a plain and purl knit to be used, and led to ribbing and a tighter more flexible fabric. To do a 3:1 rib, there would be one vertical needle after every third horizontal needle.\n\nLacey knits can be achieved by slipping a stitch, picking up a stitch or knitting two together. On a frame, a tickler wire could realise individual loops and create a run that would be picked up by hand. The frame was modified by adding a tickler bar and a tuck presser, to allow held and tuck stitches. Here the weft was held in the beard and carried up to the next course where two threads were passed together. Messrs Morris and Betts took a patent (807) in 1764 on a stitch transfer device where threads from one needle were passed to another. With tuck stitches, this a created 'eyelet holes'. Partial stitch transfer produced a marker stitch.\n\nIn 1764, a profound change was made to the stocking frame that enabled it to produce weft-knitted nets. Hammond, the attributed inventor, used ticklers to stitch-transfer from one needle to the third one along crossing over two intermediate needles creating a cross stitch. He also used a tickler to move two stitches two to the right, and then two to the left in a double cross stitch, Valenciennes lace. To do this the tickler bar was detached from the frame and attached to 'dogs', that is, jointed arms. This allowed forward motion to scoop, and sideways motion to shog. New inventions were patented: Frost's tickler net of 1769, the two plain net of 1777 and the square net of 1781, and their patents were fiercely defended. Harvey changed the shape of the tickler wires to avoid one in his pin machine. This became popular in Lyon and Paris where 2000 frames were in use in 1800.\n\nIn 1803 cotton was used with silk, as Houldsworths were producing 300 count cotton.\n\nA legend later developed that Lee had invented the first machine in order to get revenge on a lover who had preferred to concentrate on her knitting rather than attend to him. A painting illustrating this story was once displayed in the Stocking Framer's Guild hall in London. In 1846 the Victorian artist Alfred Elmore produced a variation on the story in his popular painting \"The Invention of the Stocking Loom\", in which Lee is depicted pondering his idea as he watches his wife knitting (Nottingham Castle Museum).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2261766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261766", "title": "WCWF", "text": "WCWF\n\nWCWF, virtual channel 14 (UHF digital channel 21), is a CW-affiliated television station serving Green Bay, Wisconsin, United States that is licensed to Suring. The station is owned by Sinclair Broadcast Group, as part of a duopoly with Green Bay-licensed Fox affiliate WLUK-TV (channel 11). The two stations share studios on Lombardi Avenue (US 41) on the line between Green Bay and Ashwaubenon, next to the Resch Center; WCWF's transmitter is located in Glenmore, Wisconsin.\n\nOn cable, the station is available in standard definition on channel 10 on most cable systems in the market (though legacy Charter systems vary on cable positions), and channel 14 on AT&T U-verse, and in high definition on Spectrum channel 1010 and AT&T U-verse channel 1014.\n\nThe station launched on February 22, 1984 as religious independent station WSCO-TV, under the ownership of Northeastern Wisconsin Christian Television Incorporated. The station's former analog transmitter was located outside of the unincorporated Oconto County community of Krakow, north of Pulaski on WIS 32. Financial problems would force the station off the air by 1987; VCY America would purchase the station's license that year and return it to the air by 1993 as a sister station to Milwaukee's WVCY-TV with religious and home shopping programming. On April 30, 1997, Paxson Communications (now Ion Media Networks) purchased the station and converted it to a paid programming format under Paxson's inTV service. On August 31, 1998, WSCO became a charter owned-and-operated station of Pax TV (later i: Independent Television, now Ion Television) under the new call sign WPXG (for \"Paxson Green Bay\"). \n\nOn June 2, 1999, Paxson sold WPXG to ACME Communications; the station immediately became a primary WB affiliate and changed its call sign to WIWB, originally branded as \"WB 14\" and later \"Wisconsin's WB\". Before it joined the network, WB programming in Northeastern Wisconsin was previously seen either through cable providers that carried Chicago-based superstation WGN and/or Milwaukee's WVTV or during off hours on UPN affiliate WACY-TV (channel 32; Kids' WB programming aired as part of WACY's children's lineup). WIWB also continued to air Pax programming in the mornings, overnights and weekends for a few years after ACME's purchase was finalized; it would drop that network by 2004, at which time the station's programming lineup adopted a more general entertainment format that was heavily reliant on sitcom reruns and court shows, in addition to WB programming. Pax TV's successor, Ion Television, would not return to the market over-the-air until November 2015, when WBAY-TV launched it on their DT3 subchannel.\n\nOn January 24, 2006, the Warner Bros. unit of Time Warner and CBS Corporation announced that the two companies would shut down The WB and UPN and combine the networks' respective programming to create a new \"fifth\" network called The CW. Due to ACME's ownership by former WB executive Jamie Kellner, WIWB's pursuit of the CW affiliation was assumed to be a formality. Indeed, on March 9, 2006, ACME Communications affiliated most of their stations with The CW, including WIWB. The station officially joined the network upon its September 18, 2006 launch. Prior to that date, it temporarily carried not only WB programs, but also shows from UPN after WACY-TV dropped UPN before that network's closure to join MyNetworkTV. At the time, ACME decided not to change the callsigns of any of their WB-to-CW affiliates to avert any further confusion from the launch of the two new networks.\n\nOn June 4, 2010, LIN TV Corporation, owner of Green Bay's Fox affiliate WLUK-TV, as part of an agreement with ACME Communications in three markets where both companies owned stations, announced that it would begin to operate WIWB through separate shared services and joint sales agreements; WLUK would provide WIWB with technical, engineering, promotional, administrative and other operational support services, as well as joint advertising sales for the two stations. As part of its agreements with ACME, LIN TV had the option to purchase WIWB, an option it exercised in September 2010, purchasing not only WIWB but another CW station in a similar arrangement, Dayton, Ohio's WBDT. LIN TV included in its license transfer request to the Federal Communications Commission a \"failing station waiver,\" an indication that the station was in an economically non-viable position and that FCC should relax ownership limits that apply to the Green Bay market so that Channel 14 could stay on the air; that limit (found in CFR§73.3555(b)(2) of the FCC's rules) permits ownership duopolies in markets with at least eight full-power stations, whereas Green Bay has only seven (Journal Communications would also seek a waiver in its 2012 purchase of WACY-TV, which has been operated through Journal-owned WGBA-TV since 1994). \nIn April 2011, the FCC approved the ownership transfer of WCWF from ACME to LIN TV, also applying the requested failing station waiver. Additionally, the FCC denied a petition from Time Warner Cable, the dominant cable provider in Northeast Wisconsin; the FCC dismissed as speculative TWC's claims that higher retransmission fees for WCWF, when paired with those for WLUK, would result from LIN TV's purchase of the station, and that LIN's collective retransmission plans for both stations did not violate FCC rules. The sale of WCWF to LIN was consummated on May 20, 2011.\n\nAlmost immediately after taking control of WIWB, LIN TV would make changes at the station, starting with relocating its operations from the Parkview Plaza strip mall in suburban Ashwaubenon to WLUK's studios on Lombardi Avenue. During August and September 2010, the station would undergo changes in both on-air branding (from \"Wisconsin's CW\" to \"CW14\") and call sign (from WIWB to WCWF). Also in the fall of 2010, WCWF would upgrade syndicated programming to high-definition (which already occurs on WLUK), while both WCWF and WLUK would begin hourly cross-promotions of each other's programming. In mid-November 2010, WCWF's website was switched from being managed by ACME's webhost, Desert Bloom Productions, to LIN Media Interactive (LIN Media's branding for EndPlay, formerly Fox Interactive Media).\n\nOn March 21, 2014, LIN Media entered into an agreement to merge with Media General in a $1.6 billion deal. Because Media General already owns ABC affiliate WBAY-TV (which was acquired in 2013 as part of Media General's merger with Young Broadcasting), the companies were required to sell either WLUK or WBAY to another station owner in order to comply with FCC ownership rules as well as planned changes to those rules regarding same-market television stations which would prohibit sharing agreements.\n\nOn August 20, 2014, Media General announced that it would keep WBAY and sell WLUK and WCWF, along with WJAR/Providence and WTGS/Savannah, to Sinclair Broadcast Group in exchange for Sinclair stations in Tampa Bay (WTTA) and Colorado Springs (KXRM-TV and KXTU-LD). As part of its acquisition, Sinclair announced it would seek a continuation of the FCC rules waiver allowing the joint ownership of WCWF and WLUK. The sale was completed on December 19.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nOn October 31, 2015, WCWF formally launched a digital subchannel affiliated with Comet, a science fiction-themed network jointly owned by Sinclair and MGM Television; it is the first subchannel offered by Sinclair on either WCWF or WLUK, and is expected to also feature programming from Sinclair's sports service, American Sports Network.\n\nOn December 12, 2008, the station replaced its digital transmitter antenna due to a wavering signal and recommended that viewers perform a channel rescan to restore the WIWB's digital signal if they lost reception. WCWF (as WIWB) shut down its analog signal, over UHF channel 14, on February 17, 2009, the original date in which full-power television stations in the United States were to transition from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate (which was later pushed back to June 12, 2009). The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 21. Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display the station's virtual channel as its former UHF analog channel 14.\n\nAs part of the SAFER Act, WCWF kept its analog signal on the air until March 4 to inform viewers of the digital television transition through a loop of public service announcements from the National Association of Broadcasters. On May 6, 2009, due to the station's close proximity to the Canada–U.S. border, the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) issued a conditional approval of WIWB's construction permit to expand its coverage area by increasing power. The approval was needed in order to work with interference problems resulting from PBS member station WCMW across Lake Michigan in Manistee, Michigan sharing channel 21 and to address the concerns of interference in local health care facilities' radiological equipment. The increase in power was applied on September 8, 2009 and station officials asked viewers to rescan for the signal.\n\nIn mid-November 2011, the station experienced major problems with its transmitter and LIN's technical staff had to take the station off the air for several days to repair the problem. As there was no backup fiber optic link to Time Warner Cable, the station was not available to cable viewers either, and as neither of LIN's stations in Green Bay carried any subchannels at the time, WLUK was unable to offer WCWF's programming over a backup 11.2 signal. The station was unable to get permission from The CW to carry the two nights of network programming missed during the shutdown and referred viewers to the network's website and Hulu to watch the missed shows.\n\nIn addition to carrying The CW's full network programming lineup, syndicated programming on WCWF includes \"The Big Bang Theory\", \"The People's Court\", \"Extra\", \"How I Met Your Mother\", and \"Family Guy\" among others; the station also carried the entire run of \"The Daily Buzz\", which originated under ACME ownership, from its 2003 launch to its sudden April 17, 2015 ending. \n\nWCWF also broadcasts syndicated college sports from the ACC Network and, since its acquisition by Sinclair, the company's American Sports Network, with weeknight ASN programming airing on WCWF-DT2 to allow CW programming to air without preemption, though any conference games from ASN's Horizon League coverage where the UW-Green Bay Phoenix are playing air on the main signal. WCWF is also used as a \"shadow station\" for WLUK programming preempted due to extended breaking news or severe weather coverage, or network programming (mainly sports events) that overruns into or is scheduled to preempt regular programs; for example, 9 p.m. newscasts on WLUK that are preempted for Fox Sports broadcasts will air on WCWF (in prior years, WLUK leased access on a Time Warner Cable channel for its preempted newscasts).\n\nBeginning in 2016, the station acquired local rights to the Wisconsin Interscholastic Athletic Association state basketball and hockey championships as part of Quincy Media's statewide network of stations, taking over from longtime partner WACY-TV. Since March 2016, WCWF has aired two NBA on ABC games during the first weekend in March in lieu of WBAY, which instead carries its annual telethon for local cerebral palsy research and medical care.\n\nIn the summer of 2018, the station began to carry weekend home games for the Midwest League's Wisconsin Timber Rattlers, the Grand Chute-based Class A affiliate for the Brewers. The games are produced by WLUK for WCWF, and also air on WVTV-DT2 in Milwaukee.\n\nFrom December 2008 to June 2010, WIWB featured \"Daily Buzz\" inserts called \"Buzzed Into the (920)\" (named for the telephone area code for Green Bay and the Fox Cities). \"Buzzed\" was patterned after then-sister station WBUW's \"Buzzed Into Madison\" and featured an on-air presenter (originally Kristen Rietz, later Kari Merchant) profiling positive stories and features on news, events, businesses and personalities in the Green Bay/Fox Cities area. \"Buzzed Into the (920)\" was dropped when WLUK took over WCWF's operations, although past installments are still available on the feature's YouTube channel.\n\nExisting local content on WCWF, in addition to the occasional WLUK news broadcast, includes a Sunday morning airing of the polka music show \"Polka, Polka, Polka\". LIN Media, after taking control of WCWF, would add severe weather bulletins; the weekly prep football highlight show \"High School GameTime\" in August 2011; and, in late 2011, \"CW 14 Focus\", a Sunday morning local public affairs program that debuted in order to fulfill local programming requirements; it is hosted by WLUK reporter Robert Hornacek.\n\nAlso added in 2011 was the position of \"CW 14 Star,\" who represents the station on-air, online, and at community events. Maria Parmigiani was selected as the first \"Star\" during the first quarter of 2011, earning the job after an audition process, an appearance on WLUK's \"Good Day Wisconsin\", and an online voting process. Parmigiani was succeeded by Katie Phernetton in 2013 after a similar audition and selection process.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2261777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261777", "title": "The Greatest Hits – Volume 2: 20 More Good Vibrations", "text": "The Greatest Hits – Volume 2: 20 More Good Vibrations\n\nThe Greatest Hits – Volume 2: 20 More Good Vibrations is a compilation album of songs by American rock band The Beach Boys, released in 1999 by Capitol Records. It was issued as a companion piece to \"\", on the same day.\n\nThe collection includes early classics that were omitted from the first volume, such as \"In My Room\" and \"Don't Worry Baby\", but also covers tracks from their less commercially successful period of 1967-1970, ranging from \"Heroes and Villains\" to the Al Jardine-produced \"Cottonfields\", the latter a European hit in the summer of 1970.\n\nAs on the first volume, the production credits on this album were revised: although originally credited to The Beach Boys, the songs \"Heroes and Villains\", \"Wild Honey\", \"Darlin'\" and \"Friends\" are now credited as being produced by Brian Wilson.\n\nIn March of 2000, \"The Greatest Hits – Volume 2\" charted at No. 192 in the United States, following the broadcast of the ABC TV movie \"\".\n\nAll songs by Brian Wilson and Mike Love, except where noted. All tracks are mono single mixes, except where noted.\n\n"}
{"id": "2261778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261778", "title": "Richard Onslow", "text": "Richard Onslow\n\nRichard Onslow may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2261784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261784", "title": "Never Leave Me", "text": "Never Leave Me\n\n\"Never Leave Me\" is the ninth episode of the seventh and final season of the television series \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\", in which the Scooby Gang begins to realize the magnitude of their peril.\n\nXander works to repair the living room window while Dawn, Willow and Anya help clean up and discuss the potential danger that is Spike. Wearing a trench coat like Spike's, Andrew is coached by Warren to continue playing his part in the game. Warren explains that because he can't take corporeal form, Andrew is a crucial player and then he morphs into Jonathan to continue the encouragement. Andrew stresses that he can't kill anymore, but Jonathan doesn't consider that to be a problem. Buffy tries to offer comforting words to Spike while she ties him down to a chair. He instructs her to tie the rope tighter so he can't get free.\n\nPrincipal Wood lectures two students about damaging school property and ultimately threatens the students into repairing their mistake. Dawn drops by his office and informs him that Buffy is sick and unable to attend work. Buffy calls Quentin Travers and asks about Giles, but he's just as clueless as she is. He's with a group of Watchers and informs them that they need to find Giles quickly. Buffy checks on Spike, who's struggling to control his blood lust after tasting so much human blood. He vamps and snaps at her, but remains tied to the chair. Buffy and Willow talk about Spike outside the room and Willow volunteers to get him some animal blood to help ease his cravings.\n\nWarren coaches Andrew on killing a pig, but Andrew fails miserably and resorts to going to the butcher shop to get the blood they need. At the butcher shop, Andrew orders an array of meats and pig's blood, but as he's leaving, he runs into Willow and spills his purchases on the ground. Andrew runs from her, but she catches up with him and uses his assumption that she's evil to frighten him. She takes him back to the house with her, pointing out his suspicious behavior and purchase of animal blood to the rest of the group. Xander and Anya interrogate Andrew while he's tied to a chair, but he doesn't have any answers they want to hear. Anya snaps and slaps Andrew before Xander pulls her out of the room.\n\nUpstairs, Buffy feeds Spike some of the animal blood as Anya and Xander meet in the bathroom to rave about their 'good cop, bad cop' performance with Andrew. Buffy joins them and although none of them have information yet, they're sure they'll get some soon. Back in the bedroom, Spike is calmed and talks to Buffy about how little he remembers about his killing. She asks about how he got his soul and he tells her about the demon trials.\n\nXander returns to Andrew and changes tactic to politeness. He unties Andrew and offers him water while using Anya's ability to hurt men as a threat. Anya comes charging in and attacks Andrew, intending to beat his knowledge out of him. Buffy leaves Spike momentarily to investigate Andrew's cries for help, but leaves as soon as Anya and Xander assure her they have things under control. When she leaves, the morphing version of Spike appears and starts to talk to the real Spike. Buffy hears Spike singing through the door to her room and when she goes back inside, she finds him acting differently. He claims to be hungry and asks for blood, but as soon as he gets it he breaks free from his chair and knocks Buffy down, leaving her stunned. While Andrew leans against a wall and starts to talk to Anya about what he knows in the next room over, Spike punches through the wall, grabs Andrew from behind, and viciously bites him.\n\nBuffy recovers and pulls Spike off Andrew; she knocks Spike out with a powerful kick. Buffy talks to the gang about Spike's strange behavior and based on Buffy's information, Xander concludes that Spike is being manipulated by a posthypnotic trigger, in military style. Buffy instructs the gang to begin researching so they can figure out what they're dealing with.\n\nAt the high school, Principal Wood leaves his office, but detours through the basement where he finds Jonathan's dead body on top of the symbol.\n\nBuffy goes down to the basement to clean up Spike's wounds while he lies chained up to a brick wall. He wakes up and doesn't understand why he has no memory of his actions. Buffy tells him of Xander's trigger theory. Spike orders Buffy to kill him because she and the Scoobies are not prepared to handle the \"real\" Spike. She denies his request and Spike responds with a theory of his own, that Buffy likes men who hurt her and that's why she's never been able to kill him. She tells him no, that his theory no longer describes her; and that she is not going to kill him because something is controlling him, and because he can be, and now is, a good man. She tells Spike she believes in him.\n\nSuddenly, the windows and doors break all over the house as robed figures attack the Scooby Gang. In a deserted location, Principal Wood buries Jonathan's body. The gang fights a vicious battle with the robed figures attacking them. Dawn handles herself pretty well with a couple of them while Buffy chases one upstairs and protects Andrew from being killed. Most of the robed figures are disabled or killed, but they didn't come for Buffy and the gang; they came for Spike. Down in the basement, Buffy and Xander find that Spike's chains are empty and he's nowhere to be seen. Buffy recognizes the faces of the robed figures as harbingers representing The First (first encountered in \"Amends\") and realizes that's who they're dealing with. The ghosts haunting them, the games being played on them and the impending danger that will come from beneath are all connected to the First Evil.\n\nWatchers report to Quentin about the numerous attacks on the Council around the world. Quentin confirms that the First Evil is responsible and orders the Watchers to prepare for their greatest challenge. Seconds later, the Watcher's Council headquarters explodes. In the Sunnydale High School basement, Spike is strapped to circular contraption and the robed figures cut designs into Spike's skin. The First talks to Spike and blames him for this happening to him. The First morphs into Buffy and she talks as she watches the Bringers raise the contraption and Spike up to the ceiling and turn Spike face-first over the seal. Spike's blood falls onto the seal and opens it. As the First explains, an older kind of vampire called a Turok-Han emerges.\n\nWillow's enormous powers, even if she is not fully in control of them, forced the writers to figure out a way to keep her from being part of every fight. Else, she could burn alive (or undead) every foe she sees. Here, she is immediately knocked unconscious when the Bringers attack. The same plot device is used in \"Get It Done\".\n\nCamden Toy also appears in the Season Four episode \"Hush\" as one of the \"Gentlemen\", in the Season Seven episode \"Same Time, Same Place\" as Gnarl, and in the Season Five \"Angel\" episode \"Why We Fight\" as \"The Prince of Lies\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2261788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261788", "title": "ADSEC", "text": "ADSEC\n\nADSEC or ADSEC/COMZ represents \"The Advance Section, Communications Zone\", European Theater of Operations, United States Army (ETOUSA), which was formally activated at Bristol in February 1944. It is commonly referred to as simply \"ADSEC\". This was a U.S. Army logistical agency, the first on the Continent. Upon its creation ADSEC was attached to the U.S. First Army, and gradually took over the Communications Zone activities. The agency moved forward with the Armies and provided close support. ADSEC provided detail planning for the invasion of Normandy, D-Day.\n\nAs such, ADSEC did not have a \"base\" of operations because this support organization was designed to be on the move continuously. For example, major operations always had a designated \"D\" day or start date for operations. ADSEC units were moved into \"operating areas\" on or several days after a particular \"D\" day. They stayed until about the D+40, at which time FECOMZ (Forward Echelon, Communications Zone) units would take over. ADSEC units then moved forward to the next \"D\" location.\n\nAfter the 6 June 1944, invasion ADSEC was detached from the U.S. First Army and took control of activities at the port of Cherbourg, with engineering activities that included the beaches and landing zones; taking over command of the areas left behind as the First Army moved forward. Besides bringing in supplies for the advancing armies, ADSEC also rehabilitated railway rolling stock and provided transportation of POL (Petroleum, Oil and Lubricants) using rail and motor operations (see Red Ball Express).\n\nADSEC units included field hospitals that lay near the rear areas of the advancing Armies. ADSEC also operated blood banks to store large quantities under refrigerated condition for use at front line hospitals. This system of location of storage depots were flexible, so that in advance of a major military operation blood would be stored where needed, close to front line actions, but when the engagement was over then blood would be transported back to hospitals and other bases, or wherever it was needed.\n\nADSEC also included Finance disbursement units. These units were employed to compute payrolls, travel vouchers, etc. and prepare disbursements and collections of monies.\n\nADSEC coordinated disbursement of ordnance and munitions to keep the front lines supplied.\n\nADSEC officials were responsible for overseeing Red Ball Express transportation activities within the ADSEC Transportation Section.\n\nADSEC units had to anticipate the needs of the advancing armies and provide as close support as possible to the advancing armies as the situations demanded. These units also provided heavy maintenance work for the advancing armies.\n"}
{"id": "2261795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261795", "title": "Newer Technology", "text": "Newer Technology\n\nNewer Technology is an American technology company headquartered in Woodstock, Illinois, that designs and manufactures accessories primarily for Apple, Inc. products.\n\nFounded in 1988 Newer Technology initially focused on manufacturing computer upgrades and accessories such as processor cards, CPU caches, memory, and PowerBook batteries. At its peak in the mid-1990s the company was known in Apple Macintosh communities for its end-of-life extending upgrades. This included user-installable MAXpowr CPU cards that could upgrade an obsolete Macintosh computer across architectures, such as from Motorola 68000 to PowerPC thereby extending the usable life of the computer by years.\n\nNewerTech filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in June of 1996 due to a Apple Macintosh market and sharp decrease in memory prices. An effort to diversify revenue by developing Windows products was announced, but by the end of 2000 and the company was dissolved. The name and remaining intellectual property were purchased in 2001 by Rick Estes, NewerTech's former Vice President of Operations. \n\nIn 2002 their name and products were acquired by Other World Computing and now do business as \"NewerTech an OWC brand\". As of 2019 they continue to supply Macintosh, iPad, and iPhone accessories.\n\n"}
{"id": "2261797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261797", "title": "Glenarm", "text": "Glenarm\n\nGlenarm () is a village in County Antrim, Northern Ireland. It lies on the North Channel coast north of the town of Larne and the village of Ballygalley, and south of the village of Carnlough. It is situated in the civil parish of Tickmacrevan and the historic barony of Glenarm Lower. It is part of Mid and East Antrim Borough Council and had a population of 1,851 people in the 2011 Census. Glenarm takes its name from the glen in which it lies, the southernmost of the nine Glens of Antrim.\n\nDating back to Norman times, the village is the family seat of the MacDonnells, who once occupied Dunluce Castle on the north coast. The village is now a Conservation Area, and its main street (Altmore Street) leads directly to Glenarm Forest, from which can be seen Glenarm Castle, on the far bank of the little river which runs through the village to the sea. The imposing entrance to Glenarm Castle, the Barbican Gate, is at the heart of the village. The Castle dates from 1750, with early 19th century alterations. Glenarm claims to be the oldest town in Ulster, having been granted a charter in the 12th century. The Barbican Gate to Glenarm Castle was restored by the Irish Landmark Trust, a conservation charity that saves buildings that are at risk of being lost.\n\nIn the 5th to 7th centuries (the beginning of the Early Christian period), Glenarm lay within the territory of the kingdom of Dal Riada. This covered coastal County Antrim from Glenarm to Bushmills. The inland boundary was formed by the watershed along the top of the Antrim hills. The coast of Co. Antrim south of Glenarm and west of Bushmills, as well as the lands south of the River Bush lay within the territories of another group of tribes called the Dal nAraide (pronounced Dalnary). A branch of the Dal nAraide, known as Latharna, seems to have occupied the coast from just south of Glenarm to Carrickfergus and beyond.\n\nThe area at one point came under threat from the Vikings who founded their only settlement of note in Ulster at \"Ulfrek's fjord\", present-day Larne. According to Snorri Sturluson, an Icelandic historian, Connor, King of Ireland, defeated the raiding Orkney Vikings at \"Ulfreksfjord\" in 1018. The name Olderfleet is a corruption of \"Ulfrek's fjord\".\n\nThe first castle at Glenarm is recorded in a 1270 Inquisition, where it is shown as being let to John or Robert Bisset by the Bishop of Down and Connor. As the Bissets are shown as tenants of the castle, it is likely it was built some time previously, probably by the de Galloways. It was situated on the site of a present-day Baptist church.\n\nAfter a long war with Elizabeth I of England, political intrigues and the flight of the Irish chiefs overseas at the start of the 17th century, the area was earmarked for plantation by settlers from Great Britain who, being Protestant, were thought more likely to be loyal to the English Crown (see the Plantation of Ulster). This was an ad hoc private enterprise in Antrim and north Down and mainly involved lowland Scots. In 1603 Sir Randall MacDonnell, who in the intervening years had made peace with King James I, used his new-found influence to persuade him to not only grant him his native Glens of Antrim but also the north Antrim Route. However, Larne and its immediate environs were obtained by the English lord Sir Arthur Chichester.\n\nOn their return to Glenarm, a new castle began to be built on the opposite side of the river from the old one, on the site of the present castle. This new castle continued to be improved and added to until Sir Randal MacDonnell's death in 1636. The old castle must also have been repaired during this period as it was leased to the Donaldsons, who were kinsmen of the MacDonnells, at the start of the 17th century. Records show they still held the castle tenement in 1779, but it must have been abandoned before 1835 as a letter from this date refers to the 'foundations of a very extensive old castle which stood in the centre of the town until a few years ago'.\n\nDuring the rebellion of 1641, Alexander MacDonnell, the Earl of Antrim's brother, who was in charge of and resided in Glenarm, fought on the native Irish side. He raised several regiments who were garrisoned in Glenarm under the command of Alester McColl. In 1642 when an invading Scots army, under the command of General Robert Munro, was sent by parliament to deal with the rebels they burnt Glenarm, including the new castle. They captured both Alexander and the Earl and they were imprisoned in Carrickfergus Castle. When peace was brought about the Acts of Settlement and Explanation restored all the MacDonnells' land to them. They did not, however, rebuild the castle in Glenarm at this time, but moved to Dunluce Castle and later Ballymegarry.\n\nIn the 17th century the religious needs of Glenarm were served by a small church and graveyard on Castle Street, at the site of the converted schoolhouse. The foundation date of this church is unknown, but Richard Dobbs, in his 1683 \"Descriptions of the county of Antrim\", describes the church as being one of only three slate roofed buildings in the village. The Bridge into the Castle grounds was constructed beside this church and was completed in 1682. Dobbs also states that a Presbyterian meeting-house was to be found at some distance from the town. The position of this building is unknown, but map evidence suggests that it was in the vicinity of, or more likely under, the current non-subscribing Presbyterian church. Although no Catholic church was present, it is known that Father Edmund O’Moore became Glenarm’s first parish priest. He was ordained in 1669 and began officiating in Glenarm the next year. Due to religious suppression brought on by the Penal Laws, Catholic masses were often held in isolated spots, and there are several sites around Glenarm believed to have been used for this during these times. The closest site to Glenarm is called the Priest's Knowe or the Priest's Green, and it lies close to the Straidkilly Road, less than a mile from the village. An altar stone was known to exist here into the 19th century.\n\nThe 18th century saw the return of Lord Antrim to Glenarm and, with his funding, a number of major construction works were begun. A new castle was built over the remains of the castle destroyed in 1642. An inscribed stone shows that the castle was rebuilt by Alexander the fifth Earl of Antrim in the year 1756. This castle can still be seen as the central block of the current, much expanded, castle. In 1763 an agreement was reached between Lord Antrim and William McBride for the construction of St. Patrick's Church of Ireland on the site of the domestic quarters of the abandoned Franciscan friary. The grounds around the friary appear to have already been used as a graveyard at this time and this new church may have been partially built onto burials.\n\nDuring the Great Irish Famine, the Glens of Antrim did not fare as poorly as the rest of Ireland. The Earl of Antrim, now resident in Glenarm, and the Marquess of Londonderry organised relief schemes of food and money for their tenants and built soup kitchens throughout the Glens. Glenarm’s soup kitchen is believed to have been to the rear of Altmore Street, along the river. The only other major historical event to occur in Glenarm during this period was in 1854, when a cholera epidemic afflicted the town. The epidemic began in the Bridge End Tavern and rapidly spread from house to house. A large percentage of the population eventually succumbed to the disease and was buried in a mass grave near the back wall of the graveyard of St. Patrick's Church.\n\nGlenarm has a local lodge of the Orange Order and a joint Royal Black Preceptory with nearby Carnlough. Glenarm is part of the Braid district No.9 and holds the annual 12 July celebrations 3 out of every 7 years. The local flute band is called Sir Edward Carson Memorial in memory of the famous Unionist leader. Previously there was a branch of the Catholic Ancient Order of Hibernians in Glenarm which paraded in the village, though this is no longer the case. Glenarm like its republican counterpart in the nearby village of Carnlough has cleaned up its public image by removing flags and political emblems to boost tourism in the area though some sectarian tension still exists between elements in the two villages.\n\nOn 21 September 1996 a Protestant, Kenneth Auld, age 47, died four days after being stabbed in a dispute involving the flying of an Ulster flag in Glenarm. Auld had been trying to prevent a group of Republicans from removing the flag when he was stabbed with a screwdriver. A local man was charged with the killing but later acquitted.\n\nGlenarm Forest Park is an nature preserve once part of the demesne of Glenarm Castle, but now in public and maintained by the Ulster Wildlife Trust. Other notable features include a salmon fishery and Glenarm Castle. The most recent addition to the village is the restoration of its distinctive limestone-built harbour. \nGlenarm have three very successful sports teams. There is a Rowing Club (coastal) which trains over the summer months to prepare for the annual all Ireland Rowing Competition. In 2009 the club's Veteran Team won an all-Ireland silver medal at the championships held in Waterville, Co Kerry. The club which was founded in the late 19th century has been enjoying a revival in recent years and holds regular regattas with two other local coastal rowing clubs in Carnlough and Cairndhu Four oared gig racing has a measure of popularity in the village . Up until recently craft for this sport were the product of local boat builders and during the summer crews may be seen training out on the bay. A highlight of the gig racing calendar is the Annual Regatta which takes place in summer time and attracts crews from local clubs to take part in the local challenge. The local rowing club is Glenarm Rowing Club, who have over 10 members and are part of the Irish Coastal Rowing Federation. 2009's All Ireland a combined crew of Glenarm and Carnlough won a silver in the Veteran Men. The club was featured on the BBC documentary programme Coast.\n\nThere is also Glenarm Rovers F.C. that play Saturday morning football, managed by Terry Hastings. Glenarm Rovers have been promoted the two previous seasons but have struggled in their current division, though they managed to beat the drop.\n\nShane O'Neills GAA Club play just outside Glenarm in Feystown and field hurling teams at various adult and juvenile levels.\n\n\nGlenarm village was used in the film \"The Boys from County Clare\" (2003) which also used other locations in the Glens of Antrim. Glenarm Castle itself was used in \"Five Minutes of Heaven\". The Christmas film A Christmas Star had scenes filmed near the marina of Glenarm village. BBC drama My Mother and Other Strangers used Altmore Street as its WWII setting during spring 2016 filming. Game of Thrones used Glenarm’s scenic background as one of many County Antrim’s cameo in the American HBO series.\n\nGlenarm is classified as a small village or hamlet by the NI Statistics and Research Agency (NISRA) (i.e. with population between 500 and 1,000 people).\nOn Census day (27 March 2011) there were 1,851 people living in Glenarm. Of these:\n\nFor more details see: NI Neighbourhood Information Service\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2261805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261805", "title": "A Gangster and a Gentleman", "text": "A Gangster and a Gentleman\n\nA Gangster and a Gentleman is the debut studio album by American rapper Styles. The album was released on July 9, 2002, through Ruff Ryders Entertainment and Interscope Records. Styles was the second member of The LOX to record a solo album, after \"Kiss Tha Game Goodbye\" by Jadakiss was released in 2001.\n\nThe album contains production by New York hip-hop producer Swizz Beatz, who Styles had worked with previously on various Ruff Ryders recordings including the sophomore album \"We Are the Streets\" by The LOX. Californian hip-hop producer Alchemist contributes two tracks. Guest performers include members of the Ruff Ryders collective Swizz Beatz, Jadakiss, Sheek Louch, J-Hood and Eve, as well as Angie Stone, Lil' Mo, M.O.P. and Pharoahe Monch.\n\nThe album was certified Gold by RIAA on October 11, 2002.\n\nThe lead single \"Good Times\" peaked at number 22 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart and received massive nationwide airplay in 2002. The Ayatollah-produced bonus track \"The Life\" featuring Pharoahe Monch was also released as a single in 2002 through Rawkus Records.\n\n"}
{"id": "2261823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261823", "title": "Mickey Z", "text": "Mickey Z\n\nMichael Zezima (known as Mickey Z) is a writer, editor, blogger and novelist living in New York City. He writes a bimonthly column, \"Mickey Z. Says\", for \"VegNews\" magazine and he has also appeared on the C-SPAN network's Book TV program. He is also a regular contributor to Planet Green, ZNet, CounterPunch, OpEdNews, Animal Liberation Front, and other websites.\n\nMickey Z. was born and raised in Astoria, Queens, has appeared in a book with Noam Chomsky, and in a martial arts film with Billy Blanks. With only a high school diploma, he has authored 12 books and has \"spoken and lectured in venues ranging from MIT to ABC No Rio, from Yale University to Occupy Free University. Howard Zinn called him 'provocative and bold.'\"\n\nMichael Zezima adopted the name Mickey Z after working at a gym in New York City where a friend called him Mickey. He liked the sound of it and used it in his pen name.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2261829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261829", "title": "Panzer Division Müncheberg", "text": "Panzer Division Müncheberg\n\nPanzer-Division \"Müncheberg\" was a German panzer division which saw action on the Eastern Front around Berlin during World War II.\n\nPanzer-Division Müncheberg began forming on 8 March 1945 in Müncheberg, Germany. The majority of the division's staff and panzer troops were drawn from the 103rd Panzer Brigade, which had been dissolved three days before; the brigade's commander, Major General Werner Mummert, was placed in command of the division.\n\nThe Müncheberg Division received several Panther (Type G) tanks equipped with Sperber Infrared (IR) systems, as well as a company of Panzergrenadiers equipped with Sperber IR systems. The division received several of the superheavy Jagdtigers, as well as several King Tigers, and the last five Tiger Is to be sent to the front. By 12 March the division's strength was 6,836 men. On 18 March the men from an infantry battalion of the Leibstandarte SS Adolf Hitler division were used to bolster the division's strength.\n\nAs the advancing Soviet forces neared Müncheberg, the partly formed Müncheberg Division was ordered to move east as the mobile reserve for the Ninth Army, which was part of Army Group Vistula.\n\nThe town of Küstrin lies roughly 70 km to the east of Berlin. Adolf Hitler had declared that the town was to be a fortress (\"Festung\"). Unlike other so-called fortress towns and cities, \"Festung Küstrin\" was indeed a fortress. The forces of Marshal Vasily Chuikov had reached the outskirts of Küstrin on 31 January and attempted to secure a bridgehead across the Oder. Bridgeheads were established to the north and south of Küstrin, but the Soviet forces could not consolidate their bridgehead until Küstrin was captured. Chuikov's forces, hesitant to attack the well-defended fortress, began attempts to surround Küstrin.\n\nDespite repeated Soviet attacks, the narrow strip of land between Busse's 9th Army and Küstrin, dubbed the \"Küstrin Corridor\", was kept open. On 22 March a major Soviet effort to sever the corridor went into action. The Soviet plan consisted of an inner and outer encirclement. The inner encirclement succeeded quickly, and the corridor was cut. \"Müncheberg\" went into action on 22 March alongside XXXIX Panzer Corps. By 25 March the outer encirclement was completed, trapping several German units including a platoon from the \"Müncheberg\".\n\nOn 27 March, the Germans launched a counter-offensive aimed at re-opening the Küstrin Corridor. \"Müncheberg\" was subordinated to XXXIX Panzer Corps for the attack. The corps was unable to break through to the city. A Soviet counter-attack hit the 20th Panzergrenadier Division and soon the attack was in disarray, with elements of the 20th falling back in a disorganised rout. After the failure of the Küstrin counter-attack, \"Müncheberg\" was pulled out of the line to be refitted.\n\nOn 16 April the Red Army launched an offensive operation across the Alte Oder aimed at capturing Berlin. From this date until the end of the war, \"Müncheberg\" was in constant combat. On 20 April \"Müncheberg\", together with its neighboring formation 11th SS Volunteer Grenadier Division Nordland fell back into Berlin itself.\n\nThe division was pushed back into Berlin itself by the advancing Soviet forces. The remnants of the \"Müncheberg\" were positioned in the north-eastern sector of Berlin, north of the River Spree. By this stage, the division retained roughly a dozen tanks and about thirty halftracks.\n\nOn 25 April, General Helmuth Weidling, the recently appointed commander of the defence of Berlin, ordered Mummert to take command of the LVI Panzer Corps, command of the \"Müncheberg\" being handed over to Colonel Hans-Oscar Wöhlermann, the artillery commander (ArKo) for the city. On 26 April \"Müncheberg\", along with \"Nordland\", was ordered to attack towards Tempelhof Airport and Neukolln. With its last ten panzers, the \"Müncheberg\" initially made progress, but several local Soviet counter-attacks soon halted the advance.\n\nAround noon on 26 April Wöhlermann was released from command and Mummert was reinstated as commander of the division. The following is from the diary of an officer with the \"Müncheberg\" Division and describes the evening of 26 April.\nScarlet night. Heavy artillery fire. Uncanny silence. We get shot at from many houses. Foreign workers, no doubt. From the Air Ministry comes news that General Erich Bärenfänger has been relieved of his post of commander of the Berlin garrison. One hour later we hear that General Weidling is our new commander. General Mummert takes charge of the Tank Corps... \nOn 27 April, very early in the morning, Hitler ordered the flooding of the Berlin underground to slow the advancing Red Army. Hitler's order resulted in the drowning of many German soldiers and civilians who had taken refuge in the tunnels. The diary of the officer with the \"Müncheberg\" Division went on to describe the flooding.\n\n\"See also History of the Berlin U-Bahn\"\n\nAs the division fought in Wilmersdorf, the encirclement of Berlin was completed and the remnants of the \"Müncheberg\" were trapped. The diary of the officer with the \"Müncheberg\" Division also described the \"flying courts-martial\" prevalent at this time:\nFlying courts-martial unusually prominent today. Most of them very young SS officers. Hardly a decoration among them. Blind and fanatical. The hope of relief and the fear of these courts bring men back to the fighting. General Mummert refuses to allow any further courts-martial in the sector under his command... He is determined to shoot down personally any courts-martial that appears... We cannot hold the Potsdamer Platz and move through the subway tunnel to Nollendorferplatz. In the tunnel next to ours, the Russians are advancing in the opposite direction. \n\nOn 30 April, Hitler committed suicide. The \"Müncheberg\", 18th Panzergrenadier Division along with a few Tiger IIs from SS Heavy Panzer Battalion 103 were engaged in heavy fighting near the Westkreuz and Halensee train stations and on the Kurfurstendamm. By 1 May the division had been pushed back to the Tiergarten and was fighting to defend the Zoo Flak Tower, the shelter of thousands of civilians. The \"Müncheberg's\" last operating panzer, a Tiger 1, was abandoned on the Unter den Linden straße a hundred metres from the Brandenburg Gate.\n\nThe division, together with the remnants of 18th Panzergrenadier, attempted to escape Berlin to the west, to surrender to the Americans. On 3 May the divisions had reached a crossing over the Havel River in Spandau, under fire by the Red Army. Those who made it across the bridge found that they were surrounded by the Soviet forces; on the same day, the division ceased to exist.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2261838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261838", "title": "Zonisamide", "text": "Zonisamide\n\nZonisamide is a medication used to treat the symptoms of epilepsy and Parkinson's disease. Chemically it is a sulfonamide. It serves as an anticonvulsant used primarily as an therapy in adults with Parkinson's disease, partial-onset seizures; infantile spasm, mixed seizure types of Lennox–Gastaut syndrome, myoclonic and generalized tonic clonic seizure. Despite this it is also sometimes used as a monotherapy for partial-onset seizures.\n\nZonisamide is approved in the United States, and United Kingdom for adjunctive treatment of partial seizures in adults and Japan for both adjunctive and monotherapy for partial seizures (simple, complex, secondarily generalized), generalized (tonic, tonic-clonic (grand mal), and atypical absence) and combined seizures. In Australia it is marketed as both an adjunctive therapy and monotherapy for partial seizures only.\n\nIt has been approved for the treatment of the motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD), as an adjunct to levodopa, in a few countries such as Japan. In Japan, zonisamide has been used as an adjunct to levodopa treatment since 2009. In addition, there is clinical evidence that zonisamide in combination with levodopa control of motor symptoms of PD but evidence for the treatment of the non motor symptoms of PD lacking.\n\nIn an open-label trial zonisamide attenuated the symptoms of tardive dyskinesia.\n\nIt has also been studied for obesity with significant positive effects on body weight loss and there are three ongoing clinical trials for this indication. It was to be sold, when combined with bupropion, under the brand name Empatic, until its development was discontinued.\n\nZonisamide has been studied for and used as a migraine preventative medication, when topiramate is either ineffective or cannot be continued due to side effects.\n\nIt has also been used off-label by psychiatrists as a mood stabilizer to treat bipolar depression.\n\nAdverse effects by incidence:\n\nVery common (>10% incidence) adverse effects include:\n\nCommon (1-10% incidence) adverse effects include:\n\nZonisamide and other carbonic anhydrase inhibitors such as topiramate, furosemide, and hydrochlorothiazide have been known to interfere with amobarbital, which has led to inadequate anesthetization during the Wada test. Zonisamide may also interact with other carbonic anhydrase inhibitors to increase the potential for metabolic acidosis.\n\nAdditionally, the metabolism of zonisamide is inhibited by ketoconazole, ciclosporin, miconazole, fluconazole and carbamazepine (in descending order of inhibition) due to their effects on the CYP3A4 enzyme.\n\nZonisamide is not known to inhibit cytochrome P450 enzymes when present at therapeutic concentrations.\n\nZonisamide is an antiseizure drug chemically classified as a sulfonamide and unrelated to other antiseizure agents. The precise mechanism by which zonisamide exerts its antiseizure effect is unknown, although it is believed that the drug blocks sodium and T-type calcium channels, which leads to the suppression of neuronal hypersynchronization (that is, seizure-form activity). It is also known to be a weak carbonic anhydrase inhibitor (similarly to the anticonvulsant topiramate). It is also known to modulate GABAergic and glutamatergic neurotransmission.\n\nVariable, yet relatively rapid rate of absorption with a time to peak concentration of 2.8-3.9 hours. Bioavailability is close to 100% and food has no effect on the bioavailability of zonisamide but may affect the rate of absorption.\n\nZonisamide is metabolized mostly by the CYP3A4 isoenzyme, but also CYP3A7 and CYP3A5, to 2-(sulphamoylacetyl)-phenol via reductive cleavage of the 1,2-benzisoxazole ring.\n\nZonisamide was discovered by Uno and colleagues in 1972 and launched by Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma (formerly Dainippon Pharmaceutical) in 1989 as Excegran in Japan. It was marketed by Élan in the United States starting in 2000 as Zonegran, before Élan transferred their interests in zonisamide to Eisai Co., Ltd. in 2004. Eisai also markets Zonegran in Asia (China, Taiwan, and fourteen others) and Europe (starting in Germany and the United Kingdom). \n\n"}
{"id": "2261850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261850", "title": "Water Taxi Beach", "text": "Water Taxi Beach\n\nWater Taxi Beach was an artificial temporary beach operated from 2005 to 2010 on a wharf on the East River in the Hunters Point section of Long Island City, in the New York City borough of Queens. It was operated by the New York Water Taxi Company and was open to the public for free during the summer months. The beach was also rented for private parties. In concept, Water Taxi Beach is similar to Paris Beach in Paris, France. The beach was operated by Harry Hawk and Tony Rosciglione and partners who ran the beach owned by NY Water Taxi, now Harbor Experience Companies. It was part of a public-private partnership with the Port Authority of NY and NJ.\n\nThe restaurant Harry's at Water Taxi Beach served barbecue-type foods such as hamburgers, hot dogs, beer, wine, and tropical drinks. There was also a full catering menu. In May 2008, Harry's won first place in a contest to determine which restaurant had the best burger in the boroughs.\n\nThe beach concept was created in 2005 as an experiment in community and economic development by New York Water Taxi to attract Manhattanites to Long Island City and to make weekend ferries serving the new residential high-rises near the beach financially viable. The success of the beach has led New York Water Taxi to propose a similar project in Red Hook, Brooklyn.\n\nSince 2007, Water Taxi Beach has been one of the main sites of the annual NYC Food Film Festival.\n\nIn March 2008, additional sand was added to the property, expanding its size and making room for three new beach volleyball courts.\n\nIn 2005, the company started planning service to Governors Island in 2005, started service on June 2, 2008, and opened a Water Taxi beach there on July 10, 2009. A beach was also opened at the South Street Seaport on Memorial Day Weekend, 2009.\n\nWater Taxi Beach was built and located on property owned by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. In 2009, the property was sold to New York City and is now under the control of the Economic Development Corporation (EDC). The land is located next to the Queens West development and is also slated to be redeveloped with residential housing and a waterfront park. Accordingly, the beach closed for construction works related to the development of Hunters Point South, after the 2010 season.\n"}
{"id": "2261864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261864", "title": "The Cheyenne Social Club", "text": "The Cheyenne Social Club\n\nThe Cheyenne Social Club is a 1970 American western comedy film written by James Lee Barrett, directed and produced by Gene Kelly, and starring James Stewart, Henry Fonda and Shirley Jones. The film is about an aging cowboy who inherits a brothel and decides to turn it into a respectable boarding house, against the wishes of both the townspeople and the ladies working there.\n\nIn 1867, John O'Hanlan and Harley Sullivan are aging cowboys working on open cattle ranges in Texas. John gets a letter from an attorney in Cheyenne, Wyoming that his brother, D.J., left him The Cheyenne Social Club in his will. After making the trek to Cheyenne, John and Harley learn The Cheyenne Social Club is a high-class brothel next to the railroad. John falls into disfavor with both the Club's ladies and the men in Cheyenne when he decides to close the Club. John learns his brother's will had a provision the property would revert to the railroad if the ladies moved. Jenny, the Club's madam, is assaulted by a man named Bannister. John kills Bannister and regains popularity. Bannister's relatives come to Cheyenne for revenge, but John, Harley and Jenny successfully fight them off. When advised that even more of the Bannisters' relatives will soon come to town, John transfers ownership of the property to Jenny and he and Harley return to Texas.\n\n\nSet in a brothel with suggestive dialogue, this was one of the few off-color films that James Stewart did. He also specifically asked that his friend Fonda be cast; they had most recently worked together two years previously in \"Firecreek\". Stewart and Fonda's first film together had been the musical comedy \"On Our Merry Way\" (1948), and they had also both appeared in \"How the West Was Won\" (1962) but had no scenes together despite playing best friends.\n\nThe exteriors were shot at two Western film lots near Santa Fe, New Mexico: the Eaves Movie Ranch, which was built for the film, and Bonanza Creek Ranch. The interiors were shot at the Samuel Goldwyn Studios in Hollywood.\n\nA novelisation of the screenplay was written by Phillip Rock.\n\n\"The Cheyenne Social Club\" turned a small profit, and was poorly received by critics. It didn't receive any notoriety until decades later with numerous cable television broadcasts. Barrett's script earned a 1970 Writers Guild of America nomination for \"Best Comedy Written Directly for the Screen\", but lost to Neil Simon for \"The Out-of-Towners\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2261875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261875", "title": "The Island (Paul Brady song)", "text": "The Island (Paul Brady song)\n\n\"The Island\" is a 1985 song by Northern Irish musician Paul Brady, who comes from Strabane in County Tyrone. \n\nThe song appeared on the album 'Back to the Centre', and features Kenny Craddock on piano. The only other instrument is a guitar solo by Phil Palmer The album was produced by long time Brady collaborator Ian Maidman (later known as Jennifer Maidman).\n\nThe start of the song compares the tragic events of the Lebanese Civil War with the Troubles in Northern Ireland in the 1980s. Comments are made on activities in Northern Ireland:\n\"They're rising banners over by the markets /\nWhitewashing slogans on the shipyard wall\".\n\"The Markets\" is a well known Republican area surrounding St George's Market in Belfast, and the shipyard is that of Harland and Wolff in East Belfast, near a Loyalist area. The song then compares the peace and serenity of making love on the island with the hypocrisy of some religious leaders and the tragedy of young people being \"sacrificed\" (on both sides) for political beliefs.\n\nThe song was referred to pejoratively through a refrain of \"the island\" in Christy Moore's song \"The Other Side\", a song in support of those detained in Long Kesh. However, Christy Moore later toned down the lyrics in this song and rerecorded it in 2011 as \"Tyrone Boys\".\n\nSome claim it was written as a condemnation of the 1987 Remembrance Day Massacre. This is impossible, of course, as at the time of its recording, the bombings were not to take place for another two years. There are elements of the song, however, which could be construed as Anti-Terrorism.\n\nNewspaper interview with Paul Brady\n"}
{"id": "2261880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261880", "title": "Mexican Riviera", "text": "Mexican Riviera\n\nThe Mexican Riviera refers collectively to twenty cities and lagoons lying on the western coast of Mexico. Although there are long distances between these cities, they are often collectively referred to as the \"Mexican Riviera\" because of their many oceanfront resorts and their popularity among tourists. Cruise ships often visit three or four of these destinations on their longer cruises. In a 2005 interview Stanley McDonald, the founder of Princess Cruises, mentioned:\n\nThe call of the \"Mexican Riviera\" was coined by Princess Cruise Line. Now everyone refers to it as the Mexican Riviera. I believe that it really spoke to the quality and beauty of what people would see down there. We all know the French Riviera -- the Mexican Riviera was something we had in the western hemisphere.\n\nSome of the many areas that are considered part of the Mexican Riviera, listed in order from north to south:\n\n\nOther areas include other ports in the states of Oaxaca and Nayarit.\n\nIn 2011, Carnival Cruise Lines, Disney Cruise Line and Norwegian Cruise Line all dropped Mazatlan port calls from their itineraries, citing concerns over an increase in drug gang turf war there. Royal Caribbean dramatically scaled back its presence in all of the Mexican Riviera that same year, canceling 15 cruises that were scheduled to sail through the region in 2011. The cruise line cited economic reasons for its decision.\n\n\"Riviera\" in Italian means simply \"coastline\". The word by itself often refers to either the French Riviera or the Italian Riviera. \"Riviera\" may be also applied to any coastline, especially one that is sunny, topographically diverse and popular with tourists.\n\n"}
{"id": "2261881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261881", "title": "Gap, North Carolina", "text": "Gap, North Carolina\n\nGap is an unincorporated community in Stokes County, North Carolina, United States, approximately 5 miles WSW of Danbury, North Carolina, near Hanging Rock State Park, on North Carolina State Highway 66.\n"}
{"id": "2261884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261884", "title": "Peace Thru Vandalism / When in Rome Do as The Vandals", "text": "Peace Thru Vandalism / When in Rome Do as The Vandals\n\nPeace Thru Vandalism / When in Rome Do as The Vandals is a compilation album by the southern California punk rock band The Vandals. It was originally released in 1989 by Restless Records (and later reissued Time Bomb Recordings, a record label founded by Social Distortion frontman Mike Ness). It is a CD re-release of the band's first EP, \"Peace thru Vandalism\", and first LP, \"When in Rome Do as The Vandals\", containing all of the tracks from both releases. The Restless version has the tracks from When In Rome Do As The Vandals first while the Time Bomb version has the two records in chronological order.\n\nIn the album's liner notes Brent Turner is credited as having performed all of the bass tracks on \"When in Rome Do as the Vandals\", however by the time of that album's release Chalmer Lumary had joined the band on the bass position. Lumary is therefore listed in the liner notes as the band's official bass player. The linear notes also erroneously list Joe Escalante as writing and composing the entirety of the album's content, whereas the majority was written by Stevo and Jan Nils Ackermann. Furthermore, many tracks from \"Peace Thru Vandalism\" had been written and performed prior to Escalante's involvement in the band, adding to the suspicious nature of the inclusion.\n\n\nWriting credits are as they appear on the original Restless Records CD. Later versions credit all songs to Joe Escalante.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2261885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261885", "title": "Ronald F. Maxwell", "text": "Ronald F. Maxwell\n\nRonald “Ron” F. Maxwell is a film director and writer from Clifton, New Jersey. He is most famous for writing and directing the American Civil War epics \"Gettysburg\" (1993), \"Gods and Generals\" (2003), and \"Copperhead\" (2013).\n\nIn 2007, Maxwell optioned the film rights to novelist Speer Morgan's 1979 book \"Belle Starr\" about the legendary female outlaw of the Old West.\n\nA native of New Jersey, Maxwell attended Clifton High School. He graduated from New York University (NYU) Institute of Film 1970. Maxwell is a member of the Writers Guild of America, Directors Guild of America and the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.\n\nIn May 2011, Warner Bros. released director's cuts of \"Gods and Generals\" and \"Gettysburg\".\n\nIn 2012, Maxwell produced and directed his third Civil War feature, \"Copperhead\", with a screenplay by Bill Kauffman. Filming was completed in New Brunswick, Canada in June, 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "2261887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261887", "title": "Razor Hill", "text": "Razor Hill\n\nRazor Hill, also known as Che Kwu Shan () indigenously, is a hill between Pik Uk, Ta Ku Ling, Tseung Kwan O, and Tai Po Tsai in the New Territories of Hong Kong. It is 432 metres tall. The north and east mid slope is skirted by Clear Water Bay Road.\n\n"}
{"id": "2261891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261891", "title": "University of Chemistry and Technology, Prague", "text": "University of Chemistry and Technology, Prague\n\nThe University of Chemistry and Technology, Prague (UCT Prague, , VŠCHT Praha) is the largest university specializing in chemistry in the Czech Republic. Though founded in 1952, UCT Prague has origins dating back to the early nineteenth century and Prague Polytechnic, a precursor to the present-day Czech Technical University in Prague, and, since that time, it has been one of the leading chemistry research universities in Central Europe. More than 3,600 students are accepted every year. In 2014, UCT Prague had 510 academic staff and 361 research staff.\n\nThe university has four faculties.\n\nThe Faculty of Chemical Technology was established in 1969 as a result of the merger between the Faculty of Inorganic Technology and the Faculty of Organic Technology. In 1952, these faculties, together with the Faculty of Food Technology, founded the independent Institute of Chemical Technology (now: UCT Prague).\n\nThe Faculty of Environmental Technology was established in 1953, but activities in this area date back to the mid-1880s. In the 1980s, environmental technology became predominant in the faculty's activities, and in 1991, it acquired its current name.\n\nThe teaching of food chemistry and technology has a long-standing tradition in the Czech lands, and is closely connected with the teaching of chemistry and chemical technology. The Faculty of Food and Biochemical Technology was established in 1952.\n\nThe Faculty of Chemical Engineering originated in the Prague School of Chemical-Technological Engineering founded in 1952 as part of the Czech Technical University. In 1960, the faculty was established in response to meet the needs of the chemical industry.\n\nThe history of the university is rooted in the chemistry education in Bohemia from past centuries. Rapid industrial development during the eighteenth century, which is connected to many important technological and natural discoveries, resulted in the foundation of Prague Polytechnic on 10 November 1806, when the first courses in mathematics and chemistry were offered. In addition to general chemistry, practical chemistry instruction was also given, oriented towards working with glass, metallurgy and dyes. Later, brewing processes, sugar processes, analytics, analytics of minerals and technical gases, and other subject fields were added.\n\nAfter the reorganization of Prague Polytechnic in 1920, the School of Chemical Technology was formed as one of seven sections of the Czech Technical University in Prague. The school's reputation at the end of nineteenth century was very high, and professor Emil Votoček (1872-1950) improved its excellent international reputation into the early twentieth century. The highest awards for university students and exceptional personalities in Czech chemistry carry his name.\n\nThe present university was formed in 1952 when it became independent of the Czech Technical University in Prague.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2261894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261894", "title": "Dirk dance", "text": "Dirk dance\n\nA dirk dance is a Scottish dance performed while brandishing a dirk. It is a solo dance but can be performed by two or more people dancing in unison. The dance is quite different in style from the better known Highland dances and in many ways imitates the use of a dirk in fighting. Research suggests that the dance may, in fact, have originated as a series of moves for training in the use of the dirk. There are records showing that a Dirk Dance was included in Highland Dance competitions in 1841. \n\nThe dance was recorded by J. F. and T. M. Flett in their book, \"Traditional Step-Dancing in Scotland\", after they learned it from Mary Isdale Mac Nab of Vancouver. She in turn had learned the dance in the 1900s from Scottish piping and dance champion, D.C. Mather. Another tradition of dirk dance, now lost, involved two dancers. In this dance, one is \"killed\" with the dirk, but then resurrected by his/her sorrowful partner. A dirk dance from the Isle of Man was also recovered by Manx folk researcher, Mona Douglas. In this version, the dancer wields a dagger.\n\nHighland dance was also performed with other weapons including the Lochaber axe, the broadsword, flail, and paired targe and dirk. The Highland Dirk Dance resembles a combative dance similar to those of Indonesian Pentjak Silat, which has the performer executing knife techniques combined with wrestling style kicks, trips and sweeps. One version of the dance involved attacking and defensive techniques with single-sticks and targe shields and was last performed in Britain in 1850 by two brothers named MacLennan, one of whom was a colleague of Mr Mather.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2261902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261902", "title": "Race and Slavery in the Middle East", "text": "Race and Slavery in the Middle East\n\nRace and Slavery in the Middle East: an Historical Enquiry is a 1990 book written by the British historian Bernard Lewis. The book details the Islamic history of slavery in the Middle East from its earliest incarnations until its abolition in the various countries of the region.\n\nThough the book details specifically the role that Islam has had in slavery in the Middle East, the author offers a brief statement at the beginning of the book stating that there were other religions who sanctioned slavery in their history such as Christianity, Judaism and Zoroastrianism and Pagan religions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2261920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261920", "title": "Zinc acetate", "text": "Zinc acetate\n\nZinc acetate is a salt with the formula Zn(CHCO), which commonly occurs as the dihydrate Zn(CHCO)·2HO. Both the hydrate and the anhydrous forms are colorless solids that are commonly used in chemical synthesis and as dietary supplements. Zinc acetates are prepared by the action of acetic acid on zinc carbonate or zinc metal. When used as a food additive, it has the E number E650.\n\nZinc acetate has been used in lozenges for treating the common cold. Zinc acetate can also be used to treat zinc deficiencies. As an oral daily supplement it is used to inhibit the body's absorption of copper as part of the treatment for Wilson's disease. Zinc acetate is also sold as an astringent in the form of an ointment, a topical lotion, or combined with an antibiotic such as erythromycin for the topical treatment of acne. It is commonly sold as a topical anti-itch ointment.\n\nIndustrial applications include wood preservation, manufacturing other zinc salts, polymers, manufacture of ethyl acetate, as a dye mordant, and analytical reagent. It is used in commercial nuclear power plants as a plating inhibitor on primary water piping.\n\nIn anhydrous zinc acetate the zinc is coordinated to four oxygen atoms to give a tetrahedral environment, these tetrahedral polyhedra are then interconnected by acetate ligands to give a range of polymeric structures. In contrast, most metal diacetates feature metals in octahedral coordination with bidentate acetate groups.\n\nIn zinc acetate dihydrate the zinc is octahedral, wherein both acetate groups are bidentate.\n\nHeating Zn(CHCO) in a vacuum results in a loss of acetic anhydride, leaving a residue of basic zinc acetate, with the formula ZnO(CHCO). This cluster compound has the tetrahedral structure shown below. This species closely resembles the corresponding beryllium compound, although it is slightly expanded with Zn-O distances ~1.97 vs ~1.63 Å for BeO(OAc).\n\n"}
{"id": "2261923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261923", "title": "Heiligenstadt, Vienna", "text": "Heiligenstadt, Vienna\n\nHeiligenstadt (in German: Wien Heiligenstadt; Central Bavarian: \"Heiligenstod\") was an independent municipality until 1892 and is today a part of Döbling, the 19th district of Vienna.\nHeiligenstadt is one of the 10 municipalities in the Döbling District.\n\nHeiligenstadt lies on flat land abutting the Danube canal and forms a thin strip that stretches to the north-west as far as Leopoldsberg. The municipality covers an area of 219.46 hectares, bordering in the north on Nußdorf and Josefsdorf, in the west on Grinzing, and in the south on Unterdöbling and Oberdöbling. The Probusgasse was once the main street of the village of Heiligenstadt and today marks the centre of the municipality.\n\nThe name Heiligenstadt (Holy city) suggests that there was already a holy site in this area before the arrival of Christianity. The first record of a settlement dates to 1120 and refers to it as \"St. Michael\". The Archangel Michael is also depicted in Heiligenstadt's coat of arms. The term \"Sanctum Locum\" (Heiligenstadt) first appears in documents at the end of the 12th century, although it is unclear which holy site is being referred to. The theory that Saint Severinus of Noricum once lived here has been disproved.\n\nHeiligenstadt was first settled more than 5000 years ago. Traces of Roman settlement have also been found. In 1872, remains of a wall were found in Heiligenstadt that prove that a Roman tower, part of the limes once stood in this area. A Roman cemetery has also been found near the Jakobskirche (St. James’ Church), as has an Avar tomb from the 6th century. The Franks followed, settling in Heiligenstadt for the first time around 900. Originally, settlement centred on the area around the modern-day Pfarrplatz and included the first church in the area. The inhabitants were farmers who were largely reliant on their own produce. They also caught crabs and fish in the western arm of the Danube (where today the Heiligenstädter Straße is located). Wine was produced for sale; wine cellars can to this day be found in the side of the hill beside the Heiligenstädter Straße. The Klosterneuburg Monastery owned vineyards in Heiligenstadt as early as 1250. In 1304, bishop Weinhardt von Passau gave the monastery the right to take over the parish Heiligenstadt after the death of the parish priest. In the Middle Ages, Heiligenstadt was one of the richer settlements in the area. A school is documented in 1318; it was probably the only one in the area. Like many other towns on the outskirts of Vienna, Heiligenstadt suffered greatly in the turmoils of the 15th and 16th centuries. Matthias Corvinus laid waste to Heiligenstadt in 1484, while Turkish plundering during the first siege of Vienna in 1529 greatly damaged the Jakobskirche and the Michaelskirche (St. Michael's Church). It was however possible to restore the latter in 1534 thanks to donations made by the inhabitants of Döbling, Grinzing, Nußdorf and Heiligenstadt (all of which belonged to this parish).\n\nThe Reformation left Heiligenstadt largely untouched, but in 1683 the settlement fell victim to the second siege of Vienna. Many of the inhabitants of Heiligenstadt were massacred; the name of the Blutgasse (Blood Street) still recalls this event. The devastation was so complete that the settlement resembled a wasteland. Heiligenstadt's economy did not recover until the 18th century, when local cattle and fruit became popular at markets in Vienna. Heiligenstadt's recovery was helped at the end of the 18th century by the construction of a public bath that made use of a hot-water spring. As many as 300 people visited the bath and adjoining restaurant every day.\n\nIn the summer months Heiligenstadt was a tourist spot. Ludwig van Beethoven lived there from April to October 1802 while coming to terms with his growing deafness. It was a difficult time for the composer. In a letter to his brothers, the famous Heiligenstadt Testament, he shared thoughts of suicide. But he returned from the town with a rejuvenated outlook as well as new priorities in his music (the start of his \"Middle Period\"), and lived for a further 25 years.\n\nThe hot-water spring dried up in the second half of the 19th century, and a park was eventually opened where the bath once stood. Yet the town's reputation for favorable summer weather continued to grow, and members of Vienna's bourgeoisie continued to settle in Heiligenstadt. In 1851, the Zentralanstalt für Meteorologie und Geodynamik (Central Bureau for Meteorology and Geodynamics), Austria's state meteorological and geophysical service, was established at the Hohe Warte. Heiligenstadt Cemetery was founded in 1873.\n\nHeiligenstadt's growth was rapid in the 18th and 19th centuries. In 1795 there were 60 houses with 470 inhabitants, who lived in three streets near where the Grinzinger Straße, Probusgasse, Hohe Warte, and Armbrustergasse are now. By 1832 there were 677 inhabitants in 94 houses. By 1870 the figures had jumped to 3393 inhabitants in 244 houses. Around 1890 several factories were opened in Heiligenstadt, and the number of inhabitants rose to 5579. In the space of 60 years, the number of houses had more than tripled. The 6000 m² Heiligenstadt pond, in which the residents used to bathe, fell victim to this construction boom. It became a problem as a result of pollution and was filled in the 1920s.\n\nIn 1892, Heiligenstadt was officially integrated into the city of Vienna together with the surrounding suburbs Sievering, Grinzing, Oberdöbling, Unterdöbling, Nußdorf and Kahlenbergerdorf.\n\nIn 1898, the Heiligenstadt train station, designed by Otto Wagner, was opened as a transfer point between the Emperor Franz Joseph Railway, which had entered service in 1870, the Wiener Stadtbahn, and the Vorortelinie. Today, the station is also an important bus station for busses within Vienna and towards Klosterneuburg.\n\nFollowing World War I, the social democrat municipal government pursued a policy of building affordable accommodation in order to improve the miserable living conditions of the working classes. To this end, the enormous Karl-Marx-Hof was constructed in Heiligenstadt on land where until the 12th century there had been an arm of the Danube that was deep enough for ships to use and where fruit and vegetable gardens had later stood. The complex, which includes 1382 apartments, was constructed by Karl Ehn, one of Otto Wagner's students and technical director for the City of Vienna. The Karl-Marx-Hof later became famous for its role in the 1934 February Uprising when rebellious workers took shelter in the building.\n\nViticulture was still playing an important role in the local economy at the start of the 19th century. 30% of available land were used for vineyards, a further 25% for agriculture. Pasture made up another 20% and around 8% were used to grow fruit. At the end of the 18th century however, the first factories were opened in Heiligenstadt. At number 135 in the Heiligenstädter Straße, a sulphuric acid factory was opened that only closed again in 1939. Other notable companies included Barawitzka (known later as Engel), which produced parquet here between 1838 and 1932, the machine factory Heinrich (1840 to 1964) and the Just-Leitern-AG, which was founded in 1885 and still operates in Lower Austria. Its factory was at number 125 in the Heiligenstädter Straße. Heiligenstadt's industrial prominence was recognised following the creation of the Döbling district, when the area from the Heiligenstädter Straße to the Danube canal was declared an industrial zone. There were however also important companies in the centre of Heiligenstadt. From 1889, the Pokornygasse 7 was home to a factory where coffee was roasted, a producer of coffee substitutes and a wine cellar all belonging to the Kunz brothers. From 1919, pralines were also being produced in the Gatterburggasse. The production was sold to the Julius Meinl AG in 1935.\n\nFirst Vienna F.C. established on 22 August 1894, it is the country's oldest team and has played a notable role in the history of the game in Austria. They play at the Hohe Warte Stadium, also the home of Vienna Vikings American football team.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2261950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261950", "title": "Karl Fortlage", "text": "Karl Fortlage\n\nKarl Fortlage (; 12 June 1806 – 8 November 1881) was a German philosopher.\n\nBorn in Osnabrück, Fortlage taught in Heidelberg and Berlin before becoming professor of philosophy at Jena in 1846 (1846 associate professor, 1860 honorary professor), a post he held until his death. Originally a follower of Hegel, he turned to Fichte and the psychologist Friedrich Eduard Beneke, agreeing with his assertion that psychology is the basis of all philosophy. The fundamental idea of his psychology is impulse, which combines representation (thereby presupposing consciousness) and feeling (i.e. pleasure). Reason is the highest thing in nature, i.e. it is divine in its nature. God is the absolute Ego, and the empirical egos are his instruments.\n"}
{"id": "2261953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261953", "title": "Roger Dobkowitz", "text": "Roger Dobkowitz\n\nRoger Kurt Dobkowitz (born July 30, 1945 in San Francisco, California) is an American television producer best known for his 24-year tenure on the CBS game show \"The Price Is Right\". In addition to \"The Price Is Right\", Dobkowitz also worked on other game shows, such as \"Family Feud\", \"Double Dare\", \"Now You See It\", and \"Match Game\". Dobkowitz graduated from San Francisco State University in 1972 after completing a thesis, \"An Historical Study of Prime-Time Network Audience Participation Shows 1948-1968\". \n\nDobkowitz started as a member of the production staff with \"The Price Is Right\" when the show debuted in 1972, and became a producer in 1984. He created eighteen of the show's pricing games (one of which, Gas Money, debuted on the first new episode after his departure). He won five Emmy Awards for his work on the show.\n\nDobkowitz left \"Price\" in July 2008, following production on the show's 36th season. While \"Variety\" reported that it was unclear whether his termination was voluntary, Drew Carey stated in an interview with \"Esquire\" that Dobkowitz was fired by new executive producer Mike Richards. It was likely due to the show going in a \"new direction\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2261954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261954", "title": "South China AA", "text": "South China AA\n\nSouth China Athletic Association (also known as South China, SCAA, ) is a football club which currently competes in the Hong Kong First Division, the second-tier league in Hong Kong football league system. The club is historically one of the most successful football clubs in Hong Kong, having won a record 41 First Division titles, a record 31 Senior Shields, a record 10 FA Cups and 3 League Cups. The club has a very long history in playing in the top-tier league, but decided to self-relegate after the end of the 2016–17 season.\n\nNicknamed \"Shaolin Temple\" and \"Caroliners\", South China has produced many great over the years. In November 2007, the club entered into a charity partnership with Hong Kong Red Cross. The partnership is a pioneer between a sports association and a humanitarian organisation in Hong Kong.\n\nThe club plays most of its home matches at Happy Valley Recreation Ground.\n\nThe Chinese Football Team was founded in 1904 by a group of Chinese students in Hong Kong, including Mok Hing () and Tong Fuk Cheung (, the captain of China national football team in the 1910s). In 1910, the team was renamed as South China Football Club.\n\nIn the 1917 Far Eastern Games and 1919 Far Eastern Games (also known as the Far East Olympics Tournament), the club represented the Republic of China and won the football championship. It is the only team in Hong Kong sports history to have accomplished this feat. China lost in the final to the Philippines in the first to be held, in 1913,\nbut in the next nine it won every time, right through until the last FECG to be held in 1934. On that occasion China was a joint winner with Japan. Throughout these tournaments, the majority of the China team was composed of SCAA players.\n\nIn 1920, South China which began as a club called the South China Athletic Association founded by Mok Hing.\n\nAround 1920–1922, the club formally adopted the present name of South China Athletic Association and diversified into other sports such as basketball.\n\nSince its foundation, South China had a Chinese only whereby the club would only field players of Chinese ethnicity. In keeping with this policy, the club would only sign foreign players had Chinese ancestry such as Edmund Wee, Chow Chee Keong and Chan Kwok Leung. Up until the 1980s, the policy did have a negative effect on results. \n\nHowever, when professional football took off in Hong Kong, the club could not cope with the influx of foreign players and performed poorly at the beginning of the 1981–1982 season. Therefore, on 2 November 1981 the club voted to end its six decade old Chinese only policy. Although the club was able to avoid relegation that season, it was not incident-free. On 6 June 1982, after the club drew an all-important match with Caroline Hill, the fans rioted outside the stadium that spread onto Causeway Bay. The riot was the largest civil disorder in Hong Kong since the leftist riot in 1967.\n\nAs they failed to beat Citizen in the last game of the 2005–06 season, South China was to be relegated for the first time since 1983. However, on 14 June 2006, the Hong Kong Football Association approved a request from South China to remain in the Hong Kong First Division with the promise of strengthening their squad. Staying true to their word, South China heavily strengthened their squad and coaching staff. As a result, South China successfully regained the First Division League title in the 2006–07 season, and also winning the Hong Kong FA Cup and the Hong Kong Senior Shield, achieving the famous treble.\n\nThe team has gone from strength to strength, while the team has had continued success on the domestic front, winning three consecutive league titles in the process, it has also had success in other international club competitions. The team has reached the semi-finals of the 2009–10 AFC Cup. South China's success has seen the team climb in world club rankings to their new high of 145th, even surpassing other Mainland Chinese clubs which are widely considered to be of a better standard than clubs in Hong Kong. In recent years the South China has taken part in several pre-season exhibition matches with European clubs, with the most notable being a 2–0 win against the English Premier League side Tottenham Hotspur.\n\nMuch of the recent success has been attributed to the former chairman, Steven Lo, and with his shrewd business sense he rebuilt the team as a brand, and played a major role in reigniting interest in the Hong Kong Football League. South China has reinvented their image and have partnered with several organisations and brands. In 2007, South China has enter into a partnership with Hong Kong Red Cross. The partnership is a pioneer between a sports association and a humanitarian organisation in Hong Kong, and South China is the first football team to ever bear the Red Cross emblem on the official kit. The appointment of the fashion brand Giorgio Armani as the official tailor, has allowed South China to join some of the world's elite, with the brand being associated with Chelsea Football Club and the English national team. In celebration of the 100th Anniversary of the establishment of South China Football Team, world-renowned designer Philippe Starck produced a special edition of the \"Peninsula Chair\", with the faces of the team and the chairman printed on.\n\nNicky Butt and Mateja Kežman played for South China during the 2010–11 season.\n\nAhead of the 2014–15 season, AET chairman became the conveynor of the club, promising to spend $18–20 million per season. The domestic season was not initially a successful one as the club finished fourth in the league and did not win any silverware. The saving grace was a Season Playoff victory which allowed the club to directly qualify for the 2016 AFC Cup group stage.\n\nIn 2016–17 South China reached their first cup final in six years, facing Kitchee in the 2016–17 Hong Kong FA Cup Final. However, they were defeated 2–1 and were unable to capture the trophy.\n\nOn 5 June 2017, South China made the shocking announcement that they would voluntarily self-relegate into the First Division. The club and Cheung had recently parted ways, leaving the club with no financial benefactor to support their large salary budget.\n\n \n\nHistorically the most popular club in the city, SCAA is also the most successful football club in Hong Kong, winning the Hong Kong First Division 41 times (all-time ranking 1st), the Senior Shield 31 times (all-time ranking 1st), the now-defunct Hong Kong Viceroy Cup 8 times, the Hong Kong FA Cup 10 times (all-time ranking 1st) and the Hong Kong League Cup 3 times. The team had captured all 4 trophies in seasons 1987–88 and 1990–91. In November 2001, the team was awarded the AFC Team of the Month by the Asian Football Confederation.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"As of 30 May 2014. Only competitive matches are counted. Wins, losses and draws are results at the final whistle; the results of penalty shoot-outs are not counted.\"\n\nOn 3 November 2009, South China and Tottenham Hotspur jointly announced a club partnership in Hong Kong. South China became the first club partner of Spurs in Asia. The partnership is for 2 years with an option to extend further. Besides planning in sharing of best practice in any areas of the technical and business sides of football, Tottenham Hotspur has the first option on South China players at all age levels. Tottenham Hotspur will support South China's coaching development through the exchange of scientific data, coaching materials and visits of coaching staffs to and from both teams. The two clubs will explore the possibility of a joint youth Academy and training centre in Hong Kong or in mainland China.\n\nA new official cheering song for SCAA. It was introduced in the first home match in the 2006–07 season against HKFC. The demo version of the song can be accessed on www.bma.com.hk.\nThis is not the official song of South China, and neither was the original official fans' song. It was sung by Albert Cheung 張武孝(also known as: 大Al/Big Al), and became very well known after being released in 1977, especially during late 1970s and the 1980s; during that period South China was a perennial challenger for the top spots in the league, and the song describes how strong and famous the team was.\n\n"}
{"id": "2261959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261959", "title": "Bixbyite", "text": "Bixbyite\n\nBixbyite is a manganese iron oxide mineral with chemical formula: (Mn,Fe)O. The iron/manganese ratio is quite variable and many specimens have almost no iron. It is a metallic dark black with a Mohs hardness of 6.0 - 6.5. It is a somewhat rare mineral sought after by collectors as it typically forms euhedral isometric crystals exhibiting various cubes, octahedra, and dodecahedra.\n\nIt is commonly associated with beryl, quartz, spessartine, hematite, pseudobrookite, hausmannite, braunite and topaz in pneumatolytic or hydrothermal veins and cavities and in metamorphic rocks. It can also be found in lithophysal cavities in rhyolite. Typical localities are Jhabua and Chhindwara districts, India and the Thomas Range in Juab County, Utah. It is also reported from San Luis Potosi, Mexico; northern Patagonia, Argentina; Girona, Catalonia, Spain; Sweden, Germany, Namibia, Zimbabwe, and South Africa.\n\nBixbyite was named for the American mineralogist Maynard Bixby (1853–1935), responsible for its discovery in 1897. It should not be confused with \"bixbite\", a red form of beryl; to avoid confusion, this name has been deprecated from the CIBJO and the IMA.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2261965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261965", "title": "Carlos Pacheco", "text": "Carlos Pacheco\n\nCarlos Pacheco (; born November 14, 1962) is a Spanish comics artist and penciller. He is best known in the United States for his work on titles such as \"Avengers Forever\", \"\", \"Fantastic Four\", and \"Green Lantern\".\n\nEarly in his career, Carlos Pacheco did some work for Planeta-DeAgostini Comics, an imprint of pan-European publisher Planeta De Agostini. He primarily drew covers, posters and pin-ups for Spanish translated editions of Marvel Comics, published at the time by Planeta under the imprint called Cómics Forum.\n\nHis first published superhero comic was an eight-page story titled \"American Soldier\" with writer and translator Antonio Moreno, and published as a back-up in \"Marvel Héroes\" #41 (May 1991).\n\nHe later teamed up with writer Rafael Marín to create the characters Iberia Inc. and Tríada Vértice, two groups of Spanish superheroes, that starred in two miniseries published by Planeta-DeAgostini Comics under the imprint called \"Línea Laberinto\", with plots by Pacheco and Marin, script by Marin and art by Rafa Fonteriz (in \"Iberia Inc.\") and Jesus Merino (in \"Tríada Vértice\").\nPacheco first got attention in the United States for his work as penciller on \"Dark Guard\", a four-issue Marvel UK title where he worked with writer Dan Abnett and inker Oscar Jimenez. This led to him being offered work by American comic editors leading to Marvel Comics' 1994 \"Bishop\" four issue limited series where he worked with writer John Ostrander and inker Cam Smith. Later that year Pacheco did his first work for DC Comics on \"The Flash\" #93–94 and #99, with writer Mark Waid and inker Jose Marzan Jr..\n\nAfter that Pacheco's next stateside work came in 1995's \"X-Universe\" two-part limited series (a part of the \"Age of Apocalypse\" storyline), published by Marvel. Pacheco was joined by writer Terry Kavanagh and was again inked by Cam Smith. In late 1995 and early 1996, Pacheco and Smith collaborated with writer Warren Ellis on a \"Starjammers\" limited series. This series was successful enough that the creative team was reunited on Marvel's \"Excalibur\" ongoing series for a brief run in 1996. Shortly after this Pacheco became penciller on Marvel's \"Fantastic Four\" for two issues (#415–416), where he worked with writer Tom DeFalco as the title wrapped up in preparation for the \"Heroes Reborn\" storyline. By that point Pacheco's art had become a fan favorite, with his work regularly getting coverage in magazines such as \"Wizard\". In early 1997 Marvel acknowledged this by assigning Pacheco to one of its flagship titles, \"X-Men\", with #62 (March 1997). On that title he worked with writers Scott Lobdell and Joe Kelly and inker Art Thibert and produce the \"\" storyline. He left the series at #75 in May 1998.\n\nAfter \"X-Men\", Pacheco began work on \"Avengers Forever\", a 12-issue limited series, where Pacheco worked with writers Kurt Busiek and Roger Stern and for the first time in the U.S. inker Jesus Merino, who from that point on became Pacheco's regular inker.\n\nPacheco's next assignment was in 2000, a four-issue \"Inhumans\" limited series, co-written with Rafael Marín with pencils by José Ladrönn and Jorge Lucas. Pacheco wrote, again with co-writer Rafael Marín, a return to the \"Fantastic Four\", with vol. 3 #35. This time he took on the co-writing chores (initially with Rafael Marín, later joined by Jeph Loeb) as well as pencilling duties. Pacheco's pencilling contributions were shorter than expected, with his last art contribution coming in #50, and him leaving the series entirely by #54.\n\nHis next substantial work after \"Fantastic Four\" was for DC Comics: \"JLA/JSA: Virtue and Vice\", with writers David S. Goyer and Geoff Johns. This 96-page graphic novel united the Justice League and the Justice Society against common foes in the style of what once had been an annual tradition.\nIn 2003 Pacheco reunited with his \"Avengers Forever\" collaborator Kurt Busiek for the creator-owned fantasy war series \"Arrowsmith\", published by WildStorm. This series envisioned a world where magic is real and the First World War was fought with dragons, spells, vampires and others used as weapons by both sides. The series ran for six issues and there are plans for future series set in that world which would again be written by Busiek and drawn by Pacheco and co-plotted by both.\n\nPacheco returned DC Comics to pencil the \"Absolute Power\" storyline in \"Superman/Batman\" #14–18 (Jan.–April 2005), where he was again joined by writer Jeph Loeb. The two told a tale in which, due to the time-traveling machinations of the Legion of Super-Villains, Batman and Superman took over the world and a group of Freedom Fighters has to rise up against them. Later that year at DC, Pacheco shared alternate monthly pencilling duties with Ethan Van Sciver on the new \"Green Lantern\" series written by Geoff Johns.\n\nFrom 2006–2007, Pacheco worked with Kurt Busiek on DC comics' \"Superman\", illustrating issues #654–658, 662–664, and 667. Due to the difficulty of drawing twelve issues a year, the final chapter of their \"Camelot Falls\" story arc appeared in \"Superman Annual\" #13 (January 2008).\n\nIn 2008, Pacheco produced covers for DC's weekly series \"Trinity\", featuring Batman, Superman and Wonder Woman, and assisted artist J. G. Jones in illustrating the 2008-09 miniseries \"Final Crisis\", on issues #4 to #6.\n\nIn February 2009, \"Comic Shop News\" announced that Pacheco signed an exclusive contract with Marvel. Pacheco's 2009 work included \"\". Pacheco was one of the artists on the \"Age of Ultron\" limited series in 2013 and collaborated with writer Rick Remender on the \"Captain America\" series later that year.\n\nInterior art (except where noted) includes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2261969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261969", "title": "Sparganium", "text": "Sparganium\n\nSparganium (bur-reed) is a genus of flowering plants, described as a genus by Linnaeus in 1753. It is widespread in wet areas in temperate regions of both the Northern and Southern Hemispheres. The plants are perennial marsh plants that can grow to 3.5 m (depending on the species), with epicene flowers.\n\nIt was previously placed alone in the family Sparganiaceae. \"Sparganium\" is closely related to the Typhaceae and the APG III system (2009) includes \"Sparganium\" in that family. It has been determined from phylogenetic analysis to be the closest living relative of the genus Typha (cat-tail).\n\n\"Sparganium\", commonly known as the bur-reed, is a genus of aquatic plants of shallow marshes, ponds and streams. There are 9 species found in the United States and Canada. The stem, which may be floating or emergent, emerges from a buried rhizome, which like many wetland plants, is dependent upon aerenchyma to transport oxygen to the rooting zone. The leaves are strap-like. The flowers are borne in spherical heads, which bear either male or female flowers. The seeds may accumulate in the soil as dense seed banks, which allow the plants to regenerate during low water periods.\n\nSparganium is an important component of aquatic and marsh vegetation in temperate to arctic regions. It provides food and cover for wildlife and waterfowl.\n\nThe genus name Sparganium was published by Linnaeus in Species Plantarum (1753), with two species recognized: S. erectum, and S. natans.\n\nPerhaps the first mention of Sparganium in the English language was made by William Turner (1562). Turner noted that there was no name for the plants in English, and suggested bede sedge or knop sedge. Further, he noted, \"the virtues of Sparganium: The roote is good to be geven wyth wyne agaynste the poyson of serpentes.\"\n\nMany fossil endocarps and a few seeds of †Sparganium pusilloides have been described from middle Miocene strata of the Fasterholt area near Silkeborg in Central Jutland, Denmark. Otherwise the species has been recorded from the Middle Oligocene to the Middle Miocene floras of Central Europe, among these from the Middle Oligocene Haselbacher See clay in Leipzig. Fossils of 20 endocarps of †Sparganium simplex and 1 endocarp of †Sparganium multiloculare have also been described from the Fasterholt area near Silkeborg in Central Jutland, \"S. multiloculare\" is also described from the Oligocene of southern England and the Oligocene and Miocene floras of Central Europe and Western Siberia.\n\n"}
{"id": "2261975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261975", "title": "Mountain View, Stokes County, North Carolina", "text": "Mountain View, Stokes County, North Carolina\n\nMountain View is an unincorporated community in Stokes County, North Carolina, United States, approximately three miles northeast of King.\n"}
{"id": "2261999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261999", "title": "Treble (association football)", "text": "Treble (association football)\n\nA treble in association football is achieved when a club team wins three trophies in a single season. A \"continental treble\" involves winning the club's national league competition, main national cup competition, and a continental trophy. A \"domestic treble\" involves winning three national competitions—normally the league title, the primary cup competition, and one secondary competition.\n\nThis list includes clubs who have won their country's top-tier league and the primary cup competition (the double), in addition to the major continental tournament, all within a single season. This was first achieved in 1967 by Celtic, winning the Scottish Football League, Scottish Cup, and European Cup. They also won the Scottish League Cup that year, making them the only team in history to win the domestic treble and the European Cup (although most European nations do not have a League Cup).\n\nIn total, seven European clubs have achieved the feat since 1967. FC Barcelona is the only club to have won this treble twice. Cruz Azul is the only Mexican team to have won a continental treble, having achieved it twice in 1969 and 1997.\n\nNo South American team has achieved the feat with the above stipulations, with clubs in its most successful nations hampered by the absence of a major domestic knockout cup: the Copa do Brasil only began in 1989, and the Copa Argentina began in 2011; Uruguay still does not have one. In 1962, Brazil's Santos won the Copa Libertadores, the Taça Brasil, and the Campeonato Paulista (São Paulo state championship). In 2019, Flamengo achieved a similar feat by capturing the Copa Libertadores, Campeonato Brasileiro Série A, and Campeonato Carioca (Rio de Janeiro state championship).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262002", "title": "CKUW-FM", "text": "CKUW-FM\n\nCKUW-FM (95.9 MHz) is the campus radio station at the University of Winnipeg in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. The station broadcasts with 450 watts effective radiated power. Its transmitter and antenna are on top of #7 Evergreen Place in Osborne village in Winnipeg, Manitoba.\n\nLocal cultural programs are a large part of the schedule, and a quarter of CKUW's programming consists of spoken word shows covering local news, the entertainment scene, and community/social justice issues. The station operates 24 hours a day 7 days a week with all the programming being done by volunteers. A coverage map of how far the station broadcasts shows in this photo at this link: http://ckuw.ca/index.php/coverage\n\nBeginning as CJUC, the station was started in 1963 by student David Shilliday and physics professor Ron Riddell. In 1968 the call sign was changed to CKUW-FM to mark the founding of the University of Winnipeg. At that time the station operated as a closed circuit station broadcasting to Lockhart Hall lounges, the Buffeteria and the Bulman Students Centre. Despite the small presence on campus, CKUW had a disproportionate effect on the local music scene, including spawning local music magazine \"Stylus\" and launching the career of several local media personalities.\n\nAfter a decade of fundraising and planning for an actual FM radio station, CKUW's licence application was approved by the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) in October 1998. Test broadcasts started on April 27, 1999, and the official kickoff broadcast started on April 30. Station manager Rob Schmidt gave a brief introduction, and the first song was \"That's Entertainment\" by The Jam.\n\nLong time shows featured on CKUW radio include \"Bluesday\" with Rockin' Ronnie, \"People of Interest\" (morning news magazine, formerly \"The Beat\"), \"Say It, Sista!\" (feminist news), \"Black Mask\" (anarchist viewpoints), \"Stylus Radio\" (based on the University of Winnipeg music magazine, \"Stylus\"), \"The Ultra Mega Sports Show\" (sports commentary), and \"Antennas to Heaven\" (political satire). CKUW also airs some popular syndicated talk radio shows from around North America, such as \"Democracy Now!\" and \"Alternative Radio\".\n\nCKUW is volunteer driven and runs as a non profit organization. The station receives its core funding through a student levy at the University of Winnipeg. The levy is responsible for just over half of the stations budget and only covers basic operations.\n\nRadio Camp is a community radio project that CKUW organizes and sponsors every year for kids 12 and under to introduce them to community radio. They are enrolled for two weeks in the month of July to produce two radio shows that broadcast live with their stories and creative input with help from CKUW staff. The purpose is to introduce alternative media to a younger audience while having fun with radio as well.\n\nCKUW Radio Drama is a fairly new community radio program that was implemented in early 2008. A radio drama is a story that is made for radio through the use of script and sound to convey action and dialogue. Funded by the Manitoba Arts Council, the radio drama, \"At the Monarch's Convenience\" takes place in downtown Winnipeg's West End with the fictional Monarch's Convenience Store as the backdrop in the story. It tells the stories of various individuals living in the area of Sargent and Ellice Avenue dealing with problems such as runaway children, vandalism, pregnancy. The characters find a way to deal with the situations in a \"beautiful, moving, and worth their time and effort\". The director of CKUW's Radio Drama is Jason Hooper. A group of writers consisting of students, outside community members and CKUW volunteers help to write and produce the show.\n\nThere are various committees the station has made, such as the Board of Directors and Programming Committee. The Board of Directors is elected by the volunteers to manage the long term issues of the station. The group consists of one university representative, one student union representative, three elected student representatives and four elected community representatives. An Annual General Meeting of CKUW is held once a year for all members to attend and vote on new policies, bylaws, and new members on to the Board of Directors.\n\nAlumni from CKUW include former MuchMusic VJ Bradford How, 92.1 CITI-FM Morning Show Host Joe Aiello, Winnipeg Free Press Columnist Jill Wilson, CBC Producer and DJ Sarah Michaelson (aka Mama Cutsworth), 93.7 CJNU announcer/operator Andy (Drew Williams) Tataryn, radio personality Alan Cross and Power 97 CJKR-FM Music Director Casey Norman.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262015", "title": "Russian State University for the Humanities", "text": "Russian State University for the Humanities\n\nThe Russian State University for the Humanities (RSUH, RGGU; ), is a university in Moscow, Russia with over 14,000 students. It was created in 1991 as the result of the merger of the Moscow Public University (est. 1908) and the Moscow State Institute for History and Archives (est. 1930). The institute occupies a network of historic buildings along the Nikolskaya Street in Kitay-gorod, including the former Moscow Print Yard and the cells of the Zaikonospassky monastery.\n\nThe Moscow Public University was founded in 1908 on the initiative of the eminent Russian patron of the arts, , and played a special role in Russian higher education from its inception. It was the center of enlightened and moral education right up to 1918, realizing the progressive principles of alternative education in conjunction with a sound educational foundation available to all.\n\nThe Moscow State Institute for History and Archives, founded in 1930 as a center for the preparation of archivists, became over the years a focus of scientific research. In its archival pursuits in areas of history and such auxiliary realms as the study of primary sources, archaeology and palaeography, it managed to preserve the very best of Russian research. By the beginning of the 1990s, this institution had achieved university level which naturally enabled it to become the organizational heart of the RSUH, founded in 1991.\n\nRSUH currently comprises seven institutes, eleven faculties, nineteen scientific and educational centers, eight laboratories, and fifty departments. Its principal subdivisions are as follows:\n\n\nIts curriculum extends from preparatory to post-doctoral studies. The university is most renowned for its linguistics, intelligent systems (AI), cliometrics and cliodynamics research groups.\n\nIt also has many ties with universities abroad, including Université Laval, Trinity College, Helwan University and Cairo University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262024", "title": "Nicewood Park", "text": "Nicewood Park\n\nNicewood Park is a seven-acre park located in Newport News, Virginia and maintained by the Newport News Department of Parks, Recreation and Tourism.\n\nNicewood Park is located at the end of Nicewood Drive in Newport News. The park has a large grassy field, a basketball hoop, trash cans, swings, two slides, picnic tables, and many trees. The terrain is mostly flat, although to the right of the park's main entrance it becomes slightly hilly. To the right of the park is a stream which feeds into a sewer. If one is lucky, one may hear or see ducks, birds such as northern cardinals, and butterflies. The park is in a residential area and closes at sunset.\n"}
{"id": "2262031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262031", "title": "Tandem wing", "text": "Tandem wing\n\nA tandem wing aircraft has two main wings, with one located forward and the other to the rear. Both wings contribute to lift. \n\nTandem wing aircraft may be distinguished from:\n\nA tandem wing configuration has two main wing planes, with one located forward and the other to the rear. Compared to a conventional monoplane, where the tailplane exerts a balancing downforce, both tandem wings contribute to lift. In aircraft such as the QAC Quickie Q2, the forward wing may double as support for the landing gear.\n\nIn a tandem wing design the lift vectors on the two wings are spread far apart longitudinally, allowing them to act in concert to achieve stability and control.\n\nTandem wings have also been used on ground-effect vehicles.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262033", "title": "Yaquis de Obregón", "text": "Yaquis de Obregón\n\nThe Yaquis de Obregón is a Mexican baseball team of the \"Liga Mexicana del Pacífico\" (\"Mexican Pacific (Baseball) League\").\n\nThe team was founded on October 8, 1970, and its home stadium was \"Estadio Tomás Oroz Gaytán \" (1971-2015) in October 2016 the new stadium opens. They have been champions of the league on six occasions. The first time was at the 1965–1966 season with Manuel Magallón (Mexico) as coach. The next two occasions were on the 1972–1973 season (coach Dave Garcia, United States) and the 1980–1981 season (coach Lee Sigman, United States). On January 27, 2008 Yaquis won their fourth championship, defeating Venados de Mazatlán 4 games to 1, with Homar Rojas (México) as manager.\n\nManaged by Eddie Díaz (Dominican Republic), the Yaquis won the 2010-11 championship, defeating Algodoneros de Guasave 4 games to 3, and went on to win the 2011 Caribbean Series contested in Mayagüez, Puerto Rico. The Yaquis won a second consecutive season after winning the 2011-2012 championship under Eddie Díaz (Dominican Republic). The Yaquis are the first team of the \"Liga Mexicana del Pacífico\" to win three straight championships. They won the 2012-2013 championship under Eddie Díaz (Dominican Republic) and went on to win the 2013 Caribbean Series, their second in three years. The 2013 Caribbean Series was the first to feature a final game after a Round-robin tournament. The final game lasted 18 inning ending at 2 am local time.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262036", "title": "Fujiwara no Michinori", "text": "Fujiwara no Michinori\n\n, also known as , was an aristocratic Confucian scholar and Buddhist monk in late Heian period Japan. He was one of the chief advisors to Emperor Nijō, and one of the chief allies of Taira no Kiyomori, particularly during the Heiji Rebellion of 1159.\n\nAs the head of the leading faction at Court, Shinzei enjoyed access to the emperor and other privileges which his rival Fujiwara no Nobuyori envied. In early 1160, Shinzei's ally Taira no Kiyomori left the capital with much of his family, thus providing Nobuyori's faction (and his allies, the Minamoto clan) to make a move for power. Some believe this may have been intentional on Kiyomori's part, laying a trap for the Minamoto.\n\nNobuyori and the Minamoto set fire to the Sanjō Palace and abducted both Emperor Nijō and the cloistered Emperor Go-Shirakawa. They then turned on Shinzei's home, destroying it and killing all those inside, with the exception of Shinzei himself, who escaped only to be captured in the mountains near Kyoto and decapitated soon afterward.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262040", "title": "Rhode Island Route 122", "text": "Rhode Island Route 122\n\nRoute 122 is a numbered state highway running in Rhode Island, United States. Its southern terminus is at U.S. Route 1 (US 1) in Pawtucket, and its northern terminus is at the Massachusetts border where it continues as Massachusetts Route 122.\n\nRoute 122 takes the following route through the State:\n\n\nRoute 122 used to extend south along US 1 into Providence then along Randall Street to end at Charles Street (present-day Route 246).\n\n"}
{"id": "2262041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262041", "title": "Matthew of Edessa", "text": "Matthew of Edessa\n\nMatthew of Edessa (, Matteos Uṛhayetsi; born in the second half of the 11th century – 1144) was an Armenian historian in the 12th century from the city of Edessa (, \"Uṛha\"). Matthew was the superior abbot of Karmir Vank' (Red Convent), near the town of Kessoun, east of Marash (Germanicia), the former seat of Baldwin of Boulogne. He relates much about the Bagratuni Kingdom of Armenia, the early Crusades, and the battles between Byzantines and Arabs for the possession of parts of northern Syria and eastern Asia Minor. Byzantine authors such as Joannes Zonaras and Anna Comnena were well versed in their particular spheres, but uninformed regarding Edessa and neighboring lands which are treated by Matthew.\n\nA man of strong convictions, Matthew was born in Edessa sometime in the second half of the 11th century and was a member of the Armenian Apostolic Church. He was a determined opponent of the Greek church as well as the Latin church. Matthew was especially bitter against Frankish settlers, whose avaricious and imperious rule and ingratitude he condemns in his work. He was probably slain during the siege of Edessa by Zengi, atabeg of Mosul in 1144.\n\nMatthew's work, \"Zhamanakagrutyun\" (), or \"Chronicle\", which he probably began writing in 1113 and completed before 1140, is written in a dialect of Western Armenian and is rather chronological, covering two centuries from the second half of the tenth through the second half of the twelfth. In an article published in 1971 by Armenian academician Levon Khachikyan, the author established that one of the sources Matthew used to write his work was that of an 11th-century \"vardapet\" named Hakob Sanahnetsi (Hakob of Sanahin).\n\nHe remains the only primary source of certain information about the political and ecclesiastical events of his time and area. The literary and historical knowledge of Matthew was limited, and some of his chronological data is disputed by modern scholars. Matthew was also a fervent Armenian patriot, lamenting the martyrdom of his people and exalting their heroic deeds. To him, scholars and readers are indebted for the record of two documents of importance — a letter from the Byzantine Emperor John I Tzimisces, to King Ashot III Bagratuni and a discourse delivered in the cathedral of Hagia Sophia, Constantinople, in the presence of the Emperor Constantine X Ducas by Gagik II, the exiled Bagratuni king, concerning the doctrinal divergence between the Greek and Armenian churches.\n\nAccording to some scholars, Matthew was intolerant towards both Greeks and Latins, as well as unsympathetic towards Syrians, judging by allusions made by Abul-Faraj at a later date.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262043", "title": "Dodgetown, North Carolina", "text": "Dodgetown, North Carolina\n\nDodgetown is an unincorporated community in Stokes County in the U.S. state of North Carolina, a little over a mile south of Prestonville on North Carolina State Highway 772, and about five miles east of the county seat, Danbury.\n"}
{"id": "2262046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262046", "title": "Battle of Forum Gallorum", "text": "Battle of Forum Gallorum\n\nThe Battle of Forum Gallorum was fought on 14 April 43 BC between the forces of Mark Antony, and legions loyal to the Roman Senate under the overall command of consul Gaius Pansa, aided by his fellow consul Aulus Hirtius. The untested Caesar Octavian (the future emperor Augustus) guarded the Senate's camp. The battle occurred on the Via Aemilia near a village in northern Italy, perhaps near modern-day Castelfranco Emilia.\n\nAntony was attempting to capture the province of Cisalpine Gaul from its appointed governor, Decimus Brutus. Brutus was besieged by Antony in Mutina (modern Modena), just south of the Padus (Po) River on the Via Aemilia. The Roman Senate sent all its available forces to confront Antony and relieve Brutus. Hirtius and Octavian arrived near Mutina with five veteran legions, where they waited for Pansa, who was marching north from Rome with a further four legions of recruits. Antony had four veteran legions in addition to the troops that were besieging Mutina. Aware that he would soon be outnumbered, Antony sought to defeat his opponents in detail before they could link up. After failing to provoke a battle with Hirtius, Antony marched two of his legions between the two Senatorial armies and laid an ambush on Pansa's approaching recruits. Unknown to Antony, Pansa had already been joined by one of Hirtius' veteran legions and Octavian's praetorian cohorts.\n\nAntony's forces caught Pansa's army by surprise on a narrow road surrounded by marshes. A bitter, bloody battle ensued, in which Antony's II and XXXV legions defeated Pansa's troops and forced them to retreat southwards. Pansa himself was severely wounded. Antony called off the pursuit of Pansa's broken army and began marching his jubilant troops back towards Mutina. Hirtius then arrived from the north with a single veteran legion, which crashed into Anthony's exhausted troops, taking two Roman eagles and 60 standards. Antony's victory was turned into a major defeat; he fell back with his cavalry to his camp outside Mutina.\n\nAfter receiving a report of the battle, Marcus Tullius Cicero, a fierce adversary of the Antonian faction, pronounced in the Senate the Fourteenth Philippic, exalting the success and praising the two consuls and young Caesar Octavian. Nevertheless, the battle was not decisive and the campaign continued. The two armies fought again six days later (20 April) at the Battle of Mutina, which forced Antony to abandon the siege of the city and retreat westward. Hirtius was killed in the fighting at Mutina; Pansa was still recovering from his wound at Forum Gallorum but died on 23 April in unexplained circumstances.\n\nThe consul Mark Antony, the erstwhile close ally of Julius Caesar who had briefly dominated Rome shortly after the assassination of Julius Caesar, had gradually lost power since the summer of 44 BC due to the increasing popularity among veterans and the Caesarian faction of the dictator's young heir, Caesar Octavian, and the rebuilding of a Senatorial faction of Optimates led by Marcus Tullius Cicero. The coalition against Mark Antony also included some of Caesar's murderers, including Decimus Brutus, who had taken control of Gallia Cisalpina with three legions in April 44 BC. \n\nOn 1 or 2 June of 44 BC, Antony had voted a law under which he would, at the expiration of his consulate, displace Decimus Brutus as governor of Gallia Cisalpina, in lieu of Macedonia, the province to which he had been designated as proconsul. Decimus Brutus refused to submit to the consul's demands and adopted a tactic of obstructionism to gain time. At the same time, the situation in Rome became more difficult for Mark Antony: Caesar Octavian was winning support, the Senate appeared hostile, and two of Antony's best legions defected to the young Caesar, despite Antony's appeals and threats of punishments. On 28 November 44 BC, Mark Antony decided to take the initiative and, with the four legions remaining faithful to him, rushed north against Decimus Brutus, who, by the end of the year, was besieged in Mutina.\n\nOn 1 January 43 BC, the moderate Caesarians Aulus Hirtius and Gaius Vibius Pansa became consuls, and from that moment on, especially thanks to Cicero's propaganda campaign with his Philippics, a heterogeneous coalition against Antony took shape and gathered strength. During a session of the Senate, Cicero succeeded in legalizing Caesar Octavian's actions in gathering an army of veterans at Arretium; the young man was assigned the rank of propraetor and the task of marching against Antony. A delegation of three senators was sent to seek an agreement with Antony, who was still besieging Decimus Brutus in Mutina, but at the same time new legions of recruits for war were being raised. Aulus Hirtius was ill and little inclined to engage in fratricidal conflict, but he still left for Arretium to take command, effecting a junction with Octavian's troops at Ariminum. Early in February 43 BC, the delegation sent to Mutina returned to Rome; the Senate rejected Antony's proposed basis of agreement as unacceptable and, under Cicero's urging, voted to declare a state of war and an ultimatum. The two consuls were given the task of waging war in concert with the propraetor Octavian. All room for negotiation seemed exhausted; the Caesarian faction was deeply divided, as evidenced by a sarcastic and threatening letter from Mark Antony to Hirtius and Octavian, read by Cicero in the Senate, dated 15 March 43 BC.\n\nIn February 43 BC, the consul Hirtius and the propraetor Caesar Octavian advanced on Mutina with their legions. From Ariminum they crossed the Apennines and came to Forum Cornelii, easily repulsing Antony's vanguard and occupying Claternae.\n\nIn early March 43 BC, Hirtius and Caesar Octavian advanced along the Via Aemilia and reached Bononia; Mark Antony chose to fall back again. For the moment, he sought to strengthen the encircling front around Mutina to contain Decimus Brutus. In fact, neither Hirtius nor Octavian were seeking an immediate battle; they had two of Caesar‘s legions that had abandoned Antony and three legions of recalled veterans gathered by Octavian in Campania, but for the moment they were waiting for the other consul Vibius Pansa, who left Rome on 19 March, to return along the Via Cassia with four legions of recruits that had been quickly mobilized in January 43 BC.\n\nWhen Mark Antony became aware of the approach and imminent concentration of his enemies, he set out to take the initiative and move on to the attack as soon as possible. At first, Antony tried to hasten the battle and gain a decisive victory against the forces of Hirtius and Octavian. After leaving a part of his troops behind to detain Decimus Brutus at Mutina, he brought up the bulk of his forces, consisting of four veteran legions and large contingents of cavalry, near his two opponents' camp, harassing them with continuous skirmishes. Hirtius and Octavian, however, did not leave their camp but continued to await Pansa's arrival.\n\nMark Antony then decided on a new plan: having learned of the arrival of scouts from Vibius Pansa's legions along the Via Aemilia from Bononia, Antony thought he could easily attack and destroy them with his veterans. He also counted on the arrival of three legions from the south, recruited by his capable lieutenant Publius Ventidius Bassus from among Caesar's veterans settled in Picenum. Antony decided to leave part of his forces under the command of his brother Lucius Antonius to hold Decimus Brutus in check, and engage Hirtius and Octavian with a feigned attack on their camp, while moving against Pansa's troops under cover of darkness with his best legions.\n\nBecause of the uneven and marshy terrain near Forum Gallorum through which the antagonists would have to pass, Mark Antony could not deploy his excellent cavalry forces, but decided to attack by sending \"Legiones\" II \"Gallica\" and XXXV into the marshes and deploying his praetorian cohorts and those of Marcus Junius Silanus along the main road (Via Aemilia) over the marshy ground. The legionaries were deployed in the shelter of the reeds of the marshes at the point where the main road was narrowest; cavalry units and light infantry moved forward along the Via Aemilia to harry Pansa's troops and draw them into the trap.\n\nCaesar Octavian and Aulus Hirtius had expected the legions of Vibius Pansa to arrive before attacking the forces of Mark Antony. When they learned of the approach of the other consul's four legions, they attacked the legate Servius Sulpicius Galba, one of Caesar's killers, with the Caesarian veterans of the \"Legio Martia\" led by the energetic Decimus Carfulenus and the personal praetorian cohorts of Caesar Octavian and Aulus Hirtius. Carfulenus and Galba moved in the darkness eastwards along the Via Aemilia and passed through Forum Gallorum; Pansa and Carfulenus made a junction in the night of 14 April 43 BC and started marching at dawn along the road with the pugnacious \"Legio Martia\", five cohorts of recruits, and the praetorian cohorts of Caesar Octavian and Hirtius. In the marshes on either side, the first signs of the enemy were spotted, and presently Antony's praetorian cohorts appeared to block the main road.\n\nThe \"Legio Martia\" and Vibius Pansa's recruits suddenly stood threatened in front of and alongside Antony's legions. The experienced legionaries did not lose their cohesion, but accepted battle after sending back the cohorts of recruits that were deemed unsuitable for the fight by the Caesarian veterans of the \"Martia\". While the praetorian cohorts of Antony and Caesar Octavian fought sharply along the main road, the \"Martia\" veterans split into two parts and, under the command of Pansa and Carfulenus, ran into the marshes to join the battle. Carfulenus led eight cohorts of the \"Legio Martia\" into the swampy soil to the right of Via Aemilia, while in the marshes on the left side of the road, the consul Pansa commanded the other two cohorts of the legion, reinforced by Aulus Hirtius' praetorian cohorts. Mark Antony's veterans of \"Legio\" XXXV attacked the eight cohorts of the \"Martia\" while the entire \"Legio\" II moved against the two cohorts under the command of Vibius Pansa to the left of Via Aemilia.\nThe fighting between the Caesarian veterans of both parties was dramatic and bloody; in his history, Appian describes the particular bitterness of the two parties to a fratricidal struggle. Mark Antony's Caesarians were angry at the defection of the legionaries of the \"Legio Martia\", now allied with the Senate, while the latter legion wanted to take revenge for the decimations and other punishments inflicted on them at Brundisium. Both sides believed that they could obtain a decisive victory, as the veterans' military pride increased the fury of the fight.\n\nThe clash between the Caesarian veterans on the two sides took place in a dark silence: without battle-cries or exhortations, the legionaries fought hand-to-hand in a frontal collision between their massed ranks in the swamps and valleys. The legionaries' fratricidal carnage was interrupted only by short breaks used to tighten their formations. The veterans knew their job well; without the need for encouragement, they continued the struggle with tenacity and obstinacy. The mutual slaughter with drawn blades impressed Pansa's inexperienced recruits, who watched the deadly and silent action of the Caesarian legionaries on both sides.\n\nThis fierce battle between the veterans continued in the swamps, initially without decisive results. On the right wing, the eight cohorts of the \"Legio Martia\" under the command of Decimus Carfulenus managed slowly to gain ground, while Antony's \"Legio\" XXXV gradually retreated in good order. On the left wing, on the other hand, the other two cohorts of the \"Legio Martia\" and the praetorian cohorts of Hirtius, under Pansa's command, first offered a stiff resistance but then began gradually to fold before Antony's entire \"Legio\" II. The battle finally turned to the favour of Antony's forces: in the centre along the Via Aemilia, Antony and Silanus' praetorian cohorts prevailed in a brutal clash with Caesar Octavian's praetorian cohorts, which were completely destroyed.\n\nIn the marshes to the right of the highway, the legionaries of the \"Martia\", who were isolated some 500 paces in advance, were threatened by Antony's Moorish cavalry; Decimus Carfulenus had fallen mortally wounded, and the veterans began to fall back while still repulsing the cavalry's assaults. Exhausted, the legionaries of Antony's \"Legio\" XXXV did not at first pursue the retreating enemy. In the marshes to the left of the Via Aemilia, the consul Vibius Pansa suffered a serious injury while fighting on the line; his wound from a javelin shook the two cohorts of the \"Legio Martia\". While the injured consul was transferred to Bononia, the Antonian veterans of \"Legio\" II finally put the two cohorts to flight; they now began to fall back in disorder, sowing panic in the ranks of Pansa's raw recruits, whose two legions had been kept far back in reserve. At the sight of the apparent collapse of the veterans of the \"Legio Martia\", the new recruits scattered, falling back to camp in disorder.\n\nMark Antony's legionaries hastened to pursue the enemy, inflicting heavy losses on the veterans and new conscripts as they fled back towards their camp. The survivors of the \"Legio Martia\" actually remained outside the camp and by their presence dissuaded the Antonian legionaries from attacking further. The remnants of the Senatorial legions were virtually trapped inside their camps, and the Antonian veterans would likely force them to surrender in the event of prolonged siege, but Mark Antony was concerned about losing time, fearing that the situation would deteriorate in Mutina in case Hirtius and Octavian's legions sought to break his siege there. Antony therefore felt that he could not stay on the battlefield and decided to return with his forces to the city. In the afternoon, Antony's two victorious legions began to return westward along Via Aemilia in the direction of Mutina. The soldiers were tired but euphoric after apparently achieving a brilliant success.\n\nVibius Pansa, while leading his recruits into battle in the marshes of Forum Gallorum, where he was later seriously injured, had at the same time sent messengers to the other consul, Aulus Hirtius, to inform him of the unexpected battle with the Antonians and their difficult situation. Hirtius was about sixty stadia () from the battlefield. He decided at once to march to Pansa's aid with the \"Legio\" IV \"Macedonica\", the other Caesarian legion that had defected at Brundisium. These fresh troops moved quickly and, in the late afternoon of 14 April 43 BC, came unexpectedly into contact with the legions of Mark Antony who, exhausted after the tough battle, marched in the direction of Mutina in poor order and heedless of danger in their front.\n\nThe IV \"Macedonica\" led by Aulus Hirtius, experienced and well-rested, came to the attack in tight formation against Antony's disorderly and tired troops. Despite attempts at resistance and instances of bravery, the Antonian legions could not withstand the assault, but suffered heavy losses and disintegrated under the attacks of Hirtius' Caesarian. The Antonian legions disintegrated, scattering into the marshes and nearby forests; two eagles and sixty other standards were captured by their enemies. Only with great difficulty could Mark Antony rally the remnant with the help of the cavalry, which managed to round up the soldiers during the night and bring them back to camp near Mutina. Aulus Hirtius, hindered by darkness and wary of being lured into a trap, chose not to pursue the defeated Antonian legions. Thus ended the long battle of Forum Gallorum. The marshes were covered with arms, trunks, horse remains, corpses of legionaries of the two sides perceived in the alternate fights.\n\nCaesar Octavian's direct role on the day of the battle, 14 April 43 BC, had been minimal. The propraetor held his ground with the other three legions available in their camps, busying themselves with checking and repulsing the faint diversionary attacks led by Lucius Antonius on his brother's instructions. Despite taking a lesser role than the two consuls Hirtius and Pansa, he was acclaimed as \"imperator\" on the field by his troops.\n\nAlthough the Battle of Forum Gallorum ended without a decisive victory for either of the two parties, at the end of the day, Mark Antony's bold plan had been foiled and the two consuls' Senatorial forces had reversed the disastrous outcome of their initial clash, thanks to the decisive intervention of Caesar's legionaries now serving Caesar Octavian—the famous \"heavenly legions\" exalted by Cicero. The fighting, however, was extremely fierce and bloody. In the first phase, according to Appian, more than half of Vibius Pansa's forces and Octavian's entire praetorian cohort were destroyed by the Antonian veterans; the latter were then decimated in turn, losing half of their forces before finding escape in fields around Mutina. The losses to Aulus Hirtius' legion in the second phase were, however, light.\n\nThe first news of the battle that reached Rome of the battle was uncertain, provoking doubts and consternation among the Republican Senators grouped around Cicero. The letter sent by Aulus Hirtius with the news of the triumphant victory and a personal account by Servius Sulpicius Galba, addressed to Cicero, raised morale and aroused euphoria among Antony's Senatorial enemies. After a few days, on 21 April 43 BC, Cicero pronounced in the Senate the triumphalist Fourteenth Philippic, in which he exalted the victory, called even for fifty days of public thanksgiving, and praised above all the two consuls Aulus Hirtius and Vibius Pansa, while somewhat minimizing the contribution by Caesar Octavian. During the session, Cicero also gave the news of Vibius Pansa's injury, but the latter's life did not seem to be in danger. On the morning of 23 April, however, the consul died in circumstances that have never fully been explained. His doctor Glyco was briefly arrested on suspicion of poisoning Pansa, and the rumour spread, later recorded by some ancient historians such as Suetonius and Tacitus, that Octavian had been directly responsible for the sudden death of the consul, whose wound had not seemed serious.\n\nOn 21 April 43 BC, while Cicero pronounced his last invective against Antony, the Battle of Mutina was bitterly joined. That engagement decided the outcome of the Mutina campaign through the victory of the coalition between the republicans and Octavian's Caesarians, the death of the other consul Hirtius, and the definitive retreat of Mark Antony with the consequent lifting of the siege of Decimus Brutus. The Senatorial victory was, however, to prove ephemeral, for soon Caesar Octavian, alone in command since the two consuls' providential but suspicious demise, would break off his alliance with the senatorial Ciceronian faction in an abrupt realignment of forces that resulted in the formation of the Triumvirate with Mark Antony and Marcus Aemilius Lepidus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262050", "title": "Noodles &amp; Company", "text": "Noodles &amp; Company\n\nNoodles & Company is an American fast-casual restaurant that offers international and American noodle dishes and pasta in addition to soups and salads. Noodles & Company was founded in 1995 by Aaron Kennedy and is headquartered in Broomfield, Colorado. The company went public in 2013 and recorded a $457 million revenue in 2017. In late 2018, there were 460 Noodles & Company locations across 29 states and Washington, D.C.\n\nThe idea for Noodles & Company was conceived by former Pepsi marketing executive Aaron Kennedy, after eating at Mamie's Asian Noodle Shop in Greenwich Village, New York. He felt there were not enough restaurants that served noodle dishes, which are a staple for many international foods. Kennedy started developing recipes out of his mother-in-law's kitchen with the future COO, Joe Serafin, and head chef, Ross Kamens, in 1994.\n\nKennedy raised $72,000 ($ in dollars) in personal funds and $200,000 ($ in dollars) in investments from 24 friends and family members. The first Noodles & Company was opened in October 1995, in the Cherry Creek neighborhood of Denver, Colorado. Kennedy was joined by partner and real estate developer Tom Weigand, whom he had met at Augustana College. They opened a second location in Madison, Wisconsin, the following March.\n\nIn the first three months, Noodles & Company lost $42,000($ in dollars), and almost went out of business in 1996 after a reporter with the \"Wisconsin State Journal\" published a negative review. He said Noodles & Company was \"a killer idea\" but \"criticized nearly every dish he'd tried.\" The \"Denver Post\" and other newspapers had published similar reviews. In response, Kennedy started a \"Redefine Noodles & Company\" campaign \"to redefine and refine nearly every aspect of the operation.\"\n\nIn mid-1996, the management team went to Chicago to observe other noodle restaurants and, the night of their return, the basement flooded at the Madison location. The next day, Kennedy made a list of 15 areas for improvement. \"Rocky Mountain News\" said \"the team completely revamped the Noodles concept, overhauling the menu, the prices, the decor and more. It worked.\" The restaurant implemented a warmer color scheme. Steam tables to keep food warm were replaced with saute lines to cook each dish as it is ordered. Two new managers were hired and an executive chef re-worked the menu. According to \"Inc. Magazine\", within sixty days \"the food had improved dramatically.\"\n\nFrom 1996–2000, Noodles & Company's revenues grew from $330,000 ($ in dollars) to $13 million ($ in dollars). Local food critics in many cities began naming Noodles & Company as the best fast-food restaurant in the city and it was frequently listed as a \"company to watch.\" It won a Hot Concept! award from \"Nation's Restaurant News\". $1 million ($ in dollars) in stock was sold in 1998, which was followed by a $2.5 million ($ in dollars) round of funding and a $5 million round in 2000. ($ in dollars)\n\nThe restaurant had 37 locations in 2002, 65 in 2003, and 142 by 2007. The company started franchising in 2003 and by 2007, 22 of its stores were franchises. The restaurants were redesigned in 2004 with lighter colors, new packaging, a greater emphasis on carryout orders and a floorplan that emphasized an open kitchen, where the saute line was visible to customers.\n\nAccording to \"Rocky Mountain News\", the company was growing \"so fast that it has had to move every two years.\" In 2006, its headquarters were moved from Boulder to Broomfield, Colorado. The company's founder, Aaron Kennedy, stepped down from his position as CEO that same year and was replaced by Kevin Reddy. The number of Noodles & Company locations grew threefold from the beginning of the financial crisis of 2007–08 to 2013, reaching 339 locations.\n\nIn 2010, a majority interest in Noodles & Company was acquired by an investment group led by Catterton Partners. In January 2013, bankers told the \"Financial Times\" that Noodles & Company was scouting for underwriters for an initial public offering (IPO). Two months later, the intent for a public offering was confirmed with a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for $75 million in stock. Around this time, the company had reached 339 locations, 51 of which were franchises, and $300.4 million in revenues. Within a day following Noodles & Company's IPO on June 27, the stock price doubled. \"Fast Company\" and \"The Daily Beast\" called it \"the hottest IPO of the year\" and compared it to Chipotle's IPO.\n\nOn November 16, 2015, Noodles & Company announced that it had pulled out of Central Texas, closing all five of its locations in the Austin area. Restaurants in a handful of other cities had closed or were planned to close within the coming weeks, including locations in Lubbock and the Washington, D.C., area, according to published reports. Ultimately, 16 locations were closed by the end of the year.\n\nOn July 25, 2016, in Alexandria, Virginia, two Noodles & Company employees refused to serve a uniformed police officer. The officer left the restaurant and reported the incident, which gained regional news coverage. The company issued an apology and terminated the employees involved in the incident.\n\nIn 2017, the company planned to close 55 underperforming restaurants, but also planned to open 14 to 17 new locations.\n\nNoodles & Company offers international and American noodle dishes, as well as soups, salads, and pasta. Most pasta entrees come vegetarian, but have optional protein toppings such as tofu, chicken, beef or shrimp. It also sells baguettes and desserts like Rice Krispies Treats.\n\nCustomers order at the counter and are served at their table, usually within five to seven minutes. The average check is approximately $8 per person. The restaurants use soft lighting, furniture made from recycled bamboo and have bench seating and community tables. Orders can be made online, to dine-in, or to-go.\n\nSeasonal items were first introduced to supplement the menu in 2002. Two years later, noodle-less entrees were added in response to the trend for low-carb diets. The following year it introduced a whole-grain Tuscan fettuccine. Naturally raised pork was added as a meat option in 2012. Three seasonal items and a gluten-free fusilli were added in April 2013.\n\nIn 2015, Noodles & Company debuted customizable kids’ meals.\n\nSometime between July 2016 and October 2016, sandwiches were quietly removed from the Noodles website, with the last web snapshot that recorded the inclusion of sandwiches on the menu having occurred at the end of that July.\n\nAlthough they offer gluten-free and vegan options, they warn that cross-contamination may occur.\n\nFrom 1997 to 2002, Noodles & Company sponsored outdoor and print ads. By 2002 it had a $1.3 million advertising budget and began airing ads on major television networks. One was of a \"snake charmer\" using a flute to charm noodles and the other was a noodles dish as a landing UFO, from which noodles emerged. Both ads carried the slogan \"We're going to get you.\" Afterwards, in the early 2000s, the company reduced its advertising resources, before a rebranding effort that started in 2008.\n\nThe slogan \"Your World Kitchen\" was introduced in 2013. The largest component of Noodles & Company's advertising is in outdoor ads like billboards, but it also invests in radio, digital media and news sites. The billboards emphasize the global cuisine. One points to a parking lot and says \"Recipes imported from more countries than these cars.\"\n\nMany Noodles & Company restaurants are owned and operated by Noodles & Company Incorporated, but some are operated in a franchise model. Franchise locations are operated by an independent franchisee that is trained by Noodles & Company and uses the same menu, pricing and branding as corporate-owned stores. As of 2010, the average Noodles & Company store generated more than $1 million in annual revenue, with a profit of 21 percent. Takeout orders account for approximately 25 percent of revenues. According to \"Inc. Magazine\", Noodles & Company is more selective in franchise partners than other franchise-based restaurants, and has a higher ratio of corporate-owned stores than most franchising restaurants.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2262052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262052", "title": "Tonga national rugby league team", "text": "Tonga national rugby league team\n\nThe Tonga national rugby league team represents Tonga in rugby league football. They are currently the fourth ranked team in the world. The team was formed to compete in the 1986 Pacific Cup, and have competed at five Rugby League World Cups, starting in 1995 and continuing consecutively until the most recent tournament in 2017, where they achieved their best ever result as semi-finalists.\n\nFormerly administered by the Tonga National Rugby League, the team is now in a state of limbo with administration. They wear a predominately red uniform with white sides and are associated with the phrase Mate Ma'a Tonga (English: \"Die for Tonga\"). They are coached by Australian Kristian Woolf, and co-captained by Sio Siua Taukeiaho and Jason Taumalolo.\n\nRugby league first gained attention in Tonga when the Pacific Cup was partially held in the country during 1986. After this initial exposure to the Tongan people several clubs began to form or switch from rugby union to rugby league and by 1988 the nation had enough depth in their player pool to begin playing national fixtures and entered the 1988 Pacific Cup competition held in Apia, Samoa. During that Pacific Cup the Tongans played in three fixtures winning a sole match while losing the other two, with their first international victory coming against the American Samoa side a match that ended 38–14.\n\nOver the next two years the national side sporadically played international fixtures but it was not until the 1992 Pacific Cup when they again began playing with some regularity. At the 1992 Cup competition the side showed significant improvement on their previous inaugural cup effort with victories over Niue, Cook Islands, Fiji and the New Zealand Maori. This run of victories earned them a place in the final of the 1992 Pacific Cup against the Western Samoan side but they eventually lost a close fought match by four points 18–14. The following tournament two years later saw the Tongan side show further improvement with several comfortable victories again earning them a spot in final of the Pacific Cup this time against the Fijians who had never defeated the Tongans at that time. The final was a tough affair but the \"Mate Ma'a\" were again victorious over Fiji 34–11 and claimed their maiden Pacific Cup title.\n\nDuring 1995 Tonga qualified for their first World Cup and were seeded in the strong group B with both New Zealand and Papua New Guinea. While Tonga failed to win a match at the World Cup they earned respect after they narrowly lost to the New Zealand team by a single point and earnt a draw against Papua New Guinea.\n\nThe next four years saw the Tongan side appear in a further Pacific Cup in 1997 and then qualify for the 2000 World Cup with comfortable victories over the Cook Islands, Tokelau and American Samoa. Prior to appearing at the 2000 competition the Tongans arranged a friendly fixture against the New Zealand side that they had come so close to defeating during the previous World Cup but this time faced their heaviest defeat to date going down 74–0 and suffering a large dent in confidence prior to the competition.\n\nAfter the heavy defeat to New Zealand their next international fixture was during their second World Cup where the Tongans were again placed in another tough group with France, Papua New Guinea again and the South Africans. Tonga faced South Africa in their first match of the tournament where they were comfortable victors in a 66–18 drubbing, however the rest of the tournament was not so kind to the Tongan side with losses to both France and Papua New Guinea meaning the Tongans again failed to make it past the first stage of the tournament.\n\nWith a disappointing World Cup behind them the \"Mate Ma'a\" regrouped and again enter the Pacific Cup four years later in 2004. The tournament saw the Tongans again qualify for the tournament final with victories over both the Cook Islands and Fiji but the side suffered a heavy defeat at the hands of neighbouring Samoa 51–18. 2006 saw the Tongan side re-enter the Pacific Cup where again they performed strongly qualifying for their second consecutive final where this time they reversed their previous effort with a strong victory over Fiji 22–4 giving them their second Pacific Cup title. 2006 continued to be a busy year of international fixtures for the Tongans which saw them gain qualification into the 2008 World Cup after they finished top of their Pacific group ahead of the Cook Islands, Fiji and Samoa and then defeat the Samoans 18–10 in the qualifying final. They also entered the inaugural Federation Shield competition along with England, France and Samoa and eventually finish second. England to face Tonga in League final to the English in the final 32–14 after they had defeated both France and Samoa.\n\nIn April 2013, Tonga took on Samoa in the '2013 Pacific Rugby League Test' at Penrith Stadium. The International was created as a World Cup warm-up match. Tonga targeted Samoa's weak defence, and it paid off, thrashing the Toa Samoans by 36–4. \n\nTonga automatically qualified for the 2013 Rugby League World Cup after participating in the 2008 tournament. They took on \nScotland, Italy and the Cook Islands in the pool stage. In their first match they took on 'the Scots'. It was a tight and intense rugby league battle, but it was the Scots who eventually prevailed, winning 26–24. Tonga then went on and beat 'the Kukis', 22–16, and Italy, 16–0, but it wasn't enough. Scotland finished the group stage unbeaten, sealing their place in the quarter-final and ending Tonga's World Cup campaign in the process.\n\nIn May 2015, Tonga took on Samoa in the 2015 Polynesian Cup at Cbus Super Stadium. The International was part of a triple header which also included the Melanesian Cup, between Papua New Guinea and Fiji, and the Junior Kangaroos against the Junior Kiwis. The game was an absolute thriller with the lead alternating between the teams and the biggest margin throughout the match was only 6 points. However, there was always going to be one winner in the see-saw affair and it was Samoa who upended Mate Ma'a Tonga to win the Polynesian Cup by 18–16.\n\nIn October 2015, Tonga took on the Cook Islands in the Asia-Pacific elimination play-off to determine which of the two Asia-Pacific nations qualified for the 2017 Rugby League World Cup. After a tight first half, Mate Ma'a Tonga went on win the match scoring 16 points within the last 20 minutes of the game.\n\nIn May 2016, Tonga took on Samoa in the 2016 Polynesian Cup at Pirtek Stadium. The International was part of a triple header which also included the Melanesian Cup, between Papua New Guinea and Fiji, and the Junior Kangaroos against the Junior Kiwis. The traditional pacific rivalry between these two continued as they produced highlights from big hits, to powerful meters, and try-saving tackles when needed. However this year's test-match saw way more errors than last year's and Tonga made most of them and failed to capitalize on their 55% of possession, which therefore resulted in a 12-point defeat in the 2016 Polynesian Cup.\n\nTonga fielded their strongest ever team at the 2017 World Cup on the back of Jason Taumalolo and Andrew Fifita choosing to represent their parental heritage rather than their respective birthplaces, New Zealand and Australia. Taumalolo, the joint 2016 Dally M Medallist, was described by \"Fox Sports\" to be the \"undisputed best forward in the NRL\" and was expected to be named in the New Zealand squad, while Fifita withdrew from the already-named Australian squad after waiting for Taumalolo's announcement, having told him privately a few days earlier \"if you make the commitment, I'll make the commitment.\" Taumalolo referenced his close relationship with Tongan coach Kristian Woolf and his desire to strengthen the Tongan squad as motivators, while Fifita cited a desire to give back to his father's family.\n\nIn addition, Manu Maʻu declined a likely position in the New Zealand squad, while David Fusitu'a, Solomone Kata, Tuimoala Lolohea, and Sio Siua Taukeiaho dismissed any possibility of a New Zealand re-call in order to represent Tonga. With a mixed heritage, Michael Jennings also committed himself to Tonga after knocking back an approach to represent Fiji.\n\nBolstered by tier-one quality players, Tonga quickly became the most heavily backed team in the World Cup, dropping from $81 odds to $17. Entering into the tournament as the 11th ranked team in the world, Tonga comfortably won their opening two group matches, outclassing Scotland 504 and Samoa 3218. In their third and final group match, Tonga upset New Zealand 2822 after trailing 162 at half-time. This marked the first time since the introduction of the tiered-nation system that a tier-two team defeated a tier-one team, and the first time since Wales defeated England 1816 in 1995 if applied retroactively. Tonga beat Lebanon 2422 in a hard-fought quarter-final, but lost 1820 to England in the semi-final. England were leading 200 with 8 minutes remaining before Tonga scored three tries in quick succession, however, a contentious refereeing decision on the last play of the game denied them from progressing to the World Cup final.\n\nAfter Tonga's semi-final against England, which was attended by King Tupou VI, 29 November 2018 was declared a public holiday in Tonga as Mate Ma'a Tonga Day and the entire Tongan squad was invited to the Royal Palace. Each player was honoured as Knight Commander of the \"Most Illustrious\" Order of Queen Sālote Tupou III for their contribution to sports, while Taumalolo and Lolohea were gifted land in their families' respective villages. At the conclusion of the tournament, Tonga jumped to 4th in the RLIF world rankings.\n\nMedia speculation questioned whether Tonga's star players would return to their tier-one nations after the World Cup, assuming they were to be welcomed back. In the months following, Fifita, an incumbent of the New South Wales squad, Tevita Pangai Junior and Jennings announced they would make themselves unavailable for NSW selection to continue with Tonga, while New Zealand-eligible players Lolohea, Kata, Fusitu'a, and Taumalolo also publicly confirmed their allegiance to Tonga ahead of their match against Samoa on 23 June 2018. Additionally, Addin Fonua-Blake announced his intention to represent Tonga after playing for New Zealand at the World Cup, commenting \"I really enjoyed my time with the Kiwis but it just didn't feel like home.\" As a consequence, New Zealand's squad for their match against England on 24 June 2018 contained just one Tongan-eligible player, Dallin Watene-Zelezniak, who reportedly pledged his loyalty to the Kiwis to honour his great-grandfather Puti Tipene Watene, the first Māori to captain the side.\n\nOn 5 September 2018, it was confirmed that Mate Ma’a Tonga were to play a historical test against the Australian Kangaroos. It would be the first ever time Tonga will play Australia in a rugby league test match. \nThe fixture was played on 20 October 2018 at Mount Smart Stadium in Auckland, New Zealand with Andrew Fifita leading the Sipi Tau in front of a sold-out crowd. The Kangaroos held off a spirited challenge from the Mate Ma'a to win 34–16.\n\nOn 22 June 2019, Tonga faced New Zealand again at Mount Smart Stadium as part of the 2019 Oceania Cup. The Kiwis won 34–14 in a dominant display. After the NRL season ended, Tonga played against the touring Great Britain on 26 October, winning 14–6 at Waikato Stadium in Hamilton. This was Great Britain's first match after a twelve year hiatus. The following week at Auckland's Eden Park, Tonga faced the Australia in an Oceania Cup match. Tonga stunned the world number one nation, winning 16–12. This match has been labelled one of the greatest upset in rugby league history, with Jason Taumalolo rating it above his NRL grand final victory with the North Queensland Cowboys in 2015. It was also the first time the Kangaroos had lost to a tier 2 nation since 1978.\n\nTonga automatically qualified for the 2021 Rugby League World Cup having reached the semi finals of the previous Rugby League World Cup. The 2021 tournament will take place in England.\nThe Tonga national team squad for the 2019 Oceania Cup and 2019 Great Britain Lions tour.\n\nSince rugby league has been introduced to the nation of Tonga in 1986 many players of Tongan birth or heritage have gone on to attain notability by participating in domestic rugby-league club competitions globally but mostly in NRL and Super League both top-level domestic rugby-league club competitions and known internationally. Also they attain notability in representing Tonga, other nations (Mainly Australia or New Zealand) or including other nations. A list of seventeen former notable players below that have appeared in top-level domestic rugby-league club competitions (NRL & Super League) and played internationally for Tonga and including other nations between 1986 & 2018:\n\nThe following table underneath shows Tonga's all-time rugby league results record. They have been participating in International fixtures since 1986.\n\nTonga have played 83 internationals with the most recent being played on 2 November 2019 against Australia.\n\nTonga have played in every world cup since the tournament was expanded in 1995, a total of five tournaments. Tonga reached the semi-finals of the 2017 world cup having beaten New Zealand in the group stage to top the standings and losing by just two points to England in the semi-final. Due to reaching the knock-out stages of the 2017 competition, Tonga have qualified for the 2021 world cup which will be held in England.\n\n\nTonga's kit suppliers are ISC since 2018. Classic (1995 RLWC), Mitre (2000 RLWC), Kombat (2004–2005), KooGa (2006–2012) and Fi-ta (2013–2018) were previous suppliers. Today's current kit suppliers is dynasty sports.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262054", "title": "Slughorn", "text": "Slughorn\n\nSlughorn can refer to several things and one (fictional) person.\n\n\n\n\"The Oxford English Dictionary\", second edition, prepared by J. A. Simpson and E. S. C. Weiner, vol. xv, Ser-Soosy, under \"slogan\" and \"slughorn (1)\".\n\nThomas Chatterton, \"The Rowley Poems\", \"Hastings\" ii.90 and footnote 15 to \"Eclogue the Second\", at Project Gutenberg, accessed on 12 July 2006.\n\nRobert Browning, \"Browning's Shorter Poems\", selected and edited by Franklin T. Baker, A.M., Macmillan, 1917 at Project Gutenberg, accessed on 12 July 2006.\n"}
{"id": "2262057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262057", "title": "KWID", "text": "KWID\n\nKWID (101.9 FM, \"La Buena 101.9\") is a commercial radio station that is licensed to Las Vegas, Nevada. The station is owned by Lotus Communications and broadcasts a Spanish-language adult hits format. The KWID studios are located in the unincorporated community of Spring Valley in Clark County and its transmitter is on Black Mountain in Henderson.\n\nPrior to the use of the call letters in Las Vegas, there was an unrelated shortwave radio station called KWID during World War II. Based in San Francisco, the original KWID was commissioned by the federal government to reach an international audience. It served as the basis for what later became the Voice of America radio network.\n\nThe station at 101.9 FM in Las Vegas signed on in 1963 as KRGN with an easy listening format. It took its call sign from its owner, E. W. Cragin. The Gilday Broadcasting Company bought the station in 1968.\n\nIn 1974, the station changed its call sign to KFMS and flipped to an automated top 40 format branded \"KFM 102\". From 1978 to 1980, KFMS was an album-oriented rock outlet. On January 1, 1981, KFMS flipped to a country music format, retaining the KFM 102 name.\n\nIn 1997, Jacor Communications purchased Regent Communications and its stations, including KFMS, for $184.7 million. Jacor subsequently was purchased by Clear Channel Communications in 1999.\n\nOn January 7, 2000 at 3 p.m., KFMS flipped to top 40 as \"101.9 KISS-FM\". KFMS simulcast KIIS-FM in Los Angeles, including Rick Dees' weekday morning program, while Buck Head from WFLZ-FM in Tampa hosted weeknights. \"The Buck Head Show\" was later syndicated back to KYSR (Star 98.7) in Los Angeles until he was eventually transferred to that market.\n\nThe grouping of KIIS-FM (102.7 FM) in Los Angeles, KIIS (1220 AM) in Santa Clarita, California, KAVS (97.7 FM) in the Antelope Valley, KYHT (105.3 FM) in Barstow/Victor Valley, and KFMS in Las Vegas created nearly continuous coverage of KIIS-FM between Los Angeles and Las Vegas. However, KFMS was branded as \"KISS\" instead of \"KIIS\".\n\nOver time, KFMS began adding more local disc jockeys, including Kate and Rick Kelly from KQOL-FM (93.1 FM). After KYHT flipped to hot adult contemporary in 2001, KFMS discontinued its simulcast of KIIS-FM, adjusted its format to include more hip hop music, and added a local morning show hosted by Trejo and Nikki. The station continued to air the nationally syndicated \"Rick Dees Weekly Top 40\" program.\n\nIn December 2002, 101.9 Kiss-FM signed off and KFMS began stunting for several days with a loop of \"Welcome to the Jungle\" by Guns N' Roses. In January 2003, the station debuted a rhythmic contemporary format with the branding \"Wild 102\" and the slogan \"Where Hip Hop Lives\"; the call letters changed to KWID. On November 15, 2004, KWID flipped to Mexican oldies as \"La Preciosa 101.9\".\n\nIn May 2008, Lotus Communications acquired KWID in a three-station swap with Clear Channel. In exchange for KZEP-FM in San Antonio, Lotus also received KBKO-FM in Bakersfield, California. The new owner changed KWID to a Spanish adult hits format, branded \"La Buena 101.9\".\n"}
{"id": "2262060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262060", "title": "SEC Rule 10b-5", "text": "SEC Rule 10b-5\n\nSEC Rule 10b-5, codified at , is one of the most important rules targeting securities fraud promulgated by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, pursuant to its authority granted under § 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The rule prohibits any act or omission resulting in fraud or deceit in connection with the purchase or sale of any security. The issue of insider trading is given further definition in SEC Rule 10b5-1.\n\nIn 1942, SEC lawyers in the Boston Regional Office learned that a company president was issuing pessimistic statements about company earnings while simultaneously purchasing the company's stock. Although the Securities Act of 1933 prohibited fraudulent sales of securities, no regulation existed at that time which would have precluded fraudulent purchases. Rule 10b-5, issued by the SEC under section 10(b) of the Exchange Act, was implemented to fill this regulatory void. The commissioners approved the rule without debate or comment, with the exception of Commissioner Sumner Pike who indicated approval of the rule by asking, \"Well, we are against fraud, aren't we?\"\n\n\"Rule 10b-5: Employment of Manipulative and Deceptive Practices\":\n\nTo establish a claim under Rule 10b-5, plaintiffs (including the SEC) must show (i) Manipulation or Deception (through misrepresentation and/or omission); (ii) Materiality; (iii) \"In Connection With\" the purchase or sale of securities, and (iv) Scienter. Private plaintiffs have the additional burden of establishing (v) Standing - Purchaser/Seller Requirement; (vi) Reliance (presumed if there was an omission); (vii) Loss Causation; and (viii) Damages.\n\nThese are roughly comparable to the elements of common law fraud, which are i) Deception; ii) Materiality; iii) with Intent to Cause Reliance; that iv) causes Actual Reliance; and v) Harm. \n\nIn a case for insider trading, anyone who uses insider information can be held liable. A tippee can be liable if the tipper breached a fiduciary duty and the tippee knew or had reason to know that the tipper was breaching the duty.\n\nDeceit can be in the form of an affirmative misrepresentation or of an omission of fact which, in context, makes other facts misleading. \n\nFurthermore, for a private party to recover damages, they must be able to show that they were injured because they relied on the fraudulent claim. Alternately, fraud can occur through omission of a material fact, where the injured party does not have to prove reliance, because it is assumed to have occurred. If the defendant had publicly made a fraudulent statement, \"every\" investor could sue if it could be shown that the statement affected the market as a whole. This is the \"fraud on the market\" theory the Supreme Court enunciated in \"Basic Inc. v. Levinson\". This \"fraud on the market\" presumption of the plaintiff's reliance upon the deceit is only available in situations (like in \"Basic\") where the security is traded on a well organized and presumably efficient market. The same can be said for an omission of material information.\n\nBoth the \"bespeaks caution\" doctrine and the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act offer protection for forward-looking statements if they are accompanied by cautionary language identifying specific factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statement and may be sufficient to absolve a defendant of liability. However, in \"Iowa Public Employees' Retirement System v. MF Global Ltd.,\" the US Second Circuit Court of Appeals overturned a decision by the District Court for the Southern District of New York, ruling that the \"bespeaks caution\" defense to securities disclosure claims applies exclusively to forward-looking statements and not to characterizations that communicate present or historical fact.\n\nIn the case of \"TSC Industries, Inc. v. Northway, Inc.\", the word \"material\" was defined by the U.S. Supreme Court - \"an omitted fact is material if there is a substantial likelihood that a reasonable shareholder would consider it important in deciding how to vote.\" There are four elements of materiality laid out in TSC: a fact must assume \"actual significance\" in the deliberations of a \"reasonable shareholder\" because the fact would have \"significantly altered\" the \"total mix\" of information available to that shareholder in making its decisions. Each of those elements is itself the subject of extensive litigation. \n\nNegligence is not sufficient for a claim under 10b-5; plaintiffs or prosecutors must show at least recklessness, purpose, or knowledge.\n\nThe purchaser/seller requirement is the requirement that, to bring an action under 10b-5, a private plaintiff must be either a buyer or a seller of the company's stock. Potential buyers who were defrauded into not buying stock may not bring a claim under 10b-5. \n\nTo recover, plaintiffs must be able to show that the fraud proximately caused their losses. Standard damages in fraud cases are expectation or benefit of bargain damages. \n\nTo what extent Rule 10b-5 prohibits insider trading is a matter of some dispute. The SEC has long advocated an \"equal access theory\" with regard to 10b-5, arguing that anyone who has material, non-public information must either disclose that information or abstain from trading. However, the Supreme Court rejected the strongest version of that theory in \"Chiarella v. United States\", holding a person with no fiduciary duty to the shareholders had no duty to disclose information before trading on it. In 1997, the Supreme Court has embraced a \"misappropriation\" theory of omissions, holding in \"United States v. O'Hagan\" that misappropriating confidential information for securities trading purposes, in breach of a duty owed to the source of that information, gives rise to a duty to disclose or abstain.\n\nBoth the SEC and private citizens can enforce the requirements of the rule through lawsuits. In Blue Chip Stamps v. Manor Drug Stores, the Supreme Court held that only purchasers or sellers of securities may bring a private action for damages under Rule 10b-5; however any member of the public may provide information to the SEC regarding possible violations of the federal securities laws.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262072", "title": "The Spirit of St. Louis (film)", "text": "The Spirit of St. Louis (film)\n\nThe Spirit of St. Louis is a 1957 aviation biography film in CinemaScope and WarnerColor from Warner Bros., directed by Billy Wilder, produced by Leland Hayward, that stars James Stewart as Charles Lindbergh. The screenplay was adapted by Charles Lederer, Wendell Mayes, and Billy Wilder from Lindbergh's 1953 autobiographical account of his historic flight, which won the Pulitzer Prize in 1954.\n\nAlong with reminiscences of his early days in aviation, the film's storyline largely focuses on Lindbergh's lengthy preparation for and finally his history-making transatlantic flight in the purpose-built \"Spirit of St. Louis\" high-wing monoplane. His take off begins at Roosevelt Field and ends 33 hours later on May 21, 1927 when he lands safely at Le Bourget Field in Paris. The film ends with actual newsreel footage of Lindbergh's ticker tape parade in New York.\nOn May 19, 1927, after waiting a week for the rain to stop on Long Island, New York, pilot Charles A. \"Slim\" Lindbergh (James Stewart) tries to sleep in a hotel near Roosevelt Field, before his transatlantic flight from New York to Paris. His friend Frank Mahoney (Bartlett Robinson) guards his hotel room door from reporters. Unable to sleep, Lindbergh reminisces about his time as an airmail pilot.\n\nFlying to Chicago in winter, \"Slim\" lands his old de Havilland biplane at a small airfield to refuel. Despite bad weather, he takes off, unaware that heavy snow has closed the Chicago landing field. Lindbergh bails out in a storm after running out of fuel. Recovering mail from his crashed DH-4, he continues to Chicago by train. A suspender salesman tells him two airmen just died competing for the Orteig Prize for the first nonstop flight from New York City to Paris. \n\nLindbergh calls Columbia Aircraft Corporation in New York from a small diner at the Lambert-St. Louis Flying Field. Quoted a price of $15,000 ($ today) for a Bellanca high-wing monoplane, \"Slim\" lobbies St. Louis financiers with a plan to fly the Atlantic in 40 hours in a stripped-down, single-engine aircraft. The backers are excited by Lindbergh's vision and dub the venture \"Spirit of St. Louis\".\n\nWhen the Bellanca deal falls apart because Columbia insists on selecting the pilot, Lindbergh approaches Ryan Aeronautical Company, a small manufacturer in San Diego, California. Frank Mahoney, the company's owner and president, promises to build a suitable monoplane in just 90 days. With Ryan's chief engineer Donald Hall (Arthur Space), a design takes shape. To decrease weight, \"Slim\" refuses to install a radio or other heavy equipment, even a parachute, and plans to navigate by \"dead reckoning\". With no autopilot function available, Lindbergh will not be able to sleep during the flight. With the deadline pressing, Ryan workers agree to work around-the-clock, completing the monoplane in just 62 days.\n\nLindbergh flies \"The Spirit of St. Louis\" to New York, stopping at Lambert Field (St. Louis Lambert International Airport) on the way to show the aircraft to his investors. He prepares for the flight at Roosevelt Field, Long Island, ensuring that 450 gallons of fuel is on board for the long flight. In the cramped cockpit, which does not allow direct forward view, the magnetic compass must fit above his head; a young woman (Patricia Smith) offers her compact mirror. \"Slim\" has the mirror stuck to the instrument panel with chewing gum, so he can read the compass. Furtively, Mahoney slips a Saint Christopher medal into a bag of sandwiches on board.\n\nAs the weather clears, \"The Spirit\" trundles down the muddy runway and barely clears electric lines and treetops. An American newspaper's headline reads: \"Lindy Is Off!\" Every hour, Lindbergh switches fuel tanks to keep the airplane's weight balanced. As Lindbergh flies over Cape Cod, he realizes he has not slept in 28 hours. He recalls past times when he slept on railroad tracks, short bunk beds, and under a windmill. When \"Slim\" begins to doze, he is awakened by a fly. Over Nova Scotia, he sees a motorcyclist below, remembering his own Harley Davidson motorcycle traded in as partial payment for his first aircraft, a World War I war-surplus Curtiss Jenny.\n\nOver the seemingly endless Atlantic, Lindbergh remembers barnstorming across the Midwest in a flying circus. After 18 hours, \"The Spirit\"s wings and engine begin icing up and the aircraft begins losing altitude. Lindbergh changes course and the ice breaks off in the warmer air and the engine, which has stopped due to icing, is restarted. Back on course, his compasses begin malfunctioning, forcing him to navigate by the stars. By dawn, \"Slim\" falls asleep, and the monoplane slowly descends in a wide spiral toward the ocean. Sunlight reflecting off the compact's mirror finally awakens him in time to regain flight control.\n\nSeeing a seagull, Lindbergh realizes he is close to land. He tries without success to hail a fisherman below. Sighting land, he determines that he has reached Dingle Bay, Ireland. Pulling out a sandwich from the bag, \"Slim\" discovers the hidden Saint Christopher medal, and hangs it on the instrument panel. Crossing the English Channel and the coast of France, Lindbergh follows the Seine up to Paris as darkness falls. \n\nFinally seeing the city lights ahead of him, \"Slim\" approaches Le Bourget Airfield in the dark, becoming disoriented by panning spotlights aimed into the sky. He glimpses strange movements and lights below, in reality huge crowds of people and traffic in and around Le Bourget. Confused by this chaos, Lindbergh begins his landing approach, quickly becoming panicked. As he goes lower, he whispers \"Oh, God, help me!\" \n\nLanding safely and bringing \"The Spirit\" to a full stop, hordes of people rush his aircraft. As flash powder ignites and photos are taken, Lindbergh is carried triumphantly on people's shoulders toward a hangar. Exhausted from no sleep, \"Slim\" eventually realizes the crowds, numbering 200,000, are cheering for him and his achievement. On returning to New York City, Lindbergh, having now become a national hero, is given a huge ticker tape parade, with four million people lining the parade route.\n\nWhen production began in August 1955, Jack Warner offered the role of Lindbergh to John Kerr, who turned it down. Numerous sources indicate that Stewart was lobbying Warner Bros. executives for the role as early as 1954. Stewart did not take a salary for the role in return for a share of the gross. At age 47 when the film was shot, Stewart even underwent a strenuous diet and regimen to look more like the real 25-year-old Lindbergh of 1927. Stewart (with hair dyed blond) was ultimately cast as Lindbergh, but his age was pointedly an issue in post-production reviews. \n\nStewart had a lifelong passion about Lindbergh and aviation. Later in his life, he said the flight by the \"Lone Eagle\" was one of the most significant episodes of his youth, leading him to seek a career as an aviator. Like Lindbergh, Stewart had been an USAAF pilot, and both eventually retired from the U.S. Air Force Reserve at the grade of Brigadier General.\n\nIn order to depict accurately the transatlantic flight, three replicas, at a cost of $1.3 million (equal to $ million today), were made of the \"Spirit of St. Louis\" for the various filming units stateside, in Europe, and for in-studio shots. A similar Ryan Brougham was bought by Stewart and modified under Lindbergh's supervision. In 1959 Stewart donated the aircraft to the Henry Ford Museum in Dearborn, Michigan. The third replica is displayed in the Missouri History Museum in St. Louis. \n\nFilming took place at the Santa Maria Public Airport in Santa Maria, California, at what is currently the site of Allan Hancock College. A non-flying replica for ground shots was also built, and hangs in the Minneapolis−Saint Paul International Airport.\nAerial sequences were directed by Paul Mantz and taken from a North American B-25 bomber converted as a camera platform for photography.\n\nDuring pre-production, in August 1955, a small film crew was sent to New York to shoot footage at Roosevelt Field in Long Island and later to take aerial sequences over the Appalachian Mountains in Nova Scotia and at St. John's, Newfoundland, recreating the initial stages of the transatlantic flight. Principal photography began on September 2, 1955, with filming taking place at L'aérodrome de Guyancourt, near Versailles, which would stand-in for le Bourget. Difficulties with Stewart's schedule led to the abandoning of aerial sequences that had been planned with the veteran pilot actually flying one of the replicas over European locales. Ultimately, staged scenes using a mock-up on a sound stage had to suffice. The film's schedule was disrupted throughout the fall and only resumed in November when Stewart had completed two other films. The original 64-day schedule ballooned into a 115-day marathon, as weather and the star's unavailability hampered the production, with final sequences shot in March 1956. The film eventually cost $7,000,000.\n\nAaron Spelling appears as Mr. Fearless in an uncredited role that marks an early foray into acting.\n\nThe film garnered mixed reviews, with Bosley Crowther at \"The New York Times\" praising the \"... exciting and suspenseful episodes\" while noting Stewart's performance as Lindbergh did not convey the human side well:The film, however, was commended for its special effects and Stewart's performance. \"Time\" in its 1957 review describes the actor's success in conveying on screen the public's perception of Lindbergh's feat three decades earlier:\n\nThe film opened at Radio City Music Hall in New York City on February 21, 1957 and helped towards setting a Broadway record gross of $829,500 for Washington's Birthday week with a gross of $160,000 at the Music Hall (also a record for Washington's Birthday).\n\nOverall, early results had not been promising, and when put on general release on April 20, 1957, \"The Spirit of St. Louis\" was a box-office failure mainly due to its huge budget (running at more than twice the original budget). \n\nIn recent years, the film has regained some of its lustre, and a modern re-evaluation has centered on the screenplay's characterization of Lindbergh and the methodical depiction of the preparations for the momentous flight. The Smithsonian Institution periodically screens the film as part of its \"classic\" series; and the DVD rerelease in 2006, with remixed and digitized elements and a small number of special features, has evoked commentary such as \"captivating\" and \"suspenseful.\"\n\nAt the 1958 Academy Awards, Louis Lichtenfield earned a nomination for Best Special Effects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262074", "title": "Susan Rook", "text": "Susan Rook\n\nSusan Rook (born ) is a journalist best known for her years as a CNN anchor and original Host of CNN's Talkback Live.\n\nRook started anchoring overnight news cutins, then moved up to more visible anchor assignments: co-anchoring \"Newsnight\" with Patrick Emory and later \"PrimeNews\" and \"Evening News\" (later renamed to World News), co-anchoring with Bernard Shaw and later hosting the topical daily talk show \"TalkBack Live\". Rook was one of the three panelists, along with Helen Thomas and Gene Gibbons, in the 3rd 1992 United States presidential election debate with then president George H.W. Bush and future president Bill Clinton. She was also a general assignment reporter in New Orleans and Ft Myers, FL before coming to CNN. She is a graduate of George Mason University\n\nShe originally turned down the offer to Anchor on CNN. She took the job after the News Director in New Orleans spiked her investigative story about political corruption. She turned the story over to Ron Ridenhour (an investigative reporter for City Business). Ridenhour was the soldier who sent the letter to Congress that sparked the investigation into the My Lai Massacre.\n\nRidenhour won the Polk Award for his articles beginning with \"T ax Dodge: Millions Go Uncollected; City Hall Protects The Favored Few\". Ridenhour's refusal to give up confidential sources ended up before the Louisiana Supreme Court.\n\nThe Ridenhour Prizes \"recognize those who persevere in acts of truth-telling that protect the public interest, promote social justice or illuminate a more just vision of society.\"\n\nSusan Rook says, \"My proudest professional achievement remains uncovering the story that doesn't bear my name. This started because a kid died in a fire right down the street from a firehouse closed because of NOLA City budget issues. This was a poor, black kid. The powers that be didn't care. My source cared. I cared. Ron cared. There must be something larger than merely self in order to live a fulfilling life.\"\n\nSusan Rook was born to Bill, a CIA psychologist, and Edie, a teacher; her brother Bill was born about a year earlier. She was homeschooled for much of her young life and skipped the 6th and 12th grades. As a result, she was younger than normal when she began attending George Mason University.\n\nRook was a reporter for WBBH-TV in Fort Myers, Florida, and WVUE-TV in New Orleans, Louisiana, before she was hired at CNN in 1987.\n\nOn October 19, 1992, Rook was a panelist, alongside Gene Gibbons of Reuters and Helen Thomas of UPI, for the third debate of the 1992 presidential election, hosted by Jim Lehrer of \"The MacNeil/Lehrer NewsHour\" on PBS. C-Span interviewed Rook about her Presidential Debate experience.\n\nAt CNN, Rook co-hosted \"CNN PrimeNews\" with Bernard Shaw and was the host of \"Talkback Live\" from its inception in 1994.\n\nRook left CNN in 1997. She hosted a panel on education for the Republican Governors Association in November 1998.\n\nRook was a part of the coverage of the millennium celebrations for PBS in 1999–2000.\n\nRook married Ed Turner, former executive vice president of CNN, in 1993. They divorced in 1994. Turner died of cancer in 2002.\n\nRook is a recovering alcoholic and drug addict.\n\nIn 2000, Rook traveled to Nepal and climbed to the base camp of Mount Everest.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262076", "title": "Dingmans Ferry, Pennsylvania", "text": "Dingmans Ferry, Pennsylvania\n\nDingmans Ferry is an unincorporated community in Delaware Township, Pike County, Pennsylvania, United States. As of 2014, it had a population of 7,477 people. It was originally sited on the Delaware River, in an area now included in the Delaware Water Gap National Recreation Area. When the Corps of Engineers acquired the land by eminent domain in the mid-twentieth century for the creation of the proposed Tocks Island Dam project, it relocated the community further up the hill.\n\nLocal objections to the dam and purchasing of land willingly or by eminent domain had delayed the project for years, but preparations ended for certain when it was learned that the proposed dam site was on a fault line. When the dam project was cancelled, the National Park Service was tasked with managing the property for the Corps so far as public use was concerned. The land purchased by the Corps was converted to the Delaware National Recreation Area.\n\nNearby attractions include Factory Falls, Fulmer Falls, and Deer Leap Falls in Childs Recreation Area and Silverthread Falls and Dingmans Falls, all on Dingmans Creek. Dingmans Ferry is located at 41°13'North, 74°52'West.\n\nDingmans Ferry is now the name of the post office (ZIP Code 18328) that serves Delaware and Porter townships. The post office is located within the borders of Delaware Township. Delaware Township is governed by a Board of Supervisors; there is no mayor of Dingmans Ferry. The community is served by area codes 570 and 272.\n\nThe Dingmans Ferry Bridge is the last privately owned toll bridge on the Delaware River, and one of the few remaining in the country.\n\nThe Dingman's Ferry Dutch Reformed Church was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1979. It was converted to a residence in 1957 but was not altered on the exterior, which had wooden columns modelled after Roman marble ones.\n\nDingman-Delaware Primary, Elementary and Middle Schools are located in the area.\n\nBirchwood Lake Estates, New Marcel Lake Estates, Old Marcel Lake, Pocono Mountain Water Forest, Pocono Mountain Lake Forest, and Wild Acres.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262081", "title": "Historic New England", "text": "Historic New England\n\nHistoric New England, previously known as the Society for the Preservation of New England Antiquities (SPNEA), is a charitable, non-profit, historic preservation organization headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts. It is focused on New England and is the oldest and largest regional preservation organization in the United States. Historic New England owns and operates historic site museums and study properties throughout all of the New England states except Vermont, and serves more than 198,000 visitors and program participants each year. Approximately 48,000 visitors participate in school and youth programs focused on New England heritage.\n\nHistoric New England is a museum of cultural history that collects and preserves buildings, landscapes, and objects dating from the seventeenth century to the present and uses them to keep history alive and to help people develop a deeper understanding and enjoyment of New England life and appreciation for its preservation.\n\nWilliam Sumner Appleton Jr. founded the Society for the Preservation of new England Antiquities in 1910 for \"the purpose of preserving for posterity buildings, places and objects of historical and other interest.\" Fearing that \"our New England antiquities are fast disappearing because no society has made their preservation its exclusive object,\" Sumner Appleton and a small group of like-minded individuals founded SPNEA in 1910. By 1920, Director of Museums Harry Vinton Long wrote in his report that the museum’s purpose is \"to preserve and illustrate the life of New Englanders...\" The history of New Englanders encompasses the stories of family life, immigration, school girls' routines, servants' duties, the enslaved Africans, and the products of masons, carpenters, and furniture makers. The first annual meeting was held at the 41 Brimmer Street Boston home of Mary Lee Ware, a noted philanthropist in the area as well at the patroness of Harvard University's famed Glass Flowers collection.\n\nAccession records for 1910 list 19 items. Appleton considered everything from the mundane to the singular worth preserving, and so Historic New England's collection today ranges from everyday cakes of soap to extraordinary specimens of fine furniture. As a comprehensive heritage organization, Historic New England today cares for historic properties and landscapes; holds preservation easements and undertakes preservation advocacy work to protect historic properties; develops, maintains and interprets artifact collections; operates a library and archive; researches and publishes books and \"Historic New England\" magazine; and provides educational programs for children and adults. The organization's mission statement outlines its goals: \"We serve the public by preserving and presenting New England heritage.\" The organization focuses on New England domestic architecture, collections, and stories.\n\nFounder William Sumner Appleton was succeeded as Director by Bertram K. Little, Abbott Lowell Cummings and Nancy R. Coolidge before the title of the chief executive officer was changed to President, with Jane C. Nylander and now Carl R. Nold serving in that capacity.\n\nThe organization formerly included one of America's most prominent architectural conservation centers (the SPNEA Conservation Center), which pioneered a number of conservation techniques under research leader Morgan W. Phillips and his apprentices. Phillips is credited with coining the term architectural conservation.\n\nHistoric New England currently owns and operates 37 house museums and 1,284 acres of farmland and landscapes across five New England states, representing nearly 400 years of architecture. It also owns a wide-ranging collection of more than 100,000 objects of historical and aesthetic significance, the largest such assemblage of New England art and artifacts in the country. It also archives more than one million items documenting New England architectural and cultural history, including photographs, prints and engravings, more than 20,000 architectural drawings and specifications, books, manuscripts, and other ephemera. The Collections Access Project, which provides Internet-based access to catalog data about many of the collections, went online during the organization's centennial in 2010. A Collections and Conservation Center is located in Haverhill, Massachusetts, in a former shoe factory building. While not open to the public, this facility provides for the proper care of collections and access to collections and collections information for curators, students and scholars. Other museums also rent space for collections storage in this facility. Historic New England also owns the Plum Island Airport, a small public general aviation airport located in Newburyport, Massachusetts on a site used for aviation since 1910. The airport is located on the property of the historic Spencer-Peirce-Little Farm, donated to the organization in 1971 and operated as a museum since 1986.\n\nA traveling exhibition program presents collections and research to the general public, in cooperation with other museums throughout the region. Exhibitions have included \"America's Kitchens\", which appeared at the New Hampshire Historical Society in 2009; \"Drawing Toward Home\", an architectural drawing exhibition that opened at the Boston University Art Gallery in November 2009 and traveled to the National Building Museum in Washington, D.C. during 2010; and a centennial exhibition entitled \"The Preservation Movement Then and Now\", which appeared in all six New England states beginning in late 2009 and continued through 2013.\n\nOn line exhibitions include \"Jewelry at Historic New England\", \"The Preservation Movement Then and Now\", \"From Dairy to Doorstep: Milk Delivery in New England, 1860-1960\" and \"New England Photographs of Verner Reed\".\n\nThrough a conservation easement program established in the early 1980s, Historic New England holds easements on 97 () privately owned New England properties. It works with the owners of these properties to ensure preservation of their character-defining historic features. The program provides comprehensive protection of exterior, interior and landscape features and is considered a national model for the protection of buildings that remain in active use and in private ownership. Approximately one-third of the properties in the program were previously owned by Historic New England, and were returned to private ownership with preservation restrictions that continue in perpetuity. The balance of the properties were enrolled by current or former owners, who donated the deed restrictions to the organization along with endowment fund contributions. Endowment funds provide for the monitoring and enforcement of the easements, carried out by a full-time staff dedicated to that purpose.\n\nA Historic Homeowner program, available to all for an annual membership fee, provides information to those who own historic houses of any age, up to and including mid-20th-century homes. The annual membership includes two consultations with staff experts, one on historic paint colors, and a second on a topic chosen by the member, ranging from window repair to roofing materials, hardware source or historic wallpaper selections, or other topics needed for the care of historic homes. Other specialized membership programs focus on Gardens and Landscapes, and on young adults through the Young Friends program, and an upper-level membership society called the Appleton Circle provides benefactor support for organizational programs.\n\nHistoric New England is a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt non-profit organization operating under the direction of a 15-member board of trustees.\n\nThe following properties are open to the public. Most are open only during the warmer months (typically June to mid-October), and many are open only for limited days on selected weekends. Particularly fragile properties are open only a few days each year. The grounds and facilities of some properties (notable ones being the Lyman Estate and the Langdon House) are available for private functions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262082", "title": "Barbara Babcock", "text": "Barbara Babcock\n\nBarbara Babcock (born February 27, 1937) is an American character actress. She is perhaps best known for her role as Grace Gardner on \"Hill Street Blues\", for which she won an Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actress—Drama Series in 1981, and her role as Dorothy Jennings on \"Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman\", for which she was nominated for an Emmy Award in 1993.\n\nAlthough she was born in the United States, Babcock spent a large part of her childhood in Tokyo, Japan, where her father, U.S. Army Gen. Conrad Stanton Babcock, Jr., was stationed. She learned to speak Japanese before English.\n\nBabcock studied at Switzerland's University of Lausanne and Italy's University of Milan. She also attended Miss Porter's School and graduated from Wellesley College, where she was a classmate of Ali MacGraw.\n\nBabcock's television appearances began in 1956. They included several episodes of the original series of \"\", although much of her work on the show consisted of uncredited voice roles. In 1968, she made her debut on the big screen in the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer western \"Day of the Evil Gun\", followed by roles in the films \"Heaven with a Gun\", co-starring Glenn Ford, \"Bang the Drum Slowly\", \"Chosen Survivors\", \"The Black Marble\", \"Back Roads\", \"The Lords of Discipline\" and \"That Was Then... This Is Now\". From 1978 to 1982, she played the role of Liz Craig on the CBS soap opera \"Dallas\". Other notable films include \"Heart of Dixie\", \"Happy Together\", \"Far and Away\" and \"Space Cowboys\".\n\nBabcock won the 1981 Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actress—Drama Series for her work on \"Hill Street Blues\". She appeared in 16 episodes of the NBC police drama as Grace Gardner from 1981 to 1986. She starred in the short-lived TV series \"The Four Seasons\" in 1984, \"Mr. Sunshine\" in 1986 and \"The Law & Harry McGraw\" in 1987.\n\nFrom 1993 to 1998, she played the role of Dorothy Jennings on \"Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman\" for which she was nominated for an Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series in 1993. (However, the Emmy Awards website lists the nomination for 1995.) She was voted one of the 50 Most Beautiful People in the World by \"People\" magazine in 1994. After completion of the show in 1998, she appeared in \"The Pretender\", \"Chicago Hope\", \"Frasier\" and \"Judging Amy\". From 2001 to 2002, she played the role of the mother of Dana Delany's character in the Fox drama series \"Pasadena\". \n\nIn 2004, Babcock was diagnosed with Parkinson's disease and now resides in Carmel, California.\n\nBabcock and actress Susan Bjurman received a patent for a shampoo that they developed.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262084", "title": "Shimono-shima", "text": "Shimono-shima\n\n (Kōzaki:Southernmost point)\n"}
{"id": "2262094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262094", "title": "Flat Rock, Stokes County, North Carolina", "text": "Flat Rock, Stokes County, North Carolina\n\nFlat Rock is an unincorporated community in Stokes County, North Carolina, United States, approximately five miles east of the town of Pilot Mountain.\n\nIt is one of three places in North Carolina named Flat Rock.\n"}
{"id": "2262096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262096", "title": "The Groove Tube", "text": "The Groove Tube\n\nThe Groove Tube is a 1974 American independent comedy film written and produced by Ken Shapiro and starring Shapiro, Richard Belzer and Chevy Chase. It features the song \"Move On Up\" by Curtis Mayfield in its opening scene.\n\nThe low-budget movie satirizes television and the counterculture of the early 1970s. The film was derived from sketches shot on videotape and shown at the Channel One Theater on East 60th St. in New York, a venue that featured R-rated video recordings shown on three television sets, which was a novelty to the audiences of the time. Compilations of sketches from these presentations were taken on tour to college venues, and based on audience responses, the best-received sketches were restaged on film with most of the original actors reprising their roles. The news desk satire, including the signature line \"Good night, and have a pleasant tomorrow,\" was later used by Chase for his signature \"Weekend Update\" piece on \"Saturday Night Live\", although in the film he does not appear in that segment.\n\nRanda Haines, who later directed \"Children of a Lesser God\", was script supervisor.\n\n\nThe film currently holds a score of 13% on Rotten Tomatoes based on 8 reviews with an average rating of 3.75/10.\n\nHoward Thompson of \"The New York Times\" wrote, \"It is indeed wild, and often hilarious. But much of it is blandly dull.\" Gene Siskel of the \"Chicago Tribune\" gave the film 3 stars out of 4 and stated, \"Television is such a ripe subject for satire that a new comedy film roasts the medium quite well without taking a poke at such natural targets as bigot-led situation comedies, educational kiddie shows, station editorials, or the 'happy-talk' news format.\" Kevin Thomas of the \"Los Angeles Times\" stated, \"Silly, sophomoric and scatological 'The Groove Tube' undoubtedly is for much of its 75 minutes. But so gleeful and zany is it in its sheer outrageousness that the result is virtually nonstop hilarity.\" John M. Dower of \"The Washington Post\" said, \"There are sequences in 'The Groove Tube' that are absolutely inspired, and, unfortunately, not describable in a family newspaper; there are others that make you wonder how the same perceptions could think them funny or amusing or even conceivable.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262098", "title": "Cummins L-series engine", "text": "Cummins L-series engine\n\nThe Cummins L-series engine is a straight-six diesel engine designed and produced by Cummins. It displaces , and began production in 1982 as the L10 at the Jamestown Engine Plant in Jamestown, New York. After lengthening its stroke from 136 to 147mm, its displacement was enlarged to 10.8 litres and the engine renamed ISM 11, later M11.\n\nThe ISL 9 and current L9 engines are not related to the L10 engine, but instead based on the smaller C-series platform with the 135mm stroke of the C8.3 enlarged to 144.5mm, together with 4 valves per cylinder, giving it 8.9 litres displacement.\n\nThe L10 displaced , and was available in either a vertical form, for upright use in trucks and buses, or horizontal form, for underfloor use in buses and trains. The L10 was Cummins's first competitive offering in the British bus market, as their earlier production had been too large and heavy. However, it had a troublesome introduction to the British market, with high oil consumption and sealing problems.\n\nBy 1994, it had been developed into the M11, and in 1998, Cummins ceased production of the old L-series engine. After the original L10 evolved into the M11 engine, the new ISL9 engine was introduced to operate in this market segment, yet with a better power to weight ratio, by enlarging the piston stroke of the older C8.3 engine. The Cummins L10 also has a sister engine which runs on compressed natural gas (CNG). The engine was introduced in 1992 as the L10G before being replaced by the L Gas Plus in 2001 until it became the ISL G in collaboration with Westport Innovations in 2008, now based on the C-series engine architecture. The ISL engines were manufactured at plants in Rocky Mount, North Carolina and Darlington, England.\n\nIn 2016 onwards, the ISL9 was simplified to L9, though physically it shares no resemblance to the old L10 engine: The current L9 engine is a stroked version of the C8.3 engine platform, while the current M11 engine is a stroked version of the original L10 engine platform.\n\nDiesel-powered urban bus\n\nNatural gas-powered urban bus (ISL-G and ISL-G Near Zero)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262102", "title": "Lucinda Dickey", "text": "Lucinda Dickey\n\nLucinda Dickey (born Lucinda Marie Henninger; August 14, 1960) is an American former dancer and actress. She is best known for her leading role in the film \"Breakin'\" (1984) and its sequel \"\" (1984).\n\nDickey was born and raised in Hutchinson, Kansas, where at the age of four, she began dancing in her mother's studio (Judy Mason operated Judy's School of Dance from 1964 to 2006). While attending Kansas State University she majored in dance and competed as Miss Manhattan/Kansas-State in the Miss Kansas pageant, where she won the talent division and finished third runner-up.\n\nIn 1980, Dickey moved to Los Angeles and won a dance scholarship with the Roland DuPree Dance Academy. After 10 months, she became one of the lead dancers for the movie \"Grease 2\". In fall 1982 she landed a stint as a dancer on \"Solid Gold\".\n\nHer first leading role was in \"\", the shooting for which took place in 1983. In May 1984, Dickey appeared in the role of jazz dancer turned breakdancer Kelly in \"Breakin'\" and its sequel, \"\" (Dec. 1984). Next came the horror flick \"Cheerleader Camp\", in 1987.\n\nDickey's last onscreen acting role was in the 1990 Perry Mason television movie, \"Perry Mason: The Case of the Defiant Daughter\".\n\nShe appeared as a dance judge on TLC's 2008 series \"Master Of Dance\".\n\nShe retired from acting in 1990, and lives in California with her husband, Craig Piligian, a co-executive producer of, among his credits, the reality TV game show \"Survivor\". They have two children, Joseph Michael (b. 1986) and Amanda Marie (b. 1989).\n\n"}
{"id": "2262111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262111", "title": "Microvascular decompression", "text": "Microvascular decompression\n\nMicrovascular decompression (MVD), also known as the Jannetta procedure, is a neurosurgical procedure used to treat trigeminal neuralgia (along with other cranial nerve neuralgias) a pain syndrome characterized by severe episodes of intense facial pain, and hemifacial spasm. The procedure is also used experimentally to treat tinnitus and vertigo caused by vascular compression on the vestibulocochlear nerve.\n\nNicholas Andre first described trigeminal neuralgia in 1756. In 1891 Sir Victor Horsley proposed the first open surgical procedure for the disorder involving the sectioning of preganglionic rootlets of the trigeminal nerve. Walter Dandy in 1925 was an advocate of partial sectioning of the nerve in the posterior cranial fossa. During this procedure he noted compression of the nerve by vascular loops, and in 1932 proposed the theory that trigeminal neuralgia was caused by compression of the nerve by blood vessels, typically the superior cerebellar artery. With the advent of the operative microscope, Peter J. Jannetta was able to further confirm this theory in 1967 and advocated moving the offending vessel and placing a sponge to prevent the vessel from returning to its native position as a treatment for trigeminal neuralgia.\n\nPatients most likely to benefit from a microvascular decompression have a classic form of trigeminal neuralgia. The diagnosis of this disorder is on the basis of the patients' symptoms and from a neurological examination. No blood test or genetic marker exists to diagnose the disease. An MRI scan can help eliminate other diagnoses. Newer MRI techniques may allow for the visualization of vascular compression of the nerve. Patients who improve with an MVD are likely to have pain which is episodic rather than constant. The pain typically has an electrical quality to it and is intense. The pain can usually be triggered. Common triggers include light touch, eating, talking or putting on make-up. Most patients whose face pain improved with an MVD also improved at least temporarily with medication. \n\nIn addition to having the proper type of pain, candidates for an MVD must also be healthy enough to undergo surgery. The risk of surgery may increase with increasing patient age.\n\nPatients are put to sleep using general anaesthesia and are positioned on their back with their head turned or on their side with the symptomatic side facing up. Electrical monitoring of facial function and hearing is used. A straight incision is made two finger-breadths behind the ear about the length of the ear. A portion of the skull around 30 mm (1.2 inches) in diameter is removed exposing the underlying brain covering known as the dura. The dura is opened to expose the cerebellum. The cerebellum is allowed to fall out of the way exposing the side of the brainstem. Using a microscope and micro-instruments, the arachnoid membrane is dissected allowing visualization of the 8th, 7th and finally the trigeminal nerve. The offending loop of blood vessel is then mobilized. Frequently a groove or indentation is seen in the nerve where the offending vessel was in contact with the nerve. Less often the nerve is thin and pale. Once the vessel is mobilized a sponge like material is placed between the nerve and the offending blood vessel to prevent the vessel from returning to its native position.\n\nAfter the decompression is complete, the wound is flushed clean with saline solution. The dura is sewn closed. The skull is reconstructed and the overlying tissues are closed in multiple layers. The patient is allowed to wake up and is taken to an intensive care unit or other close observation unit.\n\nThe largest reported series of MVDs was reported by Jannetta and published in \"The New England Journal of Medicine\" in 1996. The initial success rate was 82% for complete relief with an additional 16% having partial relief for a combined initial success rate of 98%. At 10 year follow-up, 68% had excellent or good relief. 32% had recurrent symptoms. Other series report similar or better results.\n\nSerious complications from an MVD include death (0.1%), stroke (1%), hearing loss (3%) and facial weakness (0.5%). Dr. Jannetta has called facial paralysis (as opposed to weakness) a \"major and common complication of the MVD.\" (2 separate depositions under oath: Levy v Jannetta, CCP Allegheny County, GD 81-7689.\n\nOther complications include leakage of spinal fluid and wound infection (1%). Most patients will have transient neck pain and stiffness from the surgical incision and from seeding of the spinal fluid with small amounts of blood.\n\nSeveral other surgical procedures exist for the treatment of trigeminal neuralgia, including percutaneous rhizotomy, percutaneous glycerol injection, percutaneous balloon compression, rhyzotomy and stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS). When compared to the other procedures, MVD carries the highest long-term success rate but it also carries the highest risk.\n"}
{"id": "2262120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262120", "title": "Nuna", "text": "Nuna\n\nNuna is the name of a series of manned solar powered race cars that have won the World Solar Challenge in Australia seven times: in 2001, 2003, 2005, 2007, 2013, 2015 and 2017. The vehicles are built by students who are part of the \"Vattenfall Solar Team\" (formerly Nuon Solar Team) at the Delft University of Technology in the Netherlands, sponsored by Vattenfall (formerly N.V. Nuon Energy).\n\nTo have a good chance to win, the car has to:\n\nThe solar cells are made of gallium arsenide (GaAs) and consist of three layers. Sunlight that penetrates the upper layer is used in the lower layers, resulting in an efficiency of over 26%. This type of solar cell is among the best available currently. Apart from efficiency, size also matters, so the entire upper surface of the Nuna 3 is covered with them, except for the cockpit.\n\nEfficiency is optimal when the cells are hit by the solar rays perpendicularly. If not, output is reduced by roughly the cosine of the angle with the perpendicular. \nA solar cell gives a certain amount of current for a certain amount of sunlight. The voltage depends on the load (more precisely the resistance of the load). The power is the product of voltage and current and therefore also depends on the load. Over a certain voltage the current of the solar cell quickly drops to zero, as the graph illustrates.\n\nHowever, the batteries have a fairly constant voltage, which also has a rather different value than that of the solar cells. So a voltage transformation is needed. A special type of DC-DC converter is used to ensure the load resistance presented to the solar cells is such that the solar cells give maximum power, so also at the top of the green line in the graph. This is called a Maximum power point tracker (MPPT). Here too, the goal is to have this conversion achieve maximum efficiency (>97%).\n\nThe aerodynamic drag is an important part of the total resistance. Important are the frontal surface area and the coefficient of drag. The shape must be designed to preserve laminar flow, as turbulence causes increased surface drag. The ideal shape is achieved in various stages:\nFrom meteorological data at the area where the contest is to take place, it can be concluded that there will likely be a strong side-wind. The wheel caps of the Nuna 3 are designed such that a sidewind will have a propulsory effect.\n\nThe motor is totally encased in the rear wheel to minimise loss through mechanical transmission from motor to wheel (such as in a normal car in the gear box and cardan). The motor is an improved version of the original 1993 Motor of the Spirit of Biel III by the Engineering School of Biel, Switzerland (now: Berner Fachhochschule Technik und Informatik). The improvements are due to completely redeveloped digital power electronics and control, realized 1999. They allowed for 50% more power (over 2400 W) and a 45% higher torque compared to the 1993 Spirit of Biel II. The efficiency of the total drive system (including the power electronics losses) is also improved and is now over 98%. But as the graph shows this depends somewhat on the speed and increases with speed. The design was initially made to reach its maximum performance at the normal cruising speed of the solar car at around 100 km/h.\n\nWinning the race requires not just a good vehicle but also a clever way of driving it, in accordance with the characteristics of the track. Which is why this has been researched for two months prior to the race. Height differences are mapped and linked to GPS data. From this, during the race, the optimal speed can be determined. \n\nDespite all testing and other preparations, one uncertain factor remains; the weather. Any clouds would strongly influence the amount of sunlight that can be captured. So any weather changes along the track will have to be constantly monitored. All these data are analysed by a computer model that constantly computes the ideal speed for that moment. This equipment is built into (petrol powered) pilot cars. Through telemetry these constantly receive data about the condition of the batteries and the amount of captured sunlight.\n\nEach version of the Nuna has been built by a team consisting of students of the Delft University of Technology. The team has between ten and twenty team members. They take a year off from their studies to design and build a new version of the solar racer from scratch. \nIn 2001 the Nuna 1 was built by the alpha-centauri team. They were provided with guidance from former astronaut Wubbo Ockels.\nSince 2002 the team has been called the Nuon Solar Team and have had Ockels providing advice and assistance.\n\nThe first Nuna Team (\"Alpha Centauri Team\") was sponsored by Nuon. The team consisted mainly of students from the Delft University of Technology who were guided by former astronaut Wubbo Ockels. It was the first time that the Dutch team participated in the race, and they won the 3021 km long race in 32 hours and 39 minutes, breaking the old record by the Honda-team from 1996 (33 hours and 32 minutes). The average speed was 91.8 kilometer per hour.\n\nNuna 2 won the race in 31.05 hours averaging a speed of 97.02 km/h for the 3021 km course, breaking the course record of the team's previous Nuna 1.\n\nNuna 3 was one of the favourites for the 2005 edition of the World Solar Challenge with a pre-race test-drive speed of 130 km/h. The final result was that the 3021 kilometers between Darwin and Adelaide were covered in a record 29 hours and 11 minutes, averaging about 103 km/h. This is still the current record for the World Solar Challenge.\n\nThe main changes to the Nuna 4 from its predecessor the Nuna 3 are a steering wheel instead of levers, an upright seat instead of the driver lying down and a smaller solar panel of 6 m² compared to the previous 9 m². These changes were necessitated by changes in the rules prompted by alleged safety concerns and attempts to make the car more like a real car, and by reductions in the speed limit on Australian roads. The Nuna 4 won in 2007.\n\nThe main changes to the Nuna 5 from its predecessor the Nuna 4 was the diminished battery weight, changing from 30 kg in 2007 to 25 kg. Other changes required cars not be allowed to race on previously used slicks (smooth tires), instead requiring profiled (treaded or grooved) tires. Also, the driver was required to sit more upright with a seating angle of, at most, 27 degrees.\n\nThe main changes to the Nuna 6 from its predecessor the Nuna 5 is the change of solar cells to Monocrystalline silicon cells, and the battery mass - both in accordance with the new rules. The weight of the car and aerodynamic drag have also been reduced.\n\nThe main change to the Nuna 7 from its predecessors is that it has four wheels instead of three, as required by the new rules of the World solar challenge. The vehicle is also asymmetric, as the driver's cabin is on the right side. The weight of the batteries and vehicle are barely changed with respect to its predecessor, Nuna 6. Nuna 7 won the 2013 Bridgestone World Solar Challenge.\n\nIn the challenger class, the team from Delft University of Technology retained the title with Nuna 8 and an average speed of 91.75 km/h (57.01 mph), just ahead of their Dutch counterparts, the University of Twente, who led most of the race, but finished just 8 minutes behind them in second place. A modified version of the car, Nuna 8S, won the 2016 Sasol Solar Challenge in South Africa.\n\nIn the challenger class, the team from Delft again retained their title with Nuna 9 and an average speed of 81.2 km/h (50.5 mph), just ahead of the University of Michigan Solar Car Team. A modified version of the car, Nuna 9S, won the 2018 Sasol Solar Challenge in South Africa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262127", "title": "William Henry Marsh", "text": "William Henry Marsh\n\nSir William Henry Marsh (1827–21 July 1906; Chinese Translated Name: 馬殊; 馬師 also infrequently used) was a British colonial administrator, who governed Hong Kong twice. The first tenure started in March 1882, and ended in March 1883, when Sir George Bowen succeeded him as the 9th Governor of Hong Kong. The second tenure started in December 1885, and ended in April, 1887, when Major-General William Cameron succeeded him as Colonial Administrator.\n\nMarsh Road in Wan Chai, Hong Kong Island and Marsh Street in Hung Hom were named after him.\n"}
{"id": "2262129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262129", "title": "False prophet", "text": "False prophet\n\nIn religion, a false prophet is a person who falsely claims the gift of prophecy or divine inspiration, or to speak for God, or who makes such claims for evil ends. Often, someone who is considered a \"true prophet\" by some people is simultaneously considered a \"false prophet\" by others, even within the same religion as the \"prophet\" in question. In a wider sense, it is anyone who, without having it, claims a special connection to the Deity and sets him or herself up as a source of spirituality, as an authority, preacher, or teacher. Analogously, the term is sometimes applied outside religion to describe someone who fervently promotes a theory that the speaker thinks is false.\n\nThroughout the New Testament, there are warnings of both false prophets and false Messiahs, and believers are adjured to be vigilant, for example, the Sermon on the Mount (Matthew ):\n\nThe New Testament addresses the same point of a false prophet predicting correctly and Jesus predicted the future appearance of false Christs and false prophets, affirming that they can perform great signs and miracles, for example, the Olivet Discourse:\n\nIn the Gospel of Luke, Jesus brought out an ethical application for his disciples using the analogy of false prophets in the Old Testament:\n\nIn the Acts of the Apostles, Paul and Barnabas encountered a false prophet named Elymas Bar-Jesus on the island of Cyprus:\n\nThis particular story likewise best matches the model found in Deuteronomy. The claim here is that Elymas is trying to turn Sergius Paulus from the true faith, just like the false prophet described in the preceding verses. In these verses, we do not see Elymas prophesying as the term is popularly understood, so the model seems to fit this scenario best.\n\nThe Second Epistle of Peter makes a comparison between false teachers and false prophets and how the former will bring in false teachings, just like the false prophets of old:\n\nThe First Epistle of John warns those of the Christian faith to test every spirit because of these false prophets:\n\nOne well-known New Testament false prophet is the false prophet mentioned in the Book of Revelation. The Apocalypse's false prophet is the agent of the Beast, and he is ultimately cast with the Beast into the lake of \"fire and brimstone\" (Revelation , ). The character traits of the beast from the land are revealed in its divided personality (Rev. 13:11). It appears outwardly benign as a lamb, but its discourse reveals its true nature: It speaks like a dragon. Another mention of a false prophet in the New Testament is an antichrist spirit which denies the Son.\n\nThe Quran portrays Muhammad as the Seal of the Prophets, which is understood by mainstream Sunni and Shia Muslims to mean that anyone who claims to be a new prophet after him is a false prophet. All mainstream Muslim scholars' perspectives from both Sunni and Shia denominations do not see the second coming of the Messiah as the coming of a new prophet, as the Islamic Messiah Jesus had already been an existing prophet, and will rule by the Qur'an and Sunnah of Muhammad, bringing no new revelation or prophecy.\n\nThawban ibn Kaidad narrated that Muhammad said;\nAbu Hurairah narrated that Muhammad said;\nMuhammad also stated that the last of these Dajjals would be the False Messiah, al-Masih ad-Dajjal (Antichrist):\n\nSamra ibn Jundab reported once Muhammad (while delivering a ceremonial speech at an occasion of a solar eclipse) said;\nAnas ibn Malik narrated that Muhammad said;\nImam Mahdi, the redeemer according to Islam, will appear on Earth before the Day of Judgment. At the time of the Second Coming of Christ, the Prophet 'Isa (Jesus Christ son of Mary) will kill al-Masih ad-Dajjal (The Antichrist).\nMuslims believe that both Jesus and Mahdi will rid the world of wrongdoing, injustice and tyranny, ensuring peace and tranquility.\n\nJesus is rejected in Judaism as a failed Jewish Messiah claimant and a false prophet.\n\nThe Books of Kings records a story where, under duress from Ahab, the prophet Micaiah depicts God as requesting information from his heavenly counsel as to what he should do with a court of false prophets. This depiction is recorded in 1 Kings 22:19–23:\n\nIt is possible that Micaiah meant to depict the false prophets as a test from YHWH. It is also possible that it was meant as a slur on Ahab's prophets, such as Zedekiah, the son of Chenaanah.\n\nThe penalty for false prophecy, including speaking in the name of a god other than YHWH or speaking presumptuously in YHWH's name, is death. Likewise, if a prophet makes a prophecy in the name of YHWH that does not come to pass, that is another sign that he is not commissioned of YHWH and that the people need not fear the false prophet.\n\nThe Jewish Koine Greek term \"pseuoprophetes\" occurs in the Septuagint Jeremiah 6:13, 33:8,11 34:7, 36:1,8, Zechariah 13:2, Josephus' Antiquities 8-13-1,10-7-3, War of the Jews 6-5-2, and Philo Specific Laws 3:8. Classical pagan writers use the term \"pseudomantis\".\n\nThe term \"false prophet\" is sometimes applied outside religion, to describe promoters of scientific, medical, or political theories which the author of the phrase thinks are false. Paul Offit's 2008 book \"Autism's False Prophets\" applied the phrase to promoters of unproven theories and therapies such as the unsupported relationship between thiomersal and vaccines and chelation therapy. Ronald Bailey's 1993 book \"Ecoscam: The False Prophets of Ecological Apocalypse\" applied the phrase to promoters of the global warming hypothesis; however, by 2005 Bailey had changed his mind, writing \"Anyone still holding onto the idea that there is no global warming ought to hang it up.\"\n"}
{"id": "2262133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262133", "title": "PBS Wisconsin", "text": "PBS Wisconsin\n\nPBS Wisconsin (formerly Wisconsin Public Television or WPT) is a state network of non-commercial educational television stations operated primarily by the Wisconsin Educational Communications Board and the University of Wisconsin–Madison. It comprises all of the Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) member stations in the state outside of Milwaukee.\n\nThe state network is available via flagship station WHA-TV in Madison and five full-power satellite stations throughout most of Wisconsin. As of April 5, 2009, all stations have converted to digital-only transmissions. PBS Wisconsin is also available on most satellite and cable television outlets.\n\nUntil the gradual move of instructional broadcasting to IPTV services, the network, as Wisconsin Public Television, was the main conduit of educational television, GED preparation and instructional television programming produced by the WECB, which aired through PBS, Annenberg Media, those stations serving portions of Wisconsin without a WPT station, and other educational television distributors. As of October 2014, the WECB now distributes this programming exclusively online, allowing the over-the-air network to carry PBS programming full-time.\n\nWHA-TV signed on the air on May 3, 1954 as the first educational station in Wisconsin and the seventh in the United States. WHA-TV is the only public television station in the country that maintains a three-letter callsign, and one of only three analog-era UHF stations altogether (along with WHP-TV in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania and WWJ-TV in Detroit) with a three-letter callsign.\n\nWisconsin was a relative latecomer to educational television, despite its earlier leading role in educational radio. Channel 21's radio sister, WHA-AM, is one of the oldest educational radio stations in the world. By the time channel 21 signed on, UW had already launched a radio network that evolved into today's Wisconsin Public Radio. However, for most of the time from the 1950s through the 1970s, it was one of only three stations in the state that was a member of National Educational Television and its successor, PBS. The others were WMVS (channel 10) and WMVT (channel 36) in Milwaukee. The only other areas of the state outside of Milwaukee and Madison that had a clear signal from an NET/PBS member station were the northwest (from Duluth, Minnesota's WDSE-TV) and the southwest (from the Twin Cities's KTCA-TV). During the late 60s and into the early 70s, commercial station KFIZ-TV in Fond du Lac was contracted by the UW-Madison Board of Regents to simulcast portions of WHA-TV's broadcast day, bringing WHA's programming into the Green Bay and Milwaukee markets.\nIn 1971, the state legislature created the Wisconsin Educational Communications Board, activating five stations as semi-satellites of WHA-TV during the 1970s. The first was WPNE-TV in Green Bay in 1972, ending KFIZ-TV's part-time affiliation with WHA (and hastening its demise only two months after WPNE went on the air). This was followed by WHWC-TV in Menomonie and WHLA-TV in La Crosse in 1973; WHRM-TV in Wausau in 1975 and WLEF in Park Falls in 1977, most taking call signs that originated from their co-owned radio counterparts. Originally, programming origination was split between WHA-TV and WPNE-TV. The stations adopted the on-air name of Wisconsin Public Television in 1986, and by then WHA-TV had become the sole originating station. Transmission and station identification is based out of ECB's Madison facility; all stations still maintain studios at their respective universities, but have generally been deprecated with the evolution of public broadcasting and technology.\n\nFrom 1960 to 2007, WHA-TV/WPT aired same-day tape-delayed coverage of some Wisconsin Badgers football and men's basketball home games, which was produced in association with UW-Madison's athletic department. This ended in 2007 with the Big Ten Conference's new media rights deals (including the new Big Ten Network cable channel). The state network offers tape-delayed broadcasts of Badgers men's and women's hockey, women's basketball and volleyball throughout the year over the secondary Wisconsin Channel.\n\nIn 2009, Wisconsin Public Television collaborated with the American Archive of Public Broadcasting to preserve digitized items in the WPT collection.\n\nOn November 4, 2019, the network was renamed PBS Wisconsin, aligning itself with the new national PBS brand identity unveiled the same day.\n\nThere are six full-power stations in the state network, each located in major cities throughout the state, and all are broadcast on the UHF band. On April 5, 2009, the state network ended analog service for all stations, which map via PSIP to their former analog channel location. All digital facilities and channels in the network except for WLEF were designed for pre- and post-transition use.\n\nThe state network carries four digital subchannels:\n\n\nA translator network also serves portions of the state where over-the-air reception for a full-power station is hindered by area topography (or in the case of Door County, distance from Green Bay), and to fill in holes between full-power stations. All of the listed translators are owned by the WECB, and flash-cut from analog to digital in the first two weeks of November 2008, including adding the subchannel services. Each translator has its virtual channel mapped via PSIP to the channel number of the closest full-power station to the translator.\n\nPBS Wisconsin's public affairs programming is carried by WMVS in Milwaukee, including \"Here and Now\", while WDSE (channel 8) in the Superior–Duluth market and WRPT (channel 31) in Hibbing air the shows in northeast Minnesota and northwest Wisconsin. The two stations also air the state network's live teen issues program \"Teen Connection\" quarterly with PBS Wisconsin, along with political debates and other important events originating from the Capitol such as the State of the State address and biennial budget address produced by the state network; in turn some Milwaukee PBS programming (such as \"Outdoor Wisconsin\") and MPTV-produced debates air on PBS Wisconsin, with programs such as \"Wisconsin Foodie\" in turn airing on WMVS. Some of the state network's tape-delayed sports coverage airs in Milwaukee on WMVT.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262134", "title": "KMXB", "text": "KMXB\n\nKMXB (94.1 FM, Mix 94.1) is a commercial radio station licensed to Henderson, Nevada, and serving the Las Vegas radio market. KMXB airs a hot adult contemporary radio format and is owned by Entercom. The station's studios and offices are located in the unincorporated Clark County community of Spring Valley, while its transmitter is atop Black Mountain in Henderson.\n\nKMXB broadcasts in the HD Radio format. Its HD2 subchannel carries \"Channel Q,\" a radio.com format of LGBTQ talk and EDM dance music.\n\nThe station signed on the air on February 10, 1971. \nKXTZ was a beautiful music station from 1971 until 1994. The call sign spelled out the moniker \"Ecstasy.\" KXTZ beat the market's easy listening music competitor KEER-FM 97.1, forcing that station to switch formats in 1984.\n\nIn 1994, KXTZ switched formats. It changed first to Soft Adult Contemporary music and then to Urban AC.\n\nIn the mid 1990s, KXTZ call letters switched from KXTZ to KJMZ. The station was known as \"94.1 - Jamz\". In 1996, KJMZ became KMXB (\"Mix 94.1\"). The first song played on KMXB was Nivana's \"Come As You Are.\" In 1998, KMXB was acquired by Infinity Broadcasting, which later merged with CBS Radio.\n\nIn 1999, KMXB's morning drive time show, \"Mark and Mercedes in the Morning,\" appeared on an episode of \"Everybody Loves Raymond,\" a popular TV sitcom. \"Mark and Mercedes in the Morning,\" celebrated their 10-year anniversary in 2007.\n\nOn February 2, 2017, CBS Radio announced it would merge with Entercom. The merger was approved on November 9, 2017, and was consummated on the 17th.\n\nIn December 2007, KMXB's \"Mark & Mercedes in the Morning\" scored the first post-rehab interview with Lindsay Lohan in a contest where listeners had to get celebrities to call in for Hannah Montana tickets.\n\nFormer Mix Slogans include;\nYour Music, Your Station, Mix 94.1 Today's Best Music Mix (2003-2009)\nMix 94.1 - Today's Best Music Mix (1998-2003)\nToday's Mix Alternative - Mix 94.1 (1998-1998)\nThe 80's 90's and Today - Mix 94.1 (1996-1998) Your Music, Your Station - Mix 94 1.\n\nPast Talent includes: \n\nMark of Mark and Mercedes\n\nJason Rooney\n\nPaul Sands\n\nTy Sante\n\nKevin Savage Eric Roberts\n\nLeah\n\nKevin Maxwell\n\nNikki\n\nBrandon Schmook\n\nKade\n\nShark\n\nCharese Fruge\n\nBarry Funkhouser\n\nKMXB-HD2 aired an 80s/90s Hits format, branded as \"Rewind 94.1,\" which was previously located on sister station KXTE-HD2.\n\nOn October 11, 2018, KMXB-HD2 switched to an LGBTQ talk/EDM format from Entercom, branded as \"Out Now\". On November 1, 2018, the station rebranded as \"Channel Q\".\n"}
{"id": "2262138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262138", "title": "Samuel Goldwyn Jr.", "text": "Samuel Goldwyn Jr.\n\nSamuel John Goldwyn Jr. (September 7, 1926 – January 9, 2015) was an American film producer.\n\nSamuel Goldwyn Jr. was born in Los Angeles, California, the son of actress Frances Howard (born Frances Howard McLaughlin; 1903–1976) and the pioneer motion picture mogul Samuel Goldwyn (1879–1974). He attended Fountain Valley School in Colorado Springs, Colorado and the University of Virginia.\n\nAfter serving in the United States Army during World War II, he worked as a theatrical producer in London and for Edward R. Murrow at CBS in New York. He then followed in his father's footsteps and founded the motion picture production companies Formosa Productions, The Samuel Goldwyn Company and Samuel Goldwyn Films.\n\nIn 1950 Goldwyn married Jennifer Howard (1925–1993), the daughter of prominent author and screenwriter Sidney Howard. The couple had four children including actor Tony Goldwyn and studio executive John Goldwyn. They divorced in 1968 and he married a second time to Peggy Elliot with whom he had two children. That marriage ended in divorce. At the time of his death he was married to his third wife, Patricia Strawn.\n\nGoldwyn died of congestive heart failure on January 9, 2015, at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles, California, at the age of 88.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262145", "title": "Sour Grapes (1998 film)", "text": "Sour Grapes (1998 film)\n\nSour Grapes is a 1998 American black comedy film written and directed by Larry David and starring Steven Weber, Craig Bierko, Viola Harris, Karen Sillas, Robyn Peterman and Matt Keeslar. It was released on April 17, 1998, by Columbia Pictures. The film's score was composed and conducted by Basil Poledouris.\n\nRichie Maxwell is down to his last quarter at a slot machine in Atlantic City, so he asks cousin Evan for two more coins for one more spin — a spin that wins a $400,000 jackpot.\n\nThe joy of victory is quickly replaced by a fierce disagreement over who deserves what. Richie begins by offering Evan a very small percentage of his winnings. Evan didn't expect anything at first but now he is offended because he provided two-thirds of the money Richie sank into the machine.\n\nA bitter feud develops. Richie, a sneaker designer, hogs all the money and quits his job. Evan, a doctor, is so annoyed that, as a prank, he lets Richie believe he is dying. By the time he reveals the joke, Richie has done something drastic.\n\nThe more rattled Evan gets, the more distracted he becomes at work. And even when the cousins come to a tentative truce, everything backfires on them in events that involve girlfriends, relatives and even the homeless.\n\nIn the end, Ritchie loses all his money and winds up right back where he started. Despondent, he goes home to perform oral sex on himself—a pastime of his.\n\n\nThe film gained poor reviews from critics. The film made it on the 2000 list of Roger Ebert's most hated films. In his review, he remarked \"I can't easily remember a film I've enjoyed less.\" The film has a 21% rating on Rotten Tomatoes.\n\nLarry David himself has expressed regrets over the film. A poster for the film was put up on the set of David's office for the filming of \"Curb Your Enthusiasm's\" pilot episode. David had the poster promptly removed because he got \"sick of looking at it\" after one show. In a later episode, David's character tells his wife to stop lending people the film, and says he doesn't believe a friend who claimed to have enjoyed the movie, stating she was just trying to be polite.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262147", "title": "William Gordon Cameron", "text": "William Gordon Cameron\n\nGeneral Sir William Gordon Cameron (Chinese translated Name: 金馬倫; 16 October 1827 – 2 March 1913) was a British soldier and colonial administrator.\n\nWilliam Gordon Cameron was commissioned into the 42nd (Royal Highland) Regiment of Foot in 1844. He transferred to the Grenadier Guards in 1847. In 1854 he was deployed to the Crimean War and took part in the Battle of Alma. He was appointed Commanding Officer of 3rd Regiment of the British German Legion in 1855.\n\nIn 1867 he became Commanding Officer of 1st Battalion 4th King's Own Royal Regiment and led the capture of Magdala during the British Expedition to Abyssinia.\n\nIn 1875, he became commander of a brigade at Gibraltar and in 1875 of a brigade at Aldershot. In April 1881 he was appointed General Officer Commanding Northern District. Then in 1884 he became Commander of British Troops in China, Hong Kong and the Straits Settlements. He governed Hong Kong in a period between April 1887 to October 1887.\n\nHe was appointed Honorary Colonel of the 5th (West Middlesex) Middlesex Rifle Volunteer Corps in 1880.\n\nFrom January 1891 to December 1892 and then again in May to July 1894 he was Administrator of the Cape Colony. He retired in 1895.\n\nGeneral Sir William Gordon Cameron was the son of Lieutenant-Colonel William Gordon Cameron J.P. (1790-1856) and his wife Caroline née Edwards (1801-1872), and the elder brother of Colonel Aylmer Cameron VC, who won the Victoria Cross in 1858 during the Indian Mutiny.\n\nHe married Helen Colebrooke Mary, daughter of General Sir John Hunter Littler, GCB on the 20 January 1857 in the Church of the Holy Trinity, Buckfastleigh, Devon, England.\n\nSeveral places in Hong Kong were named after Cameron: Cameron Road and Cameron Lane in Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon, as well as Mount Cameron and Mount Cameron Road.\n"}
{"id": "2262149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262149", "title": "Stephen F. Hayes", "text": "Stephen F. Hayes\n\nStephen Forester Hayes is an American journalist and author. In October 2019 Hayes founded the online opinion and news publication \"The Dispatch.\" Previously, he was a senior writer for \"National Journal and\" Editor-in-chief of \"The Weekly Standard.\" He was a staunch proponent of the Iraq War and an influential figure in promoting the false claim that the Saddam Hussein regime and Al Qaeda had an operational relationship. \n\nStephen F. Hayes was born in Wauwatosa, Wisconsin. He graduated from DePauw University, where he was a member of the Sigma Chi fraternity. He went on to study journalism at the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism.\n\nHayes is a journalist. His work has appeared in the \"New York Post\", \"Washington Times\", Salon.com, \"National Review\", and \"Reason\". He has been a commentator on CNN, \"The McLaughlin Group\", Fox News Channel, MSNBC, CNBC, and C-SPAN.\n\nHe became editor-in-chief of \"The Weekly Standard\" in 2016. On December 14, 2018, Clarity Media Group announced that it would cease publication of the magazine after 23 years. The closure of \"The Weekly Standard\" was so Clarity Media's other magazine, the \"Washington Examiner\", could absorb the \"Standard\"s subscribers. \n\nPrior to the proposed 2003 invasion of Iraq, Stephen Hayes spoke to BBC News, arguing for American intervention: \"I think liberating Iraq will send a strong message to Iran, North Korea, other hostile regimes not only because it will show that we will - the United States will not tolerate bullies, especially bullies with weapons of mass destruction, but it will also I think hopefully show what a free liberated people, what a free liberated Iraqi people can do for themselves and it will be - again it will be a fabulous model, not only for the Middle East but for places throughout the world that haven't had these kinds of freedoms in the past or haven't had them realised.\"\n\nIn 2004, Gideon Rose, editor of \"Foreign Affairs\", described Hayes as \"most indefatigable proponent of the Iraq-Al Qaeda link outside the [George W. Bush] administration.\" In 2008, Spencer Ackerman characterized Hayes as one of the most effective amplifiers of the Bush administration's Iraq War claims about an Iraq-Al Qaeda link. Inquiries into the Hussein-Al Qaeda link have concluded that there was no link. In 2004, the 9/11 Commission concluded there were \"no collaborative operational ties.\"\n\nHis 2004 book, \"The Connection: How al Qaeda's Collaboration with Saddam Hussein has Endangered America\" claimed to prove an operational relationship between Saddam Hussein's Iraq and al-Qaeda. His major source was a leaked memo from Undersecretary of Defense for Policy Douglas J. Feith to the U.S. Congress on 27 October 2003; Feith had been asked by Deputy Defense Secretary Paul Wolfowitz to tie Hussein to Al Qaeda. Hayes covered the contents of this memo in a 2003 \"Weekly Standard\" article, where he concluded \"there can no longer be any serious argument about whether Saddam Hussein's Iraq worked with Osama bin Laden and al Qaeda to plot against Americans.\" Other intelligence officials disputed the accuracy of the contents in Feith's memo, including W. Patrick Lang who was a former head of the Middle East section of the DIA and described the \"Weekly Standard\" article as \"a listing of a mass of unconfirmed reports, many of which themselves indicate that the two groups continued to try to establish some sort of relationship. If they had such a productive relationship, why did they have to keep trying?\" Assessments by the Pentagon and the CIA disavowed the contents of Feith's memo.\n\nHayes resides in Davidsonville, Maryland with his wife and four children.\n\nIn September 2014, Hayes' name was added to the United States Department of Homeland Security's Terrorist Watchlist after receiving additional scrutiny on several airline flights.\nHe has since been cleared and is currently not on the terrorist watch list.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262154", "title": "Doppler broadening", "text": "Doppler broadening\n\nIn atomic physics, Doppler broadening is the broadening of spectral lines due to the Doppler effect caused by a distribution of velocities of atoms or molecules. Different velocities of the emitting particles result in different Doppler shifts, the cumulative effect of which is the line broadening.\nThis resulting line profile is known as a Doppler profile. A particular case is the thermal Doppler broadening due to the thermal motion of the particles. Then, the broadening depends only on the frequency of the spectral line, the mass of the emitting particles, and their temperature, and therefore can be used for inferring the temperature of an emitting body.\n\nSaturated absorption spectroscopy, also known as Doppler-free spectroscopy, can be used to find the true frequency of an atomic transition without cooling a sample down to temperatures at which the Doppler broadening is minimal.\n\nWhen thermal motion causes a particle to move towards the observer, the emitted radiation will be shifted to a higher frequency. Likewise, when the emitter moves away, the frequency will be lowered. For non-relativistic thermal velocities, the Doppler shift in frequency will be:\n\nwhere formula_2 is the observed frequency, formula_3 is the rest frequency, formula_4 is the velocity of the emitter towards the observer, and formula_5 is the speed of light.\n\nSince there is a distribution of speeds both toward and away from the observer in any volume element of the radiating body, the net effect will be to broaden the observed line. If formula_6 is the fraction of particles with velocity component formula_4 to formula_8 along a line of sight, then the corresponding distribution of the frequencies is\n\nwhere formula_10 is the velocity towards the observer corresponding to the shift of the rest frequency formula_3 to formula_2. Therefore,\n\nWe can also express the broadening in terms of the wavelength formula_13. Recalling that in the non-relativistic limit formula_14, we obtain\n\nIn the case of the thermal Doppler broadening, the velocity distribution is given by the Maxwell distribution\n\nwhere formula_16 is the mass of the emitting particle, formula_17 is the temperature, and formula_18 is the Boltzmann constant. \n\nThen\n\nWe can simplify this expression as\n\nwhich we immediately recognize as a Gaussian profile with the standard deviation\n\nand full width at half maximum (FWHM)\n\nf_0.</math>\n\nIn astronomy and plasma physics, the thermal Doppler broadening is one of the explanations for the broadening of spectral lines, and as such gives an indication for the temperature of observed material. Other causes of velocity distributions may exist, though, for example, due to turbulent motion. For a fully developed turbulence, the resulting line profile is generally very difficult to distinguish from the thermal one.\nAnother cause could be a large range of \"macroscopic\" velocities resulting, e.g., from the receding and approaching portions of a rapidly spinning accretion disk. Finally, there are many other factors that can also broaden the lines. For example, a sufficiently high particle number density may lead to significant Stark broadening.\n\nDoppler broadening can also be used to determine the velocity distribution of a gas given its absorption spectrum. In particular, this has been used to determine the velocity distribution of interstellar gas clouds.\n\nDoppler broadening, the physical phenomenon driving the Fuel temperature coefficient of reactivity also been used as a design consideration in high-temperature nuclear reactors. In principle, as the reactor fuel heats up, the neutron absorption spectrum will broaden due to the relative thermal motion of the fuel nuclei with respect to the neutrons. Given the shape of the neutron absorption spectrum, this has the result of reducing neutron absorption cross section, reducing the likelihood of absorption and fission. The end result is that reactors designed to take advantage of Doppler broadening will decrease their reactivity as temperature increases, creating a passive safety measure. This tends to be more relevant to gas-cooled reactors, as other mechanisms are dominant in water cooled reactors.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262166", "title": "Francisco, North Carolina", "text": "Francisco, North Carolina\n\nFrancisco ( ) is an unincorporated community in northern Stokes County in the U.S. state of North Carolina, approximately thirteen miles northwest of the county seat, Danbury, on North Carolina State Highway 89, and less than three miles from the North Carolina/Virginia border.\n\nThe community is located adjacent to the Dan River and includes a volunteer fire station, Francisco Elementary School, a trash disposal and recycling site, a Presbyterian church, and a Ruritan meeting house/community building. At one time, Francisco had its own post-office address. At its closing in the 1960s, Francisco addresses were consolidated with another near by post-office address and became Rural Route 2, Westfield, NC.\n\nThe name \"Francisco\" has its origin from the Francis family, which has long inhabited the community. Ancestors of Joseph Francis owned and operated a general store, in the area where the community is now located, called the Francis Company; Francis Co. for short. The Francis Co. received so many shipments from nearby towns for the local farmers that eventually it became its own post-office and address - Francisco, NC. However, some people argue that the community got its name from the combination of Francis and the Collins families' last names,(Francis)-(Co)llins.\n\nA list of the families that have long resided in Francisco include: Francis, Jessup, George, Collins, Shelton, Dunkley, Nunn, Simmons, Hooker, Moir, Faries, Martin, Palmer, Pack & Wright.\n\nThe R. W. George Mill was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1997.\n"}
{"id": "2262179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262179", "title": "Stitchbird", "text": "Stitchbird\n\nThe stitchbird or hihi (\"Notiomystis cincta\") is a honeyeater-like bird endemic to the North Island and adjacent offshore islands of New Zealand. Its evolutionary relationships have long puzzled ornithologists, but it is now classed as the only member of its own family, the Notiomystidae. It became rare, being extirpated everywhere except Little Barrier Island, but has been reintroduced to two other island sanctuaries and four locations on the North Island mainland.\n\nThe stitchbird was originally described as a member of the primarily Australian and New Guinean honeyeater family Meliphagidae. It had remained classified as such until recently. Genetic analysis shows that it is not closely related to the honeyeaters and their allies and that its closest living relatives are within the endemic New Zealand Callaeidae. In 2007 a new passerine family was erected to contain the stitchbird, the Notiomystidae.\n\nThe stitchbird is a small honeyeater-like bird. Males have a dark velvety cap and short white ear-tufts, which can be raised somewhat away from the head. A yellow band across the chest separates the black head from the rest of the body, which is grey. Females and juveniles are duller than males, lacking the black head and yellow chest band. The bill is rather thin and somewhat curved, and the tongue is long with a brush at the end for collecting nectar. Thin whiskers project out and slightly forward from the base of the bill.\n\nStitchbirds are very active and call frequently. Their most common call, a \"tzit tzit\" sound, is believed to be the source of their common name, as Buller noted that it \"has a fanciful resemblance to the word \"stitch\"\". They also have a high-pitched whistle and an alarm call which is a nasal \"pek\" like a bellbird. Males give a piercing three-note whistle (often heard in spring) and a variety of other calls not given by the female.\nResearch has suggested that they face interspecific competition from the tui and New Zealand bellbird, and will feed from lower-quality food sources when these species are present. The stitchbird rarely lands on the ground and seldom visits flowers on the large canopy trees favoured by the tui and bellbird (this may simply be because of the competition from the more aggressive, larger birds).\n\nTheir main food is nectar, but the stitchbird's diet covers over twenty species of native flowers and thirty species of fruit and many species of introduced plants. Important natural nectar sources are haekaro, matata, puriri, rata and toropapa. Preferred fruits include \"Coprosma\" species, five finger, pate, tree fuchsia and raukawa.\n\nThe stitchbird also supplements its diet with small insects.\n\nThe stitchbird nests in holes high up in old trees. They are the only bird species that mates face to face, in comparison to the more conventional copulation style for birds where the male mounts the female's back.\nThe stitchbird was relatively common early in the European colonisation of New Zealand, and began to decline relatively quickly afterwards, being extinct on the mainland and many offshore islands by 1885. The last sighting on the mainland was in the Tararua Range in the 1880s. The exact cause of the decline is unknown, but is thought to be pressure from introduced species, especially black rats, and introduced avian diseases. Only a small population on Little Barrier Island survived. Starting in the 1980s the New Zealand Wildlife Service (now Department of Conservation) translocated numbers of individuals from Hauturu to other island sanctuaries to create separate populations. These islands were part of New Zealand's network of offshore reserves which have been cleared of introduced species and which protect other rare species including the kakapo and takahe.\n\nThe world population is unknown; estimates for the size of the remnant population on Hauturu (Little Barrier Island) range from 600 and 6000 adult birds. There are also translocated populations on Tiritiri Matangi Island, Kapiti Island, Zealandia, Maungatautari, Bushy Park and Lake Rotokare. Attempts to establish populations on Hen Island, Cuvier Island and Mokoia Island and the Waitākere Ranges failed. There is also a captive population at Mount Bruce. The Tiritiri Matangi population is growing slowly but more than half the chicks that hatch there die of starvation due to the lack of mature forest, most of the island having been revegetated only since 1984–1994. Only the Little Barrier Island population is thought to be stable as of 2007. This species is classified as Vulnerable (D2) by the IUCN because of its very small range and population.\n\nIn 2005, 60 stitchbirds were released into Zealandia (wildlife sanctuary) near Wellington and in October that year, three stitchbird chicks hatched there, the first time for more than 120 years that a stitchbird chick had been born on mainland New Zealand. The hatchings were described as a significant conservation milestone by sanctuary staff, and in early 2019 Zealandia banded their 1000th hihi chick although the adult population is believed to remain at about 100 birds.\n\nIn (local) autumn 2007, 59 adult birds from the Tiritiri Matangi population were released in Cascade Kauri Park, in the Waitākere Ranges near Auckland and by the end of the year the first chicks had fledged there.\n\nIn 2017, 40 birds were released into the Lake Rotokare Scenic Reserve in Taranaki, with 17 chicks raised. A further 30 were released in 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262183", "title": "Light Tank Mk VI", "text": "Light Tank Mk VI\n\nThe Tank, Light, Mk VI was a British light tank, produced by Vickers-Armstrongs in the late 1930s, which saw service during the Second World War.\n\nThe Tank, Light, Mk VI was the sixth in the line of light tanks built by Vickers-Armstrongs for the British Army during the interwar period. The company had achieved a degree of standardization with their previous five models, and the Mark VI was identical in all but a few respects. The turret, which had been expanded in the Mk V to allow a three-man crew to operate the tank, was further expanded to give room in its rear for a wireless set. The weight of the tank was increased to , which although heavier than previous models actually improved its handling characteristics, and an engine was added to the model to increase its maximum speed to . It had the Horstmann coil-spring suspension system, which was found to be durable and reliable, although the fact that the tank was short in relation to its width and that it pitched violently on rough ground made accurate gunnery whilst moving exceptionally difficult. The Mk VI possessed a crew of three consisting of a driver, gunner and commander, who also doubled as the radio operator, between and of armour, which could resist rifle and machine gun bullets, and its armament consisted of one water-cooled .303 inch and one .50 inch Vickers machine gun.\n\nProduction of the Mk VI began in 1936 and ended in 1940 with 1,682 Mark VI tanks having been built. Many of those produced were actually variants designed to solve problems found with the original design. The Mk VIA had a return roller removed from the top of the leading bogey and attached to the hull sides instead, and also possessed a faceted cupola. The Mk VIB was mechanically identical to the Mk VIA but with a few minor differences to make production simpler, including a one-piece armoured louvre over the radiator instead of a two-piece louvre, and a plain circular cupola instead of the faceted type. The Mk VIC, which was the last in the MK VI series, had the commander's cupola removed and had wider bogies and three carburettors to improve engine performance; it was also more powerfully armed than the other models, replacing the .303 and .50 Vickers machine guns with co-axial and Besa machine guns. A small number of specialized variations were also built based on the Mk VI chassis. The Tank, Light, AA Mk I was built in the aftermath of the Battle of France and was intended to act as a counter-measure against attacks by German aircraft. It featured a power-operated turret fitted with four 7.92 mm Besa machine guns; a Mk II was produced which was mechanically similar but had improvements, such as better quality sights for the machine guns and a larger turret for easier access. A variant on the Mk VIB was produced for service with the British Indian Army, in which the commander's cupola was removed and replaced with a hatch in the turret roof.\n\nWhen the Mk VI was first produced in 1936, the Imperial General Staff considered the tank to be superior to any light tank produced by other nations, and well suited to the dual roles of reconnaissance and colonial warfare. Like many of its predecessors, the Mark VI was used by the British Army to perform imperial policing duties in British India and other colonies in the British Empire, a role for which it and the other Vickers-Armstrongs light tanks were found to be well suited. When the British government began its rearmament process in 1937, the Mk VI was the only tank with which the War Office was ready to proceed with manufacturing; the development of a medium tank for the Army had hit severe problems after the cancellation of the proposed \"Sixteen Tonner\" medium tank in 1932 due to the costs involved, and cheaper models only existed as prototypes with a number of mechanical problems. As a result of this, when the Second World War began in September 1939, the vast majority of the tanks available to the British Army were Mk VIs; there were 1,002 Mk VI Light Tanks, 79 Mk I (A9) and Mk II (A10) Cruiser Tanks and 67 Mk I (Matilda Mk1) Infantry Tanks. Of these tanks, only 196 light tanks and 50 Infantry Tanks were in use by operational units of the army.\n\nWhen the Battle of France began in May 1940, the majority of the tanks possessed by the British Expeditionary Force were Mark VI variants; the seven Royal Armoured Corps divisional cavalry regiments, the principal armoured formations of the BEF, were each equipped with 28 Mk VIs. The 1st Armoured Division, elements of which landed in France in April, was equipped with 257 tanks, of which a large number were Mk VIB and Mk VICs. The 3rd Royal Tank Regiment, which formed part of the division's 3rd Armoured Brigade, possessed by this time 21 Mark VI light tanks. \n\nThe British Army lost 331 Mark VI light tanks in the Battle of France of 1940. Several of these vehicles were captured by the Wehrmacht, redesignated as \"Leichter Panzerkampfwagen Mk. IV 734(e)\" and used for training purposes until the fall of 1942. Then, in November the decision was made to develop a self-propelled gun on the basis of the captured Mk IVs. They carried a 105 or 150 mm field howitzer and were designated \"G.Pz. Mk. VI (e)\". All these SPGs were subsequently lost during the defense of France in the summer and fall of 1944. \n\nThe Mk VIB was also used in the North African campaign against the Italians late in 1940 with the 7th Armoured Division. At this time, the British had 200 light tanks (presumably the Mk VIB) along with 75 cruiser tanks (A9, A10, A13) and 45 Matilda IIs. An attack by the 3rd Hussars at Buq Buq on 12 December 1940 resulted in its tanks getting bogged down in salt pans and severely mauled. In ten minutes, 13 tanks were destroyed, ten officers and men killed - including the CO - and 13 wounded. The 7th Armoured Division had 100 tanks left on 3 January 1941; this increased to 120 tanks on 21 January, at which time they were used in flanking far into the rear and gathering up scattered Italian troops, sometimes joining or leaving the main attacks to the Cruiser and Matilda II tanks. During an engagement at Mechili on 24 January, six Mk VIs were destroyed by newly arrived superior Italian Fiat M13/40s for no loss, forcing a retreat until Cruiser tanks arrived. The 2nd RTR continued to battle the Italians with light tanks as late as 6 February 1941.\n\nBeing widely used by the British Army, the tank participated in several other important battles. The Mk VIB made up a significant amount of the tanks sent over to the Battle of Greece in 1941, mostly with the 4th Hussars. Ten Mk VIB tanks fought with the 3rd The King's Own Hussars during the Battle of Crete. The same armoured unit had previously embarked three MK VIB tanks for the Norwegian Campaign, but they were lost in transit to a German aircraft attack. The tanks also saw limited service against the Japanese in Malaya.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262188", "title": "Murray Hamilton", "text": "Murray Hamilton\n\nMurray Hamilton (March 24, 1923 – September 1, 1986) was an American stage, screen, and television character actor who appeared in such films as \"Anatomy of a Murder\", \"The Hustler\", \"The Graduate\", \"The Amityville Horror\" and \"Jaws\".\n\nBorn in Washington, North Carolina, Hamilton displayed an early interest in performing during his days at Washington High School just before America's entry into World War II. Bad hearing kept him from enlisting, so he moved to New York City as a 19-year-old to find a career on stage.\n\nIn an early role, he performed on stage with Henry Fonda in the classic wartime story \"Mister Roberts\" as a replacement for David Wayne, playing Ensign Pulver. In 1960, he was onstage again with Fonda in \"Critic's Choice\"; Howard Taubman of \"The New York Times\" called him \"properly obnoxious as the director\". Hamilton was teamed once more with Fonda in 1968 for the drama film \"The Boston Strangler\".\n\nHis best known performance is as Larry Vaughn, the obdurate mayor of Amity, in the Steven Spielberg thriller \"Jaws\" (1975). Hamilton reprised the role in the sequel, \"Jaws 2\" in 1978. He was approached to reprise his role in \"\", but died in 1986 aged 63 . Other notable big-screen appearances include the critically acclaimed 1959 film \"Anatomy of a Murder\" with James Stewart, in which he played the bartender Al Pacquette, who gives testimony in the murder of Barney Quill. He worked again with Stewart in \"The Spirit of St. Louis\" (1957) and \"The FBI Story\" (1959).\n\nThe actor made dozens of TV guest appearances. In 1955, Hamilton guest-starred on the NBC legal drama \"Justice\", based on case files of the Legal Aid Society of New York. Hamilton appeared in the \"Perry Mason\" episode \"The Case of the Deadly Double\" (air date March 1, 1958) as the shadowy boyfriend of a woman with a split personality whose brother is Mason's client. In 1959, he appeared in a few episodes of the crime drama \"The Untouchables\", as well as co-starring in the second episode of Rod Serling's television series \"The Twilight Zone\", \"One for the Angels\", playing Mr. Death opposite Ed Wynn. Also, Hamilton portrayed Calhoun, on (S4E9) of Gunsmoke, which aired in April, 1959. His character is swindled in a land deal along with other members of a wagon train & his wife tries to leave Calhoun with the swindler.\n\nIn the 1959-60 television season, Hamilton also co-starred with William Demarest, Jeanne Bal, and Stubby Kaye in the NBC sitcom \"Love and Marriage\". He played attorney Steve Baker, who resides in an apartment with his wife (played by Bal), two daughters and a father-in-law (portrayed by Demarest). He soon appeared as a guest star on another sitcom, \"The Real McCoys\", starring Walter Brennan, on ABC. In 1961, he appeared in another science fiction series, \"'Way Out\", hosted by Roald Dahl, with fellow guest stars Doris Roberts and Martin Huston. In 1986, he played Curtis \"Big Daddy\" Hollingsworth, Blanche Devereaux's father, in a first-season episode of \"The Golden Girls\".\n\nHamilton complained in a newspaper article about being typecast, stating \"After I was first cast as a heavy on \"The Untouchables\", I couldn't ever persuade them [producers] that I could also do something else.\" While comic roles were rare for Hamilton during his Hollywood career, he had one opposite Andy Griffith in the 1958 military comedy \"No Time for Sergeants\", as well as an appearance in Steven Spielberg's raucous comedy \"1941\", released in 1979. He also appeared in a comedic guest spot on \" Mama's Family \" in the second-season episode, \"Mama Cries Uncle\", as Uncle Roy. He was more often cast in dramatic works, such as the stark science-fiction drama \"Seconds\" (1966), which starred Rock Hudson. In two of his most distinctive performances, Hamilton appeared with Paul Newman in \"The Hustler\" (1961), playing Findley, a wealthy billiards player who gambles for high stakes, and with Dustin Hoffman in \"The Graduate\" (1967) as Mr. Robinson, husband of the seductress Mrs. Robinson. In 1975, Hamilton appeared again with Newman in \"The Drowning Pool\". He also worked with Robert Redford in a pair of films, \"The Way We Were\" (1973) and \"Brubaker\" (1980). In early 1982 he appeared as a judge presiding over an impromptu court case on an episode of \"Bret Maverick\".\n\nFor many years both before and during his film career, Hamilton was a prominent dramatic stage actor, earning a Tony Award nomination for his role in the 1965 production of \"Absence of a Cello\". \"New York Times\" theater critic Brooks Atkinson praised his work in the play \"Stockade\", which was based on a part of the James Jones novel \"From Here to Eternity\": \"Murray Hamilton is an ideal Prewitt. Modest in manner, pleasant of voice, he has a steel-like spirit that brings Prewitt honestly to life.\" When the actor was suffering from cancer and found film roles harder to come by, his old co-star George C. Scott helped out by getting him a part in the made-for-television movie \"The Last Days of Patton\" (1986).\n\nHamilton died of lung cancer at age 63, and is interred at Oakdale Cemetery in his native Washington, North Carolina. He and his wife, Terri DeMarco Hamilton (of The DeMarco Sisters fame), had a son, David.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262192", "title": "KXPT", "text": "KXPT\n\nKXPT (97.1 MHz) is a commercial FM radio station located in Las Vegas, Nevada. The station is owned by Lotus Communications and it airs a classic rock music format branded as \"97.1 The Point.\" \n\nKXPT's studios and offices are in the unincorporated community of Spring Valley in Clark County and its transmitter is on Potosi Mountain southwest of the Las Vegas Valley.\n\nOn November 29, 1961, the station first signed on as KORK-FM. At first it simulcast its AM counterpart, 1340 KORK. But by the 1970s, under Donrey Media, it had switched to a beautiful music format, playing mostly instrumental versions of popular songs. At the time, it could only be heard in and around Las Vegas, broadcasting from a tower only 195 feet in height above average terrain. But by the early 1980s, it got a boost in power to 50,000 watts and an increase in antenna height to 1,950 feet.\n\nIn 1983, the station changed its call letters to KEER. A year later in 1984, it switched formats to Top 40 as KYRK or \"Y-97.\" In the late 1980s, the slogan changed to \"POWER 97\". Some of the KYRK DJs included Pat Garret, Anthony Miles, Shaun St John, \"Wild Child\" Johnny West, Don \"Action\" Jackson, Harmon and Holiday, Dr. Jerry Thomas, Greg Spin, James and The J Man. The station was known for the \"Tookie-Tookie Bird\" which was the cue to call in and win prizes. The bird appeared at local events, and was mocked on an episode of \"Cheap Seats\" which featured the mascot appearing at a 1986 International Roller Derby event televised by ESPN at the Showboat Hotel & Casino.\n\nIn 1993, Lotus Broadcasting purchased the station and switched call letters to KXPT, \"The Point.\" For the first four and a half years, The Point aired an adult album alternative (AAA) format, playing new artists who went onto big careers, including Sheryl Crow, the Dave Matthews Band, Blues Traveler, Jewel and others. Original Point DJs included Chris Foxx, Mike Fox, Rob Landry and JD, Byrd (now with WDRV Chicago), Lark Williams, Dusty Street, Randy Morrison and Mike O'Brian (now at rival 96.3 KKLZ). In 1997 the station shifted to a Classic Hits format and in 2005 it moved to a Classic Rock format. In 2007 KXPT became the only Classic Rock station in the Las Vegas Metro as KKLZ changed to a Classic Hits format.\n\nCurrent DJs on the station include \"Foxx & Mackenzie\" (Chris Foxx and Steph Mackenzie along with Ken Johnson), Kim Kelly (formerly of KKLZ), Lorrin Bond, Gretchen and Freddie Woods. KXPT is unusual for a classic rock station, in that all of its weekday shows are either hosted or co-hosted by women. Mike Culotta, formerly of 92.3 KOMP (another Lotus station) was a DJ on the station until his death in December 2010 (though he didn't appear on the air in the months prior to his passing). On Sunday nights, \"Nights with Alice Cooper\" is broadcast. \n\nThe signal was once rebroadcast on a translator at 98.9 in Henderson with the call sign K257VU, but this translator now rebroadcasts the sports radio format of 1100 KWWN.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262202", "title": "Second German Bundestag", "text": "Second German Bundestag\n\n1953-1957\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262210", "title": "Go North East", "text": "Go North East\n\nGo North East is the largest operator of bus services in the North East of England, operating services across Tyne and Wear, County Durham, Northumberland and Teesside. The company also operates services in the East Riding of Yorkshire, North Yorkshire and York, under the \"East Yorkshire\" brand.\n\nThe company was previously known as the Northern General Transport Company, and Go-Ahead Northern. It was the foundation of today's Go-Ahead Group.\n\nIn February 1987, as part of the privatisation of the National Bus Company, a management buyout led by Martin Ballinger and Chris Moyes saw the purchase of the Northern General Transport Company. It was the first company of what is now the Go-Ahead Group.\n\nEarly expansion saw the acquisition of certain smaller competing bus operators in North East England, including Gypsy Queen in 1989, and Low Fell Coaches in June 1992. Go-Ahead Northern also became a National Express contractor, operating services to the Midlands, North East, North West and South West of England.\n\nUntil the early 2000s, Go North East operated local services in the Darlington. The company also operated from a depot in Bishop Auckland, which closed in 2006, with the majority of local services (but no vehicles) transferred to Arriva North East.\n\nIn June 2018, East Yorkshire Motor Services was acquired by Go-Ahead, bringing an end to 30 years of family ownership. Now re-branded as \"East Yorkshire\", it will continue to run as a standalone company within Go North East.\n\nA large part of the Go North East fleet is made up of vehicles manufactured by Optare, Volvo and Wrightbus. As of March 2020, the fleet consists of 702 buses and coaches. \n\nOperations were previously split between a \"North\" and \"South\" division. However, all operations are now under one management structure.\n\nThe former \"North\" division operated services in Gateshead, North Tyneside, West Durham, Northumberland and the Tyne Valley. \n\nThe former \"South\" division operated services in Sunderland, County Durham and South Tyneside, as well as National Express coach services. \n\nAs of March 2020, Go North East operate from nine bus depots:\n\n\nGo North East introduced route branding in 2006 – a practice which involves giving each service, or group of services, a recognisable identity, colour scheme and logo. Route branding has led to Go North East adopting a multi-coloured fleet. Examples of Go North East's route branding include \"Angel\", \"Green Arrow\", \"QuayLink\", \"Tynedale Links\" and \"X-Lines\".\n\nFor many years, Go North East's fleet livery consisted of red, light blue and yellow. Following this, vehicles without route branding were painted in a red base, carrying \"Northern\" logos. By the end of 2013, the \"Northern\" logos began to be replaced, with the company opting to instead use the Go North East corporate logo. \n\nIn 2016, a new corporate livery was introduced, with vehicles painted red at the front, and blue at the back, separated by a white strip, with a tagline and website featuring above the windows (below the lower deck windows on double-deck vehicles).\n\nThis proved to be short-lived, and in 2019, a new-style corporate livery has been introduced. This features a lighter shade of blue at the rear, with the curved white separation strip being replaced with a double white and yellow line.\n\nCoaches operating services under contract to National Express are painted in the client's (mostly white) livery, featuring company's blue and red logo.\n\nA series of Go North East's private hire coaches are currently being repainted in to retro-inspired heritage liveries, as part of the \"Northern Coaching\" operation.<br>\n\n"}
{"id": "2262213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262213", "title": "Pyapon", "text": "Pyapon\n\nPyapon (; Mon: , ) is a town and seat of Pyapon District in the Ayeyarwady Division of Myanmar, along the Pyapon River, a tributary of the Ayeyarwady River. It is located about 15 km inland from the Andaman Sea, about 75 miles south of the previous capital, Yangon. It has a population of approximately 300,000 in 2006 . It serves as a center for collecting rice from the surrounding agricultural areas, and is home to a diesel-run power plant, using equipment by the German firm Siemens.\n"}
{"id": "2262215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262215", "title": "Scott Tinley", "text": "Scott Tinley\n\nScott Tinley (born October 25, 1956) is a former professional triathlete and two-time winner of the Hawaii Ironman endurance race. In the 1980s Tinley dominated the sport of triathlon together with Mark Allen, Dave Scott and Scott Molina. Tinley was inducted into the Ironman Hall of Fame in 1996.\n\nNow retired, Tinley is a writer, teacher, and ocean lifeguard. His latest book, In the Wake of Our Past, is a character-driven, work of historical fiction that focuses on a returning Vietnam War vet. His previous book, \"Racing the Sunset\", a journey through athlete retirement and the larger issues of life transition and change, is the result of one of the most thorough research projects ever attempted on retiring athletes.\n\nTinley taught English and \"Sport and Society\" at San Diego State University, and currently teaches \"Sports, Games, and Culture\" at San Diego State University. This 7th generation Southern Californian currently (2020) resides in Del Mar, California with his wife and has two grown children.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262217", "title": "Nizhyn", "text": "Nizhyn\n\nNizhyn (, ; ; ) is a city located in Chernihiv Oblast (province) of northern Ukraine, along the Oster River, north-east of the nation's capital, Kiev. It is the administrative center of Nizhyn Raion, though the city itself is incorporated as a city of oblast significance and does not belong to the raion. Once it was a major city of the Chernigov Governorate.\n\nThe earliest known references to the location go back to 1147, when it was briefly mentioned as Unenezh.\n\nIn the times of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, Nizhyn was granted Magdeburg rights (1625) as a self-governing town. In 1663 Nizhyn was the place of the Black Council of Ukrainian Cossacks, which elected Bryukhovetsky as the new Hetman of the Zaporizhian Host thus conditionally dividing Ukraine (Cossack Hetmanate) into left-bank Ukraine and right-bank Ukraine. It was also the seat of a major Cossack regiment (until 1782).\n\nNizhyn was once a major center of Hasidic Judaism and is the site of the \"Ohel\" (tomb) of the Hasidic master, Rabbi Dovber Schneuri of Chabad-Lubavitch. The city also housed the thriving Greek community, which enjoyed a number of privileges granted by Bohdan Khmelnytsky.\n\nIn the 19th century Nizhyn became an \"uyezd\" capital of the Chernigov Governorate and the biggest city in the \"guberniya\". In 1805, the Bezborodko Lyceum was established there (today — Nizhyn Gogol State University); its graduates include Nikolai Gogol whose statue graces one of city streets as well as Yevhen Hrebinka among other graduates. Nizhyn has also long been noted for its famous cucumbers.\n\nDuring World War II, Nizhyn was occupied by the German Army from 13 September 1941 to 15 September 1943.\n\nJews first settled in Nizhyn at the beginning of the 19th century after the partition of Poland. The town grew to become a center for the Habad Hasidim of Ukraine. By 1847, 1,299 Jews had registered as residents. In 1897, 24% of the population, or 7,361 residents, were Jewish.\n\nA wave of pogroms severely affected the Jewish population in 1881 and 1905. One group of emigrants settled in Philadelphia and founded the Neziner Congregation in 1896.\n\nDuring their retreat from the Germans in the spring of 1918, the Red Army carried out additional pogroms. During World War II, the region was occupied by Germany, who exterminated all Jews in the area. Only those who escaped survived.\n\nIn 1959, 1,400 Jews lived in Nizhyn, about 3% of the town's population. In 2005, Nizhyn population reached 80,000. Only about 300 Jewish families lived in the city.\n\nIn July 1969 two Tupolev Tu-22 aircraft from the nearby air base collided in mid-air. The crew ejected and the plane flew on unpiloted for 52 minutes, threatening the city of Nizhyn before crashing 0.5 km from the city's railway station.\n\nThe city of Nizhyn is one of the ancient cities of Ukraine. The architectural complex of the city forms an expressive ensemble of an ancient trade city. The experts' estimates distinguish more than 300 ancient buildings, where 70 are of a great cultural and historical value. The expressive 200 years ensemble of Post Station (the only one preserved in Ukraine) deserves special mention. Nizhyn is a city of students (each fifth inhabitant of Nizhyn is a student). The following educational establishments operate in Nizhyn – State University named after Gogol; Agro-technical College, faculty of Kremenchyk Institute of Economy and New Technologies, College of Culture and Arts named after Zankovetska, Medical College, Nizhyn Professional Lyceum of Services, Nizhyn Agrarian Lyceum, vocational college, Lyceum at the University. There are four club institutions, the Drama Theater named after Kotsyubinskiy, the Choreographic school and park landscapes in the city.\n\nThe city boasts 38 libraries with the total fund of 17,365 thousand books, which caters for 44,429 readers, more than a dozen of museums, including Nizhyn Regional museum with the following sections: art, history, Nizhyn Post Station, with about 31 thousand of exhibits of the main fund, the Museum of the History of School No.3, the Museum of the History of School No.7 with a room of M.V.Nechkina, the Korolyov Museum in School No.14, the Glory Museum of Agrarian and Technical Institute, the Museum-Chemists shop named after M.Ligda. The following institutions function at Nizhyn State Pedagogical Institute named after Gogol: The Museum of Gogol, Art Gallery, the Museum “Rare book”, zoological museum, and botanical museum.\nNizhyn is a well-known industrial center, where 16 industrial enterprises, which belong to 8 branches, operate. Nizhyn is also an attractive tourist city. It is included into the tour “Necklace of Slavutych”.\n\nArchitecturally Nizhyn was shaped in the 18th century. Foremost among its buildings must be mentioned its seven Baroque churches: Annunciation Cathedral (1702–16, modernised 1814), Presentation Cathedral (1788), St. Michael's Church of the Greek community (1719–29), St John's Church (1752, \"illustrated, to the right\"), Saviour's Transfiguration Church (1757), Intercession Church (1765), and the so-called Cossack Cathedral of St. Nicholas (1658, restored 1980s), a rare survival from the days of Nizhyn's Cossack glory, noted for its octagonal vaults and drums crowned by archetypal pear-shaped domes (picture). Other notable buildings include the Trinity Church (1733, rebuilt a century later), the Greek magistrate (1785), and the Neoclassical complex of the Nizhyn Lyceum (designed by Luigi Rusca, built in 1805–17, expanded in 1876–79).\n\nModern Nizhyn – a major industrial center. The city has 16 companies and firms from eight industries:\nPVKF ** \"Courier\";\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262219", "title": "Angel Tales", "text": "Angel Tales\n\nThe series was licensed for distribution by Bandai Entertainment in North America.\n\nThe main character, Gorō Mutsumi, has no luck at all, not with jobs, nor with his schooling, and especially not with women or girlfriends. That is until the day he meets a fortune teller who informs him that he will have a fateful encounter and adds a spell to his cell phone that allows his guardian angels to appear to him. Gorō does not believe her and walks away as he remembers all of his previous times of bad luck with women.\n\nIt is then seen that he meets three girls who are waiting for him as he is bathing. They say they are now his guardian angels, sent to earth from the spirit realm. They are the first three of his twelve beloved pets who had died due to Gorō's poor luck, returning to him on earth. He does not find out they are his pets at first.\n\nSoon more of his former pets return to him as guardian angels, and each desires to be his favorite. They also have fears from their past lives that they must overcome, and they must learn to live with each other. It is the only way they will stand a chance of helping Gorō turn his life around.\n\nThese girls however are not the only ones on earth; because of Gorō's own past life, there are strange people out there trying to put a stop to these girls turning his luck around. For their own reasons, these people fear Gorō and desire him out of the way. As the story progresses the girls learn they must protect Gorō not only from his own bad luck but from these other people, without fully understanding either who they are or why they want to harm their beloved master.\n\nThe titular guardian angels are reincarnations of Gorō's beloved childhood pets who are modeled after girls whom Gorō had been friends with as a child. Each of the pets died in an unfortunate accident, but was reincarnated as one of Gorō's guardian angels. All of the girls love Gorō, are very possessive of him and are willing to protect him even at the cost their own lives. Each of the girls has a phobia related to the cause of her death from when she was a pet. Over the course of the story, the girls have to overcome their fears in order to help Gorō. They all acknowledge each other as family, referring to one another as sisters.\n\nRan is a calm and caring girl who is the reincarnation of Gorō's pet goldfish. Ran is a Senior rank guardian angel and one of the first three angels to appeared in the series. She has the most screen time of any girl in the anime and her image was used to advertise the show more than any of the other angels. The series even opens with her death as a goldfish: while Gorō was on vacation, a power failure stopped the circulation pump in Ran's tank and she died due to a lack of oxygen. Due to this, Ran has \"aquaphobia\": a fear of water.\nShe is deeply in love with Gorō. Tsubasa also notes and comments upon the fact that Ran's feelings surpass her own, and vows to bring Ran and Gorō together. Ran's name means orchid and her hairstyle represents a fish's fins. Her color image is pink.\n\nTsubasa is one of the first three angels to appear to Gorō and is of Intermediate rank. She was a parakeet in her past life, her hairstyle represents a parakeet's wings and her name means wing. As a bird, she had a broken wing and was rescued by Gorō, who took care of her. She tried to show Gorō her appreciation for his attention by showing him her beauty in flight, but her wing hadn't healed fully and she fell from the house's window and died. As a result, Tsubasa suffers from \"acrophobia\": a fear of heights.\nTsubasa has deep feelings for Gorō, and she is angry at Rei, the Red Phoenix (Suzaku), who is in love with her but hurt her beloved master. Her color image is red.\nIn Season 2, Tsubasa is promoted to Senior rank.\n\nKurumi is one of the first three angels that appeared in the series and is of Intermediate rank. She is named after and looks identical to Goro's childhood crush. In her past life she was a hamster that escaped from her cage and got lost, unable to find her way home and she eventually died of starvation. She now has \"borborygmuphobia\": a fear of hunger, and is always snacking. Her hairstyle, bao and mouth shape represent a hamster's ears and mouth. Her name means walnut and her color image is yellow. She tends to end her sentences with \"Nano\".\n\nYuki is a Senior rank guardian angel and the eldest of Goro's guardian angels. She acts, and is seen, as a mother to the younger angels and Mika insultingly refers to her as \"mother. She usually remains quiet but will give useful advice when asked. Yuki was a white snake in her past life. Her name means snow, alluding to the color of her skin and scales as a snake. Yuki's color image is blue. In her past life Yuki burned to death, and she suffers from \"pyrophobia\": the fear of fire. She is the bride of Gou the Azure Dragon (Seiryu).\nIn season 2, Yuki becomes a goddess in place of the previous goddess, who broke the rules. She watches over the world especially animals and Gorō.\n\nMika is a Senior rank guardian angel. She was a rabbit in her past life and her hairstyle represents a rabbit's ears. She is extroverted and hyperactive and her over-the-top antics usually result in her being yelled at by Ayumi and Akane (rabbits have a history of rivalry with turtles and foxes). When she was a rabbit, she died of loneliness. Her attention seeking may be due to \"autophobia\": a fear of loneliness. Her name means new moon, alluding to myth of the rabbit of the moon. Her color image is orange.\nUnlike most of the other angels, she is very clearly romantically attracted to Gorō.\n\nAyumi is a Senior rank guardian angel. She was a turtle in her past life and is slow to make decisions because she is always thinking ahead. Ayumi always wears a green beret-like hat that symbolizes her turtle shell in her past life. Ayumi often scolds Mika and argues with her most of the time. Her name means walk and her color image is black. As a turtle, Ayumi was crushed to death, so she is now claustrophobic (afraid of tight spaces) and achluophobic (afraid of the dark).\nAyumi is the bride of Shin, the Black Turtle (Genbu). Out of the four guardian angels who were abducted by the four Saint Beasts, she reciprocates her abductor's feelings the most.\n\nAkane is an Intermediate rank guardian angel. She was a fox in her past life and her pony tail and hair ribbon-ties represent a fox's tail and ears. Akane is introverted and misunderstood girl: she appears to be cold but is actually very friendly and warms to Midori more than the other angels. She is mature for her age but is very afraid of dogs, even Nana. This is because in her past life she was a fox who died after dogs attacked her and her family and she was shot by a hunter. She is, therefore, afraid of dogs (cynophobia), loud noises (ligryophobia) and bright lights (selaphobia). Her color image is purple and her name means red dye. She reveals that she is in love with Gorō.\n\nMidori is an Intermediate rank guardian angel who is often seen with Akane working in an udon restaurant, which is a reference to Japanese mythology. In her past life as a raccoon dog, and her hairstyle represents a raccoon's mask and tail. Midori died of food poisoning and she is now a very picky eater (toxicophobia is a fear of poisoning). She and Akane have the ability to shapeshift - a power that tanuki and kitsune have been known to possess in Japanese mythology. Her name means green and that is her color image.\n\nTamami is an Intermediate rank guardian angel. She was a cat in her past life and her hairstyle represents a cat's ears. Tamami has a very cat-like personality: she is very hyperactive and is able to scale walls with ease. She has a tendency to take naps in warm, sunny places. Her name means beautiful gem and her color image is white.\nIn her past life, Tamami was run over by a car and she now has \"motorphobia\": a fear of cars or automobiles. \nTamami is the bride of Gai, the White Tiger (Byakko), who is very protective of her but says that she's too young.\nIn the second season, Tamami is promoted to Senior rank due to her achievements in the human world.\n\nMomo is a Junior rank guardian angel. She was a monkey in her past life and her hairstyle represents a monkey's tail. Strangely, her monkey form greatly resembles a tarsier. Her name means peach and her color image is brown.\nMomo is shy and unable to express what is on her mind. However, she gradually develops courage and self-confidence. Nana and Lulu note that Momo has a crush on a boy from the neighborhood, named Daisuke, who too had a crush on her.\nAs a monkey, Momo was very curious and adventurous which led to her losing her tail and dying by electrocution. She now has \"electraphobia\": a fear of electricity and \"technophobia\": a fear of technology, electronics or anything powered by electricity.\nIn season 2, she is promoted to Intermediate rank and she develops feelings for Gorō.\n\nNana is a Junior rank guardian angel. She was a dog in her past life and her hairstyle represents a dog's ears. Nana has a tomboyish personality and is hyperactive, like a puppy. She enjoys walks but tends to get lost. When Nana was a dog, she died in pain and is afraid of feeling pain (agliophobia). Her name means grace and her color image is light blue.\n\nLulu is a Junior rank guardian angel and the youngest of the group. She was a frog in her past life and her hairstyle and hair ornaments represent a frog's skin and eyes. Lulu is a rather spoiled girl who only listens to and obeys Gorō, much to Gou and Gai's displeasure and frustration. As a frog, Lulu froze to death, so she is afraid of the cold (cryophobia) and cold objects (frigophobia). Her name means pearl and her color image is yellow-green.\n\nAs early as Tamami's entrance (in the second episode), these four men who are reincarnations of the Four Sacred Beasts (Seiryu, Suzaku, Byakko and Genbu) make numerous attempts to eliminate Gorō's life. Midway into the story, Yuki, Tsubasa, Tamami and Ayumi are kidnapped by them to be their respective \"brides\". It is later revealed that the reason for this was revenge for Gorō's past life taking their special powers. However, it was also revealed after the confrontation between Gorō and the eight remaining angels and the four gods that Gorō's past life was in fact Seijya \"Not human nor animal two supreme beings that are tied together\" and the act of taking these powers was only to prevent any possible conflict between humans and animals. Because of finally understanding the true reason for the loss of their powers, the four kidnapped angels are returned to normal and the four move in to assume the task of protecting Gorō. Unfortunately, they aren't as efficient as the angels so they elect to leave Gorō again with the angels to reclaim their powers on their own, knowing that Gorō is in good hands with the angels. They all wear qipao-like attire colored in their respective colors. They make no appearance in the second season, but are mentioned.\n\nIn 2003, a spin-off series named Saint Beast premiered. Other than the Four Saint Beasts and Yuki as the Goddess as well as Ayumi, Tamami, Tsubasa and Gorō Mutsumi reincarnated as the sage, there is no real relationship to Angel Tales.\n\nSacred Power: Fang(Sword) of the Blue Dragon. Lightning Blast\n\nSacred Power: Wings of the Red Phoenix. Talon Strike. Scorched Flame\n\nSacred Power: Armour of the White Tiger. Tiger Claw\n\nSacred Power: Shield of the Black Turtle. Genbu Shell Attack.\n\n\n\nThere is also a PlayStation game by the same name published by Bandai Games.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262229", "title": "Silvestre Vélez de Escalante", "text": "Silvestre Vélez de Escalante\n\nSilvestre Vélez de Escalante (flourished 1768–1779) was a Franciscan missionary and explorer of the Southwest United States during the late 18th century. He is known for his journal, in which he described the expeditions he went on. These included a failed overland expedition in 1776. \n\nEscalante and his superior Francisco Atanasio Domínguez, cartographer Don Bernardo Miera y Pacheco, and eight others left from Santa Fe, New Mexico trying to reach Monterey, California (they were joined soon after by 2 more), during which they passed through what is now southwest Colorado and Utah—where they were the first white men to travel— through the east side of the Great Basin, and returned to Santa Fe by way of Arizona, skirting the eastern portion of the Grand Canyon, and passing through the badlands of western New Mexico.\n\nEscalante namesakes include Escalante Desert, Escalante River, Escalante (town), Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument, and the Escalante Elementary & High schools (Rio Arriba County, New Mexico).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262230", "title": "Salvatore Adamo", "text": "Salvatore Adamo\n\nSalvatore, Knight Adamo (born 1 November 1943) is a Belgian singer and composer, who is known for his romantic ballads. Adamo was born in Italy and grew up from the age of three in Belgium. He holds dual citizenship of Belgium and Italy. \n\nHe first gained popularity throughout Europe and later in the Middle East, Latin America, Japan, and the United States. He has sold more than 80 million albums and 20 million singles making him one of the most commercially successful musicians in the world. He mainly performs in French but has also sung in Italian, Dutch, English, German, Spanish, Japanese, and Turkish. \"Tombe la neige\", \"La nuit\", and \"Inch'Allah\" remain his best known songs. He is currently the best selling Belgian musician of all time.\n\nAdamo was born in Comiso, Sicily. His father Antonio, a well digger, emigrated to Belgium in February 1947 to work in the mines of Marcinelle. Four months later his wife, Concetta, and their son, Salvatore, joined him in the town of Ghlin (Mons) before moving to Jemappes (Mons). In 1950, Salvatore was bedridden for a year with meningitis.\n\nSalvatore's parents did not want their son to become a miner, so he went to a Catholic school run by the Frères des Ecoles Chrétiennes. By 1960, the family of Antonio and Concetta Adamo had seven children overall. Salvatore grew up in Jemappes (Mons), where he was a dedicated student at school and distinguished himself in music and the arts.\n\nAdamo's early influences were the poetry of Victor Hugo and Jacques Prévert, the music of French singer-songwriters like Georges Brassens, and the Italian \"canzonette\". He started singing and composing his own songs from an early age. His debut was in a Radio Luxembourg competition, where he participated as singer and composer of the song \"Si j'osais\" (\"If I dared\"), winning the competition's final held in Paris on 14 February 1960.\n\nAdamo's first hit was \"Sans toi, ma mie\", in 1963, from his debut album \"63/64\". He followed this with a series of hits, the most famous being \"Tombe la neige\" (\"The snow falls\") in 1963, \"La nuit\" (\"The Night\") in 1964, and \"Inch'Allah\". The self-penned \"Petit bonheur\" (\"Little Happiness\") sold over one million copies by April 1970, and was awarded a gold disc.\n\nAdamo has sold over 100 million copies of recordings worldwide. He has recorded in many languages and, besides France and Belgium, had hits in Italy, the Netherlands, Germany, Spain, Portugal, Turkey and also in Japan, where he toured repeatedly. He has had hits and toured also in Latin America and throughout the Middle East.\n\nIn Chile, the audience awarded him an appreciation prize known as the \"Antorcha\" (Gold and Silver Torch) at the \"Festival de Viña del Mar\" held yearly in the \"Quinta Vergara\", at the seaside resort of Viña del Mar, where he once had to sing in three different, sold-out venues in the same night. In the 1980s, Adamo's career faltered, as the style of his music was no longer fashionable. Since the 1990s, however, and on the crest of a nostalgia wave, he has successfully resumed composing, issuing records and touring, starting with a full season at the \"Casino de Paris\" venue in April 1990.\n\nAdamo briefly attempted movie acting when he was cast in the film \"Les Arnaud\" (1967), which starred Bourvil. Amália Rodrigues recorded \"Inch'Allah\" in French. \"Tombe la neige\", one of his many international hits, has been covered in Bulgarian, Turkish (\"\"Her Yerde Kar Var\"\"), Japanese, Portuguese, Spanish, Italian and Chinese (Cantopop).\n\nIn 2001, Adamo was raised into the Belgian nobility (with motto \"Humblement mais dignement\") by King Albert II and given for life the Belgian noble title \"Ridder\", translated into English as \"Knight\". He was appointed an Officer of the Belgian Order of the Crown in 2002. In 2014, Adamo was honoured at Victoires de la Musique in France.\n\nIn 1984, Adamo had heart problems which necessitated a heart bypass operation and a temporary though total withdrawal from work. Since 1993, he has been an honorary UNICEF ambassador from Belgium and, in this capacity, has visited countries such as Vietnam, Lebanon, Bosnia, Kosovo, Afghanistan and others. In 2004, health problems forced him to cancel a scheduled tour but, since 2007, he is touring again. In December 2011, he performed in Espinho, Portugal and Bucharest, Romania.\n\nAt the end of the 1960s, Adamo married Nicole. Their children were Anthony (born in 1969), Benjamin, and then Amélie. At the height of his stardom, his own father died by drowning on 7 August 1966. His younger sister Délizia was also a recording artist. He wrote a number of songs for his sister, including her debut hit \"Prends le chien\" in 1974. She also joined him in his tour in 1975.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262237", "title": "Lawsonville, North Carolina", "text": "Lawsonville, North Carolina\n\nLawsonville is an unincorporated community in Stokes County, North Carolina, United States, approximately ten miles north-northwest of the county seat of Danbury, on North Carolina State Highway 8.\n"}
{"id": "2262238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262238", "title": "Nanaerobe", "text": "Nanaerobe\n\nNanaerobes are organisms that cannot grow in the presence of micromolar concentrations of oxygen, but can grow with and benefit from the presence of nanomolar concentrations of oxygen (e.g. \"Bacteroides fragilis\"). Like other anaerobes, these organisms do not require oxygen for growth. This growth benefit requires the expression of an oxygen respiratory chain that is typically associated with microaerophilic respiration. Recent studies suggest that respiration in low concentrations of oxygen is an ancient process which predates the emergence of oxygenic photosynthesis.\n"}
{"id": "2262243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262243", "title": "17th Airlift Squadron", "text": "17th Airlift Squadron\n\nThe 17th Airlift Squadron was one of four active duty C-17A Globemaster III units at Charleston AFB, South Carolina.\n\nThe 17th Airlift Squadron is commanded by a lieutenant colonel, who serves as head of the squadron and the pilots. The chief loadmaster is in charge of the loadmasters, the first sergeant takes charge of the few support military personnel and civilians working in the squadron.\n\nThe 17th was responsible for being the first unit to set up forward deployed C-17 staging operations, at the start of Operation Enduring Freedom, creating the 817th Expeditionary Airlift Squadron (EAS).\n\nThe 17th Airlift Squadron recently stepped up to the plate once more and created another EAS. For the first time, two C-17 Squadrons became deployed in forward theater locations, supporting Operations Iraqi Freedom, and Enduring Freedom. The 817th Area of Responsibility split. On 1 June 2006, the 816th Expeditionary Airlift Squadron was created and launched its first crew 15 minutes later.\n\nUnlike previous C-17 deployments, this one actually had the squadron itself doing all the flying from \"an undisclosed location in Southwest Asia.\" The 17th helped initiate a whole new concept in C-17 operations in that this was the first time that the airframe was employed like traditional intratheater airlift assets such as the C-12, C-20, C-21 or the C-130. However, unlike traditional tactical airlift assets that are under the direct command of the theater commander, the 817th EAS is headquartered out of theater.\n\nConstituted 17th Air Corps Ferrying Squadron on 18 Feb 1942. Activated on 27 Apr 1942 at Hamilton Field, California flying C-46 transporters. Redesignated 17th Transport Squadron on 19 Mar 1943. Disbanded on 31 Oct 1943. Reconstituted, and redesignated 17th Air Transport Squadron, Medium, on 22 Mar 1954. Activated on 18 Jul 1954 with C-54s at Charleston AFB, South Carolina. \n\nRedesignated: 17th Air Transport Squadron, Heavy, on 18 Jun 1958 with C-124; 17th Military Airlift Squadron on 8 Jan 1966. Inactivated on 8 Apr 1969. Activated on 1 Aug 1987. Redesignated 17th Airlift Squadron on 1 Oct 1991, flying C-141s.\n\nOn January 17 1995, the 17th Airlift Squadron was declared the first operationally ready C-17 squadron. The 17th Airlift Squadron was officially inactivated on June 25 2015 at Joint Base Charleston, S.C.\n\n\nNote: the 17th Airlift Squadron already existed at the time of redesignation as a C-130 squadron based at Elmendorf AFB, Alaska. This unit originated from the 17th Troop Carrier Squadron under Alaskan Air Command in 1964. The squadron was redesignated the 17th Tactical Airlift Squadron in 1966. It was redesignated the 517th Airlift Squadron upon activation of the C-17 unit that took its name. In January 2006 the 517th Airlift Squadron began its own transition from C-130s to C-17s with the final C-130 leaving the unit on 26 March 2007.\n\n\nHamilton Field, California, 27 April 1942 – 31 October 1943\n\n\nWorld War II:<br>\nAir Transport and aircraft delivery to the Pacific Theater\n\n\nWorld War II American Theater\n\nSouthwest Asia: Defense of Saudi Arabia; Liberation and Defense of Kuwait\n\nPanama, 1989–1990\n\nAir Force Outstanding Unit Awards:\n\nRepublic of Vietnam Gallantry Cross with Palm: 1 April 1966 – 8 April 1969\n\nOn an Air Force Blue globe, grid lines White, issuing from the top of a White scroll, two hands flesh tone, winged at the wrists White, bearing supplies or cargo Air Force golden Yellow; outlines and details Air Force Blue throughout. MOTTO: ANYTHING, ANYWHERE, ANYTIME. Approved 27 October 1959 (K 11458).\n\n"}
{"id": "2262244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262244", "title": "Satellite Business Systems", "text": "Satellite Business Systems\n\nSatellite Business Systems, abbreviated as \"SBS\", was a company founded by IBM, Aetna, COMSAT (and later wholly purchased by IBM and then subsequently sold to MCI), that provided private professional satellite communications through its SBS fleet of FSS geosynchronous satellites, and was the first company to do so.\n\nSBS was founded on December 15, 1975 by the aforementioned companies with the goal of providing a digital satellite communications network for business and other professional clients.\n\nIn late 1970, MCI Communications created a subsidiary company named MCI Satellite, Inc. The idea was that satellites could provide 'long distance' service from anywhere to anywhere without having to build thousands of miles of terrestrial network facilities. In early 1971, MCI and Lockheed Missiles and Space Company created a joint venture named MCI Lockheed Satellite Corp. which was the first company to request FCC authorization as a Specialized Common Carrier using satellite based communications. A year later, MCI and Lockheed sought an additional source of funding and Comsat Corp. entered the venture which was renamed CML Satellite Corp. In need of cash, MCI sold its share of the venture to IBM Corporation in 1974 (Lockheed also subsequently sold its share to IBM).\n\nIBM owned one third of the company by 1975. It and Comsat brought in Aetna Insurance Company as a third partner and renamed the company Satellite Business Systems (SBS).\n\nThe original concept was for a large corporation to install SBS earth stations at each of its major sites. This strategy limited SBS' addressable market to corporations with enough concentrated voice and data traffic to justify the installation of multiple earth stations. Earth stations were generally not shared by SBS customers.\n\nAlthough the SBS technology provided switched digital, leased digital, switched analog, and leased analog connections between a customer's earth stations, most customers used it mainly for intra-corporate voice calls. Data communications protocols of the period were not efficient over satellite links.\n\nOne SBS customer, ISACOMM, extended the business model to smaller corporate customers and provided offnet connectivity as well.\n\nThe high initial costs of deploying earth stations, along with the rapid success and expansion of terrestrial competitors like MCI and Sprint, prevented SBS from attaining its commercial targets. Excess transponders on SBS satellites were leased to other companies, and SBS adopted some of ISACOMM's marketing tactics and even pursued the consumer long-distance market on a limited basis.\n\nSBS' fleet of satellites were the first in orbit to offer transponders in the K band, meaning that smaller, less expensive dishes and equipment could be used to receive and transmit to the satellites, making SBS' satellite system attractive for business customers. This was opposed to then-current satellites using the C band of RF spectrum, requiring a larger (and more costly) dish 8 feet (and up) in size. However, K signals suffered more from rain fade.\n\nThe SBS earth station was designed by IBM. It consisted of a highly modified IBM 1800 and a TDMA modem. All earth stations were managed from the SBS central network operations facility located in McLean, VA, which was also the headquarters location for the corporation.\n\n The first use of the NASA Shuttle for commercial purposes was the deployment of the SBS 3 satellite in November, 1982 from STS-5. SBS engineers designed the cradle that sat in the cargo bay of the shuttle and spun up to 50 RPM, then ejected the spinning satellite with the use of explosive bolts.\n\nThrough its existence as a company, SBS had six satellites in orbit:\nAll the above satellites were built by Hughes using the HS-376 platform of satellite, with the exception of SBS 6, which used the HS-393 platform.\n\nSBS 1-6 have since reached the end of their useful life and are no longer in service (having been placed in graveyard orbits), SBS 6 was the last SBS satellite in operation at 74 degrees west longitude, it was decommissioned in July 2007 and replaced by Intelsat Galaxy 17.\n\nIn July 1984, Comsat left SBS, and exactly a year later, Satellite Business Systems was sold to MCI. MCI migrated the voice and data traffic of most SBS customers to its terrestrial network. During the sale of SBS to MCI, four satellites (SBS 1-4) were then in orbit.\n\nIn 1987, SBS' fleet was sold off. SBS 1 and 2 were sold to Comsat, SBS 3 remained with MCI, and SBS 4 was sold to IBM's Satellite Transponder Leasing Corporation (STLC) together with the SBS 5 and 6 satellites, which were then still on the ground.\n\nIn April 1990, Hughes Communications Inc (HCI), a subsidiary of Hughes Aircraft (who built the satellites) bought STLC from IBM. Sometime later (possibly around 1992) SBS 3 was sold to Comsat.\n\nDue to the divestiture of its fleet (to MCI & HCI, and to Comsat and IBM as well, the former founders of SBS), SBS no longer exists as an entity, with the last satellite left of its fleet, SBS 6, being decommissioned in July 2007 and last being owned by Intelsat.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262245", "title": "The Warriors (video game)", "text": "The Warriors (video game)\n\nThe Warriors is a beat 'em up video game, developed by Rockstar Toronto and published by Rockstar Games. It was released on October 17, 2005 for PlayStation 2, Xbox and was later released for PlayStation Portable. \n\"The Warriors\" is based on the 1979 movie of the same name (which in turn, is based on the 1965 novel of the same name), and features large scale brawling in 3D environments interspersed with other activities such as chase sequences.\n\nThe console versions of the game were developed at Rockstar Toronto, while the PSP port was developed by Rockstar Leeds. The game was first released on PS2 and Xbox on October 17, 2005 in the United States and October 21, 2005 in Europe. The original Xbox version featured 720p resolution; marking the first Rockstar game with HD graphics for home consoles. The game was then released on the PlayStation 3 on May 28, 2013 in the United States and May 29, 2013 in Europe via the PlayStation Network. The game was released on the PlayStation 4 on July 5, 2016 in the United States and Europe via the PlayStation Network. However, due to licensing restrictions, as of 2016 several songs on the soundtrack have been removed from both the PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4 versions of The Warriors, including Fear's \"I Love Livin' in the City, and Joe Walsh's \"In the City\" from the original film's soundtrack.\n\nThe game takes place in gritty 1970s New York City. The story follows a street gang known as the Warriors, who have been accused of a murder they didn't commit, and must return to their home turf in one night, although the game begins three months prior to the film's events. The actors from the film itself reprised their roles to perform the voices of their original characters. Upon its release, \"The Warriors\" received a positive critical response.\n\n\"The Warriors\" is an action-adventure, survival game which focuses heavily on brawling. Like most games from Rockstar Games, several minor gameplay elements are mixed into the experience, such as the ability to use spray paint to mark turf or to insult other people. The playable characters are the Warriors leader Cleon, Cleon's lieutenant Swan, heavy muscles Ajax and Snow, Cleon and Swan's friends Vermin and Cowboy, the scout Fox, Harlem native Cochise, and Rembrandt, the Warriors graffiti artist. Cleon, Swan, Ajax, and Rembrandt are the most heavily featured characters. An arcade game called \"Armies of the Night\" is unlocked after you complete the main storyline of the game. The playable characters are Swan and Ajax.\n\nIn this prequel segment, The Warriors' headquarters serves as a hub. From inside, you can train (10 ranks of physical fitness such as, sit-ups, press ups, chin ups, and heavy bag, that increase your stamina), talk to fellow gang members, play through rumble mode and other bonus material, walk outside to Coney Island for extra missions, or begin the next level of the story proper. The player is presented with mission objectives such as beating up a certain number of enemy gang members or stealing a certain amount of items, with more complex and creative tasks like winning a graffiti competition in SoHo, stealing goods to plant on crooked cops and rival gang members, and wild chases away from baseball bat wielding members of the Baseball Furies. Fighting takes the form of gang rumble style action with the player being assisted by other Warriors at the same time (a minimum of 1 and a maximum of 8). Combos are performed with 2-3 button chains for weak attacks, strong attacks, holds and throws. Grab attacks can be used for the playable character to perform their own unique power attack that will quickly decrease the enemy's health. The game sees the Warriors fight their way through the ranks, building a heavy rep and getting their colors out in force, until they get an invite to a meeting of all of the gangs of New York City, which is where the movie (and the last few missions of the game) begins.\n\nThe game progresses linearly from one mission event to the next, usually presented as a cutscene. Combat in \"The Warriors\" occurs in real time and involves pressing buttons to initiate attacks by the on-screen character. By pausing the game, the player can find combat techniques―2-3 combos, wall smash, grab and throws, charges, body cross attack, snap attacks, weapon attacks, and counter-attacks. The player can also look at the character's stats. This menu is manipulated by using the right analog stick, while movement is controlled in the 3D environment using the joystick, and camera controls are managed using the up arrow on the digital pad and the analog joystick, allowing the player to navigate the menu while avoiding or approaching enemies. In addition, players can choose to mug people, receiving money, flash, and spray. Each level contains items the player can collect or steal, such as car radios and jewelry. Completing these actions earn the player points, which count towards unlocking soldiers, arenas and game modes for Rumble Mode, the game's free-for-all multiplayer mode.\n\nThe playable character has a bar below their feet to determine their health level, reducing whenever the character takes damage, although it can be replenished by using flash. The circular grey bar inside the health bar represents the player's grappling stamina, draining upon grabbing or mounting an opponent. The top-left hand side represents the character rage meter, which, when filled, allows the player to pull off a variety of combos and styles. In rage, the player will become temporarily invincible, using finishing moves and inflicting serious damage on the opponent. The player's allies, if they are knocked out, the player can use flash to replenish their health. However, if the playable character loses all of their health, the mission ends and the player will be prompted to resume from the checkpoint or restart the mission from the beginning. Defeating enemies will cause items to fall from their bodies; flash to restore health; spray to spray over enemy gang territories; and money which can be used to purchase items from dealers.\n\nThe player can choose to help other people in Coney Island. In return for helping these people, the Warriors will learn new abilities, such as defeating policemen to receive cuffs to subdue and arrest anybody, cuff-keys that will allow the player to free Warriors with keys instead of breaking cuffs, escape from cuffs themselves with cuff-keys, increase flash capacity, and earn brass knuckles and steel-toed boots to inflict more damage to the enemy. The player can also choose to have the Warriors exercise in the headquarters to increase stamina.\n\nDuring \"The Warriors\", there are a collection of levels, referred to as missions, which the player must progress through. Eighteen can be accessed, along with six more bonus missions, known as \"Flashbacks\", which show how the Warriors were formed, and how each member of the Warriors came to join the gang, and to unlock an arcade machine that will allow you to play \"Armies of the Night\". The setting in the game for the Warriors is their home territory, Coney Island. However, throughout the game, the player travels to other areas of New York City visiting other gangs' territories in the process. Completing the missions/game allows the player to replay levels, to improve on the player's score, and unlock new characters, and a game mode called Fury Mode where you play as the Baseball Furies.\n\nThe design and casting of the characters was very faithful to what was seen in \"The Warriors\". Each character is still portrayed as their respective role from the film ― Cyrus, the Riffs leader, inhabits Van Cortlandt Park, where the meeting took place. Luther, the Rogues leader, is based out of his hearse, The Baseball Furies' territory is Riverside Park, The Lizzies' their apartment, with other smaller gangs based around the city. When starting a mission, the Warriors will occasionally stay at their home turf or travel to another place via train to use as a starting point.\n\nMissions and events normally begin at the Coney Island headquarters, which is also used as a launching point throughout the game (except after the meeting), and the player can also travel to places all across New York City, including Tremont where the Warriors encounters the Orphans, a low-class gang, and also Riverside Park which is run by the Baseball Furies, a well-respected gang. The main players travel from one turf to another all across New York, to let the public radio station know there is a new gang in town. This sometimes results in the Warriors brawling with the rival gangs. The Warriors' hangout features a machine resembling a pinball table, the \"Rumble Mode\" which upon completion of missions, unlocks special stages where the player can fight all of the gangs in New York City.\n\nThe primary protagonist is Cleon, the Warriors leader in the first half of the game until after the meeting. Cleon's role was to increase the Warriors reputation and rid Coney Island of the Destroyers. The major protagonist is Swan, the second-in-command throughout most of the game, covering the film itself. Swan's role was to bring the Warriors back to Coney Island from the meeting where they were set up as the murderers of Cyrus. The other Warriors feature an important role with each Warrior having a role, like the heavy muscle Ajax and Snow, Vermin is the bread man, which means he is the one who carries the money, Cowboy keeps track of The Warriors inventory, although this is only mentioned in the film. Fox is the scout who goes ahead of The Warriors, warning them if trouble is ahead, Harlem native Cochise is the watchman who watches their back when walking in a group, Snow is the radio man, which is also only established in the film. and Rembrandt is The Warriors' graffiti artist.\n\nMercy serves as Swan's love interest in the second half of \"The Warriors\". The primary antagonist is Luther, the Rogues leader, responsible for Cyrus' murder and framing the Warriors for the crime. During battles and encounters with enemies, other Warrior members will assist the player in various situations.\n\nOther areas contain other gangs of New York City, which the player must defeat in a battle. On one occasion, gang members tend to be scouts that appear in orange dots on the radar in different areas and spaces. Upon being spotted by the gang member, the scout will call for backup, and the orange circles up the radar ― the player can then choose either to attack or stealth kill the scout. Policemen will appear as blue dots on the radar; if the player commits a crime, the blue circles up the radar, the blue dots will flash and the crime that is committed will appear on the middle screen, prompting the officers to chase and attempt to handcuff the player― the player can also assault the officers or sneak into a hide area if no-one can see the player at the time. Civilians in local places will rat the player out to a gang member or the police when committing a crime that disturbs their inhabitants.\n\nThroughout the Warriors endeavours, they will be aided by Flash, Spray, and Knife dealers, to help them out ― Flash dealers are there to supply the player with flash, a street drug that restores health, which costs 20 dollars, Spray dealers supply the player with spray paint, which costs 5 dollars, while Knife Dealers supply the player with knives, which cost 50 dollars. However, some of the dealers tend to defraud the player and make a run for it, but the player can chase them down to recover their money. However, if the player chooses to attack the dealers, they will either retaliate or run, though they will respawn. In \"Rumble Mode\", playable characters can also be other gangs that have been unlocked in the game, to compete against other gangs in a match of one's choosing.\n\nIn the story mode of the game, there are a total of 18 missions. Missions 1-13 take place three months before the meeting and missions 14-18 cover the movie itself. The player can only control one specific character in each mission, while the others are computer-controlled. The main Warriors that are controlled by the player are Cleon, Swan, Rembrandt, Ajax, Cowboy and Cochise. The only Warrior to not have a full playable mission to themselves is Snow; the only time players assume control of him is in the second half of mission 6 Writers Block, also Fox doesn't have a mission where he leads a War party. Along with the main missions, there are 5 bonus missions called \"Flashbacks\", which tell how the Warriors started and how each member joined. During each mission, the Warriors will meet and face off with other gangs in New York. In most missions, they will take the subway train to the other gang's turf. Although they are featured and mentioned in the game, the Electric Eliminators, the Panzers and the Van Cortlandt Rangers are the only gangs that the Warriors do not meet. The Destroyers are the only gang that are not featured in the film. Completing each mission unlocks gangs, arenas and mini-games.\n\nDuring each mission, there are 6 commands that the Warchief can issue out to his fellow Warriors.\n\n\nThe game follows the plot of the film \"The Warriors\", focusing on a Coney Island street gang the Warriors. Led by Cleon ninety-days prior, the Warriors dispose their long time rival gang the Destroyers after Virgil, the Destroyers leader and former friend of Cleon is defeated. Their reputation increases by humiliating a low-rank gang the Orphans, killing Chatterbox leader of the Hi-Hats, spraying on trains, allying with the Saracens and set up their rivals the Jones Street Boys, and corrupt NYPD officers. Meanwhile, Cyrus, leader of the Gramercy Riffs, the most powerful gang in New York City plans a meeting to unite the gangs as one.\n\nOn the night of the meeting in Van Cortlandt Park, Cyrus proposes to the assembled crowd a permanent citywide truce that would allow the gangs to control the city. Everyone opens to Cyrus' idea, only the leader is fatally shot by the Rogues leader, Luther―in the dramatic chaos, the killer frames Cleon and the Warriors. The Riffs hold the Warriors responsible and beat down Cleon, leaving his fate ambiguous while the other Warriors escape. Swan, the Warriors \"warchief\" takes charge of the group and make their way home. Cyrus's death sends anger through the city and the Riffs call a hit on the Warriors on a radio DJ, with the Warriors unaware they are implicated in Cyrus' murder.\n\nAfter the Turnbull AC's failure to kill the Warriors as they escape to board the train en route to Coney Island, the train is stopped by a fire on the tracks at Tremont. On foot, they re-encounter the Orphans―who the Warriors humiliated prior. Swan makes peace, and Orphans' leader Sully allows them to walk through their territory unharmed; his partner Mercy mocks him, instigating a confrontation. The Warriors use a molotov cocktail, blowing up Sully's car and an impressed Mercy follows the Warriors.\n\nSwan, Mercy and the Warriors arrive on the 96th Street and Broadway in Manhattan, where they are detected by the police and separated. Three of them, Rembrandnt, Vermin, and Cochise board a train to Union Square. As Mercy escapes, Fox struggles with a police officer, falls to the tracks and is killed by an oncoming train. Swan and the other three, Snow, Ajax, and Cowboy run outside, and are chased into Riverside Park by the Baseball Furies, where a fight ensues and the Warriors emerge victorious. After fighting, Ajax notices a lone woman in the park; he is sexually aggressive and is arrested when the woman is revealed to be an undercover cop.\n\nIn the meantime at Union Square, Rembrandt, Vermin, and Cochise are seduced by an all-female gang the Lizzies, only to learn it's a trap. The trio escape, learning the truth―that everyone believes they killed Cyrus. Swan meets with Mercy and travel to Union Square where they are stalked by the Punks but the pair reunite with the other Warriors and defeat the Punks later on in the toilets. The Riffs receive a tip-off from a gang member who attended the meeting and witnessed Luther shoot Cyrus dead.\n\nThe Warriors finally arrive at Coney Island, where the Rogues are waiting for them and decide to face them. Luther freely admits to the murder and Swan suggests he and Luther have a one-on-one, but the Rogue leader pulls out his gun. Swan throws his knife at Luther's arm, disarming him. The Riffs arrive in force to confront the Rogues and make peace with the Warriors, before turning to fight the Rogues and a shattered Luther; the DJ announces the big alert has been called off and apologises to the Warriors saluting them with a song―\"In The City\". Swan, Mercy, and the Warriors safe and finally home walk down the beach.\n\nRockstar Games began working on \"The Warriors\" in 2002. The PlayStation 2 and Xbox versions of the game were developed by Rockstar Toronto, who were previously known as Rockstar Canada. Promotion of the game was aided by its appearance at E3 2005. The game was later ported to the PlayStation Portable platform, and developed by Rockstar Leeds. This was first announced in October 2006, and Rockstar Leeds worked with original developers Rockstar Toronto in order to make the port easier. A spokesperson had said \"We have worked closely with Rockstar Toronto to maintain the extremely high standards they've set for this game,\" said Gordon Hall, President of Rockstar Leeds. \"The PSP system allows us to deliver the experience in an entirely different way, while staying very faithful to the original source material and maintaining the high standards we set for ourselves as a developer.\"\n\n\"The Warriors\" then began to look a lot like several of Rockstar's other projects such as \"\", \"Manhunt\", and \"Red Dead Revolver\". The look and presentation are definitely familiar, despite coming from different production houses, each developer shares their toolsets and proprietary technologies with each other on a consistent basis A combination of the company's biggest hits like \"State of Emergency and Manhunt\", \"The Warriors\" successfully mixed multi-character co-op brawling with stealth action. Just as was the case on PlayStation 2, if there is anything that positively sticks out regarding how \"The Warriors\" plays, it's the surprising depth of its characters. All nine playable fighters, while similar, have their own unique selection of moves and strengths and offer slightly different takes on the same concept. Due to the PlayStation Portable being a handheld platform, differences to gameplay came about as a result of the port, such as the control configuration receiving a drastic change.\n\nDuring the review, a spokesman had stated \"the audio, on the other hand, is on the other side of the scale\". Many of the original actors from the film have returned to voice their characters—at least, most of the ones that are \"still alive\". Michael Beck, James Remar, and Dorsey Wright once again were praised in their excellent performances (despite sounding quite a bit older than the 20-something characters they play), and the remaining voice cast delivers, too. The spokesman further explains \"it helps that the dialogue is well written, but there's hardly a bad voice actor in the bunch; the one weird thing about the voice work, though, is that a lot of it is made up of lines directly from the film.\" It seems as though, in some situations, Rockstar might have been better off just taking audio directly from the film rather than rerecording it. Obviously, they'd want the voices to match, but there are situations in which they could have easily gotten away with it, and ultimately would've had a better piece of dialogue. The audio in this game is great. As the spokesperson further explained he said: \"To begin with the voice acting for all characters in the game is very, very good. From all the main characters to plain NPCs, each and everyone is done amazingly. On the subject of sound effects in the game it's also very good. Every little thing makes a sound and does it well.\"\n\n\"The Warriors\" features voice actors for both the 1979 film and the game versions. The film and game version cast Michael Beck as Swan, the protagonist of \"The Warriors\". Other notable voice actors included returning actors, James Remar as Ajax, Deborah Van Valkenburgh as Mercy, Dorsey Wright as Cleon, Thomas G. Waites as Fox, and David Harris as Cochise. A special effort was made to preserve the official voice actors of characters from \"The Warriors\" movie used in the game itself.\n\nWhile the movie version featured David Patrick Kelly as Luther, Roger Hill as Cyrus, and Marcelino Sánchez as Rembrandt, the game version featured Oliver Wyman as Luther, Andy Senor as Rembrandt, Joe Lo Truglio as Vermin, Michael Potts as Cyrus, and Kurt Bauccio as Cowboy. Supporting characters involves Darryl McDaniels and Jordan Gelber.\n\nUpon its release, \"The Warriors\" received critical acclaim from critics. Many praised the game for its deep combat and control, stating that the game helped breathe life into the brawler genre. The game was also praised for its unique seedy underbelly style, along with its story and music. Critics praised the audio as it \"really shines above all else\", with a replicated soundtrack and absolutely superb voice acting by many of the original actors who starred in the film. Rockstar Toronto has gained the most media coverage for its development of \"The Warriors\", which overall received positive reviews, and made about $37 million worldwide. \"Like the best of Rockstar’s games, 'The Warriors' immerses you in a world that feels at once authentic and highly stylized, and it might just be the best game adaptation of a film ever in terms of capturing the mood of the original movie.\" \"1UP.com\" admitted: \"As fanservice, The Warriors is a treat for anyone who loves the movie, and as a beat-em-up, it outclasses recent efforts from competitors. Yet as a complete package, it's somewhat inconsistent. But with bonus missions, multiplayer rumbles, and a very fun 2-player co-op mode...we can most definitely dig it\". \"The Warriors\" received a score of 7.4 for the design, the story received 8.5, while the gameplay received 7.9.\n\"Game Informer\" praised the feel and style of the game, stating: \"\"The Warriors\" immerses you in a world that feels at once authentic and highly stylized, and it might just be the best game adaptation of a film ever in terms of capturing the mood of the original movie. Fans will notice that all of the iconic scenes of the film are recreated almost shot for shot. In addition, Rockstar Toronto has gone to the trouble of creating a completely new storyline that shows players how the Warriors came together, and the events leading up to the start of the film.\" The reviewer went on to applaud the developers, saying they: \"Tried to stretch the conventional formula for what's considered a \"brawler\". Unlike most of the genre, where you walk down single-path alleyways, The Warriors, taking cues from other popular Rockstar titles, creates the illusion that you're in a real, living city.\n\nAlthough, sizewise, the levels are much closer to \"Manhunt\" than \"Grand Theft Auto\", there are areas to explore both on the ground and vertically, hidden items, amazing unlockables, and numerous side missions. They've also tried to expand the gameplay to incorporate more than just fisticuffs. You can engage in all sorts of petty crime, including muggings, stealing car stereos, lockpicking, and tagging graffiti. Throw in a little more variety in the form of some cool chase and stealth sequences, and you've got something more than a typical brawler.\"\n\nAs \"Game Informer\" further explained, they stated: \"The fighting engine itself is fairly deep, allowing you to pull off some very brutal moves with a modicum of button presses (including some cool co-op maneuvers). You’ll definitely feel cool kicking ass as a Warrior, whether hand-to-hand or with any of the numerous weapons. However, I found the feel of the combat to be sluggish and chaotic at times, especially when fighting large numbers of enemies. He recommended that \"turning on the option that makes it stay in split-screen, but even that is hampered by your very narrow field of vision.\" Critics enjoyed the graffiti writing, which is done through an \"ingenious mechanic\". He stated \"Although it’s certainly not a masterpiece, The Warriors gets by on style, flair, variety, and simple fun. The gameplay – while still enjoyable – isn’t nearly as polished as it could be, the story and the appeal of the world that The Warriors recreates will be enough to pull you through to the end.\"\n\nIn 2006, Roger Hill, who also played Cyrus in the movie, filed a lawsuit of USD$250,000 ($ when adjusted for inflation) against Take-Two for using his voice and depiction in the game without his permission. He claimed that it would not have been difficult for Take-Two to pay, since the game made $37 million ($ when adjusted for inflation).\n\nA spiritual sequel was planned by Rockstar, which was to be unrelated to \"The Warriors\". The game was to be titled \"We Are The Mods\" and was to be set in 1960s England during the mods and rockers brawls. However, later in 2009, an arcade game was released entitled \"\", which is a beat 'em up scroller video game created by CXTM and released on Xbox Live Arcade. In 2009, Dabel Brothers Productions began a five issue comic book adaption of the film. Following that was a four issue mini series entitled \"The Warriors: Jail Break\", which takes place several months after the film's events.\n"}
{"id": "2262247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262247", "title": "Rabbah bar Nahmani", "text": "Rabbah bar Nahmani\n\nRabbah bar Nachmani () (died c. 320 CE) was a Jewish Talmudist known throughout the Talmud simply as Rabbah. He was a third-generation \"amora\" who lived in Babylonia.\n\nRabbah was a kohen descended from Eli. He was a student of Rav Huna at Sura and of Judah bar Ezekiel at Pumbedita, and so distinguished himself as a student that Huna seldom decided a question of importance without consulting him. His brethren in Palestine were little pleased with his residence in Babylonia, and wrote to him to come to the Holy Land, where he would find a teacher in Rabbi Yochanan, since it would be far better for him, wise though he was, to have a guide than to rely on himself in his studies. Rabbah, however, seems not to have answered this urgent request, and apparently never left Babylonia.\n\nUpon the death of Judah ben Ezekiel, Rabbah succeeded as head of the academy (\"reish metivta\") of Pumbedita, and held the post until his death 22 years later. The academy achieved its height under his leadership and he attracted many new students to the academy. During the Kallah months, he is said to have attracted as many as 12,000 students.\n\nRabbah was hated by residents of Pumbedita for his criticism of their practice of fraud, but loved by his students.\n\nHe is also said to have lived in poverty, but little else is known about his private life. He was maligned by his detractors to the Persian king for leading and teaching bi-annual month-long study gatherings for over twelve thousand people, leading to their being absent at the time of tax collections. The king sent bailiffs to seize him; he fled from city to city and finally into a marsh, where his body was found in a thicket. According to Rabbi Sherira Gaon, he was denounced to the king for causing twelve thousand men to be idle during a lunar month in summer (\"Adar\") and a lunar month in winter (\"Elul\"). The Talmud records that after his death, he was eulogized for seven days.\n\nHis nephew was the great scholar Abaye (280–340) who, being an orphan, was raised by Rabbah. He was succeeded by his son, also called Rabbah. Both Rabbah and Abaye were destined to die in the prime of their lives as they were descendants of Eily the High Priest who was cursed that his descendants would die young. However, due to the fact that Rabbah studied Torah he merited to live to the age of 40. Whereas Abaye, who studied Torah and performed (extra) acts of kindness, lived to the age of 60.\n\nHe was a great scholar, renowned for his abilities to argue texts, resolve contradictions, and find applications, which gave him the nickname of \"oker harim\" (uprooter of mountains), as his studies exhibit the power of one who picks up mountains and grinds them against each other. He was also an exceptional teacher. He used to start every lecture with a joke or funny anecdote to get his students in a good mood. He would test the judgment of his audience, implying a mistaken halakha and waiting for his students to find the mistake.\n\nOnly about ten of Rabbah's aggadic teachings are recorded; He seem to have concentrated his attention on halakhah, which he endeavored to elucidate by interpreting the mishnaic decisions and the baraitot, and by determining the fundamental reasons for the various Torah and rabbinical laws and explaining the apparent contradictions contained in them. He often asks: \"Why did the Torah command this?\" \"Why did the sages forbid this?\" He did not confine his interest to the practical laws of the Mishnah, however, like his teacher R. Judah, but studied all six mishnaic orders, and was the leading authority in the obscure subjects of negaim and taharot.\n\nHe was not the author of Genesis Rabbah or the other midrashic works whose names end in \"Rabbah\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2262248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262248", "title": "Omar Abu Risha", "text": "Omar Abu Risha\n\nOmar Abu-Riche (, 10 April 1910 – 15 July 1990) was an influential Syrian poet known for his pioneering works.\n\nAbu-Riche was born into a wealthy literary family in Manbij, near Aleppo. He received his educational upbringing in Syria and continued his tertiary studies at the University of Damascus. He also studied at the American University in Beirut in 1931 and later read chemistry at the University of Manchester but returned to Syria in 1932. While initially a fan of Abbasid poetry, he later looked for more independent voices in poetry and considered Shakespeare's \"Venus and Adonis\" to be the greatest love poem ever written. His favorite poets were Charles Baudelaire and Edgar Allan Poe. \n\nHe wrote the poem, \"Khatam-ul-Hub\" (The End of Love) and produced literary works and attended to his duties as Librarian of Aleppo, Syria. In 1949, the Syrian government appointed him ambassador to Brazil. As a diplomat until 1964, he was ambassador to Argentina, Chile, India, Austria, and finally the United States.\n\nHis works included several volumes of poetry and poetic dramas.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262250", "title": "Biacore", "text": "Biacore\n\nBiacore is a life science products company, based in Sweden. In June 2006 GE Healthcare acquired Biacore for $390 million.\n\nBiacore specializes in measuring biomolecular interactions, including protein-protein interactions, small molecule/fragment-protein interactions, etc. Its technology is often used to measure not only binding affinities, but kinetic rate constants and thermodynamics as well. The technology is based on surface plasmon resonance (SPR), an optical phenomenon that enables detection of unlabeled interactants in real time. The SPR-based biosensors can be used in determination of active concentration as well as characterization of molecular interactions in terms of both affinity and chemical kinetics.\n\nBiacore was founded in 1984 under the name of Pharmacia Biosensor AB, by researchers from Pharmacia, Linköping Institute of Technology and the Swedish National Defence Research Institute (FOA, now renamed the Swedish Defence Research Agency or FOI). The first Biacore SPR instrument was commercially released in 1990. In 1996 the company changed its name to Biacore AB Corporation.\n\nA simple interaction experiment involves immobilizing one molecule of a binding pair on the sensor chip surface (\"ligand\", in Biacore parlance) and injecting a series of concentrations of its partner (\"analyte\") across the surface. Changes in the index of refraction at the surface where the binding interaction occurs are detected by the hardware and recorded as RU (resonance units) in the control software. Curves are generated from the RU trace and are evaluated by fitting algorithms which compare the raw data to well-defined binding models. These fits allow determination of a variety of thermodynamic constants, including the apparent affinity of the binding interaction. SPR is one of many methods for protein-protein and protein-ligand interaction assessment, see Methods to investigate protein–protein interactions.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262251", "title": "Fantastic Caverns", "text": "Fantastic Caverns\n\nFantastic Caverns is a show cave located in Springfield, Missouri. Fantastic Caverns is the only cave in North America to offer a completely ride-through tour, which lasts 55 minutes and is held in a Jeep-drawn tram. The trams drive along the path left behind by an ancient underground river. \n\nThe cavern was discovered by John Knox and his hunting dog in 1862. Knox did not want the cave to be exploited by the Union or Confederate governments as a possible source of saltpeter, so he kept the cave's existence quiet until 1867. Knox put an advertisement in the Springfield paper for someone to explore the cave, and it was first explored on February 14, 1867. On February 27, almost two weeks later, the Springfield Women's Athletic Club explored the cave. These twelve ladies are considered the first explorers of the cave, since they carved their names into the rock as graffiti and are mentioned in an article published in the Springfield Tri-Weekly Patriot newspaper. The cave was renamed \"Fantastic Caverns\" in the 1950s.\n\nThe caverns were used as a meeting place for the Ku Klux Klan, then as a speakeasy during Prohibition. The caverns also hosted music concerts during the 1950s and 1960s. The shows were broadcast on KGBX radio in the 1970s.\n\nThe temperature inside Fantastic Caverns is about 60 °F (15 °C) year-round. In the winter and fall, billboards advertise that the cave is a \"warm 60 degrees,\" while in the summer and spring, billboards advertise the caverns to be a \"cool 60 degrees.\" The cave hosts over 100,000 visitors a year.\n\nFantastic Caverns is 6 miles from Jefferson Avenue 562-foot Footbridge and near Ritter Springs Park.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262253", "title": "Greatest Hits Volume Three: Best of the Brother Years 1970–1986", "text": "Greatest Hits Volume Three: Best of the Brother Years 1970–1986\n\nGreatest Hits Volume Three: Best of the Brother Years 1970–1986 is a compilation album of songs by American rock band The Beach Boys, released in 2000 by Capitol Records. It was released several months after its predecessors, \"\" and \"\".\n\nTitled \"The Best of the Beach Boys: 1970–1986\" in England, it included three additional songs not issued on the US version: \"Tears in the Morning\", the disco remake of \"Here Comes the Night\" (from \"L.A. (Light Album)\"), and \"Sumahama\". The albums failed to chart in either the US or UK.\n"}
{"id": "2262255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262255", "title": "WKRN-TV", "text": "WKRN-TV\n\nWKRN-TV, virtual channel 2 (UHF digital channel 27), is an ABC-affiliated television station licensed to Nashville, Tennessee, United States. The station is owned by Nexstar Media Group. WKRN's studios are located on Murfreesboro Road (U.S. Routes 41 and 70S) on Nashville's southeast side, and its transmitter is located in Forest Hills, Tennessee.\n\nThe station first signed on the air on November 29, 1953, as WSIX-TV, broadcasting on VHF channel 8; it was the second television station in Nashville. The station was originally licensed to WSIX, Inc., which was owned by Louis and Jack Draughon, along with WSIX radio (980 AM, now WYFN). The call letters came from the 638 Tire Company in nearby Springfield, where the Draughon brothers had started WSIX in 1930; neither the radio nor the television stations have ever had the number six in their frequencies, which would explain it otherwise. Originally a CBS affiliate that shared the ABC affiliation with WSM-TV (channel 4, now WSMV), it became a full-time ABC affiliate after only one year when WLAC-TV (channel 5, now WTVF) signed on and took the CBS affiliation due to WLAC radio's long history as a CBS radio affiliate. During the late 1950s, the station was also briefly affiliated with the NTA Film Network.\n\nThe station's original studio facilities were located on Old Hickory Boulevard, south of Nashville at the station's transmitter site. In 1961, WSIX-AM-FM-TV moved to a new studio located at 441 Murfreesboro Road, where the television station remains located today. The current WKRN studio facility is where the Wilburn Brothers' television program was produced during the 1960s and 1970s (however, WSM-TV had the rights to air the show in the Nashville market).\n\nWSIX-TV, however, did not have much luck against WSM-TV and WLAC-TV. Part of the problem was a weak signal, as its transmitter was short-spaced to channel 8 in Atlanta – occupied first by WSB-TV (currently occupied by WGTV). WSIX-TV was also hampered by a weaker network affiliation (ABC was not truly competitive with CBS and NBC until well into the 1970s).\n\nThe Draughons sold the WSIX stations to General Electric in 1966. In 1973, GE agreed to a deal with Nashville's PBS member station, WDCN-TV (now WNPT), then on channel 2, to swap frequencies. GE participated in the channel trade because the analog channel 2 facility was better suited for a network affiliate as opposed to a non-commercial educational station. The swap occurred on December 11, 1973, at 9 p.m., in the middle of prime time programming, between that night's Movie of the Week, \"The Cat Creature\", and \"Marcus Welby, M.D.\". At the same time, even though General Electric still owned WSIX-AM-FM, WSIX-TV's call letters were changed to WNGE-TV (for Nashville General Electric). This was only the third facility swap in American television history.\n\nGeneral Electric pared down its broadcasting holdings during the early 1980s (possibly in preparation for its purchase of then-NBC parent company RCA in late 1985), selling WNGE-TV to Knight Ridder Newspapers in 1983. The new owners changed the calls on November 29 to the current WKRN-TV. Knight Ridder sold off all of its television stations in 1989, at which point Young Broadcasting bought the station (along with its sibling WTEN in Albany, New York). Merely by coincidence, the call letters reflect the former Young Broadcasting's flagship outlet, KRON-TV in San Francisco. \n\nOn June 6, 2013, Media General announced that it would acquire Young Broadcasting in an all-stock deal. The merger was completed on November 12, 2013, resulting in WKRN and its Knoxville sister station WATE-TV becoming sister stations of Johnson City-based WJHL-TV.\n\nHowever, less than two years after that merger was finalized, the station's ownership appeared as though it was once again put into flux, as on September 8, 2015, Media General announced that it would acquire the Meredith Corporation for $2.4 billion, with the combined group to be renamed Meredith Media General once the sale was finalized. Because Meredith already owned WSMV, and the two stations rank among the four highest-rated stations in the Nashville market in total day viewership, the companies would have been required to sell either WSMV or WKRN to comply with FCC ownership rules as well as recent changes to those rules regarding same-market television stations that restrict sharing agreements.\n\nThe overlap issue was later rendered moot as the deal collapsed, and on January 27, 2016, it was announced that the Nexstar Broadcasting Group would buy Media General for $4.6 billion. WKRN became part of \"Nexstar Media Group\", and along with its Tennessee siblings, became stablemates to fellow ABC affiliate WATN-TV and CW affiliate WLMT in Memphis. The sale was completed on January 17, 2017.\n\nOn October 31, 2016, WKRN introduced a refreshed news graphics and music package and station logo, retiring the \"Circle 2\", which the station had been using in some capacity since 1981.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\n\nWKRN shut down its analog signal over VHF channel 2 on June 12, 2009, the official date in which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 27. Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display the station's virtual channel as its former UHF analog channel 2.\n\nWKRN-DT2 is the Bounce TV-affiliated second digital subchannel of WKRN-TV, broadcasting in standard definition on UHF channel 27.2 (or virtual channel 2.2 via PSIP).\n\nWKRN launched the subchannel in 2008 as a local 24-hour weather channel for the Nashville area. It was branded on-air as the \"Nashville Weather Channel,\" but stylized as the \"Nashville WX Channel.\" The subchannel also simulcasted the main channel’s wall-to-wall severe weather coverage when a tornado warning was issued for any part of WKRN's coverage area. The Channel was somewhat of a locally oriented version of the AccuWeather channel, except that it implements a backward L bar for its screen orientation, with an information crawl on the bottom of the screen. It provided pre-recorded weather segments produced by the WKRN Weather Team, and it featured radar imagery, the current time, temperature, and precipitation count in the Downtown Nashville area. This subchannel was also ad-supported, for commercials are shown between a replay of the taped weather segments, and the next time they show the weather slides with music in the background. Like the digital weather channels of other stations formerly owned by Young Broadcasting, the channel is produced in-house with no outside assistance from any national services (such as The Local AccuWeather Channel) and is fully automated using the station's weather computers. This format was similar to that of WBAY-DT2, the local weather-oriented second subchannel of Green Bay, Wisconsin area ABC affiliate WBAY-TV, one of WKRN's sister stations. \n\nIn addition, some syndicated programming aired on this channel, most notably on Sunday mornings where E/I programming is offered through syndication, mainly including Canadian-imported syndicated show, \"Edgemont\". The syndicated version of \"Storm Stories\" was also shown on WKRN-DT2 on weeknights at 7 p.m. CT. Both \"Edgemont\" and \"Storm Stories\" were discontinued a month before WKRN-DT2 switched to the MeTV affiliation.\n\nIt previously shown Atlantic Coast Conference basketball and football games from Raycom Sports from 2012 until late August 2014, when MyNetworkTV affiliate WUXP took over those rights for the purpose to serve as a replacement for the syndicated Southeastern Conference football and basketball packages by ESPN Plus-produced SEC TV (those were previously provided by Jefferson-Pilot/Raycom Sports until 2009), which were discontinued because of the launch of the new cable-exclusive SEC Network.\n\nIn 2014, a Wikipedia user listed WKRN-DT2 as an affiliate of WeatherNation TV, but it never aired programming from that network. WZTV-DT2, the second subchannel of local Fox affiliate WZTV (channel 17), became a WeatherNation affiliate in November 2014. \n\nWKRN-DT2's programming was simulcast on WKRN-DT3, beginning on May 30, 2015, when the Live Well Network (which was previously broadcast on WKRN-DT3) ceased national distribution outside of ABC's owned-and-operated stations. This ended on December 30, 2015, when WKRN added Justice Network to the third subchannel.\n\nIt was reported that WKRN-DT2 would affiliate with MeTV, and did so at the stroke of midnight on February 1, 2016, replacing The Nashville WX Channel. MeTV was first carried as an affiliate on Low Powered Station WJDE-LD on their Main Channel of 31.1 from 2012 until 2016. WJDE also carried all of MeTV's programming full time, since that station did not broadcast any local programming what so ever. Since WJDE signed on in 1986, it carried the full-time satellite feed of the Home Shopping Network, before it switched to MeTV in 2012. At the same time on February 1, 2016, when WKRN-DT2 switched from the Nashville WX Channel to carry MeTV, WJDE-LD's main channel switched from MeTV to Heroes & Icons.\n\nUntil January 1, 2018, WKRN-DT2 was the default MeTV affiliate for viewers in at least the southern half of the Bowling Green, Kentucky market area who can receive the signal. In spite of WKRN-DT2 being the closest MeTV outlet, Louisville CBS affiliate WLKY, along with its main channel, was carried on the South Central Rural Telephone Cooperative cable system, which serves cable subscribers in the Caveland area of Barren, Metcalfe, and Hart counties. This ended on January 1, 2018, when Bowling Green-area NBC primary/CBS subchannel-only affiliate WNKY launched their third subchannel to carry the entire MeTV schedule.\n\nIn September 2019, WKRN started running advertisements on WKRN-DT2 stating that the subchannel would switch to Bounce TV on September 23, with MeTV moving to WJFB (channel 44.1). A WKRN spokesperson stated the decision was made \"at the corporate level.\" WKRN-DT2 officially switched from MeTV to Bounce TV at the stroke of midnight on September 23, 2019. Bounce TV continued to be seen on low-powered station WLLC-LP 42.3 until December 2, when it was replaced with AMGTV.\n\nOn August 26, 2012, WKRN began carrying the Live Well Network on its third digital subchannel. Originally announced to launch on July 18, 2012, LWN's carriage on the new subchannel was part of an agreement announced in January 2012, between Young Broadcasting and Live Well Network in which the network will be carried as a digital multicast service on Young-owned stations in seven markets. Live Well Network was scheduled to be shut down in January 2015, but ABC decided to continue broadcasting the Live Well Network for an estimated two to three months beyond the reported January 15, 2015, shutdown date. On May 29, 2015, Comcast reported that they had been informed by Media General that as of May 30, 2015, Media General would discontinue carrying Live Well Network on their channels, including WKRN. On May 30, 2015, WKRN began broadcasting the Nashville WX Channel on WKRN-DT3, the same feed as they carry on WKRN-DT2. On December 30, 2015, WKRN began broadcasting The Justice Network on WKRN-DT3.\n\nOn the afternoon of Friday, October 27, 2017, WKRN added the action oriented Network aimed towards Men, Grit to a New Subchannel of 2.4, thus marking the return of the Network to the Nashville Market. Grit was previously seen on WNAB's third subchannel of 58.3 until June 1, 2017, when Grit was replaced with Charge!, a competitor network to Grit, which also focuses on action and drama, and is owned and operated by Sinclair Broadcast Group, who also operates WNAB.\n\nSyndicated programming on WKRN includes \"Wheel of Fortune\", \"Dr. Phil\", \"The Doctors\", \"Live with Kelly and Ryan\" and \"The Mel Robbins Show\", among others. The Nashville market is one of the few that carries \"Wheel of Fortune\" on a separate station because \"Jeopardy!\" (as a broadcast oddity) airs on Fox affiliate WZTV.\n\nThe station has an agreement with the Tennessee Titans to broadcast \"Bridgestone Titans on 2\", the team's coach's show that originally aired from 8 to 9 p.m. on Tuesdays, preempting ABC programming in that timeslot during the NFL season (which featured low-rated and critically derided sitcoms for the majority of the 2000s). The show now airs Mondays and Saturdays at 6:30 p.m., preempting \"Wheel of Fortune\" in that timeslot during football season. It moved to that timeslot after viewer criticism during the early episodes first season of the 2009 series \"V\" where it was pushed to late Tuesday evenings one week, then to a day-and-date airing on WKRN-DT2 the next. WKRN's then-sister station in Green Bay, WBAY-TV, also faced the same situation with a locally produced football program covering the Green Bay Packers, but after a week moved that program to air before prime time to accommodate \"V\" (later affiliation agreements eventually made pre-empting programming in this manner impossible outside breaking news and severe weather situations).\n\nWKRN is the Nashville home and the flagship station of the Tennessee Titans Preseason Television Network, which broadcasts \"Titans Preseason Football\" during August and sometimes the very early parts of September. These games often prompt WKRN to broadcast the night's ABC prime time programming on a tape delay in the overnight hours of the following morning. WKRN also simulcasts ESPN's \"Monday Night Football\" any time the Tennessee Titans are involved in a Monday night match-up during the regular season.\n\nLike all other ABC affiliates that were owned by Young Broadcasting, WKRN preempted ABC's broadcast of the movie \"Saving Private Ryan\" in 2004.\n\nWKRN broadcasts 38 hours of locally produced newscasts each week (with six hours each weekday and four hours each on Saturdays and Sundays). In addition, the station produces a half-hour public affairs program, \"This Week with Bob Mueller\", which airs Sundays at 11:00 p.m. WKRN is the only Big Three network affiliate in Nashville that does not run an hour-long newscast at 6 p.m., although its early evening newscasts on weekdays begin at 4 p.m., including \"ABC World News Tonight\" at 5:30 p.m.\n\nBefore the advent of satellite technology in the 1980s, the Vanderbilt Television News Archive taped all ABC News broadcasts from the airwaves of WSIX/WNGE/WKRN. Some of the recordings prior to that time include local cut-ins to ABC coverage of national elections, which represent the only preservations of the station's news broadcasts of that time.\n\nOn October 11, 2011, WKRN began broadcasting its local newscasts in high definition, becoming the last Nashville television station to make the upgrade. This included a brand new news set that was built in a separate studio that was based on a design shared by all Young stations that have upgraded to HD, replacing the \"working newsroom\" set that had been used for the newscasts since 1986.\n\nOn March 29, 2014, WKRN added an additional hour of newscasts on both Saturday and Sunday mornings beginning at 5 a.m.\n\nWKRN is available to every Middle Tennessee cable provider, including Comcast Xfinity channels 2 (SD) and 1002 (HD). Those channel allocations also apply to AT&T U-verse. WKRN is also available on Charter Spectrum channels 2 (SD) and 702 (HD).\n\nIn Clarksville, it is available to subscribers of CDE Lightband Cable Channels 2 (SD) and 902 (HD). WKRN is also available on Mediacom and Charter in the Hopkinsville, Kentucky area.\n\nDue to proximity to the Bowling Green, Kentucky, area, WKRN's over-the-air (OTA) signal can be picked up in some areas of the Bowling Green media market, the home territory to fellow ABC affiliate WBKO (channel 13). WKRN's signal can reach as far north as an area along the Green River in areas just north of Bowling Green. It is for that reason that WKRN ends up competing with WBKO for viewing allegiances. WKRN was previously available on CATV in Glasgow, the Barren County seat, via the Glasgow Electric Plant Board. This ended during the 2000s as more of their customers watched WBKO than WKRN; this was also due to part of controversial issues that occurred concerning the carriage of both stations. WKRN was permanently dropped from the Glasgow EPB’s channel lineup in 2003 because WBKO wanted to be the sole ABC affiliate to be carried.\nHowever, WHAS, the ABC affiliate in Louisville, Kentucky, is still available on that system as a backup ABC affiliate if one or the other pre-empts network programming for severe weather coverage, but carriage of both stations on the system is subject to the FCC's syndication exclusivity rules.\n\nWKRN is also available on cable television in the Fayetteville, Tennessee, area in Lincoln County, the only Middle Tennessee county that is considered to be in the Huntsville, Alabama media market. Fayetteville Public Utilities customers can view the station on channels 2 (SD) and 243 (HD).\n\nFrom 1957 through the 1970s and 1980s, WKRN, along with WSMV, WTVF, and eventually independent station WZTV (now a Fox affiliate), was also available on CATV systems in the Huntsville media market, including TelePrompter (later Group W Cable, now Comcast) and Knology (now WOW!). They were eventually dropped as more national cable channels were launched throughout the mid- and late 1980s.\n\n \n \n"}
{"id": "2262260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262260", "title": "Meadows, North Carolina", "text": "Meadows, North Carolina\n\nMeadows is an unincorporated community in Stokes County, North Carolina, United States, about four miles southeast of the county seat, Danbury, on North Carolina State Highway 8.\n"}
{"id": "2262267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262267", "title": "IRB racing", "text": "IRB racing\n\nInflatable Rescue Boat (IRB) racing, is a surf sport in which surf lifesaving club teams race Inflatable Rescue Boats. IRB racing competitions are held in various countries, including Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, the United Kingdom, the United States, Japan, Germany, and France.\n\nIRB racing consists of a number of simulated rescue events, with the aim of improving lifesaver skills through competition. Competition rules vary from nation to nation; however, the International Life Saving Federation adopted the Australian rules for the 2008 IRB World Championship.\n\nSince 2001, the rescue events have included the basic Surf Rescue, the Mass Rescue, the Tube Rescue, a Team Relay Rescue, and the Assembly Rescue. Each rescue is simulated by a team representing their particular club. For most events, the team consists of an IRB driver, a crew person, and a patient, though this is not the case with regard to the Team Relay, and Mass Rescue events (see below).\n\nDepending on club and team participation, events are usually run in heats, semifinals, and final rounds. Team placement at each stage determines which teams are eliminated and which move to the next round. Competition takes place at carnivals that are spread out over the off-season between the months of April and July.\n\nSoldiers Beach Surf Life Saving Club (SLSC) is regarded as the first club to develop the idea of racing IRBs under simulated rescue scenarios to assist drivers and crews in enhancing their skills. Starting in the early 1970s, the events were continuously refined until 1976, when Surf Life Saving Australia endorsed a set of IRB competition guidelines.\nIRB racing and competition flourished and continued to grow in popularity with surf clubs from across Australia.\n\nClubs in each Australian state have competed against each other at regularly scheduled carnivals throughout the season in preparation for the annually held state titles. Clubs that do well in state titles submit teams for competition in national titles or \"Aussies\".\n\nDue to mounting safety concerns relating to IRB racing, competition was suspended for a period of two years, beginning at the end of the 2000/2001 season. During this time the rules applied to racing IRBs in competition were thoroughly scrutinised. Eventually, a new format for racing was presented for trial during the 2003/2004 season. The new rules required patient head protection, plus changes to procedures for starting and finishing races, as well as craft launching.\n\nPreviously, a driver and crew person started all races (minus the Assembly) behind a starting line approximately 5–10 meters from the shore line. The craft was positioned at the water's edge, nose facing away from the sea. Upon firing of the starter's gun, the driver and crew person would run up to the boat and swing it around, dragging it to an appropriate depth for launching.\n\nAs a result of the Safety Review, the rules were modified to call for the craft to be placed at the water's edge, nose facing out to sea. Both the driver and crew person start the race standing outside of the boat, but in contact with the craft. The driver must not be in contact with the motor in any way. After the starter's gun fires, the driver and crew person may proceed to drag the craft to an appropriate depth before the driver jumps in and starts the motor to begin the race.\n\nPatients must be of a minimum age of 15 years and possess the Bronze Medallion and crew person's certificate.\n\nIn its simplest form, 'scrutineering' is a way of standardising craft performance in order to make the competition fair and equally matched.\nScrutineering involves inspecting and checking the craft, the motor, and accessories (including fuel type) for compliance to the specifications outlined in competition guidelines.\n\nIt is carried out by competition officials a few days prior to competition. No team may enter a craft into competition without its first passing scrutineering. Officials look for modifications to the motor, confirm correct fuel type, and check that all craft carry the minimum list of IRB accessories.\n\nMarshalling is performed approximately 10 minutes prior to an event's commencing, to ensure all participating team members (driver, crew person and patient) are present and accounted for. Any team or member failing to show up to marshalling before a cut-off time are disqualified from the race. During marshalling, teams are allocated their own lane and designated buoy colour.\n\nAfter marshalling, all patients are taken to a craft termed the duty boat, which transports them to the buoys in their respective lanes.\n\nSurf Rescue is a competitive event requiring only one driver, one crew person and the patient. This race simulates the most basic form of rescue: to pick up a single patient in trouble.\n\nThe race starts with the boat positioned on the shore line, nose facing out to sea. As viewed from the beach, the patient is placed to the right of a buoy positioned approximately 140 metres directly out from the shore. On initial firing of the starter's gun, driver and crew proceed to drag the craft to an appropriate depth. The crew person holds the boat steady, allowing the driver to jump in and start the motor. The moment the motor fires up, the crew person jumps inside the boat, grabs the rope handle, and positions himself or herself ready for the patient pick up. The boat will now be in full operation and heading toward the patient as fast as possible. Depending on surf conditions, the driver and crew person may need to negotiate breaking waves, in which case the crew person must clamber as far forward on the bow pontoon as possible to ensure the boat does not flip but punches through the wave instead.\n\nOnce the craft is within 10 metres of the patient, the driver will back the speed off slightly while the crew person leans out across the port side pontoon, preparing his or her left arm to form a solid hook. In preparation for pick-up, the patient links both hands in a loop above his or her head. Precision positioning by the driver is required to ensure the craft comes up just next to the patient so that the crew person may hook the patient and pull him or her into the boat. The driver then turns sharply around the buoy and the entire team prepares for a quick dash back to the shore by ducking down into the boat as far as possible to reduce their wind resistance. During the return to shore, the driver will usually travel at top speed, popping over breaking waves and driving down the face of spilling waves. As the craft hits the beach, the driver must 'kill', or stop, the motor, exit the boat and make a final dash to the finish line to complete the race.\n\nThe Surf Rescue is performed in both male and female categories and is the most anticipated and fiercely competitive event of the entire carnival.\n\nEach teams is composed of two patients and two crews (one driver and one crew member per crew). The patient is positioned on the seaward side of a designated buoy. Both crews are positioned on the beach side of the crew start/finish line adjacent to their beach position indicator.\n\nOn the starter's signal, the first crew launches the IRB and proceeds through the surf to the patient. On the inside of the turn (as the IRB rounds the buoy), the crew member jumps overboard on the seaward side of the buoy. The driver completes the buoy turn and returns to shore alone.\n\nMeanwhile, the crew member of the second crew moves into the water.\nThe first driver stays in contact and in control of the IRB until the second crew member secures and takes control of the IRB.\nThe first driver runs up the beach and crosses the crew start/finish line to tag the second driver who proceeds to the IRB.\n\nThe second crew re-launches the IRB, precedes through the surf to pick up the patient and the first crew member, rounds their buoy, and returns to shore to finish the event.\n\nMass Rescue is a competitive event that simulates a rescue in which more than one patient is in trouble. Hence, it requires more than one trip back to the buoy to complete the rescue.\n\nSpecifically, the Mass Rescue involves picking up two different patients, in separate trips to the buoy, with a simulated driver changeover in between. It proceeds as follows. Before the rescue begins, the team's two patients are transported to the buoy, with one positioned in front of it and the other positioned behind. The first leg of the Mass Rescue is identical to the Surf Rescue race, except that the IRB travels around the buoy in an anti-clockwise pattern and the first patient to be picked up is the one located behind the buoy.\n\nAfter the first patient is picked up, the team returns to shore, the driver turns off the motor and puts it into neutral. The driver then exits the IRB, runs up the beach, around a turning post, and then back to the boat for the second leg. During the driver's run, the rescued patient exits the boat, and the crew person turns the IRB around to face the surf once again. At the same time, the patient still in the water moves from a position in front of the buoy to a position behind it, and prepares for pick-up.\n\nAs soon as the driver returns to the boat, he or she enters the boat and the second leg proceeds as the first. Once the second patient has been successfully picked up and the IRB has returned to shore, the driver cuts the motor, places it into neutral, exits the boat and runs over the finish line to complete the race.\n\nThe Mass Rescue is an excellent test of a crew's strength and endurance.\n\nTube Rescue is a competitive event that simulates the act of rescuing a patient with the use of a flexible foam rescue tube.\n\nIt consists of a driver, crew person, and patient. In this race, two buoys are positioned 25 metres apart in the water. The patient is placed at the buoy farthest away from the shore. The race starts in the same way as the Surf Rescue. However, when the craft reaches the first buoy, the driver circles it anti-clockwise. As the craft passes around the right side of the buoy, the crew person, with the lanyard of the rescue tube looped over his body, disembarks into the water. The crew person then proceeds to swim to the second buoy, trailing the rescue tube behind.\n\nUpon approaching the second buoy, the crew person pulls the tube in and passes it to the waiting patient. The patient assists the crew person by wrapping the tube around the front of his or her chest, then leaning forward so the crew person may clip the two ends of the tube together. Once this is done, the crew person swims around the buoy and heads back towards the first buoy and the awaiting driver and craft. The patient must now lean back and kick as hard as possible to assist the crew person. Meanwhile, the driver waits on the shore side of the first buoy. When patient and crew person reach the IRB, the driver assists the patient into the boat, as the tube must remain on the patient's body until he or she is in the craft. The crew person will climb into the craft and when both are in the boat, the driver must commence an anti-clockwise turn of the buoy before proceeding back to the shore. The finish is much the same as for the Surf Rescue.\n\nThe Tube Rescue is a true test of the crew person's swimming fitness and strength. This race is very dynamic, as it does not always come down to the fastest craft or first team off the start line; often the outcome is determined by which crew person is the stronger swimmer.\n\nIRB Relay is a competitive event that requires two IRB teams from each individual club, each consisting of a driver, a crew person and a patient. One is designated the primary team, and the other, the secondary team. Set-up is similar to the Surf Rescue and the primary team starts the race in the same way as the Surf Rescue, racing out to pick up the first patient and then returning to the beach.\n\nAs soon as the primary team reaches the beach and the driver exits the boat, the secondary crew person is allowed to run out to the boat, turn it around, and drag it out to starting depth. The two crews must have control of the boat at all times.\n\nWhile the secondary-team crew person prepares the IRB for its second run, the driver from the primary team sprints up the beach to tag the driver of the secondary team, who then sprints down the beach, enters the boat and then proceeds to pick up the second patient.\n\nThe race is complete when the secondary team has successfully returned to the beach, the driver has exited the boat and has run across the finish line.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262268", "title": "Shabba Doo", "text": "Shabba Doo\n\nAdolfo Gutierrez Quiñones or Adolfo Gordon Quiñones (born May 11, 1955), known professionally as Shabba-Doo, is an American actor, dancer, and choreographer of African American and Puerto Rican descent. Quiñones is perhaps best known for his role as Orlando \"Ozone\" in the 1984 breakdancing film \"Breakin'\" and its sequel, \"\".\nQuiñones was born and raised in Chicago, Illinois; his father was Puerto Rican, and his mother was African American. His mother raised him as a single parent from the age of three. He has a younger sister, Fawn Quiñones, who was also a dancer, and frequently featured on the musical variety television program Soul Train.\n\nAs a member of The Original Lockers along with Don \"Campbellock\" Campbell, Fred \"Rerun\" Berry and Toni Basil, Quiñones became one of the innovators of the dance style commonly known as locking. His best-known role was as \"Ozone\" in the 1984 hit cult film, \"Breakin'\", as well as in its sequel, \"\". Quiñones also appeared in \"Rave - Dancing to a Different Beat\", which he also directed. He made guest appearances on TV shows, including \"The Super Mario Bros. Super Show!\", \"Married... with Children\", \"Miami Vice\", \"What's Happening!!\", \"Saturday Night Live\" and \"Lawrence Leung's Choose Your Own Adventure\". Quiñones is writing \"A Breakin’ Uprising.\" Besides acting and dancing work in film and television, Quiñones has served as a choreographer to many singers, such as Lionel Richie, Madonna, and Luther Vandross. He was a primary dancer and main choreographer for Madonna's \"Who's That Girl?\" Tour in 1987. He served as choreographer for Jamie Kennedy's MTV sitcom, \"Blowin' Up\". He choreographed Three Six Mafia's performance on the 78th Academy Awards; the group won the Oscar for best original song for their song \"It's Hard Out Here for a Pimp\". He was featured in the music video for Chaka Khan's 1984 song \"I Feel for You\". \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262269", "title": "Rechberg", "text": "Rechberg\n\n\"For the mountain, see Rechberg (mountain). For the village, see Rechberg (Klettgau)\"\n\nRechberg was the name of a noble comital family in Swabia during the Holy Roman Empire period. As a mediatized house (mediatized by Württemberg in 1806), the family belonged to high nobility.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262271", "title": "Al Trautwig", "text": "Al Trautwig\n\nAlan Trautwig (born February 26, 1956) is a sports commentator with the MSG Network, ABC, NBC, NBC Sports Network, and USA Network. He does the pre-game and post-game shows for the New York Knicks and New York Rangers, as well as fill-in play-by-play for both teams.\n\nTrautwig was a stick-boy for the New York Islanders in their early days in the NHL and a ball boy for the New York Nets when they played in the ABA. Both teams used the Nassau Coliseum in Uniondale, New York for their home games. He graduated from H. Frank Carey Junior-Senior High School, in Franklin Square, NY. As a 22-year-old recent college graduate, Trautwig called New York Apollo soccer games on WBAU 90.3 FM, a student-run radio station on Long Island.\n\nIn the 1980s, Trautwig hosted USA Network's coverage of the National Hockey League; one off-beat feature that he did was to interview a water fountain. He also occasionally would do the sponsor plugs for WWF shows that would air on the USA Network in the mid-'80s. He occasionally guest hosts the \"NHL on Versus\" studio program \"Hockey Central\". He also anchored several MISL games from 1978 to 1992.\n\nTrautwig was one of the original hosts for Classic Sports Network when it was founded in 1996.\n\nThe 2000 New York Sportscaster of the Year, Trautwig has covered the last eight Olympic games, and has won New York Sports Emmys for his coverage of the Yankees, Knicks, and Rangers. From 1991–2001, Al was host of the New York Yankees' pre- and post-game shows on MSG Network, and also was in the booth for a few innings per game. In 2006, he hosted the new MSG show called \"Al Trautwig's MSG Vault\", which featured vintage and sometimes discovered lost footage of the New York Knicks and New York Rangers from the 1960s, 1970s, and 1980s.\n\nIn addition to his current duties, at the beginning of the 2006 football season Trautwig became a radio host as well, hosting the radio version of NBC's \"Football Night in America\" for Westwood One, which co-produces the show (called NBC NFL Sunday) with the network. However, Trautwig left the show in the middle of the season.\n\nHe also hosts NBC's coverage of the Ford Ironman World Championship, Foster Grant Ironman World Championship 70.3 and ING New York City Marathon.\n\nHe was a television pit reporter alongside Jim McKay for ABC Sports' coverage of the 1986-1987 Indianapolis 500.\n\nHe has co-anchored coverage of the Tour de France (from 2004 to 2007 on Versus (formerly OLN) and in the 1980s for ABC), the Olympics, and NBC's coverage of the Arena Football League. Despite his years of experience as a broadcaster, he was sometimes criticized by cycling fans, for his occasionally uninformed commentary, and his tendency to compare the Tour to various mainstream sports he covers.\n\nFrom 2005–2008, he also co-anchored USA Network's coverage of the US Open tennis tournament. Trautwig also had a cameo in the movie \"Cool Runnings\" as an announcer for the bobsled competition. He now co-anchors the US Open's live feed during the tournament.\n\nSince 2000, Trautwig has taken over the spot long covered by John Tesh of hosting U.S. national and international gymnastics competitions, including the 2000, 2004, 2008, 2012, and 2016 Olympic games. Trautwig's co-hosts include former Olympic gold medalist Tim Daggett, former Canadian champion gymnast Elfi Schlegel, three-time Olympian John Roethlisberger and 2008 Olympic champion Nastia Liukin.\n\nTrautwig has stated that, at the urging of NBC producers, his gymnastics commentary focuses on the personal stories of the gymnasts. During the 2008 Beijing Olympics, he described a gymnast's pre-Olympics injury as \"like having a tear in your wedding dress right before you walk down the aisle.\" His commentary has resulted in some in the gymnastics community criticizing Trautwig long before the Biles controversy at the 2016 Rio Olympics, mainly by die-hard fans of the sport who feel that Trautwig serves only to perpetuate the stereotypes of women's gymnastics.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262273", "title": "Mindkiller", "text": "Mindkiller\n\nMindkiller is a 1982 science fiction novel by American writer Spider Robinson. The novel, set in the late 1980s (re-edited later to begin in 2006), explores the social implications of technologies to manipulate the brain, beginning with wireheading, the use of electric current to stimulate the pleasure center of the brain in order to achieve a narcotic high.\n\nThe novel follows three central characters: Karen Scholz, a young woman who has attempted suicide by permanent wireheading, the constant use of which overrides desires for food and drink; Norman Kent, a college professor, whose life is turned into a quest when his sister is abducted by a powerful authority; and Joe Templeton, a high-tech burglar, who has lost his memory after an accident during wartime.\n\nThe novel incorporates as its second chapter a slightly modified version of his short story \"God Is an Iron\" (first published in the May 1979 issue of Omni), a social commentary on the nature of addiction and addictive personalities built on wireheading.\n\nThe novel is unusual in its use of point of view, in a fashion similar to that of Robinson's mentor Robert A. Heinlein's novel \"The Number of the Beast\".\n\nAn independent sequel, \"Time Pressure\", is set in 1974 and concerns the later discovery of a method of limited time travel by the protagonists of \"Mindkiller\", though this connection may not be obvious to the casual reader until late in the novel. Baen Books has published these two novels, along with a third book in the series, \"Lifehouse\", as an omnibus volume under the title \"The Lifehouse Trilogy\".\n"}
{"id": "2262276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262276", "title": "Realm of New Zealand", "text": "Realm of New Zealand\n\nThe Realm of New Zealand consists of the entire area (or realm) in which the monarch of New Zealand functions as head of state. The Realm of New Zealand is not a federation; it is a collection of states and territories united under its monarch. New Zealand is an independent and sovereign state. It has one Antarctic territorial claim (the Ross Dependency), one dependent territory (Tokelau), and two associated states (the Cook Islands and Niue).\n\nThe Ross Dependency has no permanent inhabitants, while Tokelau, the Cook Islands and Niue have indigenous populations. The United Nations formally classifies Tokelau as a non-self-governing territory; the Cook Islands and Niue are internally self-governing, with New Zealand retaining responsibility for defence and for most foreign affairs. The governor-general of New Zealand represents the monarch throughout the Realm of New Zealand, though the Cook Islands have an additional Queen's Representative.\n\nThe monarch of New Zealand, represented by the governor-general of New Zealand, is the head of state throughout the Realm of New Zealand. The New Zealand monarchy is unitary throughout all jurisdictions in the realm, with the headship of state being a part of all equally. The 1983 Letters Patent Constituting the Office of Governor-General of New Zealand define the exact scope of the realm.\n\nThe Pacific islands of the Cook Islands and Niue became New Zealand's first colonies in 1901 and then protectorates. From 1965 the Cook Islands became self-governing, as did Niue from 1974. Tokelau came under New Zealand control in 1925 and remains a non-self-governing territory.\n\nThe Ross Dependency comprises that sector of the Antarctic continent between 160° east and 150° west longitude, together with the islands lying between those degrees of longitude and south of latitude 60° south. The British (imperial) government took possession of this territory in 1923 and entrusted it to the administration of New Zealand. Neither Russia nor the United States recognises this claim, and the matter remains unresolved (along with all other Antarctic claims) by the Antarctic Treaty, which serves to mostly smooth over these differences. The area is uninhabited, apart from scientific bases.\n\nNew Zealand citizenship law treats all parts of the Realm equally, so most people born in New Zealand, the Cook Islands, Niue, Tokelau and the Ross Dependency before 2006 are New Zealand citizens. Further conditions apply for those born from 2006 onwards.\n\nA governor-general represents the head of state—Elizabeth II, in her capacity as Queen of New Zealand—in the area of the realm. Essentially, governors-general take on all the dignities and reserve powers of the head of state. Dame Patsy Reddy was appointed to assume the position on 14 September 2016.\n\nBoth the Cook Islands and Niue are self-governing states in free association with New Zealand. The details of their free association arrangement are contained in several documents, such as their respective constitutions, the 1983 Exchange of Letters between the governments of New Zealand and the Cook Islands, and the 2001 Joint Centenary Declaration. As such, the New Zealand Parliament is not empowered to unilaterally pass legislation in respect of these states. In foreign affairs and defence issues New Zealand acts on behalf of these countries, but only with their advice and consent.\n\nAs the governor-general is resident in New Zealand, the Cook Islands Constitution provides for the distinct position of Queen's representative. This individual is not subordinate to the governor-general and acts as the local representative of the Queen in right of New Zealand. Since 2013, Tom Marsters is the Queen's representative to the Cook Islands. (Marsters was preceded by Sir Frederick Tutu Goodwin.) This arrangement effectively allows for the de facto independent actions of internal and most external areas of governance.\n\nAccording to Niue's Constitution of 1974, the governor-general of New Zealand acts as the Queen's representative, and exercises the \"executive authority vested in the Crown\".\n\nIn the Cook Islands and Niue, the New Zealand high commissioner is the diplomatic representative from New Zealand. John Carter (since 2011) is the New Zealand High Commissioner to the Cook Islands, and Ross Ardern (since 2014) is the New Zealand High Commissioner to Niue.\n\nDespite their close relationship to New Zealand, both the Cook Islands and Niue maintain some diplomatic relations in their own name. Both countries maintain High Commissions in New Zealand and have New Zealand High Commissioners resident in their capitals. In Commonwealth practice, High Commissioners represent their governments, not the Head of State.\n\nNew Zealand is a sovereign state. At the United Nations, the country is identified in the General Assembly as simply \"New Zealand\", not as the Realm of New Zealand.\n\nNew Zealand proper consists of the following island groups:\n\nTokelau has a lesser degree of self-government than the Cook Islands and Niue, and had been moving toward free association status. New Zealand's representative in Tokelau is the Administrator of Tokelau and has the power to overturn rules passed by the General Fono (parliament). In referenda conducted in 2006 and 2007 by New Zealand at the United Nations' request, the people of Tokelau failed to reach the two-thirds majority necessary to attain a system of governance with equal powers to that of Niue and the Cook Islands.\n\nWithin New Zealand there exists some support for a New Zealand republic. Should New Zealand become a republic it would retain the Ross Dependency and Tokelau as dependent territories and the Realm of New Zealand would continue to exist without New Zealand, the Ross Dependency and Tokelau. This would not be a legal hurdle to a New Zealand republic as such, and both the Cook Islands and Niue would retain their free association with New Zealand. Rights to abode and citizenship, codified in New Zealand legislation by the Citizenship Act 1977, would not change.\n\nHowever, a New Zealand republic would present the issue of continued allegiance to the Sovereign to the Cook Islands and Niue. Thus, a number of options for the future of the Realm of New Zealand exist should New Zealand become a republic with the Cook Islands and Niue either:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262277", "title": "Salaam Bombay!", "text": "Salaam Bombay!\n\nSalaam Bombay! is a 1988 Indian Hindi-language crime drama film, directed, co-written and co-produced by Mira Nair. The screenwriter was Nair's creative collaborator Sooni Taraporevala. This was the first feature film directed by Nair. The film depicts the daily lives of children living in slums in Bombay (now Mumbai), India's largest city, as well as organized crime scenes in India. It stars Shafiq Syed, Raghuvir Yadav, Anita Kanwar, Nana Patekar, Hansa Vithal, Chanda Sharma in the lead roles.\n\nNair's inspiration for the film came from the spirit of Bombay's street children and how they lived. Production began in early 1988, and the film was co-financed by the National Film Development Corporation of India. After being released worldwide on 6 October 1988, the film grossed over at the box office against a production budget of .\n\nNominated for the Academy Award for Best International Feature Film at the 61st Academy Awards, the film was India's second film submission to be so nominated. After its initial release on 11 May 1988 at the 1988 Cannes Film Festival, \"Salaam Bombay!\" achieved significant critical acclaim. It won the Caméra d'Or and Audience award at the Cannes Film Festival. The film won the National Film Award for Best Feature Film in Hindi, National Board of Review Award for Best Foreign Language Film and three awards at the Montreal World Film Festival. The film was among the list of \"The Best 1,000 Movies Ever Made\" by \"The New York Times\".\n\nBefore the start of the film, Krishna has set fire to his bullying elder brother's motor-bike. This has landed him in big trouble with his mother. She has taken him to the nearby Apollo Circus and told him that he can only come home when he earns 500 rupees to pay for the damaged bike. Krishna agrees and works for the circus.\n\nThe film begins as the circus is packing up to move on. His boss asks him to run an errand, but when Krishna returns, he finds that the circus has left. Alone, with nowhere to turn, and without the money to repay his mother, he travels to the nearest big city, Bombay. As soon as he arrives, he is robbed of his few possessions. He follows the thieves, befriends them, and ends up in the city's notorious red-light area of Falkland Road, near the Grant Road Railway Station.\n\nOne of the thieves, Chillum, a drug pusher and addict, helps Krishna to get a job at the Grant Road Tea Stall, and becomes a mentor of sorts to Krishna. Baba, a local drug dealer, employs people like Chillum who are addicted to his drugs. His wife, Rekha, is also a prostitute and they have a little daughter, Manju. Rekha is annoyed that she has to raise her daughter in such an environment. Baba earlier promised to start a new life elsewhere, but it is a promise which Baba cannot, or will not, fulfill.\n\nKrishna gets a new name, \"Chaipau\", and learns to live with it. His goal is still to get the money he needs to return home to his mother, but he soon finds out that saving money in his new surroundings is next to impossible. To make matters worse, he has a crush on a young girl named Sola Saal, who has been recently sold to the brothel. He sets fire to her room and attempts to escape with her, but the two are caught. The fire causes Krishna to get a severe beating, while Sola Saal, who is considered valuable property since she is still a virgin, denies starting the fire and tearfully tries to resist her enslavement. The madame of the house asks Baba to \"tame her,\" which Baba agrees to do.\n\nMeanwhile, Krishna works odd jobs to feed himself and look after Chillum, who can't live without drugs, especially after Chillum is sacked by Baba after a disastrous interview with a foreign journalist. Eventually, one of these odd jobs costs Krishna his job at the tea stall. To get more money, Krishna and his pals rob an elderly Parsi man by breaking into his house in broad daylight. Krishna eventually finds out that the money he had saved had been stolen by Chillum who had used it to buy drugs, which he had overdosed on and died.\n\nOne night while returning home from work with their friends, Krishna and Manju are apprehended by the police and taken to a juvenile home. Eventually, Krishna escapes and goes back to his world. He finds a new recruit in Baba's drug business has taken Chillum's place and name. Krishna meets Sola Saal and tries to convince her to run away with him. She reveals that she is charmed by Baba and no longer interested in Krishna; she is driven away to service her first 'client'. Meanwhile, Rekha is told that the authorities will not release their daughter, because the mother is a prostitute. An angry Rekha decides to leave Baba, but Baba beats her in retaliation. She is saved by the timely intervention of Krishna who, in a fit of rage, kills Baba and attempts to run away with Rekha, but they become separated in a parade honoring Ganesh. The film ends with a slow zoom in to Krishna's dejected face, alone and being thrown back to the same reality he started out with in the film.\n\nNair records that the initial inspiration for the film came from the spirit of Bombay's street children. Her ideas developed when she researched the lives of the children with her creative partner Sooni Taraporevala. From the beginning, they decided that real street children would play in the film since the combination of childhood and knowledge in their faces would be hard to find among professional child actors.\n\nNair was also inspired to make the film after watching Hector Babenco's drama \"Pixote\" (1970). She said, \"on the first day of shooting, I received the news that the child actor who played the character of \"Pixote\" was shot dead in the street. After this incident, I was more determined to make \"Salaam Bombay!\", and decided to share the film's dividends with street children if we could.\" After making four documentaries, \"Salaam Bombay!\" was Nair's first full-length feature film.\n\nMost of the film \"Salaam Bombay!\" was shot on Falkland Road, a red light district in Kamathipura, Bombay. The child actors in the film were real street children. The cast received drama training at a workshop in Bombay before they appeared in the film. A room was rented near the Grant Road railway station for rehearsals, where about 130 children rehearsed on the first day. Later, before appearing in the film, a group of 24 street children trained in a workshop, where they were given music, dance and acting training. Gradually the stories of the city of Bombay, their parents, sex, trafficking, drug dealing, gangs and their profiteering were learned from them. They were reunited with their families even before the film was shot. They were paid to pay for their medical treatment and work on the film, and some of that money was left as a fixed deposit. Irrfan Khan played the role of a letter writer in a two-minute scene in the film, which was his first appearance in the film.\n\nAfter its release, director Nair established an organization called the Salaam Baalak Trust in 1989 to rehabilitate the children who appeared in the film. Dinaz Stafford, a child psychologist, worked with the children after the film. The Salaam Baalak Trust now lends support to street children in Bombay, Delhi and Bhubaneshwar. Shafiq Sayed, who played Krishna in the film, is currently living as an auto rickshaw driver in Bangalore.\n\nInitially, Cadrage, Channel Four Films, Doordarshan, La Sept Cinéma, Mirabai Films and the National Film Development Corporation of India paid for the production of the film. Several producers co-produced the film with Nair, with Gabriel Auer from France as the executive producer, Michael Nozik from the UK and Anil Tejani from India and Cherry Rogers as the co-executive producers. Also in co-production were Jane Balfour and co-producer Mitch Epstein.\n\n\"Salaam Bombay!: Music from the Original Motion Picture Soundtrack\", of the film was composed, performed and directed by L. Subramaniam, which was released on cassette and CD versions in 1986 from DRG Music Publishing. The song \"Mera Naam Chin Chin Choo\" written by Qamar Jalalabadi, composed by O. P. Nayyar and sung by Geeta Dutt for the 1958 film \"Howrah Bridge\" included in the film soundtrack. Also in a scene at the movie theatre, Sridevi's dance to the song \"Hawa Hawaii\" sung by Kavita Krishnamurti from the 1987 film \"Mr. India\" was performed.\n\nBefore commercial release, the film premiered at the Directors' Fortnight at the Cannes Film Festival in May 1988. It was later screened at the Toronto International Film Festival on 13 September in 1988.\n\nIn 1988, the film was released on 24 August in France, on September in India, on 7 October at the 26th New York Film Festival, on 20 December in Italy, and on 22 December in Belgium.\n\nFollowing year, the film was released on 13 January in Denmark, 2 February in Netherlands , on 10 February in Finland, on 27 April in West Germany, on 29 June in Australia, on 27 July in Argentina, on 24 September at the Cinefest Sudbury International Film Festival in Canada and 3 November in Sweden.\n\nIn 1990, the film was released on 26 January in East Germany, on 10 March in Japan, and on 5 April in Hungary. Following year, the film was released on 18 January in Portugal.\n\n\"Salaam Bombay!\" earned in the United States and Canada against a production budget of . \n\nIn France, the film sold 633,899 tickets, the average ticket price in 1988 was 34 francs, which is equivalent to 21,552,566francs (). In Germany, the film sold 258,728 tickets, the average ticket price in 1989 was 9.5DM, which is equivalent to 2,457,916DM (). The average exchange rate in 1988 was 1 US dollar equal to 1.585 Deutsche Mark, which is worth . \n\nThe film grossed in a total of in overseas markets and becoming the highest-grossing Indian films in overseas markets at that time. The average exchange rate in 1988 was 1 US dollar equal to , which is equivalent to .\n\nThe film was re-released in France on 12 December 2001 and 7 January 2015. In 2005, it was also screened at the New Horizons Film Festival in Poland on 23 July. The film was re-released in Indian theatres in March 2013. In 2015, at the BFI London Film Festival the film screened on 9 October, and on 18 October at the Tallgrass Film Festival in the United States. The film was screened on 16 November 2016 at the Five Flavours Film Festival in Poland.\n\n\"Salaam Bombay!\" mainly received positive reviews from critics, viewers and film connoisseurs, who commented on the cultural, historical and social impact of the film. On the film review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 93% based on 29 reviews, with a rating average of 7.61/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"\"Salaam Bombay!\" life in a part of the world that many viewers never saw - but with enough compassion and grace to make it happen.\" At Metacritic, which assigns a weighted mean rating to reviews, the film has a score of 8 based on 4 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\".\n\nRoger Ebert wrote, \"The history of the making of \"Salaam Bombay!\" is almost as interesting as the film itself.\" English writer Hilary Mantel commented, \"A warm and lively film, made by Mira Nair with only a handful of professional actors.\" Ted Shen of \"Chicago Reader\" wrote that, \"like Hector Babenco's \"Pixote\" the film is unsparingly gritty, but with a woman's tenderness it also grants the characters an occasional moment of grace.\" Richard Corliss of \"Time\" magazine wrote that, \"\"Salaam Bombay!\" deserves a broad audience, not just to open American eyes to plights of hunger and homelessness abroad, but to open American minds to the vitality of a cinema without rim shots and happy endings.\" American film critic Dave Kehr stated, \"Much to Nair`s credit, she exploits neither the exoticism of her locale (there are no tour-guide, look-at-this flourishes) nor the misery of her subjects (suffer they may, but they do not demand pity).\" American film critic David Sterritt stated, \"the movie is terrifically well-acted and beautifully filmed, however, marking an auspicious feature-film debut for Indian-American director Mira Nair.\" Peter Travers commented that \"poetic, powerful and disturbing, \"Salaam Bombay!\" transcends language and cultural barriers. Emanuel Levy, an American film critic, author, and professor who thought that \"\"Salaam Bombay!\" depicted the harrowing experience of one boy among Bombay's thieves, prostitutes and drug dealers. Inspired by a host of classic children pictures, including Vittorio De Sica's \"Sciuscià\" (1946), Hector Babenco's \"Pixote\", and the early work of her compatriot Satyajit Ray, the film drew its intensity and colour from its locale, the slums of Bombay.\" Vincent Canby says, \"for a film about such hopelessness, \"Salaam Bombay!\" is surprisingly cheering.\" Christopher Null a film critic, columnist and former blogger for Yahoo! stated, \"with Salaam, Nair proves an early ability with a camera and at getting performances out of obviously inexperienced actors, but her writing talents are much sketchier.\" Rita Kempley of \"Washington Post\" wrote, \"Nair's film has been compared to Hector Babenco's chilling \"Pixote,\" a Brazilian look at a 10-year-old street criminal, but hers is a more compassionate, though equally troubling, portrait.\" On movie review site Rediff.com critic Sukanya Verma commented, \"Salaam Bombay!\" \"still brilliant in 25 years.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2262282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262282", "title": "Microflex", "text": "Microflex\n\nMicroflex Corporation, founded in 1987 in San Francisco, is a leading brand for disposable gloves. In 1995, its headquarters was relocated to Reno, Nevada. Microflex products are used across a broad variety of industries, including Healthcare, Laboratory, Dental, Automotive, Emergency Medical Services and Food Service.\n"}
{"id": "2262284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262284", "title": "Moores Springs, North Carolina", "text": "Moores Springs, North Carolina\n\nMoores Springs is an unincorporated community in Stokes County, North Carolina, United States, approximately five miles west-northwest of Danbury, near Hanging Rock State Park. It is becoming well known for its mountain biking trails and access to the Dan River.\n\nThe Matthew Moore House was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1974.\n"}
{"id": "2262290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262290", "title": "NGC 1569", "text": "NGC 1569\n\nThe NGC 1569 is a dwarf irregular galaxy in Camelopardalis. The galaxy is relatively nearby. Consequently, the Hubble Space Telescope can easily resolve the stars within the galaxy. The distance to the galaxy was previously believed to be only 2.4 Mpc (7.8 Mly). However, in 2008 scientists studying images from Hubble calculated the galaxy's distance at nearly 11 million light-years away, about 4 million light-years farther than previous thought, meaning it is a member of the IC 342 group of galaxies.\n\nNGC 1569 is smaller than the Small Magellanic Cloud, but brighter than the latter or the Large Magellanic Cloud\n\nNGC 1569 is characterized by a large starburst. It has formed stars at a rate 100 times greater than that of the Milky Way during the last 100 million years. It contains two prominent super star clusters with different histories. \nBoth clusters have experienced episodic star formation. Super star\ncluster A, located in the northwest of the galaxy and actually formed of two close clusters (NGC 1569 A1 and NGC 1569 A2), contains young stars \n(including Wolf-Rayet stars) that formed less than 5 million years ago (in NGC 1569 A1) as well as older red stars (in NGC 1569 A2).\nSuper star cluster B, located near the center of the galaxy, contains an older stellar population of red giants and red supergiants. Both of these star clusters are thought to have masses equivalent to the masses of the globular clusters in the Milky Way (approximately (6-7) × 10 solar masses). Numerous smaller star clusters, some of them having masses similar to those of small globular clusters or R136 in the Large Magellanic Cloud, with relatively young ages (between 2 million years and 1 billion years) have also been identified. These results, along with the results from other dwarf galaxies such as the Large Magellanic Cloud and NGC 1705, demonstrate that star formation in dwarf galaxies does not occur continuously but instead occurs in a series of short, nearly instantaneous bursts.\n\nThe numerous supernovae produced in the galaxy as well as the strong stellar winds of its stars have produced filaments and bubbles of ionized hydrogen with respective sizes of up to 3,700 and 380 light years that shine excited by the light of the young stars contained within them and that are conspicuous on images taken with large telescopes.\n\nThe NGC 1569 starburst is believed to have been triggered by interactions with other galaxies of the IC 342 group, in particular a nearby cloud of neutral hydrogen. A 2013 study suggested the presence of tidal tails linking this galaxy with IC 342 and the dwarf galaxy UGCA 92 (see below) whose nature, however, is unclear and may actually be structures within our galaxy\n\nThe spectrum of NGC 1569 is blueshifted. This means that the galaxy is moving towards the Earth. In contrast, the spectra of most other galaxies are redshifted because of the expansion of the universe.\n\nThe dwarf irregular galaxy UGCA 92 is often assumed to be a companion of NGC 1569; however, its relationship to the starburst the latter is experiencing is unclear, with some authors suggesting UGCA 92 has not started it and others suggesting it has interacted with NGC 1569, being connected with it by a tidal tail and several filaments of neutral hydrogen; however, it is still unclear if those structures are associated with them or actually within the Milky Way, being unrelated with those two galaxies.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262293", "title": "Rheometer", "text": "Rheometer\n\nA rheometer is a laboratory device used to measure the way in which a liquid, suspension or slurry flows in response to applied forces. It is used for those fluids which cannot be defined by a single value of viscosity and therefore require more parameters to be set and measured than is the case for a viscometer. It measures the rheology of the fluid.\n\nThere are two distinctively different types of \"rheometers\". Rheometers that control the applied shear stress or shear strain are called rotational or shear rheometers, whereas rheometers that apply extensional stress or extensional strain are extensional rheometers.\nRotational or shear type rheometers are usually designed as either a native strain-controlled instrument (control and apply a user-defined shear strain which can then measure the resulting shear stress) or a native stress-controlled instrument (control and apply a user-defined shear stress and measure the resulting shear strain).\n\nThe word rheometer comes from the Greek, and means a device for measuring main flow. In the 19th century it was commonly used for devices to measure electric current, until the word was supplanted by galvanometer and ammeter. It was also used for the measurement of flow of liquids, in medical practice (flow of blood) and in civil engineering (flow of water). This latter use persisted to the second half of the 20th century in some areas. Following the coining of the term rheology the word came to be applied to instruments for measuring the character rather than quantity of flow, and the other meanings are obsolete. (Principal Source: Oxford English Dictionary) The principle and working of rheometers is described in several texts.\n\nFour basic shearing planes can be defined according to their geometry,\n\nThe various types of shear rheometers then use one or a combination of these geometries.\n\nOne example of a linear shear rheometer is the Goodyear linear skin rheometer, which is used to test cosmetic cream formulations, and for medical research purposes to quantify the elastic properties of tissue.\nThe device works by attaching a linear probe to the surface of the tissue under test, a controlled cyclical force is applied, and the resultant shear force measured using a load cell. Displacement is measured using an LVDT. Thus the basic stress–strain parameters are captured and analysed to derive the dynamic spring rate of the tissue under tests.\n\nLiquid is forced through a tube of constant cross-section and precisely known dimensions under conditions of laminar flow. Either the flow-rate or the pressure drop are fixed and the other measured. Knowing the dimensions, the flow-rate can be converted into a value for the shear rate and the pressure drop into a value for the shear stress. Varying the pressure or flow allows a flow curve to be determined. When a relatively small amount of fluid is available for rheometric characterization, a microfluidic rheometer with embedded pressure sensors can be used to measure pressure drop for a controlled flow rate.\n\nCapillary rheometers are especially advantageous for characterization of therapeutic protein solutions since it determines the ability to be syringed. Additionally, there is an inverse relationship between the rheometry and solution stability, as well as thermodynamic interactions.\n\nA dynamic shear rheometer, commonly known as DSR is used for research and development as well as for quality control in the manufacturing of a wide range of materials. Dynamic shear rheometers have been used since 1993 when Superpave was used for characterising and understanding high temperature rheological properties of asphalt binders in both the molten and solid state and is fundamental in order to formulate the chemistry and predict the end-use performance of these materials.\n\nThe liquid is placed within the annulus of one cylinder inside another. One of the cylinders is rotated at a set speed. This determines the shear rate inside the annulus. The liquid tends to drag the other cylinder round, and the force it exerts on that cylinders (torque) is measured, which can be converted to a shear stress.\nOne version of this is the Fann V-G Viscometer, which runs at two speeds, (300 and 600 rpm) and therefore only gives two points on the flow curve. This is sufficient to define a Bingham plastic model which used to be widely used in the oil industry for determining the flow character of drilling fluids. In recent years rheometers that spin at 600, 300, 200, 100, 6 & 3 RPM have been used. This allows for more complex fluids models such as Herschel–Bulkley to be used.\nSome models allow the speed to be continuously increased and decreased in a programmed fashion, which allows the measurement of time-dependent properties.\n\nThe liquid is placed on horizontal plate and a shallow cone placed into it. The angle between the surface of the cone and the plate is around 1–2 degrees but can vary depending on the types of tests being run. Typically the plate is rotated and the torque on the cone measured. A well-known version of this instrument is the Weissenberg rheogoniometer, in which the movement of the cone is resisted by a thin piece of metal which twists—known as a torsion bar. The known response of the torsion bar and the degree of twist give the shear stress, while the rotational speed and cone dimensions give the shear rate. In principle the Weissenberg rheogoniometer is an absolute method of measurement providing it is accurately set up. Other instruments operating on this principle may be easier to use but require calibration with a known fluid.\nCone and plate rheometers can also be operated in an oscillating mode to measure elastic properties, or in combined rotational and oscillating modes.\n\nThe development of extensional rheometers has proceeded more slowly than shear rheometers, due to the challenges associated with generating a homogeneous extensional flow. Firstly, interactions of the test fluid or melt with solid interfaces will result in a component of shear flow, which will compromise the results. Secondly, the strain history of all the material elements must be controlled and known. Thirdly, the strain rates and strain levels must be high enough to stretch the polymeric chains beyond their normal radius of gyration, requiring instrumentation with a large range of deformation rates and a large travel distance.\n\nCommercially available extensional rheometers have been segregated according to their applicability to viscosity ranges. Materials with a viscosity range from approximately 0.01 to 1 Pa.s. (most polymer solutions) are best characterized with capillary breakup rheometers, opposed jet devices, or contraction flow systems. Materials with a viscosity range from approximately 1 to 1000 Pa.s. are used in filament stretching rheometers. Materials with a high viscosity >1000 Pa.s., such as polymer melts, are best characterized by constant-length devices.\n\nExtensional rheometry is commonly performed on materials that are subjected to a tensile deformation. This type of deformation can occur during processing, such as injection molding, fiber spinning, extrusion, blow-molding, and coating flows. It can also occur during use, such as decohesion of adhesives, pumping of hand soaps, and handling of liquid food products.\n\nA list of currently and previously marketed commercially available extensional rheometers is shown in the table below.\n\nRheotens is a fiber spinning rheometer, suitable for polymeric melts. The material is pumped from an upstream tube, and a set of wheels elongates the strand. A force transducer mounted on one of the wheels measures the resultant extensional force. Because of the pre-shear induced as the fluid is transported through the upstream tube, a true extensional viscosity is difficult to obtain. However, the Rheotens is useful to compare the extensional flow properties of a homologous set of materials.\n\nThe CaBER is a capillary breakup rheometer. A small quantity of material is placed between plates, which are rapidly stretched to a fixed level of strain. The midpoint diameter is monitored as a function of time as the fluid filament necks and breaks up under the combined forces of surface tension, gravity, and viscoelasticity. The extensional viscosity can be extracted from the data as a function of strain and strain rate. This system is useful for low viscosity fluids, inks, paints, adhesives, and biological fluids.\n\nThe FiSER (filament stretching extensional rheometer) is based on the works by Sridhar et al. and Anna et al. In this instrument, a set of linear motors drive a fluid filament apart at an exponentially increasing velocity while measuring force and diameter as a function of time and position. By deforming at an exponentially increasing rate, a constant strain rate can be achieved in the samples (barring endplate flow limitations). This system can monitor the strain-dependent extensional viscosity, as well as stress decay following flow cessation. A detailed presentation on the various uses of filament stretching rheometry can be found on the MIT web site.\n\nThe Sentmanat extensional rheometer (SER) is actually a fixture that can be field installed on shear rheometers. A film of polymer is wound on two rotating drums, which apply constant or variable strain rate extensional deformation on the polymer film. The stress is determined from the torque exerted by the drums.\n\nAcoustic rheometers employ a piezo-electric crystal that can easily launch a successive wave of extensions and contractions into the fluid. This non-contact method applies an oscillating extensional stress. Acoustic rheometers measure the sound speed and attenuation of ultrasound for a set of frequencies in the megahertz range. Sound speed is a measure of system elasticity. It can be converted into fluid compressibility. Attenuation is a measure of viscous properties. It can be converted into viscous longitudinal modulus. In the case of a Newtonian liquid, attenuation yields information on the volume viscosity. This type of rheometer works at much higher frequencies than others. It is suitable for studying effects with much shorter relaxation times than any other rheometer.\n\nA simpler version of the filament stretching rheometer, the falling plate rheometer sandwiches liquid between two solid surfaces. The top plate is fixed, and bottom plate falls under the influence of gravity, drawing out a string of the liquid.\n\nOther systems involve liquid going through an orifice, expanding from a capillary, or sucked up from a surface into a column by a vacuum. A pressurized capillary rheometer can be used to design thermal treatments of fluid food. This instrumentation could help prevent over and under-processing of fluid food because extrapolation to high temperatures would not be necessary. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262294", "title": "Explorers' Monument", "text": "Explorers' Monument\n\nThe Explorers' Monument is a monument located in Esplanade Park in Fremantle, Western Australia. It is approximately six metres high, and consists of a head and shoulders statue of Maitland Brown, sitting on granite pedestals on a granite base inset with plaques honouring three explorers, Frederick Panter, James Harding and William Goldwyer. The monument was commissioned by George Julius Brockman, and the statue of Brown was sculpted by Pietro Porcelli. Lady Forrest unveiled the work in February 1913. Due to controversy about its presentation of settler/Aboriginal disputes it was altered in the 1990s.\n\nPanter, Harding and Goldwyer were killed by Aboriginal people in 1864, while exploring in the Kimberley region of Western Australia. When the men failed to return, Brown was commissioned to lead the La Grange expedition, which searched for the whereabouts of the missing men. Brown's search party found the men dead, having been speared to death, two of them evidently in their sleep. Shortly afterwards, a number of Aborigines were killed by Brown's party in a highly controversial incident that was reported by Brown as a battle brought on by an Aboriginal ambush, but which has often since been characterised as a punitive massacre of Aborigines by white settlers.\n\nOne of the original plaques on the pedestal reads as follows:\nThe Aboriginal communities have long held that the Explorer's Monument was a racist work that presented a biased interpretation of the events at La Grange. In 1994, an attempt was made to redress this perceived bias by placing an additional plaque on the monument. The new plaque commemorates all Aboriginal people who died \"during the invasion of their country\", and reads as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262305", "title": "British Official Armour Specification", "text": "British Official Armour Specification\n\nThe British Official Armour Specification is a set of standards for armour construction for armoured fighting vehicles, including tanks, during the late Interwar Period and into World War II.\n\nStandards applicable to British tanks of World War II are as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262307", "title": "Quaker Gap, North Carolina", "text": "Quaker Gap, North Carolina\n\nQuaker Gap is an unincorporated community in Stokes County, North Carolina, United States, approximately five miles southwest of county seat Danbury, near Hanging Rock State Park.\n"}
{"id": "2262309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262309", "title": "Jamaican patty", "text": "Jamaican patty\n\nA Jamaican patty is a pastry that contains various fillings and spices baked inside a flaky shell, often tinted golden yellow with an egg yolk mixture or turmeric. It is made like a turnover, but is more savoury and filled with meat. As its name suggests, it is commonly found in Jamaica, and is also eaten in other areas of the Caribbean, such as the Caribbean coast of Nicaragua and Costa Rica. It is traditionally filled with seasoned ground beef, but fillings can include chicken, pork, lamb, vegetables, shrimp, lobster, fish, soy, ackee, mixed vegetables or cheese. In Jamaica, the patty is often eaten as a full meal, especially when paired with coco bread. It can also be made as bite-sized portions called cocktail patties. Among the Jamaican diaspora in the UK, the pastry is more like that of a suet crust, and often made with margarine or butter, which provides the flaky pastry, and curry powder containing turmeric, which provides the yellow colour.\n\nThe beef patty is a product of colonialism and migration developed after the introduction of the Cornish pasty in the Caribbean, mixed with cumin and curry seasonings (of Indian workers) and cayenne pepper (from African workers) who settled in Jamaica. \"The firecracker taste of the Scotch bonnet, a hot pepper indigenous to Jamaica, sealed the flavour.\"\n\nJamaicans brought recipes for the patties northward in the 1960s and 1970s when many went to the United States as hospital orderlies, home health aides and nurses. The patties were then found in restaurants in areas of the New York Metropolitan Area with high West Indian populations. The patties are equally popular in UK cities with large West Indian populations, such as Birmingham, Manchester and London. Their popularity is spreading in the UK and they are becoming available in many mainstream outlets. They are also popular in Toronto, Montreal, Washington, DC, and numerous other areas throughout the American northeast and Canadian Great Lakes regions; in many of those areas, they are available in grocery stores, delis, corner stores, and convenience stores.In recent years, the Jamaican meat patty has been pre-made and frozen for mass selling in Britain, Canada, and the United States. In many areas in Canada and in the United States, Jamaican beef patties are now typically available at pizza and convenience food restaurants, as well as supermarkets.\n"}
{"id": "2262310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262310", "title": "Royal Dano", "text": "Royal Dano\n\nRoyal Edward Dano Sr. (November 16, 1922 – May 15, 1994) was an American film and television character actor.\n\nDano was born in New York City, the son of Mary Josephine (née O'Connor), an Irish immigrant, and Caleb Edward Dano, a printer for newspapers.\n\nHe reportedly left home at the age of twelve and at various intervals lived in Florida, Texas, and California. After reaching an agreement with his father, he agreed to continue his education on the condition that he be allowed to travel. Dano served in the United States Army during World War II where he attained the rank of Sergeant. He was a Freemason. \n\nAn early acting effort saw Dano cast as McSnoyd the leprechaun in the stage show \"Barnaby and Mr. O'Malley\", based on the comic strip by Crockett Johnson. McSnoyd appears to the audience only as a blinking light on a large mushroom, so only his voice is heard. However, at the conclusion of the show Dano joined the rest of the cast, wearing a leprechaun costume.\n\nDano is remembered for his supporting roles in a number of 1950s western and mystery films. The chance for the breakout role of a lifetime escaped him in the theatrical release of \"The Red Badge of Courage\". Dano, cast as The Tattered Man, delivered such a disturbing performance in his death scene, according to director John Huston, that the initial test audience left the theater in droves, e.g., \"I've never seen so many people get up and leave the theater...they liked no part of it.\" The death scene was lent a human touch by Dano, and in 1951, war-weary Americans rejected it (Huston: \"...[the audience rejection] was a pretty sickening event.\"). \"Red Badge\" was immediately recut, and the death scene was removed. It is long believed, and as early as Huston commenting in an interview in 1972, the scene has been lost (\"I doubt very much, whether the scene still exists.\"). Dano was also cast in \"Mr. Lincoln\", a five-part TV episode appearing in 1952–53 on \"Omnibus\"; in keeping with a Civil War theme, Dano portrayed Lincoln himself.\n\nHe often worked with Anthony Mann and James Stewart. He played Elijah in John Huston's film version of \"Moby Dick\", intoning to Richard Basehart as Ishmael, \"At sea one day, you'll smell land where there'll be no land, and on that day, Ahab will go to his grave, but he'll rise again within the hour. He will rise and beckon! Then all – all save one – shall follow!\"\n\nIn \"The 7 Faces of Dr. Lao\" (1964), he portrayed a brutal henchman. In the black comedy \"The Trouble with Harry\", directed by Alfred Hitchcock, he had a small but pivotal role as the officious Deputy Sheriff. Over the years, Dano made many television appearances, often in bizarre, macabre roles such as Richard Boone's \"Have Gun – Will Travel\" and the NBC legal drama \"Justice\" starring Dane Clark and Gary Merrill.\n\nOn December 2, 1957, Dano appeared as Wilbur English, a fearful man who kills a fellow gang member to collect the reward in the episode \"Cheyenne Express\" of John Payne's NBC western series, \"The Restless Gun.\" Ultimately, his cowardice causes Wilbur's own accidental death. Earlier that year, he had played \"Sageman\", a wizened mystic, in the 1957 \"Father Knows Best\" episode \"Shoot for the Moon\". In the MGM Technicolor widescreen religious epic \"King of Kings\", Dano in 1961 played the role of Simon Peter.\n\nIn 1960, Dano guest starred on David McLean's NBC summer western series, \"Tate\". That same year, he portrayed Lucas Frome in the episode \"Black Harvest\" on Don Durant's CBS western, \"Johnny Ringo\". In 1962, he guest starred on the CBS anthology series, \"The Lloyd Bridges Show\". Dano also appeared on \"The Virginian\" in five separate appearances from 1962–66 in a variety of character roles, one of the most memorable being \"Faraway MacPhail\". In 1962 Dano appeared as escaped convict Dan Molder on \"The Virginian\" in the episode titled \"The Brazen Bell.\" In the 1965–1966 season, he guest starred on ABC's western series \"The Legend of Jesse James\". He played an ex-con who became Northfork's pastor, and \"Honest Abe\" in 1961 episodes of \"The Rifleman\", an ABC Western series. He appeared on the series five times. Dano was also a frequent guest star on \"Gunsmoke\", with a total of thirteen appearances. In season 1 (1955–56) of \"Gunsmoke,\" he acted in the title role of \"Obie Tater\" (No. 5 in the series) about a group of outlaws who try to force Obie, an old prospector, to give up his gold. (Newcomb, Horace (2010). \"Gunsmoke.\" The Museum of Broadcast Communications. Retrieved March 21, 2010.) In 1962, he played Monty Fox, a prospector, in the episode \"Incident at Quivira\" on CBS's \"Rawhide\".\n\nDano was the voice of Abraham Lincoln for Walt Disney's \"Great Moments with Mr. Lincoln\" attraction, first presented at the 1964 World's Fair. Disney personally selected Dano, because he felt the actor came closest to the historical descriptions of Lincoln's voice. \"Great Moments with Mr. Lincoln\" was moved to Disneyland in 1965, and Dano's vocals continued to be a part of the attraction until 2001. In 1971, his voice was also used for a revised Lincoln speech in the new \"Hall Of Presidents\" attraction at Magic Kingdom in Florida, which ran to 1993. In 2009, Dano's vocals were returned to \"Great Moments with Mr. Lincoln\" at Disneyland in an updated version of the show.\n\nDano was cast as the historical Henderson Luelling in the 1965 episode, \"The Traveling Trees,\" on the syndicated anthology series, \"Death Valley Days\", hosted by Ronald Reagan. In the story line, Luelling, against the advice of his wagon master, takes the Hastings Cutoff en route to Oregon, where he intends to plant an apple orchard. Tim McIntire appeared as a young reformed outlaw, Ben Fraser, with Robert Yuro as Ben's older brother, Spencer Fraser. Dano also appeared in four other \"Death Valley Days\" episodes, including another 1965 segment, \"The Trouble with Taxes,\" in the role of Aaron Winters, founder of the Death Valley borax strike.\n\nDano played a coroner in \"Electra Glide in Blue\" (1973), who gets into a loud shouting match with Robert Blake's character. With no spoken dialogue (but singing the airman's version of the Navy Hymn), Dano was the saddened, unnamed preacher in \"The Right Stuff\". Dano was the father of the Daltons in the 1979 TV movie \"The Last Ride of the Dalton Gang\". He is remembered for his comedic performance as the undead gold prospector, Gramps, in the horror/suspense/comedy/Aztec adventure \"\", and as Uncle Ned, a carnival attraction magician, in 1988's \"Ghoulies II\". His final roles include Wrenchmuller in 1990's \"Spaced Invaders\" and Judge Clinton Sternwood in the TV series \"Twin Peaks\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2262315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262315", "title": "KXST", "text": "KXST\n\nKXST is a radio station licensed to North Las Vegas, Nevada, broadcasting to the Las Vegas, Nevada area on 1140 AM. The station is owned by Entercom, and broadcasts a sports talk format as part of the CBS Sports Radio network. The station's studios are located in the unincorporated Clark County area of Spring Valley, while its transmitter is near Nellis Air Force Base.\n\nKXST (AM 1140) is not licensed by the FCC to broadcast in the HD (digital) format. KXST can also be heard on 107.5 FM HD3 (KXTE).\n\nIn the past, KXST ran a variety of formats, including adult contemporary in the 1970s and mid-1980s as KMJJ, heavy metal \"The Crusher\" from 1987 to 1990, and then an AM simulcast of KLUC. In 1993, the station switched to a tourist information service branded as KXNO \"Casino Radio\", which carried a loop of advertising for shows occurring in the city. In 1996, the station was acquired by American Radio Systems, and flipped to sports talk radio as KSFN \"The Fan\", featuring play-by-play of UNLV Rebels college basketball, the Arizona Diamondbacks, and the Oakland Raiders. The format was low-rated, and the station failed to register on Arbitron ratings. In 1999, KSFN flipped to an oldies format branded as \"Crusin' Oldies\", with a focus on music from the late-1950s and early 1960s, targeted primarily to the region's baby boomer demographic.\n\nIn 2001, KSFN flipped to talk radio as \"Hot Talk 1140\", with a lineup featuring programs such as Tom Leykis, Phil Hendrie, and Opie & Anthony. In January 2005, the station re-branded as \"Spike 1140 AM\", a brand extension of the then co-owned, male-oriented cable channel Spike. The station added sports programming, including an affiliation with Sporting News Radio.\n\nOn April 14, 2008, KSFN returned to an all-sports format, dropping Leykis, and not picking up the Mike O'Meara Show after the retirement of Don Geronimo from the Don and Mike Show. At the same time, the station added Dan Patrick and expanded programming from Sporting News Radio while retaining Opie & Anthony and the Dodgers. The new format also included local personalities Casey Freelove and Corey Olson hosting \"Freelove and Olson\" weeknights 7-9pm and Saturdays 1-4pm until November 2008. The station also aired programming from Sporting News Radio. Beginning in August 2008, KSFN also gained the rights to be the official station for USC Trojans football in Las Vegas and the carrier of the Sports USA Radio Network NFL doubleheader.\n\nOn March 2, 2009, the station changed its call letters to KYDZ and flipped to a children's radio format branded as \"Kydz Radio\", focusing on teen pop and other songs oriented towards tweens. On January 2, 2013, KYDZ returned to sports talk as an owned-and-operated outlet of the newly established CBS Sports Radio network.\n\nOn February 2, 2017, CBS Radio announced it would merge with Entercom. The merger was approved on November 9, 2017, and was consummated on the 17th.\n\nIn August 2017, a reporter from CBS television affiliate KLAS-TV obtained an internal e-mail that instructed all of CBS's radio stations in Las Vegas, including KXST, to not cover or otherwise acknowledge the city's new National Hockey League team, the Vegas Golden Knights, on any platform, in retaliation for having been outbid by competitor KRLV for rights to be the team's flagship radio station. Following the reports, CBS Radio Las Vegas senior vice president Tony Perlongo apologized to the team and told the \"Washington Post\" that he had reversed the policy, stating that it was an \"error in judgement on our part\", and that CBS Radio would \"cover the team, first and foremost on Sports Radio 1140 and on our music and news/talk stations as it makes sense for those formats and audiences.\"\n\nIn April of 2018, KXST became the official Las Vegas affiliate of the Los Angeles Dodgers baseball network. \n\nIn addition to paid programming, KXST introduced its first new live and local sports programming in several years in April 2018 with Las Vegas' first and only radio programming focusing on the Las Vegas Raiders - Silver and Black Today. The two-hour show, hosted by Scott Gulbransen, covers the NFL team 12 months a year and focuses on Allegiant Stadium construction news, and preparations for the team's move to Nevada. In addition, Saturday Sports Beat, hosted by veteran broadcaster Tony Cordasco, was introduced in the summer of 2018. Saturday Sports Beat focuses on all local Las Vegas sports including the Vegas Golden Knights, WNBA's Las Vegas Aces, Las Vegas Aviators, UNLV and other sports.\n"}
{"id": "2262324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262324", "title": "Nethanel ben Isaiah", "text": "Nethanel ben Isaiah\n\nNethanel ben Isaiah (14th century) was a Yemenite Jewish rabbi, Biblical commentator and poet of the fourteenth century. He is best known as the author of a homiletic commentary on the Torah entitled \"Nur al-Zulm wa-Mashbah al-Hikm,\" translated into Hebrew as \"Sefer Me'or ha-Afelah\" ().\n\nThe first notice of this work was given by Jacob Saphir, who saw a manuscript of it at Hirbah, a small town in Yemen, in 1863. But the beginning of the manuscript was missing, and Saphir's statement that the author's name was Isaiah and that the title was \"Al-Nur wal-Zulm\" depends only upon hearsay. Two other manuscripts, one in Berlin and one in the Bodleian Library, bear the author's name, Nethanel ben Isaiah, and the full title of the work, \"Nur al-Zulm wa-Mashbah al-Hikm wa-Ikhraj al-Ma'ani fi al-Wujud Ba'd al'Adm.\" Alexander Kohut published a monograph on this work, giving some extracts, under the title \"Light of Shade and Lamp of Wisdom\" (New York, 1894). This title is given by Kohut as the translation of the Arabic title, though \"Light out of Darkness\" would be a more fitting translation, since Nethanel's introduction shows that his object was to comment on the obscure passages so as to make sure that their meanings should not escape the student.\n\nNethanel began his work on the 15th of Tammuz, 1640 of the Seleucidan era (June 23, 1328). Its references to Al-Yemen, San‘a’, and Aden make it appear probable that he wrote it in Yemen, although Steinschneider doubts this. It is written in a mixture of Arabic and Hebrew, and the nature of the work is more midrashic than exegetical. Nethanel quotes both Talmudim and the Targumim, but he is chiefly influenced by the Midrash Rabbah. Of the post-Talmudic authors, he mentions (besides the Geonim and Masoretes) Ibn Janah, Nathan ben Jehiel (under the designation of \"the author of the \"Arukh\"), and especially Maimonides, who was the paramount authority among the Yemenites and from whom he merely copied long passages. Finally, he mentions such Arabic and Greek sources as the Almagest, al-Farabi, and Plato. Nethanel's commentary comprises explanations according to the numerical value of the letters (gematria), some philological notes, and polemical flings at both Christianity and Islam: for instance, in his commentary on he designates Muhammad the \"madman\" (\"\"meshugga\"\").\n\nNethanel calls the five books of the Pentateuch (1) Sefer ha-Yashar, (2) Sefer Mekilta, (3) Torat Kohanim, (4) Homesh ha-Pequdim, and (5) Mishneh Torah, and he gives an Aramaic mnemonic formula for the weekly lessons; he is followed in both cases by Mansur al-Dhamari in his \"Siraj al-'Uqul.\" Nethanel illustrated his commentary with numerous figures and diagrams—e.g., of the Cave of Machpelah, the altar, the candlestick, etc. He inserted in his work three Hebrew poems, two of which were published by Kohut in his above-mentioned \"Light of Shade and Lamp of Wisdom.\" Nethanel is often quoted under the designation of \"ibn Yesha'yah\" by Mansur al-Dhamari and by Daud al-Lawani in his philosophical commentary on the Pentateuch entitled \"al-Wajiz al-Mujna\".\n\n It cites:\n"}
{"id": "2262329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262329", "title": "WNPT (TV)", "text": "WNPT (TV)\n\nWNPT, virtual and VHF digital channel 8, is a PBS member television station licensed to Nashville, Tennessee, United States. The station is owned by Nashville Public Television, Inc., a community-funded, non-profit organization. WNPT's studios are located on Rains Avenue in southeast Nashville, and its transmitter is located in the southern suburb of Forest Hills.\n\nThe station signed on the air on September 10, 1962, as WDCN-TV (for Davidson County Nashville), on VHF channel 2. It is Tennessee's second-oldest educational television station, behind WKNO-TV in Memphis, established four years earlier in 1956. It was originally licensed to the board of Nashville Public Schools, which became an arm of the metropolitan government when Nashville and Davidson County merged in 1963. Like most eventual PBS member stations, WDCN was mainly established to serve area school children with educational programming.\n\nIn the early 1970s, WDCN agreed to swap channel frequencies with ABC affiliate WSIX-TV, which was seeking a stronger signal. Metro agreed to trade frequencies upon realizing that WDCN's core audience would be better served on channel 8, despite its limited reach (the channel 8 transmitter facility in Nashville was short-spaced to fellow PBS station WGTV in Atlanta). Although the channel 2 signal traveled a very long distance under normal conditions, several Middle Tennessee viewers did not get a good signal from WDCN because the original frequency was short-spaced to another Atlanta station, WSB-TV.\n\nOn December 11, 1973, WSIX-TV changed its call letters to WNGE-TV (now WKRN-TV) and moved to channel 2, while WDCN moved to channel 8. It was only the third time in U.S. television history that the FCC allowed two established stations to exchange frequencies; an almost identical trade occurred in New Orleans three years earlier in 1970, also involving the ABC and PBS stations in the market.\n\nThe channel 8 signal was more or less unviewable in several areas of the market's eastern fringe, such as Cookeville. This area is slightly more rugged than the rest of Middle Tennessee, and the channel 8 signal was not able to penetrate it as well as the channel 2 signal could. Much of this area was left without PBS programming until WCTE signed on in 1978.\n\nOriginally, the station broadcast from a building located near Belmont College (now Belmont University) on 15th and Compton Avenues, a facility shared with WSM-TV (channel 4, now WSMV) until 1963. The proceeds from the exchange of channel positions with then-WSIX/WNGE owners General Electric enabled WDCN-TV to build studios in 1976 near the Tennessee State Fairgrounds in south Nashville, on the former site of Nashville Central High School. According to station officials, WKRN also maintains the original WDCN transmitter and antenna as part of the 1973 arrangement. The original site is now used as Metro's communications center.\n\nPolitical and funding issues prompted the Metro Nashville government to begin proceedings in the late 1990s to relinquish WDCN's license to a community board. Some local residents welcomed the change, since they believed that the school board's operation of the station kept WDCN from broadcasting PBS programs reputed to be even mildly controversial (even though Nashville itself is very liberal by Southern standards, the suburbs and adjacent rural areas are quite conservative, especially on social issues), including some programs that were broadcast on practically all PBS stations in markets as big or smaller than Nashville.\n\nWhatever the motivation, WDCN would become the last public television station in the state to be emancipated from a governmental body. WKNO had never been publicly operated, and the state board of education released the remaining stations in the state to community groups back in 1984. Metro formally released WDCN in 2000 to a new board known as \"Nashville Public Television\". The new board changed the station's calls to WNPT on February 22. Since then, the station has almost never referred to its call letters or channel number on the air (except during legal IDs), usually calling itself \"Nashville Public Television\".\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nIn the late 2000s NPT-2 launched to carry additional PBS programming, with programming from MHz Worldview airing overnights.\n\nWNPT-DT3 began broadcasting the 24-hour PBS Kids channel on June 30, 2017.\n\nWNPT shut down its analog signal, over VHF channel 8, on June 12, 2009, the official date in which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The station's digital signal relocated from its pre-transition UHF channel 46 to VHF channel 8 for post-transition operations.\n\nLocal shows produced by WNPT include \"Tennessee Crossroads\" and \"Volunteer Gardener\".\n\nFrom the 1970s, up until 1980 at earliest, WDCN (now WNPT), along with the \"big three\" commercial stations, were carried on cable television in Northern Alabama, including in Florence, Decatur, and Huntsville. This ended as more national cable channels were established throughout the 1980s, and became available to most cable systems. Lincoln County, Tennessee is the only middle Tennessee county in the Huntsville DMA, but Fayetteville Public Utilities, its local cable carrier, carries WNPT instead of the PBS station in its home market, Alabama Public Television.\n\nDuring much of the 1960s, the Bowling Green, Kentucky area was considered to be within the Nashville DMA (until Nielsen created a market area of its own in 1978). WDCN (now WNPT) was the default PBS outlet for that area, because no other educational television station reached that area with its signal. This ended when WKGB-TV, a broadcast relay station of the Kentucky Educational Television (KET) network of Lexington, signed on the air in September 1968. However, even after WKYU-TV signed on in that same area in January 1989, WDCN was available on cable in the Bowling Green up until about the early 2000s. WNPT can still be picked up with an outdoor antenna in the city of Bowling Green proper.\n\nIn Glasgow, the Glasgow Electric Plant Board still carries WNPT on their system. The South Central Rural Electric Cooperative also carries WNPT on all of its systems, making it available to their customers as far north as Hart, Green and Larue counties, the latter two of which are in the Louisville DMA.\n\n \n \n"}
{"id": "2262333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262333", "title": "Software as a service", "text": "Software as a service\n\nSoftware as a service (SaaS ) (also known as subscribeware or rentware) is a software licensing and delivery model in which software is licensed on a subscription basis and is centrally hosted. It is sometimes referred to as \"on-demand software\", and was formerly referred to as \"software plus services\" by Microsoft.\n\nSaaS applications are also known as Web-based software, on-demand software and hosted software. The term \"software as a service\" (SaaS) is considered to be part of the nomenclature of cloud computing, along with infrastructure as a service (IaaS), platform as a service (PaaS), desktop as a service (DaaS), managed software as a service (MSaaS), mobile backend as a service (MBaaS), datacenter as a service (DCaaS), and information technology management as a service (ITMaaS).\n\nSaaS apps are typically accessed by users using a thin client, e.g. via a web browser. SaaS has become a common delivery model for many business applications, including office software, messaging software, payroll processing software, DBMS software, management software, CAD software, development software, gamification, virtualization, accounting, collaboration, customer relationship management (CRM), management information systems (MIS), enterprise resource planning (ERP), invoicing, human resource management (HRM), talent acquisition, learning management systems, content management (CM), geographic information systems (GIS), and service desk management. SaaS has been incorporated into the strategy of nearly all leading enterprise software companies.\n\nAccording to a Gartner estimate, SaaS sales in 2018 were expected to grow 23% to $72 billion.\n\nCentralized hosting of business applications dates back to the 1960s. Starting in that decade, IBM and other mainframe providers conducted a service bureau business, often referred to as time-sharing or utility computing. Such services included offering computing power and database storage to banks and other large organizations from their worldwide data centers.\n\nThe expansion of the Internet during the 1990s brought about a new class of centralized computing, called application service providers (ASP). ASPs provided businesses with the service of hosting and managing specialized business applications, with the goal of reducing costs through central administration and through the solution provider's specialization in a particular business application. Two of the world's pioneers and largest ASPs were USI, which was headquartered in the Washington, DC area, and Futurelink Corporation, headquartered in Irvine, California.\n\nSoftware as a Service essentially extends the idea of the ASP model. The term \"software as a service\" (SaaS), however, is commonly used in more specific settings:\n\n\nThe acronym first appeared in the goods and services description of a USPTO trademark, filed on September 23, 1985.\n\nDbaaS (database as a service) has emerged as a sub-variety of SaaS, and is a type of cloud database.\n\nThe cloud (or SaaS) model has no physical need for indirect distribution because it is not distributed physically and is deployed almost instantaneously, thereby negating the need for traditional partners and middlemen. However, as the market has grown, SaaS and managed service players have been forced to try to redefine their role.\n\nUnlike traditional software, which is conventionally sold as a perpetual license with an up-front cost (and an optional ongoing support fee), SaaS providers generally price applications using a subscription fee, most commonly a monthly fee or an annual fee. Consequently, the initial setup cost for SaaS is typically lower than the equivalent enterprise software. SaaS vendors typically price their applications based on some usage parameters, such as the number of users using the application. However, because in a SaaS environment customers' data reside with the SaaS vendor, opportunities also exist to charge per transaction, event, or other units of value, such as the number of processors required.\n\nThe relatively low cost for user provisioning (i.e., setting up a new customer) in a multitenant environment enables some SaaS vendors to offer applications using the freemium model. In this model, a free service is made available with limited functionality or scope, and fees are charged for enhanced functionality or larger scope. Some other SaaS applications are completely free to users, with revenue being derived from alternative sources such as advertising.\n\nA key driver of SaaS growth is SaaS vendors' ability to provide a price that is competitive with on-premises software. This is consistent with the traditional rationale for outsourcing IT systems, which involves applying economies of scale to application operation, i.e., an outside service provider may be able to offer better, cheaper, more reliable applications.\n\nThe vast majority of SaaS solutions are based on a multitenant architecture. With this model, a single version of the application, with a single configuration (hardware, network, operating system), is used for all customers (\"tenants\"). To support scalability, the application can be installed on multiple machines (called horizontal scaling). In some cases, a second version of the application is set up to offer a select group of customers access to pre-release versions of the applications (e.g., a beta version) for testing purposes. This is contrasted with traditional software, where multiple physical copies of the software — each potentially of a different version, with a potentially different configuration, and often customized — are installed across various customer sites. In this traditional model, each version of the application is based on a unique code.\n\nAlthough an exception rather than the norm, some SaaS solutions do not use multitenancy, or use other mechanisms—such as virtualization—to cost-effectively manage a large number of customers in place of multitenancy. Whether multitenancy is a necessary component for software as a service is a topic of controversy.\n\nThere are two main varieties of SaaS:\n\n\nAlthough not all software-as-a-service applications share all traits, the characteristics below are common among many SaaS applications:\n\nSaaS applications similarly support what is traditionally known as application \"configuration\". In other words, like traditional enterprise software, a single customer can alter the set of configuration options (a.k.a. parameters) that affect its functionality and look-and-feel. Each customer may have its own settings (or: parameter values) for the configuration options. The application can be customized to the degree it was designed for based on a set of predefined configuration options.\n\nFor example, to support customers' common need to change an application's look-and-feel so that the application appears to be having the customer's brand (or—if so desired—co-branded), many SaaS applications let customers provide (through a self-service interface or by working with application provider staff) a custom logo and sometimes a set of custom colors. The customer cannot, however, change the page layout unless such an option was designed for.\n\nSaaS applications are often updated more frequently than traditional software, in many cases on a weekly or monthly basis. This is enabled by several factors:\n\nAccelerated feature delivery is further enabled by agile software development methodologies. Such methodologies, which have evolved in the mid-1990s, provide a set of software development tools and practices to support frequent software releases.\n\nBecause SaaS applications cannot access a company's internal systems (databases or internal services), they predominantly offer integration protocols and application programming interfaces (APIs) that operate over a wide area network. Typically, these are protocols based on HTTP, REST, and SOAP.\n\nThe ubiquity of SaaS applications and other Internet services and the standardization of their API technology has spawned the development of mashups, which are lightweight applications that combine data, presentation and functionality from multiple services, creating a compound service. Mashups further differentiate SaaS applications from on-premises software as the latter cannot be easily integrated outside a company's firewall.\n\nInspired by the success of online social networks and other so-called \"web 2.0\" functionality, many SaaS applications offer features that let their users collaborate and share information.\n\nFor example, many project management applications delivered in the SaaS model offer—in addition to traditional project planning functionality—collaboration features letting users comment on tasks and plans and share documents within and outside an organization. Several other SaaS applications let users vote on and offer new feature ideas.\n\nAlthough some collaboration-related functionality is also integrated into on-premises software, (implicit or explicit) collaboration between users or different customers is only possible with centrally hosted software.\n\nOpenSaaS refers to software as a service (SaaS) based on open source code. Similar to SaaS applications, Open SaaS is a web-based application that is hosted, supported and maintained by a service provider. While the roadmap for Open SaaS applications is defined by its community of users, upgrades and product enhancements are managed by a central provider. The term was coined in 2011 by Dries Buytaert, creator of the Drupal content management framework.\n\nAndrew Hoppin, a former Chief Information Officer for the New York State Senate, has been a vocal advocate of OpenSaaS for government, calling it \"the future of government innovation.\" He points to WordPress and Why Unified as a successful example of an OpenSaaS software delivery model that gives customers \"the best of both worlds, and more options. The fact that it is open source means that they can start building their websites by self-hosting WordPress and customizing their website to their heart’s content. Concurrently, the fact that WordPress is SaaS means that they don’t have to manage the website at all -- they can simply pay WordPress.com to host it.\"\n\nDrupal Gardens, a free web hosting platform based on the open source Drupal content management system, offers another example of what \"Forbes\" contributor Dan Woods calls a \"new open-source model for SaaS\". According to Woods, \"Open source provides the escape hatch. In Drupal Gardens, users will be able to press a button and get a source code version of the Drupal code that runs their site along with the data from the database. Then, you can take that code, put it up at one of the hosting companies, and you can do anything that you would like to do.\"\n\nSeveral important changes to the software market and technology landscape have facilitated the acceptance and growth of SaaS solutions:\n\nSome limitations slow down the acceptance of SaaS and prohibit it from being used in some cases:\n\nThe standard model also has limitations:\n\nAccording to a survey by HIMSS Analytics, 83% of US IT healthcare organizations are now using cloud services with 9.3% planning to, whereas 67% of IT healthcare organizations are currently running SaaS-based applications.\n\n\"Software as a service data escrow\" is the process of keeping a copy of critical software-as-a-service application data with an independent third party. Similar to source code escrow, where critical software source code is stored with an independent third party, SaaS data escrow applies the same logic to the data within a SaaS application. It allows companies to protect and insure all the data that resides within SaaS applications, protecting against data loss.\n\nThere are many and varied reasons for considering SaaS data escrow including concerns about vendor bankruptcy, unplanned service outages, and potential data loss or corruption. \nMany businesses either ensure that they are complying with their data governance standards or try to enhance their reporting and business analytics against their SaaS data. A research conducted by Clearpace Software Ltd. into the growth of SaaS showed that 85 percent of the participants wanted to take a copy of their SaaS data. A third of these participants wanted a copy on a daily basis.\n\nOne notable criticism of SaaS comes from Richard Stallman of the Free Software Foundation, who refers to it as service as a software substitute (SaaSS). He considers the use of SaaSS to be a violation of the principles of free software. According to Stallman:\nNot all SaaS products face this problem. In 2010, \"Forbes\" contributor Dan Woods noted that Drupal Gardens, a web hosting platform based on the open source Drupal content management system, is a \"new open-source model for SaaS\". He added: \n\nSimilarly, MediaWiki, WordPress and their many extensions are increasingly used for a wide variety of internal applications as well as public web services. Obtaining the code is relatively simple, as it is an integration of existing extensions, plug-ins, templates, etc. Actual customizations are rare, and usually quickly replaced by more standard publicly available extensions. There is additionally no guarantee the software source code obtained through such means accurately reflects the software system it claims to reflect.\n\nAndrew Hoppin, a former Chief Information Officer for the New York State Senate, refers to this combination of SaaS and open source software as OpenSaaS and points to WordPress as another successful example of an OpenSaaS software delivery model that gives customers \"the best of both worlds, and more options. The fact that it is open source means that they can start building their websites by self-hosting WordPress and customizing their website to their heart’s content. Concurrently, the fact that WordPress is SaaS means that they don’t have to manage the website at all – they can simply pay WordPress.com to host it.\" The cloud (or SaaS) model has no physical need for indirect distribution because it is not distributed physically and is deployed almost instantaneously, thereby negating the need for traditional partners and middlemen.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262337", "title": "Signalman", "text": "Signalman\n\nA signalman is a person who historically made signals using flags and light. In modern times, the role of signalmen has evolved and now usually uses electronic communication equipment. Signalmen usually work in rail transport networks, armed forces, or construction (to direct heavy equipment such as cranes). Many armed forces now use the rank of signaller instead. \n"}
{"id": "2262347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262347", "title": "Bacillus safensis", "text": "Bacillus safensis\n\nBacillus safensis is a Gram-positive, spore-forming, and rod bacterium, originally isolated from a spacecraft in Florida and California. \"B. safensis\" could have possibly been transported to the planet Mars on spacecraft Opportunity and Spirit in 2004. There are several known strains of this bacterium, all of which belong to the Firmicutes phylum of Bacteria. This bacterium also belongs to the large, pervasive genus \"Bacillus\". \"B. safensis\" is an aerobic chemoheterotroph and is highly resistant to salt and UV radiation. \"B. safensis\" affects plant growth, since it is a powerful plant hormone producer, and it also acts as a plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria, enhancing plant growth after root colonization. Strain \"B. safensis\" JPL-MERTA-8-2 is (so far) the only bacterial strain shown to grow noticeably faster in micro-gravity environments than on the Earth surface.\n\nThirteen strains of the novel bacterium \"Bacillus safensis\" were first isolated from spacecraft surfaces and assembly-facility surfaces at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida as well as the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in California. The bacterium gets its name from the JPL Spacecraft Assembly Facility (SAF). Researchers used customary swabbing techniques to detect and collect the bacteria from cleanrooms where the spacecraft were put together in the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. The bacterium was accidentally brought to Mars during space missions due to contamination of clean rooms. Contamination of clean rooms during space travel is an area of concern for planetary protection as it can threaten microbial experimentation and give false positives of other microbial life forms on other planets.\n\nV.V. Kothari and his colleagues from Saurashtra University in Gujarat, India, first isolated another strain, \"B. safensis\" VK. Strain VK was collected from \"Cuminum cyminum\", a cumin plant in the desert area of Gujarat, India. Specifically, the bacteria were collected from the rhizosphere of the cumin plant.\n\nRam S. Singh and colleagues discovered one of the strains, AS-08, in soil samples of root tubers of asparagus plants in a botanical garden at Punjabi University in India. \"B. safensis\" AS-08 was found to have inulase activity, which is used for the production of fructooligosaccharides and high-fructose corn syrup. Fructooligosaccharides are used as artificial sweeteners and can be found in many commercial food products. Corn syrup is also found in many processed foods.\n\nDavender Kumar and colleagues from Kurukshetra University in India isolated strain DVL-43 from soil samples. This strain was found to possess lipase, which is an important enzyme for fat digestion. Lipases are a class of chemicals that are abundant in nature amongst plants, animals and microorganisms that are widely used in industry for production of food, paper products, detergents and biodiesel fuel.\n\nP. Ravikumar of the Government Arts College at Bharathiar University in India isolated strain PR-2 from explosive-laden soil samples. This strain was identified by its 16S rDNA sequence by Sanger dideoxy sequencing method and deposited in the GenBank in Maryland, U.S. It carries the accession number KP261381 with 885 base pairs of linear DNA and the base count 175 \"a\" 295 \"c\" 199 \"g\" 216 \"t\".\n\n\"Bacillus safensis\" is a Gram-positive, spore-forming rod bacterium. \"B. safensis\" is also an aerobic chemoheterotroph. Cell size ranges from 0.5 to 0.7 μm in diameter and 1.0–1.2 μm in length. This species is motile, and use polar flagella for locomotion. Cells are considered mesophilic, as they can grow in temperatures of . \"B. safensis\" FO-036b has an optimal temperature range of , and cannot grow at . \"B. safensis\" FO-036b prefers 0–10% salt, and a pH of 5.6. This strain was also found to produce spores that are resistant to hydrogen peroxide and UV radiation.\n\nStrain VK of \"B. safensis\" is a salt-tolerant microorganism, and can grow beyond the 0–10% salt range of the general microbial species. This strain can grow in 14% NaCl, with a pH ranging from 4 to 8. Strain VK also contains genes that encode for 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate deaminase enzyme. This enzyme is able to generate 2-oxobutanoate and ammonia () by cleaving the precursor of plant hormone, ethylene 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate. This enables the plant to tolerate salt, heavy metals, and polyaromatic hydrocarbons. Because of these features, \"B. safensis\" VK is a powerful plant hormone producer.\n\nThe genome of \"Bacillus safensis\" strain FO-036b shows a GC-content of 41.0-41.4 mol%.\n\nThe \"B. safensis\" VK genomic DNA was obtained from a 24-hr-old nutrient broth culture. Isolation of this strain was performed using a GenElute commercial DNA isolation kit, and whole-genome shotgun sequencing was carried out. Thirty-nine contigs, overlapping DNA fragments, greater in size than 200 base pairs were observed in strain VK. This strain displays a GC-content of 46.1% in a circular chromosome of 3.68 Mbp. 3,928 protein-coding sequences were identified, and 1,822 protein-coding sequences were appointed to one of the 457 RAST subsystems. RAST, Rapid Annotation using Subsystem Technology, is a server that generates bacterial and archaeal genome annotations. The genome also displays 73 tRNA genes. The \"B. safensis\" VK genome sequence can be found in GenBank under the accession number AUPF00000000. Another strain, DVL-43, can also be found in GenBank under the accession number KC156603, and strain PR-2 can be found under accession number KP261381.\n\nListed below are currently identified \"Bacillus safensis\" strains, including where they were discovered, and the year discovered (if available).\n\n\nSeveral isolates of the genus \"Bacillus\" are nearly identical to \"Bacillus pumilus\". The group of isolates related to \"B. pumilus\" contains five related species: \"B. pumilus\", \"B. safensis\", \"B. stratosphericus\", \"B. altitudinis\", and \"B. aerophilus\". These species are difficult to distinguish due to their 99.5% similarity in their 16S rRNA gene sequence. Recently, scientists have discovered an alternate way to differentiate between these closely related species, especially \"B. pumilus\" and \"B. safensis\".\n\nDNA gyrase is an important enzyme that introduces a negative supercoil to the DNA and is responsible for the biological processes in DNA replication and transcription. DNA gyrase is made of two subunits, A and B. These subunits are denoted as gyrA and gyrB. The gyrB gene, subunit B protein, is a type II topoisomerase that is essential for DNA replication. This gene is conserved among bacterial species. The rate of evolution at the molecular level deduced from gyrB-related gene sequences can be determined at a more accelerated rate compared to the 16S rRNA gene sequences. These subunits have provided a way to phylogenetically distinguish between the diversity of species related to \"B. pumilus\", which includes \"B. safensis\". Strain \"B. safensis\" DSM19292 shares 90.2% gyrA sequence similarity with \"B. pumilus\" strain .\n\nIn 1952, a strain of \"B. pumilus\" was discovered in the DSMZ culture and labeled as strain . The strain was identified before \"B. safensis\" was discovered. In 2012, a gyrA sequence similarity was tested between the \"B. pumilus\" strain and \"B. pumilus\" strain , as well as against \"B. safensis\" strain (type strain FO-36b). Strain showed a 90.4% and 98% sequence similarity with \"B. pumilus\" strain and \"B. safensis\" strain , respectively. These results indicated that may in fact be a \"B. safensis\" strain, instead of a \"B. pumilus\" strain. These results supported that gyrA sequences could be used to differentiate between closely related bacteria.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262353", "title": "Readymoney Cove", "text": "Readymoney Cove\n\nReadymoney Cove (, meaning \"mineral house cove\") is a sandy beach to the south of the harbour town of Fowey, Cornwall, England, United Kingdom. It is sheltered by cliffs close to the mouth of the River Fowey estuary and bounded, on one side, by the medieval part of the town of Fowey and, on the other, by St Catherine's Castle. The beach can be covered during spring tides. The beach is cleaned daily during high season, and a bathing platform is moored in the bay. Dogs are banned between Easter and 30 September. Above the cove is the former coach house which was the home of author, Daphne du Maurier, for a few years during the Second World War.\nComedian Dawn French lives in a house overlooking the cove.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262367", "title": "Pure Imagination", "text": "Pure Imagination\n\n\"Pure Imagination\" is a song from the 1971 film \"Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory\". It was written by British composers Leslie Bricusse and Anthony Newley specifically for the movie. It was sung by Gene Wilder (Willy Wonka). \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262370", "title": "First appearance datum", "text": "First appearance datum\n\nFirst appearance datum is a term used by geologists and paleontologists to designate the first (oldest) appearance of a species in the geologic record. In other words, FADs represent the geologically oldest fossil of a particular species that has so far been discovered.\n\nFADs are frequently used to designate segments in the geologic time scale. For example, the beginning of the Tremadocian Stage of the Ordovician Period is marked by the first appearance (FAD) of the conodont \"Iapetognathus fluctivagus\" in the geologic record. This occurs in bed 23 of the rock formation known as the Green Point section, located in western Newfoundland, as well as in geologically correlated strata in many parts of the world.\n"}
{"id": "2262382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262382", "title": "Olympic Channel (American TV channel)", "text": "Olympic Channel (American TV channel)\n\nOlympic Channel (branded as Olympic Channel: Home of Team USA) is an American pay television sports channel owned by the NBC Olympics division of NBC Sports and the United States Olympic Committee. It is dedicated to Olympic sports, and is a franchise of the International Olympic Committee's (IOC) Olympic Channel operation. \n\nThe network was founded in 2003 as Bravo HD+, which aired programs from the fellow NBC Universal network Bravo that had been produced in high definition. In 2004, the network was re-branded as Universal HD, serving as an outlet for HD broadcasts of programming from NBCUniversal channels, and library films. Universal HD rebranded to the Olympic Channel on July 15, 2017.\n\nThe channel was launched on July 31, 2003 as Bravo HD+, serving as a high-definition companion service to Bravo. On December 1, 2004, the network was rebranded as Universal HD, shifting its focus towards library content, particularly from Universal Pictures and other NBC Universal channels.\n\nIn June 2017, NBCUniversal announced that Universal HD would be replaced by Olympic Channel on July 15, 2017. The move came in response to changing market conditions in the U.S. television industry, including the growth of \"skinny\" over-the-top linear television services delivered over the internet, and an overall decline in \"niche\" channels that originate little to no original programming.\n\nThe U.S. version of Olympic Channel is a franchise of the IOC's Olympic Channel network operated in conjunction with NBC Sports and the United States Olympic Committee. The channel carries coverage of competitions in Olympic sports that take place outside of the Olympic Games (such as world championships), and other programming focusing on Olympic athletes. It draws from programming commissioned for the international version of Olympic Channel, original programming produced by the USOC, and the archives of NBC. \n\nThe USOC had announced preliminary plans in July 2009 to launch an Olympic sports-oriented channel with Comcast, who would go onto announce its intent to acquire NBC Universal later that year. The joint venture was folded in April 2010, with the planned acquisition of NBC (who ran its own Olympic sport-focused channel with InterMedia Partners, Universal Sports) having been cited as a potential distraction from the proposed channel (which was originally intended to launch following the 2010 Winter Olympics).\n\nThe rebranding occurred on the morning of July 15, 2017; its launch weekend programming included coverage of events in the 2017 World Aquatics Championships, the 2017 FIVB Volleyball World Grand Prix, the 2017 World Para Athletics Championships and the 2017 IAAF Diamond League. Besides Xfinity, providers who carried the channel at launch included Altice, AT&T U-verse, DirecTV, Dish Network, Spectrum, and Verizon Fios, along with Hulu's live TV service; NBC stated that it would be available in 35 million households when the rebranding occurs.\n\nThe network carried news and highlights during the 2018 Winter Olympics (with full event coverage delegated to other NBCUniversal networks), including the Jimmy Roberts-hosted studio program \"Winter Olympics Daily\", the daily medals ceremony, and the Olympic Broadcasting Services (OBS) produduction \"Olympic Channel News\". The network participated in NBCSN's event coverage of the 2018 Winter Paralympics.\n\nMost of the programs broadcast by Universal HD were first aired by one of NBCUniversal's pay-TV networks, including Bravo, USA Network, Syfy and Chiller before their HD simulcast networks were launched. In its early years, it carried sports coverage from USA in the HD format, including its rights to The Masters, tennis's US Open, and the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show. Early in the high-definition era it also acquired rights to short-run early-to-mid 2000s network series such as CBS's \"Clubhouse\" and UPN's \"Sex, Love & Secrets\" to fill out its schedule.\n\nIn July 2007, the network announced a partnership with then-sister network Sundance Channel to carry a weekly block of their content from August 1 to December 26, 2007, which was sponsored by Microsoft. It also, as part of a consortium of other NBC Universal networks and Sundance Channel, broadcast the entirety of the 2007 Live Earth concerts in high definition.\n\nIn November 2015, Universal Sports, a sports channel owned by InterMedia Partners with a minority stake held by NBC, ceased operations. NBC Sports acquired the rights to the content that was previously held by the channel, which consisted primarily of competitions in Olympic sports, and dispersed across Universal HD, NBCSN, and NBC Sports Live Extra. It also carried tape-delayed repeats of WWE's weekly series, including \"Raw\" and \"SmackDown\", which aired back-to-back on Saturday evenings. It also carried repeats of NBC's package of Notre Dame football home games before the conversion of the former OLN/Versus to NBCSN.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262394", "title": "Driller killer", "text": "Driller killer\n\nDriller killer may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2262395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262395", "title": "WTVF", "text": "WTVF\n\nWTVF, virtual channel 5 (UHF digital channel 36), is a CBS-affiliated television station licensed to Nashville, Tennessee, United States. The station is owned by the E. W. Scripps Company. WTVF's studios are located on James Robertson Parkway in downtown Nashville, and its transmitter is located north of downtown along I-24 near Whites Creek.\n\nWTVF first signed on the air August 6, 1954 as WLAC-TV, owned by the Life and Casualty Insurance Company, and Nashville businessmen Guilford Dudley, Al Beaman and Thomas Baker. Life and Casualty's chairman of the board Paul Mountcastle and his investment group also held a majority ownership of WATE-TV, Channel 6, in Knoxville, but the two stations were not considered to be co-owned. Ever since its inception, WLAC-TV's analog signal was short-spaced to Memphis' WMC-TV also on VHF channel 5 (coincidentally, WMC-TV began on channel 4 and was immediately short-spaced to WSM-TV in Nashville, now WSMV). WLAC-TV was owned alongside WLAC radio (1510 AM) and later WLAC-FM (105.9 FM, now WNRQ). The call sign reflected the initials of the insurance company. It immediately took the CBS affiliation from WSIX-TV (channel 8, eventually WKRN-TV on channel 2) because WLAC (AM) had been Nashville's CBS Radio affiliate since 1928. With WLAC-TV, Nashville became one of the smallest cities in the United States to have three fully separate network-affiliated commercial television stations. American General Corporation, a Houston-based insurer, bought L&C and WLAC-AM-FM-TV in the 1960s.\n\nWLAC-TV was sold in 1975 to the Hobby family (owners of KPRC AM-TV and the now-defunct \"Houston Post\"), who changed the station's call letters to the current WTVF on December 1 (the call letter change was brought on due to an FCC rule in place at the time forbidding TV and radio stations in the same city, but with different owners from sharing the same call letters). American General/L&C eventually sold WLAC-AM-FM to other interests and the other stations have had several owners over the years. In 1983, the Hobbys reorganized their broadcast holdings as H&C Communications after the \"Post\" was sold. Landmark Communications, based in Norfolk, Virginia, bought WTVF from the Hobbys in 1994.\n\nOn January 30, 2008, Landmark announced its intention to sell WTVF, along with sister station KLAS-TV in Las Vegas and cable network The Weather Channel. This was followed on July 14, 2008 with an announcement that WTVF would be sold to Bonten Media Group, which already owned 16 broadcast television stations in five states, including at the time WCYB-TV in Bristol, Virginia. However, the deal was called off due to the economic crisis of 2008 as Bonten informed Landmark that it could not close on the purchase after its key financial backer for that purchase, Lehman Brothers, filed for what remains the largest bankruptcy in American history. Although the sale of The Weather Channel and some other assets was eventually completed, Landmark (which changed its name from Landmark Communications to Landmark Media Enterprises in September 2008) took most of its other properties off the market in October 2008. As a result, WTVF and KLAS remained owned by Landmark. WTVF would have become the largest station owned by Bonten, as well as the first CBS affiliate in its portfolio.\n\nOn May 1 and 2, 2010, WTVF's newsroom was flooded with of water, and became non-operational for three months as it was being rebuilt. During the flooding, equipment was hastily moved to other locations around the building to prevent disruption of the station's news operation.\n\nOn September 4, 2012, Milwaukee-based Journal Communications announced that it would purchase WTVF from Landmark for $215 million. The FCC approved the sale on October 22, and it was consummated on December 6. With the transaction's completion, WTVF became the largest Journal-owned station by market size (displacing flagship WTMJ-TV, which became the second largest). It also made WTVF the sister station of KLAS's rival, KTNV-TV.\n\nOn July 30, 2014, less than two years after Landmark sold the station to Journal, it was announced that Journal Communications would be bought out by the E. W. Scripps Company in an all-stock transaction. Scripps retained the companies' broadcast holdings, including WTVF, and spun off their print holdings into Journal Media Group. This marks the second time that Scripps has owned a Tennessee television station, as it owned WMC-TV in Memphis from its 1948 sign-on until 1993. The FCC approved the deal on December 12, 2014. It was approved by the two companies' shareholders on March 11, 2015, and it closed on April 1.\n\nWTVF-DT2, branded as NewsChannel 5 Plus or NewsChannel 5+, is the second digital subchannel of WTVF, operating as an independent station. It broadcasts in standard definition on UHF channel 25.2 (or virtual channel 5.2 via PSIP).\n\nNewsChannel 5+ was introduced and launched in September 1996 as an all-news and information cable-only channel for the Nashville area. In addition to locally produced shows and newscast repeats, NewsChannel 5+ also carried programming from All News Channel until that service folded in September 2002. After that point, the channel's programming schedule relies mostly on original content.\n\nNewsChannel 5+ was relaunched as an over-the-air digital sub-channel on June 21, 2009, nine days after the Digital TV transition of 2009, when WTVF began utilizing digital multi-casting on its digital signal. Since then, News Channel 5+ is being broadcast on digital channel 5.2. In mid-2014, WTVF-DT2's standard definition picture was upgraded to SD widescreen to accommodate widescreen TVs.\n\nThis channel features locally produced programming, repeats of local news from the main channel, and a few syndicated shows that may not fit on the program schedule of the main channel. There is also live gavel-to-gavel coverage of high-profile criminal trials in the Nashville area including those of Paul Dennis Reid, Perry March, Mary Winkler, Lindsey Lowe, as well as the three suspects in the Holly Bobo case, the latter of which gained national attention in the 2010s. WTVF-DT2 goes live during severe weather and will sometimes air local newscasts if CBS programming is preempted on the main channel, such as during the NCAA Division I Men's Basketball Tournament, which has been a staple in CBS Sports programming since 1982.\n\nSince the Saturday edition of \"CBS This Morning\" does not run on the main channel, it is being carried on WTVF-DT2 on a one-hour delay, so it is being run from 8 to 10 a.m. CT Saturday mornings. \"CBS Overnight News\" is also run almost in its entirety during each weekday morning, usually from 1:35 to 3:30 a.m., since the main channel airs certain syndicated programming, and doesn't join the overnight news program until 2:37 a.m. It also carries the full hour of CBS' \"Face the Nation\", since WTVF only shows the first half-hour of the program; the main channel airs religious programming from 10 to 11:00 a.m. Children's educational programming on WTVF-DT2 is a replay of the children's programming block that is run on WTVF-DT3 on Sunday mornings; WTVF-DT2 rebroadcasts that programming on Sunday afternoons.\n\nWTVF-DT2 also replays most, if not all, newscasts and editions of their locally produced show, \"Talk of the Town\". In addition, WTVF-DT2's parent station also produces five hours of newscasts each week for NewsChannel 5+ in the form of an hour-long extension of WTVF's weekday morning newscast airing from 7 to 8 a.m. \"Supreme Justice\" and \"The Dr. Oz Show\" are the only syndicated programs that is shown on the channel.\n\nBeginning in June 2015, WTVF-DT2 broadcast Union Wrestling Latin America's lucha libre-like shows under the traditional brokered format of most local wrestling promotions. UWLA specifically targeted the area's Hispanic-American population. This show was removed from programming in late July 2015.\n\nWTVF-DT3, the third digital subchannel, which is also available on Comcast channel 249, was launched as an affiliate of classic movie network This TV on the same day as the over-the-air relaunch of NewsChannel 5+ on WTVF-DT2. On September 24, 2015, it was replaced by Laff, a Katz Broadcasting-operated comedy-oriented multi-cast network.\n\nWTVF's digital signal was first activated on November 15, 2001. It originally was broadcast on UHF channel 56.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nWTVF shut down its analog signal, over VHF channel 5, on June 12, 2009, the official date in which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The station's digital signal relocated from its pre-transition UHF channel 56, which was among the high band UHF channels (52-69) that were removed from broadcasting use as a result of the transition, to its analog-era VHF channel 5 for post-transition operations.\n\nSince WTVF's transition to that channel, some viewers in the immediate Nashville area were having reception problems of the VHF digital channel. On July 6, 2009, the station filed an application to operate a low-powered digital translator on UHF channel 50, broadcasting at 100 kW, to serve viewers that could not receive the VHF signal. The original application to operate this translator has yet to be granted but STAs have been approved. On July 31, 2009, WTVF began multicasting on its digital subchannels the over-the-air relaunch of \"NewsChannel 5+\" (originally a cable-only channel) on 5.2 and the addition of classic movie network, This TV on 5.3.\n\nOn September 7, 2012, WTVF relocated its main digital signal to UHF channel 25; it also shut down its UHF fill-in translator on channel 50 and converted its former full-power operations on VHF channel 5 to a fill-in translator to serve the far fringes of the station's viewing area.\n\nDue to the station's participation in the FCC's 2016–17 spectrum incentive auction, WTVF filed for a construction permit to relocate its digital allocation to UHF channel 36. As a result, on October 18, 2019, WTVF moved to its new frequency due to spectrum repacking. Ion Television O&O station WNPX-TV, which previously broadcast its digital signal on UHF channel 36, moved its digital signal to UHF channel 32 on the same day.\n\nSyndicated programs broadcast by WTVF include \"The Ellen DeGeneres Show\", \"Inside Edition\", and \"The Kelly Clarkson Show\".\n\nFrom September 2017 to May 2019, WTVF also produced the syndicated daily talk show \"Pickler & Ben\", featuring country artist Kellie Pickler and comedian Ben Aaron. The program, which the station served as its flagship station, was recorded with a live audience at Skyway Studios, the former north Nashville studio facility of the Christian Broadcasting Network.\n\nIn 1998, WTVF became the primary home station for the Tennessee Titans, then still known as the Oilers starting with that season, when the rights to air road games of the National Football League's American Football Conference moved to CBS from NBC. In 2014, the first eight weeks of NFL Network's \"Thursday Night Football\" were added to WTVF's sports programming roster due to the new partnership between NFL Network and CBS to simulcast that program. WTVF began simulcasting any of the Tennessee Titans' \"TNF\" appearances in the late half of the season, beginning with the Tennessee Titans-Jacksonville Jaguars game on Thursday, November 19, 2015. In the 2013 and 2014 seasons, that duty was previously held by Fox affiliate WZTV until the Fox network became the over-the-air broadcaster of most TNF games. All other CBS Sports programming is featured on the station, including their signature broadcasts of college basketball. Since 2018, WZTV broadcasts \"TNF\" games as part of Fox's rights to the package.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, WTVF also held the local broadcast rights to Southeastern Conference basketball games produced by the Lorimar Sports Network until that syndication service dissolved after the 1985-86 season. Beginning January 1987, when Jefferson-Pilot Teleproductions began syndicating those games, WSMV began serving as the package’s Nashville-area rights-holder until WUXP-TV won the local rights for the rest of that package’s run.\n\nThe station's Studio A, which was built in 1967 near the Tennessee State Capitol building, was also the home of the hit show \"Hee Haw\" for most of its 1968 to 1993 run; its last few years were recorded at The Nashville Network's studios, adjacent to the now-defunct Opryland USA theme park. Additionally, the 1970s syndicated version of \"Candid Camera\" originated from the station's facilities for most of its run.\n\nThe station's relation to WLAC, which was known for many years for its nighttime soul music programming, led it to air a groundbreaking show on Friday and Saturday nights during the mid-and late-1960s called \"Night Train\" hosted by Noble Blackwell (a disc jockey on Nashville soul radio station WVOL (1470 AM)), which featured R&B performances and dancing similar to \"American Bandstand\". From 1972 to 1975, Show Biz, Inc.'s \"The Bobby Goldsboro Show\" was recorded at the WLAC-TV/WTVF studios.\n\nIn 1984, WTVF launched its locally produced magazine format program, \"Talk of the Town\", hosted by Debbie Alan. Co-hosts Harry Chapman and Joe Case joined the show a few months later. Case also did weather for the show and for the morning and midday newscasts, while Chapman was the station's entertainment reporter.\n\nWTVF aired the CBS daytime lineup out of pattern in the late 1980s to early '90s. WTVF aired \"As the World Turns\" on a delay at 3:00 p.m. for their own local show \"Talk of the Town\" at 12:30 p.m. with \"The Bold and the Beautiful\" airing at 1:30 p.m. Like many other CBS stations prior to the 1993 debut of \"Late Show with David Letterman\", WLAC/WTVF also did not carry CBS' late night programming airing their own syndicated programs such as newsmagazines and sitcoms.\n\nWTVF broadcasts 37 hours of locally produced newscasts each week (with 5½ hours each on Mondays through Saturdays and four hours on Sundays); in addition, the station produces the half-hour news/interview program \"Talk of the Town\" on weekdays at 11 a.m. and a weekly sports wrap-up program \"Sunday Sports Central\" on Sundays at 10:22 p.m. as part of the 10 p.m. newscast. The station also produces five hours of newscasts each week for NewsChannel 5+ in the form of an hour-long extension of WTVF's weekday morning newscast at 7. Weekday morning newscasts last from 4–7 (not counting the extension on NewsChannel 5+), and the 6 p.m. newscasts last for a full hour. Since February 22, 2014, WTVF's weekend morning newscast started at 5, lasting from 5–9 on Saturday mornings and 5–8 on Sunday mornings.\n\n\"Talk of the Town\", the station's primary mid-day show, premiered on WTVF on March 19, 1984. The show features information about upcoming events around middle Tennessee, interviews with local personalities (some national), as well as some recipes are featured on the show. In April 2014, the station celebrated the show's 30th anniversary by airing pieces of old episodes within the past 30 years of the show's run for a few weeks. With the show still on the air, \"Talk of The Town\" was declared the longest locally produced television show in the Nashville television market, and the whole nation. It currently airs every weekday at 11 a.m. on the main channel, with replays at various times on WTVF-DT2/NewsChannel 5+.\n\nA full broadcast of the August 8, 1974 6 p.m. newscast exists in the Vanderbilt Television News Archive in Nashville, the result of the Archive's staff inadvertently leaving recording equipment on after taping CBS News' coverage of the events leading to the resignation of President Richard Nixon at 5:30 p.m., in the wake of the Watergate scandal. The broadcast featured interviews with Nashville-area and Tennessee politicians about that day's events in Washington and was anchored by Harry Chapman, with Ron Kaiser doing the weather and Hope Hines the sports. Main anchor Chris Clark filed a telephone report from Washington concerning reaction from the senators and representatives in Tennessee's Congressional delegation. Since it was not the policy of the Archive to record local newscasts alongside network ones and this occurrence was quite accidental, this may well be the only preserved, full-length Nashville television news broadcast prior to the late 1970s (when videocassette recorders became widely marketed to the public), other than local cut-ins to network election coverage and two 1973 special broadcasts of \"Today\" (on WSM-TV). It is available for public viewing at the Archive, but because of the equipment at the time, the broadcast was recorded in black and white, although all live television by then was broadcast in color. Before the advent of satellite technology in the 1980s, the Archive taped all CBS News broadcasts from the airwaves of WLAC-TV/WTVF.\n\nDuring the 1970s and 1980s, the station used the \"Eyewitness News\" moniker for its newscasts. The current \"NewsChannel 5\" branding and logo have been in use since August 1989. In 1974, WLAC became the first network affiliate in the country to use Electronic News Gathering (ENG) to bring live field reports to its viewers. On February 2, 2007, WTVF unveiled a new on-air look complete with a new state-of-the-art news set, weather center, and graphics in tandem its official upgrade to high definition newscasts (becoming the 25th television station in the United States to broadcast its local news programming in high definition and one of only four at the time with an HD weather center and system). The new set was built in a separate studio from its existing news set minimizing disruptions of news operations. The old, existing news set is now currently used for some original programs aired on NewsChannel 5+, which is broadcast over WTVF-DT2.\n\nWTVF produced daily 90-second news updates for UniMás affiliate WLLC-LP (channel 42), anchored by Eva Melo. It was the only Spanish-language newscast in Nashville, a market consisting of about 4% Spanish-speaking viewers, a fast-growing audience in the Middle Tennessee area. As of 2011 WTVF no longer produces news updates for WLLC, as they were canceled.\n\nWTVF started using Scripps' standardized graphics in May 2016.\n\nOn April 16, 1998, WTVF was knocked off the air due to an F3 tornado striking downtown Nashville. This occurred while meteorologists Ron Howes and Joe Case were broadcasting live, showing the actual tornado from the station's SkyCam as it entered downtown Nashville. Before the interruption of the signal, which was caused by winds in excess of , the station's weather camera on top of the AT&T Building (then BellSouth Building) captured the tornado as it moved into downtown Nashville during the station's broadcast of wall-to-wall tornado warning coverage that afternoon. The station returned to the air shortly after that, with Chris Clark and Ron Howes broadcasting weather information from the station’s transmitter, with the help of just a two-way radio and a television camera connected directly to the transmitter for the remainder of the afternoon.\n\nCurrently, the station’s weather department utilizes data from five National Weather Service NEXRAD doppler radars (Nashville, Huntsville, Memphis, Paducah, and Louisville). The station also has a policy of broadcasting uninterrupted, wall-to-wall severe weather coverage when a tornado warning is issued for any part of the station’s primary coverage area. \n\nAs WLAC-TV, the station helped launch the career of a young African-American reporter and local Nashvillian named Oprah Winfrey by making her a regular news anchor in the early 1970s. Behind Winfrey, the station's most notable anchor is Greek-American Chris Clark (real name Christopher Botsaris), who served as the station's main anchor for 41 years from 1966 to 2007, longer than anyone in Nashville television history. In June 2006, Clark reduced his daily anchoring schedule to only the weeknight 6 p.m. newscast and announced his retirement at the end of his contract in 2007. Clark's final broadcast aired on May 23, 2007. The station ran a number of on-air tributes in the days leading up to Clark's departure. He signed-off with a tribute to his co-workers and friends and gave his closing line a final time: \"I'll see you then...\", which was the closing line he used at the end of each teaser. Rhori Johnston, the co-anchor on the weeknight 5 and 10 p.m. broadcasts, succeeded Clark at 6 p.m. Before arriving at WLAC/WTVF, Clark, a graduate of the University of Georgia, worked for stations in his native Georgia in Atlanta and Albany. While at Albany's WALB-TV, Clark interviewed Martin Luther King, Jr.\nIn 1998, WTVF-TV hired investigative reporter Phil Williams, who had previously been a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize while working at \"The Tennessean\" and a recipient of the George Foster Peabody Award while working for WKRN-TV. As a result, WTVF created one of the country's most highly acclaimed investigative units, which it branded as its \"NewsChannel 5 Investigates\" team. As the team expanded, Williams assumed the title of chief investigative reporter. in 2001, Williams and photojournalist Bryan Staples received the prestigious IRE Medal for an investigation of police corruption that resulted in threats against Williams and his family. Williams and the \"NewsChannel 5 Investigates\" team also exposed questionable contracting by the administration of then-Gov. Don Sundquist, receiving a Peabody Award, a duPont-Columbia University Award and a George Polk Award.\n\nThe team won its second duPont Award in 2010 for an investigation of corruption inside the Davidson County General Sessions Court system and a third duPont in 2012 for its \"Policing for Profit\" investigation of civil forfeiture abuses. In addition, the team (including Williams and investigative reporter Ben Hall) received a 2013 Peabody Award for its \"Questions of Influence\" investigation of shady deals by Gov. Bill Haslam's administration. The continuing \"Policing for Profit\" investigation later received the 2015 Hillman Prize for Broadcast Journalism.\n\n\nViewers residing in several areas outside of the Nashville media market can view WTVF, depending on the cable provider. Carriage of the station's signal outside the Nashville market is subject to Syndication exclusivity, or SyndEx, where the local CBS affiliate's feed substitutes that of WTVF when network and/or syndicated programming is shown on both stations at the same time period. \n\nWTVF is actually a significantly viewed station in the Bowling Green, Kentucky DMA, owing to its transmitter being located on the north side of Nashville. As a result, its signal was strong enough to be received in most of that area. For more than five decades, WTVF had a decades-long monopoly in providing CBS programming to certain counties in south-central Kentucky as that area was originally part of the Nashville market until Bowling Green was collapsed into its own market area in 1978. Even after Bowling Green was collapsed into its own market, CBS was still not locally available in that area. This came to an end on February 1, 2007, when Bowling Green area NBC affiliate WNKY launched a new second digital subchannel to serve as that area's own CBS affiliate. In spite of the existence of WNKY-DT2, WTVF remains available on several cable systems in the Bowling Green market. Mediacom cable systems currently carry the station's main channel in the Morgantown (Butler County) and Brownsville (Edmonson County) areas. Charter Spectrum in Bowling Green, along with the on-campus cable system WesternCable at Western Kentucky University, as well as the Glasgow-based cable system of the South Central Rural Telephone Cooperative. The SCRTC in Glasgow also has been piping in WLKY, the CBS/MeTV affiliate in Louisville as a secondary option since 1990 (and before that WHAS-TV which was Louisville’s CBS affiliate until then). Many areas of the Bowling Green market can still pick up WTVF via an outdoor antenna. Some users of indoor antennas in southern Kentucky, and the far reaches of the station's coverage area can also pick up the signal thanks to their digital signal upgrade in 2013.\n\nThe Glasgow Electric Plant Board also carried WTVF and WSMV as distant CBS and NBC affiliates, respectively. That provider did not drop WTVF or WSMV and its associated subchannels from their lineup until late 2017 when WNKY and WNKY-DT2 claimed market exclusivity on that system.\n\nMediacom also carries the station's main channel in Caldwell and Crittenden counties, including the communities of Princeton and Marion, both of which are in the Paducah, Kentucky/Cape Girardeau, Missouri/Harrisburg, Illinois media market. The station is also carried on Murray Electric System cable in the Murray area of Calloway County, Kentucky, which is also in the Paducah market. WK&T Telecom also makes WTVF available to its Calloway County customers. WTVF is also carried on cable systems in Muhlenberg and Hopkins Counties, which are in the Evansville, Indiana market.\n\nWTVF is carried on several cable systems in other areas outside of the Nashville market and within the state of Tennessee. In Jackson, Tennessee, for instance, WTVF is currently the only Nashville-based station that is carried on Jackson Energy Authority's E-Plus Broadband Cable Service. Other systems in the Jackson market carry the station, including WK&T Telecom's customers (under the Flite label) in the Trenton area of Gibson County, as well as two of the three northwest Tennessee counties within the Paducah market, namely Weakley and Obion, including the Martin/Dresden and Union City/South Fulton areas, respectively.\n\nThe station is also available on cable in the Fayetteville area of Lincoln County, the only Middle Tennessee county that is in the Huntsville, Alabama media market. WTVF's main channel is also carried on cable systems in Fentress County (Jamestown), as well as on Spirit Broadband Cable channel 5 for that provider's customers in Cumberland County, Tennessee (including Crossville and Fairfield Glade), which is in the Knoxville media market.\n\nFrom 1957 until the 1980s, WTVF, along with WSMV, WKRN, and eventually WZTV, were carried on cable systems in northern Alabama, including the Huntsville, Florence and Decatur areas. As new cable channels launched they were gradually dropped from those systems throughout the 1980s.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262398", "title": "XXXIX Panzer Corps", "text": "XXXIX Panzer Corps\n\nThe XXXIX Panzer Corps (, also previously designated the \"XXXIX.Armeekorps (mot)\") was a German panzer corps which saw action on the Western and Eastern Fronts during World War II.\n\nThe Corps whose home station was formed (as the XXXIX Army Corps) in 1940 for the German invasion of France, in which it was part of Group Guderian, the 2nd and 1st Armies. In June 1941 the Corps was assigned to Army Group Centre for Operation Barbarossa, Nazi Germany's invasion of the Soviet Union. It initially attacked towards Vilnius and then took part in the first Battle of Minsk. By August, it was assigned to Army Group North for the attack on Leningrad.\n\nIn 9 July 1942 the Corps was reorganised as the XXXIX Panzer Corps. It was shifted to the Rzhev salient, under the 9th Army of Army Group Centre, where it was involved in Battle of Rzhev in the summer of 1942. Army Group Centre evacuated the Rzhev salient early in 1943. During the autumn, the Corps took part in the defence against Operation Suvorov, withdrawing to positions east of Mogilev.\n\nDuring June 1944 the XXXIX Panzer Corps took part in the defence against the Soviet summer offensive, Operation Bagration; covering the strategically important highway through Mogilev, it was one of the strongest corps in the Army Group at the time, with four high-quality divisions. Soviet breakthroughs to the north and south saw the Corps threatened with encirclement within a matter of days, while the 12th Infantry Division was encircled in Mogilev and destroyed. The corps commander, General Robert Martinek was killed on 28 June and his replacement Otto Schünemann, was killed the following day. The Corps disintegrated at the Berezina River crossings as its columns attempted to cross the river under heavy air attack; nearly all its units were destroyed by the 2nd Belorussian Front in the subsequent encirclement east of Minsk. The commanders of the 110th, 12th, 31st and \"Feldherrnhalle\" Divisions, Kurowski, Bamler, Ochsner, and Steinkeller respectively, were all captured.\n\nThe Corps was reformed by redesignating \"Gruppe von Saucken\", composed of \"ad hoc\" battle groups along with the 5th Panzer Division and commanded by Dietrich von Saucken. Renamed XXXIX Panzer Corps, it fought for the control of Minsk and then retreated in the face of the subsequent stages of the Soviet strategic offensive through Belarus, Poland and Lithuania, being pushed back into the Courland Pocket. During this period, the rebuilt Corps was reinforced with the 4th and 12th Panzer Divisions as well as the Panzergrenadier Division Großdeutschland, taking part in Operation Doppelkopf. Late in the year it was redeployed to East Prussia before being reorganised and withdrawn for use in the Ardennes Offensive. It was assigned to Hasso von Manteuffel's 5th Panzer Army.\n\nAfter the defeat of the Ardennes offensive in the Battle of the Bulge, the Corps was redeployed against the Soviet offensives in Pomerania as part of the newly organised 11th SS Panzer Army, Army Group Vistula. It was employed in Operation Solstice, the failed counter-offensive at Stargard against the spearheads of the 1st Belorussian Front. On 27 March the Corps was thrown into a disastrous counter-attack to relieve the fortress of Küstrin, and was almost entirely destroyed.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262401", "title": "Tremadocian", "text": "Tremadocian\n\nThe Tremadocian is the lowest stage of Ordovician. Together with the later Floian stage it forms the Lower Ordovician epoch. The Tremadocian lasted from to million years ago. The base of the Tremadocian is defined as the first appearance of the conodont species \"Iapetognathus fluctivagus\" at the Global Boundary Stratotype Section and Point (GSSP) section on Newfoundland.\n\nThe Tremadocian is named after the village Tremadoc in Wales. The name was proposed by Adam Sedgwick in 1846 (as \"Tremadoc group\").\n\nThe GSSP for the beginning of the Tremadocian is the Greenpoint section () in Gros Morne National Park, in western Newfoundland. It is defined as the first appearance of the conodont species \"Iapetognathus fluctivagus\". This horizon can be found 101.8 m above the Greenpoint section datum within bed number 23. The boundary lies within the Broom Point Member, of the Green Point Formation which is part of the Cow Head Group. The first planktonic graptolites appear 4.8 m above the first appearance of \"Iapetognathus fluctivagus\" at Greenpoint section.\n\nThe Tremadocian ends with the beginning of the Floian which is defined as the first appearance of \"Tetragraptus approximatus\" at the GSSP in Diabasbrottet quarry, Västergötland, Sweden.\n\nIn North America the first stage of the Ordovician is the Gasconadian Stage. In Baltoscandic region the stages corresponding to Tremadocian are Pakerort stage (older) and Varangu stage (younger).\n\nThe Cambrian Stage 10-Tremadocian boundary is marked by the Cambrian-Ordovician extinction event. It led to the extinction of many brachipods, conodonts and severely reduced the number of trilobite species. Overall the amount of biodiversity of the Cambrian was maintained. The evolutionary radiation that would eventually triple the amount of genera during the Ordovician (the Great Ordovician Biodiversification Event) slowly picks up during the Tremadocian.\n\nPlanktonic graptolites, an important index fossil, appear during the Tremadocian.\n\nThe Early Ordovician in general was a time of transgression. The climate was slowly cooling throughout the Ordovician.\n"}
{"id": "2262409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262409", "title": "Guy Bertrand (lawyer)", "text": "Guy Bertrand (lawyer)\n\nGuy Bertrand is a lawyer operating in Quebec City. He is a founding member of the Parti Québécois and ran in the PQ leadership election of 1985. He has been a Quebec sovereigntist of the pur et dur stream for most of his public life, before shifting to the opposite Quebec federalist ideology during the 1990s. He converted back to sovereigntism during the 2000s. He is also the author of \"Enough is enough!\" (translation of the French \"Plaidoyer pour les citoyens\" 'Representing citizens'), where he criticizes the destructive and dishonest tactics of the Quebec separatist movement, but indicates continued support for their ideals.\n\nHe defended Léon Mugesera, well publicized anti-Tutsi speaker of the 1994 Rwandan genocide, and faced accusations from the Barreau du Québec for remarks he made during the Mugasera trial. He accused the Canadian government and the Supreme Court of Canada of giving in to pressure from Jewish organizations, which he claimed wanted Mugasera deported.\n\nIn 2006 Bertrand made a case for Quebec to have its own team in the upcoming 2008 Men's World Ice Hockey Championships being held partly in Quebec City. However, Quebec is not a member of the IIHF and even if admitted, would need to work their way up to the \"A\" Pool of the World Championship from the lowest division. The idea has also not garnered much support among Quebec hockey stars. Top forward Vincent Lecavalier has publicly opposed the idea.\n\nIn October 2007, Bertrand told a provincial commission on reasonable accommodation for cultural minorities that French is threatened by language accommodations. He also claimed that English and multiculturalism in Montreal are undermining French, and that newcomers must acculturate into the majority. Commission co-chairman Charles Taylor reminded Bertrand the commission is about religious accommodations for minorities and not linguistic ones.\n\nBertrand criticized Montreal Canadiens captain Saku Koivu for not being able to speak French, despite having lived in Quebec for quite some time. Bertrand said it \"demonstrates contempt for it\".\n\nIn 2014, three years after having launched his work \"Liberté-Nation\" Bertrand recidivated with a documentary in which he proposes his \"business plan\" to realize the independence of Quebec.\nBertrand, who believes that the initiative of independence must come from the regions, proposes the creation of a federal republic of Quebec in which the 17 regions would exercise the status of autonomous states, but united.\n\nBertrand believes that such a structure would allow making the Quebecois 'nation' a free, modern and prosperous one.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262412", "title": "Kojin Karatani", "text": "Kojin Karatani\n\nKaratani was educated at University of Tokyo, where he received a BA in economics and an MA in English literature. The Gunzō Literary Prize, which he received at the age of 27 for an essay on Natsume Sōseki, was his first critical acclaim as a literary critic. While teaching at Hosei University, Tokyo, he wrote extensively about modernity and postmodernity with a particular focus on language, number, and money, concepts that form the subtitle of one of his central books: \"Architecture as Metaphor\".\n\nIn 1975, he was invited to Yale University to teach Japanese literature as a visiting professor, where he met Paul de Man and Fredric Jameson and began to work on formalism. He started from a study of Natsume Sōseki.\n\nKaratani collaborated with novelist Kenji Nakagami, to whom he introduced the works of Faulkner. With Nakagami, he published \"Kobayashi Hideo o koete\" (\"Overcoming Kobayashi Hideo\"). The title is an ironic reference to “Kindai no chokoku” (\"Overcoming Modernity\"), a symposium held in the summer of 1942 at Kyoto Imperial University (now Kyoto University) at which Hideo Kobayashi (whom Karatani and Nakagami did not hold in great esteem) was a participant.\n\nHe was also a regular member of ANY, the international architects' conference that was held annually for the last decade of the 20th century and that also published an architectural/philosophical series with Rizzoli under the general heading of \"Anyone\".\n\nSince 1990, Karatani has been regularly teaching at Columbia University as a visiting professor.\n\nKaratani founded the (NAM) in Japan in the summer of 2000. NAM was conceived as a counter–capitalist/nation-state association, inspired by the experiment of LETS (Local Exchange Trading Systems, based on non-marketed currency). He was also the co-editor, with Akira Asada, of the Japanese quarterly journal \"Hihyōkūkan\" (\"Critical Space\"), until it ended in 2002.\n\nIn 2006, Karatani retired from the chair of the International Center for Human Sciences at Kinki University, Osaka, where he had been teaching.\n\nKaratani has produced philosophical concepts, such as \"the will to architecture\", which he calls the foundation of all Western thinking, but the best-known of them is probably that of \"Transcritique\", which he proposed in his book \"Transcritique\", where he reads Kant through Marx and vice versa. Writing about \"Transcritique\" in the \"New Left Review\" of January–February 2004, Slavoj Žižek brought Karatani's work to greater critical attention. Žižek borrowed the concept of \"parallax view\" (which is also the title of his review) for the title of his own book.\n\nKaratani has interrogated the possibility of a (de Manian) deconstruction and engaged in a dialogue with Jacques Derrida at the Second International Conference on Humanistic Discourse, organized by the Université de Montréal. Derrida commented on Karatani's paper \"Nationalism and Ecriture\" with an emphasis on the interpretation of his own concept of écriture.\n\nIn English\nIn Japanese\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262431", "title": "Don Horn", "text": "Don Horn\n\nDonald Glenn Horn (born March 9, 1945) is a former American football player, a quarterback in the National Football League for eight seasons with the Green Bay Packers, Denver Broncos, Cleveland Browns, and San Diego Chargers.\n\nBorn in South Gate, California, Horn graduated from Gardena High School in Los Angeles in 1963, where he starred in football and baseball for the Mohicans.\n\nHe briefly attended Washington State University in Pullman and captained the freshman team, then played college football at Harbor Junior College in Los Angeles. Horn transferred to San Diego State College and played under head coach Don Coryell. SDSC was then in the college division of the NCAA, today's Division II, and Horn was an All-American. As a senior, he threw to future NFL receiver Haven Moses, a teammate at Harbor JC.\n\nHorn was a first-round selection in the 1967 NFL/AFL draft, 25th overall, taken by the defending Super Bowl champion Green Bay Packers.\n\nHe served as Bart Starr's back-up in Green Bay for four seasons, although he was in the U.S. Army in 1968 and wasn't activated until hours before the season finale in mid-December. Horn relieved injured back-up Zeke Bratkowski in the first quarter and guided the Packers to a one-point win over the Chicago Bears at Wrigley Field, which denied them the division title.\n\nHorn's greatest game as a professional came in 1969 at Lambeau Field. Playing at home in the season finale on December 21 against the St. Louis Cardinals, he completed 22 of 31 passes for 410 yards, with five touchdown passes and one interception. He started five games in 1969, leading the Packers to a 4–1 record and throwing for 1,500 yards, 11 touchdowns and 11 interceptions. Green Bay finished at 8–6, third place in the Central division, four games behind the Minnesota Vikings (12–2), who clinched the division title in November.\n\nIn September 1970, the 25-year-old Horn filed for bankruptcy in San Diego.\n\nConcurrent with the 1971 NFL draft, newly hired head coach and general manager Dan Devine traded Horn in January 1971 to the Denver Broncos. Horn started nine games (2–6–1) for a 4–9–1 Denver team in 1971, throwing 3 touchdowns against 14 interceptions. After two seasons in Denver under three head coaches, he spent a season each in Cleveland and San Diego.\n\nHorn finished his pro career in 1975 with the Portland Thunder of the soon-defunct World Football League (WFL), where he completed 158 of 272 passes for 1742 yards and 11 TDs and 12 picks. Primarily a reserve as a professional, Horn passed for 3,369 yards and 20 touchdowns in eight NFL seasons.\n\nAfter his playing career ended, Horn entered the real estate business in Colorado.\n\nDuring a conversation in 2008, Horn talked about the excitement he felt when he was drafted by the Green Bay Packers as their first round draft choice with a contract for $15,000 in 1967. As he stated, \"that was over $1,000 a month, something today's players wouldn't even cross the street for.\"\n\nPacker head coach Vince Lombardi told his players that he was aware \"three or four of you are here for the money and are sorry souls.\" Horn responded that the opposite is true today, that only \"three or four are playing now for the love of the game.\"\n"}
{"id": "2262435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262435", "title": "WCTE", "text": "WCTE\n\nWCTE, virtual and UHF digital channel 22, is a Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) member television station licensed to Cookeville, Tennessee, United States and serving the Upper Cumberland region. The station is owned by the Upper Cumberland Broadcast Council. WCTE's studios are located on the campus of Tennessee Technological University in Cookeville, and its transmitter is located northwest of Monterey, Tennessee. Although Cookeville is part of the Nashville market, the station also serves the western fringe of the Knoxville market.\n\nWCTE first signed on the air on August 21, 1978. It was the last in a series of stations launched by the Tennessee Department of Education over a 12-year period, finally bringing public television to the last remaining part of the state that previously had little or no access to it. Some of the western parts of the viewing area could pick up the signal of Nashville's WDCN (now WNPT) when it broadcast on channel 2 from 1962 to 1973, but WDCN's move to the weaker channel 8 in 1973 left most of the territory without PBS service for five years.\n\nIn 1984, the state relinquished WCTE and its other stations to community boards, such as the UCBC.\n\nThe station, like its former sister stations WLJT, WSJK (now known as WETP) and WTCI, emphasizes programming of local interest in addition to carrying a full schedule of PBS programs. The community programming is particularly important because, being a rural, relatively isolated area, the Upper Cumberlands gets little or no coverage from commercial broadcasters in Nashville or Knoxville, the two major media markets nearest the area.\n\nFor some time after the DTV transition in 2009, WCTE broadcast with an effective radiated power (ERP) of 57 kW with an antenna height of 412 meters. Then, a transmitter and antenna upgrade early in 2011 increased ERP to 200 kW with an antenna height of 425 meters.\n\nWCTE's over-the-air (OTA) signal is receivable in central Tennessee and in some adjoining parts of southern central Kentucky.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nWCTE shut down its analog signal, over UHF channel 22, on June 12, 2009, the official date in which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The station's digital signal relocated from its pre-transition UHF channel 52, which was among the high band UHF channels (52-69) that were removed from broadcasting use as a result of the transition, to its former analog-era UHF channel 22.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2262437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262437", "title": "History of Northwest Territories capital cities", "text": "History of Northwest Territories capital cities\n\nThe history of Northwest Territories capital cities begins with the purchase of the Territories by Canada from the Hudson's Bay Company in 1869, and includes a varied and often difficult evolution. Northwest Territories is unique amongst the other provinces and territories of Canada in that it has had seven capital cities in its history. The territory has changed the seat of government for numerous reasons, including civil conflict, development of infrastructure, and a history of significant revisions to its territorial boundaries.\n\nThe result of these changes has been a long and complex road to responsible government. Effectively providing services and representation for the population has been a particular challenge for the Territories' government, a task often complicated by the region's vast and changing geographic area. A small number of communities in Northwest Territories have unsuccessfully tried to become the capital over the years. The territory has had the seat of government outside of its territorial boundaries twice in its history. The only other political division in Canada without a seat of government inside its own boundaries was the defunct District of Keewatin that existed from 1876 until 1905.\n\nThe term \"capital\" refers to cities that have served as home for the Legislative Assembly of Northwest Territories, the legislative branch of Northwest Territories government. In Canada, it is customary for provincial and territorial level government to have the administrative centre of the civil service in the same city as the legislative branch. The Northwest Territories, however, had separate administrative and legislative capitals officially exist between 1911 and 1967. This is the only province or territory in Canadian history to have had such an arrangement.\n\nThe Government of Canada purchased the North-Western Territory and Rupert's Land from the Hudson's Bay Company in 1868, under the terms of the Rupert's Land Act 1868 for £300,000 British pounds. Both purchased territories were largely uninhabited, consisting mostly of uncharted wilderness. After the purchase, the Government decided to merge both of the properties into a single jurisdiction and appoint a single territorial government to run both. The purchase of the two territories added a sizable portion of the current Canadian landmass.\n\nIn 1869, Ontario Member of Parliament William McDougall was appointed as the first Lieutenant Governor of the Northwest Territories and sent to Fort Garry to establish formal governance for Canada. Before his party arrived at the settlement, a small group led by Louis Riel intercepted him near the Ontario border and forced him to turn back because they opposed the transfer to the Canadian government. The inhabitants of the Red River Valley began the Red River Rebellion, delaying formal governance until their demands for provincial status were met.\n\nThe rebellion resulted in the creation of the Province of Manitoba (inclusive of Fort Garry) and a delay in establishing governance in the Territories. In 1870, the Northwest Territories and Manitoba formally entered the Canadian confederation. The two jurisdictions remained partially conjoined: under the \"Temporary Government Act, 1870\". The Temporary North-West Council was appointed in 1872, mainly from members of the new Manitoba Legislative Assembly, with the Lieutenant Governor of Manitoba serving as the leader of the territorial government. The Governor and Council were mandated to govern the Territories through the Manitoba Act and did so from outside of the Northwest Territories. Fort Garry served as the first seat of government for both jurisdictions.\n\nThe temporary government sat for the first time in 1872. It was renewed by federal legislation each year until a permanent solution for governance was decided upon. The federal government renewed the Temporary Council for the last time in 1875 and chose a new location, within the boundaries of the Northwest Territories, to form a new government. Along with the new seat of power, a new council greatly reduced in size was appointed along with a new Lieutenant Governor to specifically lead the Territories without also governing Manitoba.\n\nIn the 1870s, Fort Garry consisted of two distinct settlements. The first site was named Upper Fort Garry, and the secondary site was named Lower Fort Garry, downstream on the Red River. After the territorial government moved, Fort Garry continued to be the seat of government for Manitoba, and for the now defunct District of Keewatin territory between 1876 and 1905. Fort Garry evolved to become modern-day Winnipeg, still the capital of Manitoba, with Lower Fort Garry being declared a national historical site.\n\nThe \"North-West Territories Act, 1875\" dissolved the Temporary North-West Council and appointed a permanent government to take effect on October 7, 1876. The new council governed from Fort Livingstone, an outpost constructed west of the Manitoba border, in modern-day Saskatchewan. Fort Livingstone served as a small frontier outpost and not as a bona fide capital city. The location was chosen by the federal government as a temporary site to establish the new territorial government until the route of the railway was determined.\n\nFort Livingstone was founded in 1875 by the newly created North-West Mounted Police, the predecessor of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, Canada's national police force. The Swan River North-West Mounted Police Barracks, inside Fort Livingstone, became the temporary assembly building for legislative-council sessions as well as the office for the Lieutenant Governor.\n\nThe bulk of the police forces moved out to Fort Macleod in 1876, to crack down on the whisky trade. A year later, Lieutenant Governor David Laird moved the seat of government to Battleford. The decision was based upon the original plans of constructing the Canadian Pacific Railway (CPR) through Battleford.\n\nFort Livingstone continued to serve as a small outpost until being totally destroyed by a prairie grass fire in 1884. The nearest modern settlement to the original Fort Livingstone site is Pelly, Saskatchewan, to the south. The fort is sometimes referred to as Fort Pelly or Swan River. The Fort Livingstone site is marked with a plaque as was declared a Saskatchewan provincial heritage site and contains no resident population.\n\nThe Northwest Territories government moved to Battleford in 1877 on the order of the Lieutenant Governor. Battleford was supposed to be the permanent capital of the Territories. The town was chosen because it was expected to be linked with the Canadian Pacific Railway.\n\nThe government in Battleford would see significant milestones towards attaining responsible government for the Northwest Territories. For the first time, the territory had democratically elected members join the appointed members in the assembly. Elections in the territory became a reality after the passage of the \"Northwest Territories election ordinance 1880\". The first election took place in 1881, after electoral districts were created by royal proclamations, issued the order of the Lieutenant Governor. Battleford hosted the first official royal visit in western Canada, when the Marquis of Lorne and Princess Louise Caroline Alberta toured the territories in 1881.\n\nThe first Northwest Territories legislature building, and residence for the Lieutenant Governor named \"NWT Government House\", was completed and used by the territorial government until 1883. After the government moved the building stood as a historical site until it was destroyed in a fire in 2003.\n\nAfter consultation with Canadian Pacific Railway officials, Lieutenant Governor Edgar Dewdney made the decision to move the capital to Regina, also in present-day Saskatchewan, in June 1882. The decision to move the capital was controversial with the public because Edgar Dewdney owned real estate in Regina. He was accused of having conflicted interests between his private affairs and the needs of the government.\n\nAfter Edgar Dewdney ordered that the government be moved south to meet the railway in Regina, it was confirmed as the new territorial capital on March 27, 1883. Construction of a new legislature began. In Regina, the government continued to grow as the size of the settlement increased rapidly. The legislature had the most sitting members in Northwest Territories history after the fifth general election in 1902.\n\nThe government in Regina struggled to deliver services to the vast territory. The influx of settlers and responsibility for the Klondike, as well as constant fighting with the federal government over limited legislative powers and minimal revenue collection, hampered the effectiveness of government. The government during this period slowly released powers to the elected members. In 1897, after control of the executive council was ceded to elected members from the Lieutenant-Governors, a short-lived period of party politics evolved that challenged the consensus model of government that had been used since 1870.\nThe territorial government under the leadership of Premier Frederick Haultain struck a deal with the federal Government of Canada in early 1905 to bring provincial powers to the territories. This led to the creation of the provinces of Saskatchewan and Alberta from the southernmost and most populous areas of the territory. The Northwest Territories, reduced to its northern, lightly populated hinterland, continued to exist under the 1870s constitutional status under control of the federal government. A new council was convened in Ottawa, Ontario to deal with the region.\n\nThe Territorial Administration Building was declared a historical site by the Saskatchewan government after it was restored by the Saskatchewan Government in 1979, the building remains standing to this day. The territorial government would not have another permanent legislature of its own design until 1993. After 1905, Regina continued to serve as capital for the province of Saskatchewan.\n\nIn 1905, under the direction of Wilfrid Laurier, the Northwest Territories seat of government was moved to Ottawa, Ontario, the capital of Canada. This change was made when Northwest Territories defaulted back to the 1870 constitutional status after Alberta and Saskatchewan were sectioned off from the territory on September 1, 1905. After the populated regions of the territory were made into their own jurisdictions, there were very few settlements left in the territory with any significant population or infrastructure. The non-Inuit population was estimated to total around 1,000. Inuit were not counted at the time because they had no status under Canadian law, and were not yet settled in towns or villages.\n\nIn the period without a sitting council from 1905 to 1921, the government of the Territories was small but still active. A small civil service force was sent to Fort Smith to set the town up as the new administrative capital in 1911. A budget to provide minimal services was still given by the federal government. Commissioner Frederick D. White administered the territories day-to-day operations during that period. During this 16-year lapse in legislative government, no new laws were created, and the Territories and its population were severely neglected even with the services provided at the time.\n\nThe first session of the new council was called to order in 1921, a full 16 years after the government was dissolved in Regina. This new government contained no serving member who was resident in the Territories. The council during this period was primarily composed of high-level civil servants who lived and worked in Ottawa. The first person to sit on the council since 1905 who actually resided from within the Territories was John G. McNiven who was appointed in 1947.\n\nThe Ottawa-based council eventually grew sensitive to the needs of the territory residents. Democracy returned to the territories in the sixth general election in 1951. After the election, the council was something of a vagabond body, with alternating sittings in Ottawa, and various communities in Northwest Territories. The council held meetings in school gymnasiums, community halls, board rooms, or any suitable infrastructure. The council even transported ceremonial implements to conduct meetings with such as the speakers chair and mace. Both are traditional artifacts common to Westminster style parliaments.\n\nLegislative sessions held in Ottawa were conducted in an office building on Sparks Street. The Northwest Territories government continues to hold an office in Ottawa on Sparks Street to this day. In 1965, a federal government commission was set up to determine a new home for the government and the future of the territory. The seat of government was moved back inside the territories to Yellowknife, after it was selected capital in 1967.\n\nFort Smith became the official administration and transportation hub for the Northwest Territories in 1911. This marked the first services provided by the territorial government in six years. The first services included an agent from the Department of Indian Affairs, a medical doctor, and a Royal Canadian Mounted Police station.\n\nFort Smith was chosen to house the civil service because of its geographical location and state of development. The community was one of the few that had steamboat service from the railheads in Alberta and access to the vast waterways in the territory. The community was the easiest for the government to access, and the most well developed community, closest to Ottawa.\n\nFort Smith housed the civil service working in the Territories officially until 1967. The town continued to host the civil service for many years after Yellowknife was picked as capital, because the infrastructure was not yet in place in the new capital city at the time.\n\nThe \"Advisory Commission on the Development of Government in the Northwest Territories\", commonly called the Carrothers Commission for its chair, Alfred Carrothers, was struck by the Government of Canada in 1965. The Carrothers Commission marked a significant turning point in modern Northwest Territories history. The Carrothers Commission was tasked to evaluate and recommend changes to the Northwest Territories to deal with an array of outstanding issues regarding self-government in the north. One of the more visible and lasting effects of the Carrothers Commission was to choose a new capital city for the territorial government.\n\nThe Carrothers Commission, for the first time, gave some voice to residents in the Northwest Territories through extensive consultations with the territorial population. In prior years, the decision to change the seat of government had always been made without consulting Northwest Territories residents. Edgar Dewdney, for example, who made the decision to change the capital from Battleford to Regina, faced controversy because he owned property in Regina. After the territorial government moved to Ottawa, the government was often resented for being so far away.\n\nThe Carrothers Commission spent two years visiting nearly every community in the territory and consulting with residents, community leaders, business people, and territorial politicians. The Carrothers Commission investigated and considered five communities for the capital: Hay River, Fort Simpson, Fort Smith, Inuvik and Yellowknife.\n\nMany people in the Northwest Territories believed that Fort Smith would win since it already housed the Territories' civil service.\n\nYellowknife officially became the capital on September 18, 1967, after the Carrothers commission chose it for its central location, transportation links, industrial base and residents' preferences.\n\nYellowknife, in 1967, was not yet ready to serve as home for the government. During the years that it took for the capital's infrastructure to slowly develop, most of the civil service remained in Fort Smith for many years and the governing Council continued its practice of holding legislative sessions all over the territory for a number of years.\n\nThe Northwest Territories marked a new era when the legislative council moved into a newly constructed legislature building on November 17, 1993. The new legislature was the first building built specifically for the Northwest Territories government since the government sat in Regina 88 years earlier. The legislature building was constructed to feature themes derived from the Inuit culture, which signaled that the government was sensitive to the ethnicity of the resident population.\n\nThe modern day territorial government has matured in Yellowknife to become effective and responsible. The government in Yellowknife had largely gained back its powers on par with the pre-1905 government that was dissolved during creation of Alberta and Saskatchewan. The civil service has been effectively consolidated into the city of Yellowknife; and has gained control over administering its own elections from Elections Canada. Education is now under the jurisdiction of the territorial government and the territory has most powers afforded to the rest of the provinces. There has even talk by the Federal government of the territories gaining provincial status in the future.\n\nAs chronicled above, all seven capitals throughout the history of the Northwest Territories were chosen by some form of external government decision, though the Carrothers Commission did consult with the territorial population to guide its decision.\n\nAfter the selection of Yellowknife as the capital in 1967, many residents in the eastern Arctic continued to feel unrepresented by the territorial government, and many movements and groups were formed to remedy the situation. Lessons had been learned from the historical changes in the Northwest Territories' seat of power, resulting in a number of territorial democratic processes leading to the creation of the new territory of Nunavut in 1999, formed from the eastern half of the Northwest Territories.\n\nIn 1976, as part of the land claims negotiations between the Inuit Tapiriit Kanatami population and the Government of Canada, the parties discussed division of the Northwest Territories to provide a separate territory for the Inuit. In 1982, a plebiscite on division was held throughout the Northwest Territories, in which a majority of the residents voted in favour of division.\n\nThe land claims agreement was completed in September 1992 and ratified by a majority of voters. On July 9, 1993, the Nunavut Land Claims Agreement Act and the Nunavut Act were passed by the Canadian Parliament.\n\nIn December, 1995, the Nunavut capital plebiscite was held, and the voters in the future Nunavut territory chose Iqaluit as their capital city, defeating Rankin Inlet. Iqaluit became the official capital on April 1, 1999, when Nunavut separated from the Northwest Territories.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262442", "title": "Neighbourhoods of Buenos Aires", "text": "Neighbourhoods of Buenos Aires\n\nBuenos Aires, autonomous city and capital of Argentina, is composed of forty-eight neighborhoods (locally known as barrios). Since 2008, the city is also legally divided into communes, each one including one or more \"barrios\". Among the most visited and populated \"barrios\" are Palermo, Recoleta, Puerto Madero, Belgrano, San Telmo, La Boca, Monserrat and Caballito. Sectors of the city are also traditionally known as neighborhoods by the inhabitants of Buenos Aires, but not officially by the authorities of the city; some examples include Chinatown, Barrio Norte and the Microcentro.\n\nIn alphabetical order, with the corresponding population and the commune they are grouped in.\n\nThe name Barrio Norte refers to the area around Avenida Santa Fe, encompassing parts of Retiro, Recoleta, and Palermo.\n\nThe name \"Barrio Sur\" was used in the past to encompass the southern neighborhoods. This name has mostly fallen out of use, but survives in the lyrics of the tango Sur, which refer to specific places in Nueva Pompeya and Boedo, and in the short story \"The South\" by Jorge Luis Borges, where the conventional wisdom is recalled that \"the South begins when crossing Rivadavia Avenue\".\n\n\"Abasto\" is sometimes used to refer to the zone around the Abasto market (now a shopping mall), many times in association with the life of Carlos Gardel. It encompasses north-western Balvanera and north-eastern Almagro.\n\n\"Congreso\" is the area around Congress square, encompassing southeastern Balvanera, northern San Cristóbal and western Monserrat.\n\n\"Catalinas Norte\" is the high-rise district next to Retiro transportation center and to the financial district, while \"Catalinas Sur\" is used (quite rarely) for the lowlands south of San Telmo (notably the area around Cosme Argerich hospital and at the bottom of Parque Lezama).\n\nPalermo is the largest barrio by area and has several informal subdivisions; Palermo Viejo is the name usually given to the area between Coronel Diaz, Cordoba, Scalabrini Ortiz and Güemes; Palermo Chico and Barrio Parque the most upmarket part of Palermo is on Palermo's north-eastern edge, includes the National Museum of Decorative Arts and MALBA, the Museum of Latin American Art and many of the wealthy and famous old homes some now used as Ambassador's residences; Palermo Soho, the city's fashion district, refers to Plaza Julio Cortázar and its surroundings; Palermo Hollywood is a distinctive quarter located in the northern edge of the barrio where radio and TV stations, movie producers and workshops have settled in the late 1990s. Las Cañitas refers to a few blocks around the Campo Argentino de Polo, crowded with trendy bars, fancy restaurants and nightclubs. \"Palermo Queens\" is used sometimes to refer to the parts of Villa Crespo close to Palermo Viejo. Other than Palermo Viejo and Palermo Chico, these names are of recent vintage (1990s and later) and are related to the gentrification process that Palermo and its peripheral areas are undergoing.\n\n\"Parque Centenario\" is sometimes used to refer to the area around \"Centenario\" park, at the limit of Almagro, Caballito, and Villa Crespo.\n\nThe southern parts of Flores were reclaimed from swampland, and the names \"Bajo Flores\" and \"Bañado de Flores\" are used for these areas.\n\nWithin Belgrano, there are Belgrano \"C\" and \"R\" (widely and incorrectly believed to signify \"commercial\" and \"residential\", respectively) and Bajo Belgrano (\"Belgrano lowlands\"), which since the late 1990s includes a small Chinatown.\n\nA tango song named \"Cien barrios porteños\" (The 100 barrios of Buenos Aires), sung by Alberto Castillo, is sometimes invoked (informally) to support the claim that there are indeed a hundred neighborhoods in the city. This number may be reached by including some suburbs in the tally.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262448", "title": "John F. MacGregor", "text": "John F. MacGregor\n\nJohn Frederick MacGregor (born 1943 in Ontario, Canada) is a statistician whose work in the field of statistical process control has received significant recognition. His pioneering work was in the area of latent variable/multivariate analysis (MVA) methods (principal components analysis and partial least squares) applied to industrial processes.\n\n\nHe received his PhD degree in Statistics, and his M.S. degrees in both Statistics and in Chemical Engineering from the University of Wisconsin–Madison, and his Bachelor of Engineering degree from McMaster University in Canada. At Wisconsin, he worked under the statistician George EP Box.\n\nMacGregor is a Fellow of the American Statistical Association, and has received many awards for his work in applied statistics and chemometrics, among them, the prestigious Shewhart Medal and the W.G. Hunter Award from the American Society for Quality, and the Herman Wold Medal from the Swedish Chemical Society. The Canadian Journal of Chemical Engineering dedicated the October 2008 edition to MacGregor in celebration of his 65th birthday. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research published a Festschrift in his honour in September 2013, in honour of his 70th birthday.\n\nHe holds the title of \"Distinguished University Professor\" (the highest honor awarded to faculty at McMaster University) as well as the Dofasco Chair in Process Automation and Information Technology at McMaster University. He is a cofounder of the McMaster Advanced Control Consortium that is sponsored by many international companies.\n\nIn 2002, MacGregor established ProSensus Inc., a company that he spun off from the McMaster Advanced Control Consortium and incorporated in 2004. MacGregor continues to consult and teach courses through ProSensus.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262451", "title": "Man in a Suitcase", "text": "Man in a Suitcase\n\nMan in a Suitcase is a British television private eye thriller series produced by Lew Grade's ITC Entertainment. It originally aired in the United Kingdom on ITV from 27 September 1967 to 17 April 1968. ABC broadcast episodes of \"Man in a Suitcase\" in the United States from 3 May to 20 September 1968.\n\n\"Man in a Suitcase\" was effectively a replacement for \"Danger Man\", whose production had been curtailed when its star Patrick McGoohan had decided to create his own series, \"The Prisoner\". Many of the \"Danger Man\" production crew moved over to \"Man in a Suitcase\", which was initially to be titled \"McGill\" after its lead character. As with several ITC productions, the series was to use an American star in an attempt to boost the show's sales in the US. An early choice was Jack Lord, but the part of McGill eventually went to Richard Bradford, a method actor who was spotted after appearing opposite Marlon Brando in the 1966 movie \"The Chase\". The series was created by Richard Harris and Dennis Spooner. Neither writer had any further involvement with the series—Spooner was mostly involved with producing his own series, \"The Champions\"—and the lead character changed somewhat from their original conception of a hard-boiled, wise-cracking detective.\n\nMcGill was a former US intelligence agent, who had been forced to resign from the service six years before the opening episode, having been practically accused of treason. Unable to clear his name or return to the USA, McGill makes ends meet by working as a travelling private detective and bounty hunter based in Britain, living out of his suitcase (hence the title). His cases generally took him to different parts of Europe, and on a couple of occasions to Africa.\n\nThe theme tune was composed by Ron Grainer—it was later reused as the theme for Chris Evans' entertainment show \"TFI Friday\". The incidental music was supplied by Albert Elms.\n\nIn the pilot episode, \"Man from the Dead\", the reason for McGill's disgrace is revealed. During an assignment six years earlier, he discovered that a top western scientist called LeFarbe was preparing to defect to the USSR. Though he planned to intercept the defector, he was ordered to stand down by his superior Harry Thyssen. Shortly afterwards, LeFarbe went over to the Soviets. Accused of complicity in the defection, McGill was unable to call on Thyssen to clear his name, as his superior had been drowned in a sailing accident, and he was forced to resign from the service amid much negative publicity. Six years on, McGill discovers that Thyssen is still alive, his death having been faked. He is now working as a sailor on a Russian freighter, in which capacity he acts as a courier of secret information from LeFarbe. The scientist is in fact a double agent, now highly placed in the Soviet scientific community to provide valuable intelligence. As McGill's diligence nearly blew open this important operation, his superiors had no choice but to make him a very public scapegoat, to maintain the illusion of the LeFarbe defection as genuine. On the series's first broadcast on ATV Midlands \"Man from the Dead\" was screened as the sixth episode; \"Brainwash\", thought to be a stronger tale, was in fact broadcast first.\n\nBuilding on this foundation, \"Man in a Suitcase\" is a series very much about betrayal, mistrust and deceit. Because of his unofficial, semi-legal status, McGill often finds himself being hired by unscrupulous clients and unwittingly used for criminal ends, or set up as a fall guy. On several occasions, characters from his past with US intelligence draw him into dangerous situations; and he can also be blackmailed or tricked into participating in espionage missions, as he is the perfect deniable operative. A number of the series writers were new to ITC, and this resulted in a show that was markedly different from the usual light-hearted adventure and espionage fantasy of such series. It highlighted character-based drama grounded in a cynical view of the real world, making it more akin to the spy novels of John le Carré and Len Deighton.\n\nAs developed by Bradford, the characterisation of McGill is complex. As a man who feels betrayed by life and his country, he can appear outwardly as surly, moody and uncommunicative, but this masks a sensitive interior. McGill feels compassion for those who were the victims in his cases, and would try to help them, often at his own cost.\n\nThe level of violence portrayed in the show was unprecedented for an ITC series. This was partly because of Bradford's concerns that the stories and characters should remain real. Unlike most TV action heroes of the time, McGill would not get cleanly knocked unconscious and then recover without effect; Bradford took great pains to depict the character as wounded and concussed. In addition to beatings, McGill is several times shot and stabbed, and ends more than one episode recovering in hospital.\n\nOne gimmick of the show is that McGill's first name is never revealed. Some close friends instead know him as \"Mac\". Note, though, in the episode 'Who's Mad Now?', McGill goes to pick up his mail, and one of the letters is clearly addressed to \"R. McGill Esq.\" \n\nAs with the other ITC series of the era, although the plots took McGill far and wide around the world, in reality the majority of filming was done in and around Pinewood Studios. The series was unusual in its use of night-time filming (as opposed to the day-for-night approach common at the time). Actual locations included London's South Bank and White City Stadium in \"Man from the Dead\", Albert Bridge, London in \"The Bridge\" and Kingston upon Thames in \"Day of Execution\", the latter a setting for a remarkable (for its time) night-time car chase.\n\nRichard Bradford is the only regular actor in the series. Guest stars include some ITC regulars such as Stuart Damon, Jane Merrow, Basil Dignam, Ed Bishop, Anton Rodgers, George Sewell, Philip Madoc and John Gregson; and such actors as Barbara Shelley, Rodney Bewes, Felicity Kendal, Rupert Davies, Colin Blakely, Ray McAnally, Bernard Lee, Jacqueline Pearce, Edward Fox, Sam Kydd and Donald Sutherland.\n\nAirdate and episode order is for ATV Midlands; other ITV regions varied date and order.\n\nThe two-part story \"Variation on a Million Bucks\" was edited into a feature film for theatrical release in Europe, entitled \"To Chase a Million\".\n\nThe entire series has been released on DVD in Britain in a box-set by Network. There are eight discs (Region 2 UK). Extras consist of commercial bumpers, both US and UK, a music-only track on one or two episodes, and an interview with series star Richard Bradford where he sometimes vehemently describes the working conditions and former producers of the show.\n\nPrior to this, Carlton Video had released a single disc with the first two episodes.\n\nThe series is also available in Australia from Umbrella Entertainment in a box set.\n\nAcorn Media released both seasons in two four-disc, Region 1 box sets in 2010.\n\nIn October 2017 Network DVD announced that the series was to be issued in a UK Blu-ray edition, with the first volume due for release in December 2017.\n\nThe Police included a song of the same title on their 1980 album \"Zenyatta Mondatta\".\n\nBritish sludge metal band GZR released an eponymous homage to the series as the first track on their 1997 album \"Black Science\".\n\nBritish comedian Ted Chippington's 1986 debut album on Birmingham's Vindaloo record label was also entitled \"Man in a Suitcase\".\n\nWriter Rodney Marshall and television historian Matthew Lee produced the first critical guide to the series in 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262452", "title": "Miracle (Whitney Houston song)", "text": "Miracle (Whitney Houston song)\n\n\"Miracle\" is the third single from Whitney Houston's third studio album, \"I'm Your Baby Tonight\". It was written and produced by L.A. Reid and Babyface. The single reached number nine on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100 (becoming her 13th top ten hit), second on the R&B Chart, and fourth on the Adult Contemporary Chart.\n\nDuring an interview with Jet Magazine on its June 14, 1991 issue, Houston said that she did not intend the song or the video to be about abortion: “I think about the air we breathe, the earth we live on. I think about our children. I think about a lot of things, things God put here for us to have, things that we need and we take for granted. I think all of these things are miracles and I think we should try to take better care of them,” she notes.\n\nRolling Stone editor James Hunter praised Houston's performance of the ballad: \"when L.A. and BabyFace follow her into ballad-land on the despondent \"Miracle,\" Houston's own moods call the shots more clearly.\" Allmusic editor Ashley S. Battel called this ballad a high point of the album and praised the lyrics \"the powerful verses surrounding a love lost through one's own devices in 'Miracle.'\" Entertainment Weekly editor David Browne called the melody of this song \"indiscernible\" and that the song itself is \"nonentity.\"\n\n\"Miracle\" entered The Billboard Hot 100 at 63, and stayed on the chart for 14 weeks. On the Radio & Records Airplay chart the single debuted at #39 on the December 4, 1991 issue, after four weeks on the chart it reached and peaked at #12 staying there for two weeks, the song stayed on the top 20 of the chart for five weeks and remained on it for nine weeks.\n\nThe video shows Houston by herself in an empty studio singing the song. As she sings the first verse of the song, sad images of people facing prison sentences, living in poverty and having an abortion are shown. During the second verse, the images shown gradually changes to a lighter tone with pictures of children growing up, winning a competition, graduating school and enjoying their lives as young adults. The video ends with various pictures of children smiling.\n\nDue to the manner of the music video, it was widely believed that the song was about a girl who had an abortion but later feels she made a mistake. Houston, however denied it during an interview with Jet Magazine.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262454", "title": "Chandi", "text": "Chandi\n\nChandi (Sanskrit: ) or Chandika () is a Hindu deity. Chandika is a form of Parvati's alter ego, Durga. She represents the power of Shakti. Chandika is a powerful form of Parvati, who manifested to destroy evil.\n\n or is the name by which the Supremely divine is referred to in Devi Mahatmya. Chandi represents the shakti or power of Brahman. The word \"Chanda\" hints at extraordinary traits and thus refers to the Brahman, who is extraordinary due to its complete independence with respect to time and space. The word Chandi also refers to the fiery power of anger of the Brahman. Bhaskararaya, a leading authority on matters concerning Devi worship, defines Chandi as 'the angry, terrible or passionate one'. While scholars debate whether an old Goddess was Sanskritized or a suppressed Goddess was reclaimed, the fact remains that since the very early days, the Devi was worshiped in the subcontinent regardless of whether she appears as a supreme deity in Brahminic texts. Scholars who trace her tracks show that she was very much a part of an early theistic impulse as it was being crystallised in the Indic mind. C. Mackenzie Brown writes:\n\n\"Hymns to goddesses in the late portions of the great Mahabharata epic and in the Harivamsa (AD 100-300) reveal the increasing importance of female deities in Brahminical devotional life.… The re-emergence of the divine feminine in the Devi-Mahatmya was thus both the culmination of centuries-long trends and the inspirational starting point for new investigations into the nature of feminine transcendence.\"\n\nWhen she does appear in \"Markandeya Purana\", in the section known as Chandi or The Devi Mahatmya, she proclaims her preeminence:\n\nThis text recounts the tale of male demons and their destruction by the Great Goddess and traces its lineage through the Devīsūkta or the Vac Sukta in The \"Rigveda\" and also connects with the Samkhya Prakriti to establish itself as a canonical text for the Shaktas.\n\nChandi, the fiercest form of the Goddess, who is the main deity of the famous Devi Mahatmya, a great poem of seven hundred verses (also called Durga Saptasati or Chandi) which celebrates the destruction of demons. As Chandi or the destroyer of opposition, she can be invoked for removing obstacles to allow us to attain any of the four goals of life.\n\nThe designation of Chandi or Chandika is used twenty-nine times in the Devi Mahatmya, which is agreed by many scholars to have had originated in Bengal, the primary seat of the Shakta or Goddess tradition and tantric sadhana since ancient times. It is the most common epithet used for the Goddess. In Devi Mahatmya, Chandi, Chandika, Ambika and Durga have been used synonymously.\n\nThe basis for Chandi worship is found in Devi Bhagavata as well as in the Markandeya Purana, which contains the well known Saptashati. This narrates the three tales of Chandika fighting and destroying the evil forces in the forms of Madhu, Kaithabha, Mahishasura and Shumbha & Nishumbha. These stories are narrated in thirteen chapters in the form of seven hundred stanzas or half stanzas. Each of these is considered as an independent mantra by repeating which one attains profound benefits. In addition, the mantra prescribed for this is what is known as Navakshari, the nine lettered mantra that has its basis in the Atharva Shirsha Upanishad, known as the Devi Upanishad.\n\nGoddess Chandi is associated with the 9 lettered Navakshari Mantra. It is also called Navarna Mantra or Navavarna Mantra. It is one of the principal mantras in Shakti Worship apart from the Sri Vidhya Mantras. It is customary to chant this mantra when chanting the Devi Mahatmya. She is supposed to live in a place called Mahakal, which is close to Kailasa.\n\nChandika is an avatar of Durga. The three principal forms of Durga worshipped are Mahagauri, Chandika and Aparajita. Of these, Chandika has two forms called Chandi and Chamunda who is created by the goddess Kaushiki for killing demons Chanda and Munda\n\nShe is known as the supreme goddess Mahishasuramardini or Durga who slayed the demon Mahishasura. She has been affiliated with and also considered as Katyayini, Kaushiki or Ambika who killed Shumbha, Nishumbha and their fellow demons. \"The great Goddess was born from the energies of the male divinities when the devas became impotent in the long-drawn-out battle with the asuras. All the energies of the Gods became united and became supernova, throwing out flames in all directions. Then that unique light, pervading the Three Worlds with its lustre, combined into one, and became a female form.\"\n\n\"Parvati projected an overwhelming omnipotence. The three-eyed goddess was adorned with the crescent moon. Her multiple arms held auspicious weapons and emblems, jewels and ornaments, garments and utensils, garlands and rosaries of beads, all offered by the gods. With her golden body blazing with the splendour of a thousand suns, seated on her lion vehicle, Chandi is one of the most spectacular of all personifications of Cosmic energy.\"\n\nIn other scriptures, Chandi is portrayed as \"assisting\" Kali in her battle with demon Raktabija. While Kali drank Raktabija's blood, which created new demons from his own blood on falling on the ground; Chandi would destroy the armies of demons created from his blood and finally killed Raktabija herself. In Skanda Purana, this story is retold and another story of Mahakali (Parvati) killing demons Chanda and Munda is added.\n\nChandi Homa is one of the most popular Homas in Hindu religion. It is performed across India during various festivals, especially during the Navaratri. Chandi Homa is performed by reciting verses from the Durga Sapthasathi and offering oblations into the sacrificial fire. It could also be accompanied by the Navakshari Mantra. Kumari Puja, Suvasini Puja also form a part of the ritual.\n\nThe dhyana sloka preceding the Middle episode of Devi Mahatmya the iconographic details are given. The Goddess is described as having vermilion complexion, eighteen arms bearing string of beads, battle axe, mace, arrow, thunderbolt, lotus, bow, water-pot, cudgel, lance, sword, shield, conch, bell, wine-cup, trident, noose and the discus (sudarsana). She has a complexion of coral and is seated on a lotus. In some temples the images of Maha Kali, Maha Lakshmi, and Maha Saraswati are kept separately. The Goddess is also portrayed as four armed in many temples.\n\nAs Purnachandi, she is visualised as both the essence as well as transcendence i.e. the Brahman; who is beyond Laghu Chandika, who is of the combined form of Parvati, Lakshmi and Saraswati as represented in Durga Saptashati of Markandeya Purana. As Purnachandi, she sports with her sixteen hands, sword, arrow, spear, shakti, chakra, mace, rosary, khartal, phalaka, karmuka, nagapasha, axe, damaru, skull, boon gesture and protection gesture.\n\nChandi is one of the most popular folk deities in Bengal, and a number of poems and literary compositions in Bengali called \"Chandi Mangala Kavyas\" were written from 13th century to early 19th century. These had the effect of merging the local folk and tribal goddesses with mainstream\nHinduism. The \"Mangal kavyas\" often associate Chandi with goddess Kali or Kalika and recognise her as a consort of Shiva and mother of Ganesha and Kartikeya, which are characteristics of goddesses like Parvati and Durga. The concept of Chandi as the supreme Goddess also underwent a change. The worship of the goddess became heterogeneous in nature.\n\nChandi is associated with good fortune. Her auspicious forms like \"Mangal Chandi\", \"Sankat Mangal Chandi\", \"Rana Chandi\" bestow joy, riches, children, good hunting and victory in battles while other forms like \"Olai Chandi\" cure diseases like cholera, plague and cattle diseases.\n\nThese are almost all village and tribal Goddesses with the name of the village or tribe being added onto the name Chandi. The most important of these Goddesses is Mongol Chandi who is worshipped in the entire state and also in Assam. Here the word \"Mongol\" means auspicious or benign.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2262461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262461", "title": "Scotti Brothers Records", "text": "Scotti Brothers Records\n\nScotti Brothers Records (sometimes spelled Scotti Bros. Records) was a California-based record label founded by Tony and Ben Scotti in 1974. Their first success was releasing singles and albums from teen pop star Leif Garrett. They later helped launch the careers of David Hallyday, Felony, Survivor, and \"Weird Al\" Yankovic. They also signed James Brown to a recording contract in the mid-1980s as well as the UK act Flag featuring David Cairns from Secret Affair and Archie Brown. Former \"Life Goes On\" star Tommy Puett released his only album \"Life Goes On\" in 1990 under Scotti Brothers Records.\n\nThe label, as well as the Scotti brothers themselves, ran an independent motion picture production company Scotti Bros. Pictures, and was associated with the television syndication company All American Television (which later became part of All American Communications after becoming involved in the production and distribution of \"Baywatch\"; some Scotti Bros. recording artists made occasional guest spots on the show) since the company's inception. In 1996, Scotti Brothers Records was renamed All American Music Group.\n\nAfter Pearson PLC purchased All American in 1997, the Scotti Brothers contracts, masters, and catalogs were sold to Zomba Records subsidiary Volcano Entertainment, which was later bought by Sony Music Entertainment. All Scotti Bros. artists were dropped, with the exception of Yankovic and Survivor, who were switched to Volcano.\n\nThe Scotti Brothers Records catalog is now wholly owned by Volcano Records.\n\nWhen it was founded in 1974, and for the next eight years, the label was distributed by Atlantic - with which Yankovic would come into conflict over his song \"You're Pitiful\".\n"}
{"id": "2262462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262462", "title": "Northwest High School (Maryland)", "text": "Northwest High School (Maryland)\n\nNorthwest High School (NWHS) is a public high school in Germantown, Maryland. It is part of the Montgomery County Public Schools public school system. As of 2019, its enrollment was around 2,650 students. It is one of two high schools in Germantown, the other being Seneca Valley High School, with which Northwest shares an athletic rivalry. The school also serves small sections of the cities of Gaithersburg and Darnestown.\n\nThe school underwent an expansion project that was completed during the summer of 2006.\n\nNorthwest's school mascot is the jaguar and its colors are black, silver and white.\n\nNorthwest High School offers a number of honors and Advanced Placement courses, along with American Sign Language (ASL) French and Spanish languages. The school is competitive academically, with average SAT scores above the national mean.\n\nNorthwest hosts the Ulysses Signature Program, a four-year research-based program in which students develop projects focused on one of the Ulysses Project themes: Arts and Humanities; Public Policy and Public Service; and/or Math, Science and Technology. Students are recommended for the rigorous research program as freshmen and remain in the program throughout their senior years.\n\n\nStudents attending Northwest come from parts of Germantown, Boyds, Gaithersburg, and Darnestown, as well as very small portions of Poolesville and Potomac.\n\nNorthwest is fed by three area middle schools and eight area elementary schools in the following feeder patterns:\n\n\nAll teams have varsity and junior varsity teams with the exception of tennis, golf, swim and dive, indoor track and field, poms, and boys'/coed volleyball. JV lacrosse teams were added to Montgomery County athletics in 2008.\n\n\nCheerleading\n\n\nNorthwest High School has sports rivalries, particularly in football, with neighboring Seneca Valley High School, and Quince Orchard High School. The annual football game between Northwest and Seneca Valley is known as \"The Battle for the King's Trophy\" or the \"Battle for Germantown\". The football rivalry with Quince Orchard is widely considered one of the best in the state, with each school winning three state tiles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262465", "title": "SpeedPost", "text": "SpeedPost\n\nSpeedPost or Speed Post is the trade name or brand name for a high-speed postal service provided by several postal companies around the world. It is Taiwan Post's high-speed domestic postal service in Taiwan, Hongkong Post's international courier post service (with the generic name \"EMS\"), India Post's local and international postal as well as money transfer service, as well as SingPost's local and international express and trackable postal and courier service\n"}
{"id": "2262479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262479", "title": "KLGA", "text": "KLGA\n\nKLGA may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2262480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262480", "title": "Royal Canadian Academy of Arts", "text": "Royal Canadian Academy of Arts\n\nThe Royal Canadian Academy of Arts (RCA) is a Canadian arts-related organization that was founded in 1880.\n\nThe title of Royal Canadian Academy of Arts was received from Queen Victoria on 16 July 1880. The Governor General of Canada, the Marquess of Lorne, was its first patron. The painter Lucius O’Brien was its first President.\n\nThe objects of the Academy as stated in the 1881 publication of the organization's constitution were three-fold:\n\nIn the same publication, two levels of membership were described: Academicians and Associates. No more than forty individuals could be Academicians at one time, while the number of Associates was not limited. All Academicians were required to give an example of their work to the collection of the National Gallery. They were also permitted to show more pieces in Academy-sponsored exhibitions than Associates.\n\nThe inaugural exhibition was held in Ottawa and the first Academicians were inducted, including the first woman Academician, Charlotte Schreiber. Through the next 10 years, the Academy held annual exhibitions, often in cooperation with regional artists' societies. Exhibitions in Toronto were a joint project of the Academy and the Ontario Society of Artists, while those held in Montreal were held in partnership with the Montreal Artists Association. Exhibitions were also held in St. John, New Brunswick, and Halifax, Nova Scotia. Additional academicians and associates were added each year until the membership had more than doubled by 1890. Members were drawn from all areas of the country and included anglophones and francophones. Men continued to out-number women and those female members were identified as painters not as designers or architects.\n\nAs Academicians joined, they donated an example of their work to the National Gallery of Canada, building the collection of the as-yet unincorporated institution. A temporary home was found for the collection in a building next to the Supreme Court of Canada and the first curator, John W. H. Watts, RCA was appointed to begin organizing exhibitions.\n\nThe third objective—to encourage the teaching of art and design in Canada—was found to be more challenging to address with the limited financial resources available to them.\n\nCanadian landscape painter Homer Watson was elected as an associate, became a full member and later became president of the Academy.\n\nThe centennial year of the Academy was honoured by a 35 cent, 3 colour postage stamp. The stamp features an image of the original centre block of the Parliament Buildings and the text \"Royal Canadian Academy of Arts, 1880–1980\", with the name \"Thomas Fuller\", a member of the Academy and the Dominion Architect of Canada who had designed the original building.\n\nThe Academy is composed of members from across Canada representing over twenty visual arts disciplines. This list is not inclusive. See also .\n\nAcademicians\n\nAssociates\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262483", "title": "Athribis", "text": "Athribis\n\nAthribis (; Greek: , from the original Egyptian Hut-heryib, ) was an ancient city in Lower Egypt. It is located in present-day Tell Atrib, just northeast of Benha on the hill of Kom Sidi Yusuf. The town lies around 40 km north of Cairo, on the eastern bank of the Damietta branch of the Nile. It was mainly occupied during the Ptolemaic, Roman, and Byzantine eras.\n\nAthribis was once the capital of the tenth Lower Egyptian nome. The Palermo stone indicates Egyptian occupation of the site dating back to the Old Kingdom, with the earliest mention of Athribis dating to the reign of Sahure. This could perhaps have been confirmed in 2010, with the discovery of a mastaba dating to the late Third Dynasty to early Fourth Dynasty in nearby Quesna.\nAfter this, archeological evidence exists for an occupation during the 12th Dynasty of the Middle Kingdom period. Today, much of the preexisting artifacts are being lost every year because local farmers like to use the \"sebakh\", fertilizer from the ancient mudbrick blocks that were used for most of the buildings.\n\nIt is also known as the birthplace of Amenhotep, son of Hapu, who gained considerable recognition and prestige in his time as a public official, architect, and scribe for pharaoh Amenhotep III. The former Amenhotep leveraged his influence to convince the pharaoh to patron the town and its local god. A local temple was rebuilt by Amenhotep III during the 18th Dynasty, although it no longer stands today. One of the two lying lion statues at the Cairo Museum is thought to be from the temple, but since it was usurped by Ramesses II, its true origin is unknown. Ramesses II also enlarged the local temple, and placed two obelisks in black granite, also at the Cairo Museum. Later, during the 26th Dynasty, Ahmose II also had a temple built at Athribis. He was an important figure of Mediterranean trade and diplomacy. Local texts also suggest that the site used to have a temple dedicated to the god Horus Khenty-khety. In 1946, the tomb of Takhuit, queen of Psamtik II, was found along with other Late Period tombs.\n\nAlthough Athribis is known to be occupied during later dynastic years, the city didn’t gain real power until the early Ptolemaic years. That was when it became the tenth lower Egyptian nome. Evidence shows that Graeco-Roman occupation could have been as early as the \"Ptolemaic II\" archaeological phase. During the middle Ptolemaic era and up to the 3rd century AD, Athribis was a busy town that had a large bathhouse, villas, and industrial buildings as well. This is considered the eastern part of Athribis. Early Byzantine excavations are at the northeastern part of the town.\n\nDuring the early Ptolemaic years, it was being used as a pottery workshop. Most of the kilns were shaped in circular patterns. Early Byzantine lamps were being made in the area until the late fourth century AD. There was also a large discovery of stored unfired pottery which only led more evidence for a large pottery workshop.\n\nAccording to Marian miracle stories dating to the 1200s, Athribis was then a wealthy city with a huge church dedicated to the Virgin Mary, which was the oldest and most beautiful church in all of Egypt. \"In the church there were four doors, and in these four doors were four shrines, and above the four shrines were four canopies, which were supported by one hundred and sixty pillars, all of which were hewn out of white stone, and between each pillar was a distance of forty cubits. Each pillar was carved all over with vine branches, and the hollow (or, capitals) of them were sculptured and ornamented with cunning work in stone, and they were encircled with bands of gold and silver. And there were in the church four and twenty saints' chapels, and in them were placed four and twenty Tabernacles of the Law (i.e. the arks that contained the Eucharistic Elements). And in one of these chapels was an image of our holy Lady, the Virgin Mary, the God-bearer, which was sculptured and inlaid with mother-of-pearl, and this image was apparelled in a garment that was made of the purple of Constantinople. And near the image of the Virgin Mary were sculptured the figures of two angels (i.e., Michael and Gabriel) which stood one on each side of it. And the lamps that were hanging before the image were made of gold and silver, and they ceased not to burn by day and by night, and [the servants of the church] kept them supplied and filled with oil.\"\n\nThe first excavation of Athribis dates back to 1789 by a French archaeologist Bonaparte and again in 1852 by Auguste Mariette. Even though Athribis has been periodically excavated since the 1800s, it has yet to be fully excavated. Flinders Petrie wrote a book on Athribis in Upper Egypt, so not to be confused with this Lower (northern) Egypt. It was published in 1908. Major excavations didn't actually start until after World War II by Prof. Kazimierz Michalowski. The Polish Archaeology in the Mediterranean journal through the Polish Centre of Mediterranean Archaeology of the University of Warsaw (PCMA), has been publishing yearly excavation reports. Their main reports are from the years 1985-1995 and Dr. Karol Mysliwiek has been the main archaeologist of Athribis.\n\nOver 300 figurines were found throughout all of Athribis, mostly in the Ptolemaic layers. Some of the artifacts were of terracotta form. Many of the figurines depicted were heads of small dwarf-like creatures and some of them were also used as oil lamps in the bathhouses. \"Ptolemaic VI\" is the phase that has been found to have the most artifacts or figurines. They were also more carefully crafted in design compared to findings in other layers and better preserved. Depictions of Egyptian and Greek gods and goddesses were also abundant. Dionysus and Aphrodite seemed to be popular throughout the findings at Athribis. It is considered that these figurines could have been made in the pottery workshops, most were of terracotta make, and others believe the figurines could have had more of a cult meaning. It is suggested that the Dionysus and Aphrodite figures, mostly erotic in nature, could have played as a type of fertility cult in the bathhouse areas since a lot of the figurines were found in excavated remains of the bath area. Egyptian gods were also being depicted as Greek gods in the making of the figurines. Isis was being depicted as Aphrodite in some cases, or a Hercules statue shown with Dionysus. The god Silen was also depicted in one of the excavated oil lamps, dated from the late second century. It shows that even though Athribis at the time was mainly of Graeco-Roman influence, Egyptian culture was still being used in some of their everyday life.\n\nPottery itself from the workshops were also abundant, but compared to the figurines, simple in design. Made from either clay or terracotta, jugs that were Greek in design but clumsily crafted are found throughout the middle Ptolemaic era. Most of the jugs were large in design but smaller, more sophisticated in design were found as well. No matter how the pottery was made, however, floral decorations were found on almost all of the finished and unfinished artifacts. Clay molds were also found in the middle Ptolemaic era. They were circular in design with a sunken relief on one side. There was one artifact found from the early Ptolemaic era that was made from limestone, however the rest of the molds were made from clay.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262485", "title": "History of rail transport in Philadelphia", "text": "History of rail transport in Philadelphia\n\nPhiladelphia was an early railroad hub, with lines from all over meeting in Philadelphia. The first railroad in Philadelphia was the Philadelphia, Germantown and Norristown Railroad, opened in 1832 north to Germantown. At the end of 1833, the state-built Philadelphia and Columbia Railroad, part of the Main Line of Public Works, opened for travel to the west, built to avoid loss of travel through Pennsylvania due to projects such as the Erie Canal. At the same time, the north-south leg of the Philadelphia City Railroad opened, running south along Broad Street from the Philadelphia and Columbia.\n\nThe Northern Liberties and Penn Township Railroad opened in 1834, connecting the Philadelphia and Columbia to the Delaware River north of downtown, and later that year the Southwark Rail-Road opened, connecting the south end of the City Railroad to the river. The Philadelphia and Trenton Railroad also opened in late 1834, running north to Trenton, New Jersey, as did the Camden and Amboy Railroad, running from Camden, New Jersey, across the Delaware River, to South Amboy with connections across Raritan Bay to New York City. The Philadelphia and Trenton would try but never succeed in getting closer to downtown than Kensington, making the C&A the main line to Philadelphia for many years.\n\nIn 1837, an eastern extension of the Philadelphia City Railroad opened along Market Street to the Delaware River at Dock Street. The Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore Railroad opened in 1838 to Grays Ferry and later that year into downtown via a connection with the Southwark and City Railroads. The Philadelphia and Reading Railroad opened in 1839, using the Philadelphia and Columbia and City Railroads to reach downtown. In 1847 a branch of the Philadelphia and Trenton Railroad to Tacony opened, allowing a transfer to steamboats at Tacony for a connection to downtown.\n\nA relocation of the Philadelphia and Columbia Railroad to bypass the Belmont Plane opened in late 1850, and soon after that a western extension of the City Railroad opened to meet it. In 1851, the old route closed, and the eastern section, used only by the Philadelphia and Reading Railroad, was sold to them.\n\nIn 1853, the West Chester and Philadelphia Railroad opened, heading southwest and west to West Chester. The first section of the North Pennsylvania Railroad, eventually running north to Bethlehem, opened in 1855. A new alignment of the Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore Railroad opened in 1872, and the old one was leased in 1873 to the Philadelphia and Reading Railway. In 1886, the Baltimore and Philadelphia Railroad opened, giving the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad its own route into Philadelphia.\n\nIn 1863 and 1866 the Junction Railroad opened, connecting the lines west of downtown. The Connecting Railway opened in 1867, connecting the lines north of downtown, and finally giving the Philadelphia and Trenton Railroad a route into downtown. Eventually all the lines into Philadelphia, except for the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad's Baltimore and Philadelphia Railroad, were owned by the Pennsylvania Railroad or Philadelphia and Reading Railway.\n\nThe Schuylkill River starts in Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania near Pottsville, Pennsylvania and was used in the early days to ship anthracite coal by mule on the Schuylkill Canal to Philadelphia for burning fuel. Later anthracite coal from the hard Coal Region was shipped on the Reading railroad/ Reading Company. The Reading Railroad competed with the Pennsylvania railroad and built tracks along the Schuylkill River for the coal. Today, the anthracite coal is still shipped on coal cars down to the ports of Philadelphia from Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania, by rail. The city of Reading, Pennsylvania, became a rich middleman town during the Industrial revolution from the Coal Region Pottsville, Pennsylvania, northwest of Philadelphia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262492", "title": "Singapore Green Plan 2012", "text": "Singapore Green Plan 2012\n\nSingapore Green Plan 2012 (SGP 2012) was released in 2002 by the Ministry of the Environment and Water Resources (MEWR) as a continuation of the Singapore Green Plan first issued in 1992. Comprising eight distinct key measures, SGP 2012 aims to create an environmentally-conscious Singapore, promoting conservation of the nation’s natural resources and the use of green technology to conserve the environment, both locally and globally. It also aims to ensure sustainability in the country’s development and to instill within Singaporeans personal duty and commitment towards the environment.\n\nIn 2005, three focus groups on Air and Climate Change, Water and Clean Land, Nature and Public Health were officially formed to undertake a three-yearly review of the SGP 2012. MEWR accepted many of the groups' feedback and recommendations, subsequently incorporating the changes and updates into the plan. The revised SGP 2012 included changes such as the removal of certain targets and programmes and while updating and expanding the goals of others.\n\nCooperation between Singapore’s People, Private and Public sectors is essential to forge an environmentally aware and responsible Singapore.\n\nPeople sector: Efforts by the individual are valuable since they can participate in environmentally friendly acts such as recycling, consuming environmentally friendly products and sorting out recyclables from their own trash. These efforts are strongly supported by non-governmental organisations like the Nature Society (Singapore), Singapore Environment Council and the Waterways Watch Society to encourage environmental consciousness in society.\n\nPrivate sector: Efforts by industries and companies towards establishing environmentally friendly manufacturing processes and materials to reflect their degree of responsibility as corporate residents of Planet Earth. Taking on efficient environmental measures in companies' operations greatly reduces pollution and saves valuable resources.\n\nGovernment: Represented by Ministry of the Environment, works towards facilitating and helping passionate groups and organizations find local and overseas partners for collaborations to enhance current and new environmental projects.\n\nNon-government and government organisations have held a myriad of programmes, inspiring and pushing to make environmental caring a lifelong interest and commitment.\n\nA few examples include:\n\nSingapore constantly monitors and review its air quality standard by setting new air quality aims and targets. Singapore uses Telemetric Air Quality Monitoring and Management System comprising 17 remote air monitoring stations linked electronically to a Central Control System. Fourteen of the stations monitor ambient air quality while three measure the quality of roadside air. These stations periodically measure the concentrations of main pollutants such as sulphur dioxide, oxides of nitrogen, carbon monoxide, ozone and respirable suspended particles.\n\nMalaysia referred to the National Environment Agency (NEA) for evaluation at the planning stage to ensure that sufficient pollution control measures are in place before implementation. Besides monitoring individual polluters, NEA also checks the ambient air quality for signs of pollution so actions may be taken to prevent any problem from worsening. Inspections on industrial and trade premises are also conducted on a regular basis to ensure that environmental regulations, such as the Environmental Protection & Management Act (Air Impurities), are complied with.\n\nGreater environmental awareness through education has been strongly championed by Singapore's Ministries, especially Haze Management Measures. A sense of ownership by the public will lead to less pollution and reduce the need for enforcement.\n\n\"Strategies taken up in ensuring clean air:\"\n\nHousehold appliances are labelled according to their energy efficiency levels, encouraging customers to buy energy-efficient appliances and to reduce utility cost. These energy labels are part of the Green Label Scheme.\n\nTo reduce fuel consumption, members of the public are encouraged to take Singapore's well-connected public transport instead of private vehicles. Energy-efficiency benchmarks and incentives are gradually introduced for offices, hotels, encouraging the private sector to be more energy efficient.\n\nSingapore set its target to increase import of natural gases from Malaysia by another 10 million cubic metres per day by 2009, with the target of 60 percent of Singapore’s electricity to be met by natural gas by 2012. Singapore focuses on increasing the percentage of natural gas usage as it is a cleaner energy source, producing up to 65 percent fewer emissions than coal per kilowatt hour and 25 percent fewer emissions than oil.\n\nThe first compressed natural gas (CNG) refuelling station in Singapore opened on 22 April 2002 and by the end of 2002, SBS Transit operates 12 CNG buses serving Jurong East and Jurong Island.\n\nSince 1 December 2005, it is compulsory for all diesel-driven vehicle in Singapore to use only ultra-low-sulfur diesel (ULSD). The sulphur content in diesel has been reduced from 0.05 mg/litre to 0.005 mg/litre.\n\nSingapore also embarked on a project aiming to recover waste heat from the petrochemical plants on Jurong Island to power a centralised cooling system for the Jurong Industrial Estate, in which high-grade heat is used to generate electricity and lower-grade heat is channeled to be used for other process needs.\n\nTwo measures that Singapore Green Plan 2012 focus on are to increase Singapore’s water catchment area and to diversify Singapore’s source of water supply.\nSingapore plans to increase the land surface for water catchment from half to two-thirds and link up reservoirs in Singapore to maximize the yield of the various catchment areas.\nTo ensure sustainability, Singapore is moving increasingly towards non-conventional sources of water. These include desalination and water reclamation aimed to meet at least 25 percent of Singapore’s water needs by 2012.\n\nThe Public Utilities Board planned to secure 136,000 cubic metres of desalinated water per day by the year 2005 to produce NEWater. By 2010, the supply of NEWater to the industrial and commercial sectors is expected to exceed 250,000 cubic metres a day, or more than 15 percent of Singapore’s total water need.\n\nThe 2006 revised Green Plan targets to reduce per capita domestic water consumption to 155 litres/day by 2012 and to work with the 3P sectors to increase awareness of the importance to conserve, value and enjoy water, developing a sense of shared ownership of the country's water resources.\n\nSingapore Green Plan 2012 set a goal of having “zero landfill”, which aims to minimise waste generation and increasing recycling as much as possible.\n\nIn 2001, Singapore’s recycling rates were at about 44% of its total waste. SGP 2012 targets to increase the country’s overall recycling to 60% by 2012. To meet this target, the National Recycling Programme was launched in April 2001 to collect recyclable materials like paper, plastics and cans directly from households every fortnightly. Recycling bins for plastics, glass and cans are also placed at public places. A $20 million Innovation for Sustainability Fund (IES Fund) was set up in 2001 to encourage and fund companies to help grow the recycling industry and develop projects and technologies that help achieve the goal of environment sustainability.\n\nWith the increase in recycling, SGP 2012 aims to reduce the need for additional incineration plants from one new plant every 5 to 7 years to one in every 10 to 15 years or longer. Any incinerable waste is sent for incineration to reduce the amount of waste sent to the landfill. Non-incinerable waste, together with incineration ash, are disposed of at Semakau Landfill.\n\nSuccesses: Between 2000 and 2005, Singapore’s overall recycling rate rose from 40% to 49% with waste disposal levels falling from 7600 tons to 7000 tons a day. The projected lifespan for Semakau Landfill increased from 25–30 years to 40 years and the need for additional incineration plants is reduced from one every 5 to 7 years to one every 7 to 10 years.\n\n\"Foodshop Grading System \"\n\nEvery food stall is graded based on criteria like housekeeping, cleanliness, pest infestation, food hygiene as well as the personal hygiene of the stall handlers. This \"Grading System for Eating Establishments and Food Stalls\" system encourages stall owners to improve their stall hygiene standard to gain higher customer satisfaction.\n\n\"Environmental Cleanliness \"\n\nNEA uses mechanical road and pavement sweeping machines to clean the streets and sidewalks.\n\nIn order to educate the public, NEA launched the “Singapore, Litter Free” campaign in 2002 to encourage event participants to keep the site litter-free by disposing litter into bins. Large-scale public events with similar litter-free message include the National Day Parade, World of Music and Dance (WOMAD), and Singapore River Regatta.\n\nDengue fever is the main vector-borne disease that cause significant public health concern in Singapore. Aedes mosquito breeding to residents.\n\nIn 2004, NEA launched a ‘Mozzie Attack’ programme in April 2004 together with grassroots organisations and Community Development Councils where volunteers organised exhibitions, door-to-door visits and talks to spread the message of preventing.\nIn 2005, the Government launched ‘Campaign Against Dengue’ to raise awareness and rally people behind the anti-dengue fight. Every household received the ‘10-Minute Mozzie Wipeout’ pamphlet on basic measures to take against mosquito breeding. Volunteers were mobilized to search and get rid of Aedes mosquitos breeding ground in over 10,000 HDB blocks and private estates, more than 1,000 mosquito breeding sites were eradicated and 8,500 potential breeding spots were identified.\n\nThe number of dengue cases per week fell from a high of 713 in September 2005 to 62 in January 2006.\n\nThrough the use of careful planning in the Concept Plan 2001, Singapore seeks to balance the nation’s land use needs with environmental preservation to ensure sufficient green spaces for recreation purposes without compromising its urban development.\n\nIn 2005, NParks developed 17.5 hectares of new parks and 7.4 km of park connectors, bringing the total area of parks and park connectors to 1924 hectares and 70 km respectively.\n\nWith the promotion of Sungei Buloh Nature Park and Labrador Nature Park to nature reserves in 2001, Singapore then had four nature reserves under the legal protection of the National Parks Act. The other two nature reserves are Chek Jawa and Bukit Timah and Central Catchment Nature Reserves.\n\nIn January 2002, the government announced that land reclamation would not be done on the island and will be deferred as long as the land is not needed for other development purposes.\n\nSungei Buloh Wetland Reserve was announced to be one of the two parks gazetted as nature reserves on 10 November 2001. As of 2006, reforestation efforts led by NParks starting in 2001 have reforested 71.6 hectares of land in the wetland reserve, Pulau Ubin and the Central Nature reserves.\n\nBukit Timah Nature Reserve and core areas in the Central Catchment Nature Reserve, are protected by strict conservation practices to sustainability and attract biodiversity research.\nAvenues such as new hiking trails and the HSBC Treetop Walk allows access to the forest canopy which was originally inaccessible by conventional means.\n\nOne of the few rocky shores left on mainland Singapore, the beach at Labrador Nature Reserve has a rich biodiversity of marine flora and fauna amidst the mixture of rocks, mud and patches of coral growth.\n\nSingapore enforces strict pollution control measures on local companies and factories. They are required to comply with regulations pertaining to air pollutants, effluent discharge and noise pollution. Quantitative risk assessment studies and extensive plans relating to management and disposal must also be done on hazardous and toxic chemicals.\n\nSingapore played a key role during planning and implementation of the Strategic Plan of Action on the Environment or SPAE (1999 - 2004), strategizing common plans and environmental programmes aimed to realise the ASEAN Vision 2020. Over the years, Singapore has been actively supporting the ASEAN Vision 2020, covering concern issues such as forest fires, transboundary haze, coastal environment and biodiversity within the Asia-Pacific region.\n\nSingapore initiated many regional environmental programmes, relating to water and waste water engineering, environmental technology and urban transport planning and design, solid waste and wastewater management, pollution control, coastal and environmental management.\n\nA few examples include:\n\n\"United Nations Environment Programme\"\n\nSingapore has a long-standing relationship with both the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP), participating actively in the “East Asian Seas Regional Programme” of the 1974 UNEP-initiated Regional Seas Programme.\n\n\"Global Ministerial Forums\"\n\nSingapore attends both the UNEP’s Global Ministerial Environment Forum, which looks at current global issues like global environmental governance, and ESCAP’s Ministerial Conferences on Environment and Development, which give environment ministers in the Asia Pacific region a forum to share their perspectives on regional environmental concerns and priorities.\n\n\"Multilateral Treaties\"\n\nSingapore is involved in multilateral treaties including the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, and the Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes.\n"}
{"id": "2262496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262496", "title": "Mount Olive, North Carolina", "text": "Mount Olive, North Carolina\n\nMount Olive is a town in Duplin and Wayne counties in the U.S. state of North Carolina. The population was 4,589 at the 2010 census. It is included in the Goldsboro, North Carolina Metropolitan Statistical Area. The town is home to the Mt. Olive Pickle Company and the University of Mount Olive.\n\nThe Mount Olive High School (Former), Mount Olive Historic District, Perry-Cherry House, Southerland-Burnette House, former United States Post Office, and Vernon are listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nMount Olive is located in southern Wayne County at (35.195086, -78.067528). A small portion of the town extends south into Duplin County.\n\nU.S. Route 117, a four-lane highway, runs along the western edge of Mount Olive, leading north to Goldsboro and south to Warsaw. North Carolina Highway 55, which crosses US 117 at the north end of town, leads east to Kinston and west to Newton Grove.\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, the town of Mount Olive has a total area of , all land.\n\nMount Olive is part of the Atlantic coastal plain region.\n\nAs of the census of 2000, there were 4,567 people, 1,770 households, and 1,125 families residing in the town. The population density was 1,819.3 people per square mile (702.5/km²). There were 2,012 housing units at an average density of 801.5 per square mile (309.5/km²). The racial makeup of the town was 82.98% White, 12.30% African American, 0.15% Native American, 0.15% Asian, 0.11% Pacific Islander, 1.34% from other races, and 0.96% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 3.17% of the population.\n\nThere were 1,770 households out of which 25.9% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 36.8% were married couples living together, 22.9% had a female householder with no husband present, and 36.4% were non-families. 32.3% of all households were made up of individuals and 15.8% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.38 and the average family size was 3.01.\n\nIn the town, the population was spread out with 22.9% under the age of 18, 14.0% from 18 to 24, 22.8% from 25 to 44, 21.1% from 45 to 64, and 19.2% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 38 years. For every 100 females, there were 77.3 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 71.5 males.\n\nThe median income for a household in the town was $23,984, and the median income for a family was $31,176. Males had a median income of $26,814 versus $19,224 for females. The per capita income for the town was $12,184. About 16.4% of families and 22.8% of the population were below the poverty line, including 29.6% of those under age 18 and 21.6% of those age 65 or over.\n\nBetween 2010 and 2012, as many as 3,000 Haitians, from toddlers to grandmothers, have settled in and around Mount Olive. Their arrival seemed to happen overnight; the 2010 census counted no Haitians in that area. The newcomers' lure: the Butterball turkey processing plant and a handful of other meat producers within commuting distance of Mount Olive.\n\nJim Johnson, a professor at the Kenan-Flagler Business School at University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, said the new wave of Haitians in Eastern North Carolina is the classic immigrant labor story. \"The jobs at Butterball are what we can call 3D: dirty, difficult and dangerous,\" Johnson said. \"Nobody wants to do them, and the immigrants fill the gap.\"\nThe Mt. Olive Pickle Company, established in 1926, is located on the corner of Cucumber and Vine streets.\n\nThe North Carolina Pickle Festival is held the last full weekend of April each year. The annual celebration is put on by both the community of Mount Olive and the Mt. Olive Pickle Company.\n\nOn New Year's Eve, the Mt. Olive Pickle Company celebrates in unusual fashion by dropping a three-foot pickle down a flagpole into a pickle tank. However, instead of midnight local time, the drop takes place at 7 p.m. The event first took place on New Year's Eve 1999.\n\nMount Olive is part of the Atlantic coastal plain.\n\nEducation in Mount Olive is administered by the Wayne County Public Schools system. Schools located in the town include Carver Elementary School and Mount Olive Middle School. On the outskirts of town is Southern Wayne High School in Dudley. Higher education is offered through Wayne Community College in Goldsboro and the private, liberal arts institution University of Mount Olive.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262499", "title": "Kamino-shima", "text": "Kamino-shima\n\n (Kunoshitazaki:Northernmost point)\n"}
{"id": "2262507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262507", "title": "Face Tomorrow", "text": "Face Tomorrow\n\nFace Tomorrow is a Dutch indie rock band. It was formed in 1997, and consists of lead singer Jelle Schrooten, guitarists Aart Steekelenburg and Marc Nolte, bass player Tijs Hop and Sjoerd van der Knoop on drums. In 2010 Nolte left and was replaced by Ralf Mastwijk.\n\nFace Tomorrow first released an EP called \"Live the Dream\" in 2001, but became one of the leading Dutch underground bands after the release of their first album \"For Who You Are\" in 2002. After the band released its second album \"The Closer You Get\" in 2004, Face Tomorrow toured all over Europe and the United States, playing festivals like Lowlands, Pukkelpop, Noorderslag, Bochum Total, Groezrock and Paaspop. In 2006 they made a cover album with songs of The Apers with bands like Peter Pan Speedrock, Travoltas, El Pino & the Volunteers etc. On this album Face Tomorrow made a cover of the song \"You Can't Change The World\".\n\nIn October 2008, the band's third full-length album \"In the Dark\" was released on Excelsior Recordings. The 13 songs, a.o. the singles 'Overpowered' (with a video clip made by director Peter Greenaway), 'Trial and Error' and 'Darkside' were recorded at the Mailmen studios at the beginning of 2008. Besides the a CD-version, a limited edition blue vinyl 2x12\" version in a gatefold sleeve was released with artwork by Dutch artist/illustrator Mara Piccione.\n\nAfter more than ten years of service guitar player Marc Nolte decided to leave the band in January 2010. This loss was compensated by a new guitarist, Ralf Mastwijk, with whom the band wrote a new album during the first half of 2010.\nIn the summer they recorded their fourth full-length album at the Split Second Sound studio in Amsterdam. This album was produced and engineered by Jochem Jacobs, who is mostly known as a guitar player of Dutch math metal band Textures, and together they succeeded to capture the band's live energy on record.\nAt the end of 2010 they signed with German Redfield Records for the release of their new, self-titled album, and on 25 February the new single 'The Fix' was released. The Fix' music video was produced and directed by former band member Marc Nolte and was followed by the release of their album on March 25, 2011, which they presented at a sold-out release party at Rotown in their home town Rotterdam on March 26. This time the artwork (and the band's new logo) has been designed by Dutch graphic designers Rob van den Nieuwenhuizen (of design studio DRAWSWORDS) and Barbara Hennequin.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262511", "title": "Franciszek Honiok", "text": "Franciszek Honiok\n\nFranciszek Honiok is famous for having been the first victim of World War II on 31 August 1939.\n\nHe was the unfortunate victim of the Gleiwitz incident, that was a part of Operation Himmler, a multi-part false flag operation contrived by German SS Reichsführer, Heinrich Himmler and his deputy, Schutzstaffel (SS)-Obergruppenführer Reinhard Heydrich to aid German Führer Adolf Hitler's plan to invade Poland \n\nA self-described Oberschlesier, Franciszek was an ethnic Pole living as a 43-year old unmarried Silesian Catholic farmer and agricultural equipment salesman. Born in Upper Silesia (a border region spanning present day Poland, Germany and the Czech Republic) in 1896, he had fought on the Polish side during the 1921 Silesian Uprisings that followed World War I. After a brief spell living in Poland, he returned to Germany in 1925, where he was forced to fight deportation back to Poland—a case he successfully pursued all the way to the League of Nations in Geneva. Though his firebrand days may have been over by 1939, Honiok was still well known in his German home village of Hohenlieben (modern day, Lubie) — about 10 miles north of Gleiwitz (modern day, Gliwice) —as a staunch advocate of the Polish cause.\n\nFranciszek had been arrested by the SS in the village of Pohlom on August 30, and was ruthlessly selected as the person who would provide the \"proof\" of Polish aggression against Germany. He appears to have been selected because of his involvement in a number of local revolts against German rule in Silesia. According to his surviving family in Poland, Honiok identified strongly with Silesia and Poland. He underwent a brief incarceration at the police barracks in Beuthen.\n\nAccording to the 1945 Nuremberg trials declaration by Alfred Naujocks, the SS-Sturmbannfuhrer (Major) who was in charge of the operation for Heydrick, at a meeting in Berlin, Heydrich told him how a body, dressed in Polish uniform, was to be left on the Gleiwitz radio station steps to \"prove\" the Polish connection. The top secret operation was given a codeword: \"Großmutter gestorben\", (\"Grandmother died\"), to be used by Heydrich to indicate to Naujocks via telephone that the operation was to commence.\n\nFranciszek was knocked out with drugs before the raid. He was dragged semi-unconscious into the radio station, where he was shot in the head during the evening of 31 August. Naujocks added that Honiok had been referred to as a piece of \"Konserve\", or \"canned meat\", which could be prepared in advance and used to suggest Polish involvement in the attack.\n\nThe location of Franciszek's body is unknown, and no memorial exists in his memory.\n"}
{"id": "2262519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262519", "title": "Dieppe maps", "text": "Dieppe maps\n\nThe Dieppe maps are a series of world maps produced in Dieppe, France, in the 1540s, 1550s, and 1560s. They are large hand-produced maps, commissioned for wealthy and royal patrons, including Henry II of France and Henry VIII of England. The Dieppe school of cartographers included Pierre Desceliers, Jean Rotz, Guillaume Le Testu, Guillaume Brouscon and Nicolas Desliens.\n\nThe Dieppe Maps known to have existed into modern times include the following \nSarah Toulouse has published a more detailed and comprehensive list of 37 charts and atlases made between 1542 and 1635 and belonging to the Dieppe or Norman school of marine cartography.\n\nBecause many of the inscriptions on the Dieppe maps are written in French, Portuguese or Gallicised Portuguese, it has often been assumed that the Dieppe school of mapmakers were working from Portuguese sources that no longer exist. It has been assumed that Portuguese cartographers were bribed for information of the latest discoveries, despite the official Portuguese Politica de sigilo (policy of silence). The Cantino map of 1502 (not a Dieppe school map) shows evidence of second-hand Portuguese sources, and this has been taken by some as supporting evidence for this assumption.\n\nCommon features of most of the Dieppe world maps (see Vallard 1547, Desceliers 1550) are the compass roses and navigational rhumb lines, suggestive of a sea-chart. However, the maps are best understood as works of art, clearly intended to be spread out on a table, and containing information on the latest discoveries, side by side with mythological references and illustrations. For example, the Desceliers 1550 map carries descriptions of early French attempts to colonise Canada, the conquests of Peru by the Spanish and the Portuguese sea-trade among the Spice Islands. On the same map can be found descriptions of legendary Cathay, king Prester John in Ethiopia, and the race of Amazons in Russia. Other Dieppe maps also carry fictitious features such as the Marco Polo inspired Zanzibar/Îles des Geanz. (see Vallard 1547, Rotz 1542 and Dauphin c. 1536–42). As with other maps made before the 17th century, the Dieppe maps show no knowledge of longitude. While latitude could be marked in degrees as observed by astrolabe or quadrant, easting could only be given in distance. Mercator's projection first appeared in 1568–9, a development too late to influence the Dieppe cartographers.\n\nMost of the Dieppe maps depict a large land mass entitled \"Jave la Grande\" or \"terre de lucac\" (Locach) between what is now Indonesia and Antarctica. In the English-speaking world particularly, academic and popular interest in the Dieppe maps over the last 150 years has focused largely on this feature of the maps. This is because Jave la Grande is thought by some writers to provide clues of a possible Portuguese exploration of Australia's coasts in the 1520s. However, the most recent academic writings on the Dieppe maps by Carile (1997), Brunelle (2007) and King (2009) have suggested that the maps need to be considered in their entirety, and consideration needs to be given to what they reveal about various influences on the mapmakers, as well as French aspirations.\n\nThis group of writers argue that the maps are not necessarily literal records of voyages of exploration. On the 1543 world chart of Guillaume Brouscon this feature, the northern part of \"\" (Terra Australis), is called \"terre de lucac\" (Locach); on this chart, \"la Jave grande \" refers to Java, and \"Jave\" refers to an island to its east (Bali, Lombok or Sumbawa). Similarly, on the 1570 \"Carte cosmographique ou Universelle description du monde\" of Jean Cossin, an originator of the sinusoidal projection, this feature is called \"Terre de lucac\", as it is also by Jacques de Vaulx on his chart. On the so-called Pasterot atlas (British Library MS Egerton 1513) it is called \"IOCAT\", another form of Locach.\n\nProfessor Gayle K. Brunelle of California State University has argued that, although the Dieppe school of cartographers was active for only a generation—from about 1535 to 1562—the cartographers associated with it were acting as propagandists for French geographic knowledge and territorial claims in the New World. The decades when the Dieppe school was flourishing were also the decades in which French trade with the New World was at its 16th-century height, in terms of the North Atlantic fish trade, the still fledgling fur trade, and, most important for the cartographers, the rivalry with the Portuguese for control of the coasts of Brazil and the supplies of lucrative Brazilwood. Brunelle states that the Dieppe cartographers accessed cartographic skills and geographic knowledge from Portuguese mariners, pilots, and geographers working in France, at the same time as they were producing maps meant to emphasize French dominion over the New World, both in Newfoundland and in Brazil, that the Portuguese also claimed. Portuguese-style maps, in particular, became the basis for the work of other cartographers produced for courts throughout Europe, so much so that at times Italian, French, German, or Flemish map makers did not even bother to translate the Portuguese inscriptions they had 'borrowed' from Portuguese maps. Brunelle noted that, in design and decorative style the Dieppe school maps represented a blending of the latest geographical and nautical knowledge circulating in Europe (and the portolan style of depicting coastlines), with older conceptualizations of world geography deriving from Ptolemy and mediaeval cartographers and explorers such as Marco Polo. Renaissance mapmakers such as those based in Dieppe relied heavily on each other's work, as well as on maps from previous generations, and thus their maps represented a mixture of old and new data and even differing conceptualizations of space, often coexisting uneasily in the same map.\n\nThe Dieppe maps all depict the southern continent, Terra Australis, incorporating a huge promontory extending northward called \"Jave la Grande\". According to the French geographer Numa Broc, Terra Australis found its most inspired illustrator in pilot-cartographer of Le Havre, Guillaume Le Testu. Le Testu's \"Cosmographie Universelle\", the sumptuous atlas he presented in 1556 to Coligny, Grand Admiral of France, constituted a veritable encyclopaedia of the geographic and ethnographic knowledge of the time. French historian Frank Lestringant has said: \"The nautical fiction of Le Testu fulfilled the conditions of a technical instrumentality, while giving to King Henry II and his minister, Admiral Coligny, the… anticipatory image of an empire that awaited to be brought into being\". In the \"Cosmographie\" twelve vividly coloured charts are devoted to a survey of the fictitious continent Terra Australis. In these charts, Le Testu drew the outlines of an enormous Austral continent which covered the southern part of the globe and filled a considerable part of the Indian Ocean. This imaginary land derived from the \"Antichthone\" of the Greeks and had already been reactivated, notably by the mathematician and cosmographer Oronce Finé (1531) and by Le Testu's predecessors of the Dieppe school. According to the Portuguese historian Paolo Carile, the attitude of Le Testu reveals a cultural conflict between the old cosmographic beliefs and the demands of an empirical concept of geographical and ethnographical knowledge, influenced by the rigour of his Calvinist faith. Carile notes that while on the iconographic side Le Testu depicts an Austral Continent with strangely tropical conditions incorporating beasts drawn from fantasy and old legends, on the other side he nullifies these leaps of imagination by his admission that the land shown as part of the Terra Australis was still unknown and what was marked out on his map was based solely on imagination and surmise.\n\nThe cartographers of the Dieppe school incorporated into their world maps the cosmographic concepts of Oronce Finé, the first Professor of Mathematics at the Collège Royal in Paris (now the Collège de France). His 1531 world map was published in 1532 in the \"Novus Orbis Regionum ac Insularum.\" Finé's cosmography was derived from that of the German mathematician, Johannes Schöner. In his study of Schöner‘s globes, Franz von Wieser, found that the derivation of Finé's mappemonde from them was “unverkennbar” (“unmistakeable”). Lucien Gallois noted in 1890, as Franz von Wieser had done before him, the undeniable “ressemblance parfaite” (“perfect resemblance”) between Finé's 1531 mappemonde and Schöner's 1533 globe. Schöner's globe of 1523 also closely resembled Finé's mappemonde, proving that Schöner's cosmographic concepts pre-dated those of Finé. Albert Anthiaume wrote in 1911: \n\nOne place name in particular on the Dieppe maps, the \"baie bresille\" on northwest coast the 1542 Rotz map's \"Lande of Java\", which appears as \"Baye bresille\" on the Harleian, \"Baye bresill\" on the Desceliers and \"Baie Braecillie\" on Le Testu's \"Grande Jave\" of 1556, illustrates the reliance of their makers on the Schöner/Finé cosmography. Armand Rainaud noted in 1893 that this appellation, “without doubt comes from the globes of Schoener and the maps of Oronce Fine”. On Finé's 1531 mappemonde, is shown as part of the Terra Australis lying to the east of Africa and to the south of Java, just where Schöner located on his 1523 globe, and where the Dieppe maps locate their \"Baye Bresille\".\n\nAnother indication of this reliance is given by the placement of (Kattigara) on the western coast of South America on the mid-1540s Harleian mappemonde and on Le Testu's 1556 map of western South America: the same location it occupied on Finé's 1531 mappemonde and on Schöner's 1523 and 1533 globes. \"Kattigara\" or \"Cattigara\" was understood by the 2nd-century Alexandrian geographer Ptolemy to be a port and emporium on the eastern side of the \"Sinus Magnus\" (\"Great Gulf\"), the actual Gulf of Thailand. The 1507 Waldseemüller map shows \"Catigara\" in this location. Following the 1519–1521 circumnavigation of the world by the expedition led by Ferdinand Magellan and completed after his death in the Philippines by Sebastian de Juan Sebastián Elcano, Schöner identified the Pacific Ocean with Ptolemy’s \"Sinus Magnus\", which he labelled on his 1523 globe, [um] (the Great Gulf, Eastern Sea, South Sea”). The eastern side of the Sinus Magnus, which Schöner took to be the peninsula of India Superior (Indochina) where Cattigara was located, was therefore identified by him with South America, which on his 1533 globe bears the inscription, \"America, Indiae superioris et Asiae continentis pars\" (“America, a part of India Superior and of the Asian continent”). Cattigara was accordingly located on Schöner's 1523 and 1533 globes on the western coast of South America. occupied the same location on Finé's mappemonde, as it also did on the Dieppe school maps, the mid-1540s Harleian mappemonde and Le Testu's 1556 map of western South America.\n\nThe extent of French knowledge concerning Terra Australis in the mid-16th century is indicated by Lancelot Voisin de La Popelinière, who in 1582 published \"Les Trois Mondes\", a work setting out the history of the discovery of the globe. In \"Les Trois Mondes\", La Popelinière pursued a geopolitical design by using cosmographic conjectures which were at the time quite credible, to theorize a colonial expansion by France into the Austral territories. His country, eliminated from colonial competition in the New World after a series of checks at the hands of the Portuguese and Spanish, could only thenceforward orient her expansion toward this \"third world\". He declared: \"to the ambition of the French is promised the Terre Australe, a territory which could not but be filled with all kinds of goods and things of excellence\". Taking up an earlier proposal by André d'Albaigne and inspired by Le Testu's description of Terra Australis, La Popelinière described in eloquent terms this unknown \"third world\" which would complete the Old World and the New World. He wrote; \n\nIt is noteworthy that La Popelinière believed that only Ferdinand Magellan had actually sighted the southern continent, in the shape of Tierra del Fuego. He was apparently ignorant that Francis Drake sailed through open sea to the south of Tierra del Fuego in 1578, proving it to be an island and not, as Magellan had supposed, part of Terra Australis. La Popelinière, the would be colonist, gave no indication that he thought that anyone, French, Portuguese or otherwise, had visited the part of Terra Australis shown on the Dieppe maps as \"Jave la Grande\".\n\nDiscussion of the Dieppe maps in contemporary Australia is exclusively confined to the Jave la Grande feature. In the media, the maps are sometimes mistakenly described as Portuguese.\nThe first writer to put these maps forward as evidence of Portuguese discovery of Australia was Alexander Dalrymple in 1786, in a short note to his \"Memoir Concerning the Chagos and Adjacent Islands\". Dalrymple was intrigued enough to publish 200 copies of the Dauphin map.\n\nSince then a number of other writers have contributed to the debate about the \"Jave La Grande\" landmass that appears on the Dieppe maps. These include;\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262524", "title": "Francis A. Hendry", "text": "Francis A. Hendry\n\nFrancis Asbury Hendry (November 19, 1833 – February 12, 1917) was a Florida cattle rancher, politician, and officer in the Confederate States Army during the American Civil War.\n\nAsbury was born near Thomasville, Georgia, a son of James Edward Hendry and Lydia Carlton. He was known by the nickname \"Berry.\" In 1851, his father took the family to Hillsborough County, Florida, settling on the Alafia River about twenty-two miles east of Tampa. His father then returned to Georgia to settle his affairs, and died suddenly on January 3, 1852. Nineteen-year-old Berry, his mother, and his siblings decided to remain in Florida.\n\nOn March 25, 1852, Berry married Ardeline Ross Lanier (May 10, 1835 – September 6, 1917), a native of Bulloch County, Georgia. Soon thereafter, they moved to Fort Meade, Florida, where they started a cattle ranch. They marked their cattle with a crop and split in one ear and an upper square in the other. They also branded them with a large \"A\", Berry's middle initial, as well as his wife's first initial.\n\nThe Hendrys lived with the garrison at Fort Meade for a time before building their first home about two miles (3 km) north on a branch of the Peace River. It is now known as the Berry Hendry Branch.\n\nDuring the Third Seminole War, Berry served with both Capt. William B. Hooker and Capt. Leroy G. Lesley in their independent companies of mounted volunteers. Muster rolls describe him as standing six feet and one inch in height, with grey eyes, and dark hair and complexion. Berry survived the war having seen little or no action.\n\nIn 1860, on the eve of the Civil War, Berry Hendry was a prosperous cattle rancher with eight slaves. He opposed secession after the election of Abraham Lincoln, but loyally supported his adopted state after it passed a secession ordinance.\n\nOn February 1, 1861, before the war really began in earnest, Hendry led efforts to create Polk County, Florida, and was elected to its first Board of County Commissioners. Hendry spent the first three years of the war supplying cattle to the Confederate Commissary Department. But, his work was made difficult by a Federal garrison that occupied old Fort Meade. So, in 1863, he organized his own cavalry company to keep the enemy isolated behind the walls of the fortress. He was given the rank of captain and attached to Colonel C. J. Munnerlyn's Cow Cavalry.\n\nOn October 27, 1857, he was elected to a two-year term on the Hillsborough County Commission.\n\nAfter Florida surrendered to Federal occupation in the spring of 1865, Hendry represented Polk County at the Second Constitutional Convention in Tallahassee. He was also elected to the Florida Senate representing the 28th district in the sessions of 1865 and 1866, and the 24th district in the sessions of 1875 and 1877. He was elected to the Florida House of Representatives representing Lee County for the sessions of 1893, 1895, 1897, 1899, 1901, and 1903.\n\nAfter the Reconstruction government was installed in Tallahassee in 1868, former Confederate officers were not welcome to hold elective office on the state level. So, Berry Hendry returned to Polk County, and was appointed to serve on the Board of Public Instruction.\n\nDuring the Reconstruction Era, Hendry continued to build and improve his cattle empire. He made his new headquarters in the abandoned officers' barracks at Fort Myers, and made contact with buyers from Cuba. He was among the first Florida ranchers to ship cattle to that country through the port of Punta Rassa. By 1876, he had fenced-in some of range land and owned about 50,000 head of cattle.\n\nOn August 12, 1885, Hendry chaired a public meeting held at the schoolhouse in Fort Myers, at the corner of Second and Lee Streets. There, the electors voted to incorporate the town, and Hendry became one of its first councilmen. As such, in 1887, he led efforts to create Lee County, Florida, and was elected to its first Board of County Commissioners.\n\nBy 1888, Hendry had moved his ranching headquarters to the vicinity of Fort Thompson. He also began to dispose of much of his range cattle in favor of Jersey and other breeds in an effort to improve the quality of his stock. He also acquired large tracts of marshland along the Caloosahatchee River for grazing. In 1893, Major Hendry was elected to represent Lee County in the state legislature, and served for more than a decade. In 1895, he platted the town of LaBelle, Florida, which he named for his daughters Laura and Belle Hendry.\n\nDuring his last years, Major Hendry retired to Fort Myers for better access to medical care. He suffered from chronic nephritis, a kidney disease. And, the state awarded him a monthly pension of twenty dollars.\n\nHendry died at Fort Myers. On May 11, 1923, the state legislature honored him with the creation of Hendry County, Florida, designating LaBelle as its seat of government.\n"}
{"id": "2262540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262540", "title": "Christian Coulson", "text": "Christian Coulson\n\nChristian Peter Coulson (born 3 October 1978) is an English actor best known for playing the 16-year old Tom Marvolo Riddle in \"Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets\".\n\nCoulson was born in Manchester. He attended Arnold House Preparatory School in London, before attending Westminster School on an academic scholarship. He was a member of the UK's National Youth Music Theatre from 1990–1997, and went on to the University of Cambridge, where he received a degree in English from Clare College in 2000. While at university, he played the M.C. (Master of Ceremonies) in \"Cabaret\", Arturo Ui in \"The Resistible Rise of Arturo Ui\" and Claire in \"The Maids\", as well as appearing in film and television.\n\nCoulson gained worldwide attention and popularity for his role in 2002's \"Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets\", in which he portrayed a 16-year-old Tom Riddle, even though Coulson was 24 years old at the time. However, in 2007, director David Yates indicated on \"MTV\" that Coulson would not reprise his role in \"Half-Blood Prince\", since, at 29, he was now too old.\n\nHe also wrote the lyrics and book for a rock musical called \"The Fallen\" which was performed at Bedford Modern School in 1998.\n\nAs of 2010, Coulson currently resides and works in New York City as an actor and director.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262547", "title": "WKNO (TV)", "text": "WKNO (TV)\n\nWKNO, virtual channel 10 (UHF digital channel 29), is a Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) member television station licensed to Memphis, Tennessee, United States. The station is owned by the Mid-South Public Communications Foundation, a non-profit organization governed by a board of trustees composed of volunteers, and is operated alongside National Public Radio (NPR) member radio station WKNO-FM (91.1). The two stations share studios on Cherry Farms Road with the TV station's transmitter on Raleigh LaGrange Road, both in the Cordova section of unincorporated Shelby County.\n\nThe station first signed on the air on June 25, 1956 as Tennessee's first public television outlet. Its studios were first located in midtown Memphis, but would move several years later to rented space on the campus of Memphis State University (now the University of Memphis); in 1979, the studios were relocated a few blocks to the south, to the southern annex of the MSU campus on Getwell Road. That facility served the station for 30 years until November 2009, when the station moved into a custom-designed all-digital studio facility in Cordova.\n\nFrom 1968 to 1981, WKNO's programming was repeated on WLJT in Lexington for viewers in the remainder of western Tennessee outside the Memphis metropolitan area. Afterward, that station eventually began broadcasting a separate programming schedule, including programming of local interest to that region.\n\nUnlike most of Tennessee's public television outlets, WKNO has never had direct or indirect ties to the state government, even though during its early years the station would identify as \"Tennessee Educational Television\" during in-school hours and \"Tennessee Public Television\" during off-school hours, including prime time.\n\nNational programming produced or presented by WKNO includes \"Travels & Traditions\" and other programs by Burt Wolf, \"Classic Gospel\", \"Sun Studio Sessions\", and \"GardenSMART\".\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nWKNO discontinued regular programming on its analog signal, over VHF channel 10, on May 1, 2009. The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 29, using PSIP to display WKNO's virtual channel as 10 on digital television receivers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262548", "title": "Athar Mubarakpuri", "text": "Athar Mubarakpuri\n\nAthar Mubarakpuri (7 May 1916 – 14 July 1996) was an Indian Sunni Islamic scholar, author and historian. He was honoured with the title of Muhsin-e-Hind by his contemporary Pakistani Ulama. \nMubarakpuri was born on 7 May 1916 in Mubarakpur, Azamgarh. He graduated in dars-e-nizami from Madrasa Ehya-ul-Uloom and moved to Madrasa Shahi, Moradabad to study ahadith. In Shahi, He studied Sahih Bukhari from Syed Fakhruddin Ahmad, Sahih Muslim from Maulana Ismail Sambhali and Tirmidhi from Syed Muhammad Miyan Deobandi.\n\nMubarakpuri on 14th of July, 1996 right after Fajr Salah spoke to his children that look my time has came, I have collected this treasure of knowledge suffering a lot of difficulties and problems; if you cannot safeguard it; please handover it to Aligarh Muslim University or Darul Uloom Deoband, so that common benefit from them remains going on. His funeral prayer was led by Abul Qasim Nomani. \n\nMubarakpuri wrote books on the relation of Indians and Arabs. In this series his books include \"Arb-o-Hind Ahd-e-Risalat Mai\", \"Khilafat-e-Rashida awr Hindustan\", \"Khilafat Amwiyyah awr Hindustan\", \"Khilafat Abbasiyah awr Hindustan\" and \"Hindustan mai Arbon ki hukumatein\". He served as the editor of \"Al-Balagh\" published from Bombay, a monthly journal in the following years 1961–62, 1966–67, 1973–76. He worked as an Islamic teacher in Anjuman Islam High School, Fort, Mumbai\nQazi Athar Mubarakpuri also wrote a column under the heading \"Jawahar-ul-Qur'an\" in the \"Inquilab Daily\", a newspaper published from Bombay, for around 40 years. During the British Raj he worked in Lahore but after Independence moved to Bombay.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262550", "title": "Thermodynamic limit", "text": "Thermodynamic limit\n\nThe thermodynamic limit, or macroscopic limit, of a system in statistical mechanics is the limit for a large number \"N\" of particles (e.g., atoms or molecules) where the volume is taken to grow in proportion with the number of particles.\nThe thermodynamic limit is defined as the limit of a system with a large volume, with the particle density held fixed.\n\nIn this limit, macroscopic thermodynamics is valid. There, thermal fluctuations in global quantities are negligible, and all thermodynamic quantities, such as pressure and energy, are simply functions of the thermodynamic variables, such as temperature and density. For example, for a large volume of gas, the fluctuations of the total internal energy are negligible and can be ignored, and the average internal energy can be predicted from knowledge of the pressure and temperature of the gas.\n\nNote that not all types of thermal fluctuations disappear in the thermodynamic limit—only the fluctuations in system variables cease to be important.\nThere will still be detectable fluctuations (typically at microscopic scales) in some physically observable quantities, such as\n\nMathematically an asymptotic analysis is performed when considering the thermodynamic limit.\n\nThe thermodynamic limit is essentially a consequence of the central limit theorem of probability theory. The internal energy of a gas of \"N\" molecules is the sum of order \"N\" contributions, each of which is approximately independent, and so the central limit theorem predicts that the ratio of the size of the fluctuations to the mean is of order 1/\"N\". Thus for a macroscopic volume with perhaps the Avogadro number of molecules, fluctuations are negligible, and so thermodynamics works. In general, almost all macroscopic volumes of gases, liquids and solids can be treated as being in the thermodynamic limit.\n\nFor small microscopic systems, different statistical ensembles (microcanonical, canonical, grand canonical) permit different behaviours. For example, in the canonical ensemble the number of particles inside the system is held fixed, whereas particle number can fluctuate in the grand canonical ensemble. In the thermodynamic limit, these global fluctuations cease to be important.\n\nIt is at the thermodynamic limit that the additivity property of macroscopic \"extensive\" variables is obeyed. That is, the entropy of two systems or objects taken together (in addition to their energy and volume) is the sum of the two separate values. In some models of statistical mechanics, the thermodynamic limit exists, but depends on boundary conditions. For example, this happens in six vertex model: the bulk free energy is different for periodic boundary conditions and for domain wall boundary conditions.\n\nA thermodynamic limit does not exist in all cases. Usually, a model is taken to the thermodynamic limit by increasing the volume together with the particle number while keeping the particle number density constant. Two common regularizations are the box regularization, where matter is confined to a geometrical box, and the periodic regularization, where matter is placed on the surface of a flat torus (i.e. box with periodic boundary conditions). However, the following three examples demonstrate cases where these approaches do not lead to a thermodynamic limit:\n\n"}
{"id": "2262571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262571", "title": "Rhoda Penmark", "text": "Rhoda Penmark\n\nRhoda Penmark is a fictional character and the protagonist in William March's 1954 novel \"The Bad Seed\" and the stage play adapted from it by Maxwell Anderson. Penmark is a child serial killer and psychopath who manipulates those around her. She was portrayed by Patty McCormack in the original rendition of the play and later in the 1956 film adaptation.\n\nRhoda Penmark is an eight-year-old girl who is charming, polite, and intelligent beyond her years. Beneath her lovable facade, however, she is a sociopath who is willing to harm and even kill anyone to get whatever she wants, whenever she wants it. She is also a precociously talented con artist, adept at manipulating adults. Other children, who can sense her true nature, avoid her. In the beginning of the novel, she brutally murders a classmate and a groundskeeper who suspects her. It is also revealed that she murdered an elderly neighbor and her pet dog a few years before.\n\nMarch writes that Rhoda's evil is genetic: her maternal grandmother, \"the incomparable Bessie Denker,\" was an infamous serial killer who also began killing at Rhoda's age. Rhoda's mother, Christine, was adopted at a very young age and doesn't remember her biological parents.\n\nWhile at a school picnic, Rhoda murders her classmate, Claude Daigle, who won a special penmanship award that she feels she deserved. After killing Claude, she retrieves the medal and leaves the dead boy's body in a local lake. While no one suspects Rhoda at first, Christine notices that her daughter seems startlingly indifferent to the other child's tragic death. Christine, who has always vaguely sensed something wrong with her daughter, is troubled, but dismisses any possibility that Rhoda was actually involved in the boy's death.\n\nOnly two adults see through Rhoda's charm: Leroy, the mean-spirited janitor at the Penmarks' apartment building; and, to a lesser extent, her teacher Miss Fern, who observes that she is a poor loser and rather selfish. Once Rhoda was even expelled from a school for repeatedly being caught lying to teachers and staff, who described her as a \"cold self-sufficient child who plays by her own rules.\"\n\nLeroy sees Rhoda as a kindred spirit and enjoys teasing her. One day, he spies on Rhoda and repeatedly threatens to \"tell on her\". Rhoda says no one would believe him, but begins to make plans to get rid of him, just in case.\n\nChristine tries to relieve her fears by talking abstractly about the murder with her adopted father and Mrs. Breedlove, a neighbor who dabbles in psychiatric theories about personality. During the conversation, she recovers a long-repressed memory of her real mother, \"the incomparable Bessie Denker\", a serial poisoner who died in the electric chair. That night, Claude's mother arrives, distraught and drunk, at Christine's home stating that there is \"something funny about this whole thing\" and asks Christine to ask Rhoda about her last few moments with the boy. While Christine is locating Rhoda's necklace, which Mrs. Breedlove is having engraved for the child, Christine finds the Penmanship Medal in Rhoda's treasure chest. She confronts Rhoda, who initially denies having done anything wrong, but confesses after Christine finds the bloodied shoes Rhoda had beaten Claude with before drowning him. Christine is horrified, but Rhoda cannot understand what all the fuss is about; after all, she says, \"It was Claude Daigle who drowned, not me.\"\n\nWhile Christine grapples with what to do, Rhoda silences Leroy by setting his mattress on fire while he's sleeping. When she learns what her daughter has done, Christine makes a gut-wrenching decision: she must kill Rhoda to keep her from killing again. She gives her a lethal dose of sleeping pills, hoping she will die without pain, and then commits suicide by shooting herself in the head.\n\nRhoda survives when a neighbor hears the shot and takes her to the hospital. Nobody is the wiser as to what Rhoda has done, and she is free to kill again.\n\nPatty McCormack portrayed Rhoda in the 1956 film adaptation. The ending was revised to fit the Hays Code, which did not permit characters to get away with their crimes. In this version, Rhoda is implied to have been killed by a bolt of lightning, while Christine survives her suicide attempt. After this scene there is a theater-style curtain call. After Nancy Kelly’s name and character is said, she walks over to the couch where McCormack is sitting, puts McCormack over her lap, and proceeds to spank her over her dress as McCormack repeatedly screams “NO!”\n\nThe character was played by Carrie Wells in the 1985 made for TV remake in which her name was changed from Rhoda to \"Rachel\".\n\nIn the 2018 remake starring and directed by Rob Lowe, the character Emma Grossman, portrayed by Mckenna Grace, is based on Rhoda Penmark.\n\nShe is ranked twelfth on Bloody Disgusting's list of \"The Top 16 Creepiest Kids in Horror Movie History\". Brian Solomon writes, \"The grand-mammy of all messed-up horror movie kids, Rhoda Penmark is a pint-sized terror of biblical proportions. If you think the ADHD-addled rugrats you see roaming shopping malls nowadays are bad, you ain’t seen nothin’ yet.\" Kristian Wilson of \"Bustle\" listed her among the \"19 Creepiest Kids In Fiction\" and stated that she was \"the bad little girl to end all bad little girls\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262572", "title": "Enchin", "text": "Enchin\n\nThe rivalry was largely geographical, and was not based much on sectarian differences over interpretations of practice or doctrine; nevertheless, the friction between the followers of the two \"zasu\" finally broke out into a violent conflict. Rivalres between the followers of different \"zasu\" were not anything new at that time. During his twelve years on Hiei, Enchin himself saw a conflict between direct disciples of Saichō (namely Enchō and Kōshō) and the disciples of his own master, the second Tendai \"zasu\" Gishin. After the death of Gishin, his main follower, Enshu, was elected as the third \"zasu\", but Enchō and Kōshō objected and finally forced Enshu and his followers to leave Mount Hiei. \n\nMost significantly, Enchin united the Tendai school's teachings with those of Chinese Esoteric Buddhism, and interpreted the \"Lotus Sutra\" from the point of view of esoteric teachings as well as used Tendai terminology in order to explain the esoteric \"Mahavairocana Tantra.\"\n\nEnchin is said to have supported the worship of native gods (\"kami\") and certain elements of Confucianism. In a memorial speech in 887, he noted the respect the court of Tang China had for Japan because of Japan's encouragement and welcoming of the ideals of \"li\" () and \"yi\" (). He warned that though Enryaku-ji was founded with the native gods in mind, \"no such officiating monks are provided for the main deities of the mountain. This is certainly a breach of Li. There ought to be two monks to worship the two gods.\"\n"}
{"id": "2262576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262576", "title": "Cooper River Bridge Run", "text": "Cooper River Bridge Run\n\nThe Cooper River Bridge Run was an annual one-way road running event across the Arthur Ravenel Jr. Bridge held in the cities of Mount Pleasant and Charleston in South Carolina, on the first Saturday in April (had been first Sunday of April in 1978, first Saturday in April from 1979 to its last running in 2019, unless that Saturday is Holy Week). The Bridge Run is the only competition in South Carolina sanctioned by USA Track and Field as an elite event. Based on number of race finishers, the event is the third largest 10K and the fifth largest road race in the United States. The 2020 event was set to be held on Saturday April 4th, and was postponed due to COVID-19 until August 1st, and was cancelled by a joint proclamation from the mayors of Charleston and Mt Pleasant on May 15th. \n\nIn the mid-1970s, Medical University of South Carolina employee Dr. Marcus Newberry had visited his Ohio hometown and noticed Bonne Bell had built a running track around their offices to encourage employees' physical fitness. Dr. Newberry wanted a way to encourage fitness in the Charleston Metropolitan region, and believed the best way was to feature an event running through the bridges crossing the Cooper River. The event organisers featured officials from the Charleston Running Club, The Citadel, the Medical University of South Carolina, and the College of Charleston.\n\nSouth Carolina state senator Dewey Wise introduced legislation to permit the event to be held over the reversible lane on the three-lane Silas Pearman Bridge.\n\nOn April 2, 1978, the initial race began from Patriots Point in Mount Pleasant to the White Point Gardens in Charleston's Battery region. Police shortened the initial event to 9,850 meters after the gun had sounded to start the initial Bridge Run. Officials expected 500 runners for the event (with 340 pre-registered), but on race day an additional 600 to 700 runners registered. 766 runners finished. Many dropped out of the race and some were hospitalized for effects from the heat, as there were no water stops on the course. In the tradition of historic Charleston's Civil War and Revolutionary War heritage, a cannon is fired to start the event. The first Kenyan runners to participate were a pair of Baptist College teammates in 1978. Runners from that country have dominated the run since 1993.\n\nFollowing complaints from heat exhaustion and also from area churches (While Charleston County has some Blue Laws exceptions in Charleston County in deference to the Jewish community, churches on the course complained about the Bridge Run taking place while church services took place), the 1979 event was moved to the Saturday in March, where it would be held until 1985. One water stop at the terminus of the bridge was added. (Four water stops were on the 2005 course.) The finish line moved to the campus of the College of Charleston. Over 1,350 were entered, with over 1,000 finishing. The 1979 event, the first at 10,000 meters, was the first South Carolina running event with over 1,000 participants. The 1980 finish ended in a tie.\n\nTwo consecutive Bridge Runs (1986 and 1987) were marred by illegal runners. In 1986, between 300 and 500 runners did not make the start, which had been delayed 30 minutes because of a vehicular collision on the Pearman Bridge (the only access to the start line) between two shuttle buses carrying runners to the start and an automobile 70 minutes before the scheduled start. They ran down the Pearman, through the cut between the two bridges, and started their run midway through the course, on the Grace.\n\nIn 1987, with unusually cold temperatures (start temperature was 39 degrees Fahrenheit (4c) with wind gusts from 20-35 MPH (32–55 km/h), runners kept their warmups instead of displaying their bibs. Officials estimated about 10% of the nearly 7,000 runners who crossed the finish lines were illegal, or \"bandit\", runners. The bandits were allowed to cross the finish line because officials could not distinguish who was legitimate and who was not.\n\nIn 1989, elite runners were warming up ahead of the start line on SC 703 when the cannon fired. Grete Waitz's record time was disallowed, but she was allowed to keep the win, when she was caught ahead of the start line at the cannon.\n\nThe 1995 event was the first time over 10,000 runners participated, and women made up over 3,000 of the runners, the first time in North or South Carolina where over 3,000 women finished in a running event.\n\nTransponder timing was instituted in 1997. The 2005-2008 races featured a permanent transponder which the runner could keep was implemented. A D-Tag timing system was used from 2009–10, and from 2011, transponder tags were affixed to competitors' bibs.\n\nThe total Bridge Run and Walk participants in 2004 was 29,930. Females accounted for 45.1% of finishers.\n\nIn 2012, logistical problems (only one shuttle bus entry point) led to over 10,000 runners being stuck on the shuttle buses on the Ravenel's northbound lanes (which the course uses) where officials could not close the bridge until 7:45 AM, 15 minutes before the scheduled start. The race was delayed to an 8:19 start time for the wheelchair division and an 8:59 start for the elite runners as result.\n\nThe last run on the Pearman in 2005 had a 42,000 runner and walker cap (25,000 runners, 17,000 walkers) for 2005, but many did not appear because of inclement weather which marred the start. The current limit is 44,000. The 2012 race featured 36,652 finishers, women dominated with 59.45% (21,789 F vs 14,917 M) of runners.\n\nThe scheduled start time was 10 AM in 1978, 9 AM from 1979 until 1982, 8:30 AM in 1983 until 1986, and 8 AM until 2019. Two unusual start delays caused by the unfamiliar course moved the 1984 start to 9 AM. \n\nThe John P. Grace Memorial Bridge had been declared unsafe for heavy trucks over ten tons in 1979, and the South Carolina Department of Transportation eliminated the reversible lane on the Silas N. Pearman Bridge which had been used for the Bridge Run course, as trucks on US Highway 17 South were now required to use that lane, instead of using the Grace. State Senator Wise was able to push for legislation to use the Grace bridge for the Bridge Run, SC Statue 56-5-3880.\n\nIn 1983, the Grace Bridge run added a second uphill climb on the Crosstown Overpass connecting the Grace Bridge to US Highway 17 and Interstate 26, and the race finished in front of the United States Federal Building in Marion Square at Meeting Street. With the number of entrants exceeding 2,000, the start moved from Patriots Point in 1984 to SC Highway 703 (Coleman Boulevard) at Shem Creek. This course became the first Bridge Run course to be certified by The Athletics Congress.\n\nRoad construction near Market Street in Charleston forced a slight rerouting in 1986, when the Bridge Run was moved to its present date in April unless Easter fell on that weekend.\n\nWith entrants exceeding 8,500 and a new 7,000 meter walk added, totaling over 10,000 participants, and tighter restrictions on weight on the Grace Bridge, in 1995 officials returned the Bridge Run to the Pearman bridge, with all three lanes being used, as traffic to Charleston could now be diverted to the Don N. Holt Bridge near Daniel Island on Interstate 526, which had opened in 1992. A new start line on SC 703 near Live Oak Street was positioned with runners passing Coming, Line, King, Market, and Meeting at Marion Square. With congestion becoming a concern, a year later officials moved back the finish to the corner of Meeting and Calhoun in Marion Square, resulting in a corresponding move back of the start on SC 703.\n\nIn 2000, the Bridge Run course went through a complete overhaul with the start further back on SC 703 near the shopping center, giving runners a 3,000 meter run on SC 703 before joining the walkers at the foot of the first span of the Pearman, then crossing the Crosstown Overpass, King Street, Calhoun Street, and finishing at Alexander. The course eliminated the use of Meeting Street, which had been used as the primary street in the past. This course would be used until 2005, when the Pearman and Grace bridges closed.\n\nIn 2003, a youth event was held on the Friday at Hampton Park to expand the festivities.\n\nMajor alterations to the course were necessary for 2006 as USA Track and Field had to measure a new course to reflect the opening of the Arthur Ravenel, Jr. Bridge and construction on the Ansonborough Fields complex resulted in the moving of the finish line away from Alexander Street, where it had been set since 2000, and a new finish line at George Street and Meeting Street, across from the Carolina First Arena in Charleston, was established. The finish festival was held at Marion Square, which is located a short walk as runners made the cooldown from the finish line.\n\nThe start line was slightly moved but remains near the shopping center, and proceeds on SC 703 for 3,000 meters before approaching the northbound exit ramp to SC 703 (run southbound, towards Charleston, the opposite direction of normal vehicular traffic), with the runners proceeding on the Arthur Ravenel, Jr. Bridge southbound on the four northbound lanes (the four southbound lanes on the bridge are not used; furthermore, the bike-pedestrian lane (which is aligned with the northbound lanes, but just off to East Bay Street and is not part of the course) is reserved for use by emergency staff) for 3,200 meters before exiting the bridge using the two-lane Meeting Street entrance ramp (runners are running the opposite direction of normal vehicular traffic), turning left on Meeting for 2,000 meters before, making a right at the Visitor's Center at John Street, then a quick left at King Street, before turning left at Wentworth Street, before a final run up Meeting Street the other direction before the finish line.\n\nTwo potential forms of cheating near the finish were dealt with using fencing at Marion Square at King Street (the finish festival site), and sponsor Bi-Lo parking a tractor-trailer at the intersection of Meeting and John to force runners to make the turn back to King. Furthermore, the live bands which play at the finish festival will be heard twice, as runners pass through Marion Square the first time on King Street, and after crossing the finish line and cooling down.\n\nConcerns over bottlenecking by walkers on course who entered the bridge walk at the 3,000 meter mark on Coleman Boulevard at Patriots Point (the original start line) and the NBC 2 studios eliminated the 7,000 meter walk, and required walkers to proceed through the entire 10,000 meter run starting in 2006. However, the rule was not as enforced as some had thought. Some walkers (and lower-seeded runners too) lined up on the sidewalks on SC 703 from Shem Creek to that studio, which is at the foot of the exit ramp from the bridge, instead of lining behind all runners at the start line, which was the instruction given to participants in the 2006 event in order to prevent incidents.\n\nAnother rule change in 2006 required runners to be seeded by time; elite and invited runners were ahead, then runners in the under 40 minute category, then 40-50, 50-60, past one hour, and walkers. The main goal was to prevent certain bottlenecking, although some bottlenecking did take place at the start line because of the transponder timing system.\n\nThe 2006 event also debuted the wheelchair category as a competitive event; twelve wheelchair and crankchair athletes competed in the event, which started at 7:30 AM, although Manny Marshall attempted to complete the course in a wheelchair by entering at the Chanel 2 studios at the 3km point.\n\nFor 2010 the turn from Meeting to King was changed from John Street to Wolfe Street, to avoid Piggly Wiggly #1 (a direct competitor to race sponsor Bi-Lo, although Bi-Lo later purchased this location in 2013), and to allow the bars to have bands perform. One notable performer was Dave Seitz and the King Street Band, fronted by the popular former South Carolina Stingrays player whose #14 is retired.\n\nStarting with the 2011 event, a wave start system is utilized to better handle crowding in the Mount Pleasant.\n\nInitially, the race attracted national-level runners. Benji Durden, whose opportunity to make the Olympic team was denied by President Jimmy Carter in 1980, won the first run. Frank Shorter and Ruth Wysocki ran in the early 1980s and Olympians Mark Conover and Janis Klecker were participants in the early 1990s. The race has featured top level international competitors, including Olympic medalists Grete Waitz, Catherine Ndereba, and Elana Meyer.\n\nOutside of elite runners, the run has also featured people prominent in other cultural spheres. Television personality Oprah Winfrey, running under a pseudonym, finished the 1994 race (3,839th with a time of 55:48 min). Actor Bill Murray fired the cannon for the 1997 Bridge Run and ran the event. In 2011, then-NASCAR Nationwide Series driver Aric Almirola, his wife Janice, and two members of the JR Motorsports #88 team from the 2011 season participated during an off-week in that series, and former state Governor Mark Sanford and two of his children also participated. Irish Olympic runner Sean Dollman, who retired after taking a job at the College of Charleston, came out of retirement at the Bridge Run and won the Dr. Marcus Newberry Award for best runner residing in the Charleston metropolitan region (Charleston, Berkeley, Dorchester counties) in 2002. In 2012, Zeddie Little became an internet meme known as the \"ridiculously photogenic guy\" after having a photo of him taken by Will King while running the race.\n\nKey:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262578", "title": "Laad Bazaar", "text": "Laad Bazaar\n\nLaad Bazaar or Choodi Bazaar is a very old market popular for bangles located in Hyderabad, India. It is located on one of the four main roads that branch out from the historic Charminar.\n\n\"Laad\" meaning lacquer is used to make bangles, on which artificial diamonds are studded. In this -long shopping strip, most of the shops sell bangles, saris, wedding related items, and imitation jewelry.\n\nThis market is very old, in operation since the time of the Qutb Shahis and the Nizams. It is close to landmarks such as Charminar, Makkah Masjid and Chowmahalla Palace .\n\nChoodi bazar is the main market for bangles, it is popular for bangles, semi-precious stones, pearls, jewellery, products such as silverware, Nirmal, Kalamkari paintings, bidriware, lacquer bangles studded with stones, saris and handwoven materials of silk, cotton. brocade, velvet and gold embroidered fabrics, traditional Khara Dupattas, lacquer bangles and perfumes.\n\nThe narrow lane is filled with burkha-clad women, bangle shops and old buildings with wooden balconies, bargaining and haggling is part and parcel of this market. Shopkeepers employ \"beckoning\" tactics, placing an employee at the entrance of the store beckoning passers-by to enter their shop.\nMany stores are furnished with a clean, soft cotton mattress that covers the entire floor. Customers sit on the soft cotton mattress without shoes, lean against a wall with a round pillow and the sales person presents all items on the floor. All business is conducted on this floor and often other employees use the padded area in the back, as they may be sorting or sewing.\nAuto rickshaws and cars are barred entrance from Charminar end (the preferred entrance) of the strip due to the narrow street being crowded, and only pedestrians, bicycles, motorcycles and scooters, and sometimes cycle-rickshaws are permitted to enter.\n\nSoutheast of Laad Bazar lie the palaces built by different Nizams including the Chowmahalla Palace.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262582", "title": "Horace Heidt", "text": "Horace Heidt\n\nHorace Heidt (May 21, 1901 – December 1, 1986) was an American pianist, big band leader, and radio and television personality. His band, Horace Heidt and his Musical Knights, toured vaudeville and performed on radio and television during the 1930s and 1940s.\n\nBorn in Alameda, California, Heidt attended Culver Academies. At the University of California, Berkeley, he was a guard on the football team. A broken back suffered in a practice session caused him to give up football, leading him to turn his attention to music. He and some classmates formed a band, The Californians.\n\nFrom 1932 to 1953, he was one of the more popular radio bandleaders, heard on both NBC and CBS in a variety of different formats over the years. He began on the NBC Blue Network in 1932 with Shell Oil's \"Ship of Joy\" and \"Answers by the Dancers\". During the late 1930s on CBS he did \"Captain Dobbsie's \"Ship of Joy\" and \"Horace Heidt's Alemite Brigadiers\" before returning to NBC for 1937–39 broadcasts. It was at this time that the band featured guitar legend Alvino Rey and The King Sisters.\n\nSinger Matt Dennis got his start with Heidt's band, and Art Carney was the band's singing comedian. The Heidt band's recordings were highly successful, with \"Gone with the Wind\" going to No. 1 in 1937 and \"Ti-Pi-Tin\" to No. 1 in 1938. In 1939, \"The Man with the Mandolin\" ranked No. 2 on the charts.\n\nHe and his band played on the NBC \"Pot o' Gold\" radio show (1939–41). The 1941 film of the same title, produced by James Roosevelt (son of the U.S. president) and directed by George Marshall, starred James Stewart and Paulette Goddard, and it featured Heidt portraying himself with his band. Carney can be glimpsed in some of the film's musical numbers. The movie gives a fairly accurate depiction of Heidt's radio show but features staged sequences, such as a scene in which a Minnesota farmer (allegedly phoned at random by Heidt during his radio show) is played by well-known character actor John Qualen.\n\nFrom 1940 to 1944 he did \"Tums Treasure Chest\", followed by 1943–45 shows on the Blue Network. Lucky Strike sponsored \"The American Way\" on CBS in 1953.\n\nOn December 7, 1947, NBC began \"The Horace Heidt Youth Opportunity Program\" and accordionist Dick Contino, the first winner of the $5,000 prize, soon had his own show. Heidt's talent search catapulted such performers as Florence Henderson, Art Carney, Frankie Carle, the King Sisters, Alvino Rey, Gordon MacRae, Frank DeVol, Johnny Standley and Al Hirt. When the program expanded from radio to television in 1950, it was one of the first talent shows on TV. Other winners included the Philharmonics, vocalist Ralph Sigwald, actor Dean Jones, and blind marimbist Pierce Knox.\n\nHorace Heidt died in 1986 and was interred at Forest Lawn Memorial Park in Hollywood Hills, Los Angeles.\n\nIn 1936 Horace Heidt conducted an ensemble of eight musicians all of whom played harmonica on Saturday evenings at the Drake Hotel in Chicago.\n\nFor his contribution to radio, Heidt has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 1631 Vine Street; and a second star for his contribution to television at 6628 Hollywood Boulevard. In 2001, a Golden Palm Star on the Palm Springs Walk of Stars was dedicated to him.\n\nHis 1941 song, \"The Hut-Sut Song\", is heard in the movie \"A Christmas Story\".\n\nAfter his retirement, Heidt built a 160 unit, 10 acre luxury retirement resort community in Sherman Oaks], California.\n\nHorace Heidt, Jr., wrote a book of the life and times of his father, entitled \"Horace Heidt: Big Band Starmaker]\".\n\nThe songs are listed with the most widely successful first.\n\nFriendly Tavern Polka\" was re-released on 3-25-44. It was US Billboard 24-1944 (1 week). \"Pound Your Table Polka\" sung by Mary Martin was US Billboard 22-1942 (1 week). \"It's in the Book\" sung by Johnny Standley was US Billboard 1-1952 (2 weeks) million seller.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262584", "title": "WPXX-TV", "text": "WPXX-TV\n\nWPXX-TV, virtual channel 50 (UHF digital channel 33), is an Ion Television owned-and-operated station licensed to Memphis, Tennessee, United States. The station is owned by West Palm Beach, Florida-based Ion Media Networks (the former Paxson Communications). WPXX-TV's studios and transmitter are located on Brother Boulevard in Bartlett, Tennessee. The station also serves as the \"de facto\" Ion outlet for the Jackson, Tennessee and Jonesboro, Arkansas markets.\n\nThe station first signed on the air on December 31, 1994, under the call letters WFBI; it was owned by Flinn Broadcasting, a company owned by Memphis businessman, radiologist (and later Shelby County commissioner) George Flinn. The station initially aired programming from the Home Shopping Network (sharing the affiliation with Holly Springs, Mississippi-based WBUY-TV channel 40, now a TBN owned-and-operated station), until Paxson Communications began operating the station under a local marketing agreement in 1998, when the station became a charter affiliate of the upstart Pax TV network (now Ion Television).\n\nOn February 22, 2006, News Corporation announced the launch of a new \"sixth\" network called MyNetworkTV, which would be operated by Fox Television Stations and its syndication division Twentieth Television. MyNetworkTV was created to compete against another upstart network that would launch at the same time that September, The CW (an amalgamated network that originally consisted primarily of UPN and The WB's higher-rated programs) as well as to give UPN and WB stations that were not mentioned as becoming CW affiliates another option besides converting to independent stations. Although WLMT (channel 30) had served as the market's UPN and WB affiliates, the MyNetworkTV affiliation instead went to WPXX, which officially joined the network (as a secondary affiliation) on September 5, 2006, branding itself as \"My50 Memphis\".\n\nIn mid-August 2007, Ion Media Networks announced that it would purchase WPXX and sister station WPXL-TV in New Orleans outright from Flinn Broadcasting for $18 million. The sale was approved by the Federal Communications Commission and was completed on January 2, 2008.\n\nOn September 28, 2009, WPXX dropped MyNetworkTV programming as the network converted to a syndicated programming service. CW affiliate WLMT chose to pick up the MyNetworkTV affiliation, but only for the purposes of carrying \"WWE SmackDown\" (which it aired on Saturday evenings, rather than on its recommended Friday night timeslot), declining to run the remainder of the network's schedule. That lasted until \"SmackDown\" moved to the Syfy cable channel in October 2010, at which point WLMT's second digital subchannel picked up the full MyNetworkTV lineup while Retro Television Network programing (which would be dropped in November 2011 in favor of MeTV) outside of prime time.\n\nWPXX-TV discontinued regular programming on its analog signal, over UHF channel 50, on June 12, 2009, as part of the federally mandated transition from analog to digital television. The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 51, using PSIP to display WPXX-TV's virtual channel as 50 on digital television receivers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262585", "title": "Software package metrics", "text": "Software package metrics\n\nVarious software package metrics are used in modular programming. They have been mentioned by Robert Cecil Martin in his 2002 book \"Agile software development: principles, patterns, and practices\".\n\nThe term software package here refers to a group of related classes in object-oriented programming.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262590", "title": "Cook Islands national rugby league team", "text": "Cook Islands national rugby league team\n\nThe Cook Islands national rugby league team has been participating in international rugby league football competition since 1986. The team is controlled by the governing body for rugby league in Cook Islands, Cook Islands Rugby League Association (CIRLA), which is currently a member of the Asia-Pacific Rugby League Confederation (APRLC). They are currently ranked 23rd in the RLIF World Rankings.\n\nBefore 1995, the Cooks’ international experience was limited to participation in the Pacific Cup, and hosting the touring British Amateur Rugby League Association Great Britain Amateur teams. Nonetheless, the sizeable number of expatriate Cook Islanders living and playing in New Zealand has ensured that they have never been short of players with rugby league experience.\n\nThey won the 1995 Emerging Nations tournament, defeating United States, Russia and Scotland before beating Ireland in the final.\n\nIn 1996 and 1997 the Cook Islands competed in the Super League World Nines. They also played several full internationals against other South Pacific nations, most notably as part of the Papua New Guinea 50th Anniversary Tournament in October 1998. 2000 saw the Cook Islands competing in the World Cup for the first time. They finished third in their pool after losing to Wales and the Kiwis and only managing a draw against Lebanon.\n\nThe Cook Islands successfully toured New Zealand in 2005 with a three test series against the New Zealand Māori ending in a draw after the first test was drawn 26–26 and the second and third tests were split between both sides.\n\nThe Cook Islands played Fiji, Tonga and Samoa in the Pacific pool of Qualifying for the 2008 Rugby League World Cup. Fiji and Tonga qualified, and Samoa earned a second chance in the repecharge round. The Cook Islands, having lost to all three teams, were eliminated.\n\nThe Cook Islands participated in the 2009 Pacific Cup. Having beaten Samoa to earn a place in the tournament, they went on to defeat favourites Fiji and earn a place in the final of the competition.\n\nThe Cook Islands were given automatic entry into the 2013 Rugby League World Cup they were placed in Pool D alongside Wales and the United States before playing an Inter-Group match against Tonga. Going into the Tournament, 'the Kukis' had never won a World Cup match. The team lost to the USA and to Tonga, but they won their last match against the Tournament co-hosts Wales, making history for the sport of rugby league in the Cook Islands. This is the Cook Islands' best Rugby League World Cup result to date.\n\nIn October 2015 the Cook Islands took on Tonga in the Asia-Pacific elimination play-off to determine which of the two Asia-Pacific nations would qualify for the 2017 Rugby League World Cup. After a tight first half, the Tongans would go on win the match scoring 16 points within the last 20 minutes of the game.\n\nIn June 2019, Cook Islands took on South Africa at Ringrose Park in Wentworthville, winning 66–6. They then went on to play the United States at Hodges Stadium in Jacksonville in November. They won 38–16, qualifying them into the 2021 Rugby League World Cup.\n\nThe Cook Islands Squad for the World Cup Qualifier against United States in November 2019.\n\nThe Cook Islands have also participated in:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262593", "title": "Felician Sisters", "text": "Felician Sisters\n\nThe Felician Sisters, officially known as the Congregation of Sisters of St. Felix of Cantalice Third Order Regular of St. Francis of Assisi (CSSF), is a religious institute of pontifical right whose members profess public vows of chastity, poverty, and obedience and follow the evangelical way of life in common. This active-contemplative religious institute was founded in Warsaw, Poland, in 1855, by Sophia Truszkowska, and named for a shrine of St. Felix, a 16th-century Capuchin saint especially devoted to children.\n\nWhen Sophia Camille Truszkowska was twelve years of age, her family moved to Warsaw where her father took up the position of Registrar of Deeds. Initially, she wished to become a Visitation nun, but in 1854 she joined the Society of St. Vincent de Paul and began to work among the poor. With her father’s financial assistance, she rented a flat in order to care for several orphaned girls and aged women. Sophia was joined in her work by her cousin and close friend, Clothilde Ciechanowska. Later that year they became lay members of the Franciscan Third Order. On the Feast of the Presentation of the Blessed Virgin Mary, November 21, 1855, while praying before an icon of Our Lady of Czestochowa, they solemnly dedicated themselves to do the will of Jesus Christ in all things. Hereafter this was recorded as the official founding day of the Congregation of the Sisters of St. Felix of Cantalice.\n\nPeople began calling them \"Sisters of St. Felix.\" in reference to the shrine of St. Felix of Cantalice at a nearby Capuchin church. They were popularly referred to as \"Felician Sisters,\" the name by which the community is still known. In 1857, she and several associates took the Franciscan habit. Sophia took the new name of Mary Angela. In 1869 health problems caused her to withdraw from administration of the Congregation. She spent the next thirty years on assignments in the garden and greenhouse, tending flowers for the chapel and in the liturgical vestment sewing room, embroidering altar cloths and chasubles. She died at the provincial house in Kraków on October 10, 1899. Mother Mary Angela Truszkowska was beatified by Pope John Paul II in 1993.\n\nThe Felician sisters came to the United States in 1874, at the invitation of Rev. Joseph Dabrowski, pastor of St. Joseph Parish in Polonia, Wisconsin. There they taught I the parish school. \n\nIn 1947 Felician Sisters of Our Lady of the Angels Province, Enfield, Connecticut, accepted and offer to purchase the Paine Private Hospital located in Bangor, Maine; the name of the facility was changed to St. Joseph Hospital.\n\nEventually, their work spread to Canada and Haiti.\n\nMost Felician Sisters maintain the religious garb of their Foundress, Blessed Mary Angela Truszkowska, consisting of a brown habit (beige during summer months), scapular, (jacket at specified times), headdress, black veil, collar, Felician wooden crucifix suspended on tape or cord, and simple ring received at final profession. This remains a discipline in the Kraków, Przemyśl and Warsaw provinces in Poland, and a treasured tradition in the former Livonia and Enfield provinces in North America. At the 1994 General Chapter, a proposal passed allowing the sisters to wear an alternate habit consisting of a brown, black, beige or white skirt, blazer, suit or jumper along with a white blouse. Sisters wearing the alternate habit wear the Felician Crucifix along with the ring received at final profession and may wear it with our without a veil.\n\nThe Felician Sisters have always sought to harmonize a deep spiritual and community life with dedication to diverse acts of mercy. As of 2014, there were 1,800 professed members of the Felician Sisters, with about 700 in the North American Province. They use the abbreviation/post-nominal C.S.S.F. (Congregation of the Sisters of St. Felix).\n\nThey remain active in education, operating, among other facilities, the St. Mary Child Care Center in Livonia, Michigan; Immaculate Conception High School, founded in 1915 in Lodi, New Jersey; and Villa Maria College in Buffalo, New York. Built on the site of a former Felician orphanage, Our Lady of Grace Village in Newark, Delaware is a 60-unit affordable housing community. The St. Felix Centre in Toronto, Canada offers Respite services. \nIn Holly, Michigan, they run the Maryville Retreat Center. \n\nAs part of the Catholic Volunteer Network, the North American Province has a Felician Volunteers in Mission (VIM) program which offers both short and long-term service opportunities to lay men and women interested in partnering with the Felician Sisters to serve, with compassion, mercy and joy, the disadvantaged and underserved.\n\n\nIn North America, the Felician Sisters have ministered primarily to Polish Americans since their arrival from Poland in 1874. The sisters provided social mobility for young Polish women. Although the congregation was involved in the care of orphans, the aged, and the sick, teaching remained its primary concern.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262599", "title": "Cage", "text": "Cage\n\nA cage is an enclosure often made of mesh, bars, or wires, used to confine, contain or protect something or someone. A cage can serve many purposes, including keeping an animal or person in captivity, capturing an animal or person, and displaying an animal at a zoo.\n\nSince a cage is usually intended to hold living beings, at least some part of its structure must be such as to allow for the entry of light and air. Thus some cages may be made with bars spaced too closely together for the intended captive to slip between them, or with windows covered by a mesh of some sort.\n\nCages are often used to confine animals, and some are specially designed to fit a certain species of animal. One or more birds, rodents, reptiles, and even larger animals of certain breeds are sometimes confined in a cage as pets. \n\nAnimal cages have been a part of human culture since ancient times. For example, an Ancient Greek vase dated to 490 B.C. depicts a boy holding a possibly domesticated rabbit on his lap, with a cage with an open door in the background. The biblical Book of Jeremiah refers to a tribe being like \"cages full of birds\", and the Book of Ezekiel describes the capture of a lion in which the captors \"pulled him into a cage and brought him to the king of Babylon\".\n\nThe different laws governing the keeping of animals in captivity generally provide for the size of cages or minimum equipment, depending on the species, whether for transport or for breeding. Swiss legislation, for example, defines minimum absolute internal dimensions for pet cages, but the Swiss Animal Protection organization (PSA) states that even if these dimensions comply with the law, they are far from being in line with the needs of species. It is therefore necessary in practice to provide a much higher vital space to ensure the well-being of the occupants.\n\nAnimal protection associations have often argued for improving transport conditions in cages and for bans on battery cages, especially for egg-laying hens. The European legislation is constantly changing, but consumer behavior also influences breeding conditions.\n\nCages also serve as a trapping tool. This is a common and illegal purpose of the cage, as poaching is illegal itself. These type of cages are used to trap an animal, or hold them for a certain period of time. U.S. President Theodore Roosevelt used a cage himself to capture a bear, as the cage serves a purpose for capturing large animals.\n\nIn history, prisoners were sometimes kept in a cage. During the Vietnam War they were referred to as \"tiger cages\". Captives would sometimes be chained up inside into uncomfortable positions to intensify suffering. In medieval England, King Edward punished Robert the Bruce in part by having two of his sisters encaged in public.\n\n\nCages are used in various forms of entertainment to create excitement from the sense that the entertainers are trapped in the cage. For example, cage dancing \"refers to a scantily-clad feminine dancer, perhaps wearing a mini-skirt or hot- pants, and (supposedly) trapped inside of a hanging bird cage\". Cage fighting involves two combatants, usually engaging in mixed martial arts, inside a cage-like structure, and \"conjures up the image of two combatants trapped in a cage, trading vicious blows as the audience bays for blood\". In Australia, a ban on the use of \"cage-like enclosures\" at such events was lifted in 2014. Steel cages are also one of the oldest form of enclosures used in professional wrestling. The first \"steel cage match\" of any kind took place on June 25, 1937 in Atlanta, Georgia. This match took place in a ring surrounded by chicken wire, in order to keep the athletes inside, and prevent any potential interference.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262600", "title": "Fiji national rugby league team", "text": "Fiji national rugby league team\n\nThe Fiji national rugby league team, nicknamed the Bati (pronounced ), has been participating in international rugby league football since 1992. The team is controlled by the governing body for rugby league in Fiji, Fiji National Rugby League (FNRL), which is currently a member of the Asia-Pacific Rugby League Confederation (APRLC). Fiji have thrice reached the semi-finals of the Rugby League World Cup, in 2008, 2013 and 2017, and are currently ranked 5th in the Rugby League International Federation's World Rankings.\n\nThe game was introduced to Fiji only in 1992 but despite this there has been a long history of Fijian players making their mark in rugby league, most notably back in the 1960s when great players such as Joe Levula and Laitia Ravouvou joined Rochdale Hornets and became household names in the English competition.\n\nInterest and participation in rugby league snowballed throughout Fiji, and as well as continued success in the World Sevens, the Batis began playing full 13-aside games against international teams. By 1994, Fiji had hammered the Great Britain Amateur tourists (40-8) and, captained by mighty front-rower James Pickering, beat France (20-12).\n\nThey had also produced their first rugby league superstar after winger Noa Nadruku joined Canberra Raiders and in 1993 became the top try-scorer in the Australian competition.\n\nFiji took part in their first World Cup in 1995 where, just as the 2000 World Cup, they had the misfortune to be placed in the same group as both England and Australia. But the Batis made a massive impression in their opening World Cup game in which they ran riot against South Africa, 52-6, and had the crowd on their feet at Keighley.\n\nDuring the Super League war, Fiji, like most countries other countries, aligned itself with Super League. In search of international competition, the Australian Rugby League played a match against a \"National Rugby League of Fiji\" team in 1996. This match has been granted Test status by the Australian Rugby League, but not by the Rugby League International Federation.\n\nCoached by Don Furner, Sr. and captained by Lote Tuqiri, Fiji competed in the 2000 World Cup but did not progress past the tournament's group stage.\n\nThe Fiji Bati qualified for the 2008 Rugby League World Cup held in Australia after finishing second in Pacific qualifying behind Tonga. Fiji's qualification campaign started with a thrilling 30-28 loss to Samoa before reversing the scoreline a few days later with a 30-28 win over the Tongans. Fiji won their final qualifying game against Cook Islands 40-4. Having qualified the Vodafone Fiji Bati team started their Rugby League World Cup 2008 campaign with 42-6 win over France followed by a 2-point defeat to Scotland, however they topped their group with a superior points difference. Beating Ireland in their quarter final they came within one match of the World Cup final, but were defeated by Australia, ending the tournament in 4th place.\n\nFiji automatically qualified for the 2013 Rugby League World Cup after participating in the 2008 tournament. They took on \nAustralia, England and Ireland in the pool stage. In their first match they took on 'the Wolfhounds'. They played at the famous Spotland Stadium, in Rochdale, where Fiji have an historic affiliation with. The Fijians convincingly won by a score of 32-14. As expected Fiji lost to both Australia and England, although they surprised many, as they only conceded 34 points against the teams in each game and they led 2-0 against Australia, and were within a few minutes of taking a half-time lead against England. Fiji would take on 'fierce Pacific rivals' Samoa in the quarter final. They won the, passionate pacific, fixture and they would celebrate with a 22-4 victory. They celebrated even more, as it meant Fiji reached their second consecutive World Cup semi-final. They took on Australia again, but this game was nothing like the group stage fixture. Fiji's errors conceded them 62 points against a classy Australian side. This defeat ended and equalled their best World Cup campaign in their history.\n\nIn May 2014, Fiji took on Samoa in the 2014 Pacific Rugby League Test at Penrith Stadium. The International was created as a qualifier for the final 2014 Four Nations spot. It was also a chance for the Four Nations team (winner of this international) to warm-up before the event kicked off later in the year. Fiji failed to qualify with their fierce pacific rivals getting the better of them by 32-16.\n\nIn May 2015, Fiji took on Papua New Guinea in the 2015 Melanesian Cup test at Cbus Super Stadium. Fiji won the match and the inaugural Melanesian Cup title. Fiji never looked like losing the match after an easy first half performance, leading 18-0 at the break. They went on to win the test match by 22-10.\n\nIn May 2016, Fiji took on Papua New Guinea in the 2016 Melanesian Cup test at Pirtek Stadium. Fiji had a similar situation in this year's Melanesian Cup with a half-time score of 16-8 but this time around they conceded too many second half points allowing the Kumuls to make a shock comeback and win the match 24-22.\n\nFiji automatically qualified for the 2021 Rugby League World Cup having reached the semi finals of the previous Rugby League World Cup. The 2021 tournament will take place in England. \n\n17 man squad vs PNG Kumuls for the 2019 Pacific Test.\n\nFiji have also participated in:\n\n\nThe following table underneath shows Fiji's all-time rugby league results record. They have been participating in International fixtures since 1992.\n\nTonga have played 83 internationals with the most recent being played on 2 November 2019 against Australia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262603", "title": "Mera Naam Joker", "text": "Mera Naam Joker\n\nMera Naam Joker ( \"My Name is Joker\") is a 1970 Indian drama film, directed and produced by Raj Kapoor, and written by Khwaja Ahmad Abbas. The film stars Kapoor as the eponymous character, with Simi Garewal, Kseniya Ryabinkina and Padmini in supporting roles, and it was also the debut of Raj Kapoor's son Rishi Kapoor. The plot focuses on a clown who must make his audience laugh at the cost of his own sorrows. Three women who shaped his life view his final performance.\nInitially derided for its extremely long running-time, the film later on became a cult classic and is regarded as one of Raj Kapoor's best films and among the best Bollywood films of the 20th century.\n\nThe film is one of the lengthiest films of Indian cinema. After \"Sangam\" became a blockbuster, \"Mera Naam Joker\" was highly anticipated as it was under production for six years and heavily publicized, loosely based on Kapoor's own life. The film was partly made with the participation of Soviet actors and was partly shot in Moscow. The film's music, still very popular, was composed by Shankar Jaikishan, for which the duo got their ninth Filmfare award.\n\nIn India, upon release the film was rejected by audiences and critics, putting Kapoor into a financial crisis, as the film was panned for its length and plot. The film has gained a cult status, and is regarded as a classic today. Both audience's and critics' response has turned highly favorable with the passage of time. An abridged version was released in the 1980s and had a highly successful run at the box office. Kapoor termed it his favorite film and described it as having deep philosophical depth and meaning. The film is regarded as one of Kapoor's finest works today with film experts labeling it as a \"misunderstood masterpiece\".\n\nIn the Soviet Union, the film also initially drew a mixed reaction from critics, yet commercially became a blockbuster at the Soviet box office after it released there in 1972. Rather than being released as a single film, the film's three chapters were released separately as three parts in the Soviet Union. The three parts of the film collectively sold tickets at the Soviet box office.\n\n\"Mera Naam Joker\" is the story of Raju, considered the best circus clown ever. Ever since Raju's father died in an accident during his performance, Raju's mother had been repulsed by the circus. As luck would have it, Raju had a natural affinity towards the circus world. The film traces Raju's journey from his childhood to the day of his last performance.\n\nThe first chapter is about an adolescent called Raju (Rishi Kapoor) and deals with his infatuation with his teacher, Mary (Simi Garewal). She gives him confidence in himself, and he discovers the world of femininity and desire. She is older than him. He attends her wedding in a state of false merriment. Mary's lessons nevertheless aren't lost: Raju comes to realise that he was born to make the world laugh, despite his own troubles.\n\nAfter his first heartbreak, the story follows adult Raju (Raj Kapoor) who has found work with Gemini Circus as a clown. His dream materialises: The circus is owned by Mahendra Singh (Dharmendra), who has understood Raju's potential and hires him. The circus hosts a visiting group of artists from Russia, and he falls in love with Marina (Ksenia Ryabinkina), the lead trapezist. Despite the language barrier, they become close, and Raju half hopes that they might live together. But he faces heartbreak once again when the circus ends and Marina returns to Russia. It is in this chapter that Raju's mother dies during his performance, watching him perform the very stunts which caused her husband's death.\n\nIn the final chapter, Raju has left the circus and wanders aimlessly. One day, he meets Meenu (Padmini), an orphaned girl who has ambitions of becoming a famous actress. Meenu and Raju set up an association, start a small circus business and later move on to the theatre. They are quite successful, but their collaboration ends when she is offered a role in a film. She leaves him, and he realises she has used him in her pursuit of success.\n\nRaju always carries a clown doll which belonged to his father. Every time he falls in love, he gives away his beloved doll, only to see it come back to him. The doll is used as a metaphor for Raju's simplistic heart where there is room for everyone.\n\nAt the end of the film, Raju is shown doing his final act, as promised to Mahendra. He invites the three ladies he was in love with, to watch his last performance. He also reassures the audience that he will soon be back with more to make his audience laugh again.\n\n\nAll music composed by Shankar-Jaikishan.\n\"Mera Naam Joker\" was under production for six years, with Raj Kapoor investing much of his own personal fortune. All his assets were mortgaged.\n\nUpon release in India, \"Mera Naam Joker\" was widely derided for its length and the experimental nature of its plot, and it became a critical and commercial failure. The film had two intervals. It later came to be considered a cult classic, and it is considered one of Kapoor's best films. Its reputation was revived, which happened after India was introduced to world cinema. Kapoor's mask was burned in a fire at RK Studios.\n\nIn the Soviet Union, the film initially also drew a mixed reaction from critics. Despite this, the film became a commercial blockbuster at the Soviet box office after it released there in 1972. Rather than being released as a single film, the film's three chapters were released separately as three parts in the Soviet Union. The first part drew 29million box office admissions, the second part drew 22.6million admissions, and the final part 21.5million admissions, adding up to a total of 73.1million admissions at the Soviet box office. This was equivalent to approximately 73.1/(100/25) round 2million руб (, ) at the time, or () adjusted for inflation in 2018.\n\nThe movie had a running time 255 minutes with two intervals. The international DVD release from Yash Raj Films Home Entertainment runs for 233 minutes (224 with the disc's PAL speed-up), while the Indian DVD by Shemaroo Entertainment is heavily cut at 184 minutes. \"Mera Naam Joker\" is the second Hindi film to have two intervals, the first being \"Sangam\" (1964).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262610", "title": "Geh Min", "text": "Geh Min\n\nDr. Geh Min () is the former President of Nature Society in Singapore. She was formerly a Nominated Member of Parliament from January 2005\nto April 2006.\n\nGeh is a former student of Methodist Girls' School and Anglo-Chinese School. She is a medicine graduate of the National University of Singapore and works as a consultant ophthalmologist at Mount Elizabeth Medical Centre, and as a visiting consultant at the Singapore National Eye Centre and the National University Hospital. She is the granddaughter of philanthropist Lee Kong Chian.\n\nIn December 2004, Geh was appointed as a Nominated Member of Parliament.\n\nIn 2006, Geh was one of the three recipients of the inaugural President's Award for the Environment, along with Tommy Koh and the Waterways Watch Society (WWS).\n\nGeh heads the Environment and Health Functional Committee of the South-West Community Development Council. She is a Board Member of the Nature Conservancy's Asia Pacific Council; the Water Network of the PUB; and the Singapore Environment Council.\n"}
{"id": "2262617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262617", "title": "Noonday, Georgia", "text": "Noonday, Georgia\n\nNoonday (spelled Noon Day on 1860s maps) was an unincorporated community located in far north-central Cobb County, Georgia, United States. It was centered at 34°03'43\"N, 84°31'16\"W (34.0620437, -84.5213204), along former Georgia highway 5, around the Noonday Baptist Church. This Baptist church is still active today.\n\nThe community took its name from nearby Noonday Creek. The community of Blackwells was south of Noonday.\n"}
{"id": "2262625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262625", "title": "American Samoa national rugby league team", "text": "American Samoa national rugby league team\n\nThe American Samoa national rugby league team represents American Samoa at rugby league football and has been participating in international competition since 1988.\n\nAmerican Samoa has participated in:\n\nCabramatta International Nines Rugby League competition/ Sydney: (2008, 2013, 2015)\n\n\n\n\"Winning team given first\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPlayers:\nAmerika Samoa Rugby League 2015 Squad:\n\nTinetali Papali'i (C)\nVictor Tutuila (VC)\nHenry Teofilo\nVinnie Uelese\nHenry Godinet\nJustin Lemalu\nDenny Godinet\nTutuila Tutuila\nEnoka Time\nTarrant Mariner\nRaymond Ioane\nAaron Teariki\nLiam Roebeck\nBen Masoe\nJordan Meads\nTyga Vatuvei\n\nCoach: Paul Roebeck\n\nAssistant Coach: Mikey Misilei Mamae\n\nStrength and Conditioning Coach: Jordan Roebeck\n\nManager: Leanne Roebeck, Shane Roebeck\n\nAmerika Samoa Rugby League Squad 2016:\n\nTinetali Papali'i (C)\nVictor Tutuila (VC)\nHenry Teofilo\nVinnie Uelese\nHenry Godinet\nJustin Lemalu\nDenny Godinet\nTutuila Tutuila\nEnoka Time\nTarrant Mariner\nRaymond Ioane\nAaron Teariki\nLiam Roebeck\nBen Masoe\nJordan Meads\nTyga Vatuvei\nShaun Va'alepu\nWilson Faanoi\nJoseph Toetu - Ioane\nJermaine Johansson\nFeka Silva\nPatrick Masoe\n\nCoach: Paul Roebeck\n\nAssistant Coach: Mikey Misilei Mamae\n\nStrength and Conditioning Coach: Jordan Roebeck\n\nManager: Leanne Roebeck, Shane Roebeck\n\nPhysio: TBA\n"}
{"id": "2262629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262629", "title": "Minami-Matsuura District, Nagasaki", "text": "Minami-Matsuura District, Nagasaki\n\nAs of January 1, 2009 the district has an estimated population of 22,893 and a density of 107 persons per km². The total area is 213.97 km². It forms part of the Gotō Islands.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262639", "title": "Law enforcement in Vietnam", "text": "Law enforcement in Vietnam\n\nThe law enforcement in Vietnam is called the Vietnam People's Public Security. It is under command of the Ministry of Public Security.\n\nVietnam People's Public Security is a part of Vietnam People's Armed Forces, it includes two branches:\n"}
{"id": "2262645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262645", "title": "Aperitif for Destruction", "text": "Aperitif for Destruction\n\nAperitif for Destruction is the fourth album by Richard Cheese, released May 24, 2005. The album title and artwork parody Guns N' Roses' 1987 album, \"Appetite for Destruction\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2262647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262647", "title": "Ernie Anderson", "text": "Ernie Anderson\n\nErnest Earle Anderson (November 12, 1923 – February 6, 1997) was an American radio and television personality, horror host, and announcer.\n\nBest known for his portrayal of \"Ghoulardi,\" the host of a late night horror films on WJW Channel 8 on Cleveland television from 1963 to 1966, he also worked as an announcer for the American Broadcasting Company (ABC) television network from the late 1970s until the mid-1990s.\n\nHe is the father of filmmaker Paul Thomas Anderson.\n\nAnderson was born in Boston and grew up in Lynn, Massachusetts, the son of Emily (Malenson) and Ernest C. Anderson. Anderson planned to go to law school, but instead joined the U.S. Navy during World War II to avoid being drafted. In an interview, his son Paul Thomas Anderson spoke of his military service:\n\nHe (Ernie) was in the Navy stationed mainly in Guam. I don't think he did any fighting. I think he was trying - he was fixing airplanes and knew just where the beer was stashed and played the saxophone in bands and stuff like that. You know, every picture I have of him [shows] a beer in his hand. Every single picture from the war he's got - so he was pretty good about probably finding ways to get out of fighting. But again, you know, we never really talked that much about it.\n\nAfter the war, Anderson attended Suffolk University for two years, then took a job as a disc jockey at WSKI in Montpelier, Vermont. Anderson worked as a disc jockey in Albany, New York and Providence, Rhode Island before moving to Cleveland, Ohio in 1958 to join radio station WHK.\n\nAfter WHK switched to a Top 40 format in late 1958, Anderson was let go as his persona didn't fit with the format's newer, high-energy presentation. According to Anderson's lifelong friend, comic actor Tim Conway, Anderson was at a WHK Christmas party \"telling this long elaborate joke and just as he's about to deliver the punch line his boss cuts in and says it. So Ernie looks at him and says, 'Why did you do that?' And his boss says, 'I anticipated it.' So Ernie said, 'Anticipate this' and tells him '(expletive) yourself.' Well, Ernie got fired.\"\"\n\nAnderson switched to television, joining the Cleveland NBC affiliate KYW-TV (now WKYC), where he first collaborated with Conway for some on-air work. In mid-1961, both Anderson and Conway moved to then-CBS affiliate WJW-TV to host a local morning movie show called \"Ernie's Place,\" which also featured live skits and comedy bits reminiscent of \"Bob and Ray\". When the two joined the station, Anderson sold Conway to WJW's management team as a director for the program, even though Conway lacked qualifications and experience for that position. Conway proved unable to do the work, and other staffers, including technician Chuck Schodowski, were called in to assist, before Conway was ultimately dismissed. With Anderson deprived of his comic foil, \"Ernie's Place\" was canceled, but management soon offered him a horror host role for a local incarnation of \"Shock Theater\" that WJW acquired the rights to air late-nights on Fridays.\n\nFrom 1963 to 1966, Anderson hosted \"Shock Theater\" under the alter ego of Ghoulardi, a hipster that defied the common perception of a horror host. While this version of \"Shock Theater\" also featured grade \"B\" science fiction and horror films, Ghoulardi mocked the films he was hosting, and spoke in an accent-laden beatnik slang. Often, comedic sound effects or music would be inserted in place of the movie's audio track. Occasionally, Ghoulardi would even insert \"himself\" into a film and appear to run from the monster, using a chroma key system that WJW normally utilized for art cards. He loved firecrackers (although their possession was illegal in Ohio) and started by blowing up apples and leftovers and graduated to blowing up model cars, statues and other items sent in by viewers.\n\nOne remnant of \"Ernie's Place\" was also revived: the live comedy sketches and skits, only with Chuck Schodowski assuming Conway's role as Anderson's primary sidekick. On occasion, Conway would make cameo appearances on the program and serve as a writer, but Conway had meanwhile become a nationally known star on ABC's comedy series \"McHale's Navy\".\n\nAnderson's \"Ghoulardi\" persona often lampooned \"unhip\" targets, the most famous being Dorothy Fuldheim. Fuldheim was the first woman to anchor a TV news show in the United States, and a lifelong staffer for Cleveland's ABC affiliate WEWS. She openly expressed a dislike for Anderson, feeling that the youth of Ohio were under attack with his pot jokes and childish antics, which she found distasteful. Ghoulardi responded by mocking her every week, usually referring to her as \"Dorothy Baby.\" Their mutual on-air jibes created what viewers considered a battle of \"the beatnik and the empress of Ohio news.\"\n\nAnderson also developed \"Parma Place\", a weekly series of skits aired during the Ghoulardi show that parodied both the popular prime-time soap opera \"Peyton Place\" and the bedroom community of Parma, Ohio. \"Parma Place\" became an instant hit among the viewers, but its heavy use of ethnic jokes and asides toward Parma eventually caused that city's elected officials to complain to WJW management. While the station acquiesced and ordered the cancellation of \"Parma Place\", the publicity from that incident and the Fuldheim feud put the Ghoulardi character at the peak of his popularity.\n\nBy 1965, Anderson not only hosted \"Shock Theater\" but also the Saturday afternoon \"Masterpiece Theater\" and the weekday children's program \"Laurel, Ghoulardi and Hardy,\" all of which were ratings successes. Anderson also created the \"Ghoulardi All-Stars\" sports teams, which would often attract thousands of fans to as many as 100 charity contests a year. With some help from Conway, Anderson even went to Hollywood to shoot a TV pilot, and featured the audition and films of his trip on his show, highly unusual for local TV in 1966.\n\nPromises of becoming an actor in Los Angeles, as well as fatigue on Anderson's part, led up to his decision to leave Cleveland permanently in the summer of 1966. \"Shock Theater\" ended in October 1966, and the Ghoulardi name was retired. WJW tapped both Schodowski and weather presenter Bob Wells (aka \"Hoolihan the Weatherman\") to co-host the successive program, \"Hoolihan and Big Chuck\".\n\nAfter moving to Los Angeles, Anderson first appeared on the first two episodes of \"Rango\", a short-lived comedy that starred Conway. Anderson and Conway soon collaborated on a comedy act, appearing together on ABC's \"Hollywood Palace\" and later releasing two comedy albums together. Beginning in 1974, Anderson replaced Lyle Waggoner as announcer for \"The Carol Burnett Show\", on which his old performing partner Conway (who had been a recurring guest on the show) became a regular performer beginning in the following year.\n\nAnderson found it a challenge to land acting work. His son, Paul Thomas Anderson, also attributes this to his father's profound limitations as an actor: \"He was a bad actor, so he never really made it...No, he was bad. When we used to make home movies, he'd be in them and he was bad. We'd be like: 'You fucker. No wonder you couldn't get any jobs'.\"\n\nAnderson admittedly had lifelong difficulty with memorization. He moved behind the microphone when Fred Silverman made Anderson the voice of the American Broadcasting Company. His voice was heard in the ABC bumpers during the 1970s and 1980s saying \"This is... ABC!\" Anderson's voice is likely best remembered for introducing and promoting the ABC television series \"The Love Boat\" and for his newscast introductions for various ABC stations across the country: \"Eyewitness News...starts...NOW!\" (WEWS in Cleveland, the employer of Dorothy Fuldheim, would be one of these affiliates, utilizing Anderson's voice throughout the 1980s.) Anderson was also the announcer of \"America's Funniest Home Videos\" from 1989 to 1995, and did the voiceover for the previews of new episodes during the first three seasons of \"\" until he was replaced by Don LaFontaine. In addition to his work for ABC, Anderson also did commercial work for Ford, RCA and other clients.\n\nAnderson's signature was putting emphasis on a particular word. Examples included his enunciation of \"Love\" when saying \"The Love Boat\", and \"The Man... The Machine... \"Street Hawk\"!\" from the 1985 motorcycle action series. Anderson told the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" that his goal as an announcer was to \"try to create a mood. I have to concentrate on each word, on each syllable. I have to bring something special to every sentence I say. If I don't do that, they might as well just get some announcer out of the booth to read it. I want people to hear me talk about a show and then to say, 'Hey, this is going to be great. I want to watch this.'\"\n\nAnderson also lent his narration voice to animated television series. He narrated the opening intros to \"Jayce and the Wheeled Warriors\" and \"The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3\" (all for DIC Entertainment) and narrated the first two television shorts of \"The Powerpuff Girls\" as part of \"The What-a-Cartoon! Show\" until his death in 1997 where the role was taken over by Tom Kenny.\n\nDespite being a daily presence on American television, Anderson lived in relative anonymity in Southern California. \"But that's all right,\" he said. \"If I'm out in public and I feel like being recognized, I just raise my voice and say... 'The Love Boat.'\"\n\nAnderson had ten children in total. He had five children with his first wife, Marguerite Hemmer, whom he divorced around the time he ended his \"Ghoulardi\" show and left Cleveland. The three older children relocated to live with him in Studio City, while the two youngest children lived in Rhode Island with their mother.\n\nAnderson married actress Edwina Gough soon after she arrived in California, a few weeks after he did so. With Edwina, he had three daughters and two sons, Steve Anderson, and filmmaker, Paul Thomas Anderson. They divorced in the mid-1990s. Ernie then married Bonnie Skolnick, who survived him for a very short time.\n\nA lifelong smoker, Anderson died of lung cancer in on February 6, 1997 and is buried in Hollywood Hills, Los Angeles. His son, director Paul Thomas Anderson, dedicated his 1997 film \"Boogie Nights\" to his memory. In addition, \"The Drew Carey Show\" episode \"See Drew Run\" was dedicated to his memory. His death was also mentioned on an episode of \"America's Funniest Home Videos\" that same year. And not only that, they used an old recording of Ernie announcing Bob's name for the February episodes in his memory.\n\nAmong others he influenced, Anderson influenced the film work of his son Paul Thomas Anderson and of the director Jim Jarmusch. In Paul Thomas Anderson's third film \"Magnolia\", Earl Partridge is dying of cancer like Ernie Anderson. Paul Thomas Anderson has also confirmed that the climactic scene of his film \"Boogie Nights\" involving fireworks was inspired by his father's use of fireworks on the \"Ghoulardi\" program. Jarmusch, who watched \"Ghoulardi\" as a child living in the Cleveland area, has stated that he was greatly influenced by the character's \"anti-hierarchical appreciation of culture\" and selection of \"weird\" background music.\n\nAnderson as \"Ghoulardi\" has also been cited as an early influence on many Cleveland and Akron-area musicians who formed influential rock and punk bands in the 1970s, including Devo, The Dead Boys, Pere Ubu, and The Cramps.\n\nMore than a decade after his death, radio stations could still license Anderson's voice for promotions. By paying a licensing fee, stations including New York City's WHTZ used Anderson's voice for positioning statements such as, \"If it's too loud, you're too old\" and \"Lock it in and rip the knob off!\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262649", "title": "Roger Chalk", "text": "Roger Chalk\n\nRoger George Chalk is the former mayor of the Tasmanian local government area of Waratah-Wynyard, and patron of the Wynyard Municipal Concert Band. He has been a Councillor on the Wynyard Council since 1976, and the Waratah-Wynyard Council since its establishment in 1993. He held the title of Mayor from 2000 to 2005, and has also served nine years as Warden, a similar position.\n\nChalk has been the president of the Municipal Association of Tasmania, and represented Tasmania at the Australian Local Government Association. In 1996 he was awarded membership of the Order of Australia for service to local government.\n"}
{"id": "2262660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262660", "title": "Otho-Corpus Gospels", "text": "Otho-Corpus Gospels\n\nThe Otho-Corpus Gospels is a badly damaged and fragmentary 8th century illuminated manuscript. It was part of the Cotton library and was mostly burnt in the 1731 fire at Ashburnham House. The manuscript now survives as charred fragments in the British Library (MS Cotton Otho C V). Thirty six pages of the manuscript were not in the Cotton collection and survived the fire. They are now in the library of Corpus Christi College, Cambridge (MS 197B).\n\nThe manuscript, before the fire, was a major insular Gospel Book with close ties to the Lindisfarne Gospels, the Book of Kells and the Durham Cathedral Library, MS A. II. 10., the Echternach Gospels, and other insular manuscripts, with both textual and decorative similarities. Although it is not known where or when this manuscript was made, the similarities to the manuscripts noted above make it likely that it was made in one of the monasteries in the network of monasteries founded by St. Columba.\n\nThe extant fragments show that the manuscript was decorated in much the same style as other Insular Gospel Books. The incipit pages of the Gospels had large decorated initials, which dominated the page similar to those in the Lindifarne Gospels, the Book of Durrow, the Book of Kells and other Insular Gospel Books. For example, folio 28 recto in the British Library contains the remnant of the incipit page to the Gospel of Mark. All that is still legible is a portion of the word \"Initium\". (In the Vulgate, Mark begins \"Initium evangelii Iesu Christi\".) The letters \"INI\" are formed into a large monogram decorated with red and yellow knotwork. This page was so damaged and shrunk by the fire that the vellum has become translucent and the text on the verso side is visible on the recto side.\n\nIn many of the insular gospels, such as the Lindisfarne Gospels, and the Book of Kells, each Gospel has an Evangelist portrait before the Gospel. In many other insular gospels, such as the Book of Durrow and the Echternach Gospels the portrait is replaced by a full page miniature of the Evangelist's symbol. Folio 27 recto (see illustration at right) in the British Library, which is one of the best preserved pages of this manuscript, contains the image of the lion of Mark. This page bears a remarkable stylistic similarity to the corresponding page in the Echternach Gospels, (see ) and gives a hint as to the quality of the manuscript before the fire.\n\nA copy of a page of the prefatory material for Mark was made in 1725 for the Earl of Oxford, and used by Thomas Astle for his book \"The Origin and Progress of Writing\", which was published in 1784. The letters at the top of the page were display capitals, which were used to begin major sections of text. Farther down the page there is a second set of capitals in a different style which are surrounded by a block of small red dots. At the bottom of the page the scribe of the copy included a \"sampler\" of letter forms found in the manuscript which was not found on the original page. Astle's manuscript containing the copy is also in the British Library (MS Stowe 1061, fol. 36r).\n"}
{"id": "2262661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262661", "title": "Lakemba", "text": "Lakemba\n\nLakemba is the name of two places, and the Sydney one was directly named after the Fijian one.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262672", "title": "For Richer or Poorer", "text": "For Richer or Poorer\n\nFor Richer or Poorer is a 1997 American comedy film directed by Bryan Spicer starring Tim Allen and Kirstie Alley as a New York socialite couple who decide to end their spoiled relationship. The supporting cast includes Jay O. Sanders, Michael Lerner, Wayne Knight, and Larry Miller.\n\nDespite featuring the presence of Allen and Alley, \"For Richer or Poorer\" gained negative reviews from critics and audiences alike. It was a box office failure, grossing $32.7 million worldwide.\n\nAfter ten years of marriage, New York City millionaire socialite couple Brad (Tim Allen) and Caroline Sexton (Kirstie Alley) are miserable and have decided to call it quits. Their marital problems come to a head earlier that evening when Brad turns their 10th anniversary party into a real estate development pitch for a theme park he calls \"The Holy Land\", modeled after Biblical lore. The pitch turns disastrous when one of the display's special effects catches a guest's (who happens to be a federal judge) dress on fire.\n\nAt the same time, Brad's accountant, Bob Lachman (Wayne Knight), is stealing the Sextons' millions through mismanagement and filing false tax returns. His money manipulation has caught the attention of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), and field agent Frank Hall (Miguel A. Núñez Jr.), demands to meet Bob and Brad the following morning to bring the obligations up to date and settle the missing $5,000,000.\n\nBob arrives at the office early the following morning with a file box (likely the incriminating paperwork that could land him in jail), but leaves before Brad arrives. Though he doesn't get out in time, he manages to finally evade Brad and Hall, who has just shown up. Bob made Brad his scapegoat, since all the tax returns that Bob committed fraud are in Brad's name.\n\nHearing a hint from Bob that the Sextons could be fleeing (Brad told him about the Sextons' impending divorce), Hall orders the freezing of all their assets. Brad is unable to access his money through an ATM and Caroline has her credit card destroyed at her table as she's having lunch with some friends. Brad is then informed that his accounts have been frozen, but the bank teller refuses to tell him why. At first, he thinks Caroline is responsible, until he gets Bob on the phone, who tells him that he himself is the cause of their newfound problems, as he's headed for the airport.\n\nGung-ho IRS Inspector Derek Lester (Larry Miller) joins Hall to serve the warrant and bring in the Sextons. As Brad exits the bank (trying to chase down his Jaguar XK8 being towed), Hall and Lester surround him at the Charging Bull on Wall Street. Brad takes out his new satellite phone to answer a call, but the trigger-happy Lester mistakes it for a gun and pulls out his own pistol, shooting it out of Brad's hand, much to Hall's chagrin.\n\nBrad flees on foot, steals a cab and happens to pick up Caroline. The Sextons get away from Hall and Lester and the NYPD (who apprehend the agents for reckless pursuit) and leave New York. They crash the cab into a muddy swamp and are forced to spend that night sleeping rough, covered in mud. The next day, they find themselves in Intercourse, Pennsylvania, a small Lancaster County-area community of Old Order Amish. Brad drops in on a conversation and after stealing some clothes, they masquerade as Jacob and Emma Yoder, a family's (also named Yoder) expected cousins from Missouri. Samuel and Levinia (Jay O. Sanders and Megan Cavanagh), along with their sons and daughters, make the pair at home.\n\nThe pair try to fit in, and while Brad manages to adjust well, the glamorous and spoiled prima donna Caroline, deprived of her cigarettes, fine clothes, makeup, and other creature comforts, throws various childlike tantrums when she and Brad are alone. This gets noticed by Levinia and Samuel, who chalk it up to the pair having marital difficulties. Brad decides to try and relate better to Caroline after a talk from Samuel about how each day, no matter how bleak, is a gift of life from God. Gradually, both learn to fit in through their own abilities. Brad with his knowledge of real estate values, helps Samuel's future son-in-law Henner (John Pyper-Ferguson) buy a plot of land, and Caroline's knowledge of fashion helps their conservative ordnung relax their colorless dress code.\n\nThe Sextons then rediscover why they fell in love in the first place, largely through their efforts of helping others rather than themselves. As Samuel and Levinia's daughter Rebecca (Carrie Preston) is exchanging vows with Henner, the ceremony is interrupted by police and a drenched Hall and Lester, who crashed into the stolen cab. The Sextons are exposed and hauled back to New York to face trial. Brad's attorney Phil Kleinmann (Michael Lerner) informs them that he found Bob in Zurich and had him extradited back to America. A resisting Bob is then hauled into the courtroom by uniformed officers to face the Sextons. Bob confesses, and while Brad thanks him for saving his (Brad's) and Caroline's marriage, he still punches him in retribution for his actions. Charges against the Sextons are dropped.\n\nBrad and Caroline return to the Yoders to make things right, but their pleas for forgiveness seem to fall on deaf ears. As they turn to leave, Samuel informs them that he and Levinia knew the whole time of the ruse. They said they put up with it, because it was planting season and they needed the extra help. Brad offers to give his watch as a present only to be told that the Amish cannot accept gifts, only trades. He then proceeds to trade the watch for Big John, a gargantuan Belgian horse that Brad (as Jacob) tamed largely by dumb luck and some corn. Brad also tells Sam not to \"open the back of the watch;\" the watch seems to have in it a risque picture, which amuses him. The movie ends with Brad and Caroline driving a 1954 Ford pickup with a horse trailer hauling Big John. It is then revealed that the Sextons traded their 1997 Jaguar for the truck. In the closing credits, Brad contemplates buying the pond, where they crashed the cab and Caroline reveals she is pregnant with the couple's first child.\n\n\n\"For Richer or Poorer\" was a box office flop, earning $32.7 million on an estimated budget of $35 million. Reviews of the film were mainly negative. It currently holds a 14% approval rating at Rotten Tomatoes based on 21 reviews (3 positive, 18 negative). Roger Ebert gave the film 2 out of 4 stars. Regarding the film and Tim Allen and Kirstie Alley's performances, he stated: \"I admired their sheer professionalism. The plot is a yawner... But they succeed somehow in bringing a certain charm to their scenes, and they never miss with a laugh line.\"\n\nAt the 1997 Stinkers Bad Movie Awards, Tim Allen and Kirstie Alley were nominated for Worst On-Screen Couple but lost to Jean-Claude van Damme and Dennis Rodman for \"Double Team\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2262675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262675", "title": "Shin-Kamigotō", "text": "Shin-Kamigotō\n\nThe town was established on August 1, 2004 after the merger of the towns of Arikawa, Kamigotō, Narao, Shin-Uonome and Wakamatsu, all from Minami-Matsuura District. It occupies the two main islands of Nakadōri and Wakamatsu, which are connected by Wakamatsu Oohashi (\"Wakamatsu Great Bridge\") via the small, unpopulated islet of Kaminakajima (上中島), as well as several smaller islands, including the populated islands of Arifuku, Hinoshima, Ryōzegaura, Kashiragashima, and Kirinoko. Wakamatsu Island is connected at its northwestern extremity to Ryōzegaura Island by the Ryōzegaura Bridge, and Ryōzegaura Island is further linked with the islands of Arifuku and Hinoshima by breakwaters that allow traffic of automobiles. Kashiragashima Oohashi connects the eastern end of the main island of Nakadōri with Kashiragashima, on which the famous Kashiragashima Church and the defunct Kamigotō Airport are located.\n\nThe islands that comprise the territory of Shin-Kamigotō Town also form the northeastern half of the Gotō Islands archipelago, which is the origin of the name Kamigotō (literally, \"Upper Five Islands\"), in which \"Gotō\" (\"Five Islands\") is the name of the entire archipelago, and \"Kami-\" (\"Upper\") refers to the fact that this half of the archipelago is located closer to the Japanese capital relative to the southwestern half. The prefix \"Shin-\" (新) at the beginning of the town's name means \"new,\" so its full name may be translated literally to English as \"New Upper Five Islands Town,\" though the name may be interpreted to refer to the town as a new and expanded version of the former Kamigotō Town, which was centered on the port of Aokata on the western side of the middle of Nakadōri Island.\n\nAs of March 31, 2017, the town has an estimated population of 19,866 and a density of 93 persons per km. The total area is 213.98 km.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262677", "title": "California Courts of Appeal", "text": "California Courts of Appeal\n\nThe California Courts of Appeal are the state intermediate appellate courts in the U.S. state of California. The state is geographically divided along county lines into six appellate districts. The Courts of Appeal form the largest state-level intermediate appellate court system in the United States, with 106 justices.\n\nThe decisions of the Courts of Appeal are binding on the California superior courts, and both the Courts of Appeal and the superior courts are bound by the decisions of the Supreme Court of California. Notably, all published California appellate decisions are binding on all trial courts. This is distinct from the practice in the federal courts and in other state court systems in which trial courts are bound only by the appellate decisions from the particular circuit in which it sits, as well as the Supreme Court of the United States or the state supreme court. In contrast, \"there is no horizontal stare decisis in the California Court of Appeal\"; Court of Appeal decisions are not binding between divisions or even between panels of the same division. \n\nThus, all superior courts (and hence all litigants) are bound by the decision of a Court of Appeal if it is the only published California precedent that articulates a point of law relevant to a particular set of facts, even if the superior court would have decided differently if writing on a fresh slate. However, another Court of Appeal division or district may rule differently on that point of law after a litigant seeks relief from an adverse trial court ruling that faithfully applied existing precedent. In that instance, all superior courts are free to pick and choose which precedent they wish to follow until the state supreme court settles the issue for the entire state, although a superior court confronted with such a conflict will normally follow the view of its own Court of Appeal. \n\nIt is customary in federal courts and other state courts to indicate in case citations the particular circuit or district of an intermediate appellate court that issued the decision cited. But because the decisions of all six California appellate districts are equally binding upon all trial courts, district numbers are traditionally omitted in California citation style unless an actual interdistrict conflict is at issue.\n\nAll California appellate courts are required by the California Constitution to decide criminal cases in writing with reasons stated (meaning that even in criminal appeals where the defendant's own lawyer has tacitly conceded that the appeal has no merit, the appellate decision \"must\" summarize the facts and law of the case and review possible issues independently before concluding that the appeal is without merit). Such procedure is not mandated for civil cases, but for certain types of civil cases where a liberty interest is implicated, the Courts of Appeal may, but are not required to, follow a similar procedure. Most Court of Appeal opinions are not published and have no precedential value; the opinions that are published are included in the official reporter, \"California Appellate Reports\". \n\nIn addition, West Publishing traditionally included Court of Appeal opinions in its unofficial reporter, the \"Pacific Reporter\". In 1959, West began publishing both Supreme Court and Court of Appeal opinions in \"West's California Reporter\", and no longer included Court of Appeal opinions in the \"Pacific Reporter\".\n\nDue to their huge caseloads and volume of output, the Courts of Appeal in turn see the largest number of decisions appealed to the state supreme court and the Supreme Court of the United States. A few famous U.S. Supreme Court cases, such as \"Burnham v. Superior Court of California\", came to the high court on writ of certiorari to one of the Courts of Appeal after the state supreme court had denied review. Many Court of Appeal opinions have become nationally prominent in their own right, such as the 1959 opinion that carved out the first judge-made exception to the at-will employment doctrine, the 1980 opinion that authorized a cause of action for wrongful life, and the 1984 opinion that created the right to Cumis counsel.\n\nThe California Constitution originally made the Supreme Court the only appellate court for the whole state. As the state's population skyrocketed during the 19th century, the Supreme Court was expanded from three to seven justices, and then the Court began hearing the majority of appeals in three-justice panels. The Court became so overloaded that it frequently issued summary dispositions in minor cases, meaning that it was merely saying \"affirmed\" or \"reversed\" without saying why. The state's second Constitution, enacted in 1879, halted that practice by expressly requiring the Court to issue every dispositive decision in writing \"with reasons stated.\" In 1889, the Legislature authorized the Supreme Court to appoint five commissioners to help with its work.\n\nDespite implementing all these measures, the Supreme Court was no longer able to keep up with the state's rapidly growing appellate caseload by the end of the 19th century. Accordingly, in 1903, the Legislature proposed a constitutional amendment to create what were then called the District Courts of Appeal. On November 8, 1904, the electorate adopted the amendment.\n\nThe District Courts of Appeal originally consisted of three appellate districts, headquartered in San Francisco, Los Angeles, and Sacramento, with three justices each. These first nine justices were appointed by the Governor. Each district was assigned an ordinal number (i.e., first, second, and third).\n\nIn 1966, the word \"District\" was dropped from the official names of the Courts of Appeal by another constitutional amendment which extensively revised the sections governing the state judiciary. This left Florida as the sole state in the United States with \"District Courts of Appeal.\" Since then, each of the Courts of Appeal has been named officially as \"the Court of Appeal of the State of California\" for a particular numbered appellate district.\n\nOriginally, after appointment by the Governor incumbents ran in potentially contested head-to-head elections. However, after a particularly bitter contest in 1932, the California Constitution was amended to provide for the present retention election system, where the voters are given the choice to retain or reject a candidate. To date no incumbent has been denied retention. \n\nTo fill a vacant position, the Governor must first submit a candidate's name to the Commission on Judicial Nominees Evaluation of the State Bar of California, which prepares and returns a thorough confidential evaluation of the candidate. Next, the Governor officially nominates the candidate, who must then be evaluated by the Commission on Judicial Appointments, which consists of the Chief Justice of California, the Attorney General of California, and a senior presiding justice of the Court of Appeal. The Commission holds a public hearing and if satisfied with the nominee's qualifications, confirms the nomination, which enables the nominee to be sworn in and begin serving immediately.\n\nAll nominees must have been members of the State Bar of California for at least 10 years preceding their nomination. Typical nominees include experienced attorneys in private practice, current superior court judges, and current federal district judges. Some nominees have taught as adjunct professors or lecturers in law schools, but tenured professors are extremely rare. Another path to the Courts of Appeal is to work for the Governor, especially as appointments secretary, cabinet secretary, or legal affairs secretary. \n\nTerms of both Court of Appeal and Supreme Court justices are 12 years. However, if a nominee is confirmed to an existing seat partway through a term, the nominee can only serve the remaining period of the term before standing for election. All California appellate justices must undergo retention elections every 12 years at the same time as the general gubernatorial election, in which the sole question is whether to retain the justice for another 12 years. If a majority votes \"no,\" the seat becomes vacant and may be filled by the Governor. While Supreme Court justices are voted on by the entire state, Court of Appeal justices are voted on only by the residents of their districts.\n\nLike all other California judges, Court of Appeal justices are bound by the California Code of Judicial Conduct and can be removed prior to the expiration of their terms by the Commission on Judicial Performance. In order to protect judicial independence (and because the losing party to a lawsuit will almost always regard the judge who ruled against them to be incompetent or biased), the CJP generally only initiates removal proceedings in cases of severe or extensive judicial misconduct.\n\nWhen there is a vacancy on the Supreme Court of California, or if a Supreme Court justice recuses him or herself from a case, a Court of Appeal justice is temporarily assigned to hear each Supreme Court case requiring such assignment. When there are vacancies on the Court of Appeal, the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court temporarily assigns a judge from the superior court to sit as a Court of Appeal justice.\n\nSome of the appellate districts (First and Second) are divided into divisions that have four appellate justices, who are randomly selected to form three-justice panels for each appellate case, and whose workloads are divided semi-randomly to ensure even division of work. Some of the appellate districts (Third, Fifth, and Sixth) are not divided into divisions; for each appellate case, three-justice panels are semi-randomly drawn, again to ensure even division of work. The Fourth District is unique in that it is divided into three geographically-based divisions that are administratively separate, each of which works much like the Third, Fifth, and Sixth Districts. When the presiding justice of a district or division is part of the three-justice panel, he/she serves as the presiding justice on the case. When the presiding justice is not part of the three-justice panel, the senior justice of the three-justice panel serves as the acting presiding justice on the case.\n\nThe First, Second, and Third Districts each have one big courtroom at their main courthouses which they share with the Supreme Court of California. Therefore, on a typical weekday, the courtrooms of those districts will have three Court of Appeal justices seated at an extra-wide bench large enough to accommodate the seven justices of the Supreme Court.\n\nUnlike the federal courts of appeals, the state Courts of Appeal have no provision allowing rehearing of cases \"en banc\" by all justices of a district (or a division in the case of the Fourth District). If a conflict becomes evident between published opinions of different panels or divisions of the same district, and the newer opinion creating the conflict is not immediately appealed to the Supreme Court of California or depublished by that court, the conflict will simply persist until the high court reaches the issue in a future case.\n\nEach court of appeal is led by an administrative presiding justice (APJ). In courts of appeal with divisions, the Chief Justice of California may designate the presiding justice of one division as the APJ, while in courts of appeal without divisions, the presiding justice is also the APJ. As the title implies, the APJ is responsible for managing the court's personnel, operations, caseload, budget, and facilities.\n\nThe California Court of Appeal for the First District is one of the first three appellate districts created in 1904 and is located in San Francisco. Its jurisdiction is over the following counties: Alameda, Contra Costa, Del Norte, Humboldt, Lake, Marin, Mendocino, Napa, San Francisco, San Mateo, Solano, and Sonoma. It is divided into five non-geographical divisions with four justices each:\n\nDivision One:\n\nDivision Two:\n\nDivision Three:\n\nDivision Four:\n\nDivision Five:\n\nThe California Court of Appeal for the Second District is one of the first three appellate districts created in 1904 and has its main courthouse in Los Angeles and the secondary courthouse, hosting Division Six, in Ventura. Division Six handles appeals from San Luis Obispo, Santa Barbara, and Ventura Counties, while Divisions One through Five, Seven, and Eight handle appeals from Los Angeles County. Each division has four justices.\n\nDivision One:\n\nDivision Two:\n\nDivision Three:\n\nDivision Four:\n\nDivision Five:\n\nDivision Six:\n\nDivision Seven:\n\nDivision Eight:\n\nThe California Court of Appeal for the Third District is one of the first three appellate districts created in 1904 and is located in Sacramento. Its jurisdiction is over the following counties: Alpine, Amador, Butte, Calaveras, Colusa, El Dorado, Glenn, Lassen, Modoc, Mono, Nevada, Placer, Plumas, Sacramento, San Joaquin, Shasta, Sierra, Siskiyou, Sutter, Tehama, Trinity, Yolo, and Yuba. It has 11 justices and is not divided into divisions.\n\nJustices:\n\nThe California Court of Appeal for the Fourth District is unique in that it is divided into three geographical divisions that are administratively separate, which even have different case number systems, and yet remain referred to as a single district.\n\nThe Division One courthouse is located in San Diego. It handles appeals from Imperial and San Diego Counties. It has 10 justices.\n\nJustices:\n\nThe Division Two courthouse is located in Riverside. It handles appeals from Inyo, Riverside, and San Bernardino Counties. It currently has eight justices.\n\nJustices:\n\nThe Division Three courthouse is located in Santa Ana. It handles appeals from Orange County. It has eight justices.\n\nJustices:\n\nThe Fourth District was formed by a division of the Second District pursuant to legislation that went into effect on June 5, 1929. The first decision made by the Fourth District was on October 16, 1929, in the case of \"Mills v. Mills\" (1929) 101 Cal.App. 248 [281 P. 707].\n\nOriginally, appeals from all of Southern California (including the San Joaquin Valley) were heard by the state supreme court sitting in Los Angeles, and then the Second District took over most of that caseload when it was created in 1904. Lawyers from the rest of Southern California outside of Los Angeles County grew tired of having to travel hundreds of miles to and from Los Angeles just to argue appeals. They lobbied for the creation of a Fourth District that would sit at locations closer to them. Three state senators from San Diego, Fresno and San Bernardino orchestrated the creation of the Fourth District in 1929. As a compromise, the court was created as a \"circuit-riding\" court that would sit each year in all three of those cities: Fresno (January-April), San Diego (May-August), and San Bernardino (September-December).\n\nIn 1961, the Fifth District, with headquarters in Fresno, was created to hear appeals from San Joaquin Valley counties. The Fourth District's remaining territory was still enormous (San Bernardino County is the single largest county in the contiguous United States by area); in 1965, the Fourth District split itself into Division One, sitting permanently in San Diego, and Division Two, sitting permanently in San Bernardino (now Riverside), meaning it would no longer be a circuit-riding court. The two divisions shared jurisdiction over Orange County until the creation of Division Three in 1982.\n\nThe California Court of Appeal for the Fifth District is located in Fresno. Its jurisdiction covers the following counties: Fresno, Kern, Kings, Madera, Mariposa, Merced, Stanislaus, Tulare, and Tuolumne. It currently has 10 justices.\n\nJustices:\n\nThe Fifth District was formed by a division of the Fourth District pursuant to legislation enacted in 1961 (Stats.1961, c. 845, p. 2128, § 7). The first decision made by the Fifth District was on November 21, 1961, in the case of \"Wheat v. Morse\" (1961) 17 Cal.Rptr. 226 [197 Cal.App.2d 203].\n\nThe California Court of Appeal for the Sixth District is located in the Comerica Bank building in San Jose. Its jurisdiction covers Monterey, San Benito, Santa Clara, and Santa Cruz Counties. It has seven justices.\n\nJustices:\n\nThe Sixth District was formed by a division of the First District pursuant to legislation enacted in 1981 (Stats.1981, c. 959, p. 3645, § 5). The first decision made by the Sixth District was on December 13, 1984, in the case of \"People v. Dickens\" (1984) 163 Cal.App.3d 377 [208 Cal.Rptr. 751].\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262678", "title": "Samoa national rugby league team", "text": "Samoa national rugby league team\n\nThe Samoa national rugby league team represents Samoa in rugby league football and has been participating in international competition since 1986. Known as Western Samoa prior to 1997, the team is administered by Rugby League Samoa and are nicknamed Toa Samoa (English: \"Samoan Warriors\").\n\nWestern Samoa has participated in the Pacific Cup (1986–), World Sevens (1994, 1995, 2003), Super League World Nines (1996, 1997), World Cup (since 1995) and Pacific Rim (2004) competitions. Since 1998 the team has been known as Samoa.\n\nWestern Samoa made their debut in the 1986 Pacific Cup. Joe Raymond coached this side to a final where they went down to a strong NZ Maori side.Joe Raymond went on to coach them again in 1988 and would return again to coach them 10 years later in 1998 in a one off game against a Samoan team of Samoan resident players at Carlaw park.\n\nWilliam John \"Swanny\" Stowers and his wife Lyndsay Stowers operated Samoa Rugby League out of their North Shore home in Auckland and from the Richmond Rugby League Club house where Lyndsay ran the canteen. This resilient couple were known to have put a mortgage on their home to assist with funding the thirty (30) men representing Samoa in the Pacific Cup held in Tonga, 1990. This commitment lead to a historical win over the Maori team for the first time and won the 1990 Pacific Cup. Coached by the Richmond Bulldogs Head Coach, Steve Kaiser, the Western Samoan team put Samoan rugby league on the map.\n\nSamoa then won the 1992 Pacific Cup over Tonga in an action filled thriller that went into two (2) overtimes and sent the NZ Rugby League and Polynesian rugby league public into a frenzy. The 1992 Tournament showcased all of NZ Rugby league talent and Australian Rugby league scouts were already booked to witness the 1994 Pacific Cup held in Fiji.\n\nIn 1993 Western Samoa were invited to the International Coca-Cola Sevens in Sydney. With Auckland based Samoan players such as Mark Elia, Tony Tuimavave, Tony Tatupu, Faausu Afoa and Des Maea followed by a group of up and coming players such as Matthew TuiSamoa, Lionel Perera, Aleki Maea, Paki Tuimavave, Joe Vagana, Sefo Fuimaono and Peter Lima, the team beat the Canberra Raiders and the Great Britain International team. Coached by the Richmond Bulldogs' Head Coach Steve Kaiser, this team gave Samoa the status to create the strong foundation Western Samoa Rugby League needed to move forward. Below this strong foundation however was the strength and commitment of two people: Swanny and Lyndsay Stowers. These two held together the concept of Samoa Rugby League and without their dream, Samoa RL will not be where it is today.\n\nSteve Kaiser in his sixth year as the Samoan Coach had an array of NZ based quality players for the 1994 Pacific Cup with the likes of Se'e Solomona, Tony Tatupu, the Tuimavave brothers Paki and Tony plus the loyal players of Mike Setefano, Matthew TuiSamoa, Alex Tupou and Mark Faumuina. Henry Suluvale and Rudy David led the contingent of first class players from Canterbury however this arsenal were well contained by the Tongan stars Jim Dymmic, John Hopoate and Albert Fulivae.\n\nThe 1995 Samoan team had the benefit of ex-All Blacks John Schuster and Va'aiga Tuigamala in their backline. When rugby union went openly professional players such as Apollo Perelini and Fereti Tuilagi left rugby league to return to the 15-man game.\n\nSamoa lost the Pacific Cup in 1996.\n\nThe 1998 Pacific Cup team saw a new and old talent. Joe Raymond, one of the first Samoan Rugby League Rep coaches returned after coaching Tonga and the NZ Maori, the late Eddie Poching managed the team and the introduction of Francis Meli to Samoan Rugby League and Junior Papalii a loyal American Samoan Representative. Pati Tuimavave from the 1992 squad and Matthew TuiSamoa, the only survivor from 1990 Pacific Cup champion team returned. Samoa battled Tonga for the 1998 Pacific Cup again at Carlaw park and again Samoa regained the Pacific Champions Title.\n\nThe Pacific Cup was taken to Australia's Gold Coast in 2000 where Auckland coach John Ackland took over the reins. Ackland added another dimension to Samoa Rugby League in selecting rising stars Itikeri Samani a Canberra and Goulburn Stockmen Junior who previously represented American Samoa and Wayne McDade from the New Zealand Warriors while bringing back Matthew TuiSamoa into the Pacific Cup arena.\n\nSamoa took on Ireland, Scotland, and the Aotearoa Māori in the 2000 Rugby League World Cup pool stages. They would lose to 'the Irish' in their opening game, but they'd beat NZ Maori, and Scotland in their next two games, sealing a place in the knock-out stages. They would take on Australia in the quarter-final. Unfortunately, they ended their tournament with a thrashing 66–10 defeat (their biggest defeat up to date), sealing an end to a respectable World Cup Campaign.\n\nSamoa played in the Pacific Pool of the 2008 Rugby League World Cup Qualifiers. They beat the Cook Islands and Fiji, but lost to Tonga. On a points difference, Samoa came in third and had to play USA in the Repecharge Semi Final. Samoa won this match 42–10 and then played Lebanon on 14 November 2007 in the Repecharge Final to see who would take the 10th and final World Cup place. Samoa came out eventual winners of the 10th and final 2008 Rugby League World Cup place beating Lebanon 38–16 at the Chris Moyles Stadium, Featherstone.\n\nFor the 2008 Rugby League World Cup tournament Samoa's main jersey sponsor was the Samoa International Finance Authority.\n\nSamoa took on Tonga and Ireland in the Tournament's pool stages. They beat their pacific rivals in a traditional tight pacific match-up, but they then lost to 'the Irish' by 34–16. This big losing margin, sent the Samoans into battle against the French in the Tournament's 9th place play-off. Samoa easily won, winning 42–10 and capping off an undesirable World Cup Tournament.\n\nIn April 2013, Samoa took on Tonga in the '2013 Pacific Rugby League Test' at Penrith Stadium. The International was created as a World Cup warm-up match. Tonga targeted Samoa's weak defence, and it paid off, thrashing the Toa Samoans by 36–4.\n\nSamoa automatically qualified for the 2013 Rugby League World Cup after participating in the 2008 tournament. They took on \nNew Zealand, Papua New Guinea and France in the pool stage. In their first match they took on 'the Kiwis'. New Zealand were outright favourites, but Samoa never gave up in the match. Down 36–4 in the second half, Samoa gained unexpected momentum as they ran in scoring 5 consecutive tries, leaving them trail 36–24 with 15 minutes to go. In the end NZ would avoid a shocking upset, by scoring a try late to seal the match. Samoa then thrashed 'the Kumuls', and then they beat 'the French' to secure a spot in the Knock-out stage of the Tournament. Samoa would lose their quarter-final against Pacific rivals Fiji, and in doing so, ending their successful 2013 World Cup campaign.\n\nIn May 2014, Samoa took on Fiji in the '2014 Pacific Rugby League Test' at Penrith Stadium. The International was created as a qualifier for the final 2014 Four Nations spot. It was also a chance for the Four Nations team (winner of this international) to warm-up before the event kicked off later in the year. Samoa qualified for the 2014 Four Nations with a 32–16 win over their fierce rivals.\n\nIn the Four Nations, Samoa was the fourth nation and the underdogs against rugby league's three big heavyweight nations England, New Zealand and Australia. But they proved that they were anything but underdogs, losing to England by six points in a sea-sawing battle, and they were within four minutes of creating rugby league history by beating New Zealand. By the final round, Samoa still had a chance to qualify for the final, making this Four Nations the toughest ever. This Samoan performance added credential to the rugby league game showing that the game is not all about the big three. This performance has now seen a petition begin to see Samoa v New Zealand test matches during Australia's State of Origin series.\n\nIn May 2015, Samoa took on Tonga in the 2015 Polynesian Cup at Cbus Super Stadium. The International was part of a triple header which also included the Melanesian Cup, between Papua New Guinea and Fiji, and the Junior Kangaroos against the Junior Kiwis. The game was an absolute thriller with the lead alternating between the teams and the biggest margin throughout the match was only 6 points. However, there was always going to be one winner in the see-saw affair and it was Samoa who upended Tonga to win the Polynesian Cup by 18–16.\n\nIn May 2016, Samoa took on Tonga in the 2016 Polynesian Cup at Pirtek Stadium. The International was part of a triple header which also included the Melanesian Cup, between Papua New Guinea and Fiji, and the Junior Kangaroos against the Junior Kiwis. The traditional pacific rivalry between these two continued as they always produced big hits, meters, and try-saving tackles when needed. However this year's test-match saw way more errors than last year's but Samoa prevailed in the end, scoring 18 points again in the 12-point victory over their Pacific 'War rivals'.\n\nSamoa competed in The 2017 Rugby League World Cup and were placed in a group containing New Zealand, Tonga and Scotland. After defeats in the first two games against New Zealand and Tonga, Samoa drew 14–14 with Scotland in Cairns and qualified for the quarter finals of the tournament despite not winning a match. Samoa played against defending champions Australia and were defeated 46–0 in Darwin. In the aftermath of their elimination, former Samoan players including Reni Maitua publicly blasted the team and said that there needs to be pride restored to the Samoan jumper. Ex rugby league player Willie Mason claimed that the players had no respect for the coach Matt Parish and that they were up until 4AM in the morning doing whatever they felt like.\n\nSamoa automatically qualified for the 2021 Rugby League World Cup having reached the quarter finals of the previous Rugby League World Cup. The 2021 tournament will take place in England.\n\nThe following tournaments is a list of notable international competitions that Samoa has been competing in since their existence in 1986.\n\n\"A red box around the year indicates tournaments played within Samoa\"\n\nThe Samoa national team squad for the 2019 Oceania Cup game against Papua New Guinea.\n\nBelow is the head to head record for the Samoa as of 10 May 2020.\n\n<section begin=PNGvWSM />\n\n\n\n\nSamoa's kit consists of a blue jersey with usually a white V on the chest, paired with blue shorts and socks.\n\nSince 2013, Samoa's kits are currently supplied by FI-TA. Former suppliers were SAS (2006–2013), SportM (1995–2000), Zeus (1992–1995) and Adidas (1990–1992).\n\nThe current sponsors are Investsamoa.ws and Vailima.\nFormer sponsors were DB Bitter (1992–1996), Yazaki (Rugby League World Cup 2000) and SIFA.WS (2008–2015).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262680", "title": "Sign of contradiction", "text": "Sign of contradiction\n\nA sign of contradiction, in Catholic theology, is someone who, upon manifesting holiness, is subject to extreme opposition. The term is from the biblical phrase \"sign that is spoken against\", found in and in , which refer to Jesus Christ and the early Christians. Contradiction comes from the Latin \"contra\", \"against\" and \"dicere\", \"to speak\".\n\nAccording to Catholic tradition, a sign of contradiction points to the presence of Christ or the presence of the divine due to the union of that person or reality with God. In his book, \"Sign of Contradiction\", John Paul II says that \"sign of contradiction\" might be \"a distinctive definition of Christ and of his Church.\"\n\n Luke 2:34 refers to Jesus Christ while he is being presented in the temple by his parents. The words were spoken by Simeon to Mary, the mother of Jesus Christ, as a prophecy regarding her child and herself.\n\n\"Behold this child is set for the fall and rising of many in Israel, and for a \"sign that is spoken against\" (and a sword will pierce through your own soul also), that thought of many hearts may be revealed.\" (Italics added; Douay Rheims Bible translates the phrase as \"sign that will be contradicted.\")\n\nThe interpretation of the Navarre Bible, a Catholic bible commentary, is the following:\n\n\"Jesus came to bring salvation to all men, yet he will be sign of contradiction \"because some people will obstinately reject him -- for this reason he will be their ruin. But for those who accept him with faith Jesus will be their salvation\", freeing them from sin in this life and raising them up to eternal life.\"\n\nThe commentary also says that Mary will be intimately linked with her Son's work of salvation. The sword indicates that Mary will have a share in her son's sufferings. The last words of the prophecy link up with verse 34: uprightness or perversity will be demonstrated by whether one accepts or rejects Christ.\n\nThere are \"three elements\" then involved in a sign of contradiction, according to Catholic theology: (1) An attack on Christ or people who are said to be \"united\" with Christ. From this attack, ensues a double-movement: (2) the downfall of those who reject Christ, and (3) the rise of those who accept him.\n\nThis double-movement is connected with the division Jesus Christ referred to in , an external division among peoples who either follow him or not, but an internal peace for those who follow him.\n\n\"Do you think that I have come to give peace on earth? No, I tell you, but rather division; for henceforth in one house there will be five divided, three against two and two against three; they will be divided, father against son and son against father, mother against daughter and daughter against her mother, mother-in-law against her daughter-in-law and daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law.\"\n\nJesus Christ was spoken against during his life: the Gospels claim that Pharisees and other critics said that he was allied with Beelzebub, that he was a drunkard and a glutton, (based upon his participation at banquets and feasts), that he was a blasphemer who made himself equal to God. According to Catholic theologians, these charges led to his torture and execution.\n\nThroughout history, Jesus of Nazareth was also spoken against: Docetists, considered by the Catholic Church to be the first heretics, said that his body was not true but only an appearance. Arians said he was not God. Nestorius, the Patriarch of Constantinople, said Jesus' mother Mary was not the Mother of God, but only the mother of the human being called Jesus. Thus, Nestorius also denied that it is God the Son who became man.\n\nIn the 19th century, some questioned the historicity of Jesus, and in contemporary times, novels such as \"The Da Vinci Code\" and films such as \"The Last Temptation of Christ\" have portrayed him as romantically linked with Mary Magdalene.\n\nAccording to the Catholic view, the double-movement that ensued after the attack on Christ is the following: While many of Christ's enemies have fallen (the Roman authorities and their empire fell in 476, the authorities in the Sanhedrin during his time died, their temple in Jerusalem destroyed in 70 AD by Titus), Jesus Christ resurrected from the dead and his religion became the largest religion in the world and the Catholic Church its biggest representation.\n\nCatholic theologians also say that while the devil seemed to have been able to put the Messiah to death, his death turned the tables around and became the very instrument of Christ's victory over evil, death and the devil. His death showed the infinite love of God towards mankind (\"Greater love no man has than he who lays down his life for his friend\"), thus drawing men back to God. With his death he opened an infinite source of divine life (grace) through the seven sacraments: Baptism, Confirmation, Marriage, Holy Orders, Anointing of the Sick, Confession and the Eucharist, where Jesus Christ himself, both perfect God and perfect man, is present in person.\n\nCatholic theologians also say that the Jesus Christ in the Eucharist is another sign of contradiction. Catholics believe that during the Last Supper, when Christ said, \"This is my body,\" he was referring to the bread that he was holding, and that the bread became his Body in substance and in essence, retaining the \"accidental\" appearance of bread. Catholics call this \"transubstantiation\" from the Latin \"trans\", \"to change, to become, to transfer\" and \"substantia\", \"substance, that which stands (\"stans\") underneath (\"sub\")\". Substance refers to the core of each entity, e.g. the substance of a man is the same when he is a little baby and when he becomes an old man, even if the \"appearances\" are much different. In the case of transubstantiation, it is the substance that changed (from real bread to Jesus Christ) while the appearances (white, crunchy and smelling like bread) remained the same.\nAccording to the Catholic Encyclopedia, for ten centuries this doctrine was unopposed, until Berengarius of Tours who taught in 1047 that \"the body and blood of Christ are really present in the Holy Eucharist; but this presence is an intellectual or spiritual presence. The substance of the bread and the substance of the wine remain unchanged.\" Controversy was opened by the Reformation in the 16th century. Martin Luther taught that Christ was truly present in the Eucharist, with his doctrine being called the sacramental union. He was diametrically opposed by Zwingli who said the Eucharist is a symbolic memorial of Christ's redemptive death. John Calvin's view lay somewhere in between: instead of the substantial presence or the merely symbolic presence, he saw the presence as \"dynamic\": according to this view, at the moment of reception, the efficacy of Christ's Body and Blood is communicated from heaven to the souls of the predestined and spiritually nourishes them. \n\nTowards the end of the 20th century, some Catholic priests put forth the doctrine of \"trans-signification\": a change of meaning on the part of those receiving it. The bread does not change, it is the meaning for the recipient that changes. \"Trans-signification\" is not in accordance with Catholic doctrine.\n\nThe opposition to transubstantiation, a doctrine considered by many to be holy, makes the Eucharist a sign of contradiction according to Catholic doctrine.\n\nAccording to Catholic theologians, the double-movement is shown in (1) the breakup of the Protestants into thousands of denominations, with different views on the Eucharist, which for Catholic doctrine is the source of Church unity. According to the \"World Christian Encyclopedia\" (2001) by David B. Barrett, et al., there are \"over 33,000 denominations in 238 countries.\" (including the rites of Catholicism) Every year there is a net increase of around 270 to 300 denominations, (2) the increase in devotion to the Eucharist all over the Catholic world.\n\nEdith Stein, called the Patron of Europe by John Paul II, once taught on the day of the Feast of the Exaltation of the Holy Cross, September 14, 1939:\n\nThe practice of mortification, a way of following Christ's advice to his disciples to \"renounce yourself, take up your cross, and follow me\" is also usually attacked as sado-masochism, a search for pleasure through pain. Catholics believe, on the other hand, that it is through suffering and pain that Christians \"complete in themselves the afflictions of Christ\" as St. Paul preached. This means Christians see themselves as forming the \"one mystical person\" with Christ, and therefore should help people by loving and obeying God by undergoing pains and sufferings, thus making up for the sins of men.\n\nViews on the cross creates a division: \"The division between those whose first love is God, and those whose first love is self - might also be expressed as the division between those who accept the place of the Cross in the following of Christ, and those who reject all sacrifice except it be for personal gain.\" \n\nSt. Paul said \"many live as enemies of the cross of Christ.\" (Philippians 3:18) He preached: \"The message of the cross is complete absurdity to those who are headed for ruin, but to those of us who are on the way to salvation it is the power of God... The Jews demand signs (miracles), and the Greeks wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified - to the Jews a stumbling block and to the Gentiles foolishness; but to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God and the wisdom of God\" (1 Corinthians 1:18,22).\n\nThe second biblical phrase is from Acts 28:22, quoting a Jew in Rome with whom Paul was talking:\n\nAccording to Catholic theologians and ecclesiologists like Charles Journet and Kenneth D. Whitehead in \"One, Holy, Catholic, and Apostolic: The Early Church was the Catholic Church\", the sect being referred to here by the Jews is the early church of Christians.\n\nThe Church and the early Christians, according to these Catholic theologians, are one with Jesus Christ. As an example, they say that when Paul was persecuting the early Church, Jesus Christ appeared to him and said: Why do you persecute me?\n\nThe passage from the Acts of the Apostles is related to :\n\nThis passage shows the double-movement depending on the two possible attitudes towards Christ: whoever is united to Christ in holiness will rise and bear fruit, while those who are disunited to Christ will fall down and wither.\n\nThe early Christians, regarded as forming a pernicious sect by several authorities of the Roman Empire, are also seen as a sign of contradiction. Early Christians were called cannibals (for reputedly eating the \"body of Christ\"), they were called atheists (for not following the established Roman religion), they were also accused of burning Rome during the time of the Emperor Nero, and thus were tortured and burned as torches. Emperors after Nero also saw them as a threat to the unity of the Empire.\n\nTertullian, an early Christian apologist, said that the persecution of the first Christians helped in propagating Christianity: \"The blood of martyrs is the seed of Christians.\" According to Catholic historians like Philip Hughes and Warren Carrol, when the Empire fell in 476 AD, Christianity continued to prosper and to spread throughout Europe and beyond. These historians say that it was the Christian monks who eventually tried to keep intact the ancient culture in their monasteries.\n\nMany Catholic Church Fathers are also seen by theologians as signs of contradiction. A specific example is St. Athanasius or Athanasius of Alexandria, who defended the divinity of Christ, the basic reason behind the Christian religion, according to Patrologist Johannes Quasten.\n\nJ. Quasten says that Athanasius was the deacon and secretary to bishop Alexander of Alexandria. As such he attended the Council of Nicea in 325 where he fought for the defeat of Arianism and acceptance of the divinity of Jesus. Against Arius who said that Jesus Christ was not eternal and not God but a mere creature, Athanasius formulated the doctrine that Jesus Christ is \"consubstantial\" with the Father, a doctrine now known as \"homoousios.\"\n\nAthanasius later became the Patriarch of Alexandria, Egypt in 328. When the Arians gained political power, Athanasius was exiled five to seven times, but was restored to authority each time. This gave rise to the expression \"Athanasius contra mundum\" or \"Athanasius against the world.\"\n\nWhile Arius, his opponent, died in 336, Athanasius died in 373 surrounded by the affection of his flock, and from then on revered as a great saint in Christendom. (J. Quasten, \"Patrology\") Athanasius has been recognized by the Catholic Church as a Church Father, a leading testimony of Sacred Tradition. He has also been declared a Confessor of the faith and Doctor of the Church.\n\nAfter Ignatius of Loyola's death and through the 16th, 17th and 18th centuries, the Jesuits became widely known as the schoolmasters of Europe, in part for their reputation as scholars and their demonstrated intellectual excellence as shown through the thousands of textbooks they authored. They were also known for their unity with the Pope, which was made explicit by taking a fourth vow: obedience to the Pope.\n\nTheir status in Europe greatly changed in 1773 when Pope Clement XIV gave in to pressure from groups across the continent. Pope Clement feared that many would follow the example of Henry VIII of England who abandoned the Catholic Church. On the heels of the pope's suppression of the Jesuits, many of the Jesuit's educational institutions fell under state government control, and much of the Jesuit's books and teaching materials were subsequently destroyed. Over 200 members of the order fled to Russia while over 20,000 others scattered throughout the world. Pope Pius VII lifted this suspension in 1814 and the Jesuits re-emerged as they were asked by many governments to return to the colleges they once gave up. The absolutist monarchs who had demanded the suppression had fallen by then, swept by the forces unleashed by the French Revolution of 1789.\n\nThe period following the Restoration of the Jesuits in 1814 was marked by tremendous growth, as evidenced by the large number of Jesuit colleges and universities established in the 19th century. In the United States, 22 of the Society's 28 universities were founded or taken over by the Jesuits during this time. Some claim that the experience of suppression served to heighten orthodoxy among the Jesuits upon restoration.\n\nAnother example of a sign of contradiction is the life of Pius VII. His was a difficult pontificate filled with moral and physical problems inflicted by Napoleon I whom the pope himself consecrated Emperor of the French in Notre Dame in Paris. As his armies were conquering many countries of Europe, Napoleon, who was a proponent of liberalism, is reported to have said to Church officials, \"Je détruirai votre église\" (\"I will destroy your Church\"). Later Napoleon took Pope Pius VII prisoner and sent him to Fontainebleau.\n\nThe Columbia University Encyclopedia states: \"In 1814, after Napoleon's downfall, Pius returned to Rome in triumph. One of his first acts was to restore the Society of Jesus. The Papal States were restored at the Congress of Vienna, and a series of concordats were signed with European powers. At the same time Pius VII's stolidity in the face of humiliation began a revival of personal popularity for the pope that has since characterized Catholicism.\"\n\nPius VII later offered asylum to Napoleon's elderly mother and gave both moral and material assistance to his family. Napoleon died in exile 1821 at the age of 52; Pope Pius VII died in 1823 in Rome at the age of 81.\n\nA contemporary example seen by many as of a sign of contradiction is Pope John Paul II.\nWhile Pope, he was called a reactionary and an ultraconservative, and was often criticized, stridently at times, by the media, non-Catholic and Catholics alike. He was criticized for his views on sex, homosexuality, birth control, and the role of women in the church. He was criticized for some of his canonizations, including the canonization of Opus Dei's founder, Josemaría Escrivá.\n\nAccording to George Weigel, in \"Witness to Hope\", even many Catholic theologians, especially those who had relativist and secularist tendencies, rebelled against his teaching magisterium, criticizing his views about morality, ecumenicism, the sacraments, and the ordination of women. Weigel also says that there were many attempts to assassinate him. He mentions some historians and investigators who made very plausible connections with communist leaders who feared his influence in Eastern Europe. When he died, the communist governments in the Eastern Europe had already fallen.\nTraditionalists criticized him for being too open to other religions. \nOn the other hand, on his death, he was highly praised by many, both Catholics and non-Catholics.\n\nAccording to Weigel and other Catholic commentators like John Allen, John Paul II has been praised for and will be much remembered for the following things:\n\nOpus Dei, described as one of the most controversial forces in the Roman Catholic Church, is another contemporary sign of contradiction according to some Catholic theologians.\n\nOpus Dei was denounced as a heresy by churchmen in the 1940s but is now considered one of the contributors to a central doctrine of the Second Vatican Council, the universal call to holiness and is supported by various Catholic leaders. Catholic historians say that it was attacked as pro-Franco (because of eight members were ministers, some at the same time) but some of its members driven into exile by Franco's political arm later became Senate Presidents in the new democracy. It has been criticized as a cult for various reasons. However, the late John Paul II said that its teachings on the radical demands of sanctity belongs to all Christians. \nJohn Carmel Heenan, Cardinal Archbishop of Westminster, commented in 1975: \"One of the proofs of God's favour is to be a sign of contradiction. Almost all founders of societies in the Church have suffered. Monsignor Escrivá de Balaguer is no exception. Opus Dei has been attacked and its motives misunderstood. In this country and elsewhere an inquiry has always vindicated Opus Dei.\" John Paul II, in his decree on Escrivá's heroic virtues, stated: \"God allowed him to suffer public attacks. He responded invariably with pardon, to the point of considering his detractors as benefactors. But this Cross was such a source of blessings from heaven that the Servant of God's apostolate spread with astonishing speed.\"\n\nEscrivá said that Opus Dei in order to be effective has to live like Jesus Christ and that \"its greatest glory is to live without human glory.\"\n\nWriting for Catholic Herald, Robert Royal, president of the \"Faith and Reason Institute\", Washington, D.C. reported about the results of his research which appeared in his book \"The Catholic Martyrs of the Twentieth Century: A Comprehensive Global History\". Royal states that in some countries, such as Spain, the Church has documented almost 8,000 people killed for the Catholic faith during the Spanish Civil War (1936–1939). Royal says, from the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, to Nazi Germany, Africa, Asia, and Latin America, thousands of Catholics have disappeared into gulags, been gunned down by dictators, had their heads cut off by anti-Catholic fanatics, and, in some cases, been crucified.\n\nIn Sudan, which Royal says is engaged in the most insidious anti-Catholic campaign in the world, there have been reports not only of martyrdoms and crucifixions, but of Christians in the Nuba mountains in southern Sudan being sold into slavery. It is estimated that over 1.5 million Christians have been killed by the Sudanese army, the Janjaweed, and even suspected Islamists in northern Sudan since 1984. Royal states that China, for example, has produced large numbers of martyrs. In the 1900 Boxer Rebellion alone, 30,000 Catholics died, including several dozen bishops, priests, and religious. Since the creation of the People's Republic following the end of the civil war in 1949, thousands more have died in laojiao (labor camps), facing conditions that Royal describes as brainwashing and slave labor.\n\nThe human embryo, according to Catholics, is also a sign of contradiction. According to Catholic belief, the human embryo is already a human being, as much as the human fetus and the newborn child. And for Christians, a human being is made in the image and likeness of God. The fact that these beliefs are highly contested by many quarters makes the human embryo, in the Catholic view, a sign of contradiction.\n\nElio Sgreccia, Vice President of the Pontifical Council for Life, said in an article entitled \"The Embryo: A Sign of Contradiction\":\n\nThe Shroud of Turin, an image viewed by some Christians as a miraculous imprinting of the image of Jesus on the cloth, together with the image of Our Lady of Guadalupe, are disputed as authentic supernatural depictions. For this reason, some Catholics consider them to be signs of contradictions.\n\n\"Sign of contradiction\" is also the title of Lenten meditations he preached and wrote upon the request of Paul VI. The theme of the book, according to one review, is \"the human encounter with God in a world that seems to contradict the reality of divine power and love.\" John Paul II says in his conclusion that \"It is becoming more and more evident that those words (Luke 2:34) sum up most felicitously the whole truth about Jesus Christ, his mission and his Church.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262684", "title": "Arkadij Naiditsch", "text": "Arkadij Naiditsch\n\nArkadij Naiditsch (; born 25 October 1985) is an Azerbaijani (since 2015) chess grandmaster that previously represented Latvia (until 2005) and Germany (2005–2015).\n\nIn 1995 he won the European Under-10 championship in Verdun.\n\nNaiditsch was the winner of the Dortmund Sparkassen 2005 Tournament, ahead of higher-rated and well-known players such as Loek van Wely, Veselin Topalov, Peter Svidler, Vladimir Kramnik, Michael Adams, and Peter Leko. In 2007, he won the German national championship based in Bad Königshofen.\n\nIn 2011 he won the 15th International Neckar Open with a score of 8½/9. This achievement enabled him to cross the 2700 Elo rating mark. In the same year Naiditsch played on the top board for the German team that won the gold medal at the European Team Chess Championship in Porto Carras.\n\nNaiditsch won the Grandmaster Group B of the Tata Steel Chess Tournament 2013 in Wijk aan Zee on tiebreak over Richárd Rapport after both finished on 9/13. This victory qualified him for the Tata Steel Group A of 2014 (later renamed 'Tata Steel Masters').\nIn August 2014 he won with the black pieces against World Champion Magnus Carlsen, playing first board for the German team in the 41st Chess Olympiad in Tromsø. The following month Naiditsch won the 2nd Grenke Chess Classic tournament in Baden-Baden. In December of the same year, he finished first in the 38th Zurich Christmas Open.\n\nIn January 2015 he tied for 1st–5th with Alexander Donchenko, Eduardo Iturrizaga, Matthias Dann and Miloš Pavlović in the Masters section of the Basel Chess Festival, winning the tournament on best tiebreak score.\nNaiditsch tied for first with Magnus Carlsen in the 3rd Grenke Chess Classic in February 2015, finishing second after a five-game blitz playoff, which ended with an armageddon game.\n\nIn July 2015 he switched to the Azerbaijani Chess Federation. On 30 December 2015 Naiditsch won for the second consecutive year the Zurich Christmas Open. Six days later, he won also the Basel Chess Festival for the second year in a row.\n\nIn October 2014, Naiditsch married Ukrainian-Israeli chess player IM Yuliya Shvayger. He currently lives in Baku with his family.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262690", "title": "Black Hawk Bridge", "text": "Black Hawk Bridge\n\nThe Black Hawk Bridge spans the Mississippi River, joining the town of Lansing, in Allamakee County, Iowa, to rural Crawford County, Wisconsin. It is the northernmost Mississippi River bridge in Iowa.\n\nNamed for Chief Black Hawk, it is popularly referred to as the \"Lansing bridge\". It carries Iowa Highway 9 and Wisconsin Highway 82.\n\nThis riveted cantilever through truss bridge has one of the more unusual designs of any Mississippi River bridge. Construction started in 1929 and was completed in 1931. The designer and chief engineer was Melvin B. Stone. The McClintic-Marshall Company of Chicago erected the trusses. The steel came from the Inland Steel Company.\n\nThe Wisconsin approach has a long causeway over Winneshiek bottoms (sloughs, ponds, and backwaters) before ramping up to the bridge itself. The main shipping channel is on the Iowa side. The Iowa approach is rather abrupt, going from a 25 mph city street straight up a steep ramp onto the bridge.\n\nOriginally a privately built and operated bridge owned by the Iowa-Wisconsin Bridge Company, it was closed between 1945 and 1957, due to damage from ice damming, and lacking funds to repair the bridge, the company went out of business. The two states acquired the bridge and repaired it.\n\nIn August 2011 the bridge was briefly closed for repairs after a crack was found in a floor beam.\n\nThe bridge has a sufficiency rating of 39.9%, which mainly reflects its obsolete nature. The Iowa Department of Transportation is planning for a replacement bridge to start construction in 2024.\n\nThe bridge was featured in a scene from the 1999 film The Straight Story, when Alvin Straight is depicted crossing the Mississippi River near the end of his 240 mile journey.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262694", "title": "Republic of Vietnam Navy", "text": "Republic of Vietnam Navy\n\nThe Republic of Vietnam Navy (VNN; ; \"HQVNCH\") was the naval branch of the South Vietnamese military, the official armed forces of the former Republic of Vietnam (or South Vietnam) from 1955 to 1975. The early fleet consisted of boats from France. After 1955 and the transfer of the armed forces to Vietnamese control, the fleet was supplied from the United States. With assistance from the U.S., the VNN became the largest Southeast Asian navy, with 42,000 personnel, 672 amphibious ships and craft, 20 mine warfare vessels, 450 patrol craft, 56 service craft, and 242 junks.\n\nThe origins of the Viet Nam Navy (VNN) began in 1952 with the French Navy. In 1954, in accordance with the Elysée Accords, the French handed control of the armed forces to the Vietnamese, but at the request of the Vietnamese government, continued to be in charge of the Navy until 20 August 1955. By this time the Navy numbered about 2,000 personnel, with 22 vessels. The Vietnamese then received assistance in the development of the VNN from the United States Military Assistance Advisory Group.\n\nIn 1956, the North Vietnamese began infiltrating men and arms into the Republic of Vietnam's territory by sea. In response the VNN created the Coastal Junk Force () of junks manned by Regional Irregular Forces and local fishermen recruited for the occasion, to patrol the waters around the Demilitarized Zone. The force later came to be known as Coastal Groups (), and patrolled the entire coastline. This force was under the control of the regional military zone commands rather than the Navy, and was not incorporated into the VNN until 1965, by which time it numbered over 100 vessels.\n\nIn the late 1950s the Vietnam Navy was being modernized and developed, receiving ships and training from the United States Navy. By 1961 the VNN had a force of 23 ships, the largest of which were LSMs, 197 boats, and 5,000 men. This was insufficient to counter the growing threat of enemy infiltration and the years 1962-1964 were marked by a rapid expansion; training facilities, repair bases, and support facilities were established; communications equipment and networks improved; and organization and administrative procedures strengthened. The number of ships increased to 44 and number of personnel to 8,100.\n\nThis process continued and by the end of 1967 the personnel strength of the VNN had increased to 16,300, with 65 ships, along with 232 vessels of the River Assault Group (RAG), 290 junks, and 52 miscellaneous craft. Throughout 1968 the VNN gave priority to the improvement and expansion of their training programs in anticipation of gaining increased responsibility in the war effort as well as additional assets from the US. By the end of 1968 plans for the turnover of the majority of the United States Navy assets in Vietnam had been formulated.\n\nIn early 1969, President Richard M. Nixon formally adopted the policy of \"Vietnamization\". The naval part, called ACTOV (\"Accelerated Turnover to the Vietnamese\"), involved the phased transfer to Vietnam of the U.S. river and coastal fleet, as well as operational command over various operations. In mid-1969, the VNN took sole responsibility for river assault operations when the U.S. Mobile Riverine Force stood down and transferred 64 riverine assault craft to the VNN. On 10 October 1969 80 Patrol Boat, Rivers (PBR) were transferred to the VNN at the Saigon Naval Shipyard, the PBRs were divided into four River Patrol Groups (RPGs) as part of Task Force 212.\nBy the end of 1970, the U.S. Navy ceased all operations throughout South Vietnam, having transferred a total of 293 PBRs and 224 riverine assault craft to the VNN.\n\nDuring 1970 and 1971 the United States also relinquished control of the coastal and high seas patrols to the VNN. The U.S. naval command also transferred four Coast Guard cutters, a destroyer escort radar picket ship, an LST, and various harbor control, mine craft, and support vessels. By August 1972, the VNN took responsibility for the entire coastal patrol effort when it took over the last 16 U.S. coastal radar installations.\n\nIn addition to ships and vessels, the U.S. transferred support bases. The first change of command occurred in November 1969 at Mỹ Tho, and the last in April 1972 at Nhà Bè, Bình Thủy, Cam Ranh Bay, and Đà Nẵng. By 1973, the Vietnam Navy numbered 42,000 men and over 1,400 ships and vessels.\n\nIn 1973 and 1974, as a result of the Paris Peace Accords, the United States drastically cut its financial support for the Vietnamese armed forces. The VNN was compelled to reduce its overall operations by half, and its river combat and patrol activities by 70%. To conserve supplies, over 600 river and harbor craft and 22 ships were laid up.\n\nOn 19 January 1974, four VNN ships fought a battle with four ships of the Chinese People's Liberation Army Navy over ownership of the Paracel Islands, due east of Đà Nẵng. The VNN ship \"Nhựt Tảo\" (HQ-10) was sunk, was heavily damaged, and both \"Trần Khánh Dư\" (HQ-4) and \"Trần Bình Trọng\" (HQ-5) suffered light damage. The Chinese captured and occupied the islands.\n\nIn the spring of 1975, North Vietnamese forces occupied all of northern and central South Vietnam, and finally Saigon fell on 30 April 1975. However Captain Kiem Do had secretly planned and then carried out the evacuation of a flotilla of thirty-five Vietnam Navy and other vessels, with 30,000 sailors, their families, and other civilians on board, and joined the U.S. Seventh Fleet when it sailed for Subic Bay, Philippines. Most of the Vietnamese ships were later taken into the Philippine Navy, though the LSM \"Lam Giang\" (HQ-402), fuel barge \"HQ-474\", and gunboat \"Kéo Ngựa\" (HQ-604) were scuttled after reaching the open sea and transferring their cargo of refugees and their crews to other ships.\n\nVNN Fleet Command was directly responsible to the VNN Chief of Naval Operations for the readiness of ships and craft. The Fleet Commander assigned and scheduled ships to operate in the Coastal Zones, Riverine Areas, and the Rung Sat Special Zone. All Fleet Command ships were home ported in Saigon and normally returned there after deployments. When deployed, operational control was assumed by the respective zone or area commander, and the ships operated from the following ports:\n\nThe VNN was organized into two flotillas: a patrol flotilla and a logistics flotilla. Flotilla I was composed of patrol ships, organized into four squadrons. The patrol types included LSSLs and LSILs which normally operated only in Riverine Areas or the Rung Sat Special Zone; though occasionally they were assigned the four coastal zones. Operational commitments required that half of the patrol flotilla be deployed at all times, with a boat typically spending 40 to 50 days at sea on each patrol. Fleet Command patrol ships assigned to the riverine areas provided naval gunfire support as well as patrolling the main waterways in the riverine areas. One river patrol unit was assigned as convoy escort on the Mekong River to and from the Cambodian border.\n\nFlotilla II was composed of logistic ships, divided into two squadrons, supporting the naval units and bases throughout South Vietnam. Logistic ships were under the administrative control of the Fleet Commander, and under the operational control of the VNN Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics who acted upon orders from the Central Logistics Command of the Joint General Staff.\n\nThe VNN training establishment consisted of a Training Bureau located at VNN Headquarters, with Training Centers located in Saigon, Nha Trang, and Cam Ranh Bay.\n\nThe Saigon Naval Shipyard, located on the southwest bank of the Saigon River about from the South China Sea, represented the largest single industrial complex in South East Asia. The shipyard had been created by the French in 1863 as a major repair and resupply base. The longest-serving director was Navy Captain – Functional Navy Commodore Nguyễn Văn Lịch until the fall of Saigon on April 30, 1975. In 1969, 1,800 men were employed there, repairing and overhauling vessels, enabling the VNN to maintain its continuous patrols of the coast.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262699", "title": "Sun Fire", "text": "Sun Fire\n\nSun Fire is a series of server computers introduced in 2001 by Sun Microsystems (since 2010, part of Oracle Corporation). The Sun Fire branding coincided with the introduction of the UltraSPARC III processor, superseding the UltraSPARC II-based Sun Enterprise series. In 2003, Sun broadened the Sun Fire brand, introducing Sun Fire servers using the Intel Xeon processor. In 2004, these early Intel Xeon models were superseded by models powered by AMD Opteron processors. Also in 2004, Sun introduced Sun Fire servers powered by the UltraSPARC IV dual-core processor. In 2007, Sun again introduced Intel Xeon Sun Fire servers, while continuing to offer the AMD Opteron versions as well.\n\nSPARC-based Sun Fire systems were produced until 2010, while x86-64 based machines were marketed until mid-2012. In mid-2012, Oracle Corporation ceased to use the Sun Fire brand for new server models.\nUltraSPARC-based Sun Fire models are licensed to run the Solaris operating system versions 8, 9, and 10. Although not officially supported, some Linux versions are also available from third parties, as well as OpenBSD and NetBSD.\n\nIntel Xeon and AMD Opteron based Sun Fire servers support Solaris 9 and 10, OpenBSD, Red Hat Enterprise Linux versions 3 - 6, SUSE Linux Enterprise Server 10 and 11, Windows 2000, Windows Server 2003, 2008, and 2008 R2 .\n\nLater Sun Fire model numbers have prefixes indicating the type of system, thus:\n\nWhen Sun offered Intel Xeon and AMD Opteron Sun Fire servers under the V-Series sub brand, Sun used an x suffix to denote Intel Xeon processor based systems and a z suffix for AMD Opteron processor based systems, but this convention was later dropped. The z suffix was also used previously to differentiate the V880z Visualization Server variant of the V880 server.\n\nSun's first-generation blade server platform, the Sun Fire B1600 chassis and associated blade servers, was branded under the Sun Fire server brand. Later Sun blade systems were sold under the Sun Blade brand.\n\nIn 2007, Sun, Fujitsu and Fujitsu Siemens introduced the common SPARC Enterprise brand for server products. The first SPARC Enterprise models were the Fujitsu-developed successors to the midrange and high-end Sun Fire E-series. In addition, the Sun Fire T1000 and T2000 servers were rebranded as the SPARC Enterprise T1000 and T2000 and sold under the Fujitsu brands, although Sun continued to offer these with their original names. Later T-series servers have also been badged SPARC Enterprise rather than Sun Fire.\n\nSince late 2010, Oracle Corporation no longer uses Sun Fire brand for their current T series SPARC servers, and since mid-2012 for new X series x86-64 machines based on Intel Xeon CPUs. x86-64 server models which had been developed by Sun Microsystems before its acquisition, and were still in production, have all been rebranded as Sun Server X-series.\n\nSome servers were produced in two versions, the original version and a later RoHS version. Since a general maintenance and upgrade guideline is that RoHS components and spares may be installed into the original non-RoHS versions of that server, the end-of-life (EOL) date of a server is deemed the EOL date of the RoHS version of that server in this listing.\n\nAs of 2012, the x86 server range continued under the \"Sun Server\" or \"Oracle Server\" names.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262705", "title": "Modern Defense, Monkey's Bum", "text": "Modern Defense, Monkey's Bum\n\nThe Monkey's Bum is a variation of the Modern Defense, a chess opening. Although it may also be loosely defined as any approach against the Modern Defense involving an early Bc4 and Qf3, threatening \"Scholar's mate\", it is strictly defined by the sequence of moves:\n\nThe Monkey's Bum Deferred is a more respected variation in which White develops his queen's knight before playing Bc4 and Qf3.\nThe Monkey's Bum was discovered and championed by IM Nigel Povah in the 1970s during a wave of popularity for the Modern Defence. In 1972, after Keene and Botterill published their book \"The Modern Defence\", Povah began looking for a response to the opening. He happened across the game Ljubojević–Keene, Palma de Mallorca 1971, which started 1.e4 g6 2.d4 d6 3.Bc4 Bg7 4.f4 Nf6 and eventually ended in a draw. Intrigued by Ljubojević's early Bc4, Povah began investigating a rapid assault on f7 with 3.Qf3. When he showed the first few moves to Ken Coates, a friend at Leeds, Coates declared, \"If that works then I'm a monkey's bum!\" The name stuck. The Monkey's Bum first appeared in print five years later in the \"British Chess Magazine\". Povah wrote an article on the theory of the Monkey's Bum, in which he stated that although he had never yet lost with the variation, it was still \"in its infancy\".\n\nIn playing the Monkey's Bum, White's idea is to gain active piece play by a sacrifice of the d4-pawn, much like the Smith-Morra Gambit. In practice however, such compensation proves tenuous in the Monkey's Bum proper, as evidenced by the following game:\n\nA much more popular and respected approach against the Modern Defense is the Monkey's Bum Deferred. It has been employed by such notable grandmasters as John Nunn, Sergei Rublevsky and Judit Polgár. It is distinct from the Monkey's Bum proper in that the attempt to create the \"Scholar's mate\" threat with Bc4 and Qf3 only occurs after White has developed his queen's knight. A typical sequence of the Monkey's Bum Deferred is 1.e4 g6 2.d4 Bg7 3.Nc3 c6 4.Bc4 d6 5.Qf3 (see diagram). Usually White will castle kingside and undertake an attack by means of the pawn thrust f2–f4.\n\nThe following spectacular game is probably the most famous success of the Monkey's Bum Deferred and forced it to be considered with respect by the chess world:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262708", "title": "Herbert F. Johnson Museum of Art", "text": "Herbert F. Johnson Museum of Art\n\nThe Herbert F. Johnson Museum of Art (\"The Johnson Museum\") is an art museum located on the northwest corner of the Arts Quad on the main campus of Cornell University in Ithaca, New York. Its collection includes two windows from Frank Lloyd Wright's Darwin D. Martin House, and more than 35,000 other works in the permanent collection. It was designed by architect I.M. Pei and is known for its distinctive concrete facade.\n\nPresident Deane Waldo Malott established the original University Art Museum in 1953. The A. D. White House was renovated to house Cornell's art collections. The current museum, constructed in 1973, is named after its primary benefactor, Herbert Fisk Johnson, Jr., a Cornell Class of 1922 graduate, head of S.C. Johnson & Sons (\"Johnson Wax\"), and a former member of the university's Board of Trustees.\n\nThe Johnson Museum of Art was designed by architect I.M. Pei. It can be characterized by its fifth floor, which cantilevers over the open aired sculpture garden. It was designed so that it would not block the view of Cayuga Lake, and offers a panoramic view of the same from its north and west sides. It also houses a room for meetings on the sixth floor, which was used for many years by Cornell's Board of Trustees.\n\nThe unique location of the museum presented several architectural challenges; building space was limited, and it could not overwhelm the view of Cayuga Lake or the nearby Arts Quad. Moreover, it would sit atop the knoll where tradition said Ezra Cornell chose the site for his university, at the north end of the Stone Row of McGraw, Morrill, and White Halls. The design sought to visually terminate the north end of Library Slope. The resulting design was a narrow tower and a bridge, which critics have likened to a giant sewing machine.\n\nThe building was awarded the American Institute of Architects Honor Award in 1975. The building's design also appeared on the cover of \"Scientific American\" as an early example of computer graphics.\n\nIn 2011, the Museum opened renovated spaces and a 16,000-square-foot extension inspired by the original plans drawn up by Pei Cobb Freed & Partners. The head architect was John L. Sullivan III, Cornell class of 1962. The project cost $22 million, including some renovations to the main building, and was funded by major grants from the National Endowment for the Humanities and the Kresge Foundation. The Asian art storage area was relocated from the center of the fifth floor to the lower level of the addition, making room for additional public gallery space on the fifth floor. An outdoor Japanese garden was created outside the extension.\n\nIn 2015, Cornell filed a lawsuit against Pei Cobb Freed & Partners for \"architectural malpractice,\" citing an \"inherently flawed and materially defective\" design of the new wing. Cornell claimed the addition was \"fundamentally flawed\" and resulted in over $1.1 million in damage costs.\n\nThe permanent collection consists of more than 35,000 works of art. Most notable is the George and Mary Rockwell Asian Art collection. Spanning from the Middle Ages to the 20th century, the European collection includes works by Albrecht Dürer, William Hogarth, Francisco Goya, Édouard Manet, Charles-François Daubigny, Edgar Degas, William-Adolphe Bouguereau, Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec, Otto Dix, Fernand Léger and Henri Matisse.There are also extensive holdings of American artists, including Georgia O'Keeffe and Andy Warhol, as well as members of the Hudson River School and the American Impressionists to contemporary art. The Collection of Prints, Drawings, and Photographs consists of more than 22,000 works, including works by Berenice Abbott, Robert Frank, Alfred Stieglitz, and Garry Winogrand. Its fifth floor houses the museum's extensive Asian collection. The permanent collection also includes works from Africa, pre-Columbian America, and Oceania, representing many eras.\n\nAlthough for-credit classes are conducted by Cornell's academic departments rather than the museum, the museum does provide curriculum-structured gallery sessions for specific classes. It also hosts faculty-conducted gallery tours and course-related exhibitions. The museum also hosts thematic tours for local school student field trips. The Johnson Museum Club is a Cornell student group that promotes awareness of the Johnson Museum's facilities and collections. It hosts concerts, scavenger hunts and other events.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262709", "title": "BYB", "text": "BYB\n\nBYB or byb may stand for:\n\n"}
{"id": "2262721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262721", "title": "Integration clause", "text": "Integration clause\n\nIn contract law, an integration clause, merger clause, (sometimes, particularly in the United Kingdom, referred to as an entire agreement clause) is a clause in a written contract which declares that contract to be the complete and final agreement between the parties. It is often placed at or towards the end of the contract. Any pre-contractual material which the parties wish to be incorporated into the contract need to be assembled with it or explicitly referred to in the contractual documentation. \n\nA contract that has such a clause may be deemed an integrated contract, and any previous negotiations in which the parties to the contract had considered different terms will be deemed superseded by the final writing. However, many modern cases have found merger clauses to be only a rebuttable presumption.\n\nIn the United States, the existence of such a term is normally not conclusive proof that no varied or additional conditions exist with respect to the performance of the contract beyond those that are in the writing but instead is simply evidence of that fact.\n\n\"This Agreement, along with any exhibits, appendices, addenda, schedules, and amendments hereto, encompasses the entire agreement of the parties, and supersedes all previous understandings and agreements between the parties, whether oral or written. The parties hereby acknowledge and represent, by affixing their hands and seals hereto, that said parties have not relied on any representation, assertion, guarantee, warranty, collateral contract or other assurance, except those set out in this Agreement, made by or on behalf of any other party or any other person or entity whatsoever, prior to the execution of this Agreement. The parties hereby waive all rights and remedies, at law or in equity, arising or which may arise as the result of a party’s reliance on such representation, assertion, guarantee, warranty, collateral contract or other assurance, provided that nothing herein contained shall be construed as a restriction or limitation of said party’s right to remedies associated with the gross negligence, willful misconduct or fraud of any person or party taking place prior to, or contemporaneously with, the execution of this Agreement.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2262725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262725", "title": "HMCS Cape Breton (ARE 100)", "text": "HMCS Cape Breton (ARE 100)\n\nHMCS \"Cape Breton was a Royal Canadian Navy . Originally built for the Royal Navy as HMS \"Flamborough Head in 1944 she was transferred in 1952. Upon her commissioning she was the second ship to bear the name \"Cape Breton\". She served operationally from 1953–64, when she was laid up. She was used as a floating machine shop until the late 1990s, before being sold for use as an artificial reef off the coast of British Columbia.\n\n\"Flamborough Head\" was one of the 21 s, built for the Royal Navy during the Second World War. The \"Beachy Head\"s were modified versions of the Fort ship, called the \"Victory\" design. The ships of the class had a standard displacement of and fully loaded. They were long overall and between perpendiculars with a beam of and a draught of . The vessels were propelled by one shaft driven by a reciprocating triple expansion steam engine powered by steam from two Foster Wheeler boilers, creating . This gave the vessels a maximum speed of . The vessels had a complement of 270.\n\nWhile in British service the vessel was armed with sixteen single-mounted Oerlikon 20 mm cannons. Upon conversion to a mobile repair ship, the vessels were equipped with landing pads for Sikorsky H04S helicopters situated aft. A decompression chamber was installed and shops for multiple trades such as engineering, diesel engine repair, sheet metal welding, coppersmith and electronic repair among others were created within the ship. The vessels were also equipped with an eight-berth hospital, sick bay, X-ray room, medical lab, dental clinic and lab.\n\n\"Flamborough Head\" (pennant F88) was laid down on 5 July 1944 by Burrard Dry Dock in Vancouver, British Columbia and launched on 7 October 1944. She was completed on 2 May 1945. \"Flamborough Head\" finished the Second World War in service with the Royal Navy and continued into the postwar period until 1952, when she was transferred to Canada.\n\n\"Flamborough Head\" was transferred to the Royal Canadian Navy in 1952. She was officially renamed and recommissioned \"Cape Breton\" on 31 January 1953. \"Cape Breton\" was assigned to the Atlantic Fleet and homeported at Halifax, Nova Scotia until 25 August 1958 as a repair and training ship. She had been acquired in an effort to expand the range of the fleet and to sustain operations against Soviet submarines deploying west. In 1958 she sailed to Esquimalt, British Columbia where she was converted to an escort maintenance ship, she was recommissioned on 16 November 1959. The conversion involved installing engineering and electrical workshops and the fitting of a helicopter landing platform. Sea trials were performed in Magdalena Bay, Mexico in February 1960, returning to Canada in March after visiting San Diego.\n\nOn 10 February 1964, \"Cape Breton\" was paid off into the reserve. This was due to efforts to cut costs. From there on, the vessel served as a towed support facility and accommodation vessel at Esquimalt under the designation Maintenance Group (Pacific). In 1993, she was replaced by a shore building. She was sold to the Artificial Reef Society of British Columbia (ARSBC) for use as an artificial reef.\n\nExcept for a short section of the stern and her engines, the ship was sunk in the waters of British Columbia on 20 October 2001 by the ARSBC after extensive cleaning to meet Environment Canada requirements. The ship now lies near Snake Island in Nanaimo harbour for use as a scuba diving site. \"Cape Breton\" sank upright to a depth of . Her crow's nest reaches up to below the surface, the main deck lies at .\n\nThe stern was donated to the city of North Vancouver, British Columbia by the Artificial Reef Society. They placed it on display on the waterfront in 2001 with the plan to eventually develop the area into a maritime museum. However, those plans fell through in 2007 from lack of support. On 9 September 2013, the city council voted to dispose of the stern as the cradle upon which it was resting began to near the end of its life, and it was dismantled.\n\nThe Christening Bells Project at Canadian Forces Base Esquimalt Naval and Military Museum includes information from the ship's bell of HMCS \"Cape Breton\", which was used for baptism of babies onboard ship from 1959–1971. The bell is currently held by the CFB Esquimalt Naval & Military Museum, Esquimalt, British Columbia.\n\nFleet Maintenance Facility \"Cape Breton\" was formed in 1996 at CFB Esquimalt from the amalgamation of three shore-based units: Ship Repair Unit (Pacific), Naval Engineering Unit (Pacific), and Fleet Maintenance Group (Pacific). Fleet Maintenance Facility \"Cape Breton\" took its name from HMCS \"Cape Breton\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262737", "title": "Half &amp; Half", "text": "Half &amp; Half\n\nHalf & Half is an American sitcom that aired on UPN from September 23, 2002, to May 15, 2006. The show focuses on the lives of two paternal half-sisters in their twenties who were estranged throughout their childhood, and are finally developing a close relationship. The series is set in San Francisco.\n\nIt was the second-most-watched show on UPN's Monday night line-up (next to \"Girlfriends\") and fourth overall on the network. The show was on The CW's first draft line-up in March 2006, but due to several circumstances—including The CW's contractual obligation to pick up \"Reba\", the uncancelling of \"All of Us\", and the pick-up of the \"Girlfriends\" spin-off \"The Game\"—\"Half & Half\" was left off the final Fall 2006 schedule and ended production. The series has aired in reruns on Global TV in Canada, Trouble in the United Kingdom and in local syndication in the United States. Starting October 5, 2015 reruns began airing on Bounce TV. Since 2017, BET Her (formerly Centric) has added to the show to its daily schedule.\n\nThe show's plot centers around the lives of half-sisters Mona and DeeDee and their growing relationship. Mona, the elder, at first resents DeeDee because she was the one who had been living with their father while Mona lived with her mother, becoming the more level-headed one. Second-born DeeDee was spoiled and became the more fashionable, upscale, and materialistic of the two (and also somewhat dimwitted). Through the series the half-sisters grow on each other and deal with issues from the past until they can deal with each other as people in the here and now. They learn to love each other and ease into the roles they would have had if they had grown up together, and take on helping each other with work, dating, and their parents.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262768", "title": "Distinctive unit insignia", "text": "Distinctive unit insignia\n\nA distinctive unit insignia (DUI) is a metallic heraldic badge or device worn by soldiers in the United States Army. The DUI design is derived from the coat of arms authorized for a unit. DUIs may also be called \"distinctive insignia\" (DI) or, imprecisely, a \"crest\" or a \"unit crest\" by soldiers or collectors. The U.S. Army Institute of Heraldry is responsible for the design, development and authorization of all DUIs.\n\nPre-World War I Insignia. Distinctive ornamentation of a design desired by the organization was authorized for wear on the Mess Jacket uniform by designated organizations (staff corps, departments, corps of artillery, and infantry and cavalry regiments) per General Order 132 dated December 31, 1902. The distinctive ornamentation was described later as coats of arms, pins and devices. The authority continued until omitted in the Army uniform regulation dated December 26, 1911.\n\nDistinctive unit insignia. Circular 161 dated 29 April 1920 authorized the use of the regimental coat of arms or badge as approved by the War Department for wear on the collar of the white uniform and the lapels of the mess jacket. Circular 244, 1921 states: \"It has been approved, in principle, that regiments of the Regular Army and National Guard may wear distinctive badges or trimmings on their uniforms as a means of promoting esprit de corps and keeping alive historical traditions. Various organizations which carry colors or standards have generally submitted coats of arms having certain historical significance. As fast as approved these coats of arms will for the basis for regimental colors or standards which will eventually replace the present regimental colors or standards when these wear out. The use of these coats of arms as collar ornaments in lieu of the insignia of corps, departments, or arms of service would be an example of distinctive badge to be worn by the regiment.\" `The first unit to wear this insignia was the 51st Artillery which received approval for wear on March 18, 1922. It was designed by Master Gunner and Master Sergeant Edward C. Kuhn, the artist responsible for creating all authorized coats of arms and distinctive unit insignia at the time.\n\nPresent. Up until 1965, only regiments and separate battalions were authorized a coat of arms and distinctive units insignia. Now all major commands, field hospitals, corps, logistics commands and certain other units – groups, for example – are authorized distinctive unit insignia.\n\nThe unit commanding officer requests approval of a distinctive unit insignia. A check is made by the Institute of Heraldry to determine the availability of a current copy of the lineage and honor statement and/or history for the unit. If it is not available, one is requested from the United States Army Center of Military History. The unit's history is reviewed to determine if the unit may inherit a previously approved distinctive unit insignia or if a new design should be made.\n\nIf a new design is to be made, careful study is made of the history and battle honors of the unit. The most important decorations, honors, combat service and missions are represented in the design of the insignia. Sometimes two centuries of history are condensed into symbolism for one distinctive unit insignia. A proposed design is created and sent to the commanding officer for review and concurrence. Upon concurrence by the unit commander an official letter of approval of the distinctive unit insignia is sent to the unit.\n\nManufacturing drawings and specifications are sent to a certified manufacturer which provides samples of the finished distinctive unit insignia to the Institute of Heraldry for approval. Once approved the manufacturer may produce this insignia. Each manufacturer has an identifying hallmark assigned by the Institute of Heraldry which is applied to the back of the insignia.\n\nThe shield shape design is used to identify color bearing organizations (for example, regiments and battalions). Other design patterns will be used for non-color bearing units. The design is based on war service, assignment or accomplishments. Cartoon characters or logos are not authorized as design elements. Symbols are to represent mission rather than actual equipment as equipment becomes out-of-date. Unit designations, numerals, letters, geographical outlines, reproductions of other insignia will not be included as part of the design.\n\nOnce a distinctive unit insignia is approved it is changed only when a heraldic or historical error is found. A modification of unit designation or mission does not permit a change to the DUI design. As a result, DUIs tend to further reflect the historic roots of a unit. For example, many older Military Intelligence battalions' DUIs feature teal blue rather than oriental blue, having been designed for Army Security Agency units which were designated as branch-immaterial. Likewise, those that began as Signals units typically feature orange. The 211th Military Police Battalion provides an example of a unit changing branches without changing insignia, having been assigned to six different branches during its existence. Color-bearing battalions and regiments continue to have insignia without the shield shape if they were formerly non-color-bearing units when the insignia was approved; this includes not only former groups and brigades that were down-sized, but as well flexible battalions (i.e., battalions composed of variable attached numbered companies, rather than fixed-TOE battalions composed of lettered companies which are organic to the battalion) which gained coats of arms and thus colors in the late 1990s, long after their DUIs were already approved.\n\nDistinctive unit insignia (DUI) of a design approved by The Institute of Heraldry, U.S. Army, are authorized under Paragraph 28-22 of Army Regulation 670-1.\n\nThe distinctive unit insignia of the unit to which the soldier is assigned are worn as follows:\n\n<poem>On the beret flash of enlisted personnel\nOn the breast patch of the black pullover sweater\nOn the shoulder loops of the enlisted personnel's Army Service Uniform jacket (when not worn in dress configuration) centered on the shoulder loops an equal distance from the outside shoulder seam to the outside edge of the button, with the base of the insignia toward the outside shoulder seam. \nAbove the nameplate on the Class A and Class B service uniforms, when the DUI is worn in lieu of a regimental distinctive insignia (RDI). At the soldier's option the RDI, the DUI of their current assignment or the DUI of a previous assignment may be worn above the nameplate. If worn, the RDI for whole branch regiments (MP, Signal, Quartermaster) must be that of the soldier's current career field.</poem>\nWhen a DUI is authorized, all personnel assigned to the organization wear the insignia, except general officers, the Sergeant Major of the Army and the Senior Enlisted Advisor to the Chairman. General officers wear their regimental distinctive insignia (RDI) on the black pullover sweater. The Sergeant Major of the Army and Senior Enlisted Advisor to the Chairman (if a soldier) wear, respectively, the SMA and SEAC collar insignia in lieu of the DUI on their pullover sweaters and berets, but their epaulets are bare.\n\nUnits not listed in AR 670-1 (other than USAG) may request a DUI be authorized if the unit has at least 500 military assigned (250 for Department of the Army operating agencies). The Army element of joint commands may be authorized a DUI if the Army element has at least 500 Army personnel.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262771", "title": "My Date with a Vampire", "text": "My Date with a Vampire\n\nMy Date with a Vampire is a 1998 Hong Kong television series produced by ATV. The story is based on the future events of the plot of \"Vampire Expert\", a similar two-season television drama aired on ATV in 1995 and 1996. It blends aspects of the \"hopping\" corpses of jiangshi fiction with those of western vampires, while injecting elements of Chinese mythology and modern horror legends. The series is a tribute to Lam Ching-ying, the lead actor of \"Vampire Expert\" and a prominent cast member in the \"Mr. Vampire\" franchise, who died of liver cancer in 1997. It was followed by \"My Date with a Vampire II\" (2000) and \"My Date with a Vampire III\" (2004).\n\nAccording to Netease Report, Fox Networks Group will remake the series. Cora Yim, the head of Fox Networks Group Asia, claimed that one-third of ATV's inventory had been acquired by Fox Networks Group, including 28 television series; \"My Date with a Vampire\" is one of the 28.\n\nFong Kwok-wah is a Chinese guerrilla fighter from the time of the Second Sino-Japanese War. In 1938, he was fighting with Yamamoto Kazuo, a major of the Imperial Japanese Army, when they were interrupted by Cheung San, the progenitor of all vampires. The two men and a boy named Fuk-sang were bitten by Cheung San and they become vampires.\n\nIn present-day 1998, Fong lives in Hong Kong under a new name, Fong Tin-yau. His physical appearance has not changed since 60 years ago. He works as a policeman while Fuk-sang lives with him, attends primary school, and pretends to be his son. Fong meets Ma Siu-ling, the heiress to a clan of ghostbusters who have dedicated themselves to ridding the world of evil supernatural beings. Fong gradually becomes embroiled in a love triangle with Ma and Wong Jan-jan, Ma's close friend and confidante.\n\nOn the other hand, Yamamoto has become the influential boss of a big company, and he commands a small group of vampire followers. Planning to turn every human being into a vampire, Yamamoto unleashes his minions to attack people and spread the \"vampire gene\". Chaos break out in Hong Kong as vampires multiply and roam the streets freely. At this point, Fong teams up with Ma and his friends to stop Yamamoto and destroy him.\n\nHowever, even after Yamamoto dies, not long later, a magician called Yu-meng Sap-sam resurrects him and controls him to do his bidding. The magician is actually Lo Hau, an evil sorcerer from ancient times who wants to dominate the universe. Once again, Fong, Ma and their allies combine forces to confront Lo Hau and put an end to his wicked ambitions.\n\n\nThe vampires depicted in this television series trilogy are based on the Chinese jiangshi and the western vampire, although they resemble the latter more. They are creatures that do not belong to the Trailokya or any of the six domains in the desire realm as described in Buddhist cosmology. They do not age and need to regularly feed on blood to sustain themselves. They may also possess powers such as superhuman speed or the ability to shapeshift, in addition to their \"immortal\" status. Their powers and invulnerability to sunlight, religious symbols and other things that typical vampires fear, however, become weaker as the generation gap between them and Cheung San (the progenitor of all vampires) increases. An example to illustrate this concept of \"generation\" is as follows: Person A, who became a vampire after being bitten by Cheung San himself, is known as a second generation vampire. Person B, who became a vampire after being bitten by Person A or another direct victim of Cheung San, is a third generation vampire, and so on.\n\nAt the end of the second season, it is revealed that Pangu, the creator of the universe in Chinese mythology, is not a single entity, but rather, a clan of divine beings who are all first generation vampires. Unlike others, these vampires do not need to feed on blood to survive. It is hinted that Cheung San is a member of the Pangu clan. In the third season, two important Chinese mythological figures, Fuxi and Yaochi Shengmu, are depicted as first generation vampires.\n\nA vampire's generation or type can be identified by his/her eye colour when he/she is in \"vampire mode\". See the table below for details.\n\nThe script for \"My Date with a Vampire\" was written by Leung Lap-yan in 1997. Leung attempted to market the script to TVB but was rejected, so he went to ATV instead. Chan Sap-sam, who wrote the script for the two sequels, revealed that Lam Ching-ying, a prominent cast member in the \"Mr. Vampire\" franchise, was their original choice for the lead actor, and that Joey Meng did not have a place in their initial cast list. However, after they finalised the script, they were unable to contact Lam, who was critically ill. Besides, ATV's top management was not pleased with the script because they felt that it did not fit people's impressions of how vampires should be like. ATV's top management wanted to cancel the project after Lam died of liver cancer in 1997. Faced with these problems, Chan decided to make bold changes to the script and create a new character — Ma Siu-ling, a female ghostbuster wearing high heels and a miniskirt who is greedy for money. Sin Chi-wai, the producer for the series, recommended Joey Meng to play Ma Siu-ling. When Eric Wan was offered to play the male lead character in the series, he wanted to turn down the offer because he felt exhausted, but eventually agreed as he became more interested in the story.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262778", "title": "McFatter Technical College and Technical High School", "text": "McFatter Technical College and Technical High School\n\nWilliam T. McFatter Technical College and High School is a public adult technical college that also includes a magnet high school. The campus is located in Davie, Florida and is part of the Broward County Public Schools district.\n\nAdult enrollment is approximately 1000 students. The magnet high school maintains an average of 600 pupils in the school at one time, about 150 students per grade. These students are picked out of a lottery after they have met the requirements to get into the school. Certain requirements include a GPA of at least 2.5 and an FCAT score of a Level 3 or higher.\n\nMcFatter Technical College and High School originally opened in 1985 as a vocational center for adults, known at the time as William T. McFatter Vocational-Technical Center. The campus is part of the South Florida Education Center in Davie, Florida which consists of Broward College, Florida Atlantic University, Nova Southeastern University, and the University of Florida. In 1998, the campus added a magnet high school which focused on college preparation and technical training. In 2002, William T. McFatter Technical High School was honored as Florida's model high school. It was also named a New Millennium High School, being only one of twenty in the state of Florida. The high school has received an \"A\" grade from the State of Florida continuously since 2002. In 2009 the high school has recognized as a National Blue Ribbon School of Excellence. The Blue Ribbon Schools Program honors public and private schools based on one of two criteria: 1) Schools whose students, regardless of background, achieve in the top 10 percent of their state on state tests or in the case of private schools in the top 10 percent of the nation on nationally-normed tests; and 2) Schools with at least 40 percent of their students from disadvantaged backgrounds that demonstrate dramatic improvement of student performance to high levels on state tests or nationally-normed tests. In June 2014, the name of the school changed to William T. McFatter Technical College and High School.\n\nAdults take either a daily 5 or 6 hour hands-on technical program which gives them training to enter the workforce. They are taught by professionals in their respective fields. In the high school, for their freshman and sophomore years, students are required to take a \"Tech Studies\" course, in which they explore the aspects of all the technical programs that the college has to offer. With the end of their sophomore year, students are required to choose their technical program for the rest of their high school years. All students take honor classes or classes on higher levels, and many take Advanced Placement courses. Adult hours range between 7:30am and 2:30pm, with some evening and/or Saturday classes, as well. The high school operates from 9:15am to 4:10pm. Students that use school buses as transportation home must take a shuttle bus to Nova High School, where they then get on their buses. There are many clubs and organizations for students to participate. \n\nThere is currently one main high school building for academic classes.\nBecause the campus does not have any sports teams, Physical Education and Health Management classes are required to be taken as a freshman and sophomore. The school symbol is a Storm, represented by a storm design. The first high school class to graduate from McFatter was in 2002. The class of 2008 had $1.6 million in scholarships.\n\nAs of September 2015, the total high school student enrollment was 613. The ethnic makeup of the school was 26.9% White, 22% Black, 43.3% Hispanic, 5.22% Asian, 2.44% Multiracial, and 0% Native American, Native Indian, Native Hawaiian, or Pacific Islander.\n"}
{"id": "2262784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262784", "title": "The Boy Least Likely To", "text": "The Boy Least Likely To\n\nThe Boy Least Likely To is an English indie pop duo, composed of composer/multi-instrumentalist Pete Hobbs and lyricist/singer Jof Owen.\n\nOwen and Hobbs both grew up in the village of Wendover in Buckinghamshire. After meeting at school, Owen and Hobbs began writing and recording songs as The Boy Least Likely To in the summer of 2002. Creating their own independent record label, Too Young to Die, the band's first release was the 7\" single \"Paper Cuts\" in 2003. They released three singles and completed the recording of their debut album before playing any live shows. The debut album, \"The Best Party Ever\", which compiled the band's first three singles and added five new tracks, was released in the UK in February 2005, and in the United States in late Spring 2006.\n\n\"The Best Party Ever\" was included in the Pitchfork top 50 albums of 2005 and was number 8 in the Rough Trade Shop top 100 albums of the same year.\n\nThe band describe their own sound as 'Country Disco' in their song \"I'm Glad I Hitched My Apple Wagon To Your Star\". They were included in the top ten bands of 2006 in Rolling Stone magazine, and described as sounding like what would happen \"if all your childhood stuffed animals got together and started a band.\"\n\nTheir second album, \"Law of the Playground\", was delayed by label troubles and released in April 2009. It includes the singles \"Every Goliath Has Its David\", \"A Balloon On A Broken String\", \"When Life Gives Me Lemons I Make Lemonade\" and \"A Fairytale Ending\".\n\nIn December 2010, they released a seasonal album called \"Christmas Special\", which included eight original compositions and three traditional festive songs. It includes the single \"George and Andrew\".\n\nThe fourth album, \"The Great Perhaps\", was released in 2013. It Includes the singles \"It Could've Been Me\" featuring Gwenno Saunders from The Pipettes, \"Climbing Out Of love\", \"I Keep Falling In Love With You Again\" and \"Michael Collins\", a song written about the Apollo 11 astronaut Michael Collins.\n\nIn 2014 Jof Owen formed the band Legends Of Country, and released the singles \"That's What We Talk About When We Talk About Country\" and \"It's A Long Way Back From A Dream\", a song about the darts player Richie Burnett.\n\nRashida Jones starred in the video for their single \"Be Gentle with Me\" in 2005.\nTheir songs have been used in a number of different commercials in the USA for Coca-Cola and General Electric Cars and films and television shows including \"Easy A\" and \"Grey's Anatomy\". \"Be Gentle With Me\" has been featured in a commercial in the UK for ING Direct and \"I'm Glad I Hitched My Apple Wagon To Your Star\" was used in a UK commercial for Cadburys Chocolate Digestive Biscuits in 2008. In February 2010, Apple, Inc. featured The Boy Least Likely To's song \"Stringing Up Conkers\" in an advertisement for the iPhone 3GS. In April 2010, the same song was also featured in an iPad demonstration video for iTunes. In April 2014 the song \"Be Gentle With Me\" was featured during the first 30 seconds of trailer #2 for the movie \"Blended\" starring Adam Sandler and Drew Barrymore. The song \"When Life Gives Me Lemons, I Make Lemonade\" was used in the 2010 Emma Stone comedy Easy A and in the 2018 film Peter Rabbit, which were both directed by Will Gluck.\n\nMusicians known to have toured with The Boy Least Likely To include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262786", "title": "Yogi Rock", "text": "Yogi Rock\n\nYogi Rock is a rock on Mars that was discovered during the Mars Pathfinder mission in 1997, and named by Geoffrey A. Landis. The rocks found on the mission were named after famous icons and figures, and Yogi Rock was thought to resemble the head of a bear looking away from the spacecraft. As a result, it was named for the famed cartoon character Yogi Bear.\n\nThe rock was the first on Mars found to be made of basalt, which suggests previous volcanic activity in the region as basalt is an igneous rock. The smoothness of the surface also suggested the past existence of water in the region. Yogi was also the first large rock reached by the \"Sojourner\" rover and was analyzed by an alpha proton X-ray spectrometer to determine its composition.\n\nImages of \"Sojourner\" approaching Yogi used in the opening credits of \"\" made that television program the first science fiction television or film production in history to use footage taken on another planet.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262789", "title": "Cold calling", "text": "Cold calling\n\nCold calling is the solicitation of business from potential customers who have had no prior contact with the salesperson conducting the call. It is an attempt to convince potential customers to purchase either the salesperson's product or service. Generally, it is referred as an over-the-phone process, making it a source of telemarketing, but can also be done in-person by door-to-door salespeople. Though cold calling can be used as a legitimate business tool, scammers can use cold calling as well.\n\nCold calling, as a means to conduct business, has seen changes as technology has increased. Salespeople who use cold calling once followed specific guidelines in order to produce more profit. These guidelines, now believed to be misconceptions by Wendy Weiss, were as follows:\n\nCold calling has developed from a form of giving sales pitch using a script into a targeted communication tool. Salespeople call from a list of potential customers that fit certain parameters built to help increase the likelihood of a sale. This modern cold calling, sometimes called \"warm calling\", tries to \"dig deeply to understand\" the potential customer. To avoid being seen as scammers, legitimate businesses use cold calling as an introduction rather than as a means to close the sale.\n\nWarm calling is when the sales people contact prospective customers that may have a relationship with the business, rather than complete strangers. These previous relationships may be mutual friends, trigger events, or signs of interest in the product or service which are often a result of Inbound marketing (e.g. visiting a website, social media interactions, webinars). Warm calling considers the buyer's perspective and acknowledges that not everyone can be a prospective client.\n\nWith the development of newer technology and the internet, cold calling has gained some criticism. Jeffrey Gitomer wrote in a 2010 article for The Augusta Chronicle that \"the return on investment on cold calling is under zero.\" Gitomer believes that cold calling will only annoy customers and will not attract business. Gitomer also believes that referral marketing is a better form of selling and marketing. According to Gitomer, there are \"2.5 basic understandings of a cold call\":\n\nCold calling has also been used by scammers. One such example was when groups of impostors pose as members of the Microsoft support team. The impostors call several homes from a database of Microsoft owners. The Microsoft customers were then told that there was a virus on their computers, and in order to fix it, they had to download a specific program. The program gave access to the computer files for the impostors. In July 2006, a survey conducted by Lactofree determined that cold callers were the most annoying thing in the UK. Cold calling has been a hallmark in the proliferation of boiler room scams selling fraudulent investment and sports betting schemes from Australia's Gold Coast.\n\nMany countries have rules and regulations that limit and control how, when and whom companies can cold call. These rules and regulations are often implemented by government bodies that deal with telecommunication laws in their specific country.\n\nThe United States telecommunication laws are developed and enacted by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC). The FTC aims to \"puts consumers in charge of the number of telemarketing calls they get at home\". The United States, along with many individual states, have enacted various \"Do Not Call\" lists. These lists are based on the national US Do Not Call List which was enacted in 2003. Every month, since January 2005, companies are required by law to check the \"Do Not Call List\" database. They are required to remove the registered numbers from their leads lists. However the \"Do Not Call List\" has certain limitations. Even if a person is registered for the \"Do Not Call List\", certain organizations can still call. These organizations include:\nThe FTC has also set certain regulations on when one can be called. Cold calling can only be done in between 8 a.m and 9 p.m. The caller is also required by law to tell the customer who they are and what organization they represent. This includes clarifying if the organization is a for-profit organization or charity. The salesperson also must reveal all information about the product they are selling. This means that they are legally required not to lie.\n\nMany other government organizations monitor cold calling within their jurisdiction including the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC specializes in monitoring cold calling that deals with stocks, specifically stockbrokers. When investing over the phone, the SEC states that written banking information must be given. This means that an investment cannot be made over the phone.\n\nThe National Do Not Call List (DNCL) is administered by the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC). As with the U.S. version, the rules exclude surveyors, charities, political organizations/candidates, organizations that one has had a business relationship with over the previous 18 months or has otherwise granted permission, as well as newspapers seeking subscribers.\n\nThe United Kingdom has its own version of the \"Do Not Call List\" known as the Telephone Preference Service (TPS). Any citizen of the United Kingdom can register for the list that aims to eliminate its participants from receiving unsolicited calls from organizations including charities and political parties unlike the United States and Canada. TPS was first enacted in 1999 and eventually saw changes in 2003 that ultimately created the Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC Directive) Regulations 2003. While the TPS prevents unsolicited sales and marketing calls, it does not prevent \"recorded/automated messages, silent calls, market research, overseas companies, debt collection, scam calls\" according to the TPS website.\n\nIn 2012, Richard Herman from Middlesex sent an invoice to a company for the time they had kept cold-calling him. He eventually took the company to the small claims court, leading to the company settling out of court. He had been phoned several times by the company despite being listed with the Telephone Preference Service.\n\nAustralia has its own version of the \"Do Not Call List\" known as the Do Not Call Register. The \"Do Not Call Register\" is under the jurisdiction of the Australian Communications and Media Authority (ACMA) which acts as the supreme telecommunications authority in Australia. Registering for the \"Do Not Call Register\" prevents telemarketers and fax marketers from contacting registered members. Registration for the program is free and will last for eight years. Similar to other countries, there are exceptions to the \"Do Not Call Register\". These exceptions include: political parties, charities and educational institutions. The \"Do Not Call Register\" takes effect 30 days after registration.\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland, the \"National Directory Database\" is an index of numbers that cannot be called for the purposes of 'cold calls' and/or sales and advertising. An unsolicited marketing call to a number on the National Directory Database is a criminal offence.\n\nSome financial products are totally not permitted to cold-call, but the practice is generally permitted within a guideline which requires stating the name of the business, full name of the caller, name of the product and intention of solicitation. There is no do-not-call list. The Japanese government's Financial Services Agency maintains a list of known fraudulent entities involved in financial cold-calling scams.\n\nWithin the European Union, the Data Privacy Directive 2002/58/EC requires the governments of its member states to issue laws until June 2007 that prohibit general cold calling. However, the directive allows both an opt-in or an opt-out model, i.e. requiring a national register for phone numbers which either do (opt-in) or do not (opt-out) welcome cold calls.\n\nOn May 25, 2018 the European Union passed the General Data Protection Regulation which imposes obligations onto organizations anywhere, so long as they target or collect data related to people in the EU.\n\nIn India, TRAI (Telecom Regulatory Authority of India) has enacted a regulation which bars telecom providers cold-calling their customers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262799", "title": "George Digby Barker", "text": "George Digby Barker\n\nGeneral Sir George Digby Barker (Chinese Translated Name: 白加; 9 October 1833 – 15 April 1914) was a British soldier and colonial administrator.\n\nBarker was commissioned into the 78th Regiment of Foot in 1853. He served in Anglo-Persian War of 1856 and in the Indian Mutiny of 1857 and was present at Siege of Lucknow.\n\nHe went on to become Adjutant of his Regiment in 1859. He was then made Assistant Adjutant and Quartermaster-General in 1884. Then in 1874 he was made a Professor at the Staff College and in 1877 Assistant Director of Military Education at Headquarters.\n\nHe became Commander of British Troops in China and Hong Kong in 1890. Under his command, the size of the garrison increased by 50 per cent in response to Governor Des Voeux's concerns about the defence of the colony. \n\nBarker was briefly the acting administrator of Hong Kong between May and December 1891. Upon Sir William Robinson's arrival to serve as Governor in December 1891, Barker recommended an extension of Hong Kong's northern frontier. The proposed new frontier would extend from Deep Bay to Mirs Bay, and encompass offshore islands within three miles of Hong Kong. This new frontier would eventually be realised in the 1898 Second Convention of Peking in which Britain leased the New Territories.\n\nBarker was then appointed Governor of Bermuda in 1896 and retired in 1902.\n\nHe was Colonel of the North Staffordshire Regiment from 1905 to 1911 and of the Seaforth Highlanders from 1911 to 1914.\n\nIn retirement he lived at Clare Priory in Suffolk.\n\nBarker Road, where the Residence of the Chief Secretary is located (Victoria House – 15 Barker Road), on The Peak was named after him.\n\nBarker married twice. In 1862 he married Frances Isabella Murray, daughter of George Murray, of Rosemount, Ross-shire. She died in 1900. They had a son and two daughters. One of their daughters, Helena Barker, married in 1891 Francis Henry May, who would become Governor of Hong Kong from 1912 to 1919. The Helena May Institute was named after her.\nGeneral Barker remarried on 30 September 1902 Katherine Weston Elwes, daughter of Edward Golding Elwes, of London.\n"}
{"id": "2262805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262805", "title": "Allianz (arts)", "text": "Allianz (arts)\n\nAllianz was a group of Swiss artists which formed in 1937.\n\nThe Allianz group advocated the concrete art theories of Max Bill with more emphasis on color than their Constructivist counterparts.\n\nTheir first group exhibition, \"Neue Kunst in der Schweiz\", was held in Kunsthalle Basel in 1937 (January 9-February 2) and was followed by a second at the Kunsthaus in Zürich in 1942 and then in 1947 (October 18-November 23). Further shows were held at the Galerie des Eaux Vives in Zürich, starting with two in 1944. The founder and Director of Galerie des Eaux Vives, as well as a prominent founding artist of the Allianz, was , born in St. Gallen in 1908.\n\nThe \"Almanach Neuer Kunst in der Schweiz\", published by the group in 1941, showed reproductions of their works with those of artists such as Paul Klee, Le Corbusier, Gérard Vulliamy and Kurt Seligmann. The publication included texts by Bill, Leuppi, Le Corbusier, Seligmann, Sigfried Giedion, Gérard Vulliamy and others. Editions des Eaux-Vives Zurich (connected with the Galerie) published important illustrated bulletins of Allianz shows with texts by , Johannes Sorge, Max Bill and Ugo Pirogallo.\n\nAllianz exhibitions continued into the 1950s.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262820", "title": "Sun Blade (workstation)", "text": "Sun Blade (workstation)\n\nThe Sun Blade series is a computer workstation line based on the UltraSPARC microprocessor family, developed and sold by Sun Microsystems from 2000 to 2006. The range replaced the earlier Sun Ultra workstation series.\n\nThe Sun Blade 1000, introduced in October 2000, was the first system to use Fireplane as the interconnect between its single or dual processors and the I/O subsystem, a few months ahead of its use in the new Sun Fire server product line.\n\nThe 1500/2500 series came in two variants, the earlier \"red\" series, and the later \"silver\" series. The \"silver\" series were enhanced versions of the \"red\" series - a faster CPU being the key differentiator.\n\nThe Sun Blade series was supplanted by the Sun Java Workstation line in 2004.\n\nThe product line's name was not a reference to \"blade server\" systems, a term not yet in common use in 2000. In 2006, Sun did introduce an unrelated \"Sun Blade\" blade server product line.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262823", "title": "Operation Safehaven", "text": "Operation Safehaven\n\nOperation Safehaven was a fifteen-month investigation conducted by the United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement (\"ICE\") in conjunction with the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Connecticut and the Department of Justice against those affiliated with the warez scene.\n\nIn April 2003, over twenty search warrants were simultaneously executed, resulting in the seizure of dozens of computers and file servers, including what the United States government reported as \"the largest warez site ever seized in the United States to date.\"\n\nU.S. v. Myers et al. (D. Conn.)\n\nTravis Myers, 29, of Yakima, Washington; Terry Katz, 26, of Yorktown Heights, New York; Walter Kapechuk, 55, of Schenectady, New York; and Warren Willsey, 53, of East Berne, New York, all waived indictment and pleaded guilty to charges of Conspiracy to Commit Criminal Copyright Infringement on October 2, 2003. These were the first convictions stemming from the operation. Myers admitted to being a courier and a member of several leading warez groups, including \"DrinkOrDie.\" Katz admitted to being a site operator. Kapechuk admitted to running a site at SUNY Albany. Willsey admitted to assisting Kapechuk. All but Willsey faced maximum sentences of five years. Willsey faced a maximum sentence of one year.\n\nU.S. v. Singh (D. Conn.)\n\nManpreet Singh, 22, of Middleburg Heights, Ohio, pleaded guilty to the charge of conspiracy to commit criminal copyright infringement on February 20, 2004. He admitted to being a courier for the groups \"We Love Warez\" (\"WLW\") and \"pHASE.\" The maximum sentence is five years in prison. He was scheduled to be sentenced in May, 2004.\n\nU.S. v. Perello (E.D. Tex.)\n\nPleaded guilty to a single count of conspiracy to commit criminal copyright infringement on November 21, 2005.\n\nU.S. v. Pine (D. Conn.)\n\nPleaded guilty to a single count of conspiracy to commit criminal copyright infringement on November 22, 2005.\n\nU.S. v. Brink (D. Me.)\n\nKurt M. Brink, 25, of Portland, Maine, pleaded guilty on September 8, 2005 to conspiring to commit criminal copyright infringement. Sentenced to three years of probation, ordered to perform 300 hours of community service, and to pay a fine in the amount of $6,000 on December 12, 2005.\n\nU.S. v. Carter (N.D. Cal.)\n\nPleaded guilty to a single count of conspiracy to commit criminal copyright infringement on December 12, 2005.\n\nU.S. v. Szoke (D. Conn.)\n\nCarole Szoke, 62, of Nazareth, Pennsylvania, pleaded guilty on September 27, 2005. Sentenced to three years of probation, ordered to perform 312 hours of community service, and to pay a fine in the amount of $2,000 on December 22, 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262832", "title": "Whitney High School (Cerritos, California)", "text": "Whitney High School (Cerritos, California)\n\nGretchen A. Whitney High School, called Whitney High School or WHS, is a public school in Cerritos, California serving grades 7–12. It is in the ABC Unified School District.\nAccording to US News Report 2018, Whitney High School is ranked 1st in the state of California, and ranked 14th nationally.\n\nWhitney High School was founded on September 25, 1975 (under the name Gretchen A. Whitney Learning Center) as a community academic learning center. It was created by ABC superintendent Charles Hutchison, who envisioned Whitney to be a vocational school. The school refocused as an academic prep school. As a tribute to Hutchison, the current cafeteria is named the Hutch.\n\nIn 1997, half of Whitney’s parking lot was purchased by a housing contractor to build a gated community adjacent to Whitney. In exchange, Whitney received funds to construct the long-awaited gymnasium. In 2012, Whitney built a multi-media arts center featuring computer labs, and a theater.\n\nIn 2018, Measure BB was passed. The school plans to use their allocated funds to construct a new science building. \n\nEntrance into Whitney is determined through mandatory placement testing. Students leaving elementary school are automatically tested, while students already in middle school or high school will be required to take an additional writing test. \n\nWhitney's curriculum, as of September 2019 includes 15 Advanced Placement courses and 35 Honors courses, though students who attend Whitney High School are automatically placed in honors courses, except for math and physical education courses.\n\nIn 1991, Whitney was recognized with the Department of Education's National Recognition Award as a Blue Ribbon School. Senator John F. Seymour spoke on the US Senate floor to recognize the school. Whitney is one of the three Blue Ribbon Lighthouse Schools Charter Members. The school was again honored as a Blue Ribbon school in 1998, 2003, 2008, and 2014. Whitney became the first school to receive 5 Blue Ribbon Awards. President George W. Bush's brother Neil, co-founder of an educational software company, has visited the campus several times, as he put it, \"because of the respect the staff has for students. I’ve never seen anything like it. Every school should be this way.\"\n\nWhitney has been honored with the California Distinguished School title six times: 1986, 1990, 1992, 1996, 2003, and 2007.\n\nIn 2005, the Associated Press rated Whitney High the best high school in California, based on its Academic Performance Index (API) score.\n\nWhitney High has been featured in a special report done by Fox News in 2005. The report on mentoring featured Whitney's \"Big Buddy/Little Buddy\" system. Furthermore, CBS News's \"Weekend Journal\" also reported on Whitney, focusing on the public high school's academic achievements.\n\nIn 2006, the school was on Newsweek’s \"America’s Best High School\" list. Whitney was not included in the top 100 high schools because \"so many of [Whitney's] students score well above average on the SAT and ACT\". However, Newsweek did include Whitney in \"The Public Elites\" section, and labeled Whitney as \"a comprehensive school for high performers\". Newsweek again recognized Whitney in the May 23, 2007 \"America’s Best High School\" edition. Similar to the 2006 edition, Whitney was included as 1 of the 19 \"The Public Elite\" high schools and was labeled as an \"award-winning school with special emphasis on college admissions\".\n\nThe passing rate for the California High School Exit Exam (CAHSEE) for Whitney students is 100%. Whitney received a six-year accreditation from the Western Association of Schools and Colleges (WASC) in 2004.\n\nBusiness Week declared Whitney as having the \"Best Overall Academic Performance\" in 2009 for California.\n\nU.S. News & World Report ranked Whitney High School as the No. 12 high school in the nation in the November 30, 2007 edition. Whitney was ranked No. 10 in the December 15, 2008 edition. Whitney was ranked the 3rd best high school in America for 2010 in the December 10, 2009 edition. Whitney was 1st in the state of California for 2016, and rank 19th nationally. Whitney was 1st in the state of California for 2018. \n\nNewsweek ranked Whitney High School as the No. 4 high school in the nation in September 2014.\n\nWhitney is a school with students from predominantly Asian heritage. In the 2013-2014 academic school year, the majority demographic group, as reported by the State of California, was Asian with 71.5% of enrollment. Filipinos made up 10.9% of enrollment, Hispanics of any race were 8.6%, whites (not Hispanic) 4.7%, African Americans 2.4%, Pacific Islanders 0.5%, Native American or Alaska Native (not Hispanic) 0.2%, and two or more races (not Hispanic) 1.1%.\n\nWhitney High is part of the CIF Division IV, and the mascot is the Wildcat. In its earliest years WHS did not have any school athletics at all, and they gradually added small sports teams in later years. \n\nWhitney High is now part of the newly formed 605 league, Division 3, CIF Southern Section. \n\nThe WHS Yearbook won First Place and Outstanding Theme at the 2013 American Scholastic Press Association Yearbook Competition.\n\nWHS sponsors interscholastic sports and co-curricular activities including student government, service organizations, broadcast journalism, yearbook, marching band, drill team, pep squad. The school recently received funds to build a media center.\n\nWHS's award-winning robotics team participates in FIRST: For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology, an organization founded in 1989 by Dean Kamen and Woodie Flowers to motivate young people in their schools and communities to reach an appreciation of science and technology. Currently the team competes in the FIRST Tech Challenge (FTC), and FIRST LEGO League (FLL). Students also participate in outreach programs in robotics with local elementary schools, community groups, and summer RoboCamps.\n\nIn addition, students in the Model United Nations program have won several awards for their performances at conferences such as the West Coast Invitational, Mission Viejo, and UCLA MUN. The school hosts a MUN conference every May.\n\nStudents have the opportunity to discuss and debate the most pressing national issues in the Junior Statesmen of America (JSA) program with other students from southern California.\n\n\"It's Finally Friday\" (a.k.a. \"IFF\") is a televised show broadcast over the school's television network every Friday, from September 2003 and until June 2005, and brought back from 2006–2008.\n\nThe Whitney Independent News Network was founded during the 2009 – 2010 school year by teacher Eric Gutierrez.\n\nIn 2009, the school ceased publishing Aspects, the student newspaper. In 2018, the school newspaper was brought back by the Newspaper Club and is called The Wildcat's Tale.\n\n\"Whitney High School Live\" is Whitney's news program that airs everyday during homeroom. It began in the 2014-2015 school year and still runs to this day. It was founded and made possible by teacher Rod Ziolkowski.\n\nWhitney High is the subject of \"School of Dreams\", a book written by the Pulitzer prize-winning journalist Edward Humes and published in September 2003. Humes spent the 2001–2002 school year at Whitney teaching a writing workshop, and used his case study of Whitney High to bring national attention to the pressures endured by the students of America's magnet schools.\n\nOf the 165 students in the class of 2011, 46 percent went to the University of California, 1 percent went to military academies, 30 percent went to private or out-of-state colleges, 16 percent went to California State Universities, and 7 percent went to community colleges.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262834", "title": "Nestlé Milk Chocolate", "text": "Nestlé Milk Chocolate\n\nNestlé Milk Chocolate was a chocolate bar consisting of milk chocolate, produced by Nestlé. Nestlé Milk Chocolate was sold in many countries around the world, including the United States and Canada. It has now been discontinued by Nestlé.\n\nAccording to a source, \"Nestlé milk chocolate bars were first introduced in the US in 1919.\" Another source claims, \"The original milk chocolate formula [was] invented in Vevey, Switzerland, in 1875 by Henri Nestle.\" According to Nestle, the bar was discontinued in 2016.\n\nNestlé Milk Chocolate was created as a competitor to the more-established, and North American chocolate bar segment-leader Hershey bar, and was even created in a similar form as their competitor. The closest Nestlé product to them is the Nestlé Crunch, which is very similar to Nestlé Milk Chocolate, the main difference being that Nestlè Crunch has puffed rice, while Nestlé Milk Chocolate does not. A similar product, Yorkie made by Nestlé, is not to be confused with Nestlé Milk Chocolate as it is a completely different product, as the Yorkie bar was originally created by British firm Rowntree of York to compete with Cadbury Dairy Milk.\nNestlé also produces many other brands of chocolate/syrup.\n\nNestlé Milk Chocolate bars were available in 1.45-oz (41.1-g) bars, as well as in boxes of 24.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262843", "title": "Stephanie Miller", "text": "Stephanie Miller\n\nStephanie Catherine Miller (born September 29, 1961) is an American political commentator, comedian, and host of \"The Stephanie Miller Show\", a liberal talk radio program produced in Los Angeles, California, by WYD Media Management and syndicated nationally by Westwood One. In 2017, \"Talkers Magazine\" ranked her the 23rd most important radio talk show host in America. Miller has leveraged her talk show via various platforms including online, as well as via her \"Sexy Liberal Tour\" live comedy show.\n\nMiller was born in Washington, D.C., the daughter of Stephanie (Wagner) and former U.S. Representative William E. Miller, who was Barry Goldwater's running mate in the 1964 presidential election and a Chairman of the Republican National Committee. After her father left the United States Congress when Miller was three years old, her family to her father's hometown of Lockport, New York. She is the youngest of four children. Her two older sisters, Libby and Mary, are almost 20 years older than her. She also has an older brother, William Jr. Her brother ran unsuccessfully for the United States House of Representatives from upstate New York, in 1992 and 1994.\n\nMiller's first efforts at comedy were in high school, performing in a sketch, \"Torn Between Two Lovers,\" requiring a specially-sewn dress with panels that boys ripped open every time a chorus of the song was heard. Recalling the performance, Miller says, \"I got my first laugh, and that was it. It's like a drug. It's always been my only drug.\". After completing her secondary education in private Catholic schools, graduating from DeSales High School in Lockport in 1979, Miller attended the University of Southern California, earning a degree in theatre. Her original plan after college \"was to be Carol Burnett.\" On September 29, 2015, Burnett called Miller on her radio show to wish her happy birthday. On the phone, Miller told Burnett she always wanted to be her, \"but it didn't work out. She made me cry when she said I shouldn't be Carol Burnett because there's only one Stephanie Miller and nobody does what I do. I was bawling.\"\n\nMiller's first job after graduation from college was at the Laugh Factory, the legendary Hollywood comedy club, working for club owner Jamie Masada, answering phones, putting names on the marquee, cocktail waitressing, and other tasks, while also performing stand-up at the club. When Miller moved back to upstate New York a few years later, she worked at Yuk Yuk's Comedy Club in Buffalo, living in a $125 per month apartment over a pizza parlor near the club. While working in radio in the 1980s and 1990s, she also performed at many comedy clubs around New York City, Chicago, and Los Angeles. She appeared twice on \"A & E's An Evening at the Improv\", on the A&E TV Network, on August 5, 1988, and March 3, 1989. She was also the first comedian to perform when the Chicago Improv club opened. In addition, she performed a one-woman Off-Broadway show while living in New York City in the early 1990s. Miller also performed at the Laugh Factory when she moved back to Los Angeles from New York City in 2003. Miller says she has a talk with her late father every time she is about to face an audience.\n\nMiller initially set out to be an actress, and for many years had hoped to star in her own sitcom, and also expressed interest in doing film. Early in her career, Miller had several small acting jobs, such as appearing as a nun in the 1984 TV movie \"Shattered Vows\", and a brief appearance as a nurse on \"General Hospital\". After gaining prominence as a radio and TV host, she had roles where she essentially played herself, as in the movie \"View from the Top\", and an episode of the TV series \"\". Her most significant acting role was in the 1997 comedy film \"Just Write\". During the late 1990s Miller also explored doing a television sitcom with producer Barry Kemp, who cast her in a pilot for ABC.\n\nMiller did not plan a career in radio, As she has noted, \"I always say radio was an accident until they started paying me a lot of money and then it wasn't an accident anymore.\"\n\nMiller began her radio career after her father's death in 1983, when she returned to Lockport from California. Her first radio experience was delivering humorous bits on Sandy Beach's morning show on Hot 104 WNYS in Buffalo, New York, which included doing impressions of Katharine Hepburn. She then took an on-air job at radio station WLVL in Lockport, where she went from evenings to afternoon drive to mornings in three months. She then sent a tape to Brother Wease (Alan Levin), the morning drive host at WCMF in Rochester, New York. Levin \"hired her as soon as I heard her tape.\", and in 1985 she went to WCMF to work as \"Sister Sleaze\" on the \"Brother Wease Show\". Speaking about Miller, Levin has been very complimentary, noting \"She's very manic, very bright, very funny and creative.\" While working with Miller, in reply to friends asking Levin \"how come you give that girl so much mike?\" he responded: \"Because she's phenomenal. Don't try and compete; let people fly. I let her fly, and we had a ball.\" After Rochester, Miller progressed to larger markets, as morning co-host at radio station WCKG in Chicago with John Howell from early 1988 to October 1989, and as morning co-host with Howard Hoffman at Hot 97 WQHT in New York City for three years until 1993.\n\nIn 1993, Miller headed back to Los Angeles to develop a sitcom for Warner Brothers that never materialized. Instead, in 1994 she began her talk radio career when was hired by talk station KFI in Los Angeles, initially for her own weekend show which quickly became a weeknight radio show where Miller achieved high ratings. During the show, as she had on her earlier stations in Rochester and New York City, Miller would sometimes call her mother (also named Stephanie) in upstate New York on the phone, and her mother would also co-host when she came to visit in-person. Miller's mother would later do the same on her radio show at KABC. On her show on KFI, Miller began to incorporate political talk. \"It was the first time I had done talk radio, and I was like, 'Oh, you mean just me talk, with no music?'\" she recalls. \"I was like, blah, blah, blah. Oh, I still have 10 minutes left. That's when I guess I started to get political, and I started to realize more of my liberal leanings.\" She states that her turning point in terms of being outspoken about politics came in August 1992, when she heard Pat Buchanan's gay-bashing \"culture wars\" speech at the Republican Convention. \"It was just so mean. It changed everything for me.\"\n\nIn the autumn of 1995, Miller became one of the few women to host her own late night television talk show, \"The Stephanie Miller Show\", syndicated by Buena Vista Television. Unlike other late night television talk shows, the show had no band, no desk, a studio audience with nightclub-style seating instead of theatre-style seating, conversations with the audience via video phone, and pre-taped sketches starring Miller as real-life characters. Anne Beatts, formerly a writer on \"Saturday Night Live\", was Executive Producer and a writer for the show. Beatts enjoyed working on the show with Miller, and liked the immediacy of a daily talk show. However, in December 1995, the show was cancelled after only 13 weeks. Danny Bonaduce filled in for Miller the last week the show was on the air. Reflecting on the experience a few years later for an article in \"The Buffalo News\", Miller said, \"I think 13 weeks is a pretty tough shot for any unknown in late night. I felt like my dad must have felt in the 1964 campaign: 'I have no shot in hell, but I'll just give it a try.\". Comedian and voice actor Carlos Alazraqui, who later worked with Miller on her KABC radio show, and is now a regular guest on her current radio program (\"Coffee with Carlos\"), was part of the \"Irregular Regulars\" sketch comedy group on Miller's television show.\n\nStating that \"After a year in the Federal Talk Show Relocation Program, I decided to come home to radio,\", Miller returned to Los Angeles radio in June 1997, first doing afternoons at KTZN (\"The Zone\") and then moving to evenings at KABC. It was during this period that she first began working with Chris Lavoie, who would later be her long-time Executive Producer on her current syndicated radio show which began in 2004. Impressionist Jim Ward, who is on Miller's current radio show, also was with her on KABC, along with Carlos Alazraqui. The show was syndicated in September 1998 on approximately 20 stations. KABC canceled Miller's show in March 2000. The show continued in syndication on other stations for another week, but was then canceled completely. According to Miller, the firing from KABC was for the \"somewhat racy content of my show\", and for being \"too liberal\".\n\nAlong with her radio show, in 1997 for approximately a year, Miller began co-hosting the CNBC television show \"Equal Time\", as the liberal counterpoint to conservative Bay Buchanan. She later said that she didn't enjoy her time on \"Equal Time\" \"very much\" and that Buchanan would only talk to her when the camera was on. She left \"Equal Time\" in 1998 to become the original host and a writer for the Fox Family channel program \"Show Me the Funny\", until 1999. In February 2000, shortly before her departure from KABC, Miller began hosting the Oxygen Channel's revival of the game show \"I've Got a Secret\". After her radio show on the ABC Radio Today network ended, Miller moved back to the New York City area, and worked for the Oxygen Channel. In addition to hosting the revival of \"I've Got a Secret\", which ran for 120 episodes until 2001, she also co-hosted with May Lee, Oxygen's weekday 30-minute TV magazine show, \"Pure Oxygen\", from 2000 to 2002. According to May Lee, she and Miller \"made a pretty good team - she as the funny, goofy half; me as the serious, sophisticated other half. We worked well together and understood our respective roles on the show.\"\n\nAfter leaving Oxygen, Miller returned to Los Angeles in 2003, and shopped a pilot that she co-produced, which she described as a cross between \"The Carol Burnett Show\" and \"Politically Incorrect\". The pilot was not picked up. From 2004 to 2005, Miller also served as a frequent panelist on the PAX TV game show \"Balderdash\", which was hosted by Miller's friend Elayne Boosler. In 2004, Miller was initially offered the original morning show at Air America, but the offer was withdrawn, and the slot was taken by \"Morning Sedition\", with Marc Maron, Mark Riley, and Sue Ellicott. In 2006, CNN discussed with Miller the possibility of a television show, however the show was never developed.\n\nOn September 7, 2004, \"The Stephanie Miller Show\" was launched by Democracy Radio and WYD Media Management.\n\nMiller's show's audience has grown to approximately 6 million weekly listeners (2017). She has been ranked #2 in Los Angeles right behind \"The Rush Limbaugh Show\". In 2017, \"Talkers Magazine\" ranked her the 23rd most important radio talk show host in America. The 2014 Talkers Heavy Hundred list ranked Stephanie Miller as the 22nd most important radio talk show host as well as the #3 radio talk host in the LGBT category in the United States market. In 2011, Miller won the \"Talkers Magazine\" Judy Jarvis Memorial Award for Outstanding Contributions to Talk Radio by a Woman.\n\nSince 2010, TV and video simulcasts of \"The Stephanie Miller Show\" have been broadcast through numerous outlets, including Ustream (2010-2013), Current TV (2012-2013), and Free Speech TV (2014-now).\n\nIn 2007, Miller launched a spoof Presidential campaign with CC Goldwater, the granddaughter of Barry Goldwater. Miller's father ran with Barry Goldwater as Vice-President in 1964. The 2008 campaign was dubbed \"Goldwater/Miller '08...ex-Republican girls gone wild!\". Commenting on the campaign, Miller stated, \"\"We are the ticket of low expectations and morals and are damn proud of it too.\" During the campaign, it was noted that with over $345 cash on hand Goldwater wanted to buy some media time in the 4:00 to 4:15 AM time slot in Kern County, California.\n\nStarting with the first show on April 23, 2011 in Madison, Wisconsin, Miller's live \"Sexy Liberal Comedy Tour\" has periodically toured the country to sold out houses and very high acclaim. After Donald Trump became president, the tour was renamed the \"Sexy Liberal Resistance Tour\". The current cast includes Miller, John Fugelsang, and the comedy duo Frangela, for an evening of liberal humor and commentary. The shows also have special guests. The comedy album, \"Stephanie Miller's Sexy Liberal Tour, Vol. 1\", was released in December 2011. It became the first album to reach #1 on the comedy charts for iTunes, Amazon.com, and Billboard. On the day of its release, it was the #2 most downloaded album on Amazon and remained on the Billboard Comedy Album charts for 6 weeks. A DVD of the November 2016 pre-election show in Los Angeles is also available. In September 2012, Current TV broadcast a behind-the-scenes documentary about the \"Sexy Liberal Tour\", including the origins of the \"Sexy Liberal Tour\" and never-before-seen footage and commentary from Miller and her then tour co-hosts John Fugelsang, Hal Sparks, and Aisha Tyler, as they toured the country.\n\nThe idea for the \"Sexy Liberal Tour\" originated in-studio during a live radio broadcast with Miller and John Fugelsang in 2011. The goal was to do a concert in Madison, Wisconsin to raise money for the recall of Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker. Tickets went on sale two weeks prior to the show date and were sold out within four days.\n\nOn July 24, 2016, during a performance of the \"Sexy Liberal Comedy Tour\" in Philadelphia in conjunction with the 2016 Democratic National Convention, Miller fell off the stage at the Walnut Street Theatre, falling into the orchestra pit. John Fugelsang jumped into the orchestra pit after Miller to check on her. Civil rights lawyer Gloria Allred who was at the show, also came to her aid. Fugelsang and Frangela finished up the performance without her. Miller missed the next day's radio show, but was back on the air on Tuesday July 26.\n\nOn September 12, 2014, Miller began \"Stephanie Miller's Happy Hour\" podcast, released weekly via paid subscription. This uncensored show of original content features many of the regulars and guests from her radio show, and other celebrities and comedians, typically consuming alcohol (as with any other happy hour) while they chat. Video versions of the \"Happy Hour\" are also available. The concept was suggested by Travis Bone, one of Miller's former producers, who thought listeners might like to hear and see what it's like to be at a party at Stephanie's house. It also debuted on the Billboard charts on February 18, 2015 at #2, and was dubbed by Billboard as its \"Hot Shot Debut\". \"The Best of Stephanie Miller's Happy Hour, Volume 2\", released in November 2015, repeated the feat.\n\nIn 2016, Miller released \"Sexy Liberal! Of Me I Sing\", a combination of memoir and political humor. It was initially released as an e-book where it immediately became #1 on Amazon in political, humor, and memoirs, and later was released in paperback.\n\nMiller lives in the Los Feliz section of Los Angeles with her Great Pyrenees, Fred and Jamie. She has never been married and has no children, and often jokingly refers to herself as \"a childless loser\". In the 1990s, she had celebrity dates with parody songwriter \"Weird Al\" Yankovic and Barry Williams of Greg Brady fame.\n\nWhile she had been open about her sexuality with family and friends for many years, in 2010 in the midst of the furor over gay marriage and Proposition 8 in California, she decided to publicly announce that she is a lesbian. On her August 13, 2010, radio show, Miller said, \"I've reached my personal tipping point to say I am a gay woman.\" She then movingly shared details about her private life and personal journey in deciding to publicly disclose that she is gay. Miller credited country singer Chely Wright with helping her in coming out. Commenting in an interview with the \"San Diego Gay and Lesbian News\" on her decision, Miller said, \"I realized that I can't authentically talk to [my listeners] about these issues anymore without walking in my truth. I can't just stand on the sidelines as an unbiased observer.\" After Miller came out as gay, she recorded a video for the It Gets Better Project, whose mission is to communicate to lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender youth that it gets better. In the video she discussed how she had lost 15 years of closeness with her family because she mistakenly thought they wouldn't accept her as gay. The day after Miller came out, at a town hall in Seattle, Washington, a 16-year-old girl and her family came up to Miller \"and they were all crying. They thanked me and told me I had given their daughter the courage to come out today. We all hugged and cried. And I told the young girl that it's going to be okay now; you're going to have a good life.\"\n\nMiller has been public about having plastic surgery, stating \"As it turns out, you \"can\" fool Mother Nature!! She's not that bright.\" Miller's plastic surgery includes a short-scar lift, a forehead lift, under-eye peels, a permanent nose job, and lip and eye lining.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262866", "title": "Shoulder sleeve insignia (United States Army)", "text": "Shoulder sleeve insignia (United States Army)\n\nA shoulder sleeve insignia (often abbreviated SSI), is an embroidered patch worn on some uniforms of the United States Army. It is used by major formations of the U.S. Army; each formation has a unique formation patch. The U.S. Army is unique among the U.S. Armed Forces in that all soldiers are required to wear the patch of their headquarters as part of their military uniforms.\n\nShoulder sleeve insignia receive their name from the fact that they are most commonly worn on the upper left sleeve of the Army Combat Uniform (ACU) and Army Green uniform. However, they can be placed on other locations, notably on the side of a helmet. Shoulder sleeve insignia worn on the upper right sleeve of Army uniforms denote former wartime service. These \"combat patches\" are worn on the ACU but are no longer worn on the Army Service Uniform. Instead, a 2 inch metal replica is worn on the right breast pocket and is officially known as the Combat Service Identification Badge (CSIB).\n\nShoulder sleeve insignia were often designed with intricate designs including bright colors, when created. Because these bright colors and designs risk standing out when a soldier is in combat or in hiding, the shoulder sleeve insignia in its color form was commonly only worn on the dress uniform or service uniform when a soldier was not in combat. However, with the retirement of the Army Green Uniform in 2015, the full-color SSI was discontinued and was replaced with a CSIB. For combat uniforms, \"subdued\" versions have been created for wear on the battlefield. After a few years of retirement, the full-color SSI returned with the \"pinks and greens\" uniform that was re-introduced in the late 2010s.\n\n\"Full color\" SSI were only worn on the brown service coat during the 1940s, and on the green \"Class A\" uniform and on the OG-107 during the late 1950s and early 1960s. Formerly, full color SSI were also worn on the \"full color\" (white letters on black or dark blue material) Military Police brassard, worn by MPs while wearing the green \"Class A\" service uniform or while wearing subdued field uniforms (BDU or DCU) in a garrison environment. However, with the ACU, the MP brassard was replaced by a rectangular patch made of fabric or infrared-reflective material, reading \"MP\". In one notable exception, the U.S. 1st Infantry Division wore full-color SSI on their BDUs and ACUs for a time, before that too was replaced with a subdued version.\n\nThe subdued version of the SSI created for the Battle Dress Uniform (BDU) features patches that are primarily olive, dark brown and black, to match the BDU. In general, this version is obsolete because the Army phased out the BDU in the late 2000s in favor of the Army Combat Uniform (ACU).\n\nThe subdued version created for the Desert Camouflage Uniform (DCU) is primarily tan and \"spice\" brown, to match the uniform's design. This version is also obsolete, as the Army phased out DCUs in favor of ACUs.\n\nThe subdued version created for the Army Combat Uniform is the version widely used in the field today. Since the Army-wide adoption of the ACU, SSI for the ACU have been developed. These SSI are primarily foliage green, light brown, and black, though a few patches also feature red and maroon colors for some details. Unlike previous patches, the ACU SSI are velcro-backed, designed to attach to the velcro pockets on the shoulder of the uniform, instead of being sewn on. This makes them easier to remove and replace.\n\nSince the development of the Operational Camouflage Pattern (OCP) uniform (commonly known as MultiCam as it is derived from Crye Precision's proprietary pattern) new SSI have been procured where the \"Foliage\" green of the ACU SSI is replaced by \"Bagby\" green. Velcro remains the method for attaching the SSI to the uniform.\n\nThe SSI is typically worn on the left upper arm, just below the uniform's shoulder seam on all but the ACU. The most common place for the SSI to be worn on the ACU is on the upper sleeve, attached using a velcro backing, however it is also sometimes worn on other places, notably when the soldier's body armor covers the shoulders, such as the shoulder pads of interceptor body armor, which covers the upper arm. Some units (such as the 3rd Infantry Division) also wear SSIs on their helmets. SSI are also occasionally worn on the backpacks or rucksacks of soldiers, but this is not standard practice and is usually personal preference.\n\nWhich SSI is worn depends on the chain of command that the soldier's formation is a part of. Usually, the soldier wears the SSI of their division or separate brigade, but if they fall under the command of a different division, they must wear the SSI of that division. The First Army has directed that all subordinate brigades wear the First Army SSI instead of their own authorized brigade SSI.\n\nThose soldiers who are combat veterans are authorized permanent wear of the SSI of the unit they fought with on their right shoulder. This shoulder sleeve insignia recognizes \"former wartime service\" and is frequently called a \"combat patch\". Per Army Regulation 670-1, a soldier is authorized to wear the SSI of their higher headquarters. This is not dependent on whether or not the higher headquarters deployed, or to whom the soldier was attached throughout his/her deployment. Exceptions have been made for operations of relatively short duration such as service in the Dominican Republic, Panama and Grenada.\n\nWith the transformation of the U.S. Army into a brigade-centered force, the SSI that soldiers may wear for wartime service has grown. Where soldiers once fought only under the command of their home division headquarters, this is no longer always the case. Early in the Global War on Terrorism, soldiers could earn the wartime service patch of several units during a single deployment according to their chain of command. Under current policy, soldiers may only earn one SSI per deployment.\n\nEntire formations of soldiers are rarely deployed to the same command structure. For example, a battalion from a separate support brigade may be attached to a brigade combat team during on deployment, which, in turn, would be attached to a different division headquarters. It is a misconception that in that deployment, soldiers in the battalion could earn three patches at once; the patch of their regular headquarters (the separate brigade), the patch of the brigade combat team that they were attached to, and the patch of the division that the brigade combat team was attached to. In actuality, the regulation states that soldiers will wear the shoulder sleeve insignia of former wartime service of the lowest deployed echelon authorized its own distinctive SSI, which applies to divisions, separate brigades, and a handful of battalions. After March 27, 2007 the policy was changed to allow units of company level and higher to wear the SSI of their regular headquarters as a combat patch. This policy change also means that units above company level no longer receive multiple combat patches for single deployments, in turn simplifying what combat patch soldiers are actually entitled to wear.\n\nAlthough all U.S. Army army groups, field armies, and corps have SSI, they do not award combat patches of these to all soldiers serving under them. These combat patches are usually only given to soldiers who serve the corps or army headquarters directly, and not one of the subordinate units. \n\nThere is no time-in-theater requirement for wear of the SSIFWTS and orders are not created to authorize it. U.S. soldiers are also not required to wear a SSIFWTS, and if they can wear more than one SSIFWTS then soldiers can alternate from one to another, but they cannot wear more than one at a time.\n\nThe 81st Infantry Division \"Wildcat\" is generally agreed to have been first U.S. Army unit authorized an SSI. In 1918, during World War I, the 81st Division sailed for France after training at Fort Jackson, South Carolina. On their left shoulder the men of the division wore an olive drab felt patch with the silhouette of a wildcat - after Wildcat Creek, a stream that flows through Fort Jackson. When men of the other fighting divisions challenged the right of 81st soldiers to wear the patch, General John J. Pershing ruled that the 81st could keep this distinctive insignia. He also suggested that other divisions adopt shoulder patches of their own. This patch was officially adopted by the U.S. Army on October 19, 1918. The first patches were often primitive but by World War II, the manufacture was regulated.\n\nBy World War II, all army groups, field armies, corps, and divisions, as well as all major Army commands, had unique SSI. These SSI would often be created with symbolism alluding to the unit's formation. Examples include the 82nd Airborne Division, which included an \"AA\" on its patch alluding to the \"All-American\" soldiers from every state that made it up, and the 29th Infantry Division, which included blue and grey to allude to soldiers that made it up being from states on both sides of the American Civil War.\n\nMost US formations had unique patches which varied greatly in size and makeup, with the exception of U.S. armored divisions (as well as 1st Armored Corps and the U.S. Army Armor Center & School), all of which adopted the same patch (a yellow, red and blue triangle with a symbol for armor in the middle). Each division and I Armored Corps then included its number in the upper yellow portion of the patch to distinguish it. The SSIs of those armored units which survived into the Cold War became irregular pentagons (some units later than others) with the addition of rectangular section at the bottom, bearing the division's nickname or \"U.S. Army Armor Center\".\nSubdued patches and insignia were introduced during the Vietnam War and were made mandatory for wear on the field uniform starting July 1, 1970.\n\nSSIs are \"generally\" authorized only for units commanded by a general officer. In the early 1960s, separate armor regiments began creating SSI, and the number of separate brigades increased. Today, most separate brigades have their own SSI, but those brigades permanently assigned to divisions do not. A handful of smaller units have SSI (including the U.S. Army's ranger battalions [all of which have identical SSIs apart from the number], Trial Defense Service, and Headquarters & Headquarters Company, U.S. Army), but most units of battalion level and smaller do not have SSIs of their own. A handful of SSIs are designated for use by units which are not under a unified command wearing that SSI; these include Special Forces, Department of the Army Staff Support, and the SSI designated for soldiers assigned outside of DOD (e.g., military attachés).\n\n\nDalessandro, Robert J. & Knapp, Michael G., \"Organization and Insignia of the American Expeditionary Forces, 1917–1923\", (Atglen, PA: Schiffer Publishing) 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262883", "title": "Lection", "text": "Lection\n\nA lection, also called the lesson, is a reading from scripture in liturgy.\n\nThe custom of reading the books of Moses in the synagogues on Sabbath is a very ancient one. Since the prophetic books were written after the books of Moses, readings from them began later, and were common at the time of Jesus. This element in synagogue worship was taken over with others into the Christian divine service, as may be gathered from passages in the gospels such as St Luke 4:16–20 and 16:29. During early Christianity, readings began to be made from the writings of the Apostles and evangelists as the New Testament canon developed. Mention of this is found within the New Testament itself, for example in Colossians 4:16 and in First Thessalonians 5:27.\n\nThe oldest manuscripts of the Gospels have marginal marks, and sometimes actual interpolations, which can only be accounted for as indicating the beginnings and endings of liturgical lessons.\n\nFrom the 2nd century onwards references multiply, though the earlier references do not prove the existence of a fixed lectionary or order of lessons, but rather point the other way. Justin Martyr, describing divine worship in the middle of the 2nd century says: \"On the day called Sunday all who live in cities or in the country gather together to one place, and the memoirs of the Apostles, or the writings of the Prophets are read as long as time permits\" (\"Apol.\" i. cap. 67). Tertullian about half a century later makes frequent reference to the reading of Holy Scripture in public worship (\"Apol.\" ~9; \"De praescript.\" 36; \"De amina\", 9).\n\nThe canons of Hippolytus, written in the first half of the 3rd century says, \"Let presbyters, subdeacons and readers, and all the people assemble daily in the church at time of cockcrow, and betake themselves to prayers, to psalms and to the reading of the Scriptures, according to the command of the Apostles, until I come attend to reading\" (canon xxi).\n\nThere are traces of fixed lessons coming into existence in the course of the 3rd century. Origen refers to the Book of Job being read in Holy Week (\"Commentaries on Job\", lib. i.). In the 4th century such references are frequent. John Cassian (c. 380) states that throughout Egypt the Psalms were divided into groups of twelve, and that after each group there followed two lessons, one from the Old Testament and one from the New Testament (\"De caenob. inst.\" ii. 4), implying but not absolutely stating that there was a fixed order of such lessons just as there was of the Psalms. St Basil the Great mentions fixed lessons on certain occasions taken from Isaiah, Proverbs, St Matthew and Acts (Hom. xiii. \"De bapt.\"). From Chrysostom (Horn. lxiii. in Act. etc.), and Augustine (Tract. vi. in Joann. &c.) both state that Genesis was read in Lent, Job and Jonah in Passion Week, the Acts of the Apostles in Eastertide, lessons on the Passion on Good Friday, and lessons on the Resurrection on Easter Day.\n\nIn the Apostolic Constitutions (ii. 57, ca. 380) a service is described which is required of the church. First come two lessons from the Old Testament by a reader, the whole of the Old Testament being made use of except the books of the Apocrypha. The Psalms of David are then to be sung. Next the Acts of the Apostles and the Epistles of Paul are to be read. Finally the four Gospels are to be read by a deacon or a priest. Whether the selections were ad libitum or according to a fixed table of lessons is not mentioned.\n\nThe Third Council of Carthage (397) forbade anything but Holy Scripture to be read in church. This rule has been adhered to so far as the liturgical epistle and gospel, and occasional additional lessons in the Roman Missal are concerned, but in the divine office, on feasts when nine lessons are read at matins, only the first three lessons are taken from Holy Scripture, the next three being taken from the sermons of ecclesiastical writers, and the last three from expositions of the day's gospel; but sometimes the lives or Passions of the saints, or of some particular saints, were substituted for any or all of these breviary lessons.\n\nNothing in the shape of a lectionary is extant older than the 8th century, though there is evidence that Claudianus Marnercus made one for the church at Vienna in 450, and that Musaeus made one for the church at Marseille ca. 458.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262891", "title": "Pauri", "text": "Pauri\n\nPauri is a town and a municipal board in Pauri Garhwal district in the Indian state of Uttarakhand. Pauri is the seat of the Divisional Commissioner of the Garhwal Division. Beautiful valleys, azure sky, and deep gorges makes Pauri a well suited summer destination.\n\nPauri is located at . It is located 1,814 metres above sea level. Pauri provides a panoramic view of the snow-covered Himalayan peaks of Nanda Devi and Trisul, Gangotri Group, Thalaiya-Sagar, Nilkantha, Bandar Poonch, Swargarohini, Kedarnath, Kharcha Kund, Satopanth, Chaukhamba, Ghoriparvat, Haathi Parvat, Sumeru, etc. \nThe errand across Kandoliya-Tekka stretch along evergreen deodar trees is worth walking. The town is visited by tourists, researchers and students from across the world. The place is paradise for trekkers, paragliding enthusiasts and nature lovers.\n\nThe region has a sub-temperate to temperate climate, which remains pleasant throughout the year. The climate of Pauri is very cold in winters and the region experiences low to moderate snowfall in the months of January or February. The climate is soothing in summer when flowers bloom in the nearby forests and tourists flock to town. In rainy season the climate is very cool and lush greenery covers the town.\n\nAccording to the Census India 2011 the Pauri Nagar Palika Parishad has population of 25,440 of which 13,090 are males while 12,350 are females. Population of Children with age of 0-6 is 2766 which is 10.87% of total population of Pauri (NPP). In Pauri Nagar Palika Parishad, Female Sex Ratio is of 943 against state average of 963. Moreover, Child Sex Ratio in Pauri is around 877 compared to Uttarakhand state average of 890. Literacy rate of Pauri city is 92.18% higher than state average of 78.82%. In Pauri, Male literacy is around 95.74% while female literacy rate is 88.44%. Pauri Nagar Palika Parishad has total administration over 6,127 houses to which it supplies basic amenities like water and sewerage.\n\nPauri had a population of 24,742. Males constitute 53% of the population and females 47%. In Pauri, 12% of the population is under 6 years of age.\n\nThe language most commonly used in Pauri Garhwal is Garhwali.\n\nThis is one of the most premier institutions of the town providing English medium education up to 12th class under CBSE board. Located amidst the beautiful deodar and Oak trees makes it a perfect place for educating the young minds. Currently, it is being run from a temporary campus in Kandoliya but a permanent building is all set in Siroli village which is 8km from the town.\n\nGovind Ballabh Pant Engineering College (GBPEC) is an autonomous State Government Higher Technical Institution. It was created in 1989 to honour the great Indian Freedom Fighter Padma Shri, Govind Ballabh Pant. The institute is located in serenity and purity of the Garhwal Himalayas, at a height of 1800m (approx 5905 ft.) above Sea Level and overlooks the Great Himalayan Range on its East flank. The college offers courses like Bachelor of Technology, Master of Technology and Master of Computer Applications. The college offers Mechanical Engineering, Electronics & Communication Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Computer Science & Engineering, Civil Engineering, Production Engineering and Biotechnology (from 2010).\n\nDr. B. G. R Campus, referred to as the Pauri campus of Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University is a full-fledged educational campus established in 1971. Pauri College is one of the three campuses of Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University, located in Srinagar, Garhwal. The campus offers arts, science and law courses at graduation, post graduation and research fellowships levels. Located amidst the thick forest cover, the college offers a perfect educational environment to its students.\n\nSt. Thomas School is a premier educational institution in the town, established in 1973. The school comes under the Bijnor Diocese, headed by Rev. John Vadakle. It offers education in Science up to class 12th. It is an English medium school affiliated with ICSE board. This co-educational school has the record of offering 100% pass result in its last 40 years history.\n\nEstablished in the British era, Messmore Inter College or MIC is one of the oldest schools in the Garhwal region. The school was established in 1865 and offers education in science and arts up to class 12th. This is a Hindi medium, government aided school. The school is affiliated with Uttarakhand Board and is co-educational. This college belongs to the association of Methodist churches in India.\n\nThis is a Hindi medium, government aided school. The school is affiliated with Uttarakhand Board and offers co-education.\n\nSri Guru Ram Rai Public School was established by SGRR education mission in the heart of the city with easy accessibility from different corner of the city. School has a magnificent school building equipped with modern aminities. It has a team of highly qualified, motivated and hardworking teachers. \nThe school is running classes from I to XII and is offering streams science, commerce and humanities for classes XI and XII. It is to proclaim that the school is the only school in the town to offer new subject Biotechnology as an elective subject for classes XI and XII.\nShri Guru Ram Rai Public School Pauri Garhwal has achieved high water mark by distinguished performance of the students in the field of academics, extra curricular activities, sports, finearts and in many other inter school competitions.\n\nThis is a Hindi medium, government aided school. The school is affiliated with Uttarakhand Board.\n\nThis is a Hindi medium, government aided school. The school is affiliated with Uttarakhand Board.\n\n\nThe Pauri Ramlila is one of the oldest plays in the Uttarakhand region. It portrays the life of Lord Rama as described in Ramayana. The play was begun by two social activists, Tara Dutt Gairola and Bhola Dutt Kala, in 1883-1884.\n\nAt that time, Pauri was the administrative capital of East India Company in the Garhwal Region. Gairola and Kala organized the Ramlila and played it with the help of locals for six days at the sloppy fields of village Kandai. During the period, some other literary persons joined the play and modified it into \"Persian Theater\". They made the script with the help of Tulsi Das's Ramcharitmanas and some of their own interpretations. In 1906, the play was expanded from six days to ten days.\n\nThe play has been performed until 1993, but was interrupted during the Uttarakhand movement from 1994 until 1996. In 1997, it was restarted following an initiative by Prithvi Pal Singh Chauhan, the M.L.C. of U.P.\n\nAll India Radio has a local station in Pauri which transmits various programs of mass interest.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262897", "title": "Johannes Cesaris", "text": "Johannes Cesaris\n\nJohannes Cesaris (fl. 1406 – 1417) was a French composer of the late Medieval era and early Renaissance. He was one of the composers of the transitional style between the two epochs, and was active at the Burgundian court in the early 15th century.\n\nLittle is known about his life, excepting the years he was active in Bourges. He was a cleric for the Duke of Berry in Bourges in 1406, and \"maître des enfants\" (choirmaster to the boys) at the cathedral there from 1407 to 1409. In 1417 he was probably the organist at Angers cathedral. A Pierre Cesaris, possibly a relative, was active in Bourges until 1443. There is a reference in a contemporary poem, \"Le champion des dames\" by Martin le Franc to Johannes Cesaris being a popular composer in Paris in the early part of the century (this is the same manuscript that contains the famous portraits of Guillaume Dufay and Gilles Binchois).\n\nOf his works, one motet, two ballades, and five rondeaux survive, as well as a sixth rondeau which has a contested attribution (it may be by Passet). Stylistically, they span both the manneristic complexities of the \"ars subtilior\", which was the predominant style in Avignon in the 1390s, and the relatively simple song style of the early 15th century as it was developing in the courts of France and Burgundy. His motet \"A virtutis ignitio/Ergo beata/Benedicta filia\", for four voices with three simultaneously sung texts, is isorhythmic in all parts. One of the secular songs, the rondeaux \"A l'aventure va Gauvain,\" is in a style which suggests the later generation, and may have been written later than 1417; indeed many of his pieces are from manuscripts dated from early to mid-century.\n\nOne of his pieces, the ballade \"Le dieus d'amours\", was copied into the famous Chantilly Codex, the illuminated manuscript which is the primary source for the Avignon repertory of the \"ars subtilior\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262902", "title": "William Dreyer", "text": "William Dreyer\n\nWilliam Dreyer may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2262914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262914", "title": "Jon-Erik Beckjord", "text": "Jon-Erik Beckjord\n\nJon-Erik Beckjord (April 26, 1939 – June 22, 2008) was an American paranormal investigator, photographer, and cryptozoologist interested in such phenomena as UFOs, crop circles, the Loch Ness Monster, and Bigfoot. Throughout his career, he owned three separate, small-scale museums that featured displays, mostly photographs, of alleged UFO, Nessie, and Bigfoot sightings. He made guest appearances on national radio and television shows, but was criticized by fellow cryptozoologists and skeptics alike for not providing substantive evidence to back up his claims of the existence of paranormal beings.\n\nBorn Cedric Jon Beckjord in Duluth, Minnesota, he was the son of Col. Philip Beckjord, a World War II army physician, and Margaret (née McGilvry) Beckjord. He had three siblings: Ross, Peter, and Pam. His family came from Oslo, Norway. \n\nBeckjord attended the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colorado for two years.\n\nHe studied sociology at Tulane University, where he graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in 1961.\n\nHe studied law for one year at Boalt Hall at University of California, Berkeley. He later graduated with an MBA from U.C. Berkeley in 1966.\n\nAfter graduation, Beckjord became a city planner in the Bay area, but wearied of a traditional job and decided to hunt for Bigfoot instead. \"I don't do what most MBAs do,\" he said, \"Most people in my class are bored to death or dead. The object in life is not simply to make money.\" Rather, he believed his most important task was to \"find out why we're here (on Earth)\"\n\nThroughout Beckjord's career as a photographer, paranormal investigator, and crypto-researcher, he collected photographs, castings, and other memorabilia that, to him, represented evidence of the existence of UFOs and alien life, the Loch Ness Monster, as well as Bigfoot. He appeared on several nationwide radio and television shows, including \"Coast to Coast AM\", \"The Tonight Show\", and \"Late Night with David Letterman\". In reference to his explorations, Beckjord compared himself to Galileo, Louis Pasteur, and the Wright brothers.\n\nIn 1983, Beckjord, then director of the Crypto Zoological Society, spent a week in Scotland videotaping what he believed were three monsters in Loch Ness.\n\nIn February, 1989, Beckjord opened the Crypto-Zoology Museum, housed in the corner of Trancas Restaurant in Malibu, CA. The museum had its start on October 31, 1986, when he opened his home to visitors to see his collection. The display primarily consisted of photographs from Beckjord's research into the phenomena of the Loch Ness Monster, Bigfoot, and the Mokele M'Bembe of Africa. According to Beckjord, the museum focused on \"creatures of fact or fancy\" that \"to the best of our knowledge appear to be verified, or haven't at least been debunked.\"\n\nWhen Trancas Restaurant went out of business, Beckjord put the museum's contents in storage. Most of it was lost to fire in 1993.\n\nIn June, 1989, Beckjord was arrested for \"investigation of harassment and coercion\" at the 8th Annual Meeting of the International Society of Cryptozoology in Pullman, WA, where conference members gathered to discuss Bigfoot scientifically. He spent one night in jail and was released on $2500 bond, but was ordered to leave Pullman and stay away from the conference. Organizer and then director of the North American Bigfoot Information Network, Mark Francis, initiated the restraining order after receiving letters from Beckjord that, in his view, contained death threats. Francis was frustrated that \"flakes\", as he characterized people lacking scientific merit, were being allowed to speak at the conference, saying \"The whole conference has become such a joke.\"\n\nOn October 31, 1996, Halloween, Beckjord opened the in San Francisco, California, which featured crop circles. He charged a nominal entrance fee ($3 for adults; $2 for children), but the museum's closing, reportedly, was \"due to lack of any substantial evidence.\"\n\nAfter this museum closed, Beckjord repaired electrical appliances for a company called Captain Neon.\n\nIn 1997, Beckjord opened a third museum in North Beach, CA, which he called the Bigfoot and Loch Ness Monster Museum. It was billed as the city's \"strangest museum\" and consisted of photographs, drawings, and articles devoted to such topics as the Roswell Declaration, Bigfoot, and a sea serpent named \"Sassie\" which, allegedly, lived in the San Francisco Bay.\n\nBeckjord defined cryptozoology as \"the search for mysterious creatures.\" His searches included hidden \"animals\"—those that could, theoretically, exist in nature—and hidden \"critters\" or those that looked like animals, but resisted capture: the Loch Ness Monster, Sasquatch, and Quixacotal Big Bird.\n\nBeckjord became intrigued with the idea of Bigfoot after seeing an article in the newspaper about alleged sightings of the creature. On an expedition to see whether or not the story was true, he claimed he saw a Bigfoot cross the road in front of him from about 200 feet away. Though he later returned with his camera and was unable to find the creature, Beckjord was then convinced of its existence. He also purportedly saw Bigfoot standing 6 feet tall and walking in a \"loose, limbo-dance style\", and, at another time, eating apricots in an orchard around Vacaville, CA. He frequented a camp with other researchers, an alleged \"window site\" in the Bear River Reservoir area of Eldorado National Forest where he asserted that \"evidence of Bigfoot is almost routinely seen.\" While he insisted that the exact location not be revealed to the public, Beckjord did agree to take skeptic Robert Sheaffer on a five-day expedition there in 1999. It was only after Sheaffer left the site, having seen nothing unusual, that Beckjord reported manifestations of Bigfoot.\n\nBeckjord said he heard Bigfoot's voice telling him \"We're not what you think we are, we're here, but we're not real, like what you think is real.\" Along with the photographs of leaves and shadows Beckjord believed showed images of Bigfoot, he also reported having seen Bigfoot footprints that turned into deer tracks, confirming for him that the creature had the ability to shift its shape. He theorized that Bigfoot creatures share a \"space-time origin and connection with UFOs and come from an alternative universe by a wormhole.\"\n\nBeckjord explained away the need for physical evidence, such as hair, blood and bones, to prove the existence of Bigfoot by arguing that the creature is an \"inter-dimensional shape-shifter that can warp in and out of physical reality.\" He theorized that they may be \"the product of tulpas or thought forms created by people or other entities.\" In an editorial for the journal Current Anthropology, Beckjord argued that the study of the \"wild man\", Sasquatch, was \"the proper study of either parapsychologists or Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence scientists, not anthropologists.\"\n\nTo Beckjord, the Loch Ness monster (Nessie) was a space alien pet left on Earth in a form of energy that could interact with human beings. He described Nessie as a cat-like faced creature, 15–30 feet long, 7–10 feet thick with a body that \"looks like a cross between Halley's Comet and the Concorde jet.\" He claimed to have videotaped three, which he named Faith, Hope and Charity, on a visit to Drumnadrochit, Scotland in 1983. Beckjord admitted that the images might not be \"exactly and positively\" Nessie, but asserted that \"90 percent of the people who have viewed the films believe the images are alive.\"\n\nBeckjord speculated that the Loveland Frog might be the extinct 10-ft.-long bipedal dinosaur, Coelophysis.\n\nIn response to a Roy Wagner article, published in the ISC annual journal Cryptozoology (and later reprinted in Fate Magazine, August 1983), Beckjord traveled to Papua New Guinea to search for ri, or mermaids. Wagner's article described eyewitness accounts and sometimes daily sightings of \"an air-breathing mammal, with the trunk, genitalia, and arms and head of a human being, and a legless lower trunk terminating in a pair of lateral fins or flippers.\" After his own investigation and determining that the locals were killing, butchering and eating dugongs—and not mermaids--, Beckjord concluded that no unknown animal was being seen in that area.\n\nBeckjord believed in space alien visitations to Earth, crop circles and creative forces that sculpted rock, lava and sand on Mars to resemble people on Earth like Ted Kennedy, Tammy Faye Bakker and others. He tried to sell his Kennedy-on-Mars photos, which Beckjord discovered while analyzing NASA satellite photos of the planet, to raise money to investigate crop circles in England.\n\nBeckjord took images of what he described as three \"blobs-of-light\" UFOs and witnessed two instances of unexplained light over Malibu and Sepulveda Pass, respectively. Beckjord believed in a government cover up of the existence of UFOs and extraterrestrial intelligence and advocated making that information available to the general public.\n\n\"A lot of this weirdness is right under our noses. We may belong to aliens. We may be experimental animals. But I can't prove it.\"\n\nBeckjord's firm belief that Bigfoot and similar entities were inter-dimensional shape-shifters who could \"manipulate the light spectrum so that people can't see them\" brought him into conflict not only with skeptics, but other Bigfoot researchers as well, who argued for proof of physical remains. He had what is described as \"well-publicized arguments\" with writers of the \"Skeptical Inquirer\" and certain members of the International Society of Cryptozoology and was considered \"a person non grata among more conventional Bigfoot researchers.\" He would, literally, fight for his beliefs with his fists and was banned from contributing to online forums because of postings that were allegedly abusive.\n\nRobert Sheaffer, a founding member of the Committee for Scientific Investigation of Claims of the Paranormal, asserted that Beckjord \"doesn't have one bit of proof. To allay Beckjord's proclamations that \"all skeptics were too timid and closed-minded to actually go out into the woods and confront the Bigfoot evidence for themselves,\" Sheaffer accompanied Beckjord on a 5-day Bigfoot expedition in 1999. He was disappointed at Beckjord's continued lack of evidence and attributed Beckjord's interpretations of rock formations, leaves and shadows as Bigfoot faces or skulls to \"the workings of an overzealous imagination.\"\n\nCNN correspondent Rusty Dornin wrote in 1997 \"Faces on Mars, the Loch Ness monster, or an alien with a name tag (Andy)--if it's far-fetched and unproved, Beckjord buys it. And it's all on display at his storefront 'museum'.\"\n\nBeckjord maintained that \"With the card-carrying skeptics, we will never win. There are more people who have seen UFOs than voted for President Clinton.\"\n\nAfter battling prostate cancer, Beckjord died at the age of 69 on June 22, 2008, near his home in Lafayette, California, where he was a caretaker for the Crosses of Lafayette, a monument to casualties of the Iraq War before his death.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262927", "title": "List of years in rail transport", "text": "List of years in rail transport\n\nYears in rail transport include:\n"}
{"id": "2262935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262935", "title": "Reissert indole synthesis", "text": "Reissert indole synthesis\n\nThe Reissert indole synthesis is a series of chemical reactions designed to synthesize indole or substituted-indoles (4 and 5) from ortho-nitrotoluene 1 and diethyl oxalate 2.\n\nPotassium ethoxide has been shown to give better results than sodium ethoxide.\n\nThe first step of the synthesis is the condensation of o-nitrotoluene 1 with a diethyl oxalate 2 to give ethyl o-nitrophenylpyruvate 3. The reductive cyclization of 3 with zinc in acetic acid gives indole-2-carboxylic acid 4. If desired, 4 can be decarboxylated with heat to give indole 5.\n\nIn an intramolecular version of the Reissert reaction, a furan ring-opening provides the carbonyl necessary for cyclization to form an indole. A ketone side chain is present in the final product, allowing further modifications.\n"}
{"id": "2262948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262948", "title": "Ernst Laas", "text": "Ernst Laas\n\nErnst Laas (June 16, 1837, Fürstenwalde, Brandenburg, Prussia – July 25, 1885, Straßburg, Germany (now Strasbourg, France)) was a German positivist philosopher.\n\nHe was born at Fürstenwalde. He studied theology and philosophy under Friedrich Adolf Trendelenburg at Berlin, and eventually became a professor of philosophy at the University of Strasbourg (1872). In his \"Kants Analogien der Erfahrung\" (\"Kant's Analogies of Experiences\", 1876) he keenly criticized Immanuel Kant's transcendentalism, and in his chief work \"Idealismus und Positivismus\" (\"Idealism and Positivism\", 1879–1884, 3 volumes), he drew a clear contrast between Platonism, from which he derived transcendentalism, and positivism, of which he considered Protagoras the founder. Laas in reality was a disciple of David Hume. Throughout his philosophy he endeavours to connect metaphysics with ethics and the theory of education.\n\nHis chief educational works were \"Der deutsche Aufsatz in den ersten Gymnasialklassen\" (1868), and \"Der deutsche Unterricht auf höhern Lehranstalten\" (1872; 2nd ed. 1886). He contributed largely to the \"Vierteljahrsschrift für wissenschaftliche Philosophie\" (1880–82); the \"Literarischer Nachlass\", a posthumous collection, was published at Vienna (1887).\n\n"}
{"id": "2262950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262950", "title": "The Mouse and the Mask", "text": "The Mouse and the Mask\n\nThe Mouse and the Mask is a collaboration album by Danger Mouse and MF Doom under the name Danger Doom, released on October 11, 2005 by punk label Epitaph Records in the United States, marking it the third hip hop release for the label. It was also released by Lex Records in the UK on October 17, 2005, with different cover art.\n\nThe album is composed almost entirely of raps by MF DOOM, performed over beats created by Danger Mouse sampling music from various television shows airing on Cartoon Network's programming block Adult Swim. The album was heavily promoted by the network prior to its release.\n\n\"Sofa King\" was released as a 12-inch single on November 4, 2005 and was followed by \"Old School\" on July 10, 2006. A video for \"A.T.H.F.\" has also been made.\n\nComedian Dave Chappelle created an iTunes Celebrity Playlist and selected the Danger Doom track \"Mince Meat\" for his Block Party Picks. He stated, \"Two very consistently good artists collaborate to make my head nod. DOOM, Mouse - Thank You. Wherever you are, nice album.\" MF DOOM mentions Chappelle in the song \"Peoples, Places, and Things\" (called \"Name Dropping\" on his CD \"Live from Planet X\"). DOOM says \"Rap cats at brave as hell/Get on the mic and turn 'Gangsta!' on some 'yeah, see' like Dave Chappelle.\" in reference to a bit Chappelle performed in his stand up \"Killin' Them Softly\".\n\nMF DOOM disses MF Grimm in this album by referring to the Monsta Island Czars (aka M.I.C.) as 'Midgets Into Crunk' in the song \"El Chupa Nibre\" (on the paraphrased remix version the line is changed to 'Monkeys Into Crime'). Grimm responded by releasing an entire DOOM diss track, entitled \"Book of Daniel\" (which concludes his 2006 triple album American Hunger), in which he mainly accuses Doom of having sold out.\n\n\"Old School\" features a mix of Keith Mansfield's song \"Funky Fanfare,\" and \"Space Ho's\" sample Mansfield's \"Morning Broadway.\"\n\nThe rap that Meatwad performs at the end of \"Bada Bing\" is a verse from \"Beef Rapp\", the first song on MF DOOM's album \"MM..Food\".\n\nAs of November 6, 2008 the album has sold 170,081 copies.\n\n\"The Mouse and the Mask\" was well received by critics, scoring 81 out of 100 on the review aggregator Metacritic, indicating \"universal acclaim\". \"Spin\" ranked it 25 on their \"40 Best Albums Of 2005\", and said that \"together, these two dudes are more animated than the cartoon characters who pop up on this disc.\". \"Entertainment Weekly\" gave it an A-, calling it a \"hip-hop tour-de-farce\". \"Magnet\" said \"wading deep into hip hop's rich history, they deliver a record that conjures the classics without sounding willfully retro\". \"The Wire\" called it \"[a] frenetic comedy both above and of a kind with its fratboy origins, admirably absurdist in some respects and coolly demented in others\" and \"Vibe\" similarly said \"[a] headphone-friendly soundtrack...[of] deliciously demented narratives.\" \"Mojo\" gave it 3 out of 5 stars, noting \"the stoned, late-night hilarity is grounded by some deft soundtrack-funk production from Dangermouse...\"\n\nNotes:\n"}
{"id": "2262952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262952", "title": "Wilsone Black", "text": "Wilsone Black\n\nMajor-General Sir Wilsone Black (10 February 1837 – 5 July 1909) was a British military officer and colonial administrator.\n\nBlack was commissioned into the 42nd Regiment of Foot in 1854. He served in the Crimea War from 1855 and was present at the Siege of Sebastopol. He was appointed a Brigade Major in Nova Scotia in 1867.\n\nHe transferred to the 6th Regiment of Foot in 1873 and to the 24th Regiment of Foot in 1875. He served in the 9th Xhosa War in 1877. Hee also served in the Anglo-Zulu War and was mentioned in despatches in 1879. He recovered the Colours of the 1st Bn of the 24th regiment which had been lost in the Buffalo River after the Battle of Isandlwana.\n\nHe went on to be Commanding Officer of the South Wales Borderers in 1880, Assistant Adjutant and Quartermaster General in Nova Scotia in 1882, Assistant Adjutant General in Gibraltar in 1887, Commander of the Troops in Jamaica in 1891 and Commander in Belfast in 1893.\n\nHe became Commander of British Troops in China and Hong Kong in 1895 and was Acting Administrator in Hong Kong for a short period between February to November 1898.\n\nHe retired in 1899. \n\nIn 1869 he married Florence Maud Ross; they had one daughter.\n\nWilsone Black's life is commemorated on a memorial tablet in Brecon Cathedral.\n\nBlack Hill in Hong Kong was named after him.\n"}
{"id": "2262959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262959", "title": "KVFS-LP", "text": "KVFS-LP\n\nKVFS-LP is a low-powered radio station in Spokane, Washington.\n\nOriginally launched as KYRS-LP, the station was the fourth community radio barnraising of the Prometheus Radio Project, with original owner Thin Air Community Radio. Thin Air Community Radio sold KYRS-LP to new owners as a condition of being issued a license for full-power station KYRS.\n"}
{"id": "2262961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262961", "title": "Hisarlik, Canakkale", "text": "Hisarlik, Canakkale\n\nHisarlik (Turkish: \"Hisarlık\", \"Place of Fortresses\"), often spelled Hissarlik, is the Turkish name for an ancient city located in what is known historically as Anatolia, Turkish anadolu. It is part of Çanakkale, Turkey. The archaeological site lies approximately from the Aegean Sea and about the same distance from the Dardanelles. The site is a partial tell, or artificial hill, elevated in layers over an original site. In this case the original site was already elevated, being the west end of a ridge projecting in an east–west direction from a mountain range.\n\nAfter many decades of scientific and literary study by specialists, the site is generally accepted by most as the location of ancient Troy, the city mentioned in ancient documents of many countries in several ancient languages, especially ancient Greek, where it appears as Ilion in the earliest literary work of Europe, the Iliad. The site is still being excavated under the name of Troja. It also has been promoted as a major tourist attraction visited by many thousands of persons per year. A Turkish village, Tevfikiye, has been created on the east end of Troy Ridge, as it is now universally termed, to service the site and its visitors and students.\n\nLocated at the edge of a cape projecting into the Aegean between the Dardanelles and the Gulf of Edremit, which was known in antiquity as the Troad, Hisarlik was one of many successful pockets of human civilization which arose and prospered in Anatolia. Paleogeographic studies carried out around Hisarlik by John C. Kraft, head of the Geology Department of the University of Delaware and Professors Ilhan Kayan and Oğuz Erol from Ankara University indicate a favourable environment for settlement existed from around the eighth millennium BC, when receding seas left a fertile, well watered plain which over time became a shallow, but navigable estuary. Above this natural harbour, the hill was large enough to support extensive building, providing natural protection from invasion and a commanding view of the sea.\n\nElsewhere in Anatolia, there is abundant archaeological evidence of a thriving neolithic culture at least as early as the seventh millennium BC. What may have been the world's first urban settlement (c. 7500 BC) has been uncovered at Çatalhüyük in the Konya Ovasi (Konya Basin). Evidence from a cave at Karain near Antalya shows human occupation in the region extending over an estimated 25,000 year period.\n\nThe inhabitants of Hisarlik lived among a number of vigorous, interactive and often warlike cultures. Apart from the mainland Greeks whence they may have sprung, the Trojans counted such neighbours as the Hittites, Phrygians and Lydians. It has been suggested that the polity at ancient Hisarlik might be one and the same with that known to the Hittites as Wilusa.\n\nThe unbroken occupation of the region around Hisarlik continued with the arrival of the Romans. Finally, after several centuries of trying, the Greeks gained control of the region once ruled by the Trojans. Around 1050–800 BC, Ionian Greek refugees fled to Anatolia, to escape the Dorians. Many cities were founded along the Anatolian coast during the great period of Greek expansion after the eighth century BC. One of these, Byzantium, a distant colony established on the Bosporus by the city-state of Megara, grew to supplant Rome and ultimately proved the downfall of Troy as it dominated all maritime and overland trade for almost 22 centuries.\n\nThe region around Hisarlik is still inhabited by the descendants of the many and varied peoples who laid claim to the shores and hillsides of Anatolia. Present day Çanakkale is a thriving settlement close to the ancient site of Hisarlik. Çanakkale lies on both sides of the Dardanelles and touches both Europe (Gelibolu Peninsula) and Asia (Biga Peninsula) and just as it was in the time of Homer, maritime traffic connects both sides of the straits.\n\nThe assumed location of Troy was apparently well known in the ancient world, visited by Alexander the Great and Julius Caesar. In more modern times, a site associated with Ilium (and more readily identifiable as Hisarlik) was being shown to curious visitors as early as the 15th century, when Pedro Tafur was guided from the Genoese port of Fojavecchia (Phocaea):\n\nI travelled by land for two days to that place which they say was Troy, but found no one who could give me any information concerning it, and we came to Ilium, as they call it. This place is situated on the sea opposite the harbour of Tenedos. The whole of this country is strewn with villages, and the Turks regard the ancient buildings as relics and do not destroy anything, but they build their houses adjoining. That which made me understand that this was, indeed, ancient Troy, was the sight of such great ruined buildings, and so many marbles and stones, and that shore, and the harbour of Tenedos over against it, and a great hill which seemed to have been made by the fall of some huge building.\n\nTafur, like most early visitors, was distracted by the more prominent Hellenistic and Roman remains close to the modern shoreline. \n\nWhile the archaeological record has much to say about the physical remains, it reveals little about the people who built and rebuilt the fabled city of Troy. The historical record for Troy is dominated by the epic poems of Homer and peopled with gods and heroes whose identities and histories formed part of the oral tradition of the area for centuries before the great Greek poet committed some of them to verse.\nHomer was not, however, overly concerned with history. Not surprisingly, the historical context for the epic \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\" is not as clear as one would wish. Various attempts have been made over time to identify the origins of the inhabitants of Troy.\n\nAs early as 1946, American classical art historian Rhys Carpenter argued that the Trojan War, far from being an historical event, was in fact a synthesis of many such events involving peoples whose mutual involvement stretched back centuries. In the \"Iliad\", the word most commonly used for the city of the Trojans is not \"Troy\" but \"Ilion\". Carpenter saw this as evidence of the possibility that Troy was not the name of a town at all, but rather the name of an area or district inhabited by the Trojans. The Greeks clearly had a legend about a war against the Trojans, but may have disagreed about where these people lived. At least one group of Greeks put them at a place called Teuthrania in the area known as Mysia.\n\nCarpenter suggests that the real \"Troy\" is located in neither the Troad nor Aeolis but rather that the memory of a pan-Achaean expedition elsewhere was located at two different points in Asia Minor by later poetic traditions: at Ilion by the Ionic poets, because they found in this area a local folk tradition about a strong citadel sacked near the end of the Bronze Age (Hisarlik); and at Teuthrania by the Aeolic poets, to correspond with Aeolic traditions connected with their own occupation of this area.\n\nIf one is willing to accept Carpenter's line of argument this far, one can place \"Troy\" virtually anywhere in the eastern Mediterranean where bands of Mycenaean Greeks may have undertaken joint piratic raids. Carpenter goes so far as to place \"Troy\" in Egypt and to connect the story of the Trojan War with the raids of the Sea Peoples mentioned in Egyptian sources at the end of the 13th and beginning of the 12th centuries BC.\n\nThe tangled and fragile skein of inference in the historical record gives no certainty as to the origin of the inhabitants but the fact remains that for over two millennia a thriving civilisation existed at Hisarlik.\n\nHomer's interest in Troy ends with the fall of the city. Glimpses are recorded of the fallen city, walls burning, looting and destruction and a fleeing populace including Aeneas, carrying his father Anchises away from the scene of devastation and unknowingly into a new and glorious future on alien shores. Troy's history does not end with the fall of Priam's city. The history of Troy is inextricably linked with the Bronze Age and later cultures of Anatolia, the name of which is from the Greek word for sunrise, \"anatole\"\n\nAn alternative site, Hisarlik tell, a thirty-meter-high mound, was identified as a possible site of ancient Troy by a number of amateur archaeologists in the early to mid 19th century. The most dedicated of these was Frank Calvert, whose early work was overshadowed by the German amateur archaeologist Heinrich Schliemann in the 1870s.\n\nThe site of Hisarlik has been under near-constant archaeological excavation ever since Schliemann began in 1873. While much has been discovered about the structural layout of the many layers of occupation, there has been a paucity of writing found from before the classical era. In fact, the only written document heretofore discovered is a small cylinder seal with an inscription in Luwian.\n\nTroy VII is an archaeological layer of Hisarlik that chronologically spans from c. 1300 to c. 950 BC. It coincides with the collapse of the Bronze Age and is thought to be the Troy mentioned in Ancient Greece and the site of the Trojan War.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262965", "title": "Cross-training", "text": "Cross-training\n\nCross-training is athletic training in sports other than the athlete's usual sport. The goal is improving overall performance. It takes advantage of the particular effectiveness of one training method to negate the shortcomings of another.\n\nCross-training in sports and fitness involves combining exercises to work various parts of the body. Often one particular activity works certain muscle groups, but not others; cross-training aims to eliminate this imbalance.\n\nIn mixed martial arts and self-defense, cross-training refers to training in multiple martial arts or fighting systems to become proficient in all the phases of unarmed combat. This training is meant to overcome the shortcomings of one style by practicing another style which is strong in the appropriate area. A typical combination involves a striking-based art such as Muay Thai, combined with a grappling-based art such as wrestling and Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu. Many hybrid martial arts can be considered derivatives of such cross-training - most notably Dan Inosanto's Jeet Kune Do concepts, a hybrid of Filipino martial arts, wing chun and savate, Apolaki Krav Maga & Dirty Boxing, a hybrid martial-art blending Krav Maga, Filipino martial arts, silat and Brazilian jiu-jitsu and kajukenbo, an American hybrid art consisting of karate, tang soo do, jujutsu, kenpo, and boxing.\n\nModern mixed martial-arts training generally involves cross-training in the different aspects and ranges of fighting.\n\nIn water sports, cross-training often involves doing exercises and training on land. This is often referred to by swimmers as \"dryland\". For swimming, cross-training frequently includes running, stretching, and other resistance and agility training. Diving dryland exercises include various unique exercises such as on-land landing biomechanics training. \n\n"}
{"id": "2262977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262977", "title": "Gate 13", "text": "Gate 13\n\nGate 13 ( 13), is the name of the association, which consists of many supporters groups of the Greek multi-sports club Panathinaikos A.O.. Officially founded on November 19, 1966, Gate 13 is the oldest supporters' union in Greece. Gate 13 has members from all over Greece and has over the years become a part of the club by affecting club decisions and by following the club on all possible OCCASIONS.\n\nBefore the foundation of Gate 13 there were various football supporters' clubs all around Greece. The first of these clubs was founded in October 1952 and was called S.F.O.P. (.Φ.Ο.Π., Σύλλογος Φιλάθλων Οπαδών Παναθηναϊκού, \"Syllogos Filathlon Opadon Panathinaikou\", \"Panathinaikos Supporters Club\") and stayed active for an unknown amount of time.\n\nTowards the end of the 50s, supporters started getting organized as far as the home and away match support. They started attending the matches regularly and always met at the 13th gate of the Apostolos Nikolaidis Stadium. Gate 13 was also a place for the poorest fans and supporters of the team, with the seats not being numbered, unlike the rest of the stadium and the vip seats.\n\nIn order to organize trips for away matches and other events, the various fan clubs used to write in the two newspapers most read by Panathinaikos fans of the time, Athlitiki Iho (, \"Athletic Echo\") and Panathinaika Nea (, \"Panathenaic News\").\n\nBy 1966, there were a number of supporters' clubs, all named by the area where they were based. Notable clubs included: Ampelokipi, Zografou, Patissia, Gizi, Petralona, Cholargos, Peristeri, Nikaia-Koridallos, Patras and many more, most of which are still active today. Despite the lack of a universal name, the clubs would often meet to discuss various things including the team's performance and management, various trips for away matches and securing tickets for the home matches. Since 1962–63 there had been thoughts of founding a universal club under the name of the stadium's gate where the team's most devoted supporters met, but at the time there were many difficulties. Slowly the name Gate 13 was starting to get recognized and respected from players and fans.\n\nThen, in 1966, after much effort, the \"Syndesmos Filon Panathinaikou Athlitikou Omilou \"I Thyra 13\"\" (Σύνδεσμος Φίλων Παναθηναϊκού Αθλητικού Ομίλου \"Η Θύρα 13\", \"Fan Club of Panathinaikos Athletic Club \"Gate 13\"\") first operated on November 19, 1966, on 68, Kolonos Str in Athens. At the time, it was a club like all the rest, but the difference was that its name would become a major part of Panathinaikos' history. On November 27, 1966, a few days after the foundation of Gate 13, a bus carrying Panathinaikos fans from Athens to Veroia crashed, resulting in the death of two Panathinaikos fans, Giorgos Koskoros () and Dimitris Sarantakos () who was one of the founding members of Gate 13.\n\nIn 1967 the supporters' clubs of Panathinaikos were increasing in number in Athens and rest of Greece. In 1967, the Greek military junta of 1967–1974 was established and closed many of them.\n\nSo did Gate 13, only to reopen in 1968 with new offices on 39, Sokratous Srt in the center of Athens. Many other clubs followed shortly. At that time, the situation inside the stadiums in Greece was very calm with fights only occasionally breaking out.\n\nIn the following years Gate 13 expanded and flags with its name and logos started to appear in European stadiums, as well as Greek ones, while the Leoforos stadium was overflowing with people in the vast majority of games.\n\nPlus, the interest for basketball was growing among Panathinaikos's fans. In addition, Gate 13 would attend also non sport related activities like the team's elections. At the same time they would often express their opinion on various issues that they thought negatively influenced the club, like ticket prices etc.\n\n1971 was a key year in the history of Panathinaikos. The football team reached the 1971 European Cup Final and still is the only Greek football team ever to reach the final in a major European competition. Because of this success, Panathinaikos fans increased in numbers all over Greece. Gate 13 was present in all the games of the team in the European Cup with memorable trips. 15,000 fans went to Belgrade to see Panathinaikos against the then very strong Red Star Belgrade while 20,000 traveled to London's Wembley Stadium for the final against AFC Ajax. Because of the success of Panathinaikos's football team in European Competitions, a number of supporters' clubs started reopening while other fans decided to found their own supporters' clubs. Some of the most famous new clubs were in Nikaia and Vyronas in 1972. Immediately after its foundation, the club would attend many away games with its own leaders and would very often criticize Panathinaikos's management and owners. By 1974, most supporters' clubs had their own leaders and would be present in all away matches.\n\nAfter the fall of the Greek military junta of 1967–1974 supporters' clubs started reappearing all over Greece. By 1978 there were 52 Panathinaikos supporters clubs operating all over Greece, when arch rivals Olympiakos only had a few clubs running. In 1976, during the event for Gate 13's 10 year anniversary, Panathinaikos's fans honoured the fans that had died by keeping a minutes silence in their memory.\n\nGate 13 remains until today the loudest part of the stadium, with many flags and banners giving colour and character to the stand.\n\nGate 13 holds a very strong brotherhood with Rapid Wien's fans Ultras Rapid since 2001 when Panathinaikos played Sturm Graz for UEFA Champions League. Since then there have been many actions to promote this friendships such as flags from one to the curva of the another. \nOn June, 2016, Ultras Rapid were present at the 50-year celebration of Gate 13 in Athens.\n\nBeyond the friendship with Ultras Rapid Wien, the closest active relations they share are with GNK Dinamo Zagreb, Bad Blue Boys and Roma , Curva Sud (Fedayn).\n\nOver the years Gate 13 or parts of it, had also friendships with groups from Real Madrid (Orgullo Vikingo) mainly during the 90s, Werder Bremen, Ajax Amsterdam (F-SIDE Amsterdam), SpVgg Furth, Ferencváros, Hammarby IF FF, Saint-Étienne, and Shamrock Rovers (SRFC Ultras). Their friendship with the Shamrock Rovers Ultras grew when some of the Gate 13 Ultras made their way to Ireland in 2017 to watch Shamrock Rovers away to Galway\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262981", "title": "Georgia State Route 20", "text": "Georgia State Route 20\n\nState Route 20 (SR 20) is a state highway roughly in the shape of a capital J rotated ninety degrees to the left, which travels through portions of Floyd, Bartow, Cherokee, Forsyth, Gwinnett, Walton, Rockdale, Newton, and Henry counties in the northwestern and north-central parts of the U.S. state of Georgia. Its counterclockwise, or western terminus is at the Alabama state line in Floyd County, and its clockwise, or eastern terminus occurs at its interchange with Lower Woolsey Road southwest of Hampton in Henry County south-southeast of the Atlanta Motor Speedway.\n\nFrom the Alabama state line, SR 20 proceeds east through central Floyd County into the city of Rome, and is concurrent with US 27, SR 1, and SR 53 through downtown Rome. The highway leaves Rome to the east, concurrent with US 411, bisecting Floyd County, and then enters and bisects Bartow County, still concurrent with US 411 until just north of Cartersville (US 41 is briefly concurrent in Cartersville as well), after which SR 20 continues eastward on its own. The highway intersects I-75 north of Cartersville, and continues to head east, passing Lake Allatoona to its north, and entering Cherokee County. SR 20 heads east into central Cherokee County and through its county seat in Canton, and has a brief concurrency with I-575/SR 5, before continuing east into Forsyth County. In central Forsyth County, the highway dips southeast to pass to the south of Sawnee Mountain and heads through Cumming, crossing US 19 and SR 400, and heading on into Gwinnett County, passing to the south of Lake Lanier. SR 20 then turns south after an interchange with I-985/US 23/SR 365, crossing I-85 shortly thereafter. The road also has provides access to SR 316, which leads to Athens.\nSR 20 continues southward through Lawrenceville and heads into Walton County and through Loganville, paralleling the Gwinnett–Walton County line, before crossing into Rockdale County and meeting I-20/US 278/SR 12 in Conyers. Likely to help alleviate driver confusion due to two identically-numbered highways meeting, the highway is usually referred to at this point as SR 138, with which it travels concurrent through Conyers. SR 20 continues south and then southwest to the Henry County seat of McDonough, where it briefly travels concurrent with SR 81. SR 81 departs to the west after the highways cross I-75 at exit 218. The portion of SR 20 between the western end of the SR 81 concurrency and Lower Woolsey Road, the highway's clockwise/eastern terminus, was widened in the early 2000s from two lanes to four, including a new southern bypass of the city of Hampton, and more controlled access at US 19/US 41. The primary purpose of the widening has been to facilitate the flow of traffic to and from the Atlanta Motor Speedway located near the highway's eastern terminus.\n\nThe Georgia Department of Transportation average annual daily traffic (AADT) numbers for the year 2011 show a variety of daily averages across SR 20. The traffic load on the highway starts at its lowest daily average load as the route starts into Floyd County, where numbers hover around 5,400 vehicles per day. These averages increase rapidly as the highway approaches Rome, going from around 12,000 vehicles to a peak of 38,000 vehicles in downtown Rome. As SR 20 becomes concurrent with US 27/SR 1, the numbers decrease to an average of 32,000, and then decrease more rapidly to around 15,000 as SR 20 heads east out of Rome. The vehicle load stays in that area all the way through Floyd County and into Bartow County, as the highway is the main west-to-east thoroughfare between Rome and Cartersville. In Cartersville, where the highway is concurrent with US 41, the vehicle count reaches a zenith of just over 41,000, but then drops off sharply as the highway heads into rural Cherokee County, dipping just below 10,000 before increasing again to near 24,000 vehicles per day as it approaches I-575/SR 5. On the portion of the highway that is concurrent with I-575/SR 5, the highway sees its maximum vehicle load of just over 54,000 vehicles, again dropping rapidly east of I-575/SR 5, going from around 24,000 down to 11,000, and further down to around 10,000 as the Forsyth County line is reached.\n\nNumbers start to creep up again as the Forsyth county seat of Cumming approaches, going from 10,000 to over 22,000 vehicles, cresting at 37,000 vehicles south of Cumming, as the route feeds traffic onto US 19/SR 400 southbound into Atlanta. Averages stabilize around 20,000 vehicles per day as SR 20 heads into Gwinnett County, briefly cresting again at over 41,000 vehicles around I-985, and dipping to around 30,000 vehicles around I-85. South of Lawrenceville, numbers then start to decrease once more from around 22,000 down to 14,000 around Loganville, and dip down into average of just over 8,000 in rural Walton County. Until the highway reaches Conyers, average numbers see lows of 6,800 in Rockdale County, increasing again to just over 31,000 in and around Conyers and I-20. Rapidly decreasing once more to around 7,600 vehicles per day in Newton and northern Henry counties, another high is reached in the vicinity of I-75 with just over 28,000 vehicles per day, before the highway reaches its eastern terminus in Hampton with average traffic loads just over 12,000 vehicles per day.\n\nThe following portions of SR 20 are part of the National Highway System, a system of routes determined to be the most important for the nation's economy, mobility, and defense:\n\nThe highway that would eventually become SR 20 was established at least as early as 1919 as the entire length of SR 4 from the Alabama state line to Cartersville, an unnumbered road from Cumming to Buford, part of SR 13 from Buford to Lawrenceville, and part of SR 45 from Lawrenceville to Loganville. By the end of 1921, SR 68 was established on the current path of SR 20 from Cumming to Buford. Also, SR 45 between Lawrenceville and Loganville was redesignated as part of SR 13. By the end of 1926, two segments had a \"sand clay or top soil\" surface: from the Alabama state line to just west of Rome and from Sugar Hill to Lawrenceville. The highway in the vicinity of Rome had a \"completed hard surface\". A portion of the highway from just east of Rome to a point northwest of Cartersville was under construction. In the northwestern part of Cartersville and farther to the west, a portion of the highway had a completed semi hard surface. Within three years, all of SR 4 was redesignated as part of SR 20, with US 41W designated on the Rome–Cartersville segment. US 19 was designated on the Buford–Lawrenceville segment. The portion of the highway at the Alabama state line had a completed semi hard surface. The portion of the highway just east of Rome had a completed hard surface. The highway was under construction northwest of Cartersville.\n\nBy the middle of 1930, SR 20 was established from SR 61 in Rydal to SR 5 in Canton. The entire Rome–Cartersville and Buford–Lawrenceville segments had a completed hard surface. Also, SR 53 was designated from the Alabama state line to Rome, farther to the north than SR 20. Later that year, the portion of SR 20 and SR 53 west of Rome were swapped. By the beginning of 1932, US 19 was shifted farther to the west and off of the current SR 20 between Buford and Lawrenceville; at the same time, US 23 was designated on this same segment. In January 1932, SR 20 was established from Canton to Cumming. SR 68, from Cumming to Buford, was decommissioned and redesignated as part of SR 20. Also, since SR 13 was shifted to a more western alignment, its segment from Buford to Lawrenceville was also redesignated as part of SR 20. A few months later, SR 20 was established from Loganville to Conyers. Nearly a year later, SR 20 was established from Conyers to McDonough. The next month, the western part of the segment from the Alabama state line to Rome was under construction. Later that year, SR 20 was designated along SR 61 from Cartersville to Rydal, with the entire length having a sand clay or top soil surface. Also, a portion of the highway east of Canton was under construction. Before the year ended, US 41W between Rome and Cartersville was redesignated as part of US 411, which was also designated along SR 20/SR 61 from Cartersville to Rydal. At this time, the Rockdale County portion of the segment between Loganville and Conyers was under construction. By the middle of 1935, the western half of the Canton–Cumming segment was under construction. By October of that year, a small portion east of Canton had a sand clay or top soil surface. At the end of the year, a small portion north-northeast of Cartersville, as well as a small portion north-northeast of Conyers, had a completed hard surface. Later in 1936, the central portion of the SR 20/SR 61 segment, from Cartersville to Rydal, had completed grading, but was not surfaced. A few months later, a small portion south-southwest of Rydal had a completed hard surface. The entire Forsyth County portion of the Canton–Cumming segment, except for the eastern end, was under construction. Also, the entire Gwinnett County portion of the Cumming–Buford segment had completed grading, but was not surfaced. By the middle of the year, the central portion of SR 20/SR 61, from Cartersville to Rydal, had a completed hard surface. Also, the eastern three-fourths of the Canton–Cumming segment was under construction. A few months later, the western third of this segment had a completed hard surface, while the eastern third of it had completed grading, but was not surfaced. The northern half of the segment between Lawrenceville and Loganville, and nearly the entire northern half of the segment between Conyers and McDonough, also had completed grading, but was not surfaced. About two years later, US 23 was shifted farther to the west and off of SR 20's path. Also, a small portion northeast of Buford had a sand clay or top soil surface. Before the year ended, about half of the total length of the segment from the Alabama state line and Rome had a completed hard surface.\n\nToward the end of 1940, the western portion of this segment, as well as the entire Rockdale County portion of the Conyers–McDonough segment, had a completed hard surface. Later that year, SR 20 Spur was built in the northern portion of Cartersville from US 41/US 411/SR 3/SR 20 to US 411/SR 20/SR 61. At this time, SR 113 was established from US 411/SR 20/SR 61 in the northern portion of Cartersville to SR 5 in the southern portion of Canton. In 1941, the western and eastern termini of SR 113 had completed grading, but were not surfaced. The next year, SR 113 was truncated to Cartersville, its former path was redesignated as part of SR 20. With the highway being shifted southward, its former path between Rydal and Canton became part of SR 140. In 1943, SR 20 Spur in the northern part of Cartersville was redesignated as part of the SR 20 mainline. By the end of 1946, three segments were hard surfaced: Alabama state line to Rome, Cumming to Buford, and Lawrenceville to Loganville. Between 1946 and the beginning of 1948, the Canton–Cumming segment, and a portion north-northeast of Conyers, were both hard surfaced. At this time SR 20 Spur was established in Loganville.\n\nBefore the third quarter of 1950 ended, a portion of the highway northeast of Cartersville was hard surfaced. By the end of 1951, the southern half of the segment from Loganville to Conyers, and a portion northeast of McDonough, had been hard surfaced. In 1952, an unnumbered road was built from SR 81 west-southwest of McDonough to US 19/US 41/SR 3 in Hampton. The next year, a small portion of SR 20 in the northern part of Cartersville, a portion of it west of Canton, and the entire Rockdale County portion were hard surfaced. At this time, SR 294N was built, with a hard surface, northeast of Cartersville. At this time, SR 20 Conn. was built, from SR 20 in Sugar Hill, to US 23/SR 13 south of Buford. In 1954, the entire Walton County portion of the highway was hard surfaced. SR 20 Conn. was redesignated as part of the SR 20 mainline. In 1955, it was reverted to being designated as SR 20 Conn., with the western part paved. A few years later, all portions of SR 20 that had been built were paved. At this time, SR 294 had been redesignated as the SR 294 mainline. By 1960, SR 20 was extended west-southwest from McDonough along SR 81, and then on a previously unnumbered road to US 19/US 41/SR 3 in Hampton. The entire length of this extension was paved.\n\nBetween 1960 and 1963, US 411 between Rome and Cartersville was shifted on a more southerly routing, concurrent with SR 344; SR 20 remained on the old alignment. By 1966, SR 294 had been reverted to being designated as SR 294N. SR 20 Conn. had been decommissioned and redesignated as the SR 20 mainline again. In 1966, SR 20 Spur was designated from SR 20 in Sugar Hill to SR 13 Spur in Buford.\n\nThe highway stayed about the same until 1977, when SR 344 was decommissioned. SR 20 was shifted onto US 411 between Rome and Cartersville. SR 20's old alignment was redesignated as part of SR 293. A few years later, SR 20 Spur in Loganville was decommissioned and redesignated as part of SR 81. A decade later, SR 20 Spur in Buford was also decommissioned. In the middle of the decade, SR 294N was decommissioned again and redesignated as SR 20 Spur. In the mid-2000s, SR 20 was extended to Lower Woolsey Road southwest of Hampton.\n\nState Route 20 Spur (SR 20 Spur) is a spur route of SR 20. It travels from SR 20, just east of its interchange with Interstate 75 (I-75) north of Cartersville, south to Allatoona Dam. The highway, along with nearby Allatoona Dam road, formed the two segments of State Route 294.\nBy 1953, SR 20 Spur had been constructed and was signed as SR 294.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262983", "title": "Who Is It (Michael Jackson song)", "text": "Who Is It (Michael Jackson song)\n\n\"Who Is It\" is a song by American recording artist Michael Jackson. It was released by Epic Records on August 31, 1992 in the UK, and March 29, 1993 in the US, as the fifth single from Jackson's eighth studio album, \"Dangerous\" (1991). The song was written and composed by Jackson, and produced by Jackson and Bill Bottrell. The song's lyrics pertain to despair over being left by someone you love; some critics noted a comparison to the lyrics of the song to Jackson's single, \"Billie Jean\", from the album \"Thriller\". As part of the promotion for the song, two music videos were released in 1992. The song was not performed by Jackson on any of his world concert tours. He did, however, perform a small segment of the song in his interview with Oprah Winfrey in early 1993. An instrumental portion of the song was supposed to be used during the \"This Is It\" comeback concerts in London, which were canceled due to Jackson's death.\n\n\"Who Is It\" was recorded by Michael Jackson in 1990 for his eighth studio album, \"Dangerous\", which was released the following year. Jackson wrote and composed the track, and produced it with Bill Bottrell. It was released as the fifth single from \"Dangerous\" on August 31, 1992 in the UK, and March 29, 1993 in the US, by Jackson's record label, Epic Records. The lyrics of the song tell of a man who is left in despair when his lover suddenly leaves him. He learns that she was unfaithful to him and wants to know with whom she cheated.\n\nSeveral music critics compared \"Who Is It\" to Jackson's 1983 single \"Billie Jean\". Jon Pareles, a writer for \"The New York Times\", described \"Who Is It\" as an \"imitation\" of \"Billie Jean\". Chris Willman of the \"Los Angeles Times\" claimed that the track \"recaptures some of the slinky, insinuating feel of 'Billie Jean.'\" Jonathan Bernstein, a writer for \"Spin\", wrote that \"Who Is It\" was \"close skin to \"Billie Jean\". Alan Light of \"Rolling Stone\" noted that unlike his previous efforts, it is about betrayal.\n\n\"Who Is It\" was commercially successful worldwide, generally peaking within the top 30 positions on national music charts. The song peaked at number 14 on the United States' \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart, while peaking at number six on \"Billboard\" Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs, as well as topping the \"Billboard\" Hot Dance Club Play. Internationally, \"Who Is It\" reached the top 20 in several countries. The song debuted on the United Kingdom music chart at number 12 on July 25, 1992, and the following week reached its peak position, number 10. It remained within the top 100 positions for seven consecutive weeks from July to September 1992. In France, the track peaked at number eight on August 29. \"Who Is It\" reached its lowest peak position at number 34 in Australia.\n\nIn Austria, the track debuted at its peak position, number five; the song remained within the top 30 chart positions from August to October. \"Who Is It\" debuted in Switzerland on August 2, at number 40, and peaked at number 14 two weeks later. The song debuted at number 94 in the Netherlands, and the following week moved up 60 positions, eventually peaking at number 13. In Sweden, the track entered the country's music chart at its peak position, number 24 and, after four weeks, fell out of the top 50. In Norway, the track debuted at its peak position, number 10 on the 30th week of 1992; the song charted at its peak position for two weeks before falling off the chart. The song also peaked at number 16 in New Zealand. After Jackson's death in June 2009, his music experienced a surge in popularity. \"Who Is It\" re-entered the Switzerland music charts for the first time in over 17 years, hitting number 49 on July 12, 2009.\n\nDirected by David Fincher, the music video for \"Who Is It\" was released in 1993. The music video was filmed in Los Angeles, California and the helicopter scene in the video was filmed at the Neverland Ranch.\n\nIt begins with Jackson in what seems to be a hotel, singing about his girlfriend portrayed by English model Yasmin Le Bon. He is distressed because he found a silver card with the name \"Alex\" on it. It implies that his girlfriend is cheating on him with someone else. As the story in the video unfolds, the girl takes on different identities (i.e. Eve, Diana, etc.) for her job as a high class call girl. \"Alex\" (which is also a girl's name) just happens to be one of them. The video alternates scenes from where Jackson is singing about his pain, to where the girl is being changed into her different identities and taking care of her jobs (mostly meeting with other men and even some women, and sleeping with them). Towards the end of the video, Jackson has packed up his bags to leave town, because of his distress. A helicopter comes to pick him up from his house. The girl comes to Jackson's house and she asks his assistant (who knows the situation and aided Jackson in his departure) to let her in. It is likely she quit the job for him and wants to stay. The assistant shakes his head, implying that he left. When she asks why, he drops a flutter of silver nameplates (including the one that said \"Alex\") from a slot in the door. After that scene, Jackson is seen sleeping and smoke floats out the side of the screen. Having lost her love and without any alternative, the girl turns to her callgirl existence again. Her employer slaps her in the face and the video ends as the girl is seen being prepared for a new identity.\n\nThis version did not initially air in the USA but was included on the video albums: \"\" and \"Michael Jackson's Vision\".\n\nAnother version of the video features footage from past music videos and live performances. This is the version that first aired in the USA.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2262990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262990", "title": "1952–53 in Scottish football", "text": "1952–53 in Scottish football\n\nThe 1952–53 season was the 80th season of competitive football in Scotland and the 56th season of the Scottish Football League.\n\nRangers won the title with a 1–1 draw in their last match, away to Queen of the South. Rangers equalised with 17 minutes to go and thereby won the league on goal average from Hibernian, thus preventing Hibs from winning their third title in a row.\n\nChampions: Rangers\nRelegated: Motherwell, Third Lanark\n\nPromoted: Stirling Albion, Hamilton Academical\n\n\nScotland and England shared victory in the 1953 British Home Championship.\n\nKey:\n\n"}
{"id": "2262993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262993", "title": "Triumph of a Heart", "text": "Triumph of a Heart\n\n\"Triumph of a Heart\" is a song recorded by Icelandic singer Björk for her fifth studio album \"Medúlla\". Written and produced by Björk, the song features beatboxer Rahzel from The Roots, Gregory Purnhagen, and Japanese beatboxer Dokaka. \"Triumph of a Heart\" was released on 28 February 2005, by One Little Indian. A song with elements of pop, dance, and hip-hop elements, the lyrics to \"Triumph of a Heart\" are described as being a celebration of \"the workings of anatomy\".\n\nCritical reception towards \"Triumph of a Heart\" was mixed; whilst some music journalists noted that it was one of the only radio-friendly songs on \"Medúlla\" as well as a successful album closer, others called the track \"erratic\". The song fared moderately on music charts, peaking at the top ten in Spain and reaching the top 40 in Italy and the United Kingdom. The music video for \"Triumph of a Heart\", directed by Spike Jonze, depicts Björk being married to a housecat, going out for a night out on the town. The track was also included on the 2007–08 Volta Tour.\n\nMusically, \"Triumph of a Heart\" is a song with pop, dance, and hip-hop elements. According to Michael Hubbard from MusicOMH, the song begins with \"balloons being blown up\" and goes on to feature a sequenced cacophany of \"meaows, mmmmms, parps, waaayaas and other side-splitting human voice noises all strung together like so many deranged pixies letting out their tensions in pixie disco land\". \"Triumph of a Heart\" also features orchestral arrangements by the Icelandic and London Choirs, as well as hooks coming from a \"human trombone\", the singer Gregory Purnhagen, and beatboxers Rahzel and Dokaka. Sal Cinquemani from Slant Magazine said the track \"could be described as \"future disco\", with human voices subbing for bass kick, horns, house snare, and oscillating synthesizers\". In the song, Björk also lyrically \"celebrates the workings of anatomy\". In an interview with Radio X, Björk said that in fact the lyrics were \"probably about just celebrating the body; cells doing rollercoaster rides up and down your body, in the blood and the lungs. Just singing\". With \"Interview\" magazine, whilst asked about the song's lyrics, the singer stated that,\n\n\"I always think I'm saying something really upfront and direct. I guess through the years, I've probably done a lot of alternative medicine like acupuncture. I'm probably interested in the Chinese things overall. But that song is actually about that because—I don't know if you understand this—but I have a tendency to finish my kidney energy. It's my weakness. And if you kick your heels into the earth, you send back the kidney energy. So I was trying to have one verse about that, and one verse about oxygen, and one verse about the nerves\".\nDominique Leone, writing for \"Pitchfork\" magazine, said the track was one of the only songs on the album that might conceivably work on the radio. Chris Willman from \"Entertainment Weekly\" said \"Triumph of a Heart\" was \"peppy\" and \"most easily digestible\" than the rest of the album and \"tucked away at the disc's end\" it was like a \"reward for making it through the more challenging passages\". Justin Petrone of \"The Baltic Times\" newspaper said \"Triumph of a Heart\" was \"as bouncy and pop as any of her best, a true symbol that the record has succeeded\". BBC Manchester said that \"the punching rhythm\" of the track twitches \"through the spine\". \"Blender\"s Ann Powers recommended the track for download. Mark Daniell from Jam! website commented that \"she envelops all sensory perceptions on the breathy, beat-box laden\" songs like \"Triumph of a Heart\". David Buckley from \"Mojo\" said \"of the 14 songs here, only Who Is It and Triumph of a Heart could in any way be called radio-friendly\". Although \"People\" magazine gave \"Medúlla\" a negative review, it recommended \"Triumph of a Heart\" for download. The Milk Factory website noted on the song there were hints of Björk's poppier days \"cleverly blended into Medúlla's unconventional template\". Heather Phares from AllMusic said \"there's something simian about Dokaka's gleeful babbling and beats\" on \"Triumph of a Heart\".\n\nMatthew Gasteiser from \"Prefix\" magazine commented that \"Triumph of a Heart\" closes the album with an \"awe-inspiring performance\" by Dakoka, who \"helps create a dance beat complete with trumpet that could have fit right in on 1993's Debut\", and that along with \"Who Is It\", it was an \"excellent addition\" to her catalogue, but noted that \"both seem to be bereft of instruments simply to serve the concept. Fortunately, Bjork arranged them as lynchpins, holding the record's emotional strands together\". Dom Sinacola from Coke Machine Glow website said that the track reunites \"a clean menagerie of guest stars, rolling out Dokaka, Rahzel, and a bit of Schlomo for a tweaked disco boogie. Björk answers with a pump-crushing final anthem of sorts, going out breathlessly\". Although he called it \"abrupt and winded\", he felt that the song was \"just incomplete\". According to Spence D. from IGN \"Triumph of a Heart\" was \"the most erratic and quirky number of the entire set\". Whilst the \"human trombone\" of Gregory Purnhagen \"intertwines itself with the dueling beatbox verbal acrobatics of Rahzel and Dokaka\", it creates a \"strange cross culture of head nodding dance music and fairy tale pop cacophony\". Brent DiCrescenzo from \"Time Out\" magazine ranked \"Triumph of a Heart\" as the sixth of \"The 11 best Björk songs ever\", calling the song \"brilliant\", and elaborating that \"this album closer is the playful polar opposite of uptight\".\n\nIn the United Kingdom, \"Triumph of a Heart\" debuted at its peak of number 31 on the UK Singles Chart on the issue dated 6 March 2005, and as of 2020, remains her last UK Top 40 hit. The song debuted at number 45 in Italy on 17 March 2005, before peaking at number 33 the week after. It fell off the chart the next week. In France, \"Triumph of a Heart\" debuted at its peak of number 63, before spending four other weeks and falling off the chart. It was a success in Spain, debuting at number seven on the issue dated 6 March 2005, and peaking at number six.\n\nThe accompanying music video for \"Triumph of a Heart\" was directed by Spike Jonze, who also directed the videos for \"It's Oh So Quiet\" and \"It's in Our Hands\". It was filmed in August 2004 in Reykjavík, Iceland, Björk's hometown. The video was premiered on 21 January 2005 through Björk's official website. In the video, Björk tired of her husband, played by a housecat, storms out of the house for a night out on the town. She goes to a pub where she drinks and hangs out with some friends. Then, she goes to the restrooms and the song stops, and the locals, including Dokaka, start beatboxing and making noises. When Björk is back, she joins the crew for a special performance of the song recorded for the video with samples from the \"Audition Mix\" of the song.\n\nThey go out of the pub and Björk runs through the town drunk, falling over at one point. Later, she wakes up on a road with scratches and bruises all over her body. The forehead injury really happened during filming. She gets up and continues to sing the song, with hearts coming from her mouth. The cat-husband sees the hearts from his house and finds out Björk's location. He picks her up in his car and they go home. At home, the two share a kiss and dance as the song ends. The making of the video is documented in a bonus feature that appears on \"The Medúlla Videos\" DVD (2005), which focuses on the auditions for the bar patrons who had to be able to make the noises and sound effects required for the song. An image of the cat in a suit reading a newspaper has become a popular internet meme, known as the 'I Should Buy A...' meme.\n\nThe video was well received by critics. It was placed number two on \"The 10 best Björk music videos\" list by \"Time Out\" magazine's David Ehrlich, who said that \"it sure feels like the greatest music video ever made while you're watching it\", also saying that the video's ending shows that \"Björk is an independent woman, but it's always nice to have someone to dance with during breakfast\". The video was also the 50th on \"The 50 Best Music Videos of the Aughts\" list by Slant Magazine, with Ed Gonzalez commenting that it \"is more than just an uproarious collection of sight gags\". The same magazine chose the video as the seventh best music video by Björk.\n\n\"Triumph of a Heart\" was first performed live on 20 April 2008 during the Volta Tour at the Hammersmith Apollo in London. It was also added to setlists for other shows during the tour.\n\n\n\n\nCredits adapted from \"Medúlla\" album booklet.\n\n"}
{"id": "2262996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262996", "title": "Cummings Park", "text": "Cummings Park\n\nCummings Park is located in Stamford, Connecticut, US. It is made up of about 79 acres (320,000 m²) of shorefront property on Long Island Sound.\n\nThe main attraction of the park is Cummings Beach, which once had a seasonal harbor seal colony of which only a white marble seal statue is left. The park also has a playfield, four baseball fields, several basketball and tennis courts, rest rooms, a seasonal cafe, and a hillside that is popular among locals for winter sledding. A public marina, boat launch, and fishing pier are also located there.\n\nCummings Park is administered by the City of Stamford which sells monthly passes for parking access. It is named after Homer Stille Cummings, a former mayor of Stamford who was active in Democratic politics and later worked for Franklin Delano Roosevelt as U.S. Attorney General. He lived in town for most of his life and often went to the shoreline there for walking.\n"}
{"id": "2263002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263002", "title": "Holton (Leblanc)", "text": "Holton (Leblanc)\n\nHolton is a brand owned by Steinway Musical Instruments' Conn-Selmer division. The original business was a used instrument shop owned by Frank Holton, a trombone player, in Chicago, Illinois, started in 1898. The firm built brass instruments for ten years in Chicago, then in Elkhorn, Wisconsin from 1918 until 2008, when production of Holton-branded instruments moved to Eastlake, Ohio. The business remained independent until it was acquired by Leblanc in 1964. Leblanc was acquired by Conn-Selmer in 2004 and its properties became subsidiaries of Conn-Selmer.\n\nFrank E. Holton was born March 10, 1858 in Allegan, Michigan to farmers Otis (b. 1827) and Hanna A. (b. 1829) Holton. He grew up with three sisters: Emma E. Holton, Alice Holton and Leona Holton. By the time he was 34, Frank Holton was an accomplished trombone player and principal trombone of the Sousa Band, a role that would later be filled by Arthur Pryor. In 1885 he had partnered with James Warren York in York & Holton, before he established his own company in 1898.\n\nFrank Holton's wife Florence was a music teacher. They had no children. Frank Holton, though not an instrument maker himself, expanded his company to manufacture instruments which was his occupation until retiring at age 80. Frank Holton died after a protracted illness on April 16, 1942 at the age of 84.\n\nFrank Holton's first business venture on his own was a small rented shop with a desk, two counters and two chairs that he had to paint himself at Clark and Madison streets in Chicago, in 1898, where he sold used instruments and his own formula slide oil for trombone. Unable to make the rent at times, Holton was known to pawn instruments at a shop on Clark Street between 1898 and 1900.\n\nBy 1907, a skilled horn maker had been hired, and the production of Holton instruments required the construction of a factory on the West Side of Chicago. It would be home to Frank Holton & Company for only a decade.\n\nIn April 1918, Holton opened a factory in Elkhorn, Wisconsin moving over 200 employees and 85 carloads of machinery from Chicago. The city had lured Holton to Elkhorn through the efforts of a group of local businessmen, who, acting under city mandate, built the new factory which was turned over to Holton and Co. upon their arrival. That building remained as the core of the Holton factory until the decision in 2008 to merge Holton horn production with King and Conn instruments in Eastlake, Ohio.\n\nWhile the factory had been paid for by the city of Elkhorn, the cost of training skilled labor resulted in the first profits there not being seen until 1920.\n\nAlong with machinery and employees, Holton brought the company band to Elkhorn which would quickly merge with the storied Elkhorn Band, which had been founded in 1840 by Charles Seelye only 3 years after the town of Elkhorn itself. The band had served as the 12th Regimental Band from 1861 to 1864 during the Civil War.\n\nAlready building a full line of high-end brass instruments, Holton recognized the growth of music in the schools and began selling student-line instruments built by other workshops under the trade names \"Pertin\" and \"Beaufort\". Holton also began production of saxophones in the late Chicago days, and would remain in production of such instruments into the post World War II era. Holton saxophones never enjoyed the reputation or sales of their competitors C.G. Conn, Buescher, Martin, or King, but generate interest for the idiosyncratic keywork on some early models. In the early 1930s the Holton \"Collegiate\" line of student horns was introduced, which would last through the 1970s. After 2004 the defunct Collegiate line was re-introduced by Conn-Selmer under their Holton brand, again targeting a balance of quality and price suitable for school music programs.\n\nIn addition to building the company in Elkhorn, Frank Holton also built a subdivision of 5 and 6 room bungalows in 1919. The 25 homes were priced in the $3,000 to $4,000 range.\n\nAfter retiring, at age 82 Frank Holton sold the company to employee William Kull. The company was run from that point forward by sales manager Elliot Kehl, though Kull would retain the title CEO until he died in 1944.\n\nDuring World War II, the company performed defense work, as did most all instrument manufacturers. Following the war, Elliot Kehl secured a controlling interest in the company and began development of several new products including the \"Farkas Model\" French horn and a new line of saxophones. The \"Stratodyne\" was Holton's top line saxophone from 1948 to 1958 and the last model sold as a professional saxophone by Holton.\n\nHolton became the supplier for Leblanc's \"Vito\" line of student-line brasswinds and (briefly) saxophones in 1951. Leblanc acquired Holton in 1964 and phased out the \"Collegiate\" saxophone line in favor of their Vito-branded instruments. The Collegiate brand for brasswinds was terminated in 1980. From 1971 on, Leblanc used the \"Martin Committee\" brand on some Holton model brasswinds.\n\nLeblanc was acquired by Conn-Selmer in 2004. In 2008, the Elkhorn factory was closed and production was moved to the Eastlake, Ohio plant that produces King and C.G. Conn brasswinds. Conn-Selmer currently produces Holton-branded cornets, trumpets, french horns, trombones, and slide and valve oil. Some of the featured products built during the post-acquisition period include:\n\nThe Holton company relied on endorsement by leading artists as one of its primary marketing tools. Often these artists collaborated on the design of instruments that they would then play and promote. Some would subsequently leave Holton to build instruments themselves.\n\nAmong these were :\n\nNot all ventures with artists were successful. The \"Holton Falcone Model\" baritone horn, developed at the end of the 1970s with input from the namesake of the Leonard Falcone International Tuba and Euphonium Festival was dropped after only a short run when Leonard Falcone refused to endorse or play on the production version. There is no record of the popular 1920s saxophone player Rudy Wiedoeft ever having played on his namesake instrument produced by Holton.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263006", "title": "Councils of Carthage", "text": "Councils of Carthage\n\nThe Councils of Carthage were church synods held during the 3rd, 4th, and 5th centuries in the city of Carthage in Africa. The most important of these are described below.\n\nIn May 251 a synod, assembled under the presidency of Cyprian to consider the treatment of the Lapsi, excommunicated Felicissimus and five other Novatian bishops (Rigorists), and declared that the lapsi should be dealt with, not with indiscriminate severity, but according to the degree of individual guilt. These decisions were confirmed by a synod of Rome in the autumn of the same year. Other Carthaginian synods concerning the lapsi were held in 252 and 254.\n\nTwo synods, in 255 and 256, held under Cyprian, pronounced against the validity of heretical baptism, thus taking direct issue with Stephen I, bishop of Rome, who promptly repudiated them. A third synod in September 256, possibly following the repudiation, unanimously reaffirmed the position of the other two. Stephen's claims to authority as bishop of bishops were sharply resented, and for some time the relations of the Roman and African sees were severely strained.\n\n\nAround 345–348 under Gratus a synod of orthodox bishops, who had met to record their gratitude for the effective official repression of the Circumcelliones (Donatists), declared against the rebaptism of any one who had been baptized in the name of the Trinity, and adopted twelve canons of clerical discipline.\n\nThe Council of Carthage, called the third by Denzinger, issued a canon of the Bible on 28 August 397. The primary source of information about the third Council of Carthage comes from the \"Codex Canonum Ecclesiæ Africanæ\", which presents a compilation of ordinances enacted by various church councils in Carthage during the fourth and fifth centuries. In one section of this code the following paragraph concerning the canon of Scripture appears.\n\nThe \"five books of Solomon\", according to Augustine, were Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Song of Songs, Wisdom of Solomon, and Ecclesiasticus.\n\nThe Conference of Carthage, held by the command of the Emperor Honorius in 411 with a view to terminating the Donatist schism, while not strictly a synod, was one of the most important assemblies in the history of the African sees, and of the whole Catholic Church. It was presided over by Marcellinus of Carthage who found in favour of the orthodox party, which led to the violent suppression of the Donatists.\n\nOn 1 May 418 a minor synod (Augustine of Hippo called it A Council of Africa), which assembled under the presidency of Aurelius, bishop of Carthage, to take action concerning the errors of Caelestius, a disciple of Pelagius, denounced the Pelagian doctrines of human nature, original sin, grace, and perfectibility; and it fully approved the contrary views of Augustine.\n\nThe synod issued eight canons\n\nThe Canons made at this council are often called The Code of Canons of the African Church. It was attended by 217 bishops, which held two sessions, May 25 and 30. \"In the year 418-19, all canons formerly made in sixteen councils held at Carthage, one at Milevis, one at Hippo, that were approved of, were read, and received a new sanction from a great number of bishops, then met in synod at Carthage. This Collection is the Code of the African Church, which was always in greatest repute in all Churches next after the Code of the Universal Church. This code was of very great authority in the old English Churches, for many of the Excerptions of Egbert were transcribed from it... these African Canons are inserted into the Ancient Code both of the Eastern and Western Churches.\"\n\nHere is a list of the various councils which made the enactments, with their dates.\n\n\nIn total 138 Canons (counted as 135 in the Greek) were issued at this council.\n\nApiarius, deposed by Urbanus, Bishop of Sicca, for grave misconduct, appealed to Pope Zosimus, who, in view of irregularities in the bishop's procedure, ordered that the priest should be reinstated, and his bishop disciplined. Vexed, perhaps, at the unworthy priest's success, a general synod of Carthage, in May, 418, forbade appeal \"beyond the seas\" of clerics inferior to bishops. Recognizing in what was virtually a restatement of previous African legislation an expression of displeasure on the part of the African bishops, Pope Zosimus sent a delegation to defend his right to receive certain appeals, citing decrees believed by him to have been enacted at the Council of Nicaea, but which in fact were canons of the council of Sardica. The African bishops who met the legates, while not recognizing these decrees as Nicene, accepted them pending verification. This led to a tedious delay of the council. In May, 419, was held the sixteenth Council of Carthage, and there again the representations of Zosimus were accepted, awaiting the result of a comparison of the Nicene canons as they existed in Africa, in which the decrees cited by the Pope had not been found, with those of the churches of Antioch, Alexandria and Constantinople. By the end of the year 419, Pope Boniface, who had succeeded Zosimus in December, 418, was informed that the eastern codices did not contain the alleged decrees; but, as the now repentant Apiarius had meantime been assigned to a new field of labour, interest in the affair subsided.\n\nThe matter was reopened a few years later, when Apiarius, who had been deposed a second time, on new charges, again appealed to Rome for reinstatement. Faustinus, the Roman legate, reappeared at the Synod of 424 and demanded the annulment of the sentence passed on the priest. Apiarius, however, broke down under examination, and admitted his guilt. A synodal letter to Rome emphasized how needful it was that Rome should not lightly credit all complainants from Africa, nor receive into fellowship such as had been excommunicated; and lastly, requested the pope to send no more legates to execute his judgments.\n\nThe Vandal Synod of Carthage (484) was a largely unsuccessful church council meeting called by the Vandal King Huneric to persuade the orthodox bishops in his recently acquired North African territories to convert to Arian Christianity. The orthodox bishops refused and many, including Fulgentius of Ruspe and Tiberiumus, were exiled to Sardinia, and some executed. The \"Notitia Provinciarum at Civitatum Africa\" says that nearly 500 went into exile. The bishops had requested that orthodox bishops from outside Huneric's dominions be allowed to attend but this was refused, the king saying \"When you make me master of the whole world, then what you want shall be done\". The synod appears to have been an exercise in royal browbeating more than a genuine debate, with bias toward Arian bishops.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263009", "title": "Where Is the Line", "text": "Where Is the Line\n\n\"Where Is the Line\" is a song recorded by Icelandic singer Björk for her fifth studio album \"Medúlla\". It was written by the singer herself and co-produced with longtime collaborator Mark Bell. The track was originally intended to be released as the album's third commercial single, but its release was cancelled just before Björk released the \"Drawing Restraint 9\" soundtrack, in order to focus all promotional efforts on the film and soundtrack instead. Some promotional white labels vinyls were released around 2005. A music video for the song was made by Icelandic Artist Gabríela Friðriksdóttir. Upon the cancellation of the single, the video was used as part of a video installation project by Friðriksdóttir.\n\n\"Where Is the Line\" features a contribution by beatboxer Rahzel. According to Björk, she e-mailed \"Where Is the Line\" to British musician Mark Bell, who a year later replied with a little idea for it. She wanted to make an arrangement like the one for \"Brennið þið Vitar\", an Icelandic choir piece. After she did it, the song \"started to scream for a vocal only version. We tried very hard very long and when finally Rahzel came and sang a beat that we had programmed, gave us some noises we edited into it, it finally fell into place in end of April I think it was and I was so happy when I heard the first playthrough of the only vocal version that I silently cried. It felt great, hard tough work but really really worth it\". In an interview with \"Uncut\", Björk revealed that she kept hearing \"Bohemian Rhapsody\" by Queen in her head when I was editing \"Where Is the Line\" and \"Vökuró\", another track on \"Medúlla\". She also thought that \"they have the same epic playfulness. I don't know if other people will detect the humour, but I think they're both really funny songs. There's something impressive and ridiculous about them\". \"Where Is the Line\" is a dark song in which Björk attacks her younger brother for being greedy and unreliable. In its lyrics, the singer displays some irritation: \"I'm elastic for you, but enough is enough\".\n\n\"Today\" website was positive towards \"Where Is the Line\", and said that it was no coincidence\" that one of \"the most exciting tracks\" on the album contained more percussion and instrumentation than the others. Theon Weber from \"Spin\" magazine said the song \"assault[s] the listener with a hail of vocal gunfire\".\n\nHeather Phares of AllMusic commented that the track was one of Björk's \"tough, no-nonsense songs\", and \"Rahzel's hard-hitting beats make it starker than anything on \"Homogenic\"\".\n\nThe music video for \"Where Is the Line\" was directed by Icelandic artist Gabríela Friðriksdóttir and shot at a stable in Iceland, in November 2004. It was premiered during Friðriksdóttir's exposition at the Venice Biennale in 2005. Originally being one of three films from the artist's \"Versations Tetralogia\", then edited to fit \"Where Is The Line\". It shows Björk wearing a dress made of sandbags and standing in a barn full of hay. She gives birth to a convulsing person (dancer Erna Ómarsdóttir) covered in a white stickiness who, after a wild dance, withdraws back inside the host. After a series of explosions, a number of creatures made of hay emerge from the hay stacks. They surround her and cover her with their bodies on the ground until she is no longer visible. The video was included on the DVD \"The Medúlla Videos\", which included all music videos from \"Medúlla\", released in 2005.\n\nBjörk premiered \"Where Is the Line\" on the Greatest Hits Tour in 2003, along with other three tracks from \"Medúlla\". The song has also been performed on the Volta Tour in 2007 and 2008. Additionally, \"Where Is the Line\" was performed along with musician Mike Patton, best known as the lead singer of the alternative metal band Faith No More, on the Biophilia Tour on 28 May 2013, in San Francisco. The song was also added to the setlist of some shows of the Vulnicura Tour in 2015.\n\nThe track was covered by Michael Wollny and Heinz Sauer on their album \"Certain Beauty\", under the title \"Where is the Line (With You)\". The track was also included on a compilation album released by Rough Trade, titled \"The Record Shop - 30 Years of Rough Trade Shops\". The track was chosen by Richard Russell. A remix by Mike Patton, who contributed to the original song, was made available for download on War Child Music in April 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263015", "title": "List of South African provincial capitals", "text": "List of South African provincial capitals\n\nThe following is a list of the capitals of the provinces of South Africa.\n"}
{"id": "2263018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263018", "title": "Maritime Rescue Co-ordination Centre", "text": "Maritime Rescue Co-ordination Centre\n\nThe Hong Kong Maritime Rescue Co-ordination Centre (HKMRCC) is responsible for coordinating air-sea rescue in Hong Kong and an extensive area of the South China Sea. Besides the territorial waters of Hong Kong, the area includes international waters lying to the north of latitude 10° north, to the west of longitude 120° east, and bounded by mainland China, Vietnam, the Philippines and Taiwan. The area covered is known as the Hong Kong Maritime Search and Rescue Region.\n\nThe MRCC is a co-ordination centre and neither possesses nor has direct command over search and rescue (SAR) resources. Its role is to co-ordinate all available SAR resources to perform a maritime search and rescue mission. In doing this it may call on the resources of:\n\n\nFor administrative purposes, the MRCC forms part of the Hong Kong Marine Department.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263020", "title": "The Oppressed", "text": "The Oppressed\n\nThe Oppressed is a Welsh Oi! band that formed in 1981 in Cardiff, Wales. Most of the musicians in the band's various lineups have been skinheads. Throughout the band's career, the members (especially vocalist Roddy Moreno) openly expressed opposition to racism and fascism — in their lyrics, interviews, on-stage comments and other actions. In 1989, Moreno visited New York City and met a few members of Skinheads Against Racial Prejudice (SHARP). On his return to the United Kingdom, he started promoting SHARP ideals to British skinheads. The band has also had ties to other anti-racist groups, such as Anti-Fascist Action. Moreno is a Cardiff City F.C. supporter, and some of the band's songs express that support. \n\nThe band has split and re-formed several times, the first occasion in 1984 after which Moreno focused on his record labels, Oi! Records and Ska Records for the remainder of the decade. \n\nTheir most recent split was in 2016, but they re-formed in 2020, and continue performing today.\n\n2020 line up is Roddy Moreno, Vocals/Guitar. Founder Member Russell (Ducky) Payne, Guitar. Che Jones, Drums. Ross Goldworthy, Bass.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
