{"id": "2283486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283486", "title": "Flag of Ulster", "text": "Flag of Ulster\n\nThe flag of Ulster is a historic banner based on the coat of arms of Ulster, used to represent Ulster, one of the four provinces of Ireland. It consists of a red cross on a gold background with a red hand on a white shield in the centre.\n\nThe flag of Ulster came about when Walter de Burgh, 1st Earl of Ulster became earl of the Earldom of Ulster in 1243. He merged the de Burgh family heraldry, which was a red cross on a yellow background with that of the Red Hand of Ulster of the Irish over-kingdom of Ulaid, which the earldom encompassed.\n\nThe de Burgh heraldry is said to have come about after Hubert de Burgh, 1st Earl of Kent had fought in the Third Crusade but had no coat of arms himself. He carried a gold coloured shield into battle. Following a battle, King Richard the Lionheart of England gave de Burgh a coat of arms by dipping his finger into the blood of a saracen slain at the feet of de Burgh and marked a red cross onto de Burgh's shield; stating \"for your bravery, this shall be your crest\".\n\nThe origin of the Red Hand of Ulster however is shrouded in mystery, though there was dispute throughout the early modern period over what Irish clan had the right to it. Either the Magennises who were the ruling dynasty of the Uí Echach Cobo, part of the original Ulaid, or the O'Neill's, the ruling dynasty of the Cenél nEógain, who after 1317 claimed the kingship of Ulaid for the first time. Eventually in 1908 the then head of the O'Neill clan admitted that it originally belonged to the Magennises.\n\nThere is often debate as to if a \"dexter\" (right) or \"sinister\" (left) hand is to be used on the flag. Whilst usually a right hand is used on the flag, several organisations such as the former 36th (Ulster) Division that also used a left hand. The symbols also appear in heraldry for some of the counties of Ulster. The counties of Antrim, Fermanagh, Londonderry and Tyrone all use a right red hand in their coats of arms. County Louth also use a right hand but theirs is skin coloured as it symbolises the hand of God rather than the red hand of Ulster.\n\nOne interpretation of the colours gold, red, and white is certified by the British Flag Institute, in agreement with Vexillology Ireland.\n\nIn the 20th century, during the partition of Ireland, the flag of Ulster was used as the basis for creating the Ulster Banner to be used as the flag of Northern Ireland. The background was changed to white with the shield behind the hand being replaced to a six pointed star to symbolise the six provinces of Ulster that made up Northern Ireland with a crown on top to symbolise loyalty to the United Kingdom. The provincial flag of Ulster is occasionally referred to as the \"9 counties flag\". The Ulster Banner is also referred to as the flag of Ulster. In 2018, it was revealed following a Freedom of Information request that Police Scotland listed that flying the flag of Ulster provocatively in Scotland could be considered an offence under the Criminal Justice and Licencing (Scotland) Act 2010 punishable by up to 5 years imprisonment.\n\nThe flag of Ulster is used in sports. In rugby union, the Ireland national rugby union team which represents both Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland fly the flag of Ulster alongside the Irish tricolour at their home matches. However officially, the Irish Rugby Football Union use their own neutral flag which contains symbols of the four provinces of Ireland including Ulster. During the Rugby World Cup, both flags lead the team out. Ulster Rugby which represents the province, use the flag of Ulster but the fans usually use the Ulster Banner. \n\nIn association football, fans of Belfast based Cliftonville use the flag of Ulster during their matches. The Ulster GAA also use the flag during provincial Gaelic games matches. It also features in the Four Provinces Flag used by a number of other sporting organisations that operate on an all-Ireland basis.\n\nThe flag of Ulster is usually displayed alongside the flags of Leinster, Munster, Connacht, or as part of the combined flag of the Provinces of Ireland.\nThe flag is the official flag of the Ulster Gaelic Athletic Association and the Ulster rugby team, and is part of the IRFU four provinces flag and the Ireland hockey team flag.\n"}
{"id": "2283490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283490", "title": "Ardeshir Zahedi", "text": "Ardeshir Zahedi\n\nArdeshir Zahedi, GCVO (; born 16 October 1928) is a former Iranian diplomat who served as the country's foreign minister (1966-1971) and its ambassador to the United States and the United Kingdom during the 1960s and 1970s.\n\nBorn in Tehran on 16 October 1928, he is the son of General Fazlollah Zahedi, who served as prime minister after participating in the CIA-led coup which led to the fall of Mohammed Mossadegh. Zahedi received a degree in agriculture from Utah State University in 1950, where he was a member of Kappa Sigma. Seven years later, he married the daughter of the Shah of Iran, Princess Shahnaz Pahlavi; the marriage ended in divorce in 1964.\n\nZahedi served as ambassador to the United States from 1960 to 1962 and to the United Kingdom from 1962 to 1966. Under Prime Minister Amir Abbas Hoveida, he served as minister of foreign affairs from 1966 to 1971.\n\nZahedi again became ambassador to the United States from 1973 until the Iranian Revolution climaxed in January 1979. During his second stint in Washington, he won a reputation for extravagance. In the mid-1970s, Zahedi became known as a companion of the American actress Elizabeth Taylor. During the 1977 Hanafi Siege of a federal building in Washington, Zahedi and two other ambassadors from Muslim nations were able to talk the hostage-takers into surrendering and releasing 149 hostages.\nOver the course of 1978, it was reported in some circles that Zahedi urged the Shah to appease the rioters by making scapegoats of several high-ranking officials, including Amir Abbas Hoveida (then Prime Minister) and SAVAK director Nematollah Nassiri. When the Shah left Iran in 1979, Zahedi was still serving as ambassador in Washington, but resigned as soon as Khomeini came to power. He started fervent attempts at securing political asylum for the ailing Shah and the Imperial family in Panama, Mexico, Morocco and finally Egypt. He was present at the Shah's death bed and funeral in Cairo in 1980.\n\nZahedi is now retired and living in Montreux, Switzerland. He received honorary doctoral degrees of law and humanities from Utah State University, East Texas State University, Kent State University, St. Louis University, University of Texas, Montana State University, Washington College, Westminster College, Harvard University, Chung-Ang University of Seoul, and the College of Political and Social Science of Lima in Peru. In December 1976, in a ceremony held in Washington D.C., Zahedi was awarded the Kappa Sigma Fraternity ‘Man of the Year’ Award. In 2002, he was inducted into the Alumni Hall of Honor of the Utah State University College of Agriculture. He received many awards and honors from nations around the globe for his humanitarian service and record in international affairs.\n\nIn an interview in May 2006, Zahedi voiced his support for Iran's Nuclear Program stating it as an \"inalienable right of Iran\", under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT). He told Voice of America that the U.S. approved the start of Iran's $50 billion nuclear program in the 1970s. Two documents in particular, dated 22 April 1975 and 20 April 1976, show that the United States and Iran held negotiations on a nuclear program and the U.S. was willing to help Iran by setting up uranium enrichment and fuel reprocessing facilities.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2283494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283494", "title": "Ulster Flag", "text": "Ulster Flag\n\nUlster Flag may refer to two different flags:\n\n"}
{"id": "2283501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283501", "title": "Charles Chibitty", "text": "Charles Chibitty\n\nCharles Joyce Chibitty (November 20, 1921 – July 20, 2005) was a Native American and United States Army code talker in World War II, who helped transmit coded messages in the Comanche (Nʉmʉnʉʉ) language on the battlefield as a radio operator in the European Theatre of the war.\n\nIn 2013, Native American Code Talkers of World War I and II, represented by 33 Native American tribes, received the Congressional Gold Medal from the President of the United States at the U.S. Capitol. The Comanche code talkers were credited with saving the lives of thousands of American and Allied personnel.\n\nChibitty was born in a small tent outside of Medicine Park, Oklahoma, a city located 14 miles north-west of Lawton. He attended Fort Sill Indian School as a child. While a high school student at the Haskell Indian School in Lawrence, Kansas,\nThe U.S. Army was searching for American Indians including Comanche Indians for the Signal Corps in late 1940, and in 1941, to serve as code talkers in the European Theatre.\n\nHe entered military service on January 2, 1941, and was assigned to the 4th Infantry Division at Fort Benning, Georgia. After basic training, he was assigned to the 4th Signal Company at Fort Benning where 17 Comanche Nation code talkers were to develop a secret code to prevent German forces from deciphering U.S. military messages. In late December, he was next sent with the division to then-Camp Gordon (Fort Gordon), Georgia. Chibitty served at Camp Gordon with the other hand-picked Comanche Indians who began training at Fort Benning as army radio operators and line repairmen. In April 1943, he and 13 of the other code talkers were next sent with the 4th Infantry Division to Fort Dix, New Jersey, Camp Gordon Johnston, Florida, Fort Jackson, South Carolina, and Camp Kilmer, New Jersey, to stage for the European Theater. On January 18, 1944, the 4th Infantry Division shipped out of New York for England for more training and arrived January 26. In England, the division trained as the spearhead amphibious division for the invasion of Normandy.\n\nChibitty and 12 other Comanche code talkers from the 4th Signal Company were reassigned to be with the landing infantry regiments, division artillery, and division headquarters. The other code talker (Sgt. Morris Sunrise), was transferred to another division. The 13 Comanche code talkers in the 4th Division, including Cpl. (T/5) Chibitty, landed at Utah Beach in Normandy, France, on June 6, 1944 (\"D-Day\"). Assigned to the 22nd Infantry Regiment, the first words sent from Chibitty on the beach to his command unit in Comanche talk that day were interpreted in English as:\n\nThe 14 Comanche code talkers participated in the Battle of Normandy, Battle of the Bulge, and other battles. Although none of the code talkers were killed in action, several were wounded in action, including Chibitty and his first cousin, Pfc. Larry Saupitty.\n\nIn 1989, Chibitty and Comanche code talkers Roderick Red Elk and Forrest Kassanavoid were presented with the Chevalier of the Ordre National du Mérite, and named Knights of the National Order of Merit by the French government; the 14 deceased Comanche Code Talkers were also included in the recognition-award ceremony. The role of Comanche code talkers in World War II was not recognized by the United States until 1999, in which Chibbity received the Knowlton Award from The Pentagon as the last surviving Comanche code talker.\n\nChibitty, who was the last living Comanche code talker, died due to diabetes complications on July 20, 2005, at a hospital in Tulsa. He is buried at Floral Haven Memorial Gardens in Broken Arrow, Oklahoma.\n\nChibitty's decorations and awards include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2283503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283503", "title": "List of awards and nominations received by Will &amp; Grace", "text": "List of awards and nominations received by Will &amp; Grace\n\nWill & Grace is an American sitcom created by Max Mutchnick and David Kohan about the relationship between best friends Will Truman (Eric McCormack), a gay lawyer, and Grace Adler (Debra Messing), a straight interior designer. It was broadcast on NBC from September 21, 1998 to May 18, 2006, for a total of eight seasons. During its original run, \"Will & Grace\" was one of the most successful television series with gay principal characters. It was revived by NBC in 2017 for a ninth and tenth season.\n\nDespite initial criticism for its particular portrayal of homosexual characters, it has been met with continued critical acclaim and won several major awards, including sixteen Primetime Emmy Awards, seven Screen Actors Guild Awards and twenty-nine Golden Globe Award nominations.\n\nThe Primetime Emmy Award is an American award bestowed by the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences in recognition of excellence in American primetime television programming. \"Will & Grace\" has received 18 awards from 88 nominations, including an award for each main cast member. In addition to this, there have been three times when all four main actors were nominated for their respective category in the same year: 2000, 2001 and 2003.\n\nThe Screen Actors Guild Award is an accolade given by the Screen Actors Guild‐American Federation of Television and Radio Artists to recognize outstanding performances in film and primetime television. \"Will & Grace\" has received seven awards from twenty-one nominations.\n\nThe Golden Globe Award is an accolade bestowed by the 93 members of the Hollywood Foreign Press Association, recognizing excellence in film and television, both domestic and foreign. \"Will & Grace\" has received 30 nominations.\n\nThe Television Critics Association Awards are awards presented by the Television Critics Association in recognition of excellence in television. \"Will & Grace\" received eight nominations.\n\nThe ADG Excellence in Production Design Awards are an award presented annually by the Art Directors Guild to recognize excellence in production design and art direction in the film and television industries. \"Will & Grace\" received two awards from four nominations.\n\nFounded in 1950, American Cinema Editorsis an honorary society of film editors that are voted in based on the qualities of professional achievements, their education of others, and their dedication to editing. \"Will & Grace\" received one award from three nominations.\n\nThe American Comedy Awards are a group of awards presented annually in the United States recognizing performances and performers in the field of comedy, with an emphasis on television comedy and comedy films. \"Will & Grace\" received two awards from nine nominations.\n\nThe American Latino Media Arts Award is an award highlighting the best American Latino contributions to music, television, and film. \"Will & Grace\" received two nominations.\n\nThe British Comedy Awards are an annual awards ceremony in the United Kingdom celebrating notable comedians and entertainment performances of the previous year. \"Will & Grace\" received one nomination.\n\nSince October 1985, the Casting Society of America has presented the Artios Awards for excellence in casting. Members are honored in over eighteen different theatrical casting categories in simultaneous events held in New York City and Beverly Hills, California. \"Will & Grace\" received three awards from nine nominations.\n\nThe Critics' Choice Television Awards have been presented annually by the Broadcast Television Journalists Association since 2011. \"Will & Grace\" has received one nomination.\n\nFounded in 1999, the Costume Designers Awards honors costume designers in Motion Pictures, Television, and Commercials annually. \"Will & Grace\" received three nominations.\n\nThe Directors Guild of America Awards are issued annually by the Directors Guild of America. The first DGA Award was an “Honorary Life Member” award issued in 1938 to D. W. Griffith. The statues are made by New York firm, Society Awards. \"Will & Grace\" received one award from seven nominations.\n\nThe GLAAD Media Award is an accolade bestowed by the Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation to recognize and honor various branches of the media for their outstanding representations of the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) community and the issues that affect their lives. \"Will & Grace\" received seven awards from eight nominations.\n\nThe National Television Awards is a British television awards ceremony, broadcast by the ITV network and initiated in 1995. The National Television Awards are the most prominent ceremony for which the results are voted on by the general public. \"Will & Grace\" received two nominations.\n\nThe People's Choice Awards is an American awards show, recognizing the people and the work of popular culture, voted on by the general public. \"Will & Grace\" received two awards.\n\nThe Producers Guild of America Award was originally established in 1990 by the Producers Guild of America as the Golden Laurel Awards, created by PGA Treasurer Joel Freeman with the support of Guild President Leonard Stern, in order to honor the visionaries who produce and execute motion picture and television product. \"Will & Grace\" received five nominations.\n\nThe Rose d'Or (Golden Rose) is an international awards festival in entertainment broadcasting and programming. \"Will & Grace\" received one award.\n\nThe Satellite Awards are annual awards given by the International Press Academy that are commonly noted in entertainment industry journals and blogs. \"Will & Grace\" received two awards from nine nominations.\n\nThe Teen Choice Awards is an annual awards show that airs on the Fox television network. The awards honor the year's biggest achievements in music, movies, sports, television, fashion, and more, voted by adolescent viewers (ages 10 to 15). \"Will & Grace\" received three awards from fourteen nominations.\n\nThe \"TV Guide\" Award was an annual award created by the editors of \"TV Guide\" magazine, as a readers poll to honor outstanding programs and performers in the American television industry. \"Will & Grace\" received two awards from four nominations.\n\nThe TV Land Awards is an American television awards ceremony that generally commemorates shows now off the air, rather than in current production as with the Emmys. \"Will & Grace\" received two nominations.\n\nViewers for Quality Television was an American nonprofit organization founded in 1984 to advocate network television series that members of the organization voted to be of the \"highest quality.\" The group's goal was to rescue \"...critically acclaimed programs from cancellation despite their Nielsen program rating.\" \"Will & Grace\" received one award from eleven nominations.\n\nThe Writers Guild of America Awards for outstanding achievements in film, television, radio, and video game writing, including both fiction and non-fiction categories, have been presented annually by the Writers Guild of America, East and Writers Guild of America, West since 1949. \"Will & Grace\" has received two nominations.\n\nThe Young Artist Award is an accolade bestowed by the Young Artist Association, a non-profit organization founded in 1978 to honor excellence of youth performers, and to provide scholarships for young artists who may be physically and/or financially challenged. \"Will & Grace\" received one nomination.\n"}
{"id": "2283506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283506", "title": "Group Areas Act", "text": "Group Areas Act\n\nGroup Areas Act was the title of three acts of the Parliament of South Africa enacted under the apartheid government of South Africa. The acts assigned racial groups to different residential and business sections in urban areas in a system of urban apartheid. An effect of the law was to exclude non-Whites from living in the most developed areas, which were restricted to Whites (e.g., Sea Point, Lansdowne, Cape Town, Claremont, Cape Town). It caused many non-Whites to have to commute large distances from their homes in order to be able to work. The law led to non-Whites being forcibly removed for living in the \"wrong\" areas. The non-white majority were given much smaller areas (e.g., Tongaat, Grassy Park) to live in than the white minority who owned most of the country. Pass Laws required that non-Whites carry pass books, and later 'reference books' (similar to passports) to enter the 'white' parts of the country.\n\nThe first Group Areas Act, the \"Group Areas Act, 1950\" was promulgated on 7 July 1950, and it was implemented over a period of several years. It was amended by Parliament in 1952, 1955 (twice), 1956 and 1957. Later in 1957 it was repealed and re-enacted in consolidated form as the \"Group Areas Act, 1957\", which was amended in 1961, 1962, and 1965. In 1966 this version was in turn repealed and re-enacted as the \"Group Areas Act, 1966\", which was subsequently amended in 1969, 1972, 1974, 1975, 1977, 1978, 1979, 1982, and 1984. It was repealed (along with many other discriminatory laws) on 30 June 1991 by the Abolition of Racially Based Land Measures Act, 1991.\n\nAfter the 1948 general election, D.F. Malan's administration commenced its policy of apartheid that sought to segregate the races in South Africa. The government hoped to achieve this through 'separate development' of the races and this entailed passing laws that would ensure a distinction on social, economic, political and, in the case of the Group Areas Act, geographical lines. The Group Areas Act may be regarded as an extension of the Asiatic Land Tenure Act, 1946. Nelson Mandela stated in his book, \"Long Walk to Freedom\" that \"the Groups Areas Act was the foundation of residential apartheid. Under its regulations, each racial group could own land, occupy premises, and trade only in its own separate area. Indians could henceforth only live in Indian areas, Africans in African, Coloureds in Coloured. If whites wanted the land or houses of the other groups, they could simply declare that land a white area and take them\".\n\nThe Act empowered the Governor-General to declare certain geographical areas to be for the exclusive occupation of specific racial groups. In particular the statute identified three such racial groups: whites, coloureds and natives. This authority was exercised on the advice of the Minister of the Interior and the Group Areas Board.\n\nOnce an area had been designated for sole occupation by certain racial groups, the proclamation would not become legally effective for at least one year. Once this time had expired, it became a criminal offence to remain in occupation of property in that area with the punishment potentially being a fine and two years' imprisonment.\n\nThe Act also applied to businesses with racial designation being applied on the basis of the individuals who held a controlling interest in the company.\n\nThe Act became an effective tool in the separate development of races in South Africa. It also granted the Minister of the Interior a mandate to forcibly remove non-whites from valuable pieces of land so that they could become white settlements.\n\nOne of the most famous uses of the Group Areas Act was the destruction of Sophiatown, a suburb of Johannesburg. On 9 February 1955, 2,000 policemen began removing residents to Meadowlands, Soweto and erected a new white-only area called \"Triomf\" (Victory).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2283509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283509", "title": "Aquilonia (Conan)", "text": "Aquilonia (Conan)\n\nAquilonia is a fictional country created by Robert E. Howard for the fictional character Conan the Barbarian, who eventually becomes its king. The mythical country existed during the Hyborian Age. Howard was precise concerning the geographic relationships between his fictional world and the real world, placing it in modern France and southern Britain, but left the origins of Aquilonia vague. In the real world, it was an ancient battle, and a Roman city. See Aquilonia. Stygia (Egypt) was far to the south in the Hyborian age.\n\nHoward first described Aquilonia in an essay about the nine Hyborian kingdoms that existed when the borders finally stabilized. It is a western kingdom bordered by Zingara to the southwest, the Pictish Wilderness to the west, Cimmeria to the north, Border Kingdom to the northeast, Nemedia to the east, and Ophir and Argos to the south. The Border Kingdoms started as Hyborian colonies and maintained their independence because its more powerful neighbors preferred this relatively harmless entity at their borders than having to engage each other in a territorial war.\n\nThe people of Aquilonia are related to the Zingarans, but the mixed racial heritage of these coastal peoples led Howard to discount them as Hyborians. He described the Zingarans as darker skinned than their Hyborian cousins and exotic in their habits. Though he points out that this description also fits the people of Zamora, the two kingdoms and their populations are not related.\n\nAquilonia would emerge as the most powerful of the Hyborian kingdoms. The Hyborian culture of the time was described by Howard as dynamic, and its civilizing influence was felt by most of their barbarian neighbors. The Hyborians of the time had a mixed heritage and no longer closely resembled their ancestors, though Howard points out that this mixed heritage hadn't weakened them in any way. Slavery was widespread in the Hyborian world, creating the unintended side-effect of slaves mating with their masters. This produced bloodlines of mixed heritage in most kingdoms of the time, Hyborian or not.\n\nAquilonia itself contains at least three provinces with distinct cultural and hereditary differences from other Aquilonians. The province of Gunderland to the north of the country doesn't contain slaves, though Howard didn't give any reasons for their absence here. The people of this province have undergone less interbreeding with other races than any other Hyborians of the time. They resembled the ancient Hyborians more closely than any of the others, remaining tawny-haired and gray-eyed.\n\nThe extended Bossonian Marches extended from the northern border of Zingara, throughout the Pictish border, to the south of Cimmeria, qand the east of the Border Kingdoms. The Bossonians descended from a formerly independent race which was among the first to fall to the Hyborians. By this time, they possessed some Hyborian blood, but were distinctly different in appearance. They were people of average height and skin pigmentation, with either gray or brown eyes, and with mesocephalic skulls.\n\nTheir position at the borders of civilization with the barbarians never allows them to advance to the cultural height of other Hyborians. The Bossonians mostly are farmers settled in fortified villages, and their main concern is the protection of their land from barbarian raids. In effect, this also protects Aquilonia and the Hyborians from facing invasions by Picts or Cimmerians. Centuries of barbarian wars led to the Bossonians being particularly stubborn combatants, and their defense techniques were impenetrable by the direct charges favored by barbarian military commanders.\n\nTo the south, the province of Poitain had borders with Zingara. The relatively peaceful relations between the two civilized Kingdoms allows for people and goods to constantly flow through the borders. Interbreeding with the Zingarans caused the citizens of Poitain to be predominantly dark-haired and brown-eyed.\n\nThe Pictish Wilderness and Zingara borders Aquilonia to the west. At the time of Conan, the Picts are more or less stagnant culturally and have not significantly advanced in millennia. Aquilonians and the Picts often engaged in border wars, where Pictish tribes attempt raids and Aquilonian armies and colonists attempt to expand their kingdom towards the west, but met with fierce resistance. In either case, the profits of these campaigns were meager and costly in terms of casualties.\n\nThe Zingarans are an emerging naval power with a focus on having competitive military and merchant fleets with Argos and Stygia for dominance of the Western Sea. Howard does not mention any significant conflicts with Aquilonia at this point.\n\nThe maps of the Hyborian world depict a small territory where the southern borders of Aquilonia with Zingara and Ophir are at a very small distance from the northern borders of Argos with both states. Howard does not specify the situation of this territory where the forces of four powerful Hyborian kingdoms are at a small distance from each other.\n\nThe southern borders of Aquilonia are with both Zingara and Ophir. Ophir is a gold-mining region. Howard named it after Ophir, an ancient port mentioned in the Books of Kings which was famous for its wealth. Howard envisioned his version of Ophir as a kingdom focused on trade, though it has more of a peripheral role in the Conan stories. By the time of Conan, Aquilonia and Ophir were allies.\n\nThe eastern borders of Aquilonia were with Nemedia, the second most powerful of the Hyborian kingdoms and likely a bit more advanced culturally. The two main competitors for dominance of the Hyborian world would often engage in wars, though neither manages to gain dominance over the other. Nemedia is frequently mentioned in the works of Howard as the main source of Hyborian philosophy and Nemedian priests of Mithra are spread across the Hyborian world in their efforts to convert others to their religion. While Howard never dwells in theology, his version of prehistoric Mithraism is the religion closest resembling monotheism in his works. Howard names his fictional sources for Hyborian Age information as the \"Nemedian Chronicles\", implying that Nemedians are the most renowned historians of the time.\n\nThe northeastern borders of Aquilonia with the Border Kingdoms would serve to prevent Aquilonia from having direct borders with Hyperborea and an even more extensive border with Cimmeria. The extent of Aquilonian influence over this area is uncertain though pastiche writers have depicted Aquilonian colonial efforts.\n\nThe northern borders of Aquilonia are with Cimmeria. The Cimmerians are descendants of the people of Atlantis who managed to survive the cataclysm. They are still barbarians but have avoided the cultural stagnation of the Picts. Howard's essay on the nine kingdoms states that they maintained contact with their northern neighbors in Vanaheim and Asgard, their eastern neighbors in Hyperborea, their southeast neighbors in the Border Kingdoms, their southern neighbors in Aquilonia, and their western neighbors in the Pictish Wilderness. Through these contacts they become increasingly familiar with the advances of other people and undergo a gradual cultural development themselves.\n\nThe Cimmerians are consistent of various warlike tribes. They engage in war with each other when not actively and stubbornly defending their territory from the raids and military invasions of their neighbors. They are fiercely independent and resist all attempts at conquest. They perform raids to the realms of others but are either unable or uninterested in expanding their territories. Aquilonia manages to successfully defend itself from the raids and their efforts to expand in Cimmerian grounds meet with fierce opposition. These borders remain surprisingly stable after centuries of warfare.\n\nBy the time of Conan, the Hyborian kingdoms have centuries of history behind them and are arguably beginning to stagnate. None of them are seemingly able to completely overcome their traditional enemies or get significant territorial gains throughout the long career of this wandering and ambitious Cimmerian.\n\nThe earliest known encounter of Conan with Aquilonians is also his first battle. In another attempt at expansion, the Aquilonians establish a frontier settlement named Venarium within southern Cimmeria. An alliance of Cimmerian tribes eventually discovers this advanced fortress and manages to raid it. A fifteen-year-old Conan is among the victorious combatants. This event is first mentioned in the story \"Beyond the Black River\".\n\nLater, Conan spoke with Balthus, a young Aquilonian, who mentions that the Picts would be unable to resist the Aquilonian expansion because they would never unite and the Aquilonians could wipe out any single clan. Conan has a lot to mention: \"Or any three or four clans. But some day a man will rise and unite thirty or forty clans, just as was done among the Cimmerians, when the Gundermen tried to push the border northward, years ago. They tried to colonize the southern marches of Cimmeria: destroyed a few small clans, built a fort-town, Venarium—you've heard the tale.\"\n\nBalthus had to admit: \"My uncle was at Venarium when the Cimmerians swarmed over the walls. He was one of the few who escaped that slaughter. I've heard him tell the tale, many a time. The barbarians swept out of the hills in a ravening horde, without warning, and stormed Venarium with such fury none could stand before them. Men, women, and children were butchered. Venarium was reduced to a mass of charred ruins, as it is to this day. The Aquilonians were driven back across the marches, and have never since tried to colonize the Cimmerian country. But you speak of Venarium familiarly. Perhaps you were there?\"\n\nConan answers freely: \"I was one of the horde that swarmed over the walls. I hadn't yet seen fifteen snows, but already my name was repeated about the council fires.\"\n\nVarious writers would later expand on the details of this very early combat at the life of the Cimmerian, in both in novels and comic books. In 2004, a novel called \"Conan of Venarium\" would describe this battle. It should be noted, however, that this late novel has been criticized for its version of the Cimmerians and their incompatibility with the Howardian canon. For example, Dale Rippke, a veteran scholar of Conan, has mentioned in his review of the novel that \"Howard’s Cimmerians are barely past the stone-age. They are more evolved than his Picts, in that they are able to work metal, but seem to only scratch out a hand-to-mouth existence in the wilds of Cimmeria. Turtledove has Conan living in Duthil, a medieval town complete with multi-level buildings and a blacksmith shop with a bellows forge. There doesn’t seem to be much hardship at all in Turtledove’s Cimmeria.\"\n\nSurprisingly, Aquilonia plays a peripheral role in most of the stories featuring the adventures of Conan in his youth, as they often take place far to the east and south of the Hyborian world. Conan and other characters do at times mention it in conversation.\n\nIn \"Red Nails\", Conan was active with Valeria in the 'Black Countries of the south, but mentions to her in passing information he had learned from Aquilonians: \"There's strength in union. That's what the Aquilonian renegades used to tell us Cimmerians when they came into the hills to raise an army to invade their own country. But we always fight by clans and tribes.\" Valeria herself was of Aquilonian descent, but Howard never expanded on her background.\n\nIn \"Conan the Rogue\" (1991) by John Maddox Roberts, Conan is first depicted entering Aquilonia in his early forties. He is heading to the capital, Tarantia, to offer his services as a mercenary to the Aquilonian army. This was meant to lead directly to the Howard story \"Beyond the Black River\", where Conan was already serving the Aquilonian military and had, for some time, been assigned at the Pictish border. By the time of this novel, the Aquilonians had advanced past Thunder River, serving as the traditional border, in another effort to expand towards the west. They had expanded all the way to the Black River and named their new area Conajohara. The military fortress of Fort Tuscelan served to contain the army forces assigned to this area. Several civilian settlers had already established households spread throughout Conajohara. Their closest possible reinforcements would come from Fort Velitrium, set by the Thunder River. The Picts, however, aiming to reclaim their territory, posed a constant threat.\n\nConan served loyally, but considered the whole effort of colonization to be both futile and unnecessary: \"The Picts steal over to burn and murder.\" ... \"They don't always come singly. Some day they'll try to sweep the settlers out of Conajohara. And they may succeed—probably will succeed. This colonization business is mad, anyway. There's plenty of good land east of the Bossonian marches. If the Aquilonians would cut up some of the big estates of their barons, and plant wheat where now only deer are hunted, they wouldn't have to cross the border and take the land of the Picts away from them.\" ... \"I'm a mercenary. I sell my sword to the highest bidder. I never planted wheat and never will, so long as there are other harvests to be reaped with the sword. But you Hyborians have expanded as far as you'll be allowed to expand. You've crossed the marches, burned a few villages, exterminated a few clans, and pushed back the frontier to Black River; but I doubt if you'll even be able to hold what you've conquered, and you'll never push the frontier any further westward. Your idiotic king doesn't understand conditions here. He won't send you enough reinforcements, and there are not enough settlers to withstand the shock of a concerted attack from across the river.\"\n\nThe events of the story partly vindicate his views. Pictish tribes, united under the wizard Zogar Sag, manage to destroy Fort Tuscelan and successfully reclaim Conajohara. Conan managed to lead the defense of Velitrium and the Picts suffered sufficient casualties in their attempt in expanding eastward. But, neither could the Aquilonians expand west again after this spectacular failure. The story concluded with the following assessment: \"Barbarism is the natural state of mankind. Civilization is unnatural. It is a whim of circumstance. And barbarism must always ultimately triumph.\"\n\nThe 1978 collection \"Conan the Swordsman\", contains the short story the \"Moon of Blood\" by L. Sprague de Camp and Lin Carter. This story continues directly from \"Beyond the Black River\" and has Conan promoted to a Captain as a result of his actions in the previous story. His continued involvement in the Pictish War earns him a promotion to general and a royal invitation to Tarantia by the end of the story. This story is directly followed by \"The Black Stranger\" (1967), a story started by Howard, but partially rewritten and completed by de Camp. According to it, Conan visited Tarantia in a festival organized by King Numedides for his successes in the border. With the Aquilonian masses hailing Conan as a hero, Numedides began to see the overly popular general as a possible claimant to his throne. Because of this, the suspicious monarch betrayed his general and had him arrested and locked in the Iron Tower, awaiting execution.\n\n\"The Black Stranger\" continues, having Conan aided in escaping imprisonment by a number of Aquilonian allies. Conan flees Tarantia alone, proceeds to the Bossonioan Marches, and swims across the Thunder River. Conan believes that Numedides wouldn't dare pursue him into the Pictish Wilderness, so he decides to risk making a passage to the Western Sea and gets involved in the efforts of both Zingaran and Barachan sea reavers to locate the famed treasure of Tranicos, a successful pirate slain by supernatural means. The end of the story features Conan now in possession of the treasure, having renewed contact with his Aquilonian allies and ready to start a rebellion against Numedides.\n\nThe tale of this rebellion was told in \"Conan the Liberator\" (1979) by de Camp and Carter. The novel characterizes Numedides as being mad, exceedingly cruel, and somewhat ineffectual. The power behind the throne is his sorcerer Thulandra Thuu, who has his own agendas. The novel features several battles, but Conan and Thulandra Thuu also advance in their causes by several more subtle plots or espionage. By the end of the novel, Numedides is killed and Conan claims the crown of Aquilonia for himself.\n\n\"The Phoenix on the Sword\" (1932) is the very first Conan story by Howard, featuring him as a recently crowned king. His reign dates for months, though already various dissenting nobles and their agents had \"honeycombed the empire with sedition and unrest\" . Key persons in his administration by this point included Trocero, Count of Poitain and Seneschal of Aquilonia; Prospero, Poitainian general and \"King Conan's righthand man\"; Pallantides, commander of the Black Dragons (which served as the elite imperial troops); and Publius, \"the high councillor\".\n\nConan has discovered, to his dismay, that \"these matters of statecraft weary (him) as all the fighting (he has) done never did.\" ... \"It seems ages since (he) had a horse between (his) knees - but Publius says that affairs in the city require (his) presence. Curse him!\" ... \"When (he) overthrew the old dynasty, it was easy enough, though it seemed bitter hard at the time. Looking back now over the wild path (he) followed, all those days of toil, intrigue, slaughter and tribulation seem like a dream. (he) did not dream far enough, Prospero\"...\"When King Numedides lay dead at (his) feet and (he) tore the crown from his gory head and set it on (his) own, (he) had reached the ultimate border of (his) dreams. (He) had prepared (himself) to take the crown, not to hold it. In the old free days, all (he) wanted was a sharp sword and a straight path to (his) enemies. Now, no paths are straight and my sword is useless. When I overthrew Numedides, then (he) was the Liberator - now they spit at (his) shadow. They have put a statue of that swine in the temple of Mitra, and people go and wail before it, hailing it as the holy effigy of a saintly monarch who was done to death by a red-handed barbarian. When (he) led her armies to victory as a mercenary, Aquilonia overlooked the fact that (he) was a foreigner, but now she can not forgive (him). Now in Mitra's temple they come to burn incense to Numedides' memory, men whom his hangmen maimed and blinded, men whose sons died in his dungeons, whose wives and daughters were dragged into his seraglio. The fickle fools!\"\n\nHoward accompanied the tale by verses of a Hyborian poem \"The Road of Kings\" which seem to summarize the sentiments of Conan:\nAt this point in Conan's rule, four men are already plotting his assassination. The first is Ascalante, \"once count of Thune\", whose realm has been forfeited. He has been reduced to dwelling in the deserts of the east and raiding caravans for a living. He is summoned back to organize the assassination plot and has plans to claim the throne for himself. The second is Dion, the \"fat\" baron of Attalus, whose great wealth financed their plots and had the main claim to the throne by \"a trace of royal blood\". The third is Gromel, a stubborn Bossonian commander of the Black Legion who desired a promotion to the command of the whole issue. The fourth is an unusual character for the Conan tales: Rinaldo, an idealistic poet with no known personal ambition. He is the main source of propaganda for the memory of Numedides and criticism of Conan. Ascalante describes his ally as following: \"Rinaldo has no personal ambition. He sees in Conan a red-handed, rough-footed barbarian who came out of the north to plunder a civilized land. He idealizes the king whom Conan killed to get the crown, remembering only that he occasionally patronized the arts, and forgetting the evils of his reign, and he is making the people forget. Already they openly sing \"The Lament for the King\" in which Rinaldo lauds the sainted villain and denounces Conan as 'that black-hearted savage from the abyss.' Conan laughs, but the people snarl.\" Actually, Conan was well aware of his poetry, but unwilling to persecute the man: \"He's beyond my reach. A great poet is greater than any king. His songs are mightier than my scepter; for he has near ripped the heart from my breast when he chose to sing for me. I shall die and be forgotten, but Rinaldo's songs will live for ever.\"\n\nThe assassins had managed to remove most of the officials and troops loyal to Conan from the capital, some in diplomatic assignments and some as reinforcement to the still restless Pictish border. They planned to ambush Conan and slay him in his sleep. The plot was thrown off by the involvement of magical forces. Ascalante had enslaved Thoth-Amon, a Stygian sorcerer whose main source of power was the Serpent Ring of Set.\n\nBy the description of Thoth: \"I was a great sorcerer in the south. Men spoke of Thoth-Amon as they spoke of Rammon. King Ctesphon of Stygia gave me great honor, casting down the magicians from the high places to exalt me above them. They hated me, but they feared me, for I controlled beings from outside which came at my call and did my bidding. By Set, mine enemy knew not the hour when he might awake at midnight to feel the taloned fingers of a nameless horror at his throat! I did dark and terrible magic with the Serpent Ring of Set, which I found in a nighted tomb a league beneath the earth, forgotten before the first man crawled out of the slimy sea. But a thief stole the Ring and my power was broken. The magicians rose up to slay me, and I fled. Disguised as a camel-driver, I was travelling in a caravan in the land of Koth, when Ascalante's reavers fell upon us. All in the caravan were slain except myself; I saved my life by revealing my identity to Ascalante and swearing to serve him. Bitter has been that bondage!\"\n\nAscalante uses the Stygian to organize his plot and, before the assassination, sends him to keep an eye on Dion. Dion wouldn't take part in the deed, but awaits its results. Thoth-Amon discovers the baron had in his possession the Serpent Ring, which was sold to him as a good luck charm. in his rage, Toth-Amon slays Dion and reclaims the ring and its power, unleashing a magical entity to find and assassinate Ascalante. The use of this magic awakens Epemitreus the Sage, a Mithraic priest who was dead for 1500 years, whose tomb in Mount Golamira was considered lost. He called on the spirit of Conan and explained to him: \"Your destiny is one with Aquilonia. Gigantic happenings are forming in the web and the womb of Fate, and a blood-mad sorcerer shall not stand in the path of imperial destiny. Ages ago, Set coiled about the world like a python about its prey. All my life, which was as the lives of three common men, I fought him. I drove him into the shadows of the mysterious south, but in dark Stygia men still worship him who to us is the arch-demon. As I fought Set, I fight his worshippers and his votaries and his acolytes. Hold out your sword.\" He blesses Conan's sword with the symbol of a Phoenix, which proved sufficient in slaying the entity.\n\nThe story is followed by \"The Scarlet Citadel\", where Conan faces an assassination plot by Amalrus of Ophir (who was his former ally), Strabonus of Koth, Thosta-Lanti (who served as the power behind the throne of Coth), and Prince Arpello of Pellia, a surviving member of the old Aquilonian dynasty. All four consider him a mere usurper because of his lack of royal blood. Conan, however, proclaims their own unworthiness for their respective thrones: \"How did you come to your crown, you and that black-faced pig beside you? Your fathers did the fighting and the suffering, and handed their crowns to you on golden platters. What you inherited without lifting a finger - except to poison a few brothers - I fought for. You sit on satin and guzzle wine the people sweat for, and talk of divine rights of sovereignty - bah! I climbed out of the abyss of naked barbarism to the throne and in that climb I spilt my blood as freely as I spilt that of others. If either of us has the right to rule men, by Crom, it is I! How have you proved yourselves my superiors? I found Aquilonia in the grip of a pig like you - one who traced his genealogy for a thousand years. The land was torn with the wars of the barons, and the people cried out under oppression and taxation. Today, no Aquilonian noble dares maltreat the humblest of my subjects and the taxes of the people are lighter than anywhere else in the world. What of you? Your brother, Amalrus, holds the eastern half of your kingdom, and defies you. And you, Strabonus, your soldiers are even now besieging castles of a dozen or more rebellious barons. The people of both your kingdoms are crushed into the earth by tyrannous taxes and levies.\" By the end of the novel, three of the royal conspirators are dead, Thotha-Lanti is now decapitated, and although still alive due to his power and demonic heritage, is facing a mighty rival sorcerer in that state, while the armies of Koth and Ophir are firmly defeated.\n\nThe last story of Howard to feature Conan as a King is \"The Hour of the Dragon\", which shows Conan being deposed in favor of Valerius, a senior living descendant of the old royal family, with Aquilonia falling under the occupation of Nemedia. This is part of a plot by Xaltotun to resurrect the ancient empire of Acheron, which met its demise three thousand years before. Conan is restored to the throne by the end and the Nemedians firmly defeated.\n\nIn \"The Hour of the Dragon\", Conan promises to marry Zenobia of Nemedia, who had saved his life, and make her his queen. His subsequent reign and their marital life were explored in the novels \"The Return of Conan\" (1957) by Björn Nyberg and de Camp, \"Conan the Great\" (1989) by Leonard Carpenter, \"Conan of Aquilonia\" (1977) by de Camp and Carter, and \"Conan of the Isles\" (1968) by de Camp and Carter. By the last novel, Conan completes a reign of more than two decades and abdicates in favor of his son Conan II of Aquilonia, nicknamed Conn. After this is done, Conan the elder heads for one last adventure in the Western Sea.\n\n\"Conan of the Isles\" assumes that Conan was the founder of a new Aquilonian dynasty, with both Cimmerian and Nemedian ancestry. No stories have yet recorded their activities and the length of their presence on the throne. Howard, however, recorded the latter history of Aquilonia in his Hyborian Age essay. According to the essay, the Aquilonian kings eventually manage to create an empire through their wars of expansion. Zingara, Argos, Ophir, and the western city-states of Shem are annexed to the Aquilonian kingdom. Koth, Corinthia, and the eastern city-states of Shem are forced to pay tribute or offer military aid at times of war.\n\nHyberborea then marches against their age-old enemy, using the Border Kingdoms as their battlefield. The Aquilonians are eventually victorious and the remnants of the Hyperborean army are allowed to return to their country, while Hyperborea returns to its isolation. Though Nemedia had resisted Aquilonian expansion for centuries, they are more threatened at this point than ever. The Nemedians form an alliance with Brythunia, Zamora, and secretly with Koth in order to stop the further rise of this new Aquilonian Empire. For some time, Turan recruits new Hyrkanian tribes migrating towards the west. Thus reinforced, the Turanians invaded Zamora, Corinthia, and, at last, Brythunia. The armies of both Aquilonia and Turan face each other on Brythunian land. The Turanians are forced to retreat and Aquilonian forces manage to capture Zamora. By this time, the Aquilonian army is accompanied by significant mercenary forces, notably Zingarans, Picts, and Shemites. After this, Nemedia abandons the plans to directly oppose Aquilonia. The alliances with Brythunia and Koth are retained, while Hyperborea joins this set of allies for the sole purpose of defending their independence from the Aquilonian threat.\n\nRegardless, the flow of Hyrkanian tribes to the armies of Turan continued. Three more Turanian campaigns in Zamora and Shem had to be stopped by the Aquilonians. Meanwhile, the Cimmerians continue facing the Bossonians at the northern borders of Aquilonia, even managing to lead raids to the mainland of Aquilonia in search of loot.\n\nThe Picts were undergoing changes themselves at the time. Their population and military might began increasing. Through contacts with the Hyborians, they finally exit from the stone age and learn some crude metalworking. In particular, they use copper and zinc, though they must either raid Zingara or trade with them to gather the metals. They are no longer living in caves, but abandon them in favor of leather tents and crude huts in Bossonian style. They are still mostly hunters at this time, but practice limited farming when unable to raid their neighbors to get agricultural products. They are finally beginning to make their own crude weapons out of copper and bronze, when two individuals change the course of their history. The first is Arus, an idealistic Nemedian priest determined to civilize the Picts and convert them to the worship of Mitra. The second is Gorm, a young Pictish chieftain who takes the opportunity to get instructions in civilization for his own purposes.\n\nArus recognizes areas rich in metals and Gorm leads his tribe in building the first Pictish mines. Gorm visits Aquilonia to further his knowledge of Hyborian culture, while the forges of his tribe build increasingly advanced metal weapons. Gorm uses his new weaponry to expand his influence over ever increasing parts of the Pictish Wilderness either by war or by diplomacy, struggling to unite the Picts under his rule.\n\nThe Picts now travel freely across the Aquilonian Empire, and start joining the Aquilonian army as mercenaries in ever increasing numbers. The kings of Aquilonia seek good relations with Gorm and his Picts, partly to keep the flow of mercenaries steady and partly to be able to turn their new \"allies\" against the Cimmerians. Their true goal is the mutual annihilation of the two neighboring barbarian peoples. However, continued hostilities at their eastern and southern borders keep them preoccupied and this plan was never brought into fruition.\n\nThe Aquilonians didn't care of the eventual fates of their Pictish mercenaries following their service, but the veterans returned to their people with new ideas on the advanced art of war. Their familiarity with civilization only increased their contempt for it. Their forges were building steel weapons and preparing for eventual conflict with their former masters.\n\nAt last, Gorm managed to unite all Picts under his rule. Howard compares him to Attila the Hun, Genghis Khan, and Osman I, a barbarian with all the instincts of an empire builder. He was middle-aged, but his war against Aquilonia was about to begin.\n\nWhile Gorm united the Picts, the Aquilonians undergo changes of their own. Aquilonia was always a prosperous kingdom, but the new conquests bring it fabulous wealth. Luxury takes the place of simplicity in every aspect of their lives. The Aquilonians dress themselves in silks, but do not allow themselves to become soft. According to Howard, the Aquilonians remain a lively and virile nation. But they become exceedingly arrogant and convinced of their own superiority. They treat the other people of their empire and their vassal states with increasing contempt, while harsher taxation awaits the conquered nations.\n\nArgos, Zingara, Ophir, Zamora, and provinces of Shem are temporarily officially annexed into Aquilonia for some time, but not fully incorporated into the Aquilonian identity. The provinces are run as occupied territories and their people are treated as if enslaved. The proud Zingarans continue to rise with revolt, even in the face of violent retaliation. Koth was officially under the \"protection\" of Aquilonia against the Hyrkanian threat from the east, but is actually a vassal state continuing to pay tribute.\n\nDespite these things, the empire of Aquilonia is not invincible. Nemedia resists all attempts at annexation and Hyperborea offers military help in defense of its main ally. An entire Aquilonian army was decimated in a new attempt at invading Cimmeria and another army was annihilated in an attempt to invade Asgard. While attempts to expand towards the north seem futile, the southern border with Stygia offer new prospects. An Aquilonian army does manage to decimate its Stygian opponents in battle by the river Styx. As a result, Stygia offers to pay tribute to the rising Empire in exchange for calling off a full-scale invasion.\n\nA series of lightning campaigns then exhaust Brythunia and the Aquilonians prepare for what they intend to be their final campaign against Nemedia.\n\nThe campaign against Nemedia would prove to be the beginning of the end for the Aquilonian Empire. An extensive Aquilonian force, with the addition of mercenaries, marches towards Nemedia, but the strife between forces from the mainland of Aquilonia and those from the Bossonian Marches plague this campaign.\n\nThe Bossonians are harsh and less civilized than proper Aquilonians. The increasingly arrogant Aquilonians had also extended their contempt for subject people to the Bossonians. After centuries of defending the empire, they were still treated as inferiors. They now face harsh taxation and are recruited to fight in battlefields far removed from their homeland. The expansion wars had brought little benefit to the Bossonian territories. These Bossonians hate their new treatment and are unsurprisingly less than enthusiastic in following the new campaign.\n\nAt this point, the Picts of Gorm invade Bossonia, which is guarded by few remaining forces. As soon as the news reaches the Nemedian front, the Bossonian military forces abandons the campaign. They headed back towards the Marches and this new western war front. Their timely arrival allows them to defeat the Picts in a great battle. The Aquilonian campaign is weakened by this massive desertion and the desperate Nemedian defense forces them to retreat in defeat. The Aquilonian imperialists are enraged and vengeful. Howard points out that imperialists tend to be uncompromising and short-sighted. Aquilonian troops march towards the Marches in secrecy. Shemite mercenaries are assigned to the border and settle among the villagers. Then the Aquilonians announced that a new war against the Picts is to begin. The Bossonian leaders are invited to a war council.\n\nThe leaders arrived at the council without their weapons and are slaughtered. The Shemite mercenaries turn on their hosts and the Aquilonian imperial forces join the battle. The entire territory of the Bossonian Marches is pillaged and left in ruins. Then the victors withdraw back to the mainland of Aquilonia with their loot according to their orders. The Aquilonians themselves had managed what any combination of Picts and Cimmerians had not in the course of centuries: they had wiped out the Bossonians and left the Aquilonian borders defenseless against all attacks.\n\nAt this time, Gorm is now an old man, but his fiery ambition keeps him in action. He takes advantage of the unguarded borders to unleash his greatest campaign. The Aquilonians are used to facing the attack of a single tribe or a small alliance of tribes, but they weren't ready for the organized Pictish army, raised from their new union of all tribes, that marched towards Aquilonia. Gorm himself laid the plans and had the general command the campaign. The other campaign leaders had serviced in the Aquilonian armies and are veterans of several Hyborian Wars. As the army marches on Aquilonia, this experience is put to practice in a way the Aquilonians had not foreseen.\n\nScattered remnants of the Bossonians had escaped annihilation by the Aquilonians only to fall against the Picts. The Picts enter the mainland of Aquilonia, pillaging and burning in every step of their way. The main force of the Aquilonians is still assigned to the Nemedian border and is not quick enough to head west. Meanwhile, Zingara, Corinthia, and Shem find the opportunity to declare independence, reducing the Aquilonian army further. Mercenaries of Pict, Zingaran, Corinthian, and Shemite origin all abandon camp and leave to join their people. Other mercenary and vassal forces follow their example during the initial confusion of the Aquilonians. The defecting troops start pillaging and burning the lands of their former masters.\n\nOne after the other, the Aquilonian units fall to the Picts. The Bossonians had long provided most of the archers to the army and now the Aquilonians are left without archer support and unable to defend from the arrows of their enemies. Both armies call for reinforcements, but the recalled Aquilonian forces assigned to distant borders and had to make way through rebellious provinces, while the Picts were able to join their main force in great numbers and at their leisure. The Cimmerians find the opportunity to also invade amidst this chaotic state of affairs. They pillage cities and countryside alike before bringing their loot back to Cimmeria. The Picts end up settling in the areas of their conquest. The Aquilonian Empire collapses in blood and fire. Several successor states would rise to take its place, but none under Aquilonian control.\n\nThe primary successor of Aquilonia is the Pictish Empire, which comes to include the former Pictish Wilderness, Zingara, Aquilonia, Argos, Ophir, western Koth, and western Shem. This empire remains harsh and barbaric. The former Aquilonian province of Gunderland becomes an independent kingdom with Hyborian population. The Picts inherit the traditional Aquilonian enmity with the Hyrkanians. The latter are building their own new empire which included Zamora, Brythunia, the Border Kingdom, Corinthia, eastern Koth, and eastern Shem. Cimmeria is locked between the two rival empires, but retains independence through defensive wars. A weakened Nemedia is now controlled by a tribe of mercenaries from Asgard who assume the name of the Nemedians.\n\nGorm is killed while trying to conquer Nemedia, the dream of his Aquilonian predecessors. He had almost completed a century of life and had changed the world through his ambition. At his old age, the conqueror sits on golden thrones and eats from golden plates, served by naked slave women who had once been daughters to various kings within the old Aquilonian Empire.\n\nAquilonian bloodlines survives among the Picts through their interbreeding with their slaves, much like the late Hyborians themselves are the results of such interbreedings. However, their culture did not survive. The Picts remain barbarians and are only interested in the more practical aspects of civilization, such as warfare. They aren't interested in the art or cultural advancement integration with the Hyborians could bring.\n\nNot long after, an ice age hits. Vanaheim and Asgard are freezing and the Vanir and Aesir tribes start their migrations to the south. Gunderland falls to marching Aesir on their way to the former lands of Aquilonia. The Picts are slaughtered while wave after wave of the northern invaders march towards the south and into the Pictish Empire. The Hyrkanians didn't fare much better.\n\nWhen the migration waves ceased, the Vanir, Aesir, and the Cimmerians were spread from the former areas of Hyperborea to Stygia and from the Western Sea to the areas of old Turan. The Picts retain remnants of their old Empire, which included Aquilonia, part of Zingara, and most of the western coast of the nameless continent However, Stygia and Shem still contain cities. In all other areas, the cities fail to survive the constant wars and the people had returned to nomadic life.\n\nThe Hyborians no longer survive as a people. They have few descendants among their conquerors, but they became a half-forgotten legend among them.\n\nNew cataclysmic events change the main nameless continent of the Hyborian world to Eurasia and Africa. The Pictish Wilderness and the Bossonian Marches were lost in the waves of the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nThe Picts survive, but the cataclysm brings them back to the Stone Age. They remain virile and started to regain what remain of their lands. By the time the Cimmerians and distant descendants of the Aesir and Vanir head west and scattered them, only vague legends remain of the old Pictish Empire and its predecessors. Their descendants, the Picts, would only enter history again when they encounter the Roman Empire. Howard addresses their further history in his Bran Mak Morn series. No further reference is mentioned to Aquilonians or their possible descendants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2283518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283518", "title": "Moroka Swallows F.C.", "text": "Moroka Swallows F.C.\n\nMoroka Swallows Football Club (often known as simply Swallows or The Birds) is a South African professional football club based in Soweto in the city of Johannesburg in the Gauteng province. They compete in the National First Division and play their home matches at Dobsonville Stadium.\n\nFounded in 1947, Swallows are one of the original two Soweto clubs, together with Orlando Pirates.\n\nUntil relegation in the 2014–15 season, the club had played every season of the Premier Soccer League.\n\nThe club was founded in the 1940s by a trio of soccer lovers, Ishmael Lesolang, Strike Makgatha, and Johnny Kubheka.\n\nThey originally named the side \"Congregated Rovers\" after the firm in which most of the players and officials worked, later changing it to \"Moroka Rovers\".\n\nBut then, on 10 October 1947, the trio decided to change the name again to \"Moroka Swallows\", basing themselves in the township formally known as Masakeng.\n\nThe name has lasted for the best part of 55 years, a period which has seen consistent success both on the field and off it.\n\nThe name 'moroka' means 'rain maker' in Setswana and the township was probably named after Chief Moroka of Barolong boo-Seleka who became the president of the ANC in 1940s. It is hardly surprising therefore that the club was renamed the 'rain bird'.\n\nThe 1950s and 1960s were a successful time for the club, culminating in their greatest ever achievement, winning the South African League title in 1965.\n\nOff the field, the club was becoming a business and in 1971 they became the first ever football team to register as a public company.\n\nThat same year they were also the first to receive an official sponsorship when Teljoy began their association with the club.\n\nThe decade between 1982 and 1992 was a successful one for the team, culminating in four pieces of silverware.\n\nIn 2007 the club celebrated its 60th anniversary. Two years later Swallows won the Nedbank Cup, the club's first piece of silverware for five years.\n\nThe club narrowly avoided relegation in the 2013–14 season, finishing thirteenth. The 2014–15 season saw them relegated for the first time in their history, finishing 15th, and failing to retain their position after being defeated in the promotion-relegation playoffs.\n\nFollowing their first relegation from the top level, the club finished bottom of the log in the National First Division, and were relegated again to the SAFA Second Division.\n\nPrior to the start of the 2018–19 season, Swallows purchased the franchise of National First Division team Maccabi for R8 million, and will compete in the 2019–20 National First Division.\n\n\nSource:\n\n\nSource:\n\n\"As of 12 March 2015.\"\n\nIn the South African PSL, only five non-South African nationals can be registered. Foreign players who have acquired permanent residency can be registered as locals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2283520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283520", "title": "Ezra Heywood", "text": "Ezra Heywood\n\nEzra Hervey Heywood (; September 29, 1829 – May 22, 1893) was an American individualist anarchist, slavery abolitionist, and advocate of equal rights for women.\n\nHeywood saw what he believed to be a disproportionate concentration of capital in the hands of a few as the result of a selective extension of government-backed privileges to certain individuals and organizations.\n\nHe believed that there should be no profit in rent of buildings. He did not oppose rent, but believed that if the building was fully paid for that it was improper to charge more than what is necessary for transfer costs, insurance, and repair of deterioration that occurs during the occupation by the tenant. He even asserted that it may be incumbent on the owner of the building to pay rent to the tenant if the tenant keeps his residency in such a condition that saved it from deterioration if it were otherwise unoccupied. Heywood believed that title to unused land was a great evil.\n\nHeywood's philosophy was instrumental in furthering individualist anarchist ideas through his extensive pamphleteering and reprinting of works of Josiah Warren, author of \"True Civilization\" (1869), and William B. Greene. In 1872, at a convention of the New England Labor Reform League in Boston, Heywood introduced Greene and Warren to eventual \"Liberty\" publisher Benjamin Tucker.\n\nIn May, 1872 Heywood, a supporter of women's suffrage and free love activist Victoria Woodhull's free speech rights, began editing individualist anarchist magazine \"The Word\" from his home in Princeton, Massachusetts. He was tried in 1878 for mailing \"obscene material\", \nhis pamphlet \"Cupid's Yokes: or, The Binding Forces of Conjugal Life: An Essay to Consider Some Moral and Physiological Phases of Love and Marriage, Wherein is Asserted the Natural Right and Necessity of Sexual Self-Government\", which attacked traditional notions of marriageat the instigation of postal inspector Anthony Comstock, who also had \"Truth Seeker\" editor D. M. Bennett arrested. Convicted of violating the 1873 Comstock Act, he was sentenced to two years' hard labor.\n\nUnlike Bennett, Heywood was pardoned after six months by President Hayes in response to massive protests by sympathizers and free speech advocates. Arrested four more times following his release, Heywood died of tuberculosis within a year of his final release from prison.\n\nHeywood developed his own notation for years to be used in place of B. C. and A. D., namely B. L. and Y. L. respectively.  He developed this notation on 2 July 1878 (Y. L. 6) because the A. D. notation \"recognizes a mythical God in the , puts Christian collars marked 'J. C.' on naturally free necks, and registers us subjects of the lascivio-religious despotism which the male-sexual origin and history of the cross impose\".  He assigned 1873 'Y. L. 1' as that was the year of \"the formation of the New England Free Love League in Boston\".  Y. L. is notation for 'Year of Love'.  Thereafter, Heywood dated all of his correspondence and all issues of \"The Word\" with his new notation.\n\nHeywood met his wife, Angela Heywood, through her work in the abolitionist movement. They had four children together named Psyche, Angelo, Vesta, and Hermes.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2283532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283532", "title": "Basket Case (film)", "text": "Basket Case (film)\n\nBasket Case is a 1982 American horror film written and directed by Frank Henenlotter, and produced by Edgar Ievins. Kevin Van Hentenryck stars as a normal-looking person who seeks vengeance for the unwanted surgery that separated him from his deformed conjoined twin brother.\n\nThe film gained an audience in the 1980s due to the advent of home video and has been considered a cult film. The film spawned two sequels, \"Basket Case 2\" (1990) and \"\" (1991), which were also directed by Henenlotter.\n\nDuane Bradley arrives in New York City with a locked wicker basket. After he gets a room at a cheap hotel, the contents of the basket are finally revealed: in it lives his deformed conjoined twin brother, Belial. Although conjoined at birth, the twins were surgically separated at an early age against their will, and Belial deeply resents being cut off from his normal-looking brother.\n\nAs the twins seek revenge against the doctors responsible for their separation, Duane befriends a nurse, Sharon. Jealous, Belial attacks and kills her when he becomes frustrated with his inability to rape her. Enraged at his brother for his actions, Duane attempts to kill Belial, which results in the two brothers falling from a hotel window.\n\n\nThe movie was shot on 16 mm film. Director Henenlotter did not have control over the post-production, and the result was dark, murky, and converted to a different aspect ratio. The film was shot in part on Manhattan's 42nd Street. Henenlotter wrote the film as he walked around Times Square, which he called a \"seedy, wonderful atmosphere.\"\n\nThe special effects for Belial consist largely of a puppet in some scenes and stop motion in others. When Belial's hand is seen attacking his victims, it is really a glove worn by Henenlotter. The puppet is used in scenes with an actor and where the eyes glow red. The sequence for Belial's rampage used stop motion animation.\n\nThe film was released theatrically in the United States by Analysis Film Releasing Corporation beginning in April 1982. It played as a midnight movie for several years after this.\n\nOn the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, \"Basket Case\" holds a 76% approval rating based on 25 critic reviews, with an average rating of 6.51/10. The consensus reads: \"While \"Basket Case\" definitely delivers all the gonzo gore promised by its cracked premise, it's really set apart by its rich vein of genuine pathos.”\n\n\"Variety\" called it \"an ultra-cheap monster film\" with fine acting but criticized the blowup from 16 mm. David Harley of Bloody Disgusting wrote that \"it's exactly the kind of movie it sets out to be.\" Heather Wixson of Dread Central rated it 3.5/5 stars and called it an \"insane masterpiece that lovingly celebrates the sometimes schlocky and sleazy side of cinema\". G. Noel Gross of DVD Talk rated it 5/5 stars and called it \"an undeniable, unavoidable and unforgettable clasSICK\". Patrick Naugle of DVD Verdict wrote, \"The movie is just pure shock value\" but \"a heck of a lot of fun.\" John Kenneth Muir wrote that it is \"a fine, competent low-budget effort that generates thrills and discomfort not only from its tale of symbiotic (and separated) Siamese twins, but from its authentic sense of place. New York City has never felt more delightfully and dangerously squalid.\" Muir goes on to call it \"oddly compelling, deeply disturbing and inexplicably touching\".\n\nRex Reed's quotation (\"This is the sickest movie ever made!\") used in promotion was not from any printed review. Reed had sought out the film after hearing negative reviews and was asked his opinion after emerging from the cinema. Unknown to Reed, the person who asked him was director Frank Henenlotter. Initially furious that his comment was used to promote the film, Reed eventually relented and granted permission.\n\nThe film was first released on DVD in the United States by Image Entertainment in 1998. This version is currently out of print. The film was re-released on special edition DVD by Something Weird Video in 2001. It was released on Blu-ray September 27, 2011. Henenlotter supervised the Blu-ray release himself and fixed many of the issues he had with previous releases. This restoration was taken from a 35mm interpositive, with the original 16mm negative, which had initially been thought lost, used as a reference.\n\n Several scenes of Belial attacking people were featured in the \"Whose Line Is It Anyway?\" episode \"Willie Robertson\" during a segment called \"Newsflash\" where one of the comedians stands in front of a green screen and pretends to be a breaking news reporter reporting live. Everyone else can see what's happening behind him/her and the comedian has to guess what's happening based on clues from the other comedians who portray News Anchors.\n\n"}
{"id": "2283538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283538", "title": "Silicone grease", "text": "Silicone grease\n\nSilicone grease, sometimes called dielectric grease, is a waterproof grease made by combining a silicone oil with a thickener. Most commonly, the silicone oil is polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) and the thickener is amorphous fumed silica. Using this formulation, silicone grease is a translucent white viscous paste, with exact properties dependent on the type and proportion of the components. More specialized silicone greases are made from fluorinated silicones or, for low-temperature applications, PDMS containing some phenyl substituents in place of methyl groups. Other thickeners may be used, including stearates and powdered polytetrafluorethylene (PTFE).\n\nSilicone grease is commonly used for lubricating and preserving rubber parts, such as O-rings. Additionally, silicone grease does not swell or soften the rubber, which can be a problem with hydrocarbon-based greases. It functions well as a corrosion inhibitor and lubricant for purposes that require a thicker lubricant.\n\nSilicone grease is soluble in organic solvents such as toluene, xylene, mineral spirits, and chlorinated hydrocarbons. It is insoluble in methanol, ethanol, and water. \n\nThermal grease often consists of a silicone-grease base, along with added thermally conductive fillers. It is used for heat-transfer abilities, rather than friction reduction.\n\nSpecial versions of silicone grease are also used widely by the plumbing industry in faucets and seals, as well as in dental equipment. These special versions are formulated using components not known to be an ingestion hazard. Electrical utilities use silicone grease to lubricate separable elbows on lines that must endure high temperatures. Silicone greases generally have an operating temperature range of approximately with some high-temperature versions extending this range slightly.\n\nSilicone grease is widely used as a temporary sealant and a lubricant for interconnecting ground glass joints, as is typically used in laboratory glassware. Although silicones are normally assumed to be chemically inert, several historically significant compounds have resulted from unintended reactions with silicones. \nThe first salts of crown ethers (OSi(CH)) were produced by reactions of organolithium and organopotassium compounds with silicone greases or the serendipitous reaction of stannanetriol with silicone grease to afford a cage-like compound having three Sn−O−Si−O−Sn linkages in the molecule.\n\nLubrication of an apparatus with silicone grease may result in the reaction mixture being contaminated with the grease. The impurity may be carried through purification by chromatography in undesirable amounts. In NMR spectroscopy, the methyl groups in polydimethylsiloxane display H and C chemical shifts similar to trimethylsilane (TMS), the reference compound for those forms of NMR spectroscopy. As with TMS, the signal is a singlet. In H NMR, silicone grease appears at a singlet at δ = 0.07 ppm in CDCl, 0.09 in CDCN, 0.29 in CD, and −0.06 ppm in (CD)SO. In C NMR, it appears at δ = 1.19 ppm in CDCl and 1.38 ppm in CD. Tables of impurities commonly found in NMR spectroscopy have been prepared, and such tables include silicone grease.\n\nSilicone-based lubricants are often used by consumers in applications where other common consumer lubricants, such as petroleum jelly, would damage certain products, such as latex rubber and gaskets on dry-suits. It can be used to lubricate fountain pen filling mechanisms and threads. It is used to seal and preserve O-rings in flashlights, plumbing, waterproof watches, and air rifles. Silicone grease is widely used to lubricate threads of water-submersible flashlights used for diving and spearfishing. This grease improves water resistance of the flashlights and protects threads from wearing out. Silicone grease is used with waterproof devices, as it has a very thick body and doesn't dissolve in water as most spirits and other liquids would.\n\nVarious household uses include lubricating door hinges, shower heads, threads on bolts, garden-hose threads or any thread or mechanism that can be lubricated.\n\nSilicone greases are electrically insulating and are often applied to electrical connectors, particularly those containing rubber gaskets, as a means of sealing and protecting the connector. In this context they are often referred to as dielectric grease.\n\nA common use of this type is in the high-voltage connection associated with gasoline-engine spark plugs, where grease is applied to the rubber boot of the plug wire to help it slide onto the ceramic insulator of the plug, to seal the rubber boot, and to prevent the rubber's adhesion to the ceramic. Such greases are formulated to withstand the high temperature generally associated with the areas in which spark plugs are located, and can be applied to contacts as well (because the contact pressure is sufficient to penetrate the grease film). Doing so on such high-pressure contact surfaces between different metals has the further advantage of sealing the contact area against electrolytes that might cause rapid deterioration of the metals by galvanic corrosion.\n\nSilicone grease can decompose to form an insulating layer at or next to switch contacts that experience arcing, and contamination can cause the contacts to prematurely fail.\n"}
{"id": "2283545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283545", "title": "Kazarki", "text": "Kazarki\n\nKazarki was a Khazar settlement. It was located west of the Volga River and north of Sarkel (probably in the present-day Penza Oblast), from roughly the 7th through the 10th centuries CE. The area around it was known in early Russian sources as \"Volost' Kazarskaya\", or \"Khazar region.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2283551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283551", "title": "Guthrie Govan", "text": "Guthrie Govan\n\nGuthrie Govan (; born 27 December 1971) is an English virtuoso guitarist and guitar teacher, known for his work with the bands The Aristocrats, Asia, GPS, The Young Punx and The Fellowship, as well as his solo project Erotic Cakes. More recently, he has collaborated with Steven Wilson and Hans Zimmer. He is a noted guitar teacher, working with the UK magazine \"Guitar Techniques\", Guildford's Academy of Contemporary Music, Lick Library, and formerly the Brighton Institute of Modern Music. Govan was named \"Guitarist of the Year\" by \"Guitarist\" magazine in 1993.\n\nGovan began playing guitar aged three, encouraged by his father, but initially learning mainly by ear. His father taught him three chords first, and introduced him to his record collection. Govan began listening to 1950s rock 'n' roll artists such as Elvis Presley, Jerry Lee Lewis and Little Richard; he then moved on to later eras, listening to such bands as The Beatles, Cream and Jimi Hendrix, Frank Zappa, and AC/DC, among others. He worked out chords and solos from listening to the records. Half-Scottish, Govan was also heavily influenced by Zal Cleminson, a Scottish guitarist best known for his work with the Alex Harvey Band. At the age of nine, Govan and his brother Seth played guitar on a Thames Television programme called Ace Reports. At secondary school he was exposed, via older classmates, to \"shred\" guitarists of the time. His first electric guitar was a Gibson SG, which he keeps at home.\n\nAfter leaving school, Govan studied English at St Catherine's College at Oxford University. He dropped out after a year to pursue a career in music. Govan states that he was torn between continuing his studies or focusing on becoming a musician; he ultimately decided to concentrate on the latter. Around this time, (by Govan's own estimation, 1991) he sent demos of his work to Mike Varney of Shrapnel Records. Varney was impressed and offered him a record deal. Govan declined, despite initiating contact in the first place. He explained that: \"it was as though all I really wanted to know was that I was good enough […] I found I was getting a bit weary of the shred movement.\"\n\nIn 1993, he won \"Guitarist\" magazine's \"Guitarist of the Year\" competition with his instrumental piece Wonderful Slippery Thing. A version of this song was included on his debut solo album. The demo of the track earned him a place amongst several other entrants in the live final, which he then won. In the meantime, Govan hit upon the idea of transcribing music from records professionally, and submitted the most technically difficult piece he could think of (a Shawn Lane transcription) to \"Guitar Techniques\" magazine. This earned him a job as a contributor to the magazine, ending a spell working in fast food.\n\nGovan has since worked with \"Guitar Techniques\", providing transcriptions of songs, including his own track Wonderful Slippery Thing. Since the late 1990s, Govan has taught at the Guitar Institute in Acton, Thames Valley University, and the Academy of Contemporary Music. He formerly taught at Brighton Institute of Modern Music, and is invited to teach in seminars, masterclasses and clinics all around the world. In this context, he is known for his ability to teach a wide range of styles. Govan has published two books on guitar playing: \"Creative Guitar Volume 1: Cutting Edge Techniques\" and \"Creative Guitar Volume 2: Advanced Techniques.\"\n\nGovan began his involvement with Asia playing on the album \"Aura,\" after the band was unable to secure the services of their first two choices for guest guitarists: Brian May or Steve Lukather. Govan explained that he was then chosen as an \"affordable\" option for the band, which had not experienced recent chart success. With his work on the album complete, Govan was added to the Asia line-up for the tour to support the new album. He wrote an instrumental song, Bad Asteroid, which itself was based on material from Govan's early 1990s demo. He went on to play on the band's 2004 album \"Silent Nation\".\n\nIn 2006, Asia keyboardist Geoff Downes decided to reform the band with its original 3 members. Govan and two other band members, bassist/singer John Payne and Jay Schellen, along with keyboardist Erik Norlander continued under the name Asia featuring John Payne. Govan left in mid-2009. He was replaced by virtuoso guitarist Mitch Perry, known for his work with Cher, RATT, Lita Ford, and the Michael Schenker Group. Since Govan's departure from Asia featuring John Payne, they have gone on to considerable international success.\n\nPayne, Govan and Schellen also formed GPS (named after the members' initials), and after the addition of Ryo Okumoto on keyboards the band released the album \"Window to the Soul\" (2006). Most of the material on that album was written for a proposed Asia album, but was scrapped by Geoff Downes when he reunited the original line-up of Asia.\n\nGovan performs on a number of tracks on \"Your Music Is Killing Me\", the debut album of UK electronic dance music act The Young Punx and is part of their live act. He also appears in the music video for their track Rockall.\n\nGovan has played live guitar for Dizzee Rascal, including a performance on Later With Jools Holland.\n\nGovan's debut solo album, \"Erotic Cakes\", was released through Cornford Records in August 2006. In the album's sleeve notes, Govan states the album is a Simpsons reference (From the Episode \"Treehouse of Horror VI\"); he also explains that when playing live, the band is billed as Erotic Cakes rather than simply Guthrie Govan. In addition to bass by Govan's brother Seth and drumming by Pete Riley, the album features guitar solos by Richie Kotzen (whose Los Angeles studio was used to record the guitar tracks on the album) on Ner Ner and Bumblefoot on Rhode Island Shred respectively. Seth Govan and Pete Riley also complete the Erotic Cakes live band. Previous versions of Waves and Rhode Island Shred appeared on the compilation \"Guitar on the Edge, Vol 1. no.4\" (Legato Records, 1993). A version of his Guitarist of the Year winning piece, Wonderful Slippery Thing appears on the album. While this is his first album, Govan had been collaborating with drummer Pete Riley on the music since the mid-1990s. Govan faced a set back after the albums were produced when several thousand copies of \"Erotic Cakes\" were stolen during a warehouse robbery and were never recovered, but the record company said that \"if the thieves can sell all of the records they have a job here with us\".\n\nThe Erotic Cakes band line up, with the addition of saxophonist Zak Barrett, also forms jazz-fusion band The Fellowship. The band used to play at the Bassment club in Chelmsford, Essex, every Thursday night and did so for several years. They continue to play at the Bassment club to this day, normally just two or three times a year.\n\nIn late 2011, Govan announced a new tour with a new band The Aristocrats, featuring Bryan Beller on bass and Marco Minnemann on drums. Their self-titled debut album was released worldwide in September 2011, followed by Culture Clash in 2013.\nIn January 2015 The Aristocrats released their second live CD/DVD Culture Clash Live! through all official channels and a very special so-called official self-released bootleg double CD Secret Show - Live In Osaka which was only available in their own webstore and during the live concerts at the merchandise table. (no longer available)\nThe band's 3rd official studio album was released on 23 June 2015, and its title is Tres Caballeros.\nIn March 2019 The Aristocrats recorded their 4th studio album (You Know What...?) in the Brotheryn Studios (Ojai, CA), which was released June 28, 2019.\n\nGovan was the lead guitarist in Steven Wilson's band, performing on the critically acclaimed The Raven That Refused to Sing, Hand. Cannot. Erase., and 4½ albums, and was a full-time touring member of Wilson's band until April 2015. These recordings captured what many agree to be some of the finest guitar playing in the history of the progressive rock genre, and introduced Govan to a broader global audience. Guthrie left Steven Wilson's band because of touring priorities with The Aristocrats whose touring schedule was clashing with Wilson's. Guthrie recommended Dave Kilminster as his replacement.\n\nSince 2016 Guthrie Govan is also the lead guitarist in Hans Zimmer Live live band and has toured the world with this ensemble. Hans found Guthrie on YouTube where he saw Guthrie play a fretless guitar. After some messages were exchanged on Guthrie's official Facebook page (Guthrie thought he was dealing with an imposter first, until Hans sent him his private phone number and asked Guthrie to call him), he has been part of the live band but also has been contributing already to a few Hans Zimmer soundtracks like \"The Boss Baby\" (2017), \"X-Men: Dark Phoenix\" (2019) and \"The Lion King\" (2019).\n\nIn 2013, Govan held a guitar workshop with Paul Gilbert. He is also one of the guest stars on Michael Angelo Batio's album \"Intermezzo\", released in November 2013. Guthrie was also a guest guitarist on one song, \" Electric in My Veins\", in Nick Johnston's solo album, \"In a Locked Room on the Moon\".\n\nIn 2016, Govan played alongside Joe Satriani and Steve Vai in G3 2016 touring across Europe.\nThe trek made its way through Italy and Germany and featured support from Mike Keneally on guitar, keyboards and vocals as well as Govan’s band, the Aristocrats: bassist Bryan Beller and drummer Marco Minnemann.\n\nIn 2019, Govan organized the Tony Mills Festival to honor his ailing collaborator Tony Mills. Govan played a set of all Mills' originals at the festival.\nSince 2015 Guthrie Govan has been undertaking more frequently solo tours, mostly in Asia where he has a lot of fans requesting him to perform live. He has toured extensively since then (when there were no tours scheduled with The Aristocrats or Hans Zimmer) across India, Bangladesh, Malaysia, Singapore, Hong Kong, China, Philippines, South Korea & Japan. In India he has been using in his band drummer Gino Banks and protege bass player Mohini Dey, both high profiled players in India. For concerts in Japan he relies on protege drummer Senri Kawaguchi, keyboard player Akira Ishiguro and bassist Mohini Dey. During tours in Russia he teamed up with bassist Anton Davidyants and Hungarian drummer Gergo Borlai\n\nGuthrie is also a very in demand clinician often undertaking specialised guitar masterclasses around the globe. He has been teaching in every continent.\n\nGovan is known for his virtuoso command of the guitar, due to both his technical ability and proficiency in various styles. A 2006 interview hailed him as the \"virtuoso's virtuoso\" and said of him, \"Guthrie Govan is recognised by his peers as possibly the scariest guitarist alive. Combining an unparalleled technical ability with a mastery of almost all styles, Guthrie is comfortable comping in a traditional jazz combo as he is performing death-defying 'shred' guitar. Coupled with some seriously funky grooves and an encyclopaedic knowledge of popular music styles, a wonderfully developed slide style and improvisational abilities to match anyone, he may just be the most complete guitarist out there\".\n\nGovan's earliest influences were Jimi Hendrix and Cream-era Eric Clapton; as such he describes himself as coming from a \"blues rock background\". While he is \"wary\" of 1980s technique driven guitar music (\"shred\") he cites the imagination of Steve Vai (as well as Frank Zappa, with whom Vai played) and the passion of Yngwie Malmsteen. Jazz and fusion elements are an important part of his style: he cites Joe Pass, Jeff Beck and John Scofield as pivotal influences in this respect. He also admires a lot of modern guitar players with different styles such as Derek Trucks and Alex Machacek. Although a very able player in a diversity of styles, Govan has a distinct playing style typically characterised by long, smooth runs often using chromatic notes to \"fill in gaps\", his fast and fluid tapping up and down the neck, funky slapping, and occasional use of extreme effects. Govan has said that the guitar is simply a \"typewriter\" for getting a musical message across. Due to his experience in listening to music and working out riffs, Govan states that he is often able to visualise playing in his head without even playing and said that he pretty much has all of the notes in his head before writing something or learning to play something to produce the sounds that he wants.\n\nAn overview of all past and current gear Guthrie Govan uses.\n\nIn October 2012, Govan was seen using a Charvel guitar on tour, it was later confirmed to be a (koa) prototype. Govan stated in January 2013 that he and Suhr parted ways officially.\n\nIn July 2013, Charvel made it official that they had joined forces with Govan, who had been using their guitars for a few months. \n\nGovan's model sported a caramelised basswood body, birdseye maple top, a caramelised maple neck, Sperzel locking tuners, custom pick-ups by Michael Frank-Braun and a custom in-house developed (floating) tremolo bridge similar in design to a Floyd Rose, but without fine-tuners. \n\nIn January 2014 at the NAMM Show, Charvel officially introduced the Charvel USA Guthrie Govan Signature Model in two versions: one with a Birdseye Maple top and the other with a Flame Maple top, both equipped with custom pickups. In 2017 Charvel added a newer lighter baked Ash body signature model to the GG-signature models and upgraded the former models with a single coil-humbucker switch.\n\nIn the past he has used Suhr Guitars: three different Guthrie Govan Signature Model guitars, three custom Standards, a Modern 24-fret model, a Classic and Classic T. He also plays Vigier fretless guitar (not endorsed).\n\nSince 2013, Govan has started using amplifiers designed and produced by Victory Amplification for both Steven Wilson and the Aristocrats tours. He has been working closely with designer Martin Kidd (who was originally the brain behind the Cornford amps) getting the V30 and V30 Mk II made the way he likes a tube amp to sound like. Ever since 2013 Guthrie has been taking his carry-on V30 across the globe.\nFor the Hans Zimmer tours Govan uses a Kemper profiler, because with an orchestra on stage and using in-ears it is not advised to blast some loud noises through a cabinet.\n\nIn the past Govan also has used Cornford amps: the sleeve notes of \"Erotic Cakes\" state he has used an RK100, MK50 and Hellcat. In the European tour of 2010 and 2011 he played Brunetti amplifiers (CustomWork Mercury 50) like his friend Dave Kilminster. \nWith \"The Aristocrats\" he was using Suhr Badger 30 amps live as well as a CAA PT-100 and the Badger 30 on the debut album.\n\nGuthrie Govan, as stated before, uses his beloved Victory V30 MkII amplifier but to get the desired tone he prefers to use 4 x 12 cabinets with Celestion V30 Vintage speakers inside, slightly having a preference for cabinets made by Mesa (for the thick wood), Orange, Bogner.\n\nGovan has been an analog fan concerning pedals, but since a few years (since 2016) he has been moving towards using a Fractal FX-8 live on tours. The small footprint makes it easier traveling for a musician and the current digital solution comes extremely close to the former analog experiences.\n\nGuthrie uses D'Addario guitar strings (NYXL 10-46) since October 2018. Before he was a Rotosound endorsed artist. \"NYXL's last longer, are brighter and last for 4 shows\" , Guthrie said.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2283558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283558", "title": "Crans-Montana", "text": "Crans-Montana\n\nCrans-Montana is a municipality in the district of Sierre in the canton of Valais, Switzerland. On 1 January 2017 the former municipalities of Chermignon, Mollens, Montana and Randogne merged to form the new municipality of Crans-Montana. Crans-Montana is also a ski resort that was created through the fusion of the two centers of Crans and Montana and belonged to six municipalities (Chermignon, Icogne, Lens, Mollens, Montana and Randogne), four of which merged to form the municipality of Crans-Montana.\n\nChermignon is first mentioned in 1228 as \"Chermenon\" and \"Chirminon\". It became an independent municipality in 1905 when it separated from Lens.\n\nMollens is first mentioned about 1250 as \"Molaen\". In 1286 it was mentioned as \"Moleing\". The municipality was formerly known by its German name \"Molei\", however, that name is no longer used.\n\nMontana is first mentioned in 1243 as \"Montana\". In 1905 it separated from Lens to form an independent municipality.\n\nRandogne is first mentioned in 1224 as \"Randonni\".\n\nThe resort is located in the heart of the Swiss Alps in the French-speaking part of the canton of Valais. It is located on a plateau above Sierre at an elevation of about above sea level, allowing good view over the Valais Alps and Weisshorn in particular. The resort is a fusion of the two centers of Crans and Montana and belongs to 6 municipalities (Chermignon, Icogne, Lens, Mollens, Montana and Randogne).\n\nThe skiing area of Crans-Montana is composed of of pistes, and includes the Plaine Morte Glacier. It is topped by the Pointe de la Plaine Morte at .\n\nCrans-Montana is famous in alpine ski racing for the 1987 World Championships and is often on the World Cup schedule, usually for women's speed events. It also hosts the only winter mountain pop rock festival, the Caprices Festival, and a professional golf tournament, the European Tour's Omega European Masters, which takes place each September. The resort has also been frequently used for bicycle racing, hosting stage finishes of the Tour de Suisse seven times and of the Tour de Romandie eight times as of 2013. In addition Crans-Montana also hosted the finish of the 20th stage of the 1984 Tour de France, won by Laurent Fignon, who also took the overall race win that year.\n\nCrans-Montana has an area, , of .\n\nThe new municipality has a population () of .\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\nThe Roches des Fées and the Hotel Bella Lui are listed as Swiss heritage site of national significance.\n\nBetween 1961 and 1990 Montana had an average of 110.5 days of rain or snow per year and on average received of precipitation. The wettest month was December during which time Montana received an average of of rain or snow. During this month there was precipitation for an average of 9.9 days. The month with the most days of precipitation was January, with an average of 10.4, but with only of rain or snow. The driest month of the year was September with an average of of precipitation over 6.8 days.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2283564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283564", "title": "Na Nach Nachma Nachman Meuman", "text": "Na Nach Nachma Nachman Meuman\n\nIn 1922, Rabbi Yisroel Ber Odesser, a Breslover Hasid, claimed to have received a (note) addressed to him from Rebbe Nachman, although the latter had died in 1810. The seventh line of this is signed , which became Rabbi Odesser's personal meditation and song. Before he died, he taught this phrase to a group of devotees who formed the movement.\n\nRabbi Moshe Feinstein may have been referring to the in his endorsement of Odesser's book distribution ambition, stating that he saw a \"wondrous secret document which he possesses\".\n\nThe phrase was \"revealed\" and taught by Rabbi Yisroel Ber Odesser, a well known Breslov figure who was born in 1888 in Tiberias. Odesser was among the first Breslover Hasidim in Israel, having learned about the movement from Rabbi Yisroel Halpern when he was a young yeshiva student.\n\nWhen he was 33 years old, Odesser was overcome with weakness and hunger on the Fast of Tammuz. He decided to eat. But immediately after eating, he felt great sorrow at having succumbed to his own physical temptations. After five continuous days of prayer, a powerful thought came to him: \"Go into your room!\" He obeyed the inner voice, went to the bookcase, and randomly opened a book. In the book was a piece of paper that he would later call \"The Letter from Heaven.\" The paper, written in Hebrew, with one line in Yiddish, is translated as follows:\n\nOdesser believed the letter to be a message of consolation, directly from Rebbe Nachman's spirit to himself here on earth. Since his name did not appear in the as the recipient, Odesser said that this was reason for every person to consider the addressed to himself or herself personally. Odesser adopted as his personal meditation and song, and became so totally identified with it that he later said, \"I am !\" (This quote appears on Odesser's tombstone in Jerusalem.)\n\nSome Breslover Hasidim, especially prevalent among followers of competing charismatic leaders, do not use (some groups actually oppose it). Some deny its authenticity. The following are some of the diverse opinions:\n\n\nAlthough is based on the name of Rebbe Nachman, it was unknown in his day. However, he did say that repeating one word over and over was an effective form of meditation (). His own personal phrase was (Master of the Universe) which he pronounced with the Yiddish intonation as: . Many Breslover Hasidim today still prefer this phrase, although it refers to God, not the Zaddik.\n\nIn the early 1980s, Rabbi Odesser met with Rabbi Moshe Feinstein, who had seen the and wished to meet its owner. At the meeting, Rabbi Feinstein asked Rabbi Odesser for a blessing, and Rabbi Feinstein also called in his wife to get a blessing from Rabbi Odesser. Rabbi Feinstein gave Rabbi Odesser the following approbation:\n\nThose who doubt the authenticity of the downplay Rabbi Feinstein's approbation by saying that he was known for his loving kindness and his desire to help people. They say that all Rabbi Feinstein wrote was that the was wondrous, but he didn't verify its authenticity.\n\nDuring his lifetime, Rebbe Nachman spoke of a \"Song of Redemption\" that would be revealed before the coming of the Jewish Messiah. This song would be in a \"single, double, triple, quadruple\" form. (). The phrase has such a structure (keeping in mind that Hebrew often omits the vowels) and is based on the Rebbe's name, \"Nachman\":\n\n\nThe phrase is pronounced with a soft A sound as in \"ah\" and a guttural KH sound as in German \"ach.\" It is usually accented as follows:\n\nSpeakers of Yiddish have also noted that can mean \"now to,\" which would loosely translate the phrase as \"Now to Nachman from Uman,\" that is, traveling to the Rebbe on pilgrimage to his gravesite or in one's heart.\n\nWhatever the origins of this phrase, it is now very popular among a subgroup group of Breslover Hasidim who follow Rabbi Odesser, who are colloquially known as the \"Na Nachs\". The name has been incorporated into both traditional and contemporary Jewish music, appeared on bumper stickers, billboards and public graffiti throughout Israel, and is used on jewellery and amulets.\n\nAmong some groups of Sephardic Jewish youth in Israel, it has become a sort of rallying cry for returning to traditional Judaism, although not necessarily to mainstream Breslov.\nMore recently, some people have begun to wear the words of the phrase crocheted on large, white yarmulkes with a little tassel on top. (These hats are a modification of a traditional white yarmulke that has been worn in Jerusalem for centuries. That style, in turn, apparently evolved from the medieval Jewish hat with the ball on top — hence the tassel.) When Rabbi Odesser was still alive, some of his followers were already wearing large white yarmulkes, but without the phrase on them. Today, the make this crocheted yarmulke part of their uniform attire. yarmulkes in other colors are also appearing on the market and are a popular item for Purim.\n\nThe following books were written on the and the meaning of its words:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2283588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283588", "title": "Frank Ryan (American football)", "text": "Frank Ryan (American football)\n\nFrank Beall Ryan (born July 12, 1936) is a retired American football quarterback in the National Football League who played for the Los Angeles Rams (1958–1961), Cleveland Browns (1962–1968) and Washington Redskins (1969–1970). He led the Browns to their most recent National Football League title in 1964.\n\nRyan played football while attending R. L. Paschal High School in Fort Worth, Texas. He was recruited by college coaches from across the country, including Bear Bryant, and he was admitted to Yale University. Ryan declared a major in physics at Rice University, becoming the first in his family not to go to Yale. He was unable to establish himself during the course of his collegiate career, splitting time behind center with King Hill, who was receiving most of the snaps.\n\nGiven his desire to obtain a Ph.D., Ryan originally decided not to play professional football after the Los Angeles Rams chose him in the fifth round of the 1958 NFL Draft. He changed his mind after he was able to enroll at both UCLA and the University of California, Berkeley in pursuit of an advanced degree. Ryan then transferred back to Rice, where he studied during the off-season.\n\nRyan spent the first four years of his career primarily in a reserve capacity, making $12,000 per year. He did start a handful of games in competition with Billy Wade and Zeke Bratkowski. In 1961, he and future Hall of Famer Ollie Matson connected on a 96-yard touchdown reception, establishing a new team record. However, after sitting on the bench for the last four games of the 1961 season, Ryan stormed into the dressing room and threatened General Manager Elroy Hirsch that he was going to quit football if he were not traded. He became part of a multi-player deal with the Cleveland Browns on July 12, 1962, his 26th birthday, as the arrival of highly touted newcomer Roman Gabriel made Ryan expendable.\n\nAcquired to back up starting quarterback Jim Ninowski, Ryan moved into the starting slot on October 28 when Ninowski broke his collarbone while being tackled by Pittsburgh Steelers' defensive lineman Eugene \"Big Daddy\" Lipscomb. With no other candidates to compete with, Ryan established his leadership and held on to the starting role for much of the next six seasons. In his first full season as a starter, 1963, Ryan threw for 2,026 yards and 25 touchdowns with only 13 interceptions, helping the Browns to a 10–4 record. Thirteen of those touchdowns went to Gary Collins, who tied for the league lead in receiving touchdowns that year.\n\nIn 1964, Ryan established himself as one of the league's best passers. He threw for 2,404 yards and repeated his 1963 performance by completing 25 touchdown passes, which was enough to lead the league. Ryan had excellent company on the Browns offense: fullback Jim Brown; wide receivers Gary Collins and Paul Warfield; and an outstanding offensive line led by future Hall of Famers Lou Groza and Gene Hickerson. But Ryan was also a clutch performer during the Browns’ memorable 10–3–1 season. Needing a win in the December 12 regular season finale against the New York Giants to clinch a berth in the NFL title game, Ryan completed 12 of 13 passes for five touchdowns and ran for a sixth touchdown in the 52–20 win. Two weeks later in the championship game against the Baltimore Colts, Ryan hit Collins for three touchdowns to win the title, 27–0.\n\nRyan was rewarded for his performance with the first of three straight Pro Bowl appearances. Unfortunately, on the first play of the second half, he suffered a severe shoulder injury in the game after the combined 800-pound trio of Packer Willie Davis, Lion Roger Brown and Colt Gino Marchetti converged on the signal caller. Speculation persists to this day that Marchetti went out of his way to injure Ryan due to the perception that the quarterback ran up the score in the championship, with Marchetti's statement that he wanted \"one more shot\" at Ryan also fueling the rumors. However, a study of the film by Cleveland coaches in the weeks after the game exonerated Marchetti.\n\nAfter winning the championship, Art Modell raised his salary $25,000, up from about $18,000 per season.\n\nRyan's numbers dropped in 1965, throwing for only 1,751 yards and 18 touchdowns. While his shoulder had completely healed, a sore elbow in training camp and an injured arch early in the regular season played a role in his completing fewer than half of his passes during the campaign. Those struggles resulted in a continuing cool relationship with Browns' fans, who booed him often during home contests. Part of Ryan's decline can also be traced to the absence of second-year wide receiver Paul Warfield, who missed much of the season after suffering a double fracture of the collarbone in the team's first exhibition game.\n\nIn 1966, he bounced back with a superb season, leading the league with 29 touchdown passes and finishing second with 2,976 yards despite playing with intense pain. Ryan's output helped alleviate the absence of the legendary Jim Brown, who had retired prior to the start of training camp. His 29 touchdown passes in 14 games ranks second in Browns franchise history to Brian Sipe, who got 30 in a 16-game 1980 season.\n\nOn January 25, 1967, Ryan underwent an operation to repair the remaining effects of his injury. The surgery eliminated the pain, but also affected his throwing motion. In the 1967 season opener, Ryan's injury woes continued as he sprained both ankles in a 21–14 loss to the Dallas Cowboys. Battling through that malady, along with shoulder and knee troubles, Ryan led the team to a 9–5 record to reach the playoffs. The season would see Ryan having a concussion from a head-to-head collision with Dick Butkus. He was knocked out in the second-quarter but came back to throw three touchdown passes in the third quarter to will his team to a 24–0 victory. Ryan credits this collision for the cervical disc replacement he underwent after retiring.\n\nRyan's tenure as the Browns' starting quarterback came to an abrupt end following a 1–2 start to the 1968 season. Browns' head coach Blanton Collier replaced Ryan with Bill Nelsen, who went on to lead the team to a division title. The official conclusion of Ryan's time with the Browns came on September 9, 1969, when he was released, but new Redskins' coach Vince Lombardi quickly signed Ryan as a backup.\n\nDespite throwing only one pass during the 1969 season, Ryan returned for the last of his 13 years in the NFL in 1970 before officially announcing his retirement on April 13, 1971. With his accurate throwing arm, his 14.7 yards per completion still ranks as one of the all-time leaders.\n\nRyan attended graduate school during the first part of his playing career, and in 1965, he earned his Ph.D. from Rice. He worked for seven postgraduate years under Dr. G. R. MacLane, one of the best geometric-function theorists, and produced the dissertation \"Characterization of the Set of Asymptotic Values of a Function Holomorphic in the Unit Disc.\" In 1966, Ryan published two fundamental papers on the set of asymptotic values of a function holomorphic in the unit disc in Duke Mathematical Journal.\n\nHe started teaching at Rice during his career and, during his time with the Browns, he became an assistant professor at the Case Institute of Technology in February 1967. Ryan had a full teaching load, which includes undergraduate and graduate courses, and conducting research in complex analysis. While at training camp, Ryan taught math in the morning and went to football practice in the afternoon. Ryan taught his last course at Case Western Reserve in the spring of 1971. He was promoted to associate professor that summer. After taking a leave of absence for the next three years, he resigned his faculty position in 1974.\n\nRyan learned computer programming and software through the Chi Corp., Case Western Reserve's then newly launched private computer company. He compiled advanced statistics to apply what he learned to football. The Browns were shown his results and liked the project but didn't offer the extra cash to move it forward.\n\nRyan's second career was fodder for many jokes by sportswriters. Red Smith wrote that the Browns' offense consisted of a quarterback who understood Einstein's theory of relativity and ten teammates who didn't know there was one. Ryan was somewhat put off by the focus on his academic life, as he considered himself to be a regular football player.\n\nRyan considers Sir Edward Collingwood, an expert in meromorphic function and the theory of cluster sets, and Arthur J. Lohwater, the former editor of \"Mathematical Reviews\", as mentors. Ryan has an Erdős number of 3.\n\nSoon after his retirement from the Redskins, Ryan remained in the nation's capital when he was named director of information services for the U.S. House of Representatives. While there, he helped advance the computer age in politics by playing an integral role in establishing the body's first electronic voting system. This enabled voting procedures that usually ran for 45 minutes to be shortened to around 15 minutes. By the time he left the post, the office had an annual budget of $8 million with a staff of 225.\n\nRyan resigned that post to become athletic director and lecturer in mathematics at Yale University on March 7, 1977. Ryan served in that position for ten years before resigning to become the school's associate vice president for institutional planning.\n\nHe was a member of the Rice board of governors from 1972 to 1976 and was recognized as a distinguished alumnus in 1987. Ryan became vice president for external affairs at Rice in August 1990, increasing annual gifts to the university to a three-year average of $32.8 million for the fiscal years 1992–94 from $21.4 million for the fiscal years 1988–90. In 1995, he resigned his post as vice president for external affairs at Rice, owing to differences with President Malcolm Gillis concerning the future course of external affairs. Ryan ended his institutional career as a professor of mathematics, and professor of computational and applied mathematics at Rice.\n\nRyan was president and chief executive officer of Contex Electronics, which designed and manufactured cable and interconnect products for the computer and communications industries. Ryan also served as director for America West Airlines, Sequoia Voting Systems, and of Danielson Holding Corporation. He was an advisory director of United Medical Care Inc.\n\nNow retired, Ryan lives on 78 acres of heavily forested land in Grafton, Vermont, with his wife, Joan, a retired sportswriter and nationally syndicated columnist for \"The Washington Post\". His wife was one of the first female sportswriters to ever grace a locker room (not to be confused with another sportswriter named Joan Ryan) and also wrote a book on women in sports. The two Texans met in college, fell in love with Vermont while Ryan was on staff at Yale, and have been married since their senior year at Rice. \n\nIn retirement, he now runs a sophisticated self-designed program that helps micro-analyze statistical behavior of the up-and-down pricing movement that underlies the pricing behavior of the futures market. He is also doing work on Oppermann's conjecture about the distribution of prime numbers.\n\nRyan ranks fourth all-time among Browns quarterbacks with 13,499 passing yards and second behind Brian Sipe with 134 touchdowns. His 81.43 passer rating is third-best, behind Milt Plum and Bernie Kosar.\n\nRyan's career numbers (including years with the Rams and Redskins): 1,090 completions in 2,133 attempts for 16,044 yards, 149 touchdowns and 111 interceptions. Ryan also rushed for 1,358 yards and six touchdowns on 310 carries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2283593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283593", "title": "All Together Now", "text": "All Together Now\n\n\"All Together Now\" is a song by the English rock band the Beatles written primarily by Paul McCartney and credited to the Lennon–McCartney partnership. The song was recorded during the band's \"Magical Mystery Tour\" period, but remained unreleased until it was included on the \"Yellow Submarine\" soundtrack. It was released as a single in 1972 in European countries such as France and Germany, backed by \"Hey Bulldog\".\n\nMcCartney described the song as a children's sing-along with the title phrase inspired by the music hall tradition of asking the audience to join in. He also described a \"subcurrent\" in the song, a dual-meaning where \"we are all together now.\" According to music critic Tom Maginnis of AllMusic, McCartney created the song \"to match the same light-hearted spirit\" of \"Yellow Submarine\".\n\n\"All Together Now\" appears in an animated sequence in the film \"Yellow Submarine\", and is also introduced by the Beatles themselves in a final live-action scene of the film. During the latter scene, translations of \"All Together Now\" into various languages appear written on-screen.\n\nThe track was recorded on 12 May 1967 at EMI Studios and mixed the same day, but was not released until 13 January 1969, when it appeared on the soundtrack album. George Martin was absent from this session, leaving recording engineer Geoff Emerick in charge of the control room. The song took less than six hours to record and was recorded in nine takes, the last of which was selected for overdubs.\n\n\nMark Lewisohn reported that the \"party-style\" backing vocals were provided by \"whoever happened to be around\".\n\nPaul McCartney performed the song live for the first time by any Beatle on 4 May 2013 at the Estádio Mineirão, Belo Horizonte, Brazil. He subsequently played it throughout his 2013–15 Out There tour.\n\n\"All Together Now\" has been covered by various artists. Versions intended for children have been released by the Sugarbeats, the Bingo Kids and others.\n\nA German group, Joy Unlimited, did a heavy funk-rock version that music critic Richie Unterberger of AllMusic described as \"an oddball obscure Beatles' cover\".\n\nThe Muppets covered the song as the final track for their 1994 album \"Kermit Unpigged\" with Harry Smith on the tuba.\n\nAndré 3000 of the duo OutKast covered the song for a Nike commercial that ran during the 2010 NBA Finals. The song was released on digital streaming platforms in 2010 via Arista Records, and received a 5,000-copy limited release on 7\" vinyl on April 22, 2017 via Legacy Recordings for Record Store Day.\nKenny Loggins covered it on his 2009 album \"All Join In\".\n\nIn 2011, Sprint began using versions of the song to promote its wireless services in the US. Portuguese mobile phone company Optimus used it the same year as part of a new advertising campaign.\n\nA commercial for America's Test Kitchen on CreateTV used the song by the Beatles.\n\nTally Hall performed a cover of this in conjunction with Casey Shea and Speak as a planned encore at the 7th Street Entry stop on their Good & Evil tour.\n\nGlove & Boots made a video of the song, with the puppet Mario coming up with his own lyrics while Fa-Fa and the rest sing a reasonably faithful version of the song.\n\nKohl's used a version of the song in their Christmas 2015 television commercials.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2283598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283598", "title": "Infrared multiphoton dissociation", "text": "Infrared multiphoton dissociation\n\nInfrared multiple photon dissociation (IRMPD) is a technique used in mass spectrometry to fragment molecules in the gas phase usually for structural analysis of the original (parent) molecule.\n\nAn infrared laser is directed through a window into the vacuum of the mass spectrometer where the ions are. The mechanism of fragmentation involves the absorption by a given ion of multiple infrared photons. The parent ion becomes excited into more energetic vibrational states until a bond(s) is broken resulting in gas phase fragments of the parent ion. In the case of powerful laser pulses, the dissociation proceeds via inner-valence ionization of electrons.\n\nIRMPD is most often used in Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometry.\n\nBy applying intense tunable IR lasers, like IR-OPOs or IR free electron lasers, the wavelength dependence of the IRMPD yield can be studied. This infrared photodissociation spectroscopy allows for the measurement of vibrational spectra of (unstable) species that can only be prepared in the gas phase. Such species include molecular ions but also neutral species like metal clusters that can be gently ionized after interaction with the IR light for their mass spectrometric detection.\n\nDue to the relatively large differences in IR absorption frequencies that are due to different resonance frequencies for molecules containing different isotopes, this technique has been suggested as a way to perform Isotope separation with difficult-to-separate isotopes, in a single pass. For example, molecules of UF containing U-235 might be ionized completely as a result of such a laser resonance, leaving UF containing the heavier U-238 intact.\n\n"}
{"id": "2283602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283602", "title": "Gunne Sax", "text": "Gunne Sax\n\nGunne Sax is a retired clothing label owned by Jessica McClintock, Inc., which specialized in formal and semi-formal wear for young women. Eleanor Bailey and Carol Miller co-founded the label in San Francisco in 1967 , before partnering with McClintock in 1969 for a $5,000 investment.\n\nThe name \"Gunne Sax\" was associated with the label's prairie, Victorian, and Edwardian-styled designs which drew on many elements popular in late-19th and early-20th-century American fashion such as lace, gingham, and calico. The enterprise was named after the \"gunny sack\" or burlap trim used on some of the earlier dresses.\n\nGunne Sax had a children/young girls' line referred to as Jeunes Filles. Gunne Sax also manufactured renaissance- and medieval-inspired designs, with empire waistlines and middle plackets, and used other historical costume elements such as corset-like laced bodices and puffed sleeves that tightened below the elbow, a style popular throughout the 1970s and 1980s known as \"leg o'mutton.\" Collectors consider clothing with the original \"black label,\" used only in 1969, the most valuable. A \"hearts label\" was used for a short time following, until the 1970s and early 1980s larger label with scrollwork was put into use.\n\nFrom the 1980s and beyond, Gunne Sax dresses tended to follow modern prom dress sensibilities, such as tight, strapless bodices and full skirts, favoring fabrics like satin, taffeta, and tulle. In 1999 taffeta was the number one seller paired with matte satin or brocade corsets, with an addition of skirts made in tulle or dotted swiss.\n\n"}
{"id": "2283604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283604", "title": "Ich töte mich...", "text": "Ich töte mich...\n\n\"...Ich töte mich jedesmal aufs Neue, doch ich bin unsterblich, und ich erstehe wieder auf; in einer Vision des Untergangs...\" (German:\"\"...I kill myself every time anew, but I am immortal, and I rise again; in a vision of Doom..\"\"; usually referred to as \"...Ich töte mich...\") is the debut album by darkwave band Sopor Aeternus & the Ensemble of Shadows, and was released in 1994. The original pressing had no title, though the \"...Ich töte mich...\" line was printed in blackletter on the back cover; later editions identified the printed sentence as the official title. Originally released as a limited edition of 1,000, the album has been re-released at least three times.\n\n\"\"...Ich töte mich...\"\" consists of baroque-tinged neo-medieval music and is heavily punctuated by drum machines and pipe organs. Much of the instrumentation is synthesized due to a low budget; the album features guitar performed by Gerrit Fischer on its final tracks. Sopor Aeternus would not return to prominent synthesizer use until 2004's \"\"La Chambre D'Echo\" - Where the dead Birds sing\". \"\"...Ich töte mich...\"\" features several elements of the musical project's traditional musicality, including the use of brass and woodwinds throughout. \"Birth - Fiendish Figuration\" would go on to be re-recorded at least three more times on later albums, while \"Tanz der Grausamkeit\" would be re-recorded as \"Saltatio Crudelitas\" for \"\"Todeswunsch - Sous le soleil de Saturne\"\" and the raucous \"Do you know my Name?\" would receive equal treatment on \"\"Flowers in Formaldehyde\"\".\n\nIn 1999, \"\"...Ich töte mich...\"\" was re-released with slightly different artwork and seven bonus tracks, including a couple of demos; \"Baptisma\", \"Beautiful Thorn\" and the second half of \"The Feast of Blood\" (from \"Es reiten die Toten so schnell...\") were re-issued on this pressing. All of the bonus songs were later re-recorded for the 2003 album \"\".\n\nThe album has since been re-issued twice with different artwork; once in 2004, and again in 2008. The artwork for the 2004 edition stresses that the full recording consists of demos, and the accompanying press release from Apocalyptic Vision suggested to purchase \"\"...Ich töte mich...\"\" after one is already acquainted with Sopor Aeternus' music. This press release was later removed from the website. The subtitles of songs were not printed on re-issues.\n\n"}
{"id": "2283611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283611", "title": "Bad Taste Records", "text": "Bad Taste Records\n\nBad Taste Records is a record label based in Lund, Sweden.\n\nThe record label was one of the first labels to establish in the Swedish punk rock and punk/hardcore scene in the early 1990s, together with Burning Heart Records. The name of the label originated from the movie \"Bad Taste\" by Peter Jackson.\n\nThe first release was put out in 1994, the EP \"Skate to Hell\" by Satanic Surfers. For a couple of years, they worked together with the record shop Love Your Records.\n\nToday, the label has somewhat diversified, drifting from their original exclusive punk/hardcore orientation towards a more rock/emo/rap orientation.\n\nBands and other acts that have released records under the Bad Taste Records label include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2283624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283624", "title": "Jesus Christ Is Risen Today", "text": "Jesus Christ Is Risen Today\n\n\"Jesus Christ Is Risen Today\" is a Christian hymn. It was initially written in the 14th century as a Bohemian Latin hymn titled \"\". It is an Easter hymn referring to the Resurrection of Jesus and based on Matthew 28:6, Acts 2:32, 1 Peter 3:18 and Revelation 1:17-18.\n\n\"Jesus Christ Is Risen Today\" was first written in Latin titled \"\", as a Bohemian hymn in the 14th century by an unknown author on manuscripts written in Munich and Breslau. In Latin, it had eleven verses. It was first translated into English in 1708 by John Baptist Walsh to be included in his (\"Collection of Divine Songs and Hymns\"). The verses of the hymn were revised in 1749 by John Arnold. Initially the hymn only had three verses translated with just the first verse being a direct translation; in 1740 Charles Wesley (one of the founders of Methodism) added a fourth verse to the hymn as an alternative, which was later adopted into the hymn as part of it. The hymn is also noted for having Alleluia as a refrain after every line.\n\nThe hymn is set to a piece of music entitled \"Easter Hymn\" which was composed in the for \"Jesus Christ Is Risen Today\". There was a later version of \"Easter Hymn\" composed by William Henry Monk which is also used for \"Jesus Christ Is Risen Today\". Some denominations of Christianity often just use one while some use both. The hymn is sometimes confused with \"Christ the Lord Is Risen Today\", which was written by Wesley. This is because the wording is similar and \"Christ the Lord Is Risen Today\" is usually likewise sung to \"Easter Hymn\" with \"Llanfair\" generally being the most common alternative .\n\n"}
{"id": "2283640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283640", "title": "Lillooet Cattle Trail", "text": "Lillooet Cattle Trail\n\nThe Lillooet Cattle Trail, also known as the Lillooet-Burrard Cattle Trail and also as the Lillooet Trail, was an unusual and daring public works undertaking by the Province of British Columbia in the 1877, and was the largest 19th Century public works expenditure at $35,000 of the new province since its joining Canada in 1871.\n\nFaced with burgeoning stock populations in the Pemberton-Lillooet and Gang Ranch areas and a lack of easy access to the huge market supplying meat to construction crews of the Canadian Pacific Railway just east, largely because of a lack of bridge crossings of the Fraser River, the ranchers of the Lillooet area lobbied the provincial government, and MLA Humphreys, to finance a trail to the coast via the Pemberton and Squamish areas to the north shore of Burrard Inlet (i.e. what is now Vancouver harbour), at the mouth of the Seymour River. The track was started and followed a gold rush of 1862 route through the Seymour Watershed over to Mamquam and Indian Rivers to Squamish, and to follow a path, taken much later by the PGE, to the Lillooet area. Work crews started hacking and building in 1874 with the trail \"finished' in 1877.\n\nThe trail's route was improbable, to say the least, hugging lakeside cliffs where, in places, trestles and floating platforms had to be built out above or onto the lake and, beyond that, through marshes and heavy forests beset by infamously thick mosquitos and, lastly, a tortuous \"stairway\" section of the trail over the pass between the Squamish area and the head of the Seymour River, where cattle were expected to use steps on a trail that was nowhere more than 6 yards wide.\n\nOnly one formal cattle drive was ever held over the full length of the route and most head were lost; those that finished the trip were put out to pasture to recuperate, being too skinny to be worth butchering. The multi-thousand-dollar loss incurred by trail construction left a bad taste with the provincial government for many years, although the son of its main sponsor, a rancher from Pavilion, later became provincial Minister of Highways and Public Works. Bridges to serve the cattle ranches of the West Fraser, including the suspension-span at Lillooet, were built in several places by the 1910s, although too late to keep the West Fraser Ranches competitive with those in the Thompson and Cariboo regions.\n\nThe trail remained in use in later years for residents of the Pemberton Valley for general travel purposes, and at least two more smaller cattle drives from that region to Squamish were attempted, both financial disasters as was the original one from Lillooet. The roadbed of the trail remained in place for many years, its stretch from Pemberton to Squamish ultimately being subsumed into the grade for the construction of the Pacific Great Eastern Railway through that stretch.\n\nBasically the route started from North Vancouver to Lillooet. The trail went through Britannia, Squamish, Garibaldi to Pemberton. From here it followed the Douglas road, but at this time the water routes were replaced with roads and the trail made it all the way to Lillooet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2283642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283642", "title": "Poling, West Sussex", "text": "Poling, West Sussex\n\nPoling is a village and civil parish in the Arun District of West Sussex, England, southeast of Arundel on a minor road south of the A27. About 25% of the parish is wooded foothill slopes of the South Downs which is the area north of the A27 here.\n\nThe 2001 Census recorded 173 people lived in 75 households, of whom 96 were economically active. At the 2011 Census the population had risen only marginally to 174.\n\nThe small village has two Grade I Listed buildings: the Church of England parish church of Saint Nicholas, (in whose churchyard the cricketer Colin Cowdrey is buried), and some remains of St John's Priory (founded by the Knights Hospitallers) beside the main road. Many of the cottages are Grade II listed.\n\nPoling was an agricultural part of the Rape of Bramber, one of the traditional sub-divisions of Sussex and a former Norman barony.\n\nIn the Anglo-Saxon era Poling, like most coastal villages, had outlying areas of land in the Weald (forest) within Sussex used for summer grazing and timber production. Thus Poling gave its name to Pallingham north of Stopham and Pallinghurst west of Rudgwick. Poling also had land north of Petworth, then known as \"\"Palinga Schittas\"\", mentioned in a charter of AD 953. in connection with the pannage of pigs to feed on acorns.\n\nSt. Nicholas' parish church is on the south-east edge of the village next to Manor Farm and is reached by a footpath from Poling Street, next to the Old Vicarage.\n\nBurials in St. Nicholas' churchyard include the Kent and MCC cricketer and cricket administrator Colin Cowdrey (1932–2000) and the explorer, botanist, artist and colonial administrator Sir Harry Johnston (1858–1927). Johnston is also commemorated by a wall plaque in the nave carved by the Arts and Crafts sculptor and typeface designer Eric Gill, who lived at Ditchling, East Sussex. The main typeface used on the plaque seems to be Gill's Perpetua, which he designed in 1925 but did not release until 1929. The lower-case typeface used for the Latin quote below is not presently recognised.\n"}
{"id": "2283651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283651", "title": "National Center for Public Policy Research", "text": "National Center for Public Policy Research\n\nThe National Center for Public Policy Research, founded in 1982, is a self-described conservative think tank in the United States. Its founding CEO is Amy Ridenour, who serves as chairwoman. David A. Ridenour, her husband, is president, having served as vice president from 1986-2011. Key staff include Jeff Stier, who runs its Risk Analysis Division, Justin Danhof, who runs its Free Enterprise Project, Horace Cooper and Cherylyn Harley LeBon, who run its Project 21, Senior Fellows David Almasi, R.J. Smith, and Bonner Cohen, Distinguished Fellow Deroy Murdock, Media Director Judy Kent and Digital Media Specialist Jennifer Biddison. Bishop Council Nedd II, Joe R. Hicks, Stacy Washington, Demetrius Minor, Emery McClendon, Niger Innis, Dr. Elaina George, Dr. Day Gardner, Nadra Enzi, Dutch Martin, Kevin Martin and Christopher Arps are among those who frequently speak or publish under the Project 21 and/or National Center banner.\n\nNCPPR's work is in the areas of free markets, environmental and regulatory policy, retirement security, constitutional law, the First and Second Amendments, religious liberty, academic freedom, defense and foreign affairs. Particular areas of interest include global warming denial, endangered species, energy policy, environmental justice, job growth and economic prosperity, property rights, legal reform, health care, Medicare reform, Social Security, civil rights, foreign affairs/defense and United Nations reform/withdrawal.\n\nNational Center for Public Policy Research is repeatedly cited as a member of the global warming denial organization Cooler Heads Coalition, which describes its object as \"dispelling the myths of global warming by exposing flawed economic, scientific, and risk analysis\", but reported on its blog in 2013 that it has not been a member for many years.\n\nPublications include National Policy Analysis papers, Talking Points cards, the newsletters \"What Conservatives Think,\" \"Ten Second Response\" and \"In the News\" among other publications, and a \"National Center Blog\". They also have full editorial control over the contents of the wiki-styled web portal \"GroupSnoop\" which hosts conservative analyses of various high-profile left-leaning non-profits. NCPPR also hosts a global warming denial website \"envirotruth.com\", that provides information on environmental issues with emphasis on property rights. The site was launched in May 2002.\n\nAs of October 31, 2013, the organization's web site reported that its funding breakdown was 94% from individuals, 4% from foundations and less than 2% from corporations. The organization reported receiving 350,000 individual contributions a year from over 96,000 recent contributors.\n\nFor the fiscal year ending 12/31/14, the organization's 990 tax return reported revenue of $11,458,636 and expenses of $11,636,451. It reported receiving no government grants.\n\nSince 1992, the group has sponsored Project 21, a \"national leadership network of black conservatives\". Project 21 provides research and commentary on public policy issues from a conservative black perspective to the U.S. news media at large and to African American community newspapers and media outlets. According to the organization, Project 21 members, all of whom are black, were published, quoted or interviewed over 35,000 times on a variety of public policy issues since 1992, including on major cable TV programs such as the Fox News Channel's The O'Reilly Factor, The Kelly File, Fox & Friends and The Sean Hannity Shows, and MSNBC's Hardball with Chris Matthews, as well as major syndicated radio programs including the Michael Savage, Sean Hannity, Mike Siegel and Bill Martinez shows.\n\nEdmund Peterson was the first chairman of Project 21. It was also formerly chaired by Mychal Massie. It is now co-chaired by Horace Cooper and Cherlyn Harley LeBon. Fox News Contributor Deneen Borelli iserved as Project 21's first full-time senior fellow from 2006-2012.\n\nOf Project 21, the liberal magazine \"The Nation\" said in May 2005, \"Project 21 remains a crucial gear in the right’s propaganda factory. Without [Project 21, its] cadres would probably be at home screaming at the TV. But instead, they’re on TV.\"\n\nProject 21's Jimmie Hollis attended the 1963 \"March on Washington\" civil rights rally and heard Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.'s \"I Have a Dream\" speech first-hand. He shared some on his recollections in an audio interview conducted with Project 21 on August 26, 2013.\n\nThe board of directors of the National Center for Public Policy Research includes author Peter Schweizer, management consultant Victor Porlier, health care analyst Edmund F. Haislmaier, legal commentator Horace Cooper, Young America's Foundation CEO Ron Robinson, Amy Ridenour, and David Ridenour.\n\nThe following individuals have affiliations with the National Center for Public Policy Research.\n\n\nIn February 2014, at Apple Inc.'s annual shareholder meeting, a proposal by the NCPPR as a shareholder to force Apple to \"disclose the costs of its sustainability programs\" was rejected by 97% vote. The NCPPR representative argued that Apple's decision to have all of its power come from green sources would lower shareholders' profits. CEO Tim Cook \"categorically rejected the worldview behind the NCPPR's advocacy. He said that there are many things Apple does because they are right and just, and that a return on investment (ROI) was not the primary consideration on such issues...When we work on making our devices accessible by the blind, I don't consider the bloody ROI... If you want me to do things only for ROI reasons, you should get out of this stock.\" Virgin's CEO Richard Branson wrote an article supporting Cook's stance and criticizing the NCPPR stance on climate change. Branson argued that \"If 97% of climate scientists agreeing that climate-warming trends over the past century are due to human activities isn’t compelling data, I don’t know what is.\" An article in the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" in 1998 described the NCPPR's \"legal but controversial\" computer-generated \"fright mail\" campaign which targeted millions of seniors, according to the American Association of Retired Persons spokesman, Greg Marchildon.\n\nDisgraced lobbyist Jack Abramoff was a member of NCPPR's Board of Directors; he resigned in October 2004 after NCPPR's Board of Directors concluded he had violated the organization's conflict of interest policy. In October 2002, Abramoff directed the Mississippi Band of Choctaws to give $1 million to NCPPR, and then told Amy Ridenour to distribute the funds to Capital Athletic Foundation ($450,000), Capitol Campaign Strategies ($500,000) and Nurnberger and Associates ($50,000). In June 2003, Greenberg Traurig, the firm that employed Abramoff, sent $1.5 million to NCPPR, of which Ridenour distributed $250,000 to Capital Athletic Foundation and the remainder to Kay Gold LLC, both controlled by Abramoff. Ridenour said in testimony that she believed Abramoff co-conspirator Michael Scanlon was the owner of Kay Gold (Kaygold).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2283655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283655", "title": "Stay Away (song)", "text": "Stay Away (song)\n\n\"Stay Away\" is the 21st single by Japanese rock band L'Arc-en-Ciel, released on July 19, 2000. On the same day, Japanese rock band Glay's single \"Mermaid\" was also released. Although \"Stay Away\" sold over 504,000 copies in the first week, \"Mermaid\" debuted at number 1 with the sales of over 525,000 copies. The second track \"Get out from the Shell\" is also included in their album \"Real\" as the English-language song \"Get out from the Shell (Asian version)\". \"Stay Away\" was elected as \"the best video of the year\" at the \"Space Shower Music Video Awards 00\".\n"}
{"id": "2283656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283656", "title": "Eduardo Cansino", "text": "Eduardo Cansino\n\nEduardo Cansino Reina (March 2, 1895 – December 24, 1968) was a Spanish-born American dancer and actor, and the father of actress Rita Hayworth.\n\nEduardo Cansino was born on March 2, 1895, in Castilleja de la Cuesta, Andalusia, Spain. His sister, Elisa, was also a dancer. He emigrated to the United States and joined the Ziegfeld Follies. In 1917 he married Volga Hayworth, his partner in the Follies.\n\nThey had three children: Margarita Carmen, Eduardo Jr. (October 13, 1919 – March 11, 1974), and Vernon (May 21, 1922 – March 23, 1974). After she began making films in Hollywood, Margarita Carmen Cansino took her mother's maiden name as her professional surname, becoming Rita Hayworth. During Rita's childhood and adolescence, Eduardo was sexually abusive to her.\n\nEduardo Cansino Sr. died in Pompano Beach, Florida, in 1968, aged 73, and is buried at Forest Lawn Memorial Park (Glendale).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2283662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283662", "title": "Peter Oosterhuis", "text": "Peter Oosterhuis\n\nPeter Arthur Oosterhuis (born 3 May 1948) is an English professional golfer and golf broadcaster. Oosterhuis played on the European circuit from 1969 to 1974, winning 10 tournaments and taking the Harry Vardon Trophy for heading the Order of Merit for four consecutive seasons from 1971 to 1974. From 1975 he played on the PGA Tour, winning the Canadian Open in 1981. He was twice runner-up in the Open Championship, in 1974 and 1982. Later he became a golf analyst on TV, initially in Europe and then in the United States. In 2015, Oosterhuis announced that he had Alzheimer's disease.\n\nOosterhuis was born in London and educated at Dulwich College. He won the 1966 Berkshire Trophy by a stroke from Michael Bonallack, after a final round 67 which included nine 3s in 11 holes, with seven 3s in succession. Later in 1966 he won the British Youths Open Amateur Championship by four strokes. He represented Great Britain in the 1967 Walker Cup. Playing with Ronnie Shade in the foursomes they halved one match and won the other. However, Oosterhuis lost both his singles matches. He also played in the 1968 Eisenhower Trophy where Great Britain and Ireland won the silver medal. Great Britain and Ireland led the United States by 7 strokes after three rounds, but the Americans scored 73, 73 and 75 in the final round to Great Britain and Ireland's 76, 76, and 77 to win by a stroke. Oosterhuis turned professional in November 1968.\n\nOosterhuis played on the European circuit in the early years of his professional career, from 1969 to 1974, winning the Harry Vardon Trophy (the Order of Merit title) four consecutive times from 1971 to 1974.\n\nIn 1969, his rookie season, he started the season by winning the Sunningdale Foursomes, playing with the amateur Peter Benka, and finished runner-up in the Gor-Ray Under-24 Championship. He was awarded the Sir Henry Cotton Rookie of the Year award. In 1970 Oosterhuis won two age-restricted events, Lord Derby’s Under-23 Professional Tournament and the Coca-Cola Young Professionals' Championship. Later in the season he finished tied for sixth in the Open Championship, and third in the Dunlop Masters. Oosterhuis had won the General Motors Open in South Africa in February, an event which served as the South African qualifier for the Alcan Golfer of the Year Championship. He finished tied for third place in that event with Neil Coles and Lee Trevino, winning £2,487.\n\nOosterhuis won his first important British event, the Agfa-Gevaert Tournament, in May 1971 and followed this up by winning the Sunbeam Electric Tournament and the Piccadilly Medal later in the season. These, together a number of other high finishes, including being runner-up in the Carroll's International and the Dunlop Masters, gave Oosterhuis the Order of Merit title with 1292.5 points, beating Neil Coles who finished just 7 points behind. 1972 was the first year of the European tour. Oosterhuis won the Penfold-Bournemouth Tournament and the Coca-Cola Young Professionals' Championship, a non-tour event. He was runner-up in the Dutch Open, the Viyella PGA Championship and the John Player Classic. He won the Order of Merit title with 1751 points, ahead of Guy Hunt on 1710, although his performances in the big money events put him well ahead as the leading money winner with £18,525.\n\nOosterhuis won three European tour events in 1973: the Piccadilly Medal, French Open and Viyella PGA Championship. He was also runner-up in the Sunbeam Electric Scottish Open and Dutch Open. He won the Order of Merit again, with 3440 points, 460 points ahead of Maurice Bembridge. He won £17,455 in official tour events, second behind Tony Jacklin. Oosterhuis won three more European tour events in 1974: the French Open and the last two tournaments of the season, the Italian Open and El Paraiso Open. In addition he was runner-up in five other events, including the Open Championship, and was third in three more, finishing outside the top three only twice during the European Tour season. He won the Order of Merit for the fourth time, nearly 600 points ahead of second-place Dale Hayes.\n\nAlthough he played on the PGA Tour from 1975, Oosterhuis made regular visits to play in the Open Championship and occasionally other European Tour events. He was runner-up in the 1977 Penfold PGA Championship, the 1981 Bob Hope British Classic, and the 1982 Open Championship.\n\nAfter turning professional Oosterhuis played in his first professional tournament in South Africa in January 1969. He played regularly in South Africa from the 1968/69 season until the 1973/74 season.\n\nOosterhuis made his debut on the PGA Tour at the 1971 Greater Greensboro Open, the week before competing in his first Masters. In 1973 Oosterhuis led the Masters Tournament after three rounds before finishing third. In the 1974 Monsanto Open, Oosterhuis lost in a playoff to Lee Elder. This was a historic event as it assured that Elder, an African-American, would be the first black man to play at the Masters. Oosterhuis was not a member of the PGA Tour at this point; he played all of these events on sponsor exemptions.\n\nIn 1974 Oosterhuis entered the qualification process to become a full-time member of the PGA Tour. In November, he finished fourth in the 144-hole PGA Tour Qualifying school, earning his card for the 1975 season. There were high hopes for Oosterhuis' success on the PGA Tour. He was ranked #7 in the world less than a year before joining the PGA Tour and had just won the European Tour Order of Merit for the 4th consecutive time weeks before entering Q-school. He made his debut as a tour player in the opening event of the season, the Phoenix Open. He recorded a second place finish at First NBC New Orleans Open to Billy Casper. He was also in contention for the U.S. Open on the last day. He was four shots back in a 4-way tie for 4th place as he entered the final round. The leaders struggled, however, and Oosterhuis' even-par golf through the first 8 holes was nearly enough to catch them. However, he made four consecutive bogeys in the middle of the round to abruptly eliminate his chances. He would still finish only two back, in a tie for seventh. Oosterhuis also recorded one other top-10 in 1975. His overall record for the year was 28 starts with 24 made cuts along with 3 top-10s and 10 top-25s. Although he did not quite meet the level of success he achieved in the early 1970s, it was nonetheless a promising start on the more challenging American tour.\n\nOosterhuis did not progress on this performance, however. Through the late 1970s he would easily keep his Tour card, but was not a regular contender to win events on the PGA Tour. His year-end statistics through the late 1970s are remarkably similar to his 1975 results. In 1976, he made the cut in 25 of 29 events with 3 top-10s and 11 top-25s. In 1977, he made 18 of 25 cuts with 3 top-10s and 9 top-25s, including a runner-up finish at the Canadian Open, his third and final runner-up finish on tour. In 1978, he recorded 20 made cuts in 24 events with, for the fourth straight year, 3 top-10s as well as 6 top-25s.\n\nOosterhuis' career in America reached its nadir in the summer of 1981. He hadn't recorded a top-10 in over a year. He barely kept his card the previous year, finishing #107 on the money list. He had gotten some advice, however, from former pro and instructor Bert Yancey which \"helped immensely.\" This work eventually paid off as he won the Canadian Open in August 1981. It would be his only PGA Tour win. He defeated Andy North, Bruce Lietzke, and Jack Nicklaus by a shot. Nicklaus had a 20-foot eagle putt on the last hole to tie but missed. He would build on this success, recording 4 top-10s and 13 top-25s in 1982, both his best ever for the PGA Tour. He would also finish runner-up at the 1982 Open Championship.\n\nThe remainder of Oosterhuis' career was not quite as successful. He would record a handful of top-10s before quitting life as a touring professional after the 1986 season.\n\nOosterhuis played on six consecutive Ryder Cup teams for Great Britain and Ireland, and later Europe, from 1971 to 1981. Representing Great Britain and Ireland from 1971 to 1977 he had an impressive record, especially in singles matches. In 1971 he beat Gene Littler and Arnold Palmer, in 1973 he halved with Lee Trevino and beat Palmer again, in 1975 he beat Johnny Miller and J. C. Snead while in 1977 he beat Jerry McGee. At that time he had a singles record of 6 wins, a half and no losses. Although he lost his singles matches, playing for Europe, in his final two Ryder Cup matches, he finished with a 6–2–1 record in singles and with 6½ points is only ½ point behind the overall Ryder Cup singles record of 7 points held by 5 players including Arnold Palmer. Palmer had only three losses in 11 singles matches, two of them by Oosterhuis, the other being by Peter Alliss in 1963. In all matches Oosterhuis had a winning 14–11–3 record in the Ryder Cup, despite being on the losing side on all six occasions.\n\nFrom 1987 to 1993, he was Director of Golf at Forsgate Country Club in Jamesburg, New Jersey, and at the Riviera Country Club in Pacific Palisades, California.\n\nIn 1994, Oosterhuis was hired to cover the PGA Tour by Britain's Sky Sports and covered the Open Championship for the BBC in 1996 and 1997. From 1995 to 1997, he was the lead analyst for the Golf Channel's coverage of the European Tour.\n\nIn 1997, Oosterhuis joined the CBS Sports announcer team part-time, working five events including the Masters and the PGA Championship. In 1998, he joined the CBS golf team full-time. Oosterhuis has also worked on early-round coverage when CBS was covering the weekend, fulfilling this role for ESPN (2003–2006), Golf Channel (1998–2002, 2007–2014), and USA Network (1997–2007). In 2010, Oosterhuis began to work part-time for CBS, again calling about five events per year including the Masters and PGA Championship. Oosterhuis retired from broadcasting following the 2014 PGA Championship due to health concerns stemming from early-onset Alzheimer's disease.\n\nOosterhuis called the action at Augusta National's par 4 17th hole for 18 straight years from 1997 through 2014.\n\nOosterhuis lives in Charlotte, North Carolina in the United States with his second wife, Ruth Ann. He is a member of the Quail Hollow Golf Club there. His son Rob is also a professional golfer.\n\nIn May 2015, Oosterhuis announced that he’s battling early-onset Alzheimer's disease.\n\n\nPGA Tour playoff record (0–1)\n\nEuropean Tour playoff record (2–1)\n\n\"This list may be incomplete.\"\n\nCUT = missed the half-way cut (3rd round cut in 1981 Open Championship)<br>\n\"T\" indicates a tie for a place\n\n\nAmateur\n\nProfessional\n\n"}
{"id": "2283663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283663", "title": "Corrugator supercilii muscle", "text": "Corrugator supercilii muscle\n\nThe corrugator supercilii is a small, narrow, pyramidal muscle close to the eye.\nIt is located at the medial end of the eyebrow, beneath the frontalis and just above orbicularis oculi muscle.\n\nIt arises from the medial end of the superciliary arch; and its fibers pass upward and laterally, between the palpebral and orbital portions of the orbicularis oculi muscle, and are inserted into the deep surface of the skin, above the middle of the orbital arch.\n\nThe name \"corrugator supercilii\" is Latin, meaning \"wrinkler of the eyebrows\".\n\nThe corrugator draws the eyebrow downward and medially, producing the vertical wrinkles of the forehead. It is the \"frowning\" muscle, and may be regarded as the principal muscle in the expression of suffering. It also contracts to prevent high sun glare, pulling the eyebrows toward the bridge of the nose, making a roof over the area above the middle corner of the eye and typical forehead furrows.\n\nThe muscle is sometimes surgically severed or paralysed with botulinum toxin as a preventive treatment for some types of migraine or for aesthetic reasons.\n"}
{"id": "2283664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283664", "title": "Julio Frenk", "text": "Julio Frenk\n\nJulio José Frenk Mora (born December 20, 1953) is a Mexican physician and former secretary of Health of Mexico. Frenk is currently the president of the University of Miami. He is the University of Miami's first Hispanic and native Spanish-speaking president. Frenk formerly served as dean of the faculty and T & G Angelopoulos professor of public health and international development at the Harvard School of Public Health, from 2009 to 2015, where he had been the university's first Hispanic and native Spanish-speaking dean.\n\nFrenk was born in Mexico City, Mexico, on December 20, 1953. His father and grandfather, a Jew who fled to Mexico from Nazi Germany, were both physicians. He received his medical degree, in 1979, from the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM) and went on to obtain three additional advanced degrees: a Master of Public Health (1981), a Master of Arts in sociology (1982), and a joint Doctor of Philosophy in medical care organization and in sociology (1983), from the University of Michigan.\n\nHis professional career began in 1984, when Frenk assumed the position of founding director of the Centre of Public Health Research, Ministry of Health of Mexico, a role he held until 1987. Following that appointment, he went on to serve as the founding director-general of the National Institute of Public Health of Mexico, from 1987 to 1992. From 1995 to 1998, he served as the executive vice president of the Mexican Health Foundation, a private non-profit organization, and the director of its Centre for Health and the Economy. In 1998, he was designated executive director of evidence and information for policy at the World Health Organization (WHO), in Geneva, Switzerland.\n\nFollowing the election of Vicente Fox in Mexico's 2000 presidential election, Frenk was appointed minister of health of Mexico, a position he held until December 2006.\n\nFollowing his service as minister of health, Frenk was tapped to serve as senior fellow in the global health program of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation where he counseled the foundation on global health issues and strategies.\n\nIn addition to his many executive positions, Frenk has served in several academic roles including, senior researcher at the National Institute of Public Health and adjunct professor at the faculty of medicine of the National University of Mexico. He was also awarded the position of national researcher. In 1992–1993, he was visiting professor at the Harvard Center for Population and Development Studies.\n\nHe is the author of 28 books and monographs and many articles in academic journals, as well as in cultural magazines and newspapers. He is also a member of the editorial boards of ten international journals and a member of twelve scientific and professional associations, including the National Academy of Medicine of Mexico and the United States Institute of Medicine. \n\nIn 2003, while serving as secretary of health of Mexico, Frenk introduced Seguro Popular, a program of comprehensive national health insurance which expanded access to health care for tens of millions of previously uninsured Mexicans. One test of any national healthcare delivery program is its durability after the key architects of the plan are no longer in power; Seguro Popular is still operating in late 2016.\n\nIn 2004, Frenk was criticized by tobacco control advocates for cutting an unusual deal with tobacco companies. Philip Morris and British America Tobacco agreed to donate $400 million for health programs in Mexico over 2½ years, but reserved the right to cancel the donation if cigarette taxes were raised\n\nOn July 2005, Frenk met the opposition of Interior Secretary Carlos Abascal, a conservative Catholic, because of the decision of the Ministry of Health to distribute the morning-after pill at government health clinics.\n\nIn September 2006, the Mexican government put Frenk's name forward as a candidate for the vacant position of director-general of the World Health Organization. The British medical journal The Lancet published an editorial endorsing Frenk as the best candidate, while The Wall Street Journal reported that the controversial tobacco deal could hurt his chances for election. The WHO position was awarded to Margaret Chan, in November 2006.\n\nIn July 2010, Frenk joined the board of the Commonwealth Fund.\n\nFrenk assumed the presidency of the University of Miami, on August 16, 2015, a position formerly held by Donna Shalala. He was officially inaugurated on January 29, 2016. He co-edited a collection of nonfiction essays on the subject of global health entitled \"To Save Humanity,\" which includes work from contributors as varied as Michelle Bachelet, Larry Summers, Elton John and himself.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2283666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283666", "title": "Scooby Snack", "text": "Scooby Snack\n\nThe Scooby Snack is a hamburger sold primarily in Glasgow, Scotland. It is a popular fast food item with students. The all time record, completed in 2002, for consecutive Scooby Snacks consumed in one sitting is 3. This tremendous achievement was completed by Peter Ramwell, a Glasgow University student at the time who proudly received a fourth Scooby Snack for free as a reward. \n\nThe Scooby Snack consists of a hamburger, a sliced sausage, a bacon rasher, a potato scone, a fried egg and a slice of processed cheese, all contained within a floured hamburger bun and accompanied by tomato ketchup and brown sauce. Fried onions are also offered as an optional extra. \n\nThe Scooby Snack, because of the sausage, cheese, bacon and egg, takes similar resemblance to a breakfast roll but is often eaten at lunchtime. \n\nThe Scooby Snack's invention is commonly accredited to The Maggie, a food truck located at the intersection of Byres Road and Great Western Road. It is now sold by a number of after-hours fast food vendors throughout Glasgow.\n\nA derivative, the \"Super Scooby\", was invented by The Jolly Fryer café in Bristol in 2009. It consists of four quarter-pound beef patties, eight rashers of bacon, eight slices of cheese, 12 onion rings and six slices of tomato in a sesame seed bun, accompanied by salad, lettuce, barbecue sauce and mayonnaise.\n\nStanding eight inches tall, the sandwich contains , which is more than the recommended daily intake of an adult male. The sandwich costs and comes with chips; If both the burger and chips are consumed in one sitting, customers are given a free Diet Coke to aid digestion.\n"}
{"id": "2283667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283667", "title": "Ekaterina Gordeeva and Sergei Grinkov", "text": "Ekaterina Gordeeva and Sergei Grinkov\n\nEkaterina Gordeeva and Sergei Grinkov refers to a pair skating team. Please see:\n\n"}
{"id": "2283676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283676", "title": "Ernst Barkmann", "text": "Ernst Barkmann\n\nErnst Barkmann (later Ernst Schmuck-Barkmann) (25 August 1919 – 27 June 2009) was a German tank commander in the Waffen-SS of Nazi Germany during World War II. He is known for the actions undertaken at “Barkmann’s corner\", in which it was claimed he halted a major U.S. Army armoured advance in Normandy on 27 July 1944, for which action he received the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross.\n\nBarkmann joined the Nazi Party on 1 September 1938 and served in the Reich Labour Service from November 1938 to March 1939. After this he joined the SS on 1 April 1939, and served during the occupation of Poland. He was posted for a time as an instructor of SS volunteers in the Netherlands. In winter 1942/43 he was posted to the SS Division Das Reich on the Eastern Front, with which he took part in the Third Battle of Kharkov.\n\nIn February 1944, \"Das Reich\" was ordered to France to form a part of the 5th Panzer Army, the armoured reserve for the expected Allied invasion. Following Operation Overlord, the Allied invasion of June 1944, the division reached the front in early July and fought against the American forces near Saint-Lô. Barkmann was awarded the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross. Barkmann participated in the Ardennes Offensive in December 1944 and the fighting on the Eastern Front in the spring of 1945.\n\nBarkmann and his crew was credited with the destruction of at least 82 Soviet, British and US tanks, 136 miscellaneous armoured fighting vehicles and 43 anti-tank guns.\n\nBarkmann's reputed actions in Normandy were challenged by the military historian Steven Zaloga in his 2015 work \"Armored Champion: The Top Tanks of World War II\". In his book he asserts that he has analysed the Allied war records, and was unable to locate the losses claimed by Barkmann. He attributed the narrative of Barkmann's corner to the \"propaganda efforts of the Waffen-SS\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2283682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283682", "title": "Leanna Creel", "text": "Leanna Creel\n\nLeanna Creel (born August 27, 1970 in Los Angeles) is an American actress, film producer, film director, screenwriter and photographer.\n\nCreel is an identical triplet who, along with her sisters, Joy Creel and Monica Lacy, started acting in the late 1980s. They appeared together in two television movies aired on \"The Wonderful World of Disney\": \"Parent Trap III\" and \"\". In 1992, Creel had a guest role in an episode of \"Beverly Hills, 90210\", alongside Monica. That same year, she landed the role of Tori in \"Saved by the Bell\". Following her stint on \"Saved by the Bell\", Creel had guest roles on \"One West Waikiki\" and \"Ned & Stacey\".\n\nShe attended UCLA and received a bachelor's degree in history, and then a master's degree in film and television.\n\nCreel produced her first film in 1994, helping out a friend whose producer had been involved in a car accident. She also worked for the game Hollywood Stock Exchange (HSX). In 1998 she founded a film production company, Ignite Entertainment, with HSX's Michael Burns as President of Production. Creel now runs Creel Studio, a production company specializing in food, travel and lifestyle content and is a photographer and filmmaker.\n\nCreel married Rinat Greenberg on June 17, 2008, when California legalized same-sex marriages. Creel and Greenberg have two sons.\n\n"}
{"id": "2283687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283687", "title": "Dolphin and Union Strait", "text": "Dolphin and Union Strait\n\nDolphin and Union Strait lies in both the Northwest Territories and Nunavut, Canada, between the mainland and Victoria Island. It links Amundsen Gulf, lying to the northwest, with Coronation Gulf, lying to the southeast. The southeastern end of the strait is marked by Austin Bay. It gets its name from the two boats used by John Richardson (naturalist) who first explored it in 1826.\n\nThe Inuit who use this area have been variously known as the Copper Inuit, the Copper Eskimos, or the \"People at the end of the world,\" because few other aboriginal groups had continuously used the area before. This is partly why the first explorers who ventured into this awe-inspiring, lethally-formidable landscape, were amazed by the \"blond\" Inuit they had encountered.\n\nThere are several islands within the strait, including the Liston and Sutton Islands, historically home to the Noahonirmiut band of Copper Inuit.\n\nThe strait is about long and ranges from in width. When frozen, it is used by Barren-ground caribou, known the Dolphin and Union herd, to reach Victoria Island for the summer and to return to the mainland for the winter. Eider ducks are also found in the strait.\n\nThe caribou are known locally as \"tuktu\" which is understood across the circumpolar world. Conversely, eider ducks are called \"kingalik\" which means, simply, \"big-nose\".\n\nIn recent decades, the local Inuvialuit have seen the reduction in average winter sea-ice thickness from roughly in the early 1960s to about even in the dead of winter today. There is also a preponderance of new species from flies to wasps, and new birds arriving that have never been seen before; grizzlies roam where they were once that most rare curiosity.\n"}
{"id": "2283691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283691", "title": "Colin Jeavons", "text": "Colin Jeavons\n\nColin Abel Jeavons (born 20 October 1929) is a retired, English television actor.\n\nJeavons began an association with Dickens productions on BBC Television in 1959 with \"Bleak House\" as Richard Carstone, and \"Great Expectations\" (for the first time) as Herbert Pocket. The same year he played Prince Hal/Henry V in the BBC's \"The Life and Death of Sir John Falstaff\". In 1963 he played the extremely reluctant hero Vadassy forced into espionage in \"Epitaph For a Spy\" for BBC Television.\n\nIn 1966 Jeavons portrayed Uriah Heep in the BBC's \"David Copperfield\". He appeared in a host of 1960s and 1970s TV programmes including \"Doctor Who\" (in \"The Underwater Menace\"), \"Adam Adamant Lives!\" as a murderous fashion designer, as the undertaker Shadrack in \"Billy Liar\" (1973), as businessman Leonard Gold in \"The Sweeney\" (in the 1978 episode \"The Bigger They Are\") , as shop owner Ellery in \"Shoestring in the episode \"Where was I?\" (1980) and \"The Avengers\" (in \"A Touch of Brimstone\" and \"The Winged Avenger\"). Pete Stampede and Alan Hayes wrote of Jeavons in the latter series as \"one of those under-rated, ever-present supporting actors who \"never\" turn in a bad performance.\" On children's TV, he hosted \"Play School\" for a time, and read \"The Black Vicar\" on \"Jackanory\". He also appeared in the 1981 Doctor Who spin-off \"K-9 and Company\", and he narrated two BBC children's animated series, namely 'Barnaby The Bear' and 'Joe'.\n\nHe appeared in the 1978 Play For Today production of David Edgar's 1978 play about British neo-Nazis, \"Destiny\". The same year he played the part of Mr. Johnson, a schoolteacher, in Peter McDougall's BBC supernatural drama \"Tarry-Dan Tarry-Dan Scarey Old Spooky Man\". In 1979 he appeared as Samson Brass in another BBC Dickens production, \"The Old Curiosity Shop\", and then in their 1981 remake of \"Great Expectations\", this time as Wemmick. The same year he played a recurring UFO-obsessed character in the sci-fi comedy \"Kinvig\". His most critically acclaimed role during this period was as the neglected and abused child, Donald, in Dennis Potter's \"Blue Remembered Hills\" (1979).\n\nIn the 1980s he was involved with two dramatisations of Sherlock Holmes stories. He played \"with chilling authority\" in the words of writer David Stuart Davies, Professor Moriarty in \"The Baker Street Boys\" (1982), and \"with great panache\" Inspector Lestrade in the Granada Television series \"The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes\" (featuring Jeremy Brett as Holmes). Producer Michael Cox of the Granada Television series for Sherlock Holmes stated frankly that they were given the best Lestrade of his generation. In the 1981 TV production of \"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\", he portrayed Max Quordlepleen, an entertainer who hosts at Milliways, the Restaurant at the End of the Universe.\n\nJeavons was Briggs, the lawyer who halts the marriage between Jane and Rochester, in the 1983 BBC version of \"Jane Eyre\". In 1984, he played the existentialist philosopher Søren Kierkegaard in the \"Prometheus Unbound\" episode of Don Cupitt's \"Sea of Faith\" for BBC. The following year he played Adolf Hitler in \"\". He played the solicitor Vholes in the 1985 BBC adaptation of \"Bleak House\". In 1986 he was seen in \"Paradise Postponed\".\n\nHe featured in the 1990 television drama \"House of Cards\" by Michael Dobbs, as Tim Stamper, Tory Whip and ally of Ian Richardson's Francis Urquhart. The character returned - promoted initially to Chief Whip, then to Party Chairman - in the 1993 sequel, \"To Play the King\". Jeavons played Del Boy's lawyer, Solly Atwell, in \"Only Fools And Horses\". He also played the role of Genrikh Yagoda in the 1992 television film \"Stalin\".\n\nHe also appeared in a number of films over the years, often as priests or vicars. These included roles in \"The Devil's Daffodil\" (1961), \"Frankenstein Created Woman\" (1967), \"The Other People\" (1968), \"The Oblong Box\" (1969), \"The Games\" (1970), \"Bartleby\" (1970), \"Diagnosis: Murder\" (1975), \"Schizo\" (1976), \"The Island\" (1980), \"The French Lieutenant's Woman\" (1981), \"Absolute Beginners\" (1986) and \"Secret Friends\" (1991). Jeavons retired from acting in 1993.\n\nJeavons' elder son Barney managed the British rock band Reuben, and in 2007 Jeavons emerged from retirement, heavily bearded, to appear as the enigmatic General in Reuben's Rock video \"Blood, Bunny, Larkhall\". In a behind-the-scenes short, Jeavons explained briefly some of the highlights of his acting career. Barney Jeavons is the former Arts Centre Director of the West End Centre in Aldershot.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2283694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283694", "title": "The Bacon Brothers", "text": "The Bacon Brothers\n\nThe Bacon Brothers is an American music duo consisting of brothers Michael Bacon and Kevin Bacon. Although they have played music together since they were boys, the brothers have only been a working band since 1995. Having heard the brother's music, a childhood friend approached them about doing a one night only gig in their hometown of Philadelphia at the Theatre of Living Arts under the moniker The Bacon Brothers. Since then, the band has gone on to release seven studio albums, appear on numerous radio, television, and web programs, and on many tours throughout North America and Europe. The brother's first studio release in 1997 was entitled \"Forosoco\", derived from what the brothers describe their genre to be as a mix of folk, rock, soul, and country.\n\nThe Bacon Brothers also appear on Sandra Boynton's children's CDs \"Dog Train\", and \"Philadelphia Chickens\", on which they sing the title track. Their song \"Chop Wood (Carry Water)\" is on the soundtrack of the 2004 film \"The Woodsman\", which Kevin produced and starred in. Their song \"When You Decide You've Stayed Too Long\" is on the soundtrack of the 2003 film \"Red Betsy\". Kevin starred in and produced \"Loverboy\" with his wife Kyra Sedgwick, which Michael also scored.\n\nIn January 2006, the Bacon Brothers appeared on an episode of \"Queer Eye for the Straight Guy\". The episode featured Michael Bacon as the episode's \"straight guy\" and makeover recipient, and ended with both Bacon Brothers performing.\n\nIn 2008, Michael composed many soundtracks for television, including the soundtrack for the PBS mini series \"The Jewish Americans\" and \"The Kennedys\" for which he won an Emmy.\n\nIn February 2009, the Bacon Brothers were the special guests for Episode 16 of Live From Daryl's House, Daryl Hall's (of Hall & Oates fame) monthly free internet concert. They performed four tracks off their most recent album, as well as some cover songs and the Hall & Oates track \"When The Morning Comes.\n\nIn March 2009 The Bacon Brothers did Hard Rock Cafe's March on Stage with the proceeds going to March On Stage, which is about helping people who make a difference, about giving back to those people that give selflessly of themselves. In the show closing, they were joined on stage by Matt Morris.\n\nIn April 2009 they recorded \"Private Sessions\" which aired on the A&E channel. A new single, \"Guilty of the Crime\", a duet with The Bellamy Brothers, was released in June 2009.\n\nOn June 27, 2009 The Bacon Brothers gave a brief concert, for the fundraisers who climbed to the top of Pikes Peak, Colorado, in support of the Love Hope Strength Foundation. The event was videoed by Matt Carpenter, high altitude marathoner and posted on their Myspace page. Later that night, The Bacon Brothers played a concert at the Denver Hard Rock Cafe. Also playing were Cy Curnin of The Fixx, and The White Buffalo.\n\nThe Bacon Brothers toured throughout the US East Coast during the summer of 2009 promoting their fifth studio album \"New Years Day\" released November 2008. During that tour, the band was a headliner for the WXPN Xpotential Music Festival in Camden, New Jersey. The festival performance featured an appearance from musicians from the Mummers to perform the title track of the record. \n\nThat same summer, Kevin and Michael teamed up with Philadelphia singer Bunny Sigler and a group of mummers from a local string band to record a special edition of their song \"New Years Day\" as a part of a fundraiser to be able to pay for the Mummers Parade in 2010 after the city could no longer fund the parade. An MP3 of the recording was sold online and people paid donations to purchase the song. In addition, they performed a one night only benefit on December 5, 2009 at the Electric Factory in Philadelphia, PA which was broadcast live. The concert included numerous performances such as The Fralinger String Band, and Bunny Sigler onstage with the band. Though many of the people in the crowd were from the Philadelphia area and had ties with the mummers, fans from various cities and states came out to support the band that night and the 2010 Mummers Parade took place. For their service, Kevin and Michael were given positions of grand marshals in the parade.\n\nOn May 6 and 7, 2011, The Bacon Brothers gave two concerts for the new non-profit California Dream Week design contest and event week. The concerts were geared to help promote the event's first year launch and awarded both students and high schools focusing on sustainable design for a healthy planet. Seven students from around California were awarded scholarships for their projects in architecture and design, Transportation, and Product Complements during an award ceremony prior to the May 7 concert. That same year, the band released its greatest hits album entitled \"Philadelphia Road\"consisting of tracks from the first four studio albums.\n\nThe next studio album entitled \"36¢\" was released on September 16, 2014 after an extensive summer of touring throughout North America. The title song of the album was penned by Michael. \"Get a Little\", the fourth song of the album written by Kevin was originally written with the intention of being sung by a young country singer but was ultimately left to be performed by the band. The album also features an unplugged version of the Alanis Morissette song \"You Learn\" and the version of \"Above the Clouds\" recorded from the band's Live from Daryl's House segment from 2009, featuring Tom Wolk on guitar.\n\nOn February 4th 2016, the brothers once again returned to their roots in their hometown of Philadelphia to perform a benefit show at Union Transfer for Friends of the Railpark, which had plans to revitalize the abandoned Reading Viaduct and convert it into an open green space. The event was hosted by renowned Philadelphia WMMR Pierre Robert (DJ).\n\nOn June 1, 2018, the band released its self-titled album, marking the band's seventh studio release and was produced by former Saturday Night Live musical director, G.E. Smith. The first track on the album \"Tom Petty T-Shirt\" hit #8 on iTunes and Spotify, in addition to receiving airplay on Tom Petty Radio on SiriusXM. The song was originally nationally debuted on April 26, 2018 on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon. The tracks \"I Feel You\" and \"Broken Glass\" feature background vocals from Kevin's wife, Kyra Sedgwick and their daughter, actress Sosie Bacon. Sosie was also featured in the band's music video for \"Broken Glass\". \"Beneath Perfection\", the eighth track of the record was written by Kevin while filming the cult classic \"Tremors\", which was originally named \"Beneath Perfection\". The final track, \"Boys in Bars\" originally featured on the band's first studio record \"Forosoco\", was re-recorded at Lehman College Studios in 2016, where Michael Bacon currently teaches as an adjunct professor. \n\nThe band played well over 40 shows across the United States throughout the summer of 2018 to promote the record. The tour was dubbed the \"A Road We Know Too Well\" tour after the fourth track of the album penned by Michael. On this tour, the band was featured on several web series and television programs, including \"Vault Sessions\" by the Songbirds Foundation and the Americana and Roots network \"Ditty TV\". \n\nOver the last few years while the band is on the road on tour, they use some of their downtime to give back to local communities through Kevin's charity SixDegrees.org with drop in performances.\n"}
{"id": "2283697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283697", "title": "Depressor labii inferioris muscle", "text": "Depressor labii inferioris muscle\n\nThe depressor labii inferioris (or quadratus labii inferioris) is a facial muscle that helps lower the bottom lip.\n\nThis muscle arises from the oblique line of the mandible, and inserts on the skin of the lower lip, blending in with the orbicularis oris muscle.\nAt its origin, depressor labii is continuous with the fibers of the platysma muscle. Much yellow fat is intermingled with the fibers of this muscle.\n\nThe depressor labii inferioris is innervated by the mandibular division of the facial nerve.\n\nThis muscle helps to depress the lower lip.\n\n"}
{"id": "2283699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283699", "title": "Michelle Gomez", "text": "Michelle Gomez\n\nMichelle Gomez (born 1966) is a Scottish actress. She is known for her comedy roles in \"The Book Group\" (2002–03), \"Green Wing\" (2004–07) and \"Bad Education\" (2012–13), as well as playing Missy – the female incarnation of The Master in the long running British science-fiction programme \"Doctor Who\" from 2014 to 2017, for which she was nominated for the 2016 BAFTA TV Award for Best Supporting Actress. She is also known for playing Lilith / Madam Satan and Mary Wardwell in Netflix supernatural horror series \"Chilling Adventures of Sabrina\" (2018–present), which is adapted from the comic book series with the same name.\n\nGomez was born in Glasgow to Tony and May Gomez. Her father is originally from Montserrat and is of Portuguese descent. He was a photographer, and her mother ran a modelling agency.\n\nFrom the moment she saw a production of \"Kiss Me, Kate\" at the age of seven, Gomez wanted to be an actress, which her parents encouraged. She attended Shawlands Academy from 1978 to 1983 and trained at the Royal Scottish Academy of Music and Drama.\n\nGomez's first major role was in the 1998 film \"The Acid House\", based on three Irvine Welsh short stories. She went on to star in the cult Channel 4 comedy drama \"The Book Group\" before landing her role as staff liaison officer Sue White in the Channel 4 comedy \"Green Wing\". She played Michelle in \"Carrie and Barry\" for the BBC (which coincidentally debuted the same night as \"Green Wing\"), and starred as PC Sally Bobbins in the BBC 2 sitcom \"Feel the Force\". She appeared in \"Gunslinger's Revenge\".\n\nIn 2005, Gomez appeared in the film \"Chromophobia\". In 2006, she starred in the film \"The Good Housekeeping Guide\". In 2007 she starred in a drama by Irvine Welsh and Dean Cavanagh called \"Wedding Belles\", and starred in \"Boeing-Boeing\" at the Comedy Theatre in London. Also in 2007, she guest-starred in the \"Doctor Who\" audio play \"Valhalla\". In 2008 she joined the Royal Shakespeare Company, and performed as Kate in \"The Taming of the Shrew\" at the Courtyard Theatre and the Novello Theatre.\n\nIn 2012, Gomez starred in the British film \"The Wedding Video\", portraying the psychologically unstable wedding planner. In the same year, she appeared in the British comedy series \"Bad Education\", portraying the deputy-head Isobel Pickwell, which returned for a second series in 2013. In 2014, she began producing comedy sketches as \"Heather\" an agony aunt for YouTube channel Wildseed Studios.\n\nShe had a recurring role in series 8 - 10 of \"Doctor Who\" as a character called Missy. Her true identity was later revealed in the series' two-part finale \"Dark Water\" / \"Death in Heaven\" as a female incarnation of the Master, the Doctor's longstanding nemesis. Gomez reprised the role in the opening two-part story of the ninth series \"The Magician's Apprentice\" / \"The Witch's Familiar\" and again in the show's tenth series, which began broadcasting in April 2017. In May 2017, Gomez stated that it would be her last series in the role.\n\nGomez's portrayal of Missy earned her a nomination for the Best Actress (Television) award at the 2015 British Academy Scotland Awards. Later, Gomez also received a nod as Best Supporting Actress at the British Academy Television Awards.\n\nIn 2018, Gomez was cast as Lilith / Madam Satan and Mary Wardwell in the Netflix series \"Chilling Adventures of Sabrina\".\n\nGomez has been married to actor Jack Davenport since 1 May 2000. She gave birth to their son, Harry, in early 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2283702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283702", "title": "Dulaney Valley Memorial Gardens", "text": "Dulaney Valley Memorial Gardens\n\nDulaney Valley Memorial Gardens and Mausoleum is a cemetery and mausoleum in Timonium, Maryland, a Baltimore County suburban community. It is located at 200 E. Padonia Rd, about two miles (3 km) east from the Padonia Road exit off Interstate 83. The 7th and 6th holes of the Longview Golf Course border much of the cemetery; the other borders are Padonia Road and a residential neighborhood. Dulaney High School is nearby and the cemetery's administrative offices are directly across the street from the main entrance to the burial park. There is another entrance leading to Gibbons Road but this is normally kept locked.\n\nFounded in 1958 by John Warfield Armiger, Sr., the cemetery was owned and managed by the Armiger family until July 17, 2007, when it was sold to Mitchell-Wiedefeld Funeral Home corporation. It averages 900 burials annually. Dulaney Valley Memorial Gardens has a large mausoleum and chapel with a number of stained glass windows.\n\nThe cemetery has a \"Fallen Heroes\" section and memorial tableau, dedicated to police officers and firefighters from the local area who were killed in the line of duty and interred there at no charge. The cemetery holds a \"Fallen Heroes Day\" commemoration each May with an invited speaker.\n\nThere is also a \"Field of Honor\" surmounted by a circle of flags for deceased military veterans. Dedicated on National Flag Day, June 14, 1967, the tribute is supported by the American Legion and other veterans' groups. An annual Memorial Day ceremony with invited dignitaries attracts large crowds there.\n\nNotables interred at Dulaney Valley Memorial Gardens include:\n\nThere is also a cenotaph in memory of former Comptroller of Maryland Louis L. Goldstein, who is interred at Wesley Cemetery in Prince Frederick, Maryland.\n\n"}
{"id": "2283707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283707", "title": "Lake Kohlmeier", "text": "Lake Kohlmeier\n\nLake Kohlmeier is a large artificial pond in Owatonna, Minnesota. It was created in an abandoned gravel mine using the natural flooding of springwater. The lake is named after the former owner of the property and operator of the aggregate business once operated there. The lake once hosted the municipal beach and continues to be used for swimming, fishing, and boating.\n\n"}
{"id": "2283716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283716", "title": "New African", "text": "New African\n\nNew African is an English-language monthly news magazine based in London. Published since 1966, it is read by many people across the African continent and the African diaspora. It claims to be the oldest pan-African monthly in English, as well as \"the bestselling pan-African magazine\". It is published by IC Publications, which also publishes \"African Banker\", \"New African Woman\" and \"African Business\" ().\n\nThe magazine was founded in 1966 under the name \"African Development\". In 1977 it was renamed \"New African Development\", a name that it retained until the following year. In 1978 it was rebranded \"New African\".\n\nIC Publishing and specifically \"New African\" magazine served as the host and promoter of a number of trade and investment fairs and/or conferences on behalf of COMESA (Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa). In particular, the COMESA Investment Forum meetings held in Sharm-Al-Shekh, Egypt and Dubai, UAE have involved a high amount of pro-Chinese programming and media content. Of note, the financial \"arm\" of COMESA that manages COMESA's trade agreements and investment portfolios is the Preferential Trade Area Bank (PTA Bank), of which the sole non-African member and largest non-regional shareholding state is China.\n\nIC Publishing is also the organizer and promoter of the Africa and Southeast Asia Business Forum, an annual business conference focused on Sino-African trade relationships. Of note, the primary financial supporter and endorser of the AFRICASEA Forum is BRICS.\n\nIn 2007 IC Publications launched a French-language edition of the \"New African\" entitled \"Le Magazine De l'Afrique\" (\"The Magazine of Africa\"), which features content relating to Francophone Africa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2283720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283720", "title": "International House", "text": "International House\n\nInternational House, International Student House, or International Students House is the name of or may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2283722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283722", "title": "Frank Ryan", "text": "Frank Ryan\n\nFrank Ryan may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2283723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283723", "title": "James Marsh (chemist)", "text": "James Marsh (chemist)\n\nJames Marsh (2 September 1794 – 21 June 1846) was a British chemist who invented the Marsh test for detecting arsenic.\n\nWhile Marsh was most famous for inventing the test that bears his name, he was also a skilled and inventive scientist who held the post of Ordnance Chemist at the Royal Arsenal at Woolwich. He developed the screw time fuze for mortar shells and in 1830 the percussion tube. In 1832 \"HMS Castor\" was the first ship to have her guns modified with these innovations. They were not approved for the Army until 1845, when Woolwich began their manufacture—for coastal artillery only. They became obsolete in 1866. Marsh also worked as an assistant to Michael Faraday at the nearby Royal Military Academy from 1829 to 1846.\n\nMarsh invented the earliest form of vibrating electrical interrupter in 1824. It consisted of a straight wire electrically connected and flexibly suspended at the top while the lower end extending into a shallow mercury filled trough which served as a second electrical contact. The lower end of the wire was also positioned between the poles of a powerful permanent horseshoe-shaped magnet. When electric current flowed through the wire, the magnetic field of the wire created a force with the field of the permanent magnet such that the wire would rotate out of the mercury trough and interrupt the electrical circuit. Without the magnetic force, the wire would then fall back due to the force of gravity into the mercury thereby restoring the connection and restarting the cycle of vibration.\n\nIn 1832 Marsh was called as a chemist by the prosecution in a murder trial, wherein a certain John Bodle was accused of poisoning his grandfather with arsenic-laced coffee. Marsh performed the standard test by mixing a suspected sample with hydrogen sulfide and hydrochloric acid. While he was able to detect arsenic as yellow arsenic trisulfide, when it came to showing it to the jury it had deteriorated, allowing the suspect to be acquitted due to reasonable doubt. Annoyed by this, Marsh developed a much better test. He combined a sample containing arsenic with sulfuric acid and arsenic-free zinc, resulting in arsine gas. The gas was ignited, and it decomposed to pure metallic arsenic which, when passed to a cold surface, would appear as a silvery-black deposit. So sensitive was the test that it could detect as little as one-fiftieth of a milligram of arsenic. He first described this test in \"The Edinburgh Philosophical Journal\" in 1836.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2283724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283724", "title": "University of Gabès", "text": "University of Gabès\n\nThe University of Gabès (, ) is a public university located in southern Tunisia with headquarters in Gabès.\n\nThe university has two main campuses in Gabès and another major one in the city of Medenine, south of Gabès.\n\nThe largest campus of the university is in a somewhat isolated southern part of the city near Erriadh suburb. Close to this campus is the largest sport complex in Gabès where some facilities are shared with the university. The campus is very close to the main road leading to the airport and tourist city of Matamata which is a favorite destination for students' weekend trips.\n\nThis campus is in downtown Gabès and hosts the University Cultural Center.\n\nAlthough the University of Gabès was formed relatively recently, it offers numerous faculties and institutes:\n\n\n\n\nThe university offers the following degrees:\n\nThe university offers some postgraduate degrees:\n\n"}
{"id": "2283736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283736", "title": "Golden Lions", "text": "Golden Lions\n\nThe Golden Lions (currently known as the Xerox Golden Lions for sponsorship reasons) is a South African professional rugby union team based in Johannesburg, South Africa who compete in the annual Currie Cup and Vodacom Cup. The team is governed by the Golden Lions Rugby Union (GLRU), and was originally known as Transvaal (after Transvaal Province), before changes to the political landscape in South Africa forced a name change to the Gauteng Lions, before again being changed to the Golden Lions. The GLRU also operate a side in the Super Rugby competition, the , who also draw players from Griquas.\n\nThe Transvaal Rugby Union, with its headquarters in Johannesburg, was formed in 1889 after delegates from different clubs in the region decided to form a united rugby union to look after the well-being of the clubs. Prominent clubs involved in the process were Pirates, Wanderers, Pretoria, Potchefstroom and Kaffrarians. The first elected president was Bill Taylor (born 1858). Transvaal's first match was against Griquas in Kimberley on 31 August 1889.\n\nThe original colours used by Transvaal were dark blue and white jerseys, blue shorts and blue-and-white socks. It is unsure when the union decided to switch over to a white jersey with a red hoop with black shorts and socks. There is also a school of thought that the union adopted the famous Kilmarnock strip of white top with red hoop as a Kilmarnock member, Alex Frew, captained them when they beat The British Isles touring team in 1903. These colours are still in use today. It is also from these colours that the teams’ nickname, \"Rooibontes\" came from.\n\nThe original union encompassed a much bigger catchment area than it does currently. Unions that gained independence from Transvaal are Western Transvaal (currently the Leopards) in 1920, Northern Transvaal (currently the Blue Bulls) in 1938, and Eastern Transvaal (currently the Pumas) in 1948. Robert Owen Loftus Versfeld, after which the stadium in Pretoria is named, was a lifetime member of the Transvaal Rugby Football Union. According to a Lions tale – 120 years of the red and white, Versfeld died of a heart attack at Ellis Park in 1932 when he attended a match between Transvaal and the Free State.\n\nThe union has undergone several name changes in recent years – first changing its name to the Lions in 1993, the Gauteng Lions in 1997, before finally changing to The Golden Lions Rugby Union (GLRU) in 1998. The GLRU competes in the Currie Cup and Vodacom Cup competitions under the sponsorship name of Xerox Golden Lions. The GLRU serves as the main feeder union for the Lions, in Super Rugby, which also encompass the and the , although very few of their players have been historically selected. The Golden Lions and Lions share the same home stadium, Ellis Park, located in the suburb of Doornfontein.\n\nIn the 1980s the union ran into serious financial trouble, mostly as a result of redeveloping Ellis Park. Transvaal supporters nearly did not have a union to support anymore as at one stage the most likely outcome was that the union would disband. In 1984 the union had R37 million of debts to repay, which forced Volkskas Bank to carry the union for a period. This debt mainly came from the union redeveloping the old Ellis Park into a modern 80,000- seat stadium in 1980. The union started out with R1 million of its own money, and intended to raise another R12 million through the sales of suites and life memberships. However, due to the underperforming team, the union had a hard time to sell these ideas to businessmen and the intended revenue to fund the stadium never materialized.\n\nIn March 1984 Volkskas took over the management of Ellis Park. By August the union was told to repay debts of more than R40 million by 4 September. According to Louis Luyt in his autobiography, Walking Proud, the union was left with interest amounting to R20,000 per day. It was at this time that the then president Jannie le Roux was ousted by the clubs on 3 September 1984, and in his place came self-made millionaire Dr. Louis Luyt, a former provincial lock forward for the Orange Free State. Through the business acumen of Dr Luyt, the union was able to become financially stable once again. Dr Luyt saw an opportunity to use Ellis Park as a way for the union to cover its debt, and according to him in his autobiography, Walking Proud, used this asset as a means of renegotiating the unions’ debt with Volkskas Bank and the Johannesburg City Council. \nIn order to refinance the debt the union would relinquish control of Ellis Park, and control of the stadium would be taken by a new company called Ellis Park Stadium Incorporated (EPSI) on which Volkskas would have 6 board members, the City Council 3 members and the Louis Luyt group 3 members. Thus the rugby union had no representation on the board. The rugby union would however be contractually obliged to play all future matches at the venue, and would have first right over the use of Ellis Park. However, 20% of all gate receipts generated would be paid over to EPSI. However, Volkskas was not fond of this idea, and eventually took complete control over the stadium as a new company called Ellis Park Stadium Pty Ltd. According to Luyt the union would now be allowed to keep 25% of its gate revenue plus R100 000 of the advertising revenue. Luyt also managed to negotiate a clause stipulating that the rugby union had first right of refusal should Volkskas decide to sell the stadium in the future.\n\nIn 1987 the bank decided to sell the stadium to a Mr Johan Claassen for R26.5 million, but with the union having first right of refusal, Luyt started working along with First National Bank (FNB) to buy the stadium back for the union. At the time FNB wanted to rename the stadium First National Stadium, although the City Council was against this as they wanted the stadium to retain the name of their former city councilman who provided the area for the stadium. This is in stark contrast when the stadium name was sold to Coca-Cola in 2008. Eventually FNB provided the union with the finance needed to take control of the stadium. Luyt reduced the capacity of the stadium from 80 000 to 60 000 by adding 88 suites behind the two goal posts. His rationale for this was that the general public preferred to sit on the sides of the field, thus these seats were deemed economically unviable. However, companies were satisfied to have any suite in the stadium. Thus even when losing 20 000 seats, the union was able to generate a bigger income from this \"dead space\" of the stadium. Even before construction on the suites started, they were fully subscribed. The cost of building the suites were R4 million, and the revenue of selling these were R25 million. Even though seating was reduced the union was able to show a constant revenue stream because of the suites.\nEventually Luyt listed the stadium on the stock exchange, although this venture was unsuccessful. In spite of the unsuccessful stock exchange listing the union was able to repay all of its debt by 1993. Ellis Park was known as Coca-Cola Park between 2008 and 2012, although as one of the FIFA World Cup 2010 venues, for the period of the world cup, it was known as Ellis Park again. The stadium, and surrounding swimming arena and indoor sports arena, is run by Ellis Park World of Sport Pty Ltd, in which the GLRU has a stake.\n\nEven though the Lions are regarded as one of the most successful teams in South African rugby history, the union was for a long time regarded as the perennial underachievers. After winning the Currie Cup in 1972 for the sixth time, supporters had to wait a further 21 years for the trophy to return to Johannesburg. Even though the pain of not securing the Currie Cup was somewhat soothed by winning the Lion Cup (a now extinct knock out competition) in 1986, 1987 and 1992, it was Currie Cup glory supporters were really craving.\n\nThe team did come close on a few occasions, but always seemed to fail at the final hurdle losing the final in 1974, 1986, 1987, 1991 and 1992. Finally however, under the guidance of Kitch Christie as head coach and Francois Pienaar as captain, the side was able to win the Currie Cup in 1993 with a 21-15 victory over Natal in Durban. Memorably, Uli Schmidt (hooker) scored the winning try after chasing down a kick. The union repeated their success in 1994 by beating the Orange Free State by 56-35 in Bloemfontein. This was however not the end of the union's success.\n\nThey also managed to win the 1993 Super 10 with a 20-17 win over Auckland from New Zealand in Johannesburg – thus making the union the first South African team to win a trans-national title. In 1995 Transvaal reached the final of the Super 10 again but lost to the Australian Queensland. The union also managed to scalp the 1993 and 1994 M-Net night series, a pre-season warm up competition. It was also during the 1993 season that the team managed to go on an unbeaten run of 19 games (18 wins, 1 draw). The Lions won the Currie Cup again in 1999 when they beat the Sharks 32-9 in Durban, and were on the losing side in the 2002 and 2007 finals. They ended their 12-year trophy drought in 2011, beating the 42-16 in the final in Johannesburg.\n\nAs a result of South African sides being uncompetitive in the expanded Super 12 competition, South African Rugby decided to manage their 14 provincial unions as franchises, combining the unions for the Super 12 competition, before splitting up again to compete as 14 separate sides in the Currie Cup. The old way of using the Currie Cup as a qualifying competition for the Super 12 was thus scrapped. The GLRU was combined with the Free State Cheetahs and Griquas to form the Cats Super 12 franchise. Although home games were mostly played at Ellis Park, some games were also played in Bloemfontein at the Free State Stadium (formerly Springbok Park). This caused the franchise considerable administrative problems in forming a united identity between the three provincial teams and their supporters. Players were also reportedly unhappy about the travel arrangements with the members of the Cheetahs and Griquas often being away from their families for extended periods of time. As the Cats the franchise never really achieved the great heights it was expected to, considering that two of South Africa's biggest teams were part of the franchise. The Cats did however have a good spell in 2000 and 2001 when under the guidance of former New Zealand coach Laurie Mains the union managed to recruit several young stars like Joe Gillingham, Cobus Gomes, Rory Kockot and reach the semi-finals of the Super 12, where they lost to the Brumbies and the Sharks respectively. Incidentally, as core of the franchise, the Lions won the 1999 Currie Cup, also under the guidance of Mains.\n\nAfter the Super 12 was expanded in 2006 to become the Super 14, South African Rugby was awarded an additional franchise. Even though there was pressure from government to award the franchise to the Eastern Cape-based Southern Spears (now the Southern Kings), the franchise was awarded to the Free State Cheetahs and Griquas thus ending their involvement with the Cats. The Cats were now made up of the Lions, the Leopards and the Pumas. The Johannesburg Super 14 franchise was still known as the Cats in 2006, but finally rebranded themselves as the Super 14 Lions in 2007.\n\nMidway through 2008, Prof. Jannie Fereirra was replaced by former Lions and Springbok lock Kevin de Klerk as president of the GLRU. Throughout the 2000s attendances at Ellis Park has been on the downslide, with the team's performances following a similar course. With the rise of the Sharks, Blue Bulls and to a lesser extent Western Province, and the tendency of South Africans to play in Europe, the GLRU had difficulty in keeping their star players contracted. Some of the players who left the GLRU during the 2000s were: Andre Vos, Rassie Erasmus, Joe Gillingham, Andre Pretorius, Willie Wepener, Ethienne Reyneke, Thinus Delport, Schalk Brits, Wikus van Heerden, Gcobani Bobo, Conrad Jantjies, Gerhard Mostert, Anton van Zyl, Jaco Pretorius, Gerhard Vosloo, Joe van Niekerk, Wayne Julies, Ernst Joubert, Enrico Januarie, with players such as Rory Kockot being lost through the unions youth system. The union also lost the services of long serving Springbok Jaque Fourie in 2009 even though the player was still under contract. Fourie came through the Lions youth system, representing the union at school, u/19 and u/21 level. Fourie took his contract to arbitration after which was found that his contract was not legally binding on a technical point. This opened the door for Willem Alberts and Louis Ludik to join the Sharks for the 2010 season, even though they were also under contract with the GLRU.\n\nIn 2009 the GLRU invited former Springbok coach Jake White’s company \"Winning Ways\" to conduct an audit of the Union's systems and structures, after which it was recommended that immediate changes needed to be made. After three seasons of underachievement with the Super Rugby franchise, Eugene Eloff was dismissed as coach, and Hans Coetzee was appointed as interim coach. The players threatened to strike in response, and lost their next match to the touring British and Irish Lions, who ran in ten tries to win 74–10. White's audit was particularly severe on the physical conditioning of the players and the poor defence displayed by the union.\n\nThe Xerox Lions finished sixth on the 2009 Currie Cup, losing 6 games by less than 7 points with physical conditioning and defence being a particular focus for their campaign. In November 2009 Dick Muir, former Sharks head coach and current Springboks backline coach, was appointed Director of Rugby – a task encompassing looking after the unions rugby structures as well as taking control of the Auto and General Super 14 Lions as head coach. Coetzee and former Springbok lock, Johan Ackerman were appointed as his assistants. \n\nAlthough the Lions have lost quite a few players throughout 2009, new players signed for 2010 include Tonderai Chavangha (Springbok wing), Carlos Spencer (All Black Flyhalf), Wikus van Heerden (Springbok flanker), Deon van Rensburg (centre), Marius Delport (utility back), JP Joubert (scrumhalf), Jonathan Mokuena and Burton Francis (Flyhalf).\nIn 2011 under new coach John Mitchell, a new style was implemented into the team that would lead the Lions to their first Currie Cup title in 12 years.\nIn December 2012 the Union announced that Manie Booysen had been appointed as new CEO, starting his role in January 2013. He replaced Ruben Moggee, who had served as interim CEO for fourteen months.\nBefore the 2013 Currie Cup the Lions lost a lot players due to the Lions franchise being relegated from the Super Rugby competition in 2013.\n\nThe team had to rebuild again with new players and new head coach Johan Ackermann. New CEO Rudolf Straeuli and President Kevin De Klerk. With their new style of rugby that was mostly used by New Zealand teams being implemented by Johan Ackermann, they reached the Currie Cup final twice in a row, losing to Western Province in 2014 at Newlands and winning in 2015 against Western Province at Ellis Park after going undefeated the season. After being promoted back to Super Rugby in 2014, the Lions have reached the finals in both 2016 and 2017. They have also produced a number of new Springboks including captain Warren Whiteley. In the 2017 Currie Cup season Swyn De Bruin was appointed the New head coach\n\n Orange Free State have since been renamed to the Free State Cheetahs.\n\nThe following players were included in the Golden Lions squad for the 2019 Currie Cup Premier Division:\n\n"}
{"id": "2283742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283742", "title": "Ultraviolence (band)", "text": "Ultraviolence (band)\n\nUltraviolence is a British industrial/techno band, formed in London in 1991 and headed by 'the Quentin Tarantino of techno' Johnny Violent (b. Jonathan Casey). To date, they have released five studio albums, including a ten-year retrospective, and six EPs/singles. The group have produced a number of club classics which include the tracks \"Hardcore Motherfucker\" and \"Psycho Drama\" and have been recognised as being at the 'forefront of the UK Industrial-Cyber scene'. The Ultraviolence sound incorporates elements from various styles including hardcore techno/gabber, breakbeat hardcore, industrial techno, power noise, metal and rap.\n\nA substantial body of the Ultraviolence releases received positive critical reception since the first album \"Life of Destructor\" gaining '5Ks' from \"Kerrang!\" magazine. In 2004 Ultraviolence released a retrospective two CD album titled \"Blown Away 1994-2004\".\n\nViolent has worked with several female vocal artists on different releases, but as of 2005, singer and angle grinding stage performer Mel Allezbleu has become a permanent member of the band.\n\nCasey first experimented in making electronic music in his teens. After attending Goldsmiths College in London for a diploma in sound engineering and working in a record shop, he tried his hand at gigging locally with a college friend.\n\nHe got into production in a serious way in late 1990 and adopted the name Johnny Violent (aka Ultraviolence) in reference to the film \"A Clockwork Orange\". He saved up money for some studio time and recorded and handful of tracks including \"You'll Never Sleep Tonight\" which was played by John Peel on BBC Radio 1 and gained the attention of London label Food Records, who signed Violent in 1992.\n\nThe relationship between Ultraviolence and the trendy, indie-orientated Food Records was never likely to be a happy one and soon dissolved. It was 1994 before the debut album \"Life of Destructor\" was released on Nottingham's Earache Records label. Earache had been previously known for releasing extreme heavy metal acts such as Carcass and Napalm Death. Nevertheless, the relationship between Violent and Earache's label owner Digby Pearson proved a fruitful and durable one over the next decade.\n\nIt was the second album, \"Psycho Drama\" (1996), that made critics start to believe there was more to the act than pure noise terror. Highly ambitious in concept and execution, \"Psycho Drama\" was a full-length gabber \"opera\", telling the tortured love story of the \"Hitman\" and \"Jessica\" characters.\n\nIn 1995, Ultraviolence toured the US with fellow UK industrialists Cubanate. However, the limitations of Violent's one-man stage shows were becoming apparent and American audiences never quite took to Ultraviolence like Techno-aware European crowds. From this point on, Violent usually appeared on-stage backed by various singers, dancers and showers of sparks from male or female angle-grinders.\n\nThe third album, 1998's \"Killing God\" marked a new transition to a new, more commercial Ultraviolence sound, dubbed \"happy hardcore\" by some, although the lyrical themes remained as bleak as ever. The album contained a cover of the Black Sabbath classic song \"Paranoid\".\n\nIn 2001, the fourth Ultraviolence album, \"Superpower\" was released, again groping for a wider market.\n\nIn 2014, Jonathan Casey won the Gardens Category of the Royal Horticultural Society Photographic Competition 2013 for his photograph of Kentwell Hall Moat\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2283750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283750", "title": "ACI", "text": "ACI\n\nACI may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2283755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283755", "title": "Geniohyoid muscle", "text": "Geniohyoid muscle\n\nThe geniohyoid muscle is a narrow muscle situated superior to the medial border of the mylohyoid muscle. It is named for its passage from the chin (\"genio-\" is a standard prefix for \"chin\") to the hyoid bone.\n\nIt arises from the inferior mental spine, on the back of the mandibular symphysis, and runs backward and slightly downward, to be inserted into the anterior surface of the body of the hyoid bone. It lies in contact with its fellow of the opposite side. It thus belongs to the suprahyoid muscles. The muscle is supplied by branches of the lingual artery.\n\nThe geniohyoid muscle is innervated by fibres from the first cervical nerve travelling alongside the hypoglossal nerve. These fibers are called ansa cervicalis.\n\nIt may be blended with the one on opposite side or double; slips to greater cornu of hyoid bone and genioglossus occur.\n\nThe geniohyoid muscle brings the hyoid bone forward and upwards. This dilates the upper airway, assisting respiration. During the first act of deglutition, when the mass of food is being driven from the mouth into the pharynx, the hyoid bone, and with it the tongue, is carried upward and forward by the anterior bellies of the Digastrici, the Mylohyoidei, and Geniohyoidei. It also assists in depressing the mandible\n\nThe inclined position of the geniohyoid muscle has been contrasted to the horizontal position in neanderthals.\n\n"}
{"id": "2283758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283758", "title": "Mylohyoid muscle", "text": "Mylohyoid muscle\n\nThe mylohyoid muscle is a paired muscle running from the mandible to the hyoid bone, forming the floor of the oral cavity of the mouth. It is named after its two attachments near the molar teeth (\"\"mylo\"\" comes from the Greek word for \"molar\"). These muscles are mesodermal in embryologic origin. The mylohyoid muscle is derived from the first pharyngeal arch. It forms the floor of the submental triangle.\n\nThe mylohyoid muscle is flat and triangular, and is situated immediately superior to the anterior belly of the digastric muscle. It is a pharyngeal muscle (derived from the first pharyngeal arch) and classified as one of the suprahyoid muscles. Together, the paired mylohyoid muscles form a muscular floor for the oral cavity of the mouth.\n\nThe two mylohyoid muscles arise from the mandible at the mylohyoid line, which extends from the mandibular symphysis in front to the last molar tooth behind. The posterior fibers pass inferomedially and insert at anterior surface of the hyoid bone. The medial fibres of the two mylohyoid muscles unite in a midline raphe (where the two muscles intermesh).\n\nThe mylohyoid muscle separates the sublingual space from the submandibular space, which communicate via a lateral gap between the mylohyoid and hyoglossus muscles at the posterior free margin of mylohyoid muscle. The submandibular gland wraps around the edges of the mylohyoid, and is divided into superficial and deep lobes above and below the muscle.\n\nThe mylohyoid muscle is innervated by a branch of the mandibular nerve, the inferior alveolar nerve. The mylohyoid nerve is a branch of the inferior alveolar nerve. The mylohyoid nerve emerges to give motor supply to the mylohyoid muscle.\n\nThe mylohyoid may be united to or replaced by the anterior belly of the digastric muscle; accessory slips to other hyoid muscles are frequent. This median raphé is sometimes absent; the fibers of the two muscles are then continuous.\n\nAn area of herniation of the sublingual gland, blood vessels, or fat, may be present, with studies reporting this in 10-50% of people.\n\nThe mylohyoid elevates the hyoid and the tongue. This is particularly important during swallowing and speaking. Alternatively, if other muscles are used to keep the position of the hyoid fixed, then the mylohyoid depresses the mandible. It also functions as reinforcing the floor of mouth.\n\nThe mylohyoid may be imaged by CT or MRI. The mylohyoid separates the submandibular space below from the sublingual space above. Around the posterior border of mylohoid, these spaces communicate. Infections, especially odontogenic infections can spread from one space to the other via this communication, or alternatively penetrate the mylohyoid which is a poor barrier to the spread of infection. Because the attachment of mylohyoid (the mylohoid line) becomes more superior towards the posterior of the mandible, posterior infected teeth are more likely to drain into the submandibular space, and infected anterior teeth are more likely to drain into the sublingual space, since the apices of the teeth are more likely to be below and above the mylohoid line respectively (see diagram).\n\n"}
{"id": "2283764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283764", "title": "Stylohyoid muscle", "text": "Stylohyoid muscle\n\nThe stylohyoid muscle is a slender muscle, lying anterior and superior of the posterior belly of the digastric muscle. It shares this muscle's innervation by the facial nerve, and functions to draw the hyoid bone backwards and elevate the tongue. Its origin is the styloid process of the temporal bone. It inserts on the body of the hyoid .\n\nIt arises from the posterior and lateral surface of the styloid process of the temporal bone, near the base; and, passing inferior and anterior, it is inserted into the body of the hyoid bone, at its junction with the greater cornu, and just superior the omohyoid muscle. It thus belongs to the group of suprahyoid muscles.\n\nWhen contracted, it elevates the hyoid, this action is primarily brought about during swallowing.\n\nIt is perforated, near its insertion, by the intermediate tendon of the digastric muscle.\n\nA branch of the facial nerve (CN VII) innervates the stylohyoid muscle.\n\nIt may be absent or doubled, lie beneath the carotid artery, or be inserted into the omohyoid, or mylohyoid muscles.\n\nThe stylohyoid muscle elevates and retracts hyoid bone. It initiates a swallowing action by pulling the hyoid bone in a posterior and superior direction.\n\n"}
{"id": "2283766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283766", "title": "USS Nicholas (DD-311)", "text": "USS Nicholas (DD-311)\n\nUSS \"Nicholas\" (DD-311) was a \"Clemson\"-class destroyer in the United States Navy following World War I. She was the first Navy ship named for Samuel Nicholas (1744–1790), the first Commandant of the United States Marine Corps.\n\n\"Nicholas\" was laid down 11 January 1919 by Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corporation, San Francisco, California; launched 1 May 1919; sponsored by Miss Edith Barry; and commissioned at Mare Island Navy Yard 23 November 1920, Lieutenant Commander Herndon B. Kelly in command.\n\nAssigned to Reserve Destroyer Divisions, Pacific Fleet, \"Nicholas\" departed Mare Island on 17 December 1920 for San Diego, California, arriving on the 20th and remaining principally in that area with a reduced complement through 1922. The destroyer sailed on 6 February 1923 as part of Destroyer Squadron 11 for combined fleet operations in the Panama Canal Zone. Arriving Balboa twenty days later following exercises en route, the warship engaged in tactical and strategic maneuvers through the end of March and returned to San Diego on 11 April. From 25 June to 31 August, \"Nicholas\" and DesRon 11 cruised the coast of Washington, putting in at Tacoma, Port Angeles, and Seattle and serving as escort to President Warren G. Harding in \"Henderson\" on his arrival at Seattle on 27 July. She then participated in squadron maneuvers through the end of August with Battleship Division 3, putting in at San Francisco on the 31st.\n\n\"Nicholas\" sailed for her homeport at 08:30, 8 September, in company with most of DesRon 11 under Captain Edward H. Watson, with \"Delphy\" leading the way. Engaged in a high-speed engineering run down the Pacific Coast, the squadron changed course at 21:00 as inaccurate navigation indicated this was the approach to Santa Barbara Channel. At 21:05, \"Delphy\" stranded on the rocks of Point Pedernales, known to sailors as Honda, or the Devil’s Jaw; though warning signals were sent up by the flagship, the sheltering configuration of the coast line prevented their recognition by the remaining ships of DesRon 11 and in the ensuing confusion, six other destroyers — including \"Nicholas\" — ran aground also. \"Nicholas\"’ skipper, Lt. Cmdr. Herbert Roesch, did his utmost to prevent the loss of the destroyer as the heavy seas broke over her and Honda’s rocks pushed into her hull, but the ship was taken by currents and drifted slowly astern, coming to a stop stern-high on a clump of rocks with a 25° list to starboard.\n\nThroughout the night, the crew attempted to save \"Nicholas\" but in the morning as the waves mounted and \"Nicholas\"’ situation became critical, the Captain ordered “Abandon Ship”. The order was accomplished and brought the entire crew ashore safely. Of the seven destroyers' crews, only 23 lives were lost. Considered out of commission on 26 October 1923, \"Nicholas\" was struck from the Navy List with her six squadron mates on 20 November. After a number of abortive bids, the destroyer was finally sold on 19 October 1925 to Robert J. Smith of Oakland, California. Though some equipment was salvaged from the wrecked ship, her hull was left to the mercy of the sea in the “graveyard of the Pacific.” The event came to be known as the Honda Point Disaster.\n"}
{"id": "2283767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283767", "title": "Gnaviyani Atoll", "text": "Gnaviyani Atoll\n\nGnaviyani Atoll (Pronounced: Nyaviyani) is one of the administrative divisions of the Maldives corresponding to the natural atoll, Fuvahmulah. Surfacewise this is the smallest administrative unit in the Maldives, situated in the Equatorial Channel (Addu - Mulah Kandu) between Huvadhu Atoll and Addu Atoll.\n\nThe atoll of Fuvahmulah corresponding to this administrative division is the 25th natural atoll of the Maldives. Some people due to lack of knowledge or as part of a prevailing misconception erroneously mention that Fuvahmulah is not an atoll. An island of coral that encircles a lagoon partially or completely is what we call an atoll. In the distant past Fuvahmulah was a small coral atoll whose southern end was open at a spot called Diyarehifaando and the inside of the island was a saltwater lagoon forming a natural harbour. There is a spot in the southern end known as a Kudhuheraivali (the forest of the small islet), which indicates that there was a separate little island in that area in ancient times. But long ago the channel connecting the lagoon with the ocean was closed by massive coral boulders. Thus the inside of the island is lower than its edges. In time the inner lagoon lost its saltiness and all that remains today are two small lakes(Kulhi), wetlands and marshy taro fields. Therefore, Fuvahmulah is a small Atoll that closed and filled in with silt, like Nukutavake in the Central Pacific.\n\nFuvahmulah was traditionally divided into nine wards. From North to South these wards were: (1) Dhadimago, (2) Diguvāndo (both stretching from East to West shore), (3) Hōdhado, (5) Dhashokubaa (both segmental) separated by, (4) Mādhado (A diagonal strip of parallel width); whilst the other four divisions, which occupied the Southern part of the island consisted of two Eastern and Western strips, bisected into four wards, (6) Mālegan and (8) Dūndigan lying to East, (7) Miskimmago and (9) Funādo to West. The largest division among all is Dhadimago. With time, some changes saw its way into existence. Nowadays, the number of wards has been reduced to eight, since the village of Dhashokubaa was merged with Miskimmago. Moreover, extension of some wards with time, brought its way into certain changes in area such as that of Hōdhado. The northerly extension of the ward by time led to the land from Eastern strip of Diguvāndo and some parts of that of Dhadimago being claimed to the village. It was mainly the land consisting of agricultural fields and plantations to vegetation owned by the villagers of Dhadimago and Diguvāndo.\n\nAdministratively these divisions act as the replacement for islands in other atolls. For each ward a chief ('Katheeb') was appointed as in charge of the day-to-day affairs of the respective ward and held accountable for an Island chief. With the introduction of local government policy in the Maldives, an Island Council is to be elected for each ward of the island according to the Decentralisation act 2010. Also, an Atoll Council is to be elected for the atoll as a whole.\n\nNOTE: \"Haa Alifu, Haa Dhaalu, Shaviyani, Noonu, Raa, Baa, Kaafu, etc.. (including Gnaviyani) are code letters assigned to the present administrative divisions of the Maldives. They are not the proper names of the natural atolls that make up these divisions. Some atolls are divided into two administrative divisions or contain half of an atoll (In case of Thiladhunmathi to Haa Alif, Haa Dhaal, Shaviyani and Noonu Atolls, Huvadhu Atoll to Gaafu Alifu and Gaafu Dhaalu Atolls and In case of half of Ari Atoll to Alifu Dhaalu Atoll), while other divisions are made up of two or more natural atolls (In case of Raa, Baa, Kaafu, Alifu Alifu and Vaavu Atolls). Some administrative divisions correspond to the same natural atoll too (In case of Lhaviyani, Meemu, Faafu, Dhaalu, Thaa, Laamu, Gnaviyani and Seenu Atolls). The order followed by the code letters are from North to South, beginning with the first letters of the Thaana alphabet used in Dhivehi. These code letters may not be accurate from the geographical and cultural point of view. However, they have become popular among tourists and foreigners in the Maldives who find them easier to pronounce than the true atoll names in Dhivehi, (save a few exceptions, like Ari Atoll).\"\n\nAware of the extent of this problem, Maldivian expert Mr. Ibrahim Luthfee wrote a book on Maldivian geography before he died. With this book, which is unfortunately available only in Dhivehi, the late Mr. Luthfee tried to clear a number of misconceptions that carelessly researched tourist publications have generalized even among Maldivians. Much of this article has been translated and adapted from his posthumous work.\n\n"}
{"id": "2283768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283768", "title": "Larry Hryb", "text": "Larry Hryb\n\nLawrence Hryb (), also known by his Xbox Live Gamertag \"Major Nelson\", is a Director of Programming for the Microsoft gaming network Xbox Live. His blog \"Xbox Live's Major Nelson\" provides an inside look at operations at Microsoft's Xbox division. He picked the Gamertag \"Major Nelson\" after a character by the same name on the 1960s U.S. television comedy \"I Dream of Jeannie\" after it was recommended to him by his TiVo. Larry dedicated his Gamertag to Larry Hagman after his death in 2012. Prior to joining Microsoft in 2001, he was a former programmer and on air host with radio broadcaster Clear Channel Communications. Hryb graduated from Syracuse University with a degree in Television, Radio and Film production from the S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications.\n\nLarry Hryb worked as the Director of Promotions for Clear Channel Communications in Hartford, Connecticut for WKSS from 1989 to late 2000. In early 2001, he began working with Microsoft; his first role at the company was as the editor in chief of MSN music. Hryb moved into Xbox division of Microsoft in 2003. Hryb was instrumental in the development of the Xbox One, Xbox 360, Xbox LIVE, Kinect and the 'New Xbox Experience'. \n\nHryb has advised dozens of gaming and non-gaming companies and communities on how to best engage with their audiences using digital tools and social networks. In 2012, he was named one of Mashable's '13 Bona Fide Geeks to Follow'. Hryb performs product reviews and mentions through his various social media outlets - Twitter, his podcast, Google Plus page, YouTube profile, and his personal blog - for lifestyle-related products and services.\n\nHryb is most known for his popular weekly podcast \"Major Nelson Radio\", available on iTunes, Xbox Music Marketplace, and from his site. He does interviews as well. Direct from inside the Microsoft Xbox team, Hryb and his colleagues including regular co-hosts Laura Massey (\"lollip0p\"), and Eric Neustadter (\"e\") discuss Xbox One, Xbox 360, Kinect, Zune, gaming, technology, other next generation consoles (including the PlayStation 4, and Wii U), among other subjects. His show regularly hosts interviews with people in the gaming community, and offers prizes to listeners through his \"Name the Game\" contest, where he plays a short audio clip from a game, and a winner is drawn from the correct entries. Additionally, regular features of the podcast include \"Xbox 101\", a segment devoted to various features on the Xbox One or Xbox Live, Gadget discussion where they discuss the latest and greatest gadget. Many companies have contacted Larry to review or cover their products to reach this audience, but Larry has declined stating that he only wants to talk about products he actually uses and are of high quality and value. Recently, as convergence takes place with the auto industry, they have also started looking at vehicles that use technology in a new and exciting ways.\n\nOriginally, Hryb produced the podcast by himself. The podcast used to consist of him giving a monologue and breaking to play prerecorded interviews. On November 6, 2006, he celebrated his '200th' podcast, which was marked with a nearly two and a half hour show. Hryb openly admits that he added to the show number and the figure doesn't accurately reflect the number of shows made. Hryb switched to a #1xx numbering around July 18, 2005, when he did show #136 after the previous '7/10/05 Blogcast'. Major Nelson was interviewed on the Video Game Outsiders Podcast (show #50), where he commented \"About a year and a half ago, I started numbering my shows at 100...it makes it sound cooler, bigger numbers are always better.\"\n\nHryb is married to Taylor Johnson, the author of 'The Happy Girl' blog and lives in the state of Washington. During Show 478 of the Major Nelson podcast he expressed interest in classical music, noting that he nearly minored in it during his college studies. In 2006, \"Next Generation Magazine\" named Hryb one of the \"Top 25 People of the Year\" in video gaming. Also, in 2009 he was featured on Wired.com's \"100 Geeks You Should Be Following On Twitter\". Hryb has worked with multiple Fortune 500 companies, advising them on how to use social media to better connect with the community. He revealed that his guilty pleasure is KFC mashed potatoes. Larry Hryb has admitted to having coulrophobia and claustrophobia after waking up from a dream involving the 2010 Copiapó mining accident.\n\n"}
{"id": "2283789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283789", "title": "Bill Macatee", "text": "Bill Macatee\n\nBill Macatee (born November 17, 1955) is an American sports broadcaster for CBS Sports and Tennis Channel.\n\nMacatee was born in Rome, New York, and grew up in El Paso, Texas. He graduated from Burges High School in El Paso. In 1978, he earned a Bachelor of Science degree from Lamar University in Beaumont, Texas. He is a member of Delta Tau Delta International Fraternity.\n\nWhile in college, Macatee worked at KLTV-TV in Tyler, Texas as well as KTVV-TV in Austin, Texas. He became Sports Director at KBMT-TV in Beaumont, Texas where he was hired by Bill Paradoski. Following that he worked at KMBC-TV in Kansas City before spending 3 years at WFAA-TV in Dallas, Texas. Macatee was hired by NBC Sports and moved to New York in 1982.\n\nIn 1982, Macatee began his network sports broadcasting career with NBC, and was the youngest network sportscaster in the industry. With NBC Sports, he covered a wide range of events including Wimbledon, the Super Bowl, the Rose Bowl and the World Series. He hosted NBC's \"Major League Baseball Game of the Week\" show for 4 years as well as numerous events for the network's sports anthology show, \"NBC Sportsworld\". Additionally, Macatee served as the sports correspondent for the \"Today Show\" and sports anchor for \"NBC News at Sunrise\" and \"Sunday Today\". He also co-anchored the syndicated show \"\".\n\nMacatee joined USA Network as a sportscaster in 1990. From 1991 until 2006, Macatee anchored coverage of the PGA Tour and hosted the network's Thursday/Friday coverage of The Masters from Butler Cabin as well as coverage of the Ryder Cup. His other duties included play-by-play for the U.S. Open Tennis Championships and the French Open at Roland Garros.\n\nMacatee served as an anchor during the 1998 Winter Olympics in Nagano, Japan for CBS and the 2006 Winter Games in Torino, Italy for USA Network.\n\nSince joining CBS Sports in 1995, Macatee has served as a tower announcer and handled post-round, network interviews for The Masters and PGA Championship. Macatee also substitutes for Jim Nantz during other PGA Tour events and has anchored CBS' coverage of the LPGA Championship and various Champions Tour events. In 2015, Macatee hosted the Golf Channel series, \"Greatest Rounds\".\n\nMacatee co-anchored weekend coverage of the 1998 Winter Games in Nagano, Japan for CBS Sports.\n\nIn tennis, Macatee was the main CBS play-by-play announcer for the U.S. Open Tennis Championship (taking over from Dick Enberg in 2012) and other ATP and WTA events.\n\nFrom 1998 through 2013, Macatee did play-by-play for the NFL on CBS. He also called NCAA Basketball for CBS Sports including the NCAA Tournament and the NCAA Men's Division II Basketball National Championship Game. Macatee has done network play-by-play in sports as diverse as figure skating, skiing, track-and-field, gymnastics, boxing and even sumo wrestling.\n\nAdditionally, Macatee has served as the main play-by-play voice and studio host for the cable network Tennis Channel, covering the Australian Open, The French Open (French Open Tonight), Wimbledon (Wimbledon Primetime) and the U.S. Open.\n\nIn 2013, Macatee joined The Vistria Group, a Chicago private equity firm, serving as a Senior Advisor to the firm. Macatee serves on numerous company boards, as well as the Advisory Board of the United States Tennis Association (USTA) Foundation.\n\nMacatee spent 2 years as an Adjunct Professor at Chapman University in Southern California, teaching Sports Media at the prestigious Dodge College of Film and Media Arts. Macatee serves as a Trustee at Lamar University. He was named Distinguished Alumnus at Lamar University in 2010 and gave the Commencement Address for the university's graduating class in May 2014.\n\nIn 2018, Macatee was inducted into the Texas Golf Hall of Fame receiving the Lifetime Achievement Award.\nOn May 10, 2014, Macatee married Sonya Lee. They reside in Dallas, Texas.\n\nHe is also father to Caitlin Macatee, an up-and-coming comedian and author.\n"}
{"id": "2283797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283797", "title": "Detective Chimp", "text": "Detective Chimp\n\nDetective Chimp is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. A common chimpanzee who wears a deerstalker hat (à la Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's fictional sleuth Sherlock Holmes), Detective Chimp has human-level intelligence and solves crimes, often with the help of the Bureau of Amplified Animals, a group of intelligent animals that also includes Rex the Wonder Dog. He was originally created in the final years of the Golden Age of Comic Books, during the interregnum between the former and the Silver Age of Comic Books.\n\nAfter his initial appearance in \"Adventures of Rex the Wonder Dog\" he continued to appear in that title as a backup feature until 1959, at which point he faded into obscurity. Several decades after his last appearance, Detective Chimp appeared in several cameos, namely in a 1981 story, \"Whatever Happened to Rex the Wonder Dog?\" (\"DC Comics Presents\" #35) and later in a brief cameo with Sam Simeon in Gorilla City during 1985's \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\". Following these appearances, Bobo started appearing in DC titles with some regularity, appearing in issues of \"Green Lantern\", \"The Flash\", and other titles. This eventually led to prominent roles in the 2005 \"Day of Vengeance\" miniseries and subsequently as a regular in its spin-off series \"Shadowpact\". The character has gone on to guest-star in other DC Comics titles.\n\nWhen first introduced, Detective Chimp was a simple, although intelligent, trained chimpanzee, who acted as a \"helping mascot\" for the local sheriff, after helping him to solve the murder of his chimpanzee trainer, Fred Thorpe. He could not speak, but could understand humans and make himself understood. Bobo, a smoker, is a member of Mensa, and had a long-standing partnership with four other detectives as the Croatoan Society. One of the other former members of the Society was the detective/superhero Ralph Dibny.\n\nThe Chimp's origin has been revamped and elaborated on several times since his initial Silver Age appearances. 1989's \"Secret Origins\" (vol. 2) #40 credited the experimentation of a microscopic alien race with Bobo's intelligence. This origin has since been retconned, notably in the \"Day of Vengeance\" six-part limited series. In the latter it was shown that Bobo was captured in Equatorial Africa in 1953 by Fred Thorpe, who sought to train him for his carnival act: \"Bobo the Detective Chimp\". For the act, Detective Chimp was trained to answer some detective-related questions using a combination of signals and rewards, giving the illusion that he could \"discover the deepest secrets of the public\". Bobo formed a strong bond with Thorpe because Thorpe took care of him, and gave him a simpler life than in the jungle. The success of the act lasted until a trip to Florida, at which time Rex the Wonder Dog, took him to the Fountain of Youth, where he gained the ability to speak to all living creatures, even humans, in their own language, as well as eternal youth. Rex's and Bobo's journey to the Fountain of Youth was originally depicted in the aforementioned \"DC Comics Presents\" #35, July 1981. The intelligence Bobo gained put a damper on the success of the sideshow act, and in at least one instance, he decided that a woman had in fact murdered her sister, and shared his insights with the local police.\n\nAt some point after this, Bobo was employed by the Bureau of Amplified Animals. It is not known how he left, or even if the Bureau still exists.\n\nAfter the death of Fred Thorpe, he began to work by himself. Initially he did quite well, as a chimp detective was seen as a novelty. During this successful period he was visited by another detective, John Jones (actually the Martian Manhunter, during the \"JLApe\" crisis), who thought Bobo's agency seemed to be doing better than his own.\n\nHowever, as an ape, without civil rights and being unable to stand as a juridical person, he could not enforce unpaid bills. When the public began to forget him, he became an alcoholic, never leaving the other-dimensional Oblivion Bar (which changed management twice during his time there), until the establishment was acquired by Jim Rook.\n\n\"Bobo\" is not his real name, which he declines to share. It is revealed by the Phantom Stranger to be \"mostly an unpronounceable screech and three grunts\", which translates as \"Magnificent Finder of Tasty Grubs\".\n\nWhen the Spectre attempts to destroy all magic and began killing wizards, Detective Chimp, while still mostly drunk, coerces a group of mystical characters gathered from the Oblivion Bar into battling the Spectre. This leads to the formation of the group the Shadowpact.\n\nAlthough lacking superhuman powers, Detective Chimp exhibits not only fine detective skills but also the genius of a true tactician. Benefiting from the counsel of the Phantom Stranger (at the time transformed into a mouse), he devises a plan to use the powers of Black Alice and Nightshade to confront the combined menace of Eclipso and the Spectre.\n\nBobo also helps clean up the demonic damage left from the Rock of Eternity's explosion over Gotham City. He captures the sin of \"Sloth\", which had possessed his long-time friend Rex the Wonder Dog. After the Rock is reformed, the sins re-imprisoned, and all magical influence cleaned out of Gotham, the dying Doctor Fate gives Detective Chimp the powerful Helmet of Fate. After finding it does not fit him, Detective Chimp convinces Captain Marvel to throw it to Earth, to let fate choose its next bearer.\n\nWhen the helmet of Doctor Fate returns to Earth, Detective Chimp for a brief time bonds with it, granting him additional powers that he uses to assist the Gotham City police in apprehending the villain Trickster. After struggling against the temptation of the helmet, Bobo sends it on to another journey.\n\nRecently, it has been shown that Bobo occasionally assists Batman in his cases by way of a chat room where they swap theories. The Riddler is also known to chat with them, but he is unaware of the other two's identities.\n\nIn DC's 2011 reboot of its continuity, Detective Chimp has been mentioned by Ambush Bug in the Channel 52 feature sections. He later appears as a brief cameo in aiding the Justice League United team rescue Adam Strange from the Zeta Beam and in the 2016 \"DC Comics Rebirth Christmas Special\" story \"The Night We Saved Christmas\".\n\nIn \"DC Rebirth\", Detective Chimp, a.k.a. Bobo, has appeared in the \"\" event, he is one of the survivors of the invasion of the Dark Nights (alternate versions of Batman from a Dark Multiverse), he is seen at the Oblivion Bar alongside the Justice League, Kendra Saunders, Doctor Fate and others. Bobo's close friend Nightmaster, the owner of the Oblivion Bar, is killed in this confrontation. Bobo later takes over the bar and Nightmaster's mystical duties. \n\nDetective Chimp possesses no unusual physical abilities, save the level of agility and physical strength that comes with being a chimpanzee with human knowledge of movement and tools. He is capable of conversing with all animals, regardless of origin, in their own language, including all spoken and written human languages. He is also one of the most highly skilled investigators in the world, with detective skills rivaling those of Ralph Dibny or Batman. Bobo has an Intelligence Quotient estimated to be higher than 98 percent of the adult (human) population, as evidenced by his Mensa membership. For a brief time, Detective Chimp also had additional sense-expanding powers granted him by the helmet of Doctor Fate.\n\nBecause a chimpanzee's muscles are much denser than a human's, Detective Chimp is unable to swim. Recent scientific evidence suggests that chimpanzees can swim, and this represents a continuity error (or Detective Chimp simply never learned to swim).\n\nIn \"Tangent: Superman's Reign\", the Earth-9 version of Detective Chimp is revealed to be the screen name of a human hacker named Guy Gardner.\n\nIn \"DC One Million\", the far future version of Detective Chimp is one of the heroes of the Gorilla Galaxy, and wears a costume similar to Batman's. In 2018's \"Dark Nights: Metal\" story arc, an identical character also appears with the same name and background, although now located on the DC Multiverse alternate Earth known as Earth 52 \n\nDetective Chimp plays a key role in the opening issues of Year Three. John Constantine tracks down 'the world's greatest detective' - normally the moniker applied to Batman - to assist in defeating a fascistic Superman. At first, Chimp drunkenly curses Constantine, but then agrees to join him as he and Batman appear in the back of Chas Chandler's cab, where he and John mock the brooding detectives. Constantine then leads him and Batman to a church where he has magically sealed Raven, much to Chimp's surprise. Chimp then asks John why he is involved in this war between Batman and Superman, but Constantine explains how the conflict with the Green Lantern Corps killed his daughter Rose's mother and he wants revenge on Superman. Batman then gathers his allies, including Chimp, at Jason Blood's home, where Batman and Constantine try to explain their plan. Detective Harvey Bullock, though, announces that he plans on leaving, feeling that he is out of his element in this world of superheroes, but Chimp stops him and reveals that he knows his reputation as a detective and his work with Commissioner Gordon in the past on several cases. Chimp then admits he feels outside his own comfort zone but he is still here for the same reason that Gordon is and asks him to stay. Before Bullock can answer, Klarion the Witch Boy's cat, Teekl, senses something coming as Jason realizes his home's protective seal was broken when Bullock opened the door. Before Bullock can close the door, the Spectre vaporizes both Bullock and Blood, with Chimp getting caught in the blast. Alfred Pennyworth, though, manages to save Chimp as he, Zatanna, and Harley Quinn, manage to keep him alive, where Alfred carries his body while Zatanna teleports the others to the Tower of Fate. Chimp then awakens and grasps Harley's hand as she, Alfred, and Zatanna try to keep him alive, where it is revealed that Chimp is missing an eye. Doctor Fate then appears to take Constantine's daughter, Rose, away. Harley, though, demands Fate to help him save Chimp, but Fate says he cannot help him. Harley Quinn and Klarion the Witch Boy save Chimp's life, but Chimp loses the use of one eye and has to wear an eye patch. When Sinestro later kills Klarion, Chimp tells the assembled group that, without Klarion, he will cease to exist and fades away in front of Harley and the other rebels.\n\n\n\n\nDetective Chimp was the 69th issue in the DC Comics Super Hero Collection.\n\nDetective Chimp appears in \"Justice League Unlimited\" #39, working alongside fellow detectives Batman and Elongated Man. In the DC Animated Universe continuity, Detective Chimp is portrayed as a citizen of Gorilla City, but does not actually appear until the end of the story, as he had been impersonated by Gorilla Grodd for much of the issue.\n\n"}
{"id": "2283805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283805", "title": "Brian C. Rosenberg", "text": "Brian C. Rosenberg\n\nBrian Clifford Rosenberg, a scholar on Charles Dickens, has written numerous articles on the Victorian author and other subjects as well as two books, \"Mary Lee Settle's Beulah Quintet: The Price of Freedom\" (1991) and \"Little Dorrit's Shadows: Character and Contradiction in Dickens\" (1996). He served on the board of trustees of the Dickens Society from 2000 to 2004. In 2014, the Teagle Foundation announced his appointment to their Board of Directors.\n\nA native of New York City, Rosenberg received his B.A. degree from Cornell University and his M.A. and Ph.D. in English from Columbia University.\n\nRosenberg began his academic career as an adjunct assistant professor of humanities at The Cooper Union in New York City in 1982. He worked at Allegheny College in Meadville, Pennsylvania, from 1983 to 1998 as an English professor and as chair of the English Department and participated in the development of the college's strategic plan. From 1998 to 2003, Rosenberg was dean of the faculty and an English professor at Lawrence University in Appleton, Wisconsin. While in this position, he was responsible for all academic programs, athletics, the library, instructional technology and the Lawrence University art gallery. He directed the design and passage of the university's first new general education requirements in 15 years, created the college's first mentoring program for new faculty and wrote the long-range faculty staffing plan.\n\nRosenberg became the 16th president of Macalester College in August 2003. During his 17-year tenure, he was generally well-liked by students and faculty, although he faced some criticism from the student body and alumni for his salary, which ranked within the top ten highest in America for a college president. He led a number of fundraising campaigns for the college, such as the Macalester Moment campaign, and oversaw the construction and renovation of several buildings on campus, including the Leonard Center Athletics and Wellness Complex, Markim Hall, and the Janet Wallace Fine Arts Center. He remained politically outspoken during this time, writing articles on the politics involved in higher education and responding freely to current events in newsletters and statements to the student body.\n\nIn 2019, Rosenberg announced that he planned to retire from the position of President at the end of the academic year in 2020; he was succeeded in the position by Dr. Suzanne Rivera. In fall of 2020, he will begin working as president-in-residence at the Harvard Graduate School of Education.\n\nRosenberg has been cited as physically attractive by many sources. He was chosen as People's Sexiest College President in 2010 and again in 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "2283810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283810", "title": "Garage kit", "text": "Garage kit\n\nA garage kit (ガレージキット) or resin kit is an assembly scale model kit most commonly cast in polyurethane resin.\n\nThey are often model figures portraying humans or other living creatures. In Japan, kits often depict anime characters, and in the United States depictions of movie monsters are common. However, kits are produced depicting a wide range of subjects, from characters from horror, science fiction, fantasy films, television and comic books to nudes and pin-up girls to dinosaurs to original works of art, as well as upgrade and conversion kits for existing models and airsoft guns.\n\nOriginally garage kits were amateur-produced, and the term originated with dedicated hobbyists using their garages as workshops. Unable to find model kits of subjects they wanted on the market, they began producing kits of their own. As the market expanded professional companies began making similar kits. Sometimes a distinction is made between true \"garage\" kits, made by amateurs, and \"resin\" kits, manufactured professionally by companies.\n\nBecause of the labor-intensive casting process, garage kits are usually produced in limited numbers and are more expensive than injection-molded plastic kits. The parts are glued together using cyanoacrylate (Super Glue) or an epoxy cement and the completed figure is painted. Some figures are sold completed, but most commonly they are sold in parts for the buyer to assemble and finish.\n\nThe legality of amateur garage kits can be questionable as they are not always properly licensed and sometimes recast copies of kits are sold without permission.\n\nJapanese garage kits are often female anime figures, sometimes in lurid or even pornographic poses. Another major subject is \"Kaiju\" monsters such as Godzilla, and they also include subjects like mecha and science fiction space ships. Garage kits can be as simple as a one piece figure, or as complex as kits with well over one hundred parts. Most commonly they are cast in polyurethane resin, but may also be fabricated of such diverse substances as soft vinyl, white metal (a type of lead alloy) and fabric.\n\nOriginally the kits were sold and traded between hobbyists at conventions like Wonder Festival. As the market grew a number of companies began producing resin kits professionally, such as Federation Models, Volks, WAVE/Be-J, Kaiyodo, Kotobukiya and B-Club, a subsidiary of Bandai producing Gundam kits (Gunpla).\n\nThe scale of figure kits varies, but as of 2008 1/8 seems to be predominant. Prior to 1990 the dominant scale was 1/6. This scale shrink coincided with the rise in material, labor, and licensing costs. Other scales, such as 1/3, 1/4, 1/6, 1/7 also exist, but are less common. Larger kits (1/3, 1/4, etc.) generally command higher prices due to the greater amounts of material required to produce them.\n\nJapanese garage kits are usually cast as separate parts which are packed with instructions and sometimes photographs of the final product. Most professionally manufactured kits come in a box while amateur-produced kits sold at conventions come in plastic bags, blank boxes or even boxes with copied sheet information glued onto them. They are not painted, but some of them do have decals provided by the sculptor or circle. The builder has to paint and assemble the model, preferably with an airbrush. However, they can also be painted with a regular brush using a variety of techniques to achieve similar effects as when painting with a conventional airbrush.\n\nIn the 1950s and 60s Aurora and other companies produced cheap plastic models of movie monsters, comic book heroes, and movie and television characters. This market disappeared, but through the 1980s an underground market grew through which enthusiasts could acquire the old plastic model kits.\n\nIn the early to mid-1980s, hobbyists began creating their own garage kits of movie monsters. There was a small but enthusiastic market for these new model kits. They were poured into flexible molds which could produce rigid reproductions of new figures which were sculpted more accurately and with more detail than the old plastic model kits. They were usually produced in limited numbers and sold primarily by mail order and at toy and hobby conventions.\n\nIn the mid- to late 1980s the monster model kit hobby grew toward the mainstream. By the 1990s model kits were produced in the US and the UK, as well as in Japan, and distributed through hobby and comic stores. There was an unprecedented variety of licensed model figure kits.\n\nIn the late 1990s model kit sales went down. Hobby and comic stores and their distributors began carrying fewer garage kits or closed down and producers shut their doors.\n\nAs of 2009, there are two American garage kit magazines, \"Kitbuilders Magazine\" and \"Amazing Figure Modeler\", and there are garage kit conventions held each year, like WonderFest USA in Louisville, Kentucky.\n\nGarage kits are generally produced in small quantities, from the tens to a few hundred copies, compared to injection-molded plastic kits which are produced in many thousands. This is due to the labor-intensive nature of the manufacturing process and the relatively low market demand.\n\nResin casting garage kit production is the most labor-intensive. The upside is that creating the initial mold is much less costly than in the injection-molding process.\n\nVinyl garage kits are produced by using liquid vinyl Plastisol in a spin casting process known as slush molding. It is more complex than resin casting, but less expensive and less sophisticated than the injection molding used for most plastic products. It is not something that is commonly done in a basement or garage.\n\nThe legality of amateur garage kits can be questionable as they are not always properly licensed. The model might be of a copyrighted character or design that was produced by fans because no official model exists.\n\nThe relatively low initial investment and ease of resin casting means that it's also easy to create recast copies of existing original kits. Recasts are produced by making molds of parts from original model kits and then doing recasts from the new molds. This can be done for personal use, such as modification of an existing kit, but unlicensed recast copies are sometimes sold unlawfully. In some cases the original kit is no longer available, but in others they are still in active production. The recasts can be of officially licensed model kits, but when they are of unlicensed kits the sculptor usually has a hard time pursuing litigation. The recasts are usually of inferior quality when produced in Thailand, however, other recasters in Hong Kong rival originals in quality and casting and offer at a price that undercuts the original. Recast kits can be found on online auction sites, where they can be difficult to control due to cumbersome site policies and seller pseudonymity. Many recasters are in East Asia but can be found all over the globe.\n\nIn an effort to legitimize amateur garage kit production and sales in Japan, it is not uncommon for license holder to issue 'single day license' () where for one day only, license is granted for sale of amateur garage kits. These licensing agreement are typically negotiated between an event organizer (Wonder Festival, Character Hobby, Figure Mania, etc.) and varies licensing entities for license to characters from specific TV shows and movies. Typically the event organizer publishes in advance, a list of licenses available, and sculptors intending to sell their sculptures then submit applications (including photos of sculpture) for approval. It is not uncommon for applications to be rejected.\n\n"}
{"id": "2283811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283811", "title": "Splash Damage", "text": "Splash Damage\n\nSplash Damage Ltd. is a British video game developer that specializes in multiplayer first-person shooter video games. The studio is best known as the creator of the \"\" and \"\".\n\nSplash Damage was formed in May or June 2001 by the creators of mods such as \"Quake 3 Fortress\". The studio began life working with Now TV and Gamer.tv, providing both custom maps and an in-game television production solution. Splash Damage staff also worked to produce and present over 150 TV shows based on Quake III Arena Capture the Flag.\n\nIn March 2002, Splash Damage partnered with Games Domain to produce a number of multiplayer maps for their online gaming service. One of these was a map for id Software's \"Return to Castle Wolfenstein\" based on Operation Market Garden; this map was hugely successful online and instantly became the most played third-party map for the game.\n\nFollowing Market Garden's success, Activision and id Software asked Splash Damage to produce three additional multiplayer maps for the \"Return to Castle Wolfenstein Game of the Year Edition\". The same year, Splash Damage partnered with the two companies to develop \"\", a stand-alone expansion based on \"Return to Castle Wolfenstein\". The Windows version of \"Wolfenstein: Enemy Territory\" was released online for free on 29 May 2003, with Linux and Mac versions following later. \"Wolfenstein: Enemy Territory\" won several Game of the Year and Editor's Choice awards and remained one of the most popular online first-person shooter titles even in 2008.\n\nIn June 2003 and once again working with id Software, Splash Damage created all the maps for \"Doom 3\"'s multiplayer mode and at the same time began pre-production on \"\", a follow-up to \"Wolfenstein: Enemy Territory\" using a heavily modified version of the id Tech 4 engine and set in the \"Quake\" universe. \"Enemy Territory: Quake Wars\" shipped on 28 September 2007, and has won dozens of awards to date, including several Game of the Year awards and over 25 Editor's Choice awards.\n\nIn August 2016 Leyou entered into a Sale and Purchase Agreement with Splash Damage with the Intention to Buy.\nThe company was purchased by Radius Maxima a Leyou subsidiary.\n\nThe full list of awards can be found on their web site.\n\n"}
{"id": "2283822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283822", "title": "Adult Contemporary (chart)", "text": "Adult Contemporary (chart)\n\nThe Adult Contemporary chart is published weekly by \"Billboard\" magazine and lists the most popular songs on adult contemporary radio stations in the United States. The chart is compiled based on airplay data submitted to \"Billboard\" by stations that are members of the Adult Contemporary radio panel. The chart debuted in \"Billboard\" magazine on July 17, 1961. Over the years, the chart has gone under a series of name changes, being called Easy Listening , Middle-Road Singles , Pop-Standard Singles , Hot Adult Contemporary Tracks and Adult Contemporary .\n\nThe \"Billboard\" Easy Listening chart, as it was first known, was born of a desire by some radio stations in the late 1950s and early 1960s to continue playing current hit songs but distinguish themselves from being branded as \"rock and roll\" stations. \"Billboard\" had written articles about this trend during the time, and the magazine's editors decided to publish a separate chart for these songs beginning in 1961. The magazine offered an \"Easy Listening\" programming guide beginning January 9, 1961, which continued until the numbered chart appeared in July. The first No. 1 song on the \"Billboard\" Easy Listening chart was \"The Boll Weevil Song\" by Brook Benton.\n\nFrom 1961 to 1965, this chart was compiled from the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart by removing songs that were deemed rock and roll by the magazine and re-ranking the remaining songs. (\"Record World's\" equivalent \"non-rock\" chart followed the same criteria from 1967 through 1971.) Beginning in 1965, the Easy Listening chart would begin to be compiled by a method similar to the one used for other \"Billboard\" singles charts: reported playlists from radio stations airing the format as well as sales data submitted by record stores. By the early 1990s, automatic song detection and barcode sales information had begun to be the norm for most of the \"Billboard\" charts, although by this time the AC chart was based entirely on radio airplay and no longer incorporated retail sales reports. Currently the Hot Adult Contemporary Tracks chart is compiled in much the same way as for other radio formats.\n\nThe chart was known as the Easy Listening chart until 1962, when it was renamed Middle-Road Singles. In 1964, the name changed again, this time to Pop-Standard Singles. After alternating the name of this chart twice more in less than a year, Easy Listening was again chosen as the chart name in 1965 when the change in compilation occurred. In April 1979, the Easy Listening chart officially became known as Adult Contemporary, and those two words have remained consistent in the name of the chart ever since.\n\nIn 1996, \"Billboard\" created a new chart called Adult Top 40, which reflects radio station programming that exists somewhere between \"adult contemporary\" music and \"pop\" music. Although they are sometimes mistaken for each other, the Adult Contemporary chart and the Adult Top 40 chart are separate charts, and songs reaching one chart might not reach the other. In addition, the term \"hot AC\" refers to another subgenre of radio programming that is distinct from the Adult Contemporary chart, despite the apparent similarity in name.\n\nIn the early years of the Easy Listening chart, the top song on the chart was generally always a Top 10 pop hit as well. The method for compiling the chart at that time allowed some rock and roll artists, such as Lesley Gore and The Drifters, to make the chart on occasion with their softer or ballad releases, regardless of whether Easy Listening and middle of the road radio stations were actually playing those songs. In 1965, no #1 pop hits appeared on the Easy Listening chart. After 1965, differences between the Hot 100 chart and the Easy Listening chart became more pronounced. Better reflecting what middle of the road stations were actually playing, the composition of the chart changed dramatically. As rock music continued to harden, there was much less crossover between the Hot 100 and Easy Listening chart than there had been in the early half of the 1960s. \n\nSeveral #1 Easy Listening hits of the late 1960s only \"Bubbled Under\" on the pop chart (for example, Andy Russell's 1967 version of \"It's Such a Pretty World Today\" that peaked at #119), or (as was the case with John Gary's 1967 hit \"Cold\") failed even to \"Bubble Under.\" In 1967, only one single reached No. 1 on both charts \"Somethin' Stupid\" by Frank Sinatra and Nancy Sinatra. This trend began to reverse by the end of the decade.\n\nNotable artists with multiple #1 songs on this chart during the 1960s include Elvis Presley, Roy Orbison, Connie Francis, Dean Martin, Andy Williams, The 5th Dimension, and Glen Campbell. \"Love Is Blue\" by Paul Mauriat held the top of the Easy Listening chart for 11 weeks in 1968, which remained the longest stay at #1 until 1993.\n\nThe Hot 100 and Easy Listening charts became more similar again toward the end of the 1960s and into the early and mid-1970s, when the texture of much of the music played on Top 40 radio once more began to soften. Contemporary artists who recorded adult-appeal music, such as The Carpenters, Barbra Streisand, Barry Manilow, Anne Murray, John Denver, and Helen Reddy began to be played more often on Top 40 radio. Much of the music recorded by singer-songwriters such as James Taylor, Carole King, and Janis Ian got as much, if not more, airplay on this format than on Top 40 stations. A few of the acts that came of age as pop artists targeting younger audiences in the 1960s and early 1970s started moving toward easy listening as they matured (Neil Sedaka, Paul Anka and The Osmonds being prime examples). Easy Listening radio also began including songs by artists who had begun in other genres, such as rock and roll, R&B, or even country (it was during this time frame that a number of songs charted on the country and easy listening charts, often not on the Hot 100).\n\nThe longest stay at #1 on the Easy Listening chart in the 1970s was \"Time Passages\" by Al Stewart, which remained atop the chart for ten weeks. More common, however, was a high turnover rate at the summit of the Easy Listening survey during this decade. Over a three-year period from 1973 through 1975, there were 100 #1 songs on this chart, and most remained atop the chart for a single week. Among songs which topped both the Easy Listening (renamed Adult Contemporary in 1979) and pop charts in the 1970s were \"(They Long to Be) Close to You\" and \"Please Mr. Postman\" by The Carpenters, \"Song Sung Blue\" by Neil Diamond, \"Annie's Song\" by John Denver, \"You Are the Sunshine of My Life\" by Stevie Wonder, \"I Honestly Love You\" and \"Have You Never Been Mellow\" by Olivia Newton-John, \"Love Will Keep Us Together\" by Captain & Tennille, and \"You Light Up My Life\" by Debby Boone.\n\nOn August 21, 1982, the Adult Contemporary chart began ranking only airplay.\n\nSome of the artists who achieved success on the adult contemporary chart in the 1980s were already established names, such as Elton John, Chicago, Barbra Streisand, Dan Fogelberg, Sheena Easton, Kenny Rogers, and Dionne Warwick, while newer acts such as Whitney Houston, Madonna, Air Supply, Lionel Richie, and Gloria Estefan also made an impact on the chart. The amount of crossover between the AC chart and the Hot 100 has varied based on how much the passing pop music trends of the times appealed to adult listeners. Not many disco or new wave songs were particularly successful on the AC chart during the late 1970s and early 1980s, and much of the hip-hop and harder rock music featured on CHR formats later in the decade would have been unacceptable on AC radio.\n\nNo song spent more than six weeks at #1 on this chart during the 1980s, with nine songs accomplishing that feat. Two were by Lionel Richie, \"You Are\" in 1983 and \"Hello\" in 1984, which also reached No. 1 on the Hot 100. Other songs reaching the summit on both the AC and pop charts were \"Time After Time\" by Cyndi Lauper, \"I Just Called to Say I Love You\" by Stevie Wonder, \"Live to Tell\" by Madonna, \"I Just Can't Stop Loving You\" by Michael Jackson (his only #1 on both charts), \"Seasons Change\" by Exposé, \"Look Away\" by Chicago, \"Tell Her About It\" by Billy Joel, and \"Right Here Waiting\" by Richard Marx.\n\nWith the above-mentioned changes in compilation to the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart in the early 1990s, many of the secondary charts began to experience differences as well. Certain songs achieved higher debut positions on the Hot 100 due to the new formulas used to calculate chart positions, and lengthy stays at #1 became more common. This trend began to surface on the AC chart in 1993, when two consecutive singles (\"The River of Dreams\" by Billy Joel and \"Said I Loved You...But I Lied\" by Michael Bolton) logged twelve weeks apiece atop the AC chart, surpassing \"Love Is Blue\"'s previous mark of eleven weeks at #1. As the decade progressed, other songs had extended stays at #1, including \"Change the World\" by Eric Clapton (13 weeks, 1996), \"Un-Break My Heart\" by Toni Braxton (14 weeks, 1997) and \"Because You Loved Me\" by Celine Dion (19 weeks, 1996).\n\nIn addition to Dion, who has had significant success on this chart, other artists with multiple #1s on the AC chart in the 1990s include Mariah Carey, Phil Collins, Michael Bolton, Whitney Houston, and Shania Twain. Newer female singer-songwriters such as Sarah McLachlan, Natalie Merchant, Jewel, Melissa Etheridge, and Sheryl Crow also broke through on the AC chart during this time.\n\nA notable pattern that developed during the 2000s has been for certain pop songs to have lengthy runs on the Hot Adult Contemporary Tracks chart, even after the songs have fallen off the Hot 100. Songs such as \"Love Story\" and \"You Belong with Me\" by Taylor Swift, \"Waiting on the World to Change\" by John Mayer, \"Love Song\" by Sara Bareilles and \"You're Beautiful\" by James Blunt have remained on the AC chart for many weeks, in some cases over a year after the song was originally released. An article on MTV's website by Corey Moss describes this trend: \"In other words, AC stations are where pop songs go to die a very long death. Or, to optimists, to get a second life.\" One theory states that many adult contemporary stations play less newer music because they also give ample airtime to hits of the past, so the de-emphasis on new songs slows the progression of the AC chart. Also, certain program directors have asserted that AC is a song-based format, as opposed to other radio formats that are infused with singer-based programming, so there is no guarantee that a new single by a certain artist will appeal to the listeners.\n\nThe record for most weeks atop the Adult Contemporary chart is 36 achieved by Maroon 5 featuring Cardi B in their 2018 collaboration, \"Girls Like You\". A number of other songs have logged more than 20 weeks apiece at the summit; The 2003, Uncle Kracker's collaboration with Dobie Gray on Gray's own 1973 hit, Drift Away spent 28 weeks at #1. Ed Sheeran's \"Shape of You\" from 2017 has logged 24 weeks at #1 on the AC chart. In addition, Celine Dion's \"A New Day Has Come\" from 2002 and Kelly Clarkson's 2005 song \"Breakaway\". Both songs spent 21 weeks at #1 on the AC chart. In addition to Clarkson, other \"American Idol\" performers who have seen success on this chart include David Cook and Chris Daughtry. \n\nThrough 2006, Celine Dion has logged 87 weeks atop the AC chart, which is the most for any artist; tied for second place with 47 weeks apiece are Elton John and Lionel Richie. Elton John and the Carpenters are tied for the most chart-toppers on this survey with 15 apiece.\n\nIn 2011, Billboard announced the top 100 performing songs on the AC chart and the top 50 performing artists to celebrate the 50th anniversary on the chart. The top song on the list was \"Truly Madly Deeply\" by Savage Garden, which hit number one for 11 weeks in 1998, spent a total of 58 weeks in the top 10, and spent 123 weeks on the chart. That chart longevity would only be passed by another one of their songs, \"I Knew I Loved You\" (which ranked at #21 on that list), from their album \"Affirmation\". Elton John was nominated the top performing AC artist through that time, and also holds the record for the most No. 1 AC singles, top 10 singles, and singles on the chart. His song \"The One\" was ranked on #53 on the top 100 performing songs on the AC chart.\n\nRelatively few urban contemporary and hip-hop artists manage to successfully cross over to AC, although there were a few exceptions in the later part of the 2000s decade, such as Beyoncé's \"Irreplaceable\", Fergie's ballad \"Big Girls Don't Cry\", Gnarls Barkley's \"Crazy\", Rihanna's \"Take a Bow\", and Timbaland's remix of OneRepublic's \"Apologize\". R&B artists who have achieved major success on the AC chart in the past include Dionne Warwick, Aaron Neville, Diana Ross (with her solo career), James Ingram, Lionel Richie, Whitney Houston and Mariah Carey.\n\nCrossover from the country charts has also been common on the AC chart since the chart began. Among the country stars who had a number of singles cross over to the AC chart (and the pop chart as well) from the 1960s through the 1980s included Brenda Lee, Ray Price, Patsy Cline, Johnny Cash, Anne Murray, Ronnie Milsap, Barbara Mandrell, Dolly Parton, Kenny Rogers, Eddie Rabbitt, Crystal Gayle, Willie Nelson, and Juice Newton. The huge growth of country music as a radio format in the 1990s brought a number of new country crossovers onto the AC airwaves, including Martina McBride, Wynonna Judd, LeAnn Rimes, Shania Twain, Faith Hill, Lonestar, Mary Chapin Carpenter, and Garth Brooks. More recently, a new wave of country performers has been crossing over to AC, including Tim McGraw, the Dixie Chicks (who topped the AC chart with their cover of Fleetwood Mac's \"Landslide\"), Rascal Flatts, Carrie Underwood, Taylor Swift, Sugarland, Lady Antebellum, Jason Aldean (whose AC success came by way of his duet with Kelly Clarkson, \"Don't You Wanna Stay\"), The Band Perry, Sam Hunt, and Dan + Shay.\n\nContemporary Christian music has also been relatively successful in crossing over to mainstream radio. In the mid-1980s, the most successful CCM artist at the time, Amy Grant, crossed over into secular music with the 1985 single \"Find a Way\", which became a Top Ten AC hit and a #1 Christian single simultaneously. In the 1990s and into the 2000s, other artists such as Lifehouse, MercyMe, Natalie Grant, Kathy Troccoli, Sixpence None the Richer, Steven Curtis Chapman, and Michael W. Smith have crossed in between the Christian and secular worlds with little disapproval from their fan bases.\n\nHot Adult Contemporary Recurrents ranks airplay from the Hot Adult Contemporary Tracks chart that have reached \"Billboard\" recurrent criteria. Descending songs are moved to recurrent status based upon the following three-tiered system: if they rank below the top five after 52 weeks, if they rank below the top 10 after 26 weeks, or if they rank below the top 15 after 20 weeks.\n\nExceptions are sometimes made, usually on a case-by-case basis. Occasionally an older song is re-released (for example, featured on a current movie soundtrack and given a renewed promotional push from a record label) or a song can take an extended amount of time to climb to position fifteen. \"Billboard\" chart managers ultimately make the decision about which songs can remain on the current chart in such cases.\n\nSource:\n\nSource:\n\nThese are the songs with 20 or more weeks at number one.\n\n"}
{"id": "2283823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283823", "title": "International House (1933 film)", "text": "International House (1933 film)\n\nInternational House is a 1933 American pre-Code comedy film starring Peggy Hopkins Joyce and W. C. Fields, directed by A. Edward Sutherland and released by Paramount Pictures. The tagline of the film was \"The \"Grand Hotel\" of comedy\". It is a mixture of comedy and musical acts tied together by a slim plot line, in the style of the \"Big Broadcast\" pictures that were also released by Paramount during the 1930s. In addition to some typical comedic lunacy from W. C. Fields and Burns and Allen, it provides a snapshot of some popular stage and radio acts of the era. The film includes some risqué pre-Code humor.\n\nAt International House, a large hotel in metropolitan Wuhu, China Chinese inventor Dr. Wong (Edmund Breese) is soliciting bids for the rights to his \"radioscope\", a kind of television. Unlike real television, his contraption does not need a camera; it can look in on events anywhere in the world as if it were a ground-penetrating electronic telescope, complete with audio.\n\nProf. Henry R. Quail (W. C. Fields) is one of many people from around the world converging on the hotel, though he is one of the few not hoping to buy (or steal) Dr. Wong's invention, as he was intending to land in Kansas City in his autogyro but flew off course. Also converging on the hotel are four-times-divorced American celebrity Peggy Hopkins Joyce (playing herself) avoiding one of her ex-husbands, violently jealous Russian General Petronovich (Bela Lugosi); Tommy (Stuart Erwin), the representative of an American electric company, hoping to buy Wong's invention and finally wed his sweetheart Carol (Sari Maritza); resident physician Dr. Burns (George Burns) and his goofy aide Nurse Allen (Gracie Allen) dealing with a quarantine on the hotel; and the exasperation of the hotel's fussy and frustrated manager (Franklin Pangborn).\n\nDr. Wong is particularly eager to look in on a six-day indoor bicycle race in New York, but instead somehow brings in performances by popular crooner Rudy Vallée, bandleader-vocalist Cab Calloway, and precocious torch singer Baby Rose Marie, and comedians Stoopnagle and Budd. A floor show (featuring Sterling Holloway and Lona Andre) is also performed in the hotel's rooftop garden restaurant.\n\nUltimately, Tommy wins both the rights to the radioscope and his sweetheart, and Peggy Hopkins Joyce, having learned that Prof. Quail is a millionaire, quickly attaches herself to her next sugar daddy. Prof. Quail and his new companion are chased as he drives his little American Austin automobile through several public areas of the hotel and down several flights of a fire escape before driving it back into the hold of his autogyro and taking off.\n\n\n\n\"International House\" was produced before a strict Hollywood Production Code took effect in July 1934, and it is notable for the kind of risqué subject matter, humor and costumes associated with Pre-Code Hollywood. Top-billed Peggy Hopkins Joyce was famous as an unabashed real-life gold-digger, not as an actress. Her many affairs with and several marriages to wealthy older men earned her millions, and in the film she makes several humorous references to her profitable divorces, a topic that would become almost completely off-limits with enforcement of the Code. Several of the \"cellophane\" costumes in the \"She Was a China Tea-cup\" production number allow the bare outlines of breasts to be seen, a degree of nudity that the Code would not permit.\n\nThe setting of Wuhu, China also serves as a play on \"Woo-hoo!\", an exclamation which at that time was sometimes used to comment that something was sexually naughty. Hearing the city's name, W. C. Fields, as Professor Quail, responds to what he mistakes as homosexual flirting with \"Don't let the posy fool you\", referring to his own boutonniere, which he plucks out and tosses away. Walking down a hotel corridor, Fields pauses to peep through a keyhole, then comments, \"What won't they think of next!\" Such implications of what the Code called \"sex perversion\" (usually defined then as anything other than procreative sex in the missionary position) would soon be strictly prohibited. This was one of several films in which Fields tweaked censors' noses with one particular deniable double entendre. Sitting next to him in a small car, Joyce (whom he has punningly called \"my little Laplander\") squirms uncomfortably and tells him she is sitting on something. Fields checks, finds a cat under her, and exclaims, \"Ah, it's a pussy!\"\n\nPerforming with his hot dance band, Cab Calloway sings \"Reefer Man\", which describes the odd behavior and ravings of the titular heavy marijuana smoker (portrayed by bass player Al Morgan, who performs as if in a trance). In one gag, W. C. Fields enters a scene contentedly smoking an opium pipe (but with a cigar in place of the opium) and commenting, \"They stupefy! They're roasted!\", a play on two then-current cigarette advertising slogans. References to recreational drug use were among the many Legion of Decency thou-shalt-nots that would soon be rigidly enforced. \n\nIn the sequence with the Austin – the smallest car sold in America at that time – W. C. Fields remarks that it \"used to belong to the Postmaster General.\" This was a potshot at Will Hays, the diminutive former Postmaster General who was then trying to enforce an essentially voluntary and often disregarded early Production Code.\n\nOn March 10, 1933, an earthquake occurred during production, and a Paramount newsreel featured what was presented as footage of cast members on the set reacting as it struck. A documentary featurette on W. C. Fields accompanying the film's DVD release, however, reveals that Fields and director Sutherland faked the footage for the publicity. The actual earthquake, centered off nearby Long Beach, caused widespread major damage to unreinforced masonry and about 120 consequent fatalities. A 1976 episode of the television series \"In Search Of...\" that dealt with earthquakes showed the footage.\n\nLyricist Leo Robin and composer Ralph Rainger wrote three songs for the film: \"She Was a China Tea-cup and He Was Just a Mug\", performed offscreen by an unidentified male vocalist; \"Thank Heaven For You\", sung onscreen by Rudy Vallee; and \"My Bluebird's Singing the Blues\",\nsung onscreen by Baby Rose Marie. A fourth Robin-Rainger song, \"Look What I've Got\", originally featured in the slightly earlier film \"A Bedtime Story\", is heard as an instrumental, supposedly played by \"Ah Phooey and His Manly Mandarins\" in a broadcast from a radio station that calls itself \"The Voice of Long Tung\"; it provides the musical accompaniment for an otherwise silent he-and-she undressing scene. Cab Calloway and His Harlem Maniacs perform 1932's \"Reefer Man\", written by Andy Razaf (lyrics) and J. Russell Robinson (music).\n\nIn 1996, Universal Studios Home Video released the film on VHS. In 2004, it was released on Region 1 DVD as part of the five-disc W. C. Fields Comedy Collection set.\n\n"}
{"id": "2283825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283825", "title": "Super Channel (Canadian TV channel)", "text": "Super Channel (Canadian TV channel)\n\nSuper Channel Entertainment Network (Formally and commonly known as Super Channel) is a Canadian English language premium cable and satellite television channel owned by Allarco Entertainment 2008 Inc. Super Channel's programming primarily includes theatrically released, first to television motion pictures and television series, along with documentaries and other niche programs.\n\nThe current Super Channel service was launched in 2007, and is not affiliated with the two pre-existing English-language premium channels which used the name at various times prior to 2001, which were later known as Movie Central (in Western Canada; defunct since March 2016) and The Movie Network (in Eastern Canada; merged with and relaunched as Crave in 2018). The Allards were the original owners of Movie Central, and later re-acquired rights to the Superchannel trademark. Prior to 2016, Super Channel was the first and only general-interest English-language pay television service authorized to operate nationally. Family Channel (with its multiplex channel Family Jr.) was the only other national pay television channel, though it operated as a de facto basic tier specialty channel in most areas and on some providers.\n\nSuper Channel is available on nearly all major cable and satellite providers including Telus Optik TV, Bell TV, Shaw Direct, Access Communications, Cogeco, Rogers Cable, Shaw Cable, Eastlink and other providers. Super Channel was granted as a \"must carry\" service by the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC), meaning all television service providers must carry the service on their systems.\n\nAllarco was one of four applicants for new pay television licences that were considered at a public hearing held by the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission on October 24, 2005. Its competing applicants were:\n\nThe Allarco application was approved on May 18, 2006, while the other three applicants were rejected.\n\nThe Allard family were also the original owners of Movie Central, which during their stewardship until 2001 was known as \"Superchannel\", rendered as a single word title unlike the current service (for a time in the 1980s, First Choice (now The Movie Network) had also used the \"Superchannel\" name under a co-branding agreement). The \"Movie Central\" name was adopted shortly after Corus Entertainment acquired the service, but Corus maintained ownership of the \"Superchannel\" trademark. Just before the new channel's launch, the Allards re-acquired the rights to the \"Superchannel\" name under undisclosed terms.\n\nSuper Channel was launched on November 2, 2007, on Bell TV.\n\nSuper Channel's parent company, Allarco Entertainment, entered into the Companies' Creditors Arrangement Act on June 18, 2009. On August 31, 2010, its creditors unanimously approved a restructuring plan for the company under the act. The restructuring plan, which needed approval of the court, was later approved.\n\nOn May 26, 2016, Allarco filed for bankruptcy a second time. The next round of submissions to the court are due April 21, 2017 meaning the creditor protection is still open. As part of this process 96 of the 135 licensed content agreements were terminated.\n\nOn February 15, 2017, it was announced that a Canadian version of Ginx TV would launch as a replacement for one of Super Channel's multiplex channels. Replacing Super Channel 4, Ginx eSports TV Canada launched on May 4, 2017, with a live Canadian edition of \"The Bridge\", a late night talk show.\n\nOn February 22, 2017, Super Channel announced it had acquired the Canadian broadcast rights to the Legends Football League, as part of a three-year deal in which Super Channel will be the exclusive Canadian broadcaster of all LFL games through the 2019 season. The LFL will be used to launch the \"Super Channel SPORTS\" sub-brand that will be used for all sporting events and sports-themed programming. Super Channel 1 debuted \"LFL Football Night\" on April 22, 2017.\n\nOn April 4, 2017, Super Channel announced that it would rebrand Super Channel 3 as Super Channel VAULT on April 28, 2017. The channel is described as offering programming based on \"\"a collection of hand-picked, fan-favourites, critically-acclaimed films.\"\"\n\nIn 2018, after emerging from creditor protection, Allarco announced the relaunch of Super Channel with the rebranding of SC1 and SC2 as Super Channel Fuse and Super Channel Heart & Home and the service adopting the Super Channel Entertainment Network branding.\n\nIn 2020, the service announced a partnership with the Canadian Film Festival, to broadcast the films that had been slated to premiere at the festival prior to its cancellation due to the COVID-19 pandemic in Canada.\n\nDepending on the service provider, Super Channel provides up to eight multiplex channels – four 24-hour multiplex channels, all of which are simulcast in both standard definition and high definition – as well as a subscription video-on-demand service (Super Channel On Demand). Super Channel broadcasts its primary channel and multiplex channels on an Eastern Time Zone schedule, operating a singular feed for all channels, this results in the difference in local airtimes for a particular movie or program between two geographic locations being three hours at most.\n\nSuper Channel HD is a high definition simulcast feed of Super Channel that broadcasts in the 1080i resolution format. In addition to its main channel, Super Channel also operates high definition simulcast feeds of all three multiplex channels. Initially, Allarco launched two high definition feeds upon the launch of the service in November 2007: Super Channel HD 1 and Super Channel HD 2. Super Channel HD 1 simulcasted the standard definition feed of the same name, while Super Channel HD 2 initially aired programming from the three remaining SD feeds. In February 2013, Allarco launched HD feeds for the two remaining channels, Super Channel 3 and Super Channel 4, with each HD channel now simulcasting their standard definition equivalent.\n\nSuper Channel operates a subscription video-on-demand television service called Super Channel On Demand, which is available at no additional charge to new and existing subscribers of Super Channel. Content featured on the service includes movies, acquired foreign series and special features previously seen on the linear television network.\n\nSuper Channel's main programming consists of television series and both theatrically released and made for TV movies, including domestically produced programming, shows acquired from U.S cable networks, foreign films, and international series.\n\n"}
{"id": "2283827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283827", "title": "Kung Fu Ramone", "text": "Kung Fu Ramone\n\nKung Fu Ramone is the second album from the Japanese rock band Guitar Wolf. It was released only on vinyl record in the U.S., in 1994. It was never re-released on in other formats and was also the last vinyl LP that the band released. Some of the songs on the LP were later re-recorded and used on their debut compact disc album \"Run Wolf Run\", as well as in later projects.\n\n"}
{"id": "2283839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283839", "title": "American goulash", "text": "American goulash\n\nAmerican goulash, sometimes called slumgullion, is an American comfort food dish, similar to American chop suey. American goulash is usually referred to in the midwestern and southern United States as simply \"goulash\". As a descendant, of sorts, of Hungarian goulash, the only real connection seems to be the name, and the inclusion of beef and paprika.\n\nAmerican goulash, mentioned in cookbooks since at least 1914, exists in a number of variant recipes. Originally a dish of seasoned beef, core ingredients of American goulash now usually include various kinds of pasta, usually macaroni or egg noodles, ground beef cooked with any number of aromatics, usually onions and garlic, along with tomatoes of some sort, whether canned tomatoes (whole, diced, or crushed are all common variants), tomato sauce, or tomato paste. Some variations of American goulash include cheese.\n\n"}
{"id": "2283849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283849", "title": "Levatores costarum muscles", "text": "Levatores costarum muscles\n\nThe Levatores costarum (), twelve in number on either side, are small tendinous and fleshy bundles, which arise from the ends of the transverse processes of the seventh cervical and upper eleven thoracic vertebrae\n\nThey pass obliquely downward and laterally, like the fibers of the Intercostales externi, and each is inserted into the outer surface of the rib immediately below the vertebra from which it takes origin, between the tubercle and the angle (\"Levatores costarum breves\").\n\nEach of the four lower muscles divides into two fasciculi, one of which is inserted as above described; the other passes down to the second rib below its origin (\"Levatores costarum longi\").\n\nThey have a role in forceful inspiration.\n\n"}
{"id": "2283856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283856", "title": "John Terry (actor)", "text": "John Terry (actor)\n\nJohn Terry (born January 25, 1950) is an American film, television, and stage actor. He is perhaps best known for his role as Christian Shephard in the TV series \"Lost\" and Larry McCoy in the TV series \"Las Vegas\". He is also the father of football player Hanna Terry of KIF Örebro DFF in the Swedish women's football league Damallsvenskan.\n\nTerry was born in Vero Beach, Florida, where he attended Vero Beach High School. He was also educated at the prestigious Loomis Chaffee prep school in Windsor, Connecticut, and began a career building original custom log homes in North Carolina. He played roles in local theater before moving to Alaska where he founded a river rafting company. But his interest in acting did not diminish. At age 30 he moved to New York City and became a full-time actor.\n\nTerry's debut role was as the title character in the 1980 fantasy film \"Hawk the Slayer\", followed by roles in films such as \"There Goes the Bride\" (1980), \"Tuxedo Warrior\" (1982) and the action sequel \"Wild Geese II\" (1985), as Barbara Carrera's brother. His career then took a major upswing as he was assigned the roles of Lieutenant Lockhart in Stanley Kubrick's \"Full Metal Jacket\" (1987) and Felix Leiter in the James Bond film \"The Living Daylights\" (1987). Nothing as prominent followed immediately, though he received good notices for his role as a traumatized Vietnam veteran in Norman Jewison's \"In Country\" (1989). Terry subsequently played the lead in a well-regarded but short-lived TV series \"Against the Grain\". Terry played Slim in the 1992 film adaptation of \"Of Mice and Men\" and also appeared in \"The Resurrected\" (1992), an adaption of the H. P. Lovecraft novella, \"Case of Charles Dexter Ward\".\n\nHe found new success on television. He appeared in the first episodes of \"ER\" playing Dr. Div Cvetic, the love interest of Dr. Lewis, who disappeared after a nervous breakdown. He later played a recurring role in season two of Fox's real-time thriller \"24\", as Bob Warner, the father of both the love interest of hero Jack Bauer and of another daughter whose fiancé is suspected of being a terrorist.\n\nAfter a brief stint on NBC's \"Las Vegas\", he was cast as Christian Shephard, the father of Jack Shephard and Claire Littleton on ABC's \"Lost\". Terry reprised his role as Shephard on several occasions in flashbacks before appearing frequently in real time on the island as an incarnation of \"the man in black\". He had a guest role in a 2006 episode of \"Law & Order\", as well as the part of older Jacob Wheeler in Steven Spielberg's \"Into the West\" mini series, which was nominated for 16 Emmy Awards in 2006. He also appeared in David Fincher's \"Zodiac\", Matthew McConaughey's \"Surfer, Dude\", and the horror thriller \"Nine Dead\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2283861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283861", "title": "List of Hindu deities", "text": "List of Hindu deities\n\nHinduism is the dominant and native/original religion of the Indian subcontinent. It comprises four major traditions, Vaishnavism, Brahmanism, Shaktism, Shaivism, whose followers consider Vishnu, Brahma, Shakti(Devi) and Shiva to be the Supreme deity respectively. Most of the other deities were either related to them or different forms (incarnations) of these deities. Hinduism has been called the \"oldest religion\" in the world, and many practitioners refer to Hinduism as \"the eternal law\". (\"\"). Given below is a list of the chief Hindu deities followed by a list of Hindu deities (including demi-gods).\nSmartism, an older tradition and later reestablished by Jagadguru Adi Shankaracharya, invites the worship of more than one god including Shiva like that, Vishnu, Brahma, Shakti and\nGanesha (the elephant god) among other gods and goddesses. It is not as overtly sectarian as either Vashnavism,\nBrahmanism or Saivism and is based on the recognition that Brahman (God) is the highest principle in the universe and pervades all of existence.\n\nThe Hindu trinity consists of Brahma the Creator, Vishnu the Preserver, and Shiva the Destroyer. Their feminine counterparts are Saraswati, the wife of Brahma, Lakshmi, the wife of Vishnu, and Parvati the wife of Shiva. The followers of the last two form two major sects.\n\nCults of goddess worship are ancient in India. In the Rigveda, the most prominent goddess is Ushas, the goddess of dawn. In modern Hinduism, goddesses are widely revered. Shaktism is one of the major sects of Hinduism. Followers of Shaktism believe that the goddess (Devi) is the power (Shakti) that underlies the female principle, and that Devi is the supreme being, one and the same with Para Brahman. Shakti has many forms/manifestations like Parvati, Durga, and others but there are also goddesses that are parts of Shakti such as Lakshmi and Saraswati. Devi is believed to manifest in peaceful forms, such as Parvati the consort of Shiva and also in fierce forms, such as Kali and Durga. In Shaktism, Adi Parashakti is regarded as Ultimate Godhead or Para Brahman. She is formless i.e. Nirguna in reality, but may take many forms i.e. Saguna. Durga and Lalita Tripurasundari are regarded as the Supreme goddess in the Kalikula and Srikula systems respectively. Shaktism is closely related with Tantric Hinduism, which teaches rituals and practices for purification of the mind and body. Some different parts of Shakti (Devi) the Mother Goddess:\n\nShaivism is one of the major Hindu sects. Adherents of Shaivism believe that the god Shiva is the supreme being. Shiva is the destroyer god among the Trimurti, and so is sometimes depicted as the fierce god Bhairava. Shaivists are more attracted to asceticism than adherents of other Hindu sects, and may be found wandering with ashen faces performing self-purification rituals.\nSome alternative forms of Shiva (and Bhairavs) are listed below:\n\n\nAccording to Hinduism, Brahma is the creator of the entire cosmic universe. Although he is the creator, he is not worshipped in Hinduism. According to common lore, once Lord Brahma & Lord Vishnu wanted to find who is the best of the two and went to Lord Shiva to settle the argument. Lord Shiva advised the two that the first one to find the start and end of his celestial body would be considered the greatest. Lord Brahma & Lord Vishnu accepted the challenge and started their journey from the centre of Lord Shiva's body. Lord Brahma travelled towards Lord Shiva's head & Lord Vishnu travelled towards the feet. The two gods travelled for ages across the universe, but couldn't find the head or feet of Lord Shiva. On his journey, Lord Brahma came across an aloe vera flower falling from Lord Shiva's head. On querying the distance to Lord Shiva's head, the flower said it had been falling down from his head for eons. Lord Brahma thus realised that it was impossible to reach Shiva's head and decided to cheat. Lord Brahma asked the flower to testify that she had seen Lord Brahma reaching Lord Shiva's head. Lord Brahma went back to Shiva and informed him that he had visited his head (with a testimony from the flower), and requested he be declared as the greater of the two. As an eternal being, Shiva realised that Lord Brahma was not truthful and cursed him that he would not be worshipped by the gods or mortals. Lord Shiva also decreed that aloe vera flowers should never be used for Shiva puja.\n\nSome alternative names for Brahma are:\n\n\nVaishnavism is the sect within Hinduism that worships Vishnu, the preserver god of the Hindu \"Trimurti\" (the Trinity), and his many incarnations. It is a devotional sect, and followers worship many deities, including Rama and Krishna both the 7th & the 8th incarnations of Vishnu respectively. The adherents of this sect are generally non-ascetic, monastic and devoted to meditative practice and ecstatic chanting. Some alternate names of Vishnu the Preserver:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Rigveda speaks of Thirty-three gods called the Trayastrinshata ('Three plus thirty'). They consists of the 12 Adityas, the 8 Vasus, the 11 Rudras and the 2 Ashvins. Indra also called Śakra, lord of the gods, is the first of the 33 followed by Agni. Some of these brother gods were invoked in pairs such as Indra-Agni, Mitra-Varuna and Soma-Rudra.\n\n\nThe \"Ramayana\" tells they are eleven of the 33 children of the sage Kashyapa and his wife Aditi, along with the 12 Adityas, 8 Vasus and 2 Ashvins, constituting the Thirty-three gods. The \"Vamana Purana\" describes the Rudras as the sons of Kashyapa and Aditi. The \"Matsya Purana\" notes that Surabhi – the mother of all cows and the \"cow of plenty\" – was the consort of Brahma and their union produced the eleven Rudras. Here they are named: Nirriti, Shambhu, Aparajita Mrigavyadha, Kapardi, Dahana, Khara, Ahirabradhya, Kapali, Pingala and Senani. Brahma allotted to the Rudras the eleven positions of the heart and the five sensory organs, the five organs of action and the mind.\n\nAssistants of Indra and of Vishnu\n\nThe Ashvins (also called the Nāsatyas) were twin gods. Nasatya is also the name of one twin, while the other is called Dasra.\n\nMost of the Hindu temples are dedicated to Shiva, Vishnu (including his incarnations Krishna and Rama), Brahma, Shakti (the mother goddess, hence including the forms of Durga and Kali and the goddesses Lakshmi and Saraswati), Ganesh and Hanuman. The Hindu scriptures claimed that there were 33 KOTI or 33 category gods, \"koti\" meaning in Sanskrit \"crore\" (33 कोटि = 10 prakar, tarah ). Crore also translates to 10,000,000 or 10 million.\n\nOne theory is that the number 330 million (33 crore) gods refers to the total count of the then known population of all the humans and living beings that ever walked on this planet including the 84 lakh (8.4 million) jeeva rasi (living species) signifying that god exists in every living being. This is in line with the belief of Indians to respect all living beings as gods. It is estimated that the world population was around this number about a 1000 years ago when this number would have originated. It also explains the many gods (e.g. the grama devatas or village gods who were clearly living persons at one time and many of the other gods who were believed to have been persons, e.g. Rama and Krishna)\n\nAnother theory is that the number might be figurative but there are several names and forms for the multitude of gods. Given below is an incomplete list of deities.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nJagaddhatri\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAkasha\nAchyuta\nAdimurti\nAditi\nAdityas\nAgni\nAjjayya\nAmman\nAnala\nAnila\nAnnamma\nAnnapurna\nAnumati\nAnuradha\nAp\nApam Napat\nAranyani\nAravan\nArdhanari\nArdra\nArjuna\nAruna\nArundhati\nAryaman\nAshapura\nAsura\nAsvayujau\nAswiniis\nAyya Vaikundar\nAyyappan\nAyyanar\nAryadurga\nBadrakali\nBagalamukhi\nBahuchara Mata\nBalaji\nBalambika\nBalarama\nBanashankari\nBeeralingeswara\nBhadra\nBhadrakali\nBhaga\nBhairava\nBhairavi\nBharani\nBharati\nBhavani\nBhishma\nBhumidevi\nBhumiya\nBhutamata\nBhuvaneshvari\nBrahma\nBrahman\nBrahmani\nBrihaspati\nBuddha\nBuddhi\nBudhi Pallien\nChandi\nChandra\nChathan\nChhinnamasta\nChitragupta\nChamunda\nChoudeshwari\nDashka\nDakshayani\nDanu\nDattatreya\nDeva\nDevi\nDevnarayan\nDhanvantari\nDhara\nDharma\nDharma Shasta\nDhatri\nDhrishtadyumna\nDhumavati\nDiti\nDraupadi\nDurga Devi\nDyaus Pita\nGanapati\nGanga\nGangothri\nGaruda\nGayatri\nGomatha\nGhanshyam\nGuardians of the directions\nGuru Nanak\nGusainji\nHanuman\nHari\nHari Krishna\nHari Hara\nHrishikesh\nHuligamma\nHarbadevi\nHingladevi\nHombaleshwari\nHattilakkamma\nIndra\nIndrani\nJagaddhatri\nJagannath\nJalaram\nJatayu\nJhulelal\nJumadi\nJyotiba\nKali Yuga\nKalki\nKama\nKamadeva\nKamalatmika\nKamakhya\nKamakshi\nKanaka Durga\nKannaki Amman\nKanyakumari\nKarna\nKarthikeya\nKaruppa Swami\nKashyapa\nKathyayini\nKatteholeyamma\nKetu\nKhandoba\nKhatushyamji\nKhodiyar\nKinner Kailash\nKirata Moorti\nKrishna\nKubera\nKumbhakarna\nKunchumamba\nKurma\nKushmanda\nLakshmi\nLakshman\nLalitha\nLinga\nMadurai Veeran\nMahakali\nMahalasa\nMahalaxmi\nMahesh\nMahavidya\nMahavishnu\nMahishasura Mardini\nMailaralingeshwara\nMallanna\nManda\nMariamman\nMarkandeya\nMatrikas\nManasa\nMangala\nMaruts\nMatangi\nManikanta\nMatsya\nMaya calender\nMeenakshi\nMhasoba\nMitra\nMohini\nMookambika\nMuthyalamma\nMuttinamma\nMurugan\nMuniandi\nMuthappan\nMukyaprana\nMulkattamma\nMuneeswaran\nNaga Devata\nNaga siren\nNaga Yakshi\nNaina Devi\nNandi\nNandni\nNarada\nNarasimha\nNarayana\nNarmada Devi\nNataraja\nNavagrahas\nNeela\nNirrith\nNirrta\nNookambika\nPandavas\nParashurama\nParasiva\nParjanya\nParvati\nPashupati\nPerumal\nPrajapati\nPrithvi\nPushan\nPurusha\nRadha\nRahu\nRam\nRamdev Pir\nRamnathi\nRanganatha\nRati\nRatri\nRavastar\nRavi\nRbhus\nRenuka\nRevanta\nRohini Nakshatram\nRudra\nSai Baba\nSalumaradamma\nSamaleswari\nSantoshi Mata\nSaranyu\nSaraswati\nSati\nSavitar\nSesha Naga\nShani\nShakti\nShakti Peethas\nShantadurga\nShitala\nShiva\nShri Khand\nShubhanga\nShyam baba\nShyamala\nSita\nSkanda\nSoma\nSrimanjunatha\nSubrahmanya\nSurya\nSvaha\nSwaminarayan\nTara\nTejaji\nTrimurti\nTirupati Thimmappa\nTripura Sundari\nTvashtri\nUgratara\nUma\nUrvashi\nUshas\nVamana\nVaraha\nVarahi\nVaruna\nVasu\nVasudeva\nVayu\nVeerabhadra\nVeer Mhaskoba\nVenkateshwara\nVishnu\nVishvaksena\nVithoba\nVishwakarma\nVivasvat\nValli\nVyasa\nVishnumaya\nYaksha\nYakshini\nYama\nYamuna\nYami\nYellamma\nYudhishthira\nYamini\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2283863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283863", "title": "Ryūzaburō Umehara", "text": "Ryūzaburō Umehara\n\nHe attended the Kansai Academy of Art (also known as Kansai Art School) in Kyoto. He studied under Asai Chū along with Sōtarō Yasui. One of the artists he admired early in his career was Pierre-Auguste Renoir, while another formative influence later on was Georges Rouault. Professor of Art History Torao Miyagawa wrote that\n\nUmehara is one of the few Japanese artists of this period who found his style early in his career and then proceeded to perfect it over the years. He is also one of the first Japanese Western-style artists to discard any conscious effort to impose the formal rules or even the emotional overtones of traditional Japanese painting on the Western techniques. He favoured and exploited oils as a means of individual expression, utilizing the texture and strength of these pigments with a boldness and simple directness unrivalled by any of his contemporaries, and not observable to any degree in Japan until after World War II.\n"}
{"id": "2283871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283871", "title": "Pat Battle", "text": "Pat Battle\n\nPatricia N. \"Pat\" Battle (born December 9, 1959) is an American journalist. Since 1996, she has been at WNBC-TV.\n\nOf African-American descent, Battle grew up in Neptune Township, New Jersey, where her mother was a member of the township committee and served as police commissioner. She graduated from Neptune High School in 1977, where she had been a cheerleader. Her first job was with the \"Asbury Park Press\" as a reporter.\n\nBattle won a 2005 New York Regional Emmy Award for Political Programming for her work on the U.S. presidential primary edition of WNBC-TV's \"What Matters\".\n\nShe appeared as herself on the Netflix original show, \"Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt\".\n\nBattle is a resident of Teaneck, New Jersey, and is married to Anthony Johnson, a reporter with WABC-TV, a competing New York City television station. In October 2010, she publicly revealed that she had been diagnosed with breast cancer and undergone a lumpectomy.\n"}
{"id": "2283877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283877", "title": "Todeswunsch", "text": "Todeswunsch\n\nTodeswunsch - Sous le soleil de Saturne (German and French: \"Death Wish - Under the Sun of Saturn\") is the second album by darkwave band Sopor Aeternus & the Ensemble of Shadows and was released in 1995. \"Todeswunsch\" saw a fundamental change in sound, abandoning the heavily synthesized darkwave music for a sound akin to the Renaissance and neo-Medieval music. A limited pressing of 3,000 CDs was initially available, and the album has been re-released at least three times. An accompanying EP, \"Ehjeh Ascher Ehjeh\", was released later that year.\n\n\"Todeswunch\" was a major departure from Sopor Aeternus' first album, \"...Ich töte mich...\", in that the aggressive synthesized music of the first record was replaced with ornate Renaissance- and Baroque-inspired folk music. brass, woodwinds and acoustic guitars came to the fore, while drum machines were largely abandoned for varying amounts of hand percussion. Shrill female vocals also resound throughout the album, all of them provided by Anna-Varney Cantodea herself.\n\nThe album quotes heavily from other works. One example is the title track, where the music is a darkwave version of Cat Stevens' \"I Think I See the Light\". \"Drama der Geschlechtslosigkeit (part 2)\" employs the melody from \"Chim Chim Cher-ee\", as featured in \"Mary Poppins\", while \"Shadowsphere\" quotes the bass lines from Black Sabbath's \"Under the Sun\". \"The Devil's Instrument\" also quotes lyrics from Rozz Williams' \"Mysterium Inquitatis\". \"\"Todeswunsch\"\" contains the first instance of Cantodea's long-standing interest in Edgar Allan Poe: \"Die Bruderschaft des Schmerzes\" is a re-telling of his work \"Dream-Land\".\n\n\"Todeswunsch\" would see re-releases in 1999, 2003 and 2008. The album artwork received significant changes for both the 2003 and 2008 editions. The painting on the cover of the original release is a detail of \"Death of the Virgin\" by Michelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio. The title of \"Soror Sui Excidium\" was changed to \"Soror (Sister of Self-destruction)\" for re-releases, and both halves of \"Shadowsphere\" were indexed into one track on re-issue.\n\n"}
{"id": "2283882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283882", "title": "Sandals Resorts", "text": "Sandals Resorts\n\nSandals Resorts is a Jamaican operator of all-inclusive resorts for couples in the Caribbean and part of Sandals Resorts International (SRI), parent company of Sandals Resorts, Beaches Resorts, Grand Pineapple Beach Resorts, Fowl Cay Resort and several private villas. Founded by Jamaican-born Gordon \"Butch\" Stewart in 1981, SRI is based in Montego Bay, Jamaica and is responsible for resort development, service standards, training and day-to-day operations. Sandals Resorts International has properties throughout the Caribbean islands of Jamaica, The Bahamas, Saint Lucia, Antigua, Turks & Caicos, and most recently Barbados, and Grenada with sixteen Sandals Resorts, three Beaches Resorts, one Grand Pineapple Beach Resort, one Fowl Cay private island resort and four villa properties in Jamaica.\n\nSandals Resorts properties include: \nFormer resorts:\n\nIn July 2009, SRI partnered with Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia to bring customizable Martha Stewart Weddings to brides and grooms having a destination wedding at any of the 16 Sandals Resorts and Beaches Resorts beginning January 1, 2010. The companies also announced that they will introduce Martha Stewart Crafts classes for adults at Sandals Resorts and craft camps for families at Beaches Resorts in 2010.\n\nIn August 2009, SRI announced the purchase of the former Four Season Great Exuma, which debuted as Sandals Emerald Bay, Great Exuma, Bahamas on January 22, 2010.\n\nGordon \"Butch\" Stewart, born in Kingston, Jamaica, on July 6, 1941, is the Chairman and Founder of Sandals Resorts International (SRI). After rising to the position of sales manager for the Dutch-owned Curaçao Trading Company, Stewart left in 1968 to start Appliance Traders, Ltd. (ATL), an air-conditioner service and distribution company. Gordon's son Adam Stewart is the current Deputy Chairman of SRI. Gebhard Rainer is the current CEO of Sandals Resorts International.\n\nThe first government-owned, “all-inclusive” resort opened in Ocho Rios and ATL was contracted to supply kitchen appliances and air conditioners. Stewart then purchased an old hotel on one of Montego Bay’s largest beaches, despite having no hotel experience.\n\nAs of 2007, he controls what analysts estimate to be a billion dollar, privately owned Jamaican-based empire that includes 25 Caribbean resorts, Appliance Traders Ltd., and \"The Observer\" newspaper.\n\nAdam Stewart is the current CEO of Sandals Resorts International (SRI), which owns and operates Caribbean-based Sandals Resorts, Beaches Resorts and Grand Pineapple Beach Resorts. Stewart oversees all areas of SRI operations, which is headquartered in Montego Bay, Jamaica. He has held this position since 2006. Stewart was born on January 27, 1981, the same year that his father, Gordon \"Butch\" Stewart purchased his first hotel and launched the Sandals Resorts chain. Adam Stewart was raised in Jamaica and graduated from Florida International University’s Hospitality Management Program in Miami, FL.\n\nIn 1984, Sandals launched the Caribbean's first swim-up bar at its Montego Bay Resort in Jamaica.\n\nIn March 2009, Stewart launched The Sandals Foundation, the philanthropic arm of Sandals Resorts International.\n\nIn August 2009, Adam Stewart was appointed as Deputy Chairman of the family-owned ATL Group comprising the Jamaica Observer and a chain of appliance outlets.\n\nThe company had a long-standing policy dating from 1981 that banned gays from their \"couples-only\" resorts. The policy was variously stated by characterizing the accommodations as \"resort for couples (heterosexual) only\", or \"Couples only. A couple is defined as one female adult and one male adult\", \"policies require male/female couples only\", or \"couples of the same gender are not accepted.\" Sandals' anti-gay policy received a great deal of publicity when stays at their resorts were offered as prizes in various promotions by companies such as Microsoft, Yahoo!, and US Airways in 1999. Later reports indicated that some resorts also made no accommodations for people with disabilities, prompting the ACLU to opine that companies offering Sandals stays as prizes, or otherwise doing business with Sandals resorts, might be the targets of lawsuits. The companies involved promptly severed their relationships with Sandals, stating they were unaware of its discriminatory practices. Adverts for the company were banned from the London Underground in 2003 after public objections were raised. One possible cause for this policy may have been that homosexuality was illegal in Jamaica. Sandals ended its policy of refusing service to gay couples in August 2004 after further protest.\n\nIn January 2013, the government of Turks and Caicos Islands and Sandals agreed to a settlement of US$12 million around local corruption allegations, without admission of any liability.\n"}
{"id": "2283884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283884", "title": "Interspinales muscles", "text": "Interspinales muscles\n\nThe interspinales are short muscular fasciculi, found in pairs between the spinous processes of the contiguous vertebrae, one on either side of the interspinal ligament.\n\n"}
{"id": "2283913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283913", "title": "Intertransversarii", "text": "Intertransversarii\n\nThe intertransversarii are small muscles placed between the transverse processes of the vertebrae.\n\nIn the cervical region they are best developed, consisting of rounded muscular and tendinous fasciculi, and are placed in pairs, passing between the anterior and the posterior tubercles respectively of the transverse processes of two contiguous vertebrae, and separated from one another by an anterior primary division of the cervical nerve, which lies in the groove between them.\n\nBoth sets are supplied by the anterior rami of the spinal nerves.\n\nThere are seven pairs of these muscles, the first pair being between the atlas and axis, and the last pair between the seventh cervical and first thoracic vertebræ.\n\nIn the thoracic region they are present between the transverse processes of the lower three thoracic vertebrae, and between the transverse processes of the last thoracic and the first lumbar. These are called the \" thoracic intertransversarii\" and are supplied by the posterior rami of the spinal nerves.\n\nIn the lumbar region they are arranged in pairs, on either side of the vertebral column, \n\nThe intertransversarii laterales are supplied by the anterior rami, and the intertransversarii mediales by the posterior rami of the spinal nerves.\n\nThey contribute little to movement on their own, but they stabilize adjoining vertebrae allowing more effective action from other muscle groups.\n\n"}
{"id": "2283914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283914", "title": "Uniflite", "text": "Uniflite\n\nUniflite (United Boat Builders) was founded in Bellingham, Washington by Art Nordtvedt in October 1957. Although the company is best remembered as a maker of recreational powerboats, its initial products were small fiberglass runabouts. The company also supplied river patrol craft to the US Navy between 1965 and 1972 for use in the Vietnam War.\n\nUniflite was acquired by Chris-Craft Boats in 1984, who continued to build the boats under their brand until they ceased production in 1989.\n\nAfter the company's demise, Art's son, Gary Nordtvedt, went on to found Norstar Boats.\n\nUniflite (United Boat Builders) was started in Bellingham, WA by Art \"Papa\" Nordtvedt, beloved Father/Grandfather/Great-Grandfather, in October 1957.\n\nThe first Uniflite boat an all fiberglass 17' outboard. Uniflite soon added a 14', an 18' and a 20' outboard and inboard/outboard boats, followed by a 25' express cruiser followed by a 31' and a 34' boat. Uniflite was the only boat builder exclusively using fire-retardant resins in the production of pleasure boats.\n\nIn January 1959, the plant and office moved into the old plywood plant in Fairhaven, Washington (in Bellingham). This became Uniflite's permanent home.\n\nIn 1962, Uniflite became a public company trading on the New York Stock Exchange, thus becoming eligible for Navy contracts.\n\nIn 1965, the Navy awarded Uniflite with a contract to build Patrol Boat, Rivers (PBRs). The PBRs were powered by twin Detroit 6V53's with water jets and they cruised between 25 and 31 knots. There were approximately 718 PBRs built, at least 418 of which were built by Uniflite. At the height of production two PBRs were rolling off the assembly line along with one 36' landing craft each day. In addition to the Navy contracts, in the 1960s and early 1970s Uniflite had numerous other military contract building 14' and 50' boats: patrol craft, landing craft, and personnel boats. Uniflite also built commercial fishing boats, and sailboats besides the more widely recognized pleasure boats.\n\nIn 1977, Uniflite acquired boat molds from Pacemaker Boat Co. Pacemaker Boat company was founded in 1949 by Charles Platt (C.P.) Leek in New Jersey from his company C.P. Leek & Sons, Inc. who also later established Egg Harbor boat company. It was at this time that Uniflite started a second Uniflite plant in Swansboro, North Carolina.\n\nIn 1980, a fire almost totally destroyed the Uniflite plant in Bellingham. However, since they had molds in Swansboro, NC, they were able to continue production of their boats.\n\nIn 1984, Uniflite was acquired by Chris Craft for $10 per share. Chris Craft built many of the identical boats under the Chris Craft label until they stopped production in 1989.\n"}
{"id": "2283917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283917", "title": "Eau Claire River", "text": "Eau Claire River\n\nEau Claire River is the name of several rivers in North America, including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2283918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283918", "title": "Ciriaco de' Pizzicolli", "text": "Ciriaco de' Pizzicolli\n\nCiriaco de' Pizzicolli or Cyriacus of Ancona (31 July 1391 – 1453/55) was a restlessly itinerant Italian humanist and antiquarian who came from a prominent family of merchants in Ancona, a port on the Adriatic. He has been called the Father of Archaeology:\n\n\"\"Cyriac of Ancona was the most enterprising and prolific recorder of Greek and Roman antiquities, particularly inscriptions, in the fifteenth century, and the general accuracy of his records entitles him to be called the founding father of modern classical archeology.\"\"\n\nUnlike many library antiquarians, Ciriaco traveled at first for his family's ventures then to satisfy his own curiosity, all around the Eastern Mediterranean, noting down his archaeological discoveries in his day-book, \"Commentaria,\" that eventually filled six volumes. He made numerous voyages in Southern Italy, Dalmatia and Epirus and into the Morea, to Egypt, to Chios, Rhodes and Beirut, to Anatolia and Constantinople, during which he wrote detailed descriptions of monuments and ancient remains, illustrated by his drawings. \n\nHe was employed by the Ottomans during the 1422 siege of Constantinople. His detailed on-site observations, particularly in lands of the Ottoman Empire, make him one of the precursors of modern archaeology. His accuracy as a meticulous epigrapher was praised by Giovanni Battista de Rossi.\n\nHis years in Rome studying Latin are commemorated by his drawings of many of the monuments and antiquities of ancient Rome. In Constantinople he studied Greek. He enjoyed the patronage of Eugenius IV, who had been Papal legate in the March of Ancona from 1420 to 1422, Cosimo de' Medici, and the Visconti of Milan. He was in Siena at the court of Sigismund, and when Sigismund came to Rome for his coronation as Emperor, Ciriaco was his guide among Rome's antiquities. Two years later in 1435, Ciriaco was back exploring in Greece and Egypt.\n\nHe was probably the first traveler who recognized the importance of the ruins of Eretria. On 5 April 1436, he described and sketched a plan of the ancient city walls, indicating the position of the theatre and the fortifications of the acropolis and mentioning the existence of inscriptions. He collected a great store of inscriptions, manuscripts, and other antiquities. Through a drawing made for Ciriaco, the appearance of the Column of Justinian is recorded for us, before it was dismantled by the Ottomans. He returned in 1426 after having visited Rhodes, Beirut, Damascus, Cyprus, Mytilene, Thessalonica, and other places.\n\nPushed by a strong curiosity, he also bought a great number of documents which he used to write six volumes of \"Commentarii\" (\"Commentaries\"). The ravages of time have been unkind to Ciriaco's lifework, which he never published, but which fortunately circulated in manuscript and in copies of his drawings; the \"Commentarii\" were lost in the 1514 fire of the library of Alessandro and Costanza Sforza in Pesaro. A series of Pizzicolli's manuscripts about Ancona was destroyed during a fire of the city's archives in 1532.\n\nHe retired to Cremona, where he lived so quietly that the year of his death is not certain. Long after his death, some surviving texts were printed: \"Epigrammata reperta per Illyricum a Kyriaco Anconitano\" (Rome, 1664), \"Cyriaci Anconitani nova fragmenta notis illustrata\", (Pesaro, 1763) and \"Itinerarium\" (Florence, 1742).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2283925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283925", "title": "James Patrick Kelly", "text": "James Patrick Kelly\n\nJames Patrick Kelly (born April 11, 1951 in Mineola, New York) is an American science fiction author.\n\nKelly made his first fiction sale in 1975. He graduated \"magna cum laude\" from the University of Notre Dame in 1972, with a B.A. in English Literature. After graduating from college, he worked as a full-time proposal writer until 1977. He attended the Clarion Workshop twice - once in 1974 and again in 1976.\n\nThroughout the 1980s, he and friend John Kessel became involved in the humanist/cyberpunk debate. While Kessel and Kelly were both humanists, Kelly also wrote several cyberpunk-like stories, such as \"The Prisoner of Chillon\" (1985) and \"Rat\" (1986). His story \"Solstice\" (1985) was published in Bruce Sterling's anthology \"Mirrorshades: The Cyberpunk Anthology\".\n\nKelly has been awarded several of science fiction's highest honors. He won the Hugo Award for his novelette \"Think Like a Dinosaur\" (1995) and again for his novelette \"10 to 1\" (1999). Most recently, his 2005 novella, \"Burn\", won the 2006 Nebula Award. Other stories have won the Asimov's Reader Poll and the SF Chronicle Award. He is frequently on the final ballot for the Nebula Award, the Locus Poll Award and the Theodore Sturgeon Memorial Award. He frequently teaches and participates in science fiction workshops, such as Clarion and the Sycamore Hill Writer's Workshop. He has served on the New Hampshire State Council on the Arts since 1998 and chaired the council in 2004.\n\nHe is currently on the Popular Fiction faculty for the Stonecoast MFA Program in Creative Writing at the University of Southern Maine.\n\nHe is a frequent contributor to \"Asimov's Science Fiction\" and for the past several years has contributed a non-fiction column to \"Asimov's\", \"On the Net.\" He has had a story in the June issue of \"Asimov's\" for the past twenty years. In addition to his writing, Kelly has recently turned his hand to editing (with John Kessel), with several reprint anthologies: \"Feeling Very Strange: The Slipstream Anthology\", \"\" and \"The Secret History of Science Fiction\". Through these anthologies, Kelly and Kessel have brought together a wide spectrum of both traditional genre authors and authors who are considered to be more mainstream, including Don DeLillo, George Saunders, Jonathan Lethem, Aimee Bender, Michael Chabon and Steven Millhauser.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2283954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283954", "title": "Sword hunt", "text": "Sword hunt\n\nSeveral times in Japanese history, the new ruler sought to ensure his position by calling a . Armies would scour the entire country, confiscating the weapons of the enemies of the new regime. In this manner, the new ruler sought to ensure that no one could take the country by force as he had just done. The most famous sword hunt was ordered by Toyotomi Hideyoshi in 1588.\n\nPrior to the sword hunt called by Oda Nobunaga towards the end of the 16th century, civilians were free to carry swords for defense or simply for decoration. Nobunaga sought an end to this, and ordered the seizure of swords and a variety of other weapons from civilians, in particular the Ikkō-ikki peasant-monk leagues which sought to overthrow \"samurai\" rule. \n\nIn 1588, Toyotomi Hideyoshi, having become kampaku or \"imperial regent\", ordered a new sword hunt; Hideyoshi, like Nobunaga, sought to solidify separations in the class structure, denying commoners weapons while allowing them to the nobility, the samurai class. In addition, Toyotomi's sword hunt, like Nobunaga's, was intended to prevent peasant uprisings and to deny weapons to his adversaries. This hunt may have been inspired by a peasant uprising in Higo the year prior, but also served to disarm the sōhei of Mount Kōya and Tōnomine. Toyotomi claimed that the confiscated weapons would be melted down and used to create a giant image of the Buddha for the Asuka-dera monastery in Nara.\n\n\"Taikō's Sword Hunt\", as it came to be called, was accompanied by a number of other edicts, including the Expulsion Edict of 1590, by which Toyotomi sought to establish a census and expel from villages any newcomers who arrived in or after 1590. The chief goal of this was to place a check on the threat posed by rōnin, masterless wandering samurai who had the potential not only for crime and violence in general, but for banding together to overthrow Toyotomi rule. Hideyoshi, like most of this period, believed in rule by edict, paying little or no attention to legal principles.\n\nWhile the Sword Hunt ostensibly succeeded in denying weapons to potential rebels, it also created discontent throughout the nation, increasing the number and passion of potential rebels.\n\nThe Meiji Restoration of the 1860s was the beginning of a period of major modernization and Westernization. In 1871, extensive reforms were passed and executed, abolishing the \"han\" system, and thus ending feudalism and the class system.\n\nIn 1876, \"samurai\" were banned from carrying swords. A standing army was created, as was a police force. This \"sword hunt\" was performed for, ostensibly, different reasons, and certainly with different methods than those of several centuries earlier. This sword hunt put an end to the class system while the earlier ones were intended to deepen the distinctions between commoners and nobles. Ultimately, however, the result of this sword hunt was the same as the results of its predecessors; the hunt ensured that the only weapons were in the hands of the ruling government and not available to potential dissenters.\n\nToday, Japan has a Sword and Firearms Law which, much like gun control laws around the world, governs the possession and use of weapons in public. The purchase and ownership of certain swords within Japan is legal if they are properly registered, though the import and export of such items is tightly controlled, particularly in the case of items that might be labeled as national or cultural artifacts. Swords that are not produced by licensed smiths (including all machine-made swords) are prohibited for individuals. Japanese military swords are legal in Japan if they were made with traditional materials and methods.\n\n"}
{"id": "2283959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283959", "title": "Grimsaem", "text": "Grimsaem\n\nGrimsaem Animation Co. Ltd., Seoul, Korea () was an animation studio located in South Korea. It is a division of Sunwoo Entertainment. Grimsaem creates feature-length work for Nickelodeon, and has worked on the Fox TV series Family Guy, animating the full first and third seasons of the show.\n\nThe Grimsaem animation studio is also known as Sunwoo Entertainment because it was spun off of the Sunwoo after years of success. The company was established in the year of 1979, and it is known to be a South Korean animation studio. It is claimed that the studio had been around since the year of 1974 though. They began by working with South Korean productions, but they eventually moved to work with Disney about ten years later. Now they are considered to be one of the more popular overseas animation studios. Once Sunwoo became successful, the new and different companies that were born from it included Anivision, Sunwoo Digital, and of course Grimseam. In addition to working along with Disney, Sunwoo and its smaller studios have also worked for Universal, Cookie Jar Entertainment, 20th Century Fox, and Nickelodeon in the years following. In the year of 2000, all of the companies that were broken away from Sunwoo ended back up in the Sunwoo Entertainment studio.\n\n"}
{"id": "2283963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283963", "title": "Sim RPG Maker", "text": "Sim RPG Maker\n\nThere have been two versions of \"Sim RPG Maker\". A Windows version was released on May 29, 1998, in Japan only.\nShortly after the first release, there was a console version released on September 17, 1998 for the Sega Saturn and Sony PlayStation in Japan only by ASCII.\n\nSimulation RPG Maker 95 was released a year after RPG Maker 95 and allowed the user to create tactical games similar to the Fire Emblem series. While Sim RPG Maker 95 retained the user friendly layout and design of RPG Maker 95 it required a basic understanding of the program to properly use.\n\nThis style of game is classified as a tactical RPG similar to \"Final Fantasy Tactics\", \"Fire Emblem\", and \"\".\n\nThe program is somewhat limited and inflexible in comparison to other RPG Makers. It comes with a run-time package (RTP) with built-in graphics for animations. Custom graphics can be added, but this is more difficult than in other programs from the \"RPG Maker\" series. Graphics are limited to 256 colors, which can cause distortion if two graphics with differing pallets are used on the same map. Files must follow a strict naming convention using letters to designate the type of file, followed by numbers to differentiate the file. For example, a walking graphic for a character class using picture ID 007, could be named CA03_007. The first two letters, \"CA\", correspond to \"character animation\". The first set of numerical digits correspond to the animation slot used in the animation editor, slot 03. The final set of numerical digits correspond to the picture ID being used, 007.\nOne advantage \"Sim RPG Maker\" has over others in the series is that it does not require the installation of the RTP to run a game created by the program. Only the installation of the game is necessary. However, the graphics can only come in BMP file format, creating larger file sizes than the other \"RPG Maker\" programs.\n\nA game typically involves several maps, each with a starting event or cutscene, the main battle, and an ending cutscene. In between maps, players can be sent to the camp, where they may purchase items, switch out party members, change equipment, or check stats of characters. Maps can be designed with different objectives in mind. The most common objective is defeating all enemies or a specific boss character. In addition, players may have to survive a set number of rounds, move past a specified location, or prevent specified characters from dying. Some maps may even be used strictly for cutscenes, with no battles taking place. Maps are progressed through linearly, but it is possible to send the player to maps out of order, enabling multiple/alternate storyline forks. It is also possible to send the player to a previous map.\n\n"}
{"id": "2283966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283966", "title": "Emanuel de Witte", "text": "Emanuel de Witte\n\nEmanuel de Witte (1617–1692) was a Dutch perspective painter. In contrast to Pieter Jansz Saenredam, who emphasized architectural accuracy, De Witte was more concerned with the atmosphere of his interiors. Though few in number, de Witte also produced genre paintings.\n\nDe Witte was born in Alkmaar and learned geometry from his father a schoolmaster. He joined the local Guild of St Luke in 1636. After a stay in Rotterdam, he moved to Delft and studied with Evert van Aelst. In 1651 de Witte settled in Amsterdam where his first wife, Geerje Arents, died in 1655. He then married a 23-year-old orphan, Lysbeth van der Plas, who exercised a bad influence on de Witte's adolescent daughter. In December 1659 both were arrested for theft from a neighbour. Lysbeth, pregnant, had to leave the city for a period of six years; she lived outside the city walls and died in 1663. \n\nFollowing the arrest of his wife and child, de Witte was forced to indenture himself to the Amsterdam notary and art dealer Joris de Wijs, surrendering all of his work in exchange for room, board, and 800 guilders annually. De Witte broke the contract, was sued by the dealer, and forced to indenture himself further as a result. Several patrons provided de Witte with support, but these relations did not work out well, for he tended to shout at his clients and at people watching him at work in churches. Records tell of his gambling habit and a fight with Gerard de Lairesse. Around 1688 he moved in with Hendrick van Streeck, in exchange for training him as a painter of church interiors. According to Arnold Houbraken, after an argument about the rent, de Witte hanged himself from a canal bridge in 1692. The rope broke and de Witte drowned. Because the canal froze that night, his corpse was not found until eleven weeks later. \n\nDe Witte initially painted portraits as well as mythological and religious scenes. After his move from Delft to Amsterdam in 1651, de Witte specialized more and more in representing church interiors, and also he painted the old church in Amsterdam from almost every corner. He sometimes combined aspects of different churches to depict interiors of ideal churches, populating them with churchgoers, sometimes accompanied by the dog. De Witte's excellent sense of composition combined with his use of light created atmospheres which seem honest and real. His theme may have been light and how it creates livable space.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2283970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283970", "title": "San Policarpo", "text": "San Policarpo\n\nSan Policarpo may refer to :\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2283977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283977", "title": "Florida State Road 52", "text": "Florida State Road 52\n\nState Road 52 (SR 52) is the major east–west road through northern Pasco County, Florida. The road begins in Bayonet Point at US 19 (SR 55), passes through San Antonio, runs past Saint Leo University, in Saint Leo, and terminates in Dade City at US 98 / US 301 (SR 533).\n\nState Road 52 exists primarily as a six-lane commercial strip between US 19 and Moon Lake Road. In 2007, the road was widened to six lanes between Moon Lake Road and Suncoast Parkway, but most of the development taking place here has been residential so far. On the Southeast corner of the Suncoast Parkway interchange, there is a Florida State Police barracks and Florida Division of Forestry fire tower. The road narrows down to four lanes and then two as it enters Fivay Junction and approaches Shady Hills Road, before crossing the Pithlachascotee River. As the road runs along the north side of some agricultural land, it eventually meets with a railroad crossing, and then passes a saw mill before encountering US 41 (SR 45) at a section of Pasco County which is known as Gowers Corner. Plans to widen SR 52 in the vicinity of US 41 include the realignment of both roads.\n\nEast of US 41 is a community known as the Pilot Country Estates Airport, where residents have their own private airplanes. Beyond that, most of the features surrounding SR 52 consist of fledgling farmland and minor lakes. At least one other gated community exists east of this point. Other sites along this segment include the Dirt Devil's Speedway and a concrete factory on the southwest corner of CR 583 (Ehren Cutoff). A winery was established at some point in the early 21st Century and a model aviation club existed in one of two locations along this segment of the road.\n\nAfter a pair of bridges over two dry creeks, SR 52 encounters Bellamy Brothers Boulevard (CR 581 North), which leads drivers north through farms and woods before entering the City of Brooksville. Meanwhile, SR 52 climbs a hill and then drops before approaching the Pasco County Juvenile Detention Center. Almost immediately, the road enters the unincorporated hamlet of Pasco as it crosses a former railroad right-of-way that once ran from St. Petersburg to Trilby. The interchange with Interstate 75 (Exit 285) is easily in view of motorists before reaching the former grade crossing, but not without approaching a gated community and two truck stops.\n\nImmediately after the I-75 interchange, SR 52 passes by and industrial park and Recreational Vehicle dealership, then curves to the northeast as it crosses another dry creek bridge. The road turns back east as it enters San Antonio and instantly makes a direct left curve into Saint Leo. The north-to-eastbound ramp takes drivers though the St. Leo Abbey Historic District and Saint Leo University on a steep hill.\n\nBetween CR 579 and Alternate CR 35, there's an CR 52 Alternate along Clinton Avenue south of State Road 52 that has no direct connection to the main road. Immediately after the CR 579 intersection, the road takes another sharp northeast curve, and despite a sharp curve back to the right, continues to move to the northeast.\nAfter SR 52 enters the Dade City Limits, it runs along the northwestern border of Pasco High School, until the intersection of Old San Ann Drive and moves north onto 21st Street. Eventually, County Road 41 replaces SR 52 as the designation for 21st Street when it makes a sharp right onto Meridian Avenue, but eastbound SR 52 and southbound CR 41 overlap each other until 17th Street, where CR 41 turns south unexpectedly. As the road divides again east of 10th Street, drivers truly enter the heart of Dade City when they encounter local parkland that was once part of a Seaboard Air Line right-of-way, and then intersects 7th Street (former US 98-301), where the historic Pasco County Courthouse can be found on the southeast corner. After passing by more local government buildings including the Dade City Branch of the Pasco County Library, State Road 52 ends at US 98-301 on the opposite side of the Dade City Atlantic Coast Line Railroad Depot. This was a Truck Detour for US 98-301 until February 2007.\n\nFormer segments of State Road 52, have included Roth Lane, in Saint Leo, and North 21st Street and Lock Street in Dade City.\n\nCounty Road 52 Alternate is the bannered route of SR 52 south of Dade City. It begins at County Road 579 just south of the intersection with SR 52, and runs east along Clinton Street.\n\n"}
{"id": "2283981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283981", "title": "Bad Boy (Larry Williams song)", "text": "Bad Boy (Larry Williams song)\n\n\"Bad Boy\" is a song written and recorded by American R&B musician Larry Williams. Specialty Records released it as a single in 1958, but it failed to reach the U.S. \"Billboard\" charts. However, music journalist Stephen Thomas Erlewine calls it one of Williams's \"genuine rock & roll classics\" and notes its popularity among 1960s British Invasion groups, such as the Beatles.\n\nWilliams was among the early rhythm and blues artists to adapt his style to the new rock and roll sound. The lyrics reflect a teenage sensibility: \"He's a guy who causes trouble in the classroom, puts chewing gum in little girls' hair, and doesn't want to go to school to learn to read and write\", according to critic Richie Unterberger. Musically, he calls it:\n\nMusic writer Gene Sculatti compares it to Williams's earlier song \"Dizzy, Miss Lizzy\", but with backup vocals more like the Coasters \"Charlie Brown\" and the Everly Brothers \"Bird Dog\", both \"Billboard\" chart hits.\n\nThe song was recorded at Radio Recorders in Hollywood, California, on August 14, 1958, by:\n\n\"Bad Boy\" is one of several Larry Williams songs the English rock band the Beatles recorded during their career. They recorded it on May 10, 1965, (Williams' birthday), along with Williams' \"Dizzy, Miss Lizzy,\" and was originally intended solely for release in North America. \"Bad Boy\" was first released on the American album \"Beatles VI\" in June 1965, while \"Dizzy, Miss Lizzy\" appeared on the British \"Help!\" album in August of that year. \"Bad Boy\" was eventually released in the UK on the compilation album \"A Collection of Beatles Oldies\", in December 1966; it was later released worldwide on the 1988 compilation album \"Past Masters, Volume One\", as well as its 2009 reissue, \"Past Masters\", which combines both volumes.\n\n\nThe Australian group the Twilights, which had formed in 1964 largely because of a shared enthusiasm for the Beatles, released a recording of \"Bad Boy\" in June 1966, which was a Top 10 hit in many parts of Australia. The Twilights' lead singer was Glenn Shorrock, who went on to international success with the Little River Band.\n"}
{"id": "2283982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283982", "title": "Chin Kung", "text": "Chin Kung\n\nChin Kung, AM (淨空; pinyin: \"Jìngkōng\") (born 13 July 1927) is a Buddhist monk from the Mahayana tradition. He is the founder of the Corporate Body of the Buddha Educational Foundation, an organization based on the teachings of Pure Land Buddhism. He is known for his teaching of the dharma, and work in promoting inter-faith harmony in Australia and the Asia-Pacific region.\n\nHe was born in Lujiang County, Anhui Province, China as Hsu Yeh-hong (徐業鴻, Xú Yèhóng ). He spent thirteen years studying Buddhism and Philosophy under the guidance of Professor Fang Tung-mei (), Changkya Khutukhtu (章嘉呼圖克圖 a master in Mongolian Buddhism), and lay teacher Lee Ping-nan (). He entered the monastic life in 1959, and was ordained at Lintzi Temple at Yuanshan in Taipei, Taiwan. It was then that he received the dharma name of Chin Kung, meaning \"pure emptiness\".\n\nHe has resided in Australia for many years. He has also travelled many times to Hong Kong disseminating the teachings of Pure Land. In 2018, he worked with the British government and the University of Wales Trinity to promote study in Sinology in order to revitalize the teaching of the ancient sages of China.\n\nChin Kung is well known for using modern technology to spread the Buddha's teachings. His lectures are recorded on audio, video tapes and CDs for wide distribution in many temples, where they can be passed on.\n\nHe has sponsored the printing and the distribution of Buddhist texts worldwide, as well as portraits and pictures of various buddhas and bodhisattvas, free of charge. In recent years, Chin Kung has emphasized the Infinite Life Sutra and the Pure Land cultivation method of Buddha recitation, which is concerned mainly with the recitation of Amitābha Buddha's name.\n\nChin Kung has used Buddhist teachings to bridge gaps and overcome misunderstandings between different faiths through interfaith visits and dialogues, especially in Asia and Australia. In recognition of his achievements, he has been accorded with several awards and honours.\n\nIn 2002, he was awarded an Honorary Professorship from the University of Queensland and an Honorary Doctorate from Griffith University, Australia. In December 2003, he was appointed the Honorary Founding Patron of the Australian Centre for Peace and Conflict Studies at the University of Queensland. In April 2004, he was awarded an Honorary Doctorate by the University of Southern Queensland. In June 2004, he was awarded an Honorary Doctorate of Syarif Hidayatullan State Islamic University, Jakarta in Indonesia. In August, he was invited to present a paper at the 2004 Okayama Topia for International Contribution NGO Network Conference on the United Nations.\n\nIn June 2005, the Most Venerable Chin Kung was appointed as a member in the General Division of the Order of Australia by Queen Elizabeth II. He was recognised for service to the Buddhist community in Queensland, particularly through the promotion of Buddhism and the fostering of interfaith activities between diverse ethnic groups, and to the community through support for educational and health institutions.\n\nIn 2006, he sponsored and attended the commemoration of the 2550th birthday of Sakyamuni Buddha, which took place in the office of the UNESCO in Paris, organized by the Venerable Tampalawela Dhammaratana, ex-president of the Buddhist Union of France. This event of international scale left a big influence in the Buddhist and non-Buddhist world, through its message of world peace and peace of mind. Since then, many cultural exchanges on \"religious solidarity, traditional education and world peace\" have been held at UNESCO.\n\nIn September 2017, the “Association of Chin Kung’s Friends at UNESCO” was established at the UNESCO Headquarters in Paris, aiming to “promote religious unity, restore religious education, and promote traditional culture”.\n\nChin Kung categorizes Buddhism in practice into four different types. First, traditional Buddhism, the teachings of Buddha Shakyamuni, which is very rare in our days. Second, religious Buddhism, which does not represent the real Buddhism but has become recognized by the society, as temples nowadays no longer practice intense teachings and meditation as they once did. Third, academic Buddhist studies as taught in many universities today, where Buddhism is treated purely as a philosophy. This is not comprehensive as the dharma covers everything essential to human beings. Finally, the total degeneration of Buddhism into a cult, which came into being in the late 20th century, and does great harm to society. Chin Kung tries to correct these misunderstandings and lead the public back to the original form of Buddhism as taught by Sakyamuni Buddha.\n\nChin Kung has authored the following books \n\n"}
{"id": "2283984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283984", "title": "FC Tom Tomsk", "text": "FC Tom Tomsk\n\nFC Tom Tomsk () is a Russian football club, based in the Siberian city of Tomsk. The team plays in Trud Stadium (Tomsk).\n\nThe team was previously named \"Burevestnik\" (1957), \"Tomich\" (1958, 1961–1963), \"Sibelektromotor\" (1959–1960), \"Torpedo\" (1964–1967, 1974–1978), \"Tomles\" (1968–1973) and \"Manometr\" (1979–1987). The club is currently named after the river of Tom, where Tomsk is located.\n\nIn the 1990s the team acquired a number of players that would help them begin their ascent out of the Russian Second Division. Viktor Sebelev, Valery Konovalov and Ruslan Akhidzhak were key players of the early part of the decade with Sergei Ageyev, Vyacheslav Vishnevskiy and Dmitry Kudinov strengthening the team as they made a run on the division championship. In 1996, the team finished 2nd in the division, just falling short of promotion to the Russian First Division. In 1997, Tomsk finally achieved a significant goal when they advanced to the First Division with a strong season. However, the team had a long way to go before they would make another run on a division title.\nFollowing promotion, the team acquired a number of new players including Sergei Zhukov, Andrei Talalaev and Mikhail Murashov to help keep the team in the First Division. However, Tomsk suffered a blow when their newly privatised sponsor, Eastern Oil Company (VNK) pulled out and left the team with no sponsor. At this point, advancement was a pipe dream with survival in the tougher division becoming a priority. It was at this point that the team also had to upgrade their stadium to new standards of the league.\n\nThe team played middling football for several years until the arrival of a new sponsor brought in much-needed funds and allowed the team to acquire new players and begin to compete. Third-place finishes in 2002 and 2003 left the team just short of promotion. However, the 2004 season brought new joy and Tomsk finished second in the division, earning promotion to the Russian Premier League for the 2005 season. The 2005 season saw Tomsk survive their first year in top-flight football with a 10th-place finish. In 2006, the team improved its position slightly with an 8th-place finish but in 2007, the club slipped to an 11th-place finish.\n\nThe former jersey sponsor Tomskneft, a local subsidiary of Yukos, has recently been sold to new investors. Today, the team is sponsored by the regional authorities.\n\nThe club's directors disclosed that the club needed to raise funds or it would go out of business due to debts of 200 million roubles in June 2009.\n\nAt the end of the 2018–19 season, they qualified for the Premier League promotion play-offs, but lost to FC Ufa with an aggregate score of 1–2.\n\nLargest Margin of Victory — Dynamo Yakutsk – 9–1 (1995), FC Sakhalin Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk – 8–0 (1993), PFC Spartak Nalchik 8–0 (1998)\n\nLargest Margin of Defeat – FC Dynamo Barnaul 0–7 (1962)\n\nAll time Leading Scorer – Viktor Sebelev – 83 goals in 287 matches (1989–2004)\n\nMost goals in a season – Ruslan Akhidzhak – 18 goals in 21 matches (1994), Denis Kiselyov – 18 goals in 37 matches (2004)\n\n\"As of 15 May 2020, according to the official FNL website\"\n\nA farm club FC Tom-2 Tomsk began competing professionally in the third-tier Russian Professional Football League in the 2014–15 season. The team was dissolved after the 2015–16 season.\n\nHad international caps for their respective countries. Players whose name is listed in bold represented their countries while playing for Tom.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2283986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283986", "title": "Hayes Carll", "text": "Hayes Carll\n\nJoshua Hayes Carll (born January 9, 1976), known professionally as Hayes Carll, is a singer-songwriter. A native of The Woodlands, Texas, his style of roots-oriented songwriting has been noted for its plainspoken poetry and sarcastic humor.\n\nAfter releasing his debut album, \"Flowers & Liquor,\" in 2002, Carll was voted Best New Act by the \"Houston Press\". Since then he's been compared to other Texas songwriters, including Townes Van Zandt, who he said \"ruined me and saved me at the same time.\" He released his second album, \"Little Rock\", in 2004. Produced by R.S. Field, \"Little Rock\" was the first self-released album to reach #1 on the Americana Chart. Carll signed with Lost Highway records in 2006 and released his next album, \"Trouble in Mind\", in 2008. It was ranked #60 of the year by \"The Village Voice\". \"She Left Me For Jesus,\" which appeared on \"Trouble in Mind\", was the Americana Music Association Song of the Year 2008. Four songs by Carll appeared in the 2010 film \"Country Strong\", three of which also appeared on the film's second soundtrack album, \"\".\n\n\"KMAG YOYO & Other American Stories\" was released in 2011. KMAG YOYO is military slang for \"Kiss my ass, guys, you're on your own.\" It received a nomination for Best Album by the Americana Music Association in 2011, and \"Spin\" voted it #3 in the category of \"Best Country/Americana\". \"American Songwriter\" voted the song \"Another Like You\" the #1 song of 2011, and the album #6. \"Rolling Stone\" ranked \"KMAG YOYO\" at #46 of best singles of 2011, and the album #47 on their list of \"50 Country Albums Every Rock Fan Should Own.\" After \"KMAG\"s success, Carll left Lost Highway Records. In 2015 he went into the studio with producer Joe Henry to record Lovers and Leavers then released the album in April 2016 on his own Highway 87 Records to great critical acclaim.\n\nCarll was nominated for a Grammy Awards in 2016 Best Country Song for \"Chances Are.\"\n\nGrammy Nomination for Best Country Song, 2016, for \"Chances Are\" (recorded by Lee Ann Wommack)\n\nAustin Music Awards\n\nAmericana Music Awards\n\n\nSESAC Music Awards\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284014", "title": "Gulf Harbors, Florida", "text": "Gulf Harbors, Florida\n\nGulf Harbors is an unincorporated community urban community in western Pasco County, Florida, United States, near New Port Richey; however, the community has not been a census-designated place since 1970. According to Rand McNally, the latest population estimates for the community is approximately 5,000. Gulf Harbors and its sister communities, the Woodlands, Sea Forest, Sea Colony, Egrets Place and Harbor Colony are deed restricted, waterfront communities and cater to boating and fishing enthusiasts. It used to have a golf course that opened in 1973 and closed in 2011.\n\nThe zip code that serves the community is 34652.\n\nThe area code served by the community is 727.\n\n"}
{"id": "2284015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284015", "title": "Tonalá", "text": "Tonalá\n\nTonalá may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284020", "title": "Rhode Island Route 402", "text": "Rhode Island Route 402\n\nRoute 402 is a numbered state highway running in the U.S. state of Rhode Island. Route 402 is a major corridor through both East Greenwich and North Kingstown, and often locally referred to as Frenchtown Road.\n\nRoute 402 begins in East Greenwich at Route 2 (County Trail) and heads east as a four-lane road through a suburban area. It meets Route 4 (Col. Rodman Highway) just east of here at that highway's exit 7A, then passes under Route 403 without access. The road continues east as it exits Kent County and enters the northern portion of North Kingstown, Washington County, where it meets its eastern terminus at an intersection with US 1 (Post Road).\n\n"}
{"id": "2284041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284041", "title": "William Powell (Canadian politician)", "text": "William Powell (Canadian politician)\n\nWilliam Powell (1907–1992) was Mayor of Hamilton, Canada, from 1980 to 1982.\n\nBorn in St. Helen's, Lancashire, England, his family emigrated to Canada in 1911. While his family returned to England, Powell came to Hamilton in 1921, and eventually found work at Stelco, a steel company based in Hamilton.\n\nIn 1958, he ran as the Co-operative Commonwealth Federation candidate in Hamilton East. He placed third with 21.6% of the vote, losing to incumbent Quinto Martini, a Progressive Conservative. Two years later, he was elected as an alderman in Ward 4. He served in this post until 1970. During his time as alderman, he also retired from his work at Stelco.\n\nIn 1970, he ran for a seat on the Board of Control, but was unsuccessful. Following his defeat, he assumed the Chairmanship of the Hamilton Region Conservation Authority and stayed in that position for a decade.\n\nIn 1980, he defeated incumbent mayor, Jack MacDonald. He served until 1982, when he was defeated by Bob Morrow.\n\nIn 1985, he was appointed as alderman for Ward 3 in order to fill a vacancy.\n"}
{"id": "2284046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284046", "title": "Malita", "text": "Malita\n\nMalita may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2284057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284057", "title": "Rhode Island Route 403", "text": "Rhode Island Route 403\n\nRoute 403, also known as the Quonset Freeway, is a numbered state highway located in Washington County and Kent County, Rhode Island, United States. The route is a nominally east–west limited-access freeway for its entire length. A spur of Rhode Island Route 4, Route 403 serves Davisville and the Quonset Business Park, providing freeway access to Interstate 95 and the northern Providence metropolitan area from the industrial zone. The western terminus of the freeway is at a trumpet interchange with Route 4 in East Greenwich. The route has three unnumbered interchanges along its length, including a junction with U.S. Route 1 in North Kingstown, before terminating at an at-grade intersection with Roger Williams Way and Commerce Park Road in Quonset. Route 403 is the highest numbered route in Rhode Island.\n\nPrior to 2006, Route 403 was a narrow, two-lane road through Davisville. The western terminus of the route was at an interchange with Route 4 and Rhode Island Route 402 in East Greenwich, and the eastern terminus was at U.S. Route 1 in North Kingstown. In order to accommodate increasingly heavy commercial and commuter traffic to and from the Quonset Business Park, the Rhode Island Department of Transportation constructed the Quonset Freeway as an upgraded Route 403. The relocation of the route began in 2000 and was constructed in two phases; Phase 1, a freeway from Quonset to Davisville, opened in June 2006. Phase 2 of the relocation project, which connected the freeway with Route 4, was completed one year ahead of schedule in December 2008.\n\nPrior to 2006, Route 403 was a narrow, two-lane road running for through Davisville, Rhode Island. The road, a spur route of Route 4, connected to Rhode Island Route 402 and Route 4 at its western terminus, and was accessible only from Route 4 southbound. Its eastern terminus was at a grade-separated interchange with U.S. 1. The nominally east–west route followed a northwestern–southeastern route for most of its length. Route 403 was signed on two local roads, Davisville Road and Devil's Foot Road, in the towns of East Greenwich and North Kingstown.\n\nRoute 403's original western terminus was at a complex interchange with Routes 4 and 402 in East Greenwich. Both Routes 402 and 403 were accessible from Exit 7 on Route 4 southbound; there was no access to either route from the northbound lanes of Route 4. After the Exit 7 ramp, Route 403 eastbound crossed over Route 4 and began to head in southeastern direction along Davisville Road. Shortly after its western terminus, Route 403 crossed the Hunt River into Washington County and Davisville, a village in the town of North Kingstown. After intersecting Old Baptist Road, a local route that connects to Route 102, Route 403 began to follow Devil's Foot Road, continuing on its southeastern trajectory. The route crossed Amtrak's Northeast Corridor rail line before turning to head in an almost due east direction, entering the Quonset Business Park. Shortly after passing Devil's Foot Rock, a petrosomatoglyph attributed to the Devil in colonial times, Route 403 passed under U.S. Route 1 (Post Road) and intersected two US 1 access ramps, Davisville Road, and Quonset Road; the latter two roads headed into the business park toward Quonset State Airport and the Quonset container port. Although the mainline of the road continued eastbound as Quonset Road (now Roger Williams Way), Route 403 officially terminated at the intersection with the US 1 access ramps.\n\nSince the completion of the Quonset Freeway in 2008 and the full relocation of Route 403, the old route on Davisville Road and Devil's Foot Road has been unnumbered. Some portions of the road are signed \"To RI 403,\" but there is no indication that RIDOT plans to designate the old route as Rhode Island Route 403A. Route 403's previous alignment was largely unchanged during the construction of the Quonset Freeway; only the interchanges with Routes 4 and 402 in East Greenwich and with US 1 in North Kingstown were altered significantly.\n\nThe Quonset Freeway begins in East Greenwich at Exit 7 of Route 4; southbound, the exit is numbered 7B, as Exit 7A serves Route 402. Unlike Route 402, which is accessible only via Route 4 southbound, Route 403 is accessible from the northbound lanes of Route 4 via the newly constructed Exit 7. Like the original Route 403, the nominally east–west freeway follows a northwestern–southeastern route for much of its length. Shortly after beginning at Route 4, Route 403 crosses over Route 402 and the Hunt River on a single-span bridge, entering the town of North Kingstown. The relocation of Route 403 removed access to Route 402; the freeway now travels over Frenchtown Road without an interchange. While there is no direct link between the two routes, motorists traveling westbound on Route 403 can take the exit for Route 4 south and then access Route 402 from Exit 7A off Route 4.\n\nRoute 403 continues in a southeastern direction before crossing over Amtrak's Northeast Corridor rail line. The freeway begins to closely parallel the railroad before crossing under Devil's Foot Road, the original Route 403, and entering the village of Davisville. Shortly after the overpass, Route 403 turns to head almost due east. The freeway has its first interchange with West Davisville Road; the exit is accessible only from eastbound Route 403, and serves the villages of Davisville and Quidnessett. Closely paralleling Devil's Foot Road, Route 403 continues eastward before interchanging with U.S. Route 1 (Post Road) and Davisville Road; the two roads are served via a single exit. Westbound Route 403 has no direct interchange with either US 1 or Davisville Road; the route's first westbound exit in Quonset is signed as \"To US 1,\" and connects to Post Road via Gate Road, a commercial outlet in Quonset.\n\nShortly after the interchange with US 1, Route 403 begins to head in a southwestern direction. After , Route 403 terminates at a traffic signal with Commerce Park Road, a commercial route that heads north into the business park. The mainline of Route 403 continues eastward as Roger Williams Way (formerly Quonset Road), a four-lane, undivided road that leads to Quonset State Airport.\n\nThe original Route 403 that existed prior to 2006 was numbered in 1973 as a spur route of the newly constructed Route 4. The two-lane, undivided state highway was the main access road to Davisville and Quonset Point from Route 4. Quonset was home to Naval Air Station Quonset Point, a major U.S. naval base, until 1974. After the closure of the base, the Quonset Point region of North Kingstown was converted into an industrial zone and commercial district by the state of Rhode Island; a container port and the Quonset State Airport were also opened for commercial use.\n\nBy the 1980s, more than 12,000 cars were using Route 403 daily to access the business park; the Rhode Island Department of Transportation (RIDOT) estimated that this vehicle volume would exceed 25,000 by 2005. This high vehicle capacity would be dangerous because of Route 403's sharp curves and low speed limit in Davisville. The narrow route through a densely populated region was particularly unsuitable for the high volume of commercial trucks that used it to access Route 4 from the Quonset Business Park and container port. RIDOT began studies on improving the route in 1987, exploring both the widening of the existing route to a four-lane, undivided highway and the construction of a freeway as options. The proposal to widen the existing road was ultimately dropped, as it would less effective at relieving congestion in the region and would require significant demolition of existing structures in Davisville. A freeway alternative to be constructed north of the existing route with more direct access to Route 4 and an eastward expansion beyond US 1 into the Quonset Business Park was selected instead.\n\nConstruction of \"Phase 1\" of the four-lane, limited-access Quonset Freeway began in 2000 with excavation of the route and right-of-way acquisition; the project required the demolition of 13 structures, five commercial and eight residential. Phase 1 included an extension of the highway into the Quonset Business Park and the construction of several overpasses in Quonset, an exit ramp to Gate Road, a full interchange with U.S. Route 1 in North Kingstown, and a partial diamond interchange with West Davisville Road in Davisville. During Phase 1's construction, traffic was maintained on the existing Route 403 (Devil's Foot Road); the only major alteration to the route was the setting of a new eastern terminus of the road at US 1, as the previous terminus was demolished to allow for the construction of the freeway. Phase 1 cost $70 million to complete and was opened to traffic on June 22, 2006. The new freeway was posted with a speed limit of .\n\nFrom 2006 until 2008, while Phase 2 of the relocated Route 403 was constructed, traffic on the newly completed freeway from Quonset to Davisville was redirected onto Davisville Road (the original route alignment), which continued on to the existing terminus at Routes 4 and 402. Traffic was diverted onto the original route alignment after the West Davisville Road interchange, passing over the Amtrak rail tracks via the existing Devil's Foot Road overpass bridge.\n\nConstruction of the $100 million-Phase 2 of the Quonset Freeway began in 2004 and continued until 2008. The project included the construction of new bridges over the Northeast Corridor rail line, Route 402, and Route 4. The existing Route 403 bridge over Route 4 was also demolished as a part of Phase 2. The freeway and ramps from Route 403 west to Route 4 north and from Route 4 south to Route 403 east opened on October 23, 2008. The route was posted with a speed limit of . The final portion of Phase 2, ramps from Route 403 west to Route 4 south and from Route 4 north to Route 403 east, opened in December 2008. As part of the construction of a trumpet interchange with Route 4 in East Greenwich, a new northbound Exit 7 on Route 4 was completed; the original Route 403 was accessible only from Route 4 southbound. All major construction on the freeway was completed in December 2008, one year ahead of schedule; minor projects continued on the relocated route until early 2009.\nExits were renumbered in fall 2018 as part of a statewide conversion to mileage-based exit numbers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284077", "title": "Run Wolf Run", "text": "Run Wolf Run\n\nRun Wolf Run is the debut studio album by the Japanese rock band Guitar Wolf, released in Japan of April 1994.\n\n"}
{"id": "2284089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284089", "title": "Ehjeh Ascher Ehjeh", "text": "Ehjeh Ascher Ehjeh\n\nEhjeh Ascher Ehjeh (Hebrew: אהיה אשר אהיה; \"I am that I am\") is the first EP by Sopor Aeternus & the Ensemble of Shadows, and was released in 1995 as a companion to the album \"Todeswunsch - Sous le soleil de Saturne\". Only 3,000 copies were pressed. The title of the EP is the response God gave to Moses when He was asked for His name, as seen in the Bible (Exodus 3:14.) The cover painting is a detail of \"Saint Jerome Writing\" by Michelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio.\n\nThe EP contains three songs featured on \"Todeswunsch - Sous le soleil de Saturne\" stripped of their backing tracks, bookended by the new song \"anima\" and a demo recording of \"Tanz der Grausamkeit\". \"anima\" began the recurring theme of sexual re-orientation in Anna-Varney Cantodea's lyrics, evident in the concluding line: \"My true self is female how could I ever doubt...\"\n\n\"Ehjeh Ascher Ehjeh\" was re-released alongside \"Voyager - The Jugglers of Jusa\" and the demo tape \"Es reiten die Toten so schnell...\" for the first time as part of the rarities box set \"Like a Corpse Standing in Desperation\", due to costly prices for cheap copies of the EP sold on eBay.\n\n"}
{"id": "2284099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284099", "title": "Robert Merton", "text": "Robert Merton\n\nRobert Merton may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2284103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284103", "title": "Y. R. Studio", "text": "Y. R. Studio\n\nY.R. Studio is an animation studio that has animated episodes of both \"King of the Hill\" and \"The Proud Family\". Its first episode of \"King of the Hill\" was \"Beer and Loathing\", during season 6. Since then, they have animated a handful of episodes, though they are not subcontracted to nearly as much as Plus One Animation and Yeson, the two big studios for that show.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284104", "title": "Dissociated press", "text": "Dissociated press\n\nDissociated press is a parody generator (a computer program that generates nonsensical text). The generated text is based on another text using the Markov chain technique. The name is a play on \"Associated Press\" and the psychiatric term dissociative identity disorder (which may result in somewhat similar word salad during quick switches between personalities).\n\nAn implementation of the algorithm is available in Emacs. Another implementation is available as a Perl module in CPAN, Games::Dissociate.\n\nThe algorithm starts by printing a number of consecutive words (or letters) from the source text. Then it searches the source text for an occurrence of the few last words or letters printed out so far. If multiple occurrences are found, it picks a random one, and proceeds with printing the text following the chosen occurrence. After a predetermined length of text is printed out, the search procedure is repeated for the newly printed ending.\n\nConsidering that words and phrases tend to appear in specific grammatical contexts, the resulting text usually seems correct grammatically, and if the source text is uniform in style, the result appears to be of similar style and subject, and takes some effort on the reader's side to recognize as not genuine. Still, the randomness of the assembly process deprives it of any logical flow - the loosely related parts are connected in a nonsensical way, creating a humorously abstract, random result.\n\nHere is a short example of word-based Dissociated Press applied to the Jargon File:\n\nHere is a short example of letter-based Dissociated Press applied to the same source:\n\nThe dissociated press algorithm is described in HAKMEM (1972) Item #176. The name \"dissociated press\" is first known to have been associated with the Emacs implementation.\n\nBrian Hayes discussed a Travesty algorithm in \"Scientific American\" in November 1983. The article provided a garbled William Faulkner passage:\nHugh Kenner and Joseph O'Rourke of The Johns Hopkins University discussed their frequency table-based Travesty generator for microcomputers in \"BYTE\" in November 1984. The article included the Turbo Pascal source for two versions of the generator, one using Hayes' algorithm and another using Claude Shannon's Hellbat algorithm. Murray Lesser offered a compiled BASIC version in the magazine in July 1985, in September 1985 Peter Wayner offered a version that used tree data structures instead of frequency tables, and in December 1985 Neil J. Rubenking offered a version written in Turbo Pascal that stored frequency information in a B-tree.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284105", "title": "The Burial Plot Bidding War", "text": "The Burial Plot Bidding War\n\nThe Burial Plot Bidding War is the first EP by American metalcore band Every Time I Die. Songs \"Prom Song\" and \"Your Touch Versus Death\" were previously on their 1999 demo tape. The EP was first released on Good Fellow Records in 2000, then reissued by Undecided Records late fall/early winter 2002 with different artwork.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284111", "title": "Jackie Wright", "text": "Jackie Wright\n\nJohn \"Jackie\" Wright (24 September 1904 in Belfast, Ireland – January 1989 in Belfast, Northern Ireland) also nicknamed Little Jackie and Uncle Jackie, was a Northern Irish comedian, best known for being the bald-headed sidekick of Benny Hill on his television programme for fifteen years. Wright's diminutive stature – he was only tall – and Northern Irish accent became assets to the comedy.\n\nBorn in Belfast, the eighth of twelve children to George Wright and Agnes Finlay, Wright first worked as an automobile body assembler, even working in the United States for Cadillac. When the Great Depression took hold, Wright returned to Belfast and then began working in the field of entertainment, first as a musician and then as a supporting comedian.\n\nHe did not enter television until the 1960s, when Hill discovered him and persuaded him to join his troupe. At the time, Hill was ending his stint with the BBC, and starting a 20-year relationship with Thames Television. Hill usually referred to him as \"Little Jackie\" or \"our little Donny Osmond\" on the programme. In many of the show's trademark accelerated-motion scenes, Hill would often pat Wright's bald head rapidly, the motion being accompanied by dubbed-in smacking sounds. Actress Suzy Mandel claimed that \"Jackie Wright was a chain smoker and he would often hide his cigarette in his mouth or behind his back during scenes. In fact, you could often see a little plume of smoke rising behind him if you looked close enough. Benny would slap his head to fan the smoke away.\"\nWright also appeared on the short-lived 1973 programme \"Whoops Baghdad\" starring Frankie Howerd, and had a small role in the musical comedy film \"Three for All\" in 1975. He gained a cult following when edited-down versions of the Benny Hill programmes began airing in syndication in the US in the late 1970s.\n\nWright left the show in 1983 owing to poor health. Five and a half years later, he died at the age of 83 in a Belfast hospital after battling a long, undisclosed illness. At the time of his death, Benny Hill remarked, \"He was a lovely little fella... I'm saddened beyond words.\"\n"}
{"id": "2284116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284116", "title": "Walter Aston, 1st Lord Aston of Forfar", "text": "Walter Aston, 1st Lord Aston of Forfar\n\nWalter Aston, 1st Lord Aston of Forfar (baptised 9 July 1584 – 13 August 1639) was an English courtier and diplomat.\n\nAston was born in Staffordshire, England, about 1584; he was a son of Sir Edward Aston of Tixall and his second wife Anne Lucy Barnes of Charlecote Park. On his father's death (1 February 1597) Edward Coke, the Attorney General, was appointed his guardian, by Lord Burghley, master of the Court of Wards.\n\nIn 1603, at the coronation of King James I of England, Aston was honoured with the Order of the Bath at which Michael Drayton the poet acted as his esquire (Aston had become his patron and between 1602 and 1607 Drayton dedicated five of his works to Sir Walter).\n\nIn 1611, after paying a fee of £1095 Sir Walter was created Baronet of Tixall. In 1618 he was appointed steward of the honour of Tutbury by James I.\n\nIn 1622, Sir Walter was sent to Madrid as the resident ambassador to the Spanish court to negotiate a marriage between Charles, the Prince of Wales, and the Infanta Maria Anna of Spain and also provisions for joint naval operations to patrol and suppress piracy. The Prince of Wales (the future Charles I of England), accompanied by the Duke of Buckingham, arrived at the Spanish court in 1623 unannounced: his overtures to the Infanta were rejected and so the marriage proposal fell through.\n\nDespite the failure of Aston's mission, for his good service to Charles (in opposing the opinions of the ambassador John, Earl of Bristol), Charles was grateful to him and once he became King helped Sir Walter both socially and financially. Charles pardoned Sir Walter for recusancy (while in Spain he had converted to Catholicism in 1623): this allowed him to serve in local government and in 1631 he was made a commissioner for Warwickshire to enforce a fine upon gentry who failed to appear at Charles's coronation to receive a knighthood.\nSir Walter claimed that his expenses in Spain had been ruinous, and cost him £14,000. To make amends Charles arranged that he be elevated to the Scottish peerage on 28 November 1627, as Baron Forfar in county Angus, and gave him a bond of £1000 to buy land in Scotland. Charles also appointed him \"keeper of the king's mulberry garden\" at St James's with an annual income of £60. He also arranged an annual pension of £50 for Sir Walter and the same for his wife. Just over a year later in December 1628 \"a warrant was issued to prepare a bill for a privy seal to pay out of the exchequer £14,000 to cancel his debt\". This largesse did not totally satisfy Lord Forfar who grumbled to Secretary Conway that it would have been better if the barony had been in recognition of \"the ancient house of Tixall\".\n\nLord Forfar returned as envoy to Spain in 1636, and although the dispute over the restoration of the Palatinate to the new Elector Palatine (the Winter King having died) remained intractable, Lord Forfar gave assistance to twenty-seven lawsuits involving English merchants in Spanish courts. His health failed, and he returned to England in the spring (March–May) 1638, but did not recover and died on 13 August 1639. He was buried in St Mary's Church, Stafford. He was succeeded by his son Walter Aston, 2nd Lord Aston of Forfar.\n\nWalter Aston's father died in 1597, leaving him with the Attorney-General Sir Edward Coke as his legal guardian. Aston married Anne Barnes in 1600 without his guardian's permission; Coke subsequently had the marriage dissolved.\n\nIn 1607 Coke gave permission for Aston to marry Gertrude, only daughter of Sir Thomas Sadler of Standon and his second wife Gertrude Markham; Gertude was the grandaughter of the leading Elizabethan statesman Sir Ralph Sadler. They had several children:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284137", "title": "Exhaustion of remedies", "text": "Exhaustion of remedies\n\nThe doctrine of exhaustion of remedies prevents a litigant from seeking a remedy in a new court or jurisdiction until all claims or remedies have been exhausted (pursued as fully as possible) in the original one. The doctrine was originally created by case law based on the principles of comity.\n\nIn the United States, exhaustion of remedies is applied extensively in administrative law. Many cases are handled first by independent agencies of the United States government which have primary responsibility for cases involving the statutes or regulations which the agency administers. \n\nA person's specific rights and duties depend on the federal statute involved, but here is an outline of how the doctrine works in practice. \"Exhaustion of administrative remedies\" requires a person to first go to the agency which administers the statute; this process usually involves filing a petition, then going to a hearing, and finally using the agency's internal appeal process. Once the agency's own procedures are finished, or \"exhausted\", then the aggrieved person can file a complaint in a federal court. But the doctrine of exhaustion of remedies prevents parties from seeking relief in the courts first.\n\nThe same process is required under the laws of many, if not all, states.\n\nExhaustion of remedies frequently affects cases of habeas corpus. Federal law, for example, prevents a petitioner from seeking federal relief where the state claims have not yet been exhausted. Generally, the exhaustion requirement permits state courts a \"...meaningful opportunity to consider the allegations of legal error.\" \n\nThe issue of exhaustion of remedies in a criminal law case was before the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit in \"Harvey v. Horan\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2284152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284152", "title": "Krešimir Ćosić (politician)", "text": "Krešimir Ćosić (politician)\n\nKrešimir Ćosić (born 23 October 1949 in Zagreb, FPR Yugoslavia) is a Croatian soldier and politician.\n\nHe graduated from the Faculty of Electrical Engineering at the University of Zagreb in 1973, and later obtained a doctorate in 1984. Ćosić holds the rank of Lieutenant General of the Croatian Army. He was in active service between 1991 and 2000, when he was retired after signing the Twelve Generals' Letter. Since 2005, he has been leader of the Croatian delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly.\n\nĆosić attained a seat in the Parliament on the party list of Croatian Democratic Union at the 2003 and 2007 parliamentary elections.\n"}
{"id": "2284153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284153", "title": "Walter Aston, 2nd Lord Aston of Forfar", "text": "Walter Aston, 2nd Lord Aston of Forfar\n\nWalter Aston, 2nd Lord Aston of Forfar (6 April 1609 – 23 April 1678) was the second and eldest surviving son of Walter Aston, 1st Lord Aston of Forfar, and Gertrude Sadleir, daughter of Sir Thomas Sadleir of Standon, Hertfordshire, and his second wife Gertrude Markham.\n\nIn 1639, he succeeded his father as Lord Aston of Forfar in the peerage of Scotland, and, in 1660, at the death of his maternal uncle Ralph Sadleir, he inherited the lordship of Standon and other estates in Hertfordshire, England. His principal seat was Tixall in Staffordshire.\n\nLord Aston was a staunch Royalist during the English Civil War. He was present at the Siege of Lichfield in 1643 and the surrender of Oxford; King Charles I expressed his regret at not being able to reward him as he deserved. After the failure of the Royalist cause he was required to compound for his estates and live in private.\n\nHe married in 1629 Lady Mary Weston, daughter of Richard Weston, 1st Earl of Portland, Lord High Treasurer of England, and his first wife Elizabeth Pyncheon. He was an ardent Roman Catholic (his father was a convert to Catholicism who raised all his children in that faith, and his father-in-law was also a Catholic convert) and was the effective leader of the large Catholic community in Staffordshire, although he was unwilling to profess his faith publicly. When he was charged with recusancy in 1675 he wrote indignantly (and quite untruthfully) to the Secretary of State that \"he never went to Mass or joined in any worship particular to the Church of Rome \". No further action was taken against him. \n\n\"The munificent Lord Aston\" was extremely popular locally, and a thousand mourners are said to have attended his funeral: it is notable that no attempt was made to conceal the celebration of Catholic rites at the funeral, even though many of the mourners must have been Protestants. He died on 23 April 1678, and was succeeded by his eldest son Walter Aston, 3rd Lord Aston of Forfar, who inherited his father's role as protector of the Staffordshire Catholic community, and narrowly avoided becoming one of the martyrs of the Popish Plot.\n\nHe was buried at St. Mary's Church, Stafford. His widow did not long survive him: according to her son-in-law Sir John Southcote (who married her daughter Elizabeth), \"she grew melancholy and lost her wits, keeping almost perpetual silence and refusing nourishment.\" They had at least two other daughters, Frances, who married Sir Edward Gage, 1st Baronet, and Anne, who married Henry Somerset.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284155", "title": "The New Guy", "text": "The New Guy\n\nThe New Guy is a 2002 American teen comedy film directed by Ed Decter, written by David Kendall and starring DJ Qualls and Eliza Dushku.\n\nThe film tells the story of high school loser Dizzy Harrison (Qualls) who gets himself expelled so that he can move schools and reinvent himself. Learning how to be cool from a prison inmate, he renames himself Gil Harris and is quick to make new friends and soon gains respect from jocks and geeks alike. He begins dating popular girl Danielle (Dushku) and unites a once-divided school, also greatly improving its football team. Eventually, Gil has to face his demons from his old school when they face each other in a football game. The film received generally negative reviews, but was a modest box office success.\n\nThe film begins with prison inmate Luther speaking directly to the camera to an unseen individual, telling the story of Dizzy Gillespie Harrison, an 18-year-old nerdy high school senior in Austin, Texas. Dizzy is friends with Nora, Kirk, and Glen, who together started a funk rock band called \"Suburban Funk\" and are addicted to video games. They attend Rocky Creek High School, where Dizzy is picked on by everyone, especially star football player Barclay. After sex symbol Tina Osgood touches his arm, causing him to have an erection and embarrassing him as the jocks belittle him, his white briefs were yanked from underneath his pants and placed around his head. The school librarian \"breaks\" his penis after Dizzy refuses to \"hand\" over the \"weapon\" to her. Dizzy is misdiagnosed with Tourette's syndrome; he is then placed on medication by the school counselor who advises his father to spend every moment possible with him. While at the mall's food court, the heavily-medicated Dizzy makes a fool of himself at a church revival and gets arrested.\n\nIn jail, Dizzy meets Luther, who turns out to be a sympathetic ex-victim who makes it his goal to teach him how to be cool. In an attempt to wipe the slate clean, Dizzy gets himself expelled from his old high school, then undergoes a makeover with the help of the prison inmates and guards. Changing his name to \"Gil Harris\", he enrolls at East Highland High and makes an impression by being dropped off in a prison van in restraints and beating up the school bully, Connor.\n\nThe action has the intended effect, and head cheerleader Danielle welcomes the newcomer to school. Her friend Courtney invites Dizzy to a party and through a mishap, Dizzy gives Courtney the impression that he has blown her off. Using a photo given to him by the prison inmates and help from his old friends, Dizzy manages to escape the party with his reputation intact. Upon returning home, however, he finds his father has agreed to sell his house and quit work to supervise him, which results in the pair living in a trailer.\n\nDanielle asks Dizzy to encourage the school to go to see the football team play, Dizzy, referencing General Patton and Braveheart, gives an impassioned speech, inspiring the team to win their first game in years. He is soon enlisted by the coach and principal to plan the school's homecoming dance, and becomes imbued with school spirit, shedding his bad boy image. Danielle breaks up with Connor and starts dating Dizzy.\n\nHowever, Dizzy and Gil are fast becoming too big for one body. When Nora berates Dizzy for becoming the same person he once hated, he uses his newfound popularity to confront Connor. Dizzy and Danielle spur the students to reunite, and the lines dividing the different cliques are broken. With a new philosophy, the school football team wins more games and bullying becomes a thing of the past. Reaching the state championship, where they play Rocky Creek, Dizzy's antics on the sideline cost Rocky Creek the game, although Barclay recognizes his old punching bag. East Highland High celebrates and Dizzy and Danielle have sex. At school the next day, Barclay attempts to beat up Dizzy, and is in turn attacked by the entire student body. After the attack, Connor helps up Barclay from the ground, telling him he wants to know what he knows about Dizzy.\n\nThe homecoming dance, which Dizzy's funk band is supposed to play, is crashed by the students of Rocky Creek. Barclay and Connor, who have joined forces to set a trap for Dizzy, play an embarrassing video of the librarian incident. However, Luther and the other inmates arrive to save Dizzy, tying up the two bullies. Nora admits longstanding feelings for Glen, and Danielle reveals to Dizzy that she was also a nerd growing up. She forgives him for hiding who he was and they kiss.\n\nLuther ends the film, and the man he is talking to is revealed to be David Hasselhoff. In a mid-credits scene, Dizzy and Danielle mount a horse and ride off into the sunset together.\n\n\n\nThe film was shot in Austin and around Austin (San Marcos, Elgin, and Del Valle) utilized Texas State University, Driskell Hotel, and an FYE (retailer) at Lakeline Mall between October 23, 2000 to January 12, 2001.\n\nIn the 92-minute unrated cut, Dizzy appears to be a \"child of divorce.\" He once had a mother named Beth Anne but she left the family while Dizzy was doing his \"godfather of soul\" routine. Miss Kiki Pierce talks about Dizzy's excessive masturbation and becomes his stepmother in the uncensored version (unlike the PG-13 version).\n\nAccording to the storyline in the uncensored version, Gil Harris had apparently murdered a guy in Rhode Island before being sent off to prison while no back story was made for the name in the theatrical version.\n\nRotten Tomatoes gives the film a score of 7% based on 97 reviews with the consensus: \"Incoherent, silly, and unoriginal, \"The New Guy\" offers up the same old teen gross-out comedy cliches.\" On Metacritic, the film has a 24% rating, indicating \"generally unfavorable reviews\" based on reviews from 23 critics. Derek Armstrong of allmovie described it as one of the dumbest and most derivative teen comedies in years and gave the film his lowest star rating. He later stated that it \"was on a par with Citizen Kane compared to .\"\n\nThe film grossed $31,167,388 worldwide. against a $13 million production budget.\n\n\nSongs that were featured in the film but do not appear on the soundtrack include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2284160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284160", "title": "Fighter Maker", "text": "Fighter Maker\n\nFighter Maker is a series of games for PlayStation consoles and Microsoft Windows. It features a robust character creation system, letting players even create animations. There are two versions of the games, Fighter Maker (\"FM\" series) and 2D Fighter Maker (\"2DFM\" series).\n\nPart of Agetec Inc.'s Designer Series, Fighter Maker is 3D-based and allows users to create custom moves for their fighters. Despite the unique concept, the game received very bad reviews as there was little to do once a fighter had been created. The Official PlayStation Magazine gave the game 3/10, saying that the animation was rough, and that it was \"not one eighth as interesting as it sounds\".\n\nThe Japanese edition of the first \"FM\" game is also known for having one licensed character, \"Street Fighter EX\"s Skullomania, complete with the original move list.\n\nIGN commented that \"When you actually put the character into the game, controls are pretty tight and solid\", and concluded by saying that \"Fighter Maker is one of the most unique software packages on the PlayStation. I'm guessing we're going to see a ton of websites dedicated to characters gamers have created, uploaded with the handy-dandy DexDrive. The competition between friends is going to be fierce. Who can create the coolest, most utilitarian character in the game?\"\n\nFighter Maker 2 (\"FM2\") for the PS2 was another entry in the Designer Series from Agetec Inc. It was released in November 2002. It is similar to the original, but with more advancements in character design, movement, and attacks. As with the first, the game was met with lukewarm reviews, mainly due to its cumbersome interface and the lack of bells and whistles that were featured in most fighting games at the time.\n\nThe Music was composed by the U.K. band INTELLIGENTSIA, who also created the in-game FX; MIRAI, one of the band's 2 members, is a playable character in the game.\n\nGamePro said that \"the freedom in creating move animations is immense.\" PSM said \"For those who've thought they could build a game with the right tools, this is a fine toolbox. Aspiring fighter makers are warned, though - it's also an unforgiving school.\"\n\n2D Fighter Maker 95 (\"FM95\") was released for Windows prior to ASCII's departure from gaming. Unlike its PlayStation counterparts, this version focused on 2D-style gameplay, allowing the user to create and import their own characters, sounds and graphics into the engine, allowing for far more flexibility and range than the PS versions. The program was pirated and fan translated to English and released on the Internet, where it found a large following amongst dojin game makers and the M.U.G.E.N. community.\n\n2D Fighter Maker 2nd (\"FM2K\") was released by ASCII's successor company, Enterbrain. An update to the original version, FM2K allowed for a greater amount of expansion and extension than FM95, revising much of the original engine to allow more options while adding a menu-based system for clarity. As with the previous version, it became wildly popular amongst the dojin communities in Japan. Again, piracy and a fan translation followed, though the second version has yet to meet with the success of the first, primarily due to the large amount of M.U.G.E.N. communities already in operation as well as the incomplete translation of the FM2K software and documentation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2284162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284162", "title": "Fourth Street Live!", "text": "Fourth Street Live!\n\nFourth Street Live! is a entertainment and retail complex located on 4th Street, between Liberty and Muhammad Ali Boulevard, in Downtown Louisville, Kentucky. It is owned and was developed by the Cordish Company; it was designed by Louisville architects, Bravura Corporation. Fourth Street Live! first opened to the public on June 1, 2004, and all stores were completed for the grand opening on October 30, 2004. City planners hoped that the district would attract further commercial business development while providing an attractive entertainment venue for the city's hotel and tourist business as well as the local population.\n\nRestaurants and entertainment venues in the complex include Gordon Biersch Brewing Company, Hard Rock Cafe, T.G.I. Friday's, Birracibo, The Sports & Social Club (bowling alley and restaurant), Tavern on 4th street, The Fudgery and the new bourbon raw bar.\n\nFourth Street Live! also has a variety of bars and nightclubs including Tavern on Fourth, The Sports & Social Club, Howl at the Moon, and PBR Louisville.\n\nA mall-style food court is also located in the complex with restaurants like Subway, and Philly Station. There are also retail stores including Footlocker and T-Mobile.\n\nTraffic on 4th Street through the complex is usually closed for large public gatherings such as music concerts and other events.\n\nFourth Street Live! began as a downtown revitalization project to redesign and modernize the former \"Louisville Galleria\", a similar but unsuccessful project opened in the early 1980s with the same goals of revitalizing downtown. The Galleria, in turn, had been built on the site of the \"River City Mall\", which opened in 1973, also with similar goals of revitalizing downtown. Fourth Street itself had long been the main shopping and entertainment destination in Downtown Louisville.\n\nThe idea of turning Fourth Street into a pedestrian mall actually dates back to 1943, when mayor Wilson W. Wyatt suggested the idea. Proposals were drafted over the years but funding for the $1.5 million River City Mall project was not secured until 1971. The Mall originally stretched all the way from Liberty to Broadway, and was initially successful, but over the years vehicular traffic was slowly reintroduced and the mall scaled back.\n\nOn February 16, 2007, the Louisville Convention & Visitors Bureau opened its new Visitor Information Center at the North entrance to Fourth Street Live. The new center totals nearly , and includes two permanent exhibits, where visitors can learn about the stories of two of Kentucky's most famous icons: Kentucky Bourbon and Colonel Harland Sanders, founder of Kentucky Fried Chicken. The center will also supply information to outside passersby via a high-tech video wall that will run video on different cultural events and attractions.\n\nOn May 8, 2017, the Cordish Company announced that it will expand the district with the addition of Spark Louisville, a new collaborative workspace coming in 2018.\n\nSome events held at Fourth Street Live! in the past have included national acts in concert, such as Kid Rock, 3 Doors Down, O.A.R., Sister Hazel, VHS or Beta, Goo Goo Dolls, Tracy Lawrence, Jason Michael Carroll, Jake Owen, Jason Aldean, Eric Church, Clay Walker, Three Dog Night, !Smack Talk!, Phil Vassar, Buddy Jewell, Emerson Drive, Finger Eleven, The Marshall Tucker Band, Little Texas, Blue October, Shiny Toy Guns, Gavin Degraw, Violent Femmes, Gretchen Wilson, Justin Bieber The Big Band Theory-USA and many others.\n\nThe University of Louisville's annual \"Run for the L of It\" 5K begins and ends at Fourth Street Live. Also, the finish line of the Louisville Ironman Triathlon, which debuted in 2007, is located at Fourth Street Live. The Venue also holds annual events celebrating the Kentucky Derby and was the \"Cup Village\" when Louisville hosted the 2008 Ryder Cup and often holds pep rallies and celebrations for the University of Louisville's athletic teams including for the teams that made the 2005 Final Four, 2007 Orange Bowl, and the 2007 College World Series. During the Summer, Fourth Street Live hosts Summer Concert Series, which is a series of concerts featuring top national acts. A Mardi Gras parade, Halloween trick-or-treating, and a New Year's Eve celebration are other annual events which are popular at the venue.\n\nThe venue will also be part of the city's annual Holiday extravaganza, Holiday in the City.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284163", "title": "Wide Angle (TV program)", "text": "Wide Angle (TV program)\n\nWide Angle is an American documentary television program produced by Thirteen/WNET New York for broadcast on PBS and for worldwide distribution. The weekly one-hour program covered international current affairs and was last hosted by veteran journalist Aaron Brown. \"Wide Angle\" began broadcasting on PBS in 2002, and aimed to expand the awareness and understanding of Americans about the changing world in which they live. It was the only documentary program on American television devoted exclusively to reporting in-depth on international issues. Following its eighth and final season it was nominated for a 2010 International Documentary Association Continuing Series award.\n\n\"Wide Angle\" programs consist of long-form, character-driven documentaries exploring pressing international issues through human stories, often followed by an interview with a foreign policy expert to connect the films’ themes to American concerns. The program completed its eighth season in 2009, and in that time it had produced more than 60 films in over 50 countries.\n\n\"Wide Angle\" also produced a companion website, still extant, and additional educational materials for each film. The program's website includes background information on the issues from the films, interactive features, exclusive video and audio, and full streaming versions of many programs. Additional educational materials are distributed to high schools and colleges. In 2006, \"Wide Angle\"'s online \"Window into Global History\" project earned the Goldman Sachs Foundation's Prize for Excellence in International Education.\n\nPrevious anchors for the program include Bill Moyers, former Assistant Secretary of State James Rubin, Mishal Husain, and Daljit Dhaliwal. Previous interview guests include Senator Hillary Clinton, UN Deputy Secretary-General Mark Malloch Brown, Mexico’s former Foreign Minister Jorge Castañeda, former Ugandan government minister Betty Oyella Bigombe, Nobel Prize Laureates Joseph E. Stiglitz and Amartya Sen, WHO Director-General Margaret Chan, Women for Women International CEO Zainab Salbi, \"New York Times\" columnist Nicholas Kristof, writer Arundhati Roy and former U.S. Secretaries of State George Mitchell and James A. Baker III.\n\nThe July 2002 pilot episode \"Saddam’s Ultimate Solution\" was hosted by former Assistant Secretary of State and chief State Department spokesman James Rubin. It focused on Saddam Hussein’s biological and chemical weapons and the wider threat they imply. In a host interview broadcast immediately following the episode, resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute Richard Perle stated that \"the thing that is brought home so clearly in this film is the connection among terrorist organizations now implicating Saddam Hussein directly with Al Qaeda\".\n\n\"Wide Angle\" programs have won numerous awards, including an Emmy Award, the Sigma Delta Chi Award, the Chicago International Television Hugo award, the Gabriel Award, several top awards from the South Asian Journalists Association (SAJA), citations from the Overseas Press Club, and 22 Cine Golden Eagle awards.\n\n\"The New York Times\" had a mixed review of the first program \"Saddam’s Ultimate Solution\", especially concerning the interview of Richard Perle by host James Rubin: \n\nIn December 2008, \"Wide Angle\" launched, \"Focal Point\", a new online-exclusive documentary program. Like \"Wide Angle\", \"Focal Point\" offers a deeper understanding of forces shaping the world today through compelling human stories, with \"Focal Point\" providing a venue for shorter, less formal pieces.\n\nIn the first episode of \"Focal Point\", \"From Jihad to Rehab\", Canadian journalist Nancy Durham reports from a rehabilitation center in Saudi Arabia, where art therapy and religious re-education are being used to reform militant jihadists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284166", "title": "Criss Angel Mindfreak", "text": "Criss Angel Mindfreak\n\nCriss Angel: Mindfreak is an American reality TV show that aired on A&E from 2005 to 2010. It centers on stunts and street magic acts by magician Criss Angel.\n\nThe comedy show \"Mad TV\" spoofed the series. Criss Angel was portrayed by Michael McDonald.\n\nOn the comedy show \"Impractical Jokers\", the guys have to give away broadway tickets to fake shows. Murr has to give away a show called Piss Angel Bathroom Magic, an obvious parody of the series.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284180", "title": "Down Your Way", "text": "Down Your Way\n\nDown Your Way was a BBC radio series which ran from 29 December 1946 to 1992, originally on the Home Service, later on BBC Radio 4, usually being broadcast on Sunday afternoons. It visited towns around the United Kingdom, spoke to residents and played their choice of music. \n\nIt was initially hosted by Stewart MacPherson, who presented the first twelve shows, but in 1947, after brief hosting spells by Lionel Gamlin and Wynford Vaughan-Thomas, Richard Dimbleby took over its presentation until 1955, then Franklin Engelmann until his death in 1972 when Brian Johnston took over until 1987. In 1975, despite then being the second most popular programme on radio, it was taken off the air as an 'economy measure'. It was subsequently reinstated, after a storm of popular protest.\n\nFrom 1987 until its demise in 1992 it had a different celebrity host every week, who would visit a place of significance in their own liveseffectively turning it into 'Down My Way' and blending it into the then-emerging celebrity culture.\n\nIts well-remembered signature tune was \"Horse Guards, Whitehall\" by Haydn Wood.\n\nIn the 1980s the show was satirised on the \"Kenny Everett Television Show\" as \"Up Your Way\", a saccharine television version presented by \"Verity Treacle\". In 1984, it was parodied by \"Radio Active\" as \"Round Your Parts\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2284188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284188", "title": ".17 HMR", "text": ".17 HMR\n\n.17 Hornady Magnum Rimfire, commonly known as the .17 HMR, is a rimfire rifle cartridge developed by Littleman in 2002. It was developed by necking down a .22 Magnum case to take a .17 caliber (4.5 mm) projectile. Commonly loaded with a 17 grain (1.1 g) projectile, it can deliver muzzle velocities in excess of 775 m/s (2,650 ft/s).\n\nThe .17 HMR round is similar to rounds developed by dedicated rimfire wildcatters who worked to create a rimfire cartridge with an exceptionally flat trajectory. These wildcatters were seeking to match the ballistics of the obsolete 5 mm Remington Rimfire Magnum, which was made from 1970 to 1974, and was to that point the fastest rimfire cartridge ever produced. With 5 mm diameter barrels and bullets being virtually unavailable at the time (the 5mm RMR was the last commercial 5 mm round until the 2004 release of the centerfire .204 Ruger), the commercially available .17 caliber became their bullet of choice. The .22 Winchester Magnum Rimfire was the logical parent case, rather than 5mm RMR (with its unique case head size, which requires a significantly different bolt and magazine), because it was commonly available, and it is a far larger and stronger case than the next largest, the .22 Long Rifle. The .17 caliber wildcats not only met, but far exceeded the 5mm RMR's velocities and flat trajectory. The accuracy of these cartridges was also quite good. However, the downrange energy of the 5mm RMR is superior to both .22 WMR and .17 HMR, so there is still potential in the 5mm rimfire for wildcatters.\n\nHornady, in conjunction with Marlin Firearms and Sturm, Ruger (manufacturers in the rimfire rifle market), followed much the same path. With the .22 WMR case as the starting point, a simple barrel change was sufficient for most .22 WMR firearms to chamber the new cartridge. In 2002 the first rifles and ammunition began appearing on the market. While the ammunition was relatively expensive due to the high-performance .17 caliber bullets used, it was still cheaper than most centerfire ammunition. By 2004 CCI, Federal Cartridge and Remington had each introduced .17 HMR ammunition offerings.\n\nCartridges for .17 HMR come with bullets that weigh , , and , and come in designs such as plastic-tipped bullets, hollow points, soft points, and FMJs. The terminal ballistics of the lightweight expanding bullets limit the .17 HMR to small game animals and varmints. .17 HMR ammunition is less common and more expensive than the .22 caliber rimfire rounds, but this is changing as the popularity of .17 HMR rifles gathers momentum.\nA growing number of companies offer .17 HMR ammunition. CCI Ammunition loads all of the .17 HMR ammunition for the CCI, Federal Cartridge, Hornady, and Remington brands. However, the ammunition is loaded with different bullets to different specifications. Ammunition is also available from Winchester, PMC and Sellier & Bellot.\n\nCiting safety concerns about the round's use in semi-automatic firearms, Remington issued a product safety warning and recall notice.\n\nFollowing the success of the .17 HMR, the .17 Hornady Mach 2 was introduced in early 2004. The .17 HM2 is based on the .22 LR (slightly shorter in case length) case necked down to .17 caliber using the same bullet as the HMR but at a velocity of approximately in the polymer tip loading.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284190", "title": "Arch Allies: Live at Riverport", "text": "Arch Allies: Live at Riverport\n\nArch Allies is a live album recorded by REO Speedwagon and Styx at Riverport Amphitheatre (now Hollywood Casino Amphitheater) in Maryland Heights, Missouri, a suburb of St. Louis. It was released on September 26, 2000 by Sanctuary Records, and a single DVD was also released on November 7, 2000.\n\nEach band also released single live albums containing only their own tracks from this album. This includes songs cut from the combined release. The Styx songs were released alone as \"\" (also including the songs Everything Is Cool and Lorelei) and the REO Speedwagon songs (including Keep Pushin', Tough Guys and That Ain't Love) were released as \"Live Plus\" and \"Extended Versions\".\n\nAccording to REO Speedwagon vocalist/rhythm guitarist Kevin Cronin, the tour sampled on the album was the first time REO Speedwagon and Styx had ever played together, and \"We hit it off so well, we ended up putting on a double live CD together. It’s just been a tremendous synergy between the bands on a personal level and on a musical level as well. Tommy Shaw and I have become really good friends.\"\n\nAllmusic gave the video release a rave review, opining that both bands gave strong performances and gel together \"surprisingly well\" in the collaborative jam which ends the album. The review especially praised the performances of new Styx members Glen Burtnik, Todd Sucherman, and Lawrence Gowan, comparing the Styx lineup favorably to that of the band's commercial heyday.\n\nStyx \n\nREO Speedwagon\n\n"}
{"id": "2284191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284191", "title": "Walter Aston, 3rd Lord Aston of Forfar", "text": "Walter Aston, 3rd Lord Aston of Forfar\n\nWalter Aston, 3rd Lord Aston of Forfar (1633 – 20 November 1714) was the eldest son of Walter Aston, 2nd Lord Aston of Forfar, and his wife Lady Mary Weston, daughter of Richard Weston, 1st Earl of Portland. He is best remembered today as a fortunate survivor of the Popish Plot.\n\nHe succeeded his father as Lord Aston of Forfar in the peerage of Scotland in 1678; he resided mainly at Tixall in Staffordshire.\n\nHe was twice married, first marrying Eleanor Blount Knightley of Soddington in Worcestershire, England, widow of Robert Knightley, and daughter of Sir Walter Blount, 1st Baronet, and his wife Elizabeth Wylde, daughter of George Wylde, by whom he had five surviving children, and who died in 1674. He married secondly Catherine Gage, daughter of Sir Thomas Gage, 2nd Baronet of Firle in Sussex, who died in 1720.\n\nBy Elizabeth he had four sons who reached adulthood, Edward, Francis, Walter, 4th Lord Aston and Charles, and one daughter Mary, who never married. Edward and Francis predeceased their father and Walter succeeded to the title.\n\nLike his father, he was an ardent Roman Catholic, and succeeded to his father's role as the effective leader of the large Catholic community in Staffordshire. As such, he was a principal target of informers during the Popish Plot. His former steward Stephen Dugdale, whom he had dismissed for stealing money to pay his gambling debts, turned on him and gave perjured evidence which sent Aston to the Tower of London in 1679 on charges of conspiracy to kill King Charles II Dugdale was a charming, educated and plausible man, who made a noticeably different impression on the Government from the unsavoury parade of previous informers like Titus Oates, some of whom, like Thomas Dangerfield, were notorious criminals. Even King Charles, who had up to then been entirely sceptical about the Plot, was so impressed by Dugdale that \"he began to think there was somewhat in it\".\n\nIn the event it proved impossible to find a second witness to the charge of treason against Lord Aston, and even at the height of the Plot hysteria, the judges scrupulously observed the law that a charge of treason required two witnesses. Aston was never brought to trial, and was released on bail in the summer of 1680. He never returned to prison.\n\nUnder the Catholic King James II he was in favour at Court, and served as Lord Lieutenant of Staffordshire from 1687 to 1689. After the Glorious Revolution, he remained loyal to James, but no action was taken against him as a result. In his last years he felt sufficiently secure in his position to complain about his exclusion, on the grounds of his religion, from the House of Lords. As his peerage was a Scots title he argued that he should be one of the Scottish representative peers who took their seats in the unified House of Lords after the Act of Union 1707, but his claim to be entitled to sit in the Lords was rejected.\n\nHe died in 1714, and was succeeded by his third but eldest surviving son Walter Aston, 4th Lord Aston of Forfar. A younger son, Charles Aston, served with the British Army in Ireland and was killed in action at the Battle of the Boyne, 1 July 1690.\n\n"}
{"id": "2284197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284197", "title": ".17 Rimfire", "text": ".17 Rimfire\n\n.17 Rimfire may refer to a number of different cartridges or firearms that use them. The cartridges all use rimfire cases and fire .17 inch (4.5 mm) bullets. While .17 caliber airguns generally use .177 inch projectiles (4.50 mm), .17 caliber firearms, both rimfire and centerfire, generally measure .172 inch (4.37 mm).\n\n.17 Rimfire cartridges include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2284198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284198", "title": "Superman (The Clique song)", "text": "Superman (The Clique song)\n\n\"Superman\" is a 1969 song by the Texas band The Clique, made more famous in 1986 when it was recorded by R.E.M.\n\nIt was written by Mitchell Bottler and Gary Zekley and originally released as the b-side to The Clique's hit \"Sugar on Sunday\".\n\nR.E.M. recorded it for their fourth album, \"Lifes Rich Pageant\". It was released as a single and received a fair amount of radio play, but did not chart on the main US singles chart, though it did reach #17 on \"Billboard\" magazine's Mainstream Rock Tracks chart.\n\nLead singer Michael Stipe was not as enthusiastic about recording the song as the other band members were, and as a result bassist Mike Mills debuted on lead vocals with Stipe providing background.\n\nThe B-side to the single, a surf rock instrumental entitled \"White Tornado\", was first recorded by the band in 1981. The version used on the single was recorded in January, 1984, during the \"Reckoning\" sessions, but remained unreleased until \"Superman.\"\n\nThe scratchy spoken intro is attributed to a Japanese pull-string Godzilla doll. Translated loosely from the Japanese, it says, \"This is a special news report. Godzilla has been sighted in Tokyo Bay. The attack on it by the Self-Defense Force has been useless. He is heading towards the city. Aaaaaaaaagh...\"\n\nSongwriter Zekley joined R.E.M. on stage during a performance at Northern Illinois University in De Kalb, Illinois, on October 21, 1986.\n\nThe R.E.M. version was played during the \"Tempus, Anyone?\" episode (3x14) of \"\".\n\nAll songs written by Bill Berry, Peter Buck, Mike Mills, and Michael Stipe unless otherwise indicated.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284205", "title": "Walter Aston, 4th Lord Aston of Forfar", "text": "Walter Aston, 4th Lord Aston of Forfar\n\nWalter Aston, 4th Lord Aston of Forfar (1660 or 1661 – 4 April 1748) was the eldest surviving son of Walter Aston, 3rd Lord Aston of Forfar, and his first wife Eleanor Blount of Soddington, daughter of Sir Walter Blount, 1st Baronet.\n\nIn 1714, he succeeded his father as Lord Aston of Forfar in the peerage of Scotland. Despite the title they were a Staffordshire family whose seat was at Tixall.\n\nHe married Lady Mary Howard, daughter of Lord Thomas Howard and Mary Savile, and sister of Thomas Howard, 8th Duke of Norfolk and Edward Howard, 9th Duke of Norfolk, by whom he had five sons and six daughters, most of whom died in infancy. She died in 1723 during the birth of their 11th child, James, who would succeed him as Lord Aston of Forfar. Two daughters also reached adult life: Margaret, who became a nun, and Catherine, who married Edward Weld of Lulworth Castle, Dorset. The Astons, like the Howards, were nearly all staunch Roman Catholics: during the outbreak of anti-Catholic hysteria called the Popish Plot, Walter's father was charged with treason and imprisoned in the Tower of London.\n\nHe commissioned a painting of himself, his wife, and seven of their children by Richard van Bleeck. The painting, which survives, was not completed until two years after Lady Aston's death.\n\nHe died 4 April 1748, and was succeeded by his fifth but only surviving son James Aston, 5th Lord Aston of Forfar.\n\n"}
{"id": "2284208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284208", "title": "Dunn's River Falls", "text": "Dunn's River Falls\n\nDunn's River Falls is a famous waterfall near Ocho Rios, Jamaica and a major Caribbean tourist attraction that receives thousands of visitors each year.\n\nAt about high and long, the waterfalls are terraced like giant natural stairs though some incorporate man-made improvements. Several small lagoons are interspersed among the vertical sections of the falls.\n\nThe falls empty into the Caribbean Sea at the western end of a white-sand beach.\n\nClimbing the waterfalls is a popular tourist activity and is often, but not exclusively, performed with the help of tour guides from the park. It takes about 1-1.5 hours to climb with short breaks for photographs and video recordings taken by the guides. There are also stairs alongside of the falls for those who do not want to get wet or are unable to manage the rocky, uneven terrain of the actual waterfall.\n\nThe falls are bordered by lush, green vegetation that shades the area from the sun and keeps the area, and climbers, cool. The climb can be relatively hard so is often undertaken as a hand-holding human chain led by a guide to make it easier.\n\nThe falls were the location where the Battle of Las Chorreras took place in 1657, when the British defeated a Spanish expeditionary force from Cuba. A plaque placed at the bottom of the falls by the Jamaican Historical Society commemorates the event (see photo).\n\nDunn’s River, a short stream dropping only from its source to the sea, is fed by spring water rich with calcium carbonate and deposits travertine forming a sequence of tufa terraces. Such waterfalls are described by geologists as \"a living phenomenon\" because they are continuously rebuilt by the sediments in spring water.\n\nDunn's River Falls is one of the very few travertine waterfalls in the world that empties directly into the sea.\n"}
{"id": "2284219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284219", "title": "Ghurid dynasty", "text": "Ghurid dynasty\n\nThe Ghurids or Ghorids (; self-designation: , \"Shansabānī\") were a dynasty of Iranian descent from the Ghor region of present-day central Afghanistan, but the exact ethnic origin is uncertain. The dynasty converted to Sunni Islam from Buddhism, after the conquest of Ghor by the Ghaznavid sultan Mahmud of Ghazni in 1011. The dynasty overthrew the Ghaznavid Empire in 1186 when Sultan Mu'izz ad-Din Muhammad of Ghor conquered the last Ghaznavid capital of Lahore.\n\nAt their zenith, the Ghurid empire encompassed Khorasan in the west and reached northern India as far as Bengal in the east. Their first capital was Firozkoh in Mandesh, Ghor, which was later replaced by Herat, and finally Ghazna. The Ghurids were patrons of Persian culture and heritage.\n\nAbu Ali ibn Muhammad (reigned 1011–1035) was the first Muslim king of the Ghurid dynasty to construct mosques and Islamic schools in Ghor.\n\nThe Ghurids were succeeded in Khorasan and Persia by the Khwarazmian dynasty, and in northern India by the Mamluk dynasty of the Delhi Sultanate.\n\nIn the 19th century some European scholars, such as Mountstuart Elphinstone, favoured the idea that the Ghurid dynasty relate to today's Pashtun people but this is generally rejected by modern scholarship and, as explained by Morgenstierne in the Encyclopaedia of Islam, is for \"various reasons very improbable\". Instead, the consensus in modern scholarship (incl. Morgenstierne, Bosworth, Dupree, Gibb, Ghirshman, Longworth Dames and others) holds that the dynasty was most likely of Tajik origin. Bosworth further points out that the actual name of the Ghurid family, \"Āl-e Šansab\" (Persianized: \"Šansabānī\"), is the Arabic pronunciation of the originally Middle Persian name \"Wišnasp\".\n\nThe Ghuristan region remained primarily populated by Buddhists till the 12th century. It was then Islamised and gave rise to the Ghurids.\n\nThe Ghurids' native language was apparently different from their court language Persian. Abu'l-Fadl Bayhaqi, the famous historian of the Ghaznavid era, wrote on page 117 in his book Tarikh-i Bayhaqi: \"Sultan Mas'ud I of Ghazni left for Ghoristan and sent his learned companion with two people from Ghor as interpreters between this person and the people of that region.\" However, like the Samanids and Ghaznavids, the Ghurids were great patrons of Persian literature, poetry, and culture, and promoted these in their courts as their own. Contemporary book writers refer to them as the \"Persianized Ghurids\".\n\nThere is nothing to confirm the recent surmise that the inhabitants of Ghor were originally Pashto-speaking, and claims of the existence of Pashto poetry (as in Pata Khazana) from the Ghurid period are unsubstantiated.\n\nA certain Ghurid prince named Amir Banji, was the ruler of Ghor and ancestor of the medieval Ghurid rulers. His rule was legitimized by the Abbasid caliph Harun al-Rashid.\nBefore the mid-12th century, the Ghurids had been bound to the Ghaznavids and Seljuks for about 150 years. Beginning in the mid-12th century, Ghor expressed its independence from the Ghaznavid Empire. In 1149 the Ghaznavid ruler Bahram-Shah of Ghazna poisoned a local Ghurid leader, Qutb al-Din Muhammad, who had taken refuge in the city of Ghazna after having a quarrel with his brother Sayf al-Din Suri. In revenge, Sayf marched towards Ghazna and defeated Bahram-Shah. However, one later year, Bahram returned and scored a decisive victory against Sayf, who was shortly captured and crucified at Pul-i Yak Taq. Baha al-Din Sam I, another brother of Sayf, set out to avenge the death of his two brothers, but died of natural causes before he could reach Ghazna. Ala al-Din Husayn, one of the youngest of Sayf's brothers and newly crowned Ghurid king, also set out to avenge the death of his two brothers. He managed to defeat Bahram-Shah, and then had Ghazna sacked and burned and put the city into fire for seven days and seven nights. It earned him the title of \"Jahānsūz\", meaning \"\"the world burner\"\". The Ghaznavids retook the city with Seljuq help, but lost it to Oghuz Turks.\n\nIn 1152, Ala al-Din Husayn refused to pay tribute to the Seljuks and instead marched an army from Firozkoh but was defeated and captured at Nab by Sultan Ahmed Sanjar. Ala al-Din Husayn remained a prisoner for two years, until he was released in return for a heavy ransom to the Seljuqs. Meanwhile, a rival of Ala al-Din named Husayn ibn Nasir al-Din Muhammad al-Madini had seized Firozkoh, but was murdered at the right moment when Ala al-Din returned to reclaim his ancestral domain. Ala al-Din spent the rest of his reign in expanding the domains of his kingdom; he managed to conquer Garchistan, Tukharistan, and Bamiyan, and later gave Bamiyan and Tukharistan to Fakhr al-Din Masud, starting the Bamiyan branch of the Ghurids. Ala al-Din died in 1161, and was succeeded by his son Sayf al-Din Muhammad, who shortly died two years later in a battle.\n\nSayf al-Din Muhammad was succeeded by his cousin Ghiyath al-Din Muhammad, who was the son of Baha al-Din Sam I, and proved himself to be a capable king. Right after Ghiyath's ascension, he, with the aid of his loyal brother Mu'izz al-Din Muhammad, killed a rival Ghurid chief named Abu'l Abbas. Ghiyath then defeated his uncle Fakhr al-Din Masud who claimed the Ghurid throne and had allied with the Seljuq governor of Herat, and Balkh.\n\nIn 1173, Mu'izz al-Din Muhammad reconquered the city of Ghazna and assisted his Ghiyath in his contest with Khwarezmid Empire for the lordship of Khorasan. In 1175, Mu'izz al-Din Muhammad captured and annexed the Ghaznavid principality of Punjab in 1186. He was alleged by contemporary historians to exact revenge for his great grandfather Muhammad ibn Suri. After the death of his brother Ghiyath in 1202, he became the successor of his empire and ruled until his assassination in 1206 near Jhelum by Khokhar tribesmen (in modern-day Pakistan).\n\nA confused struggle then ensued among the remaining Ghūrid leaders, and the Khwarezmids were able to take over the Ghūrids' empire in about 1215. Though the Ghūrids' empire was short-lived, Mu'izz al-Din Muhammad's conquests strengthened the foundations of Muslim rule in India. On his death, the importance of Ghazna and Ghor dissipated, and they were replaced by Delhi as power centre in India during the rule of his Mamluk successors.\n\nThe Ghurids were great patrons of Persian culture and literature and lay the basis for a Persianized state in India. However, most of the literature produced during the Ghurid era has been lost. They also transferred Iranian architecture to India.\n\nOut of the Ghurid state grew the Delhi Sultanate which established the Persian language as the \"official court language\" of the region – a status it retained until the late Mughal era in the 19th century.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284226", "title": "Intocable", "text": "Intocable\n\nIntocable (Untouchable) is an American Tejano and Norteño band from Zapata, Texas that was started by friends Ricardo Javier Muñoz and René Orlando Martínez in the early 1990s. In a few years, Intocable fused the genres Tejano and Norteño with a musical signature that fused Tejano's robust conjunto and Norteño folk rhythms with a pop balladry. Intocable is perhaps the most influential group in Tejano and their tough Tejano/Norteño fusion has become the blueprint for dozens of Tex-Mex groups. The group's style, which combines romantic, hooky melodies, tight instrumentation and vocal harmony, is consistently imitated by other Tejano and Norteño groups, including Imán, Costumbre, Solido, Estruendo, Intenso, Duelo and Zinzero.\n\nCareer accomplishments include four consecutive sold-out nights at Mexico City's prestigious Auditorio Nacional and the group's 2003 headlining appearance at Reliant Stadium in Houston, which drew a record 70,104 fans. They also play every year as tradition with two sold-out dates (lately three) at the 10,000-capacity Monterrey Arena in Monterrey, Mexico —an unusual accomplishment given that Norteño groups typically play large dance halls and rarely arenas unless it's an all day festival event. Intocable has also won at least eight of Univision's Premio Lo Nuestro awards. They received their first Grammy win in February 2005 at the 47th Annual Grammys (Grammy Award for Best Mexican/Mexican-American Album; \"Intimamente\") and second at the 53rd annual Grammys for their album \"Classic\".\n\nThey were the first of their genre to play at Dallas Cowboys Stadium, at the halftime show of the 2011 Dallas Cowboys vs. Washington Redskins game, also at The Greek Theatre, Los Angeles. They garnered two of the 5 nominations to the Billboard Regional Mexican Awards and got a nod for Best Norteño Album to the 2011 Latin Grammy for their album \"INTOCABLE 2011\". They were also nominated for a Grammy for the album. \"INTOCABLE 2011\" was released under the group's own music label Good-i Music and the first two singles, \"Robarte Un Beso\" and \"Prometí\", went to Number 1 on US regional radio charts. The 3rd single \"Arrepientete\" also did very well on radio and their 4th single \"Llueve\" was premiered live onstage at the 2012 Premio lo Nuestro where the group swept with all three categories they were nominated for.\n\nOn October 12, 2015, Intocable made history, by streaming a showcase for the whole world, in which more than 22,000 people enjoyed a unique evening from the comfort of their homes. 100% of the proceeds were donated to St. Jude Hospital to help children affected with cancer; there the inception of #AyudaAAyudar was formed and will continue to do events to raise funds for this noble cause.\n\nOn January 23, 2016, Intocable announced their partnership with St.Jude, a pledge first of its kind in the music industry. After witnessing firsthand the groundbreaking research done at St. Jude, Intocable knew they had to help the organization in any capacity possible. Today, their support will not only create awareness for the cause, but their pledge of support will contribute to assure that families pay for nothing and can focus on letting their child live.\n\nIntocable headlined SXSW 2016 SXAmericas All Latino Showcase, making Intocable the first Latino artist to headline this three-day series of charity beneficiary concert events. The group took over the largest SXSW stage, which attracted more than 50,000 attendees over the three-day period.\n\nIn the early 1990s, the band's first indie albums barely sold. In February 1994 their album \"Fuego Eterno\", with new label EMI Latin, had notable sales. The music of Ramón Ayala influenced the direction of the band. The band's lead vocalist and accordion player, Ricky Muñoz has stated that Ayala is his biggest inspiration. In 1997, the band suffered a setback when two members of the band left to form their own group—Johnny Lee Rosas, (bajo sexto and 2nd voice), and Albert Ramirez, (bass), formed Grupo Masizzo. Rosas rejoined the group in 2003 after four successful solo albums.In July 2017,Intocable performed their first ever concert in Toronto,Ontario.\n\nOn January 31, 1999, two group members, Jose Ángel Farias and Silvestre Rodríguez, along with road manager José Ángel González were tragically killed in an accident while driving to Monterrey, Mexico's General Mariano Escobedo International Airport to catch a flight to Mexico City. The group's van blew a tire, causing the vehicle to roll off Mexican Federal Highway 40 and crash. After rolling over, Ricky Muñoz was the only one left in the van due to him wearing his seat belt on while the other members were laying on the side of the highway. Muñoz and the remaining members of the group suffered multiple injuries and spent weeks in a Monterrey hospital. After a six-month layoff, Intocable toured successfully behind the comeback album \"Contigo\" (With You), whose first single was entitled \"El Amigo Que Se Fue\" (The Friend That Has Left), a tribute song to the fallen band Members.\n\nThe following are some of Intocable's songs that reached the top ten on \"Billboard\" singles charts:\nNo Te Vayas,Vivir Sin Ellas,¿Dónde Estás?,Eres Mi Droga,Amor Maldito, Soñador Eterno,Perdedor,El Amigo Que Se Fue,Ya Estoy Cansado,Enséñame A Olvidarte,Estás Que Te Pelas,Déjame Amarte, Sueña,Más Débil Que Tú,El Poder De Tus Manos, Muy A Tu Manera,Eso Duele, Soy Un Novato,Si Pudiera, Invisible,¿A Dónde Estabas?,Tiempo,Es Mejor Decir Adiós,Contra Viento Y Marea,Aire,¿Y Todo Para Qué?\",Alguien Te Va A Hacer Llorar,Por Ella Dame Un Besito,Bastó,Tu Adiós No Mata,Llévame En Tu Viaje,Hay Ojitos,Prometí, Llueve,Robarte Un Beso,Culpable Fui,Dímelo,Te Amo (Para Siempre),Arrepentido,Quiéreme(Ámame),Te Perdonó,No Van A Entender,Me Dueles and Tu Soledad y la Mía.\n\nThe group states that they are always looking out for that magical song with the right combination of lyrics and music that will intrigue and affect the life of everyday people. In 2010 the band was named, \"group of the decade,\" and their style has influenced many bands in the U.S. and other countries.\n\n\n\n\nGrammy Award for Best Mexican/Mexican-American Album (2005) · \n\nLatin Grammy Award for Best Norteño Album (2013, 2005) · \n\nGrammy Award for Best Norteño Album (2011)\n\nBillboard Latin Music Lifetime Achievement Award (2012) .\n\nALMA Award for Outstanding Latin Group of the Year (2002)\n\nAmerican Music Award for Favorite Latin Artist (2004)\n\nLatin Grammy Award for Album of the Year (2005)\n\nLatin Grammy Award for Best Short Form Music Video (2006)\n\nGrammy Award for Best Banda or Norteño Album (2012) \n\nGrammy Award for Best Regional Mexican Music Album (2014)\n\n"}
{"id": "2284231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284231", "title": "Peter Ho Davies", "text": "Peter Ho Davies\n\nPeter Ho Davies (born 30 August 1966) is a contemporary British writer of Welsh and Chinese descent.\n\nBorn and raised in Coventry, Davies studied physics at Manchester University and then English at Cambridge University.\n\nIn 1992 he moved to the United States to study in the graduate creative writing program at Boston University. He has taught at the University of Oregon and at Emory University and is currently a professor in the Helen Zell MFA Program in Creative Writing at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor.\n\n\n\n\nDavies is a recipient of fellowships from the Guggenheim Foundation, the National Endowment for the Arts, and the Fine Arts Work Center in Provincetown.\n\nHis short fiction has appeared in \"The Atlantic\", \"Harper's\" and \"The Paris Review\" and been widely anthologized, appearing in \"Prize Stories: The O. Henry Awards\" 1998, and \"Best American Short Stories\" 1995, 1996, and 2001. \n\n\"The Ugliest House in the World\" won the John Llewellyn Rhys and PEN/Macmillan Prizes in the UK, as well as the 1998 H.L. Davis Award for Short Fiction.\n\n\"Equal Love\" was a \"New York Times\" Notable Book of the Year and a finalist for the \"LA Times\" Book Prize. \n\nIn 2003, he was named by \"Granta\" magazine as one of twenty 'Best of Young British Novelists'. \n\n\"The Welsh Girl\" was longlisted for the 2007 Man Booker Prize and was listed as one of the best fiction books of 2007 by \"The Boston Globe\".\n\n\"The Fortunes\" was a \"New York Times\" Notable Book of the Year and winner of the Anisfield-Wolf Award and Chautauqua Prize in 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "2284233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284233", "title": "James Aston, 5th Lord Aston of Forfar", "text": "James Aston, 5th Lord Aston of Forfar\n\nJames Aston, 5th Lord Aston of Forfar (23 May 1723 – 24 August 1751) was a son of Walter Aston, 4th Lord Aston of Forfar, and Lady Mary Howard.\n\nOn 30 June 1742 James married Lady Barbara Talbot, sister of the 14th Earl of Shrewsbury, by whom he had two daughters.\n\nIn 1748, he succeeded his father as Lord Aston of Forfar in the Peerage of Scotland.\n\nLord Aston produced no direct male heir by the time of his death in 1751, when his title passed to his distant cousin Philip Aston, 6th Lord Aston of Forfar.\n\n"}
{"id": "2284234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284234", "title": "John Fisher (American politician)", "text": "John Fisher (American politician)\n\nJohn Fisher (March 13, 1806 – March 28, 1882), iron founder, manufacturer, was a politician, both in Canada and the United States. He had one son.\n\nBorn in Londonderry, New Hampshire, Fisher moved to Hamilton, Ontario, Canada in 1835, when he established what is believed to have been the first foundry in the city, on the northwest corner of James and Merrick streets, Fisher designed and manufactured the first threshing machines in Canada, basing his ideas on a 1786 model designed by a Scot. He expanded the business with his cousin Calvin McQuesten (who himself would found a powerful Hamilton family), they formed a partnership with two other men, to manage the foundry, with McQuesten remaining in the United States to gain additional necessary funds.\n\nThe firm experienced difficulties getting established In 1836 Fisher was forced to sell some assets, lay off workers, and seek loans. In the following year, anti-American sentiment was high, owing to the support given by the United States to William Lyon Mackenzie, and it found expression in a refusal to pay bills and threats to burn the foundry. Fisher was ready to leave, but McQuesten convinced him to remain. The latter settled in Hamilton in 1839, and the two partners, by now the sole proprietors of the business, were determined to make it prosper. The foundry expanded during the 1840s, producing a variety of agricultural equipment. In the 1850s, Fisher, in partnership with other foundries, was a contractor for the Great Western Railway in the manufacture of railway cars. The firm of Fisher and McQuesten was moved to Wellington Street in 1855 after a fire destroyed the original premises. Six years later (1857), he sold his interest in the foundry and moved from Hamilton to Batavia, New York. He was elected as a Republican representative to the 41st Congress (1869–1871), but was unsuccessful in his subsequent re-election bid.\n\nDuring his years in Hamilton, Fisher was an active participant in the civic life of the community. In 1843 he built a fire engine which he donated to the city and which was housed at the James Street Foundry. Fisher also served on the Hamilton city council as an alderman from 1848–1849, and became the city's fourth mayor (for a one-year term) in 1850. He helped build an orphan asylum donating in 1851 £100 (which according to some sources was his salary as mayor) to the Hamilton Ladies' Benevolent Society for the costs of construction. He served on the building committee with Edward Jackson and Edward Cartwright Thomas, and the asylum (Barton Street Jail) on Wellington Street opened in June 1853.\n\n"}
{"id": "2284240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284240", "title": "Manta F.C.", "text": "Manta F.C.\n\nManta Fútbol Club is a football club based in Manta that plays in the Serie B, Ecuador's top-level of professional football. Their rival club is LDU Portoviejo.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284242", "title": "I Just Wasn't Made for These Times (album)", "text": "I Just Wasn't Made for These Times (album)\n\nI Just Wasn't Made for These Times is the second studio album by Brian Wilson. Co-produced by Don Was, the album followed Wilson's eponymous debut seven years after its release. It also serves as a soundtrack album for the documentary \"\", also directed by Was. The titles are derived from the Beach Boys' song \"I Just Wasn't Made for These Times\" (1966).\n\nAfter his solo debut, Wilson's psychotherapist, Eugene Landy, had significant influence on Wilson's projected follow-up, \"Sweet Insanity\", which was shelved in 1990 and never released. After Landy's court-ordered departure, Wilson returned to the studio and embarked on multiple projects.\n\nWilson admitted in 1995: “At first, I thought ‘This is gonna be contrived, the songs were all old hat. But then I understood the context of it all, so I felt free to talk without worrying about what I was saying. I got a sense of my self — a sense of worth.\n\n\"I Just Wasn't Made for These Times\" reached No. 59 on the UK Albums Charts It did not chart in the U.S.\n\n\"Love and Mercy\" and \"Melt Away\" were originally credited as Brian Wilson and Eugene Landy, but those credits have since been revised to show Wilson as the only composer.\n\nFrom liner notes.\n"}
{"id": "2284243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284243", "title": "Eloise (books)", "text": "Eloise (books)\n\nEloise is a series of children's books written in the 1950s by Kay Thompson (1909–1998) and illustrated by Hilary Knight (b. 1926). Thompson and Knight followed up \"Eloise\" (1955) with four sequels.\n\nEloise is a young girl who lives in the \"room on the tippy-top floor\" of the Plaza Hotel in New York City with her nanny, her pug dog, Weenie, and her turtle, Skipperdee.\n\nThe character was developed by the author based on her childhood imaginary friend and alter ego, with a voice in which Thompson spoke throughout her life, according to her biographer, filmmaker Sam Irvin. Thompson's goddaughter, Liza Minnelli, was often speculated as a possible model for Eloise.\n\nThe illustrator stated that the image for Eloise was based on one that his mother, Katherine Sturges Dodge, had painted, during the 1930s.\n\n\nOther modern Eloise titles released by Simon & Schuster include \"Eloise's Guide to Life\" (2000), \"Eloise at Christmas\" (2003), \"Eloise's What I Absolutely Love Love Love\" (2005) and \"Love & Kisses, Eloise\" (2005). The same publisher began producing Eloise stories \"in the style of Kay Thompson and Hilary Knight\" to their early-reader Ready-to-Reads line in 2005. By 2007, 11 titles had been released in that line.\n\nThompson's time on the set of the 1957 musical film \"Funny Face\" inspired a new \"Eloise\" cartoon—\"Eloise in Hollywood\" (2006).\n\nBernadette Peters narrates a new collection of three Eloise stories—\"Eloise\", \"Eloise in Paris\" and \"Eloise in Moscow\", released by Simon & Schuster Audio in October 2015. They are available in audiobook and CD and book.\n\nIn 2003, two made-for-TV movies based on the first two books were made by Walt Disney Television, titled \"Eloise at the Plaza\" and \"Eloise at Christmastime\", starring Sofia Vassilieva as Eloise and Julie Andrews as Nanny. In 2006, an based on the characters of the books, premiered on Starz! Kids & Family, featuring Mary Matilyn Mouser as Eloise and Lynn Redgrave as Nanny.\n\nA movie based on \"Eloise in Paris\", starring Jordana Beatty as the title character and Uma Thurman as Nanny, is being developed by Charles Shyer, director of \"Alfie\" and \"Father of the Bride\". As of 2012, little, if any, development on the film was announced, and it was reported that Thurman filed a lawsuit against Handmade and demanded £6m compensation.\n\nA direct-to-DVD animated feature entitled \"Eloise in Africa\" was announced in February 2009 but was never finished. It would have been made entirely at Animation Collective’s New York City facility. In 2011, an animatic from the film was uploaded onto Vimeo.\n\nTelevision\n\nMovies\n\nA portrait of Eloise was hung in the lobby of the Plaza until it closed for renovations in 2005. The portrait was re-hung in May 2008 after three years in storage.\n\nFilmmaker Lena Dunham sports an Eloise tattoo and produced the HBO documentary short, \"It's Me, Hilary: The Man Who Drew Eloise\", chronicling the life and career of series co-author and illustrator Hilary Knight.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284248", "title": "Hymns by Johnny Cash", "text": "Hymns by Johnny Cash\n\nHymns by Johnny Cash was the fifth album and first gospel album of Johnny Cash. The album was produced in 1958 and was then officially released in 1959. An alternate version of the song \"It was Jesus\" was an added bonus track after the album was re-issued in 2002. Cash said he left Sun Records because Sam Phillips wouldn't let him record the gospel songs he'd grown up with. Columbia promised him to release an occasional gospel album; this was a success for him to record. The album was Cash’s first and most popular gospel album, and is an example of traditional hymns set to country gospel music. The album was recorded simultaneously with \"The Fabulous Johnny Cash\".\n\nMusicians\n\nAdditional personnel\n"}
{"id": "2284249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284249", "title": "Tönning", "text": "Tönning\n\nTönning (German; Low German \"Tünn\", \"Tönn\" or \"Tönnen\"; Danish: \"Tønning\"; North Frisian: \"Taning\") is a town in the district of Nordfriesland in the German state of Schleswig-Holstein.\n\nTönning was destroyed in the Burchardi flood in 1634. During the Great Northern War, (1700–1721), Tönning was besieged twice.\n\nIt is located on the northern bank of the Eider river, approximately eight kilometers away from its mouth at the North Sea. Tönning has a population of some 5,000 people.\n\nTönning is connected by a regional train with Sankt Peter-Ording to the West, and Husum to the North-East. Tönning is also served by several bus routes.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284259", "title": "Shah Mahmud Khan", "text": "Shah Mahmud Khan\n\nSardar Shah Mahmud Khan ( – b:1890 d: 27 December 1959) was the Prime Minister of Afghanistan from May 1946 to 7 September 1953, under King Mohammed Zahir Shah's monarchy. He was from the Pashtun tribe of Barakzai Mohammedzai. He was a brother of Nadir Khan, who ousted Habibullah Kalakani (also known as Bacha-ye Saqqow), and uncle of both Zahir Shah and Sardar Mohammed Daoud Khan, his eventual successor. His other two brothers are Sardar Mohammad Hashim Khan and Sardar Shah Wali Khan.\n\nUnder his leadership, relatively free 1949 elections were permitted, in response to a mostly middle-class youth movement wanting reforms. However, by the 1952 elections, the policy reverted to strict control. Also during his time as Prime Minister, the Pakistani state was formed following India's independence from the United Kingdom. The Afghans contended that the Pashtuns living in the border regions should be given a choice to join Afghanistan or form an independent state, which led to tense relations with Pakistan from the onset. Afghanistan went through economic troubles in the early 1950s, and having failed at an ambitious irrigation scheme in western Afghanistan, Mahmud Khan was eventually replaced by Daoud Khan.\n"}
{"id": "2284265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284265", "title": "Illinois Route 137", "text": "Illinois Route 137\n\nIllinois Route 137 (IL 137) is a state highway in northeast Illinois. It runs from the Wisconsin Border north of Winthrop Harbor south to North Chicago, west to Libertyville, and then back northwest to Grayslake, terminating at IL 83 just south of IL 120.\n\nThe eastern portion of Illinois 137 carries part of the Amstutz Expressway, a short freeway between downtown Waukegan and Lake Michigan. It is also one of two J-shaped state roads in Illinois (the other being IL 157 in southwest Illinois).\n\nIllinois 137 is called Buckley Road in the northwest-southeast segment, as well as the east–west segment east of Illinois Route 21 (Milwaukee Avenue). Between these segments, in northern Libertyville, business addresses use Peterson Road, however street signs name it Buckley Road, which continues west as Illinois 137 turns northwest. In North Chicago, at the east end of the Buckley Road alignment, the route turns north where it cuts Naval Station Great Lakes into two areas, and becomes Sheridan Road for most of its remaining length to the Wisconsin state line. The exception is the Amstutz Expressway, which runs from Sheridan Road near the southern border of Waukegan to Greenwood Avenue roughly north, where the expressway abruptly ends; Illinois 137 follows Greenwood Avenue west a short distance back to Sheridan Road and continues north through Beach Park, Zion, and Winthrop Harbor before terminating at the state line. Sheridan Road continues north as Wisconsin Highway 32.\n\nThe Amstutz Expressway is a short, limited-access road located in downtown Waukegan. It was built in the 1970s to ease traffic in Waukegan’s downtown area, but is now also known as the \"road to nowhere\". The , four-lane highway was intended to be a connecting route for the downtown area, but a critical link through the neighboring village of North Chicago was never built, and the factories that the expressway was designed to serve have since closed. Today, the thoroughfare carries fewer than 15,000 vehicles per day. Because it is used so little, this short stretch of highway has been the setting for filming such movies and television programs as \"Groundhog Day\", \"The Blues Brothers\", \"The Ice Harvest\", \"Batman Begins\", and \"Chicago Fire\".\n\nIn the early 2000s, proposals were made to remove the expressway, thus narrowing the space needed for roadway, and then moving the nearby railroad right-of-way to the unused expressway land as part of a revitalization project for the lakefront area. Illinois 137 follows the entire length of the expressway, and received this designation in 1994 when Illinois 137 was extended north to the Wisconsin state line.\n\nThe Amstutz Expressway was named after Mel Amstutz, a former Lake County Highway Superintendent. In 2007, legislation was pending in the Illinois General Assembly to rename the expressway, Bobby Thompson Expressway, after the former mayor of North Chicago. The bill received unanimous support in the Illinois House of Representatives, but has not yet been voted on by the Illinois Senate. This name change took effect in 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "2284266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284266", "title": "Bruce Meyer", "text": "Bruce Meyer\n\nBruce Meyer (born April 23, 1957) is a Canadian poet and educator.\n\nHe has been the Director of Writing and Literature at the University of Toronto School of Continuing Studies, and has taught at the University of Windsor, McMaster University, Trinity College at the University of Toronto, Seneca College, Humber College, Georgian College, and Skidmore College. He has been Visiting Writer at the Universities of Southern Mississippi and University of Texas at Austin, and the Whidden Lecturer at McMaster University.\n\nMeyer currently teaches English at Laurentian University - Barrie Campus, where he is chief editor of \"The In Site\", a poetry and short story magazine for Laurentian Barrie campus students. His broadcasts on \"The Great Books\" for CBC's \"This Morning\" are the network's best-selling audiocassette series.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284269", "title": "Brittany (name)", "text": "Brittany (name)\n\nBrittany is a female given name, after the Brittany region of France, first given in the United States in the 1970s. It was frequently given in the United States in the late 1980s and early 1990s, peaking in popularity at rank 3 in 1991/2.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284271", "title": "The Inexperienced Spiral Traveller", "text": "The Inexperienced Spiral Traveller\n\nThe inexperienced Spiral Traveller (aus dem Schoß der Hölle ward geboren die Totensonne) (German: \"from the Womb of Hell was born the Sun of the Dead\") is the third album by darkwave band Sopor Aeternus & the Ensemble of Shadows, and was released in 1997. \"The inexperienced Spiral Traveller\" continued the Renaissance- and Baroque-inspired sound of \"\"Todeswunsch - Sous le soleil de Saturne\"\", but with tighter arrangements and the re-introduction of drum machines. A limited edition of 3,000 copies was initially available alongside the regular edition, and the album has been re-issued at least twice since.\n\n\"The inexperienced Spiral Traveller\" was the first album to set the sound of Sopor in stone, with its tighter, more expressive arrangements and full utilization of strings and brass. The musical palette was enhanced by the edition of actual violin, cello, and lute players, where synthesizers had been previously used. Drum machines were also integrated with the live percussion on several songs, and production values were at their highest yet with full use of studio techniques, as heard on opening track \"Sylla'borêal\". Despite this, Anna-Varney Cantodea has publicly stated her distaste for the album, stating:\n\n\"Hmm... Well... Let's put it this way: \"The inexperienced Spiral Traveller,\" has been the worst album I have ever recorded... And after that... It slowly got better.\" \n\nSimilar comments were made about the accompanying remix album, \"\"Voyager - The Jugglers of Jusa\"\".\n\nThe subject matter of the album mainly deals with the isolation brought on by Cantodea's illnesses through life. It has been stated in interviews that one illness nearly blinded her permanently, and much of the imagery of the album comes from that episode. The identity of the \"loyal friend\" mentioned is unknown (although many fans now believe this reference is primarily to depression), but on the later-released \"\"La Chambre D'Echo\" - Where the dead Birds sing\", Cantodea states that \"\"this once so loyal friend ..., he's not that welcome anymore.\"\" The song \"Birth - Fiendish Figuration\" was re-recorded for this album, while \"May I kiss your Wound ?\" would be re-recorded for \"\"Songs from the inverted Womb\"\".\n\nIn 2004, \"The inexperienced Spiral Traveller\" was re-issued with entirely new artwork, including radically new art and liner notes. The new artwork emulates a tourism package, including a passport and the photographs from the older version encapsulated in Polaroid borders. The back cover also featured a mock advertisement for the Synchro-Box, quoted to be \"the best device to travel the continuum\".\n\nShe rerecorded some songs from this album on her 2018 album The Spiral Sacrifice.\n\n"}
{"id": "2284272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284272", "title": "Tim Stoner", "text": "Tim Stoner\n\nTim Stoner (born 1970 in Essex) is an English painter. Growing up in London, he attended Leyton Sixth Form College. He trained at the Norwich School of Art & Design 1989-92, the Royal College of Art, London (where in 1994 he graduated with an MA in Painting), and the Rijksakademie Van Beeldende Kunsten (Royal Academy of Visual Arts) in Amsterdam 1997-98. He won the Beck's Futures art award in 2001, and worked at the British School at Rome during the same year.\n\n"}
{"id": "2284275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284275", "title": "Republic of Korea Navy", "text": "Republic of Korea Navy\n\nThe Republic of Korea Navy (ROKN; ), also known as the ROK Navy or South Korean navy, is the naval warfare service branch of the South Korean armed forces, responsible for naval and amphibious operations. The ROK Navy includes the Republic of Korea Marine Corps, which functions as a branch of the Navy. The ROK Navy has about 70,000 regular personnel including 29,000 Republic of Korea Marines. There are about 150 commissioned ships with the ROK Navy. The naval aviation force consists of about 70 fixed-wing and rotary-wing aircraft. The ROK Marine Corps has about 300 tracked vehicles including assault amphibious vehicles.\n\nThe Republic of Korea Navy was established as the Marine Defense Group on November 11, 1945 after Korea was liberated from the Empire of Japan on August 15, 1945. Since the Korean War, the South Korean navy had concentrated its efforts on building naval forces to counteract hostilities of North Korea. As South Korea's economy grew, the ROK Navy was able to locally build larger and better equipped fleets to deter aggression, to protect the sea lines of communication, and to support the nation's foreign policy. As part of its mission, the ROK Navy has engaged in several peacekeeping operations since the turn of the 21st century. The ROK Navy aims to become a blue-water navy in the 2020s.\n\nThe objectives of the ROK Navy as core strength for the National Security are:\n\nKorea has a long history of naval activity. In the late 4th century during the Three Kingdoms Period, Goguryeo defeated Baekje, fielding amphibious forces of 40,000 men in the process. In 732, the Balhae navy \"attacked the Shandong peninsula and destroyed the biggest seaport of the Tang Empire in the east – Dengzhou.\" In the 9th century, Commissioner Chang Bogo of Unified Silla established a maritime base called Cheonghaejin on an island to foster trading with China and Japan, and to eradicate pirates.\n\nIn 1380, naval forces of the Goryeo Dynasty defeated 500 invading Japanese pirate vessels by deploying shipboard guns, devised by Choi Moosun. This is reportedly the first use of shipboard guns in naval history. In 1389 and 1419, Korean naval forces invaded Tsushima Island to suppress Japanese piracy. In the early years of the Joseon Dynasty, the naval force reached its peak of 50,000 personnel, in order to combat the ongoing piracy issue.\n\nDuring the Japanese invasions of Korea (the Imjin War) in the 16th century, the Korean naval force commanded by Admiral Yi Sunshin, who later became the head of the navy, cut off the invaders' naval lifeline and defeated the Japanese fleet, reversing the war in favor of Joseon. Admiral Yi is also credited with the creation of the Turtle Ship.\n\nBy the end of the 19th century, the Joseon navy had no significant naval force other than coastal defense fortresses. In 1893, the Joseon court requested the British Consul-General to dispatch a naval officer for organizing a naval school in an attempt to modernize the navy. In September 1893, the navy school was established in Ganghwa Island. Lieutenant William H. Callwell, a retired British naval officer, and John W. Curtis, a gunnery instructor, served as instructors for 160 cadets and sailor recruits. However, the Royal Naval Academy was closed in November 1894, and the Joseon navy was brought to an end in 1895 due to the First Sino-Japanese War and the Gabo Reform. In 1903, the government of the Korean Empire purchased its first modern naval ship, KIS \"Yangmu\". Korean naval tradition was disrupted after Korea was annexed by the Empire of Japan in 1910. During the Japanese occupation of Korea, the Imperial Japanese Navy (IJN) built a considerable naval base – Chinkai Guard District in southern Korea (at present-day Jinhae).\n\nThe Republic of Korea Navy was established as the Marine Defense Group on November 11, 1945. After Korea was liberated from the Empire of Japan on August 15, 1945, Sohn Won-yil, a former merchant mariner and son of the Methodist minister and independence activist Sohn Jung-do, organized the Marine Defense Group in Seoul. The Group formed the Korean Coast Guard and Coast Guard Academy at Jinhae, and the Korean Coast Guard acquired 36 patrol boats (mainly ex-IJN and USN minecraft) through the United States Army Military Government in Korea. After the South Korean government government was established on August 15, 1948, the Korean Coast Guard became the Republic of Korea Navy, and Sohn was appointed as the first Chief of Naval Operations of the ROK Navy. On April 15, 1949, the Republic of Korea Marine Corps (ROKMC) was founded at Jinhae.\n\nIn October 1949, the ROK Navy purchased a 600-ton submarine chaser, the former with funds raised among its personnel. She was renamed ROKS \"Baekdusan\" (PC 701) after Paektu Mountain, and became \"the first significant warship of the newly independent nation\".\n\nThe Korean War started with the North Korean army's surprise attack on Sunday, June 25, 1950. The ROK Navy confronted threats from the North Korean navy: \"Perhaps the most aggressive and effective, if smallest, member of the South Korean armed services during the first year of the Korean War was the Republic of Korea Navy (ROKN). At the outset of the conflict, the 6,956-man ROKN, with [33] naval vessels of various types, was outnumbered by the 13,700 men and 110 naval vessels of the North Korean navy.\" With its UN allies, dominated by U.S. forces, the ROK Navy was able to gain control in the seas surrounding the country, as a task group of the UN Blockading and Escort Force (Task Force 95). On July 27, 1953, the three-year-long war was brought to an end when an armistice agreement was signed. During the war, Australia, Canada, Colombia, Philippines, France, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Thailand, the United Kingdom, and the United States contributed naval vessels as UN allies; Denmark sent the hospital ship \"Jutlandia\". During the Korean War, the ROK Navy acquired 28 ex-USN ships including five \"Tacoma\"-class frigates.\n\nIn September 1953, the ROK Navy established the Republic of Korea Fleet, which was responsible for the operation and training of the ships.\n\nAfter the Korean War, the ROK Navy built up its surface fleet with World War II-era warships loaned from the U.S. Navy. From 1955 to 1960, the ROK Navy acquired 42 ex-USN warships including two \"Cannon\"-class destroyer escorts. In May 1963, the ROK Navy acquired its first destroyer, ROKS \"Chungmu\" (DD 91), a . Starting from 1972, nine former USN and s were transferred and added to the ROK Fleet inventory.\n\nDuring the Vietnam War, the ROK Navy dispatched the Naval Transport Group (\"Seagull\"), and the Republic of Korea Marine Corps sent the 2nd Marine Brigade (\"Blue Dragon\") to South Vietnam. In April 1975, just before the Fall of Saigon, two ROKN LSTs evacuated about 1,300 South Vietnamese and South Koreans from South Vietnam to South Korea.\n\nOn July 30, 1960, ROKS \"Gangwon\" (DE 72), formerly , sank the North Korean navy patrol craft \"PBS 371\" off the coast of Geojin. On January 19, 1967, ROKS \"Dangpo\" (PCE 56), the former USS \"Marfa\", was sunk by North Korean coastal artillery north of the demarcation line off the east coast of Korea. In June 1970, a Navy broadcast vessel (\"I 2\") was captured and abducted by North Korean patrol craft in the vicinity of Yeonpyeong Islands in the West Sea (Yellow Sea).\n\nOn February 22, 1974, a Navy harbor tug (\"YTL 30\") capsized off Tongyeong, resulting in death of 153 Navy, Coast Guard recruits and 6 sailors.\n\nIn the 1970s, through the Park Chung-hee Administration's \"\"Yulgok\" Plan\" (an eight-year national defense plan \"to build up self-reliant, national defense capability\"), the ROK Navy began to establish a fleet of locally built warships. The Navy acquired shipbuilding capabilities by planning and building high-speed patrol craft such as \"Baekgu\" class and \"Chamsuri\" class in the 1970s – in November 1972, the ROK Navy launched its first domestically built fast patrol craft to intercept North Korean spy boats. The lead ship (FF 951) of the 2,000-ton \"Ulsan\"-class frigates was launched in 1980. The lead ship (PCC 751) of the 1,000-ton \"Donghae\"-class corvettes and the lead ship (PCC 756) of the updated \"Pohang\"-class corvettes were launched in 1982 and 1984 respectively. With local shipbuilders, the ROK Navy continued to carry out other shipbuilding programs for such as the \"Dolgorae-\"class midget submarine, \"Gojunbong-\"class tank landing ship, mine warfare ship (\"Wonsan-\"class minelayer, \"Ganggyeong-\"class minesweeper), \"Cheonji-\"class logistics support ship, and \"Cheonghaejin\"-class submarine rescue ship in the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nIn November 1987, the Headquarters Republic of Korea Marine Corps was re-established; it was disbanded in October 1973 due to budget constraint. In June 1993, the ROK Navy Headquarters was relocated from Seoul to the Gyeryongdae complex, the tri-service headquarters in Gyeryong.\n\nSince the 1990s, the ROK Navy has been trying to build an ocean-going fleet to protect the sea lines of communication: In 1989, the Navy mentioned the \"Strategic Task Fleet\" (\"Jeollyak-gidong-hamdae\") in the Joint Strategic Objectives Plan. The ROK Naval forces began to participated in RIMPAC exercise from 1990. During Admiral An Pyong-tae's tenure as CNO, President Kim Young-sam supported the Navy by approving a long-term shipbuilding plan for the ocean-going navy. In 1999, the Navy developed its strategic vision for the 2020s as \"Navy Vision 2020\" that outlined the Navy's future Task Fleet, which includes light aircraft carriers and ballistic missile submarines.\n\nAt the same time, the ROK Navy steadily upgraded its naval forces: In order to strengthen the surface combatants, the ROK Navy launched the lead ship (DDH 971) of the \"Kwanggaeto the Great\"-class destroyer in 1996 to replace the former USN destroyers. For building up a submarine force, the ROK Navy acquired its first submarine (other than midget submarines), ROKS \"Chang Bogo\" (SS 061), from Howaldtswerke-Deutsche Werft of Germany in 1992. In order to replace its antiquated S-2 Tracker anti-submarine warfare aircraft, South Korea purchased a squadron of P-3C Orion maritime patrol aircraft, which were delivered to the ROK Navy starting in 1995.\n\nIn October 1998, the ROK Navy hosted its first international fleet review in commemoration of the 50th anniversary of the Republic of Korea and its armed forces off coast of Busan and Jinhae.\n\nIn June 1999, the ROK Navy forces engaged the North Korea naval forces near the Northern Limit Line (NLL) in the vicinity of Yeonpyeong Islands. On June 29, 2002, the two Navies engaged again in the same vicinity resulting in the sinking of ROKS \"Chamsuri 357\" (PKM 357).\n\nIn 2002, the lead ship (DDH 975) of the 5,500-ton \"Chungmugong Yi Sunshin\"-class destroyers was launched. In 2005, an 18,800-ton amphibious transport dock, ROKS \"Dokdo\" (LPH 6111) was launched. In 2006, the ROK Navy launched the lead ship (SS 072), which was named after the first Chief of Naval Operations, of the 1,800-ton \"Sohn Wonyil\"-class submarine equipped with an Air-Independent Propulsion (AIP) system. In May 2007, the ROK Navy launched the lead ship (DDG 991) of the 11,000-ton \"Sejong the Great\"-class destroyers, built around the American-made AEGIS combat system and the SPY-1D(v) multi-function phased array radar. In December 2008, the ROK Navy commissioned the fast missile craft ROKS \"Yoon Youngha\" (PKG 711), which was named after the skipper of ROKS \"Chamsuri 357\".\n\nFrom 2001 to 2003, a naval transport unit called \"Haeseong\" supported the Operation Enduring Freedom and the \"Sangnoksu\" Unit in East Timor. In 2005, the Navy dispatched a transport unit called \"Jejung\" to supply aid in humanitarian response to the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake. The ROK Navy hosted its second international fleet review off coast of Busan in October 2008 to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the South Korean government.\n\nOn March 26, 2010, ROKS \"Cheonan\" (PCC 772), a \"Pohang\"-class corvette was sunk by a North Korean torpedo, resulting in death of 46 sailors near Baengnyeong Island, in the vicinity of the Northern Limit Line.\n\nIn preparation for an ocean-going navy, the ROK Navy established a task force called Maritime Task Flotilla Seven in February 2010.\n\nSince 2009, a \"Chungmugong Yi Sunshin\"-class destroyer from the task force is being deployed as the Escort Task Group (\"Cheonghae\") in response to piracy off the coast of Somalia. On January 21, 2011, naval commandos of the task group carried out an operation, and succeeded in rescuing the crew of the hijacked MV \"Samho Jewelry\". As a humanitarian operation, the unit was dispatched to evacuate South Koreans and foreign nationals from war-torn Libya in 2011 and 2014.\n\nThe ROK Navy completed a new naval base called Jeju Civilian-Military Complex Port in February 2016 on the southern coast of Jeju Island to protect the sea lines of communication. In order to support ocean-going operations, the ROK Navy commissioned the 10,000-ton logistics support ship, ROKS \"Soyang\" (AOE 51), and launched the first locally designed 3,000-ton submarine, \"Dosan Ahn Changho\" (SS 083) in September 2018.\n\nThe ROK Navy continued shipbuilding programs to upgrade the fleet with local shipbuilders: In order to replace the aging \"Pohang\"-class corvettes and \"Ulsan\"-class frigates, and to take over multi-role operations such as coast patrol and anti-submarine warfare, the ROK Navy commissioned six 2,300-ton \"Incheon\"-class frigates between 2013 and 2016, and the lead ship (FFG 818) of the 2,800-ton \"Daegu\"-class frigates in March 2018. Two ex-USN \"Edenton\"-class salvage and rescue ships were replaced with two locally built 3500-ton \"Tongyeong\"-class salvage and rescue ships between 2014 and 2016. The Navy commissioned a 3,000-ton minelayer, ROKS \"Nampo\" (MLS 570) in June 2017. The lead ship of the PKX-B fast rocket craft, ROKS \"Chamsuri 211\" (PKMR 211), was commissioned in November 2017 to relieve the aging fleet of \"Chamsuri\"-class patrol craft. The ROK Navy commissioned four 4,500-ton \"Cheonwangbong\"-class dock landing ships between 2014 and 2018. In May 2018, the Navy launched the \"Marado\" (LPH 6112), which was the second ship of the \"Dokdo\"-class amphibious transport dock. In June 2018, the Navy launched a 4,500-ton training ship, the \"Hansando\" (ATH 81), which was also designed as a casualty receiving and treatment ship (CRTS).\n\nIn October 2018, the Navy hosted its third international fleet review off coast of Jeju Island.\n\nIn 2019, the Navy updated its strategic vision for the 100th anniversary of the ROK Navy as \"Navy Vision 2045\". As part of the vision, Admiral Sim Seung-seob, the Chief of Naval Operations proposed to build an ICT-based, system-driven \"Smart Navy\".\n\nThe Republic of Korea Navy includes the Republic of Korea Navy Headquarters, Republic of Korea Fleet, Republic of Korea Marine Corps, Naval Education and Training Command, Naval Logistics Command, and Naval Academy. The Chief of Naval Operations (CNO) is the highest-ranking officer of the ROK Navy.\n\nAs of May 2020, the following people were in office:\n\nThe ROK Navy is led by the Chief of Naval Operations (CNO). The Republic of Korea Navy Headquarters is located within the Gyeryongdae complex, the tri-service headquarters in Gyeryong, includes the office of the Chief of Naval Operations and various agencies and staff functions.\n\nThe CNO is a four-star admiral and a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. The CNO oversees the administration of organizing, recruiting, training, equipping, supplying, and mobilizing the ROK Navy. Despite the title, the Chief of Naval Operations does not have operational command authority over combat units (i.e. Republic of Korea Fleet, Republic of Korea Marine Corps). The CNO is an administrative position based in the Gyeryongdae complex, and exercises supervision of Navy organizations as the designee of the Minister of National Defense. Operational command of combat units falls within the purview of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff who reports to the Minister of National Defense.\n\nThe Republic of Korea Fleet, the highest operational command of the ROK Navy, was established in September 1953. Headquartered at Busan Naval Base, the Commander Republic of Korea Fleet (formerly Commander-in-Chief Republic of Korea Fleet) is responsible for naval operations. COMROKFLT, a three-star admiral, also serves as the Commander Naval Component Command (CNCC) of the ROK-US Combined Forces Command (CFC).\n\nThe Republic of Korea Fleet has three numbered fleets each assigned to the seas east, west, and south of South Korea:\nFor various types of naval operations, the ROK Fleet has a submarine force, two surface flotillas, a naval aviation force, a special warfare force, and units for combat readiness and meteorology/oceanography:\n\n\nIn 1986, the ROK Navy reorganized its patrol forces into three fleets: the First Fleet, Second Fleet, and Third Fleet. The three numbered fleets, each is led by a rear admiral (upper half), are responsible for protecting the coastal water around South Korea: The First Fleet is for the eastern naval sector, the Second Fleet is for the western naval sector and the Third Fleet is for the southern naval sector including Jeju Island. Each fleet includes a Maritime Battle Group, Logistics Squadron, Base Squadron, and Training Squadron. The Maritime Battle Group comprises squadrons of patrol forces composed of \"Kwanggaeto the Great\"-class destroyers, \"Daegu\"-class and \"Incheon-class\" frigates, \"Ulsan\"-class frigates, \"Pohang\"-class corvettes, and patrol vessels (\"Yoon Youngha-\"class fast missile craft, \"Chamsuri 211-\"class fast rocket craft, \"Chamsuri-\"class fast patrol boats).\n\nHeadquartered in Jinhae, the Submarine Force Command was established in February 2015. The ROK Navy's submarine unit had a humble beginning with three \"Dolgorae\"-class midget submarines in June 1990. After acquiring ROKS \"Chang Bogo\" (SS 061), a Type 209-class submarine, the Submarine Squadron 57 of the Component Flotilla Five was upgraded to the Submarine Flotilla Nine in October 1995. Since then, it has been playing the role of the ROK Navy's core strength.\n\nThe Submarine Force Command, which is led by a rear admiral (upper half), includes six Submarine Squadrons with Type 214 submarines (\"Sohn Wonyil\" class) and Type 209 submarines (\"Chang Bogo\" class). In September 2018, the ROK Navy launched the first locally designed 3,000-ton submarine, \"Dosan Ahn Changho\" (SS 083).\n\nThe Submarine Force Command offers the International Submarine Education & Training Program (ISETP) for submariners around the world.\n\nHeadquartered in Jinhae, the Component Flotilla Five has been the matrix of various units conducting naval component operations such as anti-submarine warfare (ASW), mine warfare, amphibious warfare, salvage and special operations. As a successor to the Flotilla One and Flotilla Two, the Component Flotilla Five was founded in 1986 with the ASW Squadron 51 (later to become Maritime Task Flotilla Seven), Mine Squadron 52, Amphibious Squadron 53, Service Squadron 55 (later Sea Salvage & Rescue Unit), and Special Warfare Squadron 56 (later Naval Special Warfare Flotilla). In 1990 and 2007, the Submarine Squadron 57 (later Submarine Force Command) and Training Squadron 509 (later Naval Battle Training Group Eight) were established respectively. As of December 2018, the Component Flotilla Five was composed of the Mine Squadron 52, Amphibious Squadron 53, and Naval Mobile Construction Squadron 59. The Commander Component Flotilla Five is a rear admiral (lower half).\n\n\nHeadquartered in Pohang, the Commander Air Wing Six is responsible for the operation of naval aircraft. South Korean naval flying started in 1951, with the reconstruction of a former USAF T-6 Texan for naval duties. In 1957, the ROK Navy established the Fleet Aviation Unit, which became the Fleet Air Wing in 1977 when the Navy strengthened its naval aviation force by acquiring Grumman S-2 Tracker ASW aircraft and Aérospatiale Alouette III helicopters. In 1986, the Fleet Air Wing was renamed the Air Wing Six.\n\nThe Air Wing Six has naval air stations in Pohang (K-3), Mokpo (K-15), Jinhae (K-10), and a detached unit at Jeju International Airport. The Air Wing Six, which is led by a rear admiral (lower half), includes three air groups, and operates about 70 fixed-wing and rotary-wing aircraft such as P-3CK Orion maritime patrol aircraft and AW159 Wildcat ASW helicopters.\n\nThe ROK Navy plans to upgrade the Air Wing Six to a naval air force command.\n\nSince the 1990s, the ROK Navy has been trying to build an ocean-going fleet to protect the sea lines of communication. In 2001, President Kim Dae-jung revealed that the Navy will have a task force called \"Strategic Task Fleet\" (\"Jeollyak-gidong-hamdae\"), which will \"protect national interests in the five oceans and contribute to world peace.\"\n\nAs part of the plan, the ROK Navy established a task force called Maritime Task Flotilla Seven on February 1, 2010, which evolved from the ASW Squadron 51 of the Component Flotilla Five. It is led by a rear admiral (lower half), and headquartered at Jeju Naval Base in Jeju Island. The task force is responsible for the defense of South Korea against sea-borne threats and protection of its sea lines of communication. The Maritime Task Flotilla Seven includes three surface squadrons: The Maritime Task Squadron 71 and 72 are composed of three \"Sejong the Great\"-class AEGIS guided-missile destroyers and six \"Chungmugong Yi Sunshin\"-class destroyers; the Mobile Logistics Squadron 77 is composed of \"Soyang\"-class and \"Cheonji\"-class fast combat support ships.\n\nA \"Chungmugong Yi Sunshin\"-class destroyer of the Maritime Task Flotilla Seven is being deployed as the Escort Task Group (\"Cheonghae\") in response to piracy in shipping lanes off the coast of Somalia. As a humanitarian operation, ROKS \"Munmu the Great\" (DDH 976) of the task group was dispatched to evacuate South Koreans and foreign nationals from war-torn Libya in 2014.\n\nThe ROK Navy plans to upgrade the Maritime Task Flotilla Seven to a fleet with 18 destroyers.\n\nThe ROK Navy includes the Republic of Korea Marine Corps, which functions as a branch of the Navy. The ROK Marine Corps is responsible for conducting amphibious operations with the ROK Navy. The Marine Corps, with 29,000 personnel, is organized into two divisions and two brigades under the Headquarters ROK Marine Corps. The Commandant of the Republic of Korea Marine Corps is a three-star general. The ROK Marine Corps has about 300 tracked vehicles including assault amphibious vehicles, main battle tanks, and self-propelled artillery.\n\nHeadquartered in Jinhae, the Naval Education and Training Command is one of the two major shore commands of the ROK Navy. The Command is responsible for training, education and professional development of the Navy's active duty Sailors. One of its primary roles is to conduct the initial orientation and basic training for new recruits of the Navy and the Korea Coast Guard. The Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps (NROTC) is under the Naval Education and Training Command. The Naval Education and Training Command is led by a vice admiral.\n\nThe Naval Logistics Command is the other major shore command of the ROK Navy. It is located in Jinhae. The Command delivers logistics and support to the Navy, and is committed to the Navy's combat readiness. It includes the Naval Ship Yard, the Naval Supply Center, the Naval Ordnance Ammunition Center, and the Naval Technology Research Institute. The Naval Logistics Command is led by a rear admiral (upper half).\nThe Republic of Korea Naval Academy is a four-year coeducational service academy located in Jinhae. It was established in 1946. Graduates are commissioned as Ensigns in the Navy or Second Lieutenants in the Marine Corps. The Naval Academy also hosts the Officer Candidate School (OCS), which provides training to become commissioned officers for civilian college graduates and candidates with military experience. The Superintendent of the ROK Naval Academy is a vice admiral.\n\nSouth Korea has a joint military partnership with the United States as outlined by the Mutual Defense Treaty signed in October 1953. The ROK Navy has worked closely with the U.S. Navy to promote regional stability.\n\nHeadquartered at Busan Naval Base, the Commander U.S. Naval Forces Korea (CNFK) is a shore command of the United States Navy that serves as the shore support agency for all U.S. naval activity in South Korea. The U.S. Naval Forces Korea was established in July 1957, with headquarters in Seoul.\n\nOriginally established as the U.S. Naval Advisory Group Chinhae Detachment, the Commander Fleet Activities Chinhae (CFAC) is a U.S. Navy installation in Jinhae.\n\nThe ROK Navy operates several naval bases in South Korea: Jinhae, Busan, Donghae, Pyeongtaek, Mokpo, Incheon, Pohang, Jeju Island, Baengnyeong Island. Naval air stations are in Pohang, Mokpo, and Jinhae.\n\nSituated in the southeastern coast of the Korean Peninsula, Jinhae has been the major naval port in Korea since the Imperial Japanese Navy built a naval base during the Japanese occupation period. After Korea was liberated from the Empire of Japan, the Korean Coast Guard (later the ROK Navy) was formed in Jinhae. Jinhae Naval Base is the principal homeport of the Republic of Korea Fleet, and hosts vital naval facilities including the Naval Shipyard. The Jinhae Naval Base Command is responsible for protecting the area.\n\nLocated in South Korea's second most-populous city after Seoul, Busan Naval Base has become another major naval base for the ROK Fleet since its headquarters moved from Jinhae in 2007. The base can accommodate up to 30 naval ships as big as the Nimitz-class aircraft carrier.\n\nDonghae, Pyeongtaek, and Mokpo hosts the headquarters of the First, Second and the Third Fleet respectively. Incheon hosts the Incheon Naval Sector Defense Command under a one-star admiral responsible for protecting littoral waters close to Seoul, the nation's capital. Pohang has a naval base for amphibious forces such as the 1st Marine Division (\"Sea Dragon\") located nearby.\n\nIn February 2016, the ROK Navy completed a new naval base on the southern coast of South Korea's largest island - Jeju, which lies in the Korea Strait. Jeju Naval Base was established to protect the sea lines of communication and to strengthen the Navy's control over the seas around South Korea. It is home of the Maritime Task Flotilla Seven and the Submarine Squadron 93. The base is also known as Jeju Civilian-Military Complex Port because it was designed to be jointly used by military and civilians; there is a pier and terminal for cruise ships. The base can host up to 20 naval vessels and two 150,000-ton cruise ships at the same time.\n\nJeju Naval Base was the venue for the international fleet review 2018 in October 2018.\n\nThe ROK Navy has about 70,000 personnel, including the 29,000 members of the ROK Marine Corps.\n\nMilitary service is mandatory for all South Korean men. In the ROK Navy, all members are volunteers, with enlisted seamen serving for 20-month periods; commissioned officers, warrant officers, and petty officers serving longer terms than those of enlisted seamen, or as career. Women can volunteer as officers, warrant officers, or petty officers. In 2001, six female ensigns, who had become commissioned officers through the Officer Candidate School, were assigned to serve on surface ships of the ROK Navy, for the first time.\n\nThere are several paths to becoming a commissioned officer in the ROK Navy, including the Naval Academy, Officer Candidate School (OCS), and Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps (NROTC). Officer Candidate School, located at the Naval Academy, Jinhae, provides training for candidates with current or prior enlisted experience in the military and civilian college graduates, which take majority in OCS.\n\nThe warrant officer rank in the South Korean armed forces falls in between that of non-commissioned and commissioned officers. In the ROK Navy, warrant officers are mostly former non-commissioned officers who had earned the rating of \"Sangsa\" (Chief petty officer) or \"Wonsa\" (Master chief petty officer) and who had been selected for and completed the warrant officer candidate program. Other routes include the naval aviation program and Air Intercept Controller (AIC) program; a small number of warrant officers serve as language officers who specialize in English translation and interpretation.\n\nWarrant officers mess in the wardroom with commissioned officers.\n\nPetty officers originate from a petty officer candidate program, which trains military personnel and civilians who take majority - seamen experience is not required to become petty officers. In the ROK Navy, personnel with ranks of \"Hasa\" (Petty officer) through \"Wonsa\" are considered petty officers (i.e. non-commissioned officers). Those at \"Sangsa\" and \"Wonsa\" are further referred to as “CPO” (chief petty officer) collectively and considered a separate community within the Navy. “CPO”s have privileges such as separate dining and living areas.\n\nThere are the appointments of \"Juim-wonsa\" and \"Juim-sangsa\" equivalent to that of the U.S. Navy's command master chief petty officer (CMDCM). The positions are filled by senior \"Wonsa\" and\" Sangsa\" respectively and unlike their U.S. Navy counterparts, the ROK Navy \"Juim-wonsa\" and \"Juim-sangsa\" wear the same standard rate insignia of \"Wonsa\" or \"Sangsa\" with an identification badge.\n\nIn the ROK Navy, seamen are referred to as \"\"Subyeong\"\" (; Hanja: 水兵). Normally the enlisted seamen serve in the Navy for 20 months; civilian recruits get initial trainings at the basic military training center in Jinhae as \"Ideungbyeong\" (Seaman 2nd class). After completing their military services as \"Byeongjang\" (Leading seaman), most of them are transferred from active duty to the naval reserve. Others continue the military service as \"Hasa\" (Petty officer) and may become career petty officers.\n\nROK Navy uniforms, then as now, are based on US Navy uniforms with some notable differences. Petty officers, not just chief petty officers, wear uniforms identical to that of a commissioned officer's uniform except with different insignia, and petty officers wear a combination cap with a white cover and a gold chinstrap. Seamen wear dungaree trousers, chambray shirts and \"dixie cup\" hats as their work uniforms. Honor guards and musicians of the navy bands of seaman rates wear sailor caps bearing \"Republic of Korea Navy\" in Korean (Hangul lettering) with the dress uniforms, musicians of petty officer rating onward and officer ranks wear peaked caps.\n\nIn the ROK Navy, as in the rest of the ROK Armed Forces, ranks fall into one of four categories: commissioned officer, warrant officer, petty officer (non-commissioned officer), and seaman, in decreasing order of authority. Commissioned officer ranks are subdivided into flag officers, senior officers (lieutenant commander through captain), and junior officers (ensign through lieutenant).\n\nROK Navy commissioned officer ranks have two distinct sets of rank insignia: On dress uniform a series of stripes similar to Commonwealth naval ranks are worn; on service uniforms, working uniforms, and special uniform situations (combat utilities and flight suits), the rank insignia are the same as the equivalent rank in the Army or the Air Force. The warrant officer rank insignia is denoted by a gold-colored \"Sowi\" insignia, and a single broken stripe.\n\nAll three branches – the Army, the Navy, and the Air Force of the ROK Armed Forces share the same rank insignia and the same names of ranks in Korean.\n\nThe ROK Navy frequently participates in multinational exercises and international activities. Also it has engaged in several peacekeeping operations since the turn of the 21st century.\n\nSince March 2009, the ROK Navy has deployed the Escort Task Group (\"Cheonghae\") in response to piracy in shipping lanes off the coast of Somalia. The task group is composed of a \"Chungmugong Yi Sunshin\"-class destroyer and about 30 naval special warfare personnel. The group operates as part of the multinational task force, Combined Task Force 151 of Combined Maritime Forces (CMF). ROKS \"Munmu the Great\" was the first ship to be deployed as part of the unit to Somali waters. On January 21, 2011, South Korean naval commandos of the task group carried out Operation Dawn of Gulf of Aden, an operation to rescue the crew of the hijacked MV \"Samho Jewelry\" and succeed in rescuing the crew and killing or capturing all of the pirates on board.\n\nAs of March 2019, about 8,500 sailors were deployed to the Gulf of Aden in 28 Escort Task Groups, which had escorted about 22,000 ships since the first deployment.\n\nIn October 1998, the ROK Navy hosted its first international fleet review in commemoration of the 50th anniversary of the Republic of Korea and its armed forces off coast of Busan and Jinhae. 21 ships from 11 countries (Australia, Bangladesh, France, India, Indonesia, Japan, New Zealand, Philippines, Singapore, United Kingdom, United States) participated in the fleet review as well as 34 ships and 15 aircraft from South Korea. The ROK Navy hosted its second international fleet review off coast of Busan in October 2008 to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the South Korean government. 22 ships from 11 countries (Australia, Canada, China, India, Indonesia, Japan, Russia, Singapore, Thailand, United Kingdom, United States) participated in the fleet review as well as 33 ships and 27 aircraft from South Korea.\n\nThe Cruise Training Unit – ROKS \"Kwaggaeto the Great\" (DDH 971), ROKS \"Jeju\" (FF 958) and ROKS \"Cheonji\" (AOE 57) participated in International Fleet Review 2002 commemorating the 50th anniversary of JMSDF in Tokyo Bay. The Cruise Training Fleet – ROKS \"Chungmugong Yi Sunshin\" (DDH 975) and ROKS \"Cheonji\" (AOE 57) - visited the United Kingdom in order to take part in the International Fleet Review for Trafalgar 200 in 2005. In April 2009, ROKS \"Dokdo\" (LPH 6111) and ROKS \"Kang Gamchan\" (DDH 979) attended an international fleet review to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the founding of the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) Navy in Qingdao. In August 2009, the Cruise Training Flotilla – ROKS \"Choi Young\" (DDH 981) and ROKS \"Daecheong\" (AOE 58) participated in the Indonesian International Fleet Review, which commemorates the 64th anniversary of Indonesian independence.\n\nThe ROK Navy hosted its third international fleet review off coast of Jeju Island in October 2018. 15 ships from 9 countries (Australia, Brunei, Canada, India, Russia, Singapore, Thailand, United States, Vietnam) participated in the pass-in-review as well as 24 ships and 24 aircraft from South Korea. In April 2019, ROKS \"Gyeonggi\" (FFG 812) attended an international fleet review to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the PLA Navy in Qingdao.\n\nThere are about 150 commissioned ships with the ROK Navy (a total displacement of about 215,000 tonnes). The naval aviation force consists of about 70 fixed-wing and rotary-wing aircraft.\n\nThere are four ship ratings: A first-rate ship (\"Sohn Wonyil\"-class SS, DDG, DDH, LPH, MLS, and AOE) is commanded by a captain; a second-rate ship (SS, FFG, FF, PCC, LST, ATS, and ASR) by a commander; a third-rate ship (PKG, MSH, and MHC) by a lieutenant commander; and a fourth-rate ship (PKMR, PKM, and LSF) is commanded by a lieutenant or a warrant officer.\n\nThe ROK Navy employs the U.S. Navy-style letter based hull classification symbols to designate the types of its ships and hull numbers to uniquely identify its vessels (e.g. DDH 975). The names are that of the historical figures, Navy heroes, provinces, cities, counties, peaks, lakes, islands, and birds. The Chief of Naval Operations selects the names of ships.\n\nThe ship prefix for all the commissioned ROK Navy ship is ROKS (Republic of Korea Ship) when the names of ships are written in English.\n\nThe Air Wing Six operates about 70 fixed-wing and rotary-wing aircraft including P-3CK Orion maritime patrol aircraft and AW159 Wildcat ASW helicopters. These aircraft operate from bases throughout South Korea, as well as from the ROK Navy's ships.\n\nThe ROK Navy had operated about 30 S-2 anti-submarine warfare aircraft from 1976 to 2001. From 1977 to 1979, the Navy had acquired 12 Aérospatiale Alouette III helicopters for shipboard helicopter operations with ex-USN \"Gearing\"-class destroyers. The ROK Navy had acquired eight P-3C aircraft by 1996, and eight more P-3CK maritime patrol aircraft (ex-USN P-3B) were delivered to the ROK Navy by 2010 after undergoing extensive refurbishment and modernization. The Navy took delivery of the first batch of 12 Mk.99 Lynx helicopters in 1991; a second batch of 13 Mk.99A Super Lynx helicopters began delivery in 1999. In 2016, the Navy took delivery of eight AW159 Wildcats helicopters.\n\nIn March 2019, the South Korean government ordered six P-8A aircraft from Boeing. The ROK Navy plans to order 12 more maritime helicopters; options include the AW159 and MH-60 Seahawk.\nThe ROK Navy, the Defense Acquisition Program Administration (DAPA), and the Agency for Defense Development (ADD) have been developing naval weaponry with local defense companies.\n\n\nThe KSS program was a three-phased program to build up the ROK Navy's submarine forces. Before the KSS program, the submarine fleet of the ROK Navy consisted of \"Dolgorae\"-class midget submarines, which had limited capabilities for inshore operations.\n\nThrough the first phase, KSS-I, the ROK Navy acquired nine 1,200-ton . For the second phase, KSS-II, the ROK Navy planned to acquire nine 1,800-ton \"Sohn Wonyil\"-class submarines with Air-Independent propulsion (AIP) system; the lead boat of her class, ROKS \"Sohn Wonyil\" (SS 072) was launched at a shipyard of Hyundai Heavy Industries on June 9, 2006. The Type 214 submarine is expected to play a key role in safeguarding the country's maritime interests. For the third phase of the program, the lead boat of KSS-III, the \"Dosan Ahn Changho\" (SS 083) was launched in 2018. A total of nine 3,000-ton KSS-III submarines are expected to be built in South Korea with indigenous technologies (i.e. not going under license as the previous KSS-I and KSS-II submarines).\n\nThe KSS-III submarines will be able to fire submarine launched ballistic missiles (SLBMs): Prompted by North Korea's development of the KN-11 SLBM, a vertical launching pad will be installed on the submarines for a missile expected to be developed by 2020. KSS-III submarines will have six vertical missile launch tubes that could house Hyunmoo-2B short-range ballistic missile with a range of .\n\nThe KDX program was a three-phased program to modernize the surface fleet by developing and constructing new destroyers for the ROK Navy with advanced combat systems and weaponry. The outcomes of this program include the \"Kwanggaeto the Great\"-class destroyers, which are the first ROK destroyers to be armed with surface-to-air missiles; the \"Chungmugong Yi Sunshin\"-class destroyers; and the powerful , which are equipped with the sophisticated AEGIS combat system for air-defense and anti-missile operations. These new destroyers replaced antiquated destroyers that had been transferred from the U.S. Navy decades ago.\n\nAs follow up programs, the ROK Navy plans to build three additional AEGIS destroyers (KDX-III Batch-II) by 2028, and six 6,000-ton destroyers (KDDX) by 2030 as successors of the \"Chungmugong Yi Sunshin\"-class destroyers.\n\nThe FFX program aims to replace the \"Ulsan\"-class frigates and \"Donghae\"/\"Pohang\"-class corvettes with new 2,300-ton frigates. The total number of the ships to be built is 18 to 24. These frigates will be armed with the American-made Phalanx CIWS system and the rolling airframe missile system, and they will each carry an anti-submarine warfare helicopter.\n\nSix s (FFX Batch-I) were commissioned by 2016. The lead ship (FFG 818) of the \"Daegu\"-class frigates (FFX Batch-II) was commissioned in 2018.\n\nThrough the PKX program, the ROK Navy plans to build a fleet of a next generation patrol craft with Cooperative Engagement Capability and enhanced weaponry such as 76 mm guns and the KSSM anti-ship missiles. There are two variations: PKX-A and PKX-B. The PKX-A is a 570-ton patrol craft with anti-ship missiles; PKX-B is a 200-ton patrol craft. 18 PKX-As and 34 PKX-Bs are planned.\n\nOn 28 June 2007, the lead ship of PKX-A, ROKS \"Yoon Youngha\" (PKG 711), was launched at the shipyard of Hanjin Heavy Industries in Busan. All 18 PKGs were commissioned by 2018 to replace the aging \"Chamsuri\"-class patrol craft. The lead ship of PKX-B, ROKS \"Chamsuri 211\" (PKMR 211), was commissioned in 2017.\n\nThe LPX program was the ROK Navy's new amphibious warfare ship program for which Hanjin Heavy Industries has provided the general design package. The ROK Navy's requirements for the new amphibious warfare ships were to enhance Korea's current amphibious operation capability, both in terms of assault and military operations other than war (MOOTW) type operations.\n\nOn 12 July 2005, the lead ship (LPH 6111) of the 14,500-ton \"Dokdo\"-class amphibious transport dock was launched at the shipyard of Hanjin Heavy Industries in Busan. The first air-cushion landing craft of LSF-II (ROKS \"Solgae 631\") was delivered for ROKS \"Dokdo\" in April 2007. In October 2009, the ROK Navy revealed a plan to commission another LPX around 2018. The \"Marado\" (LPH 6112) was launched in May 2018.\n\nAs LPX-II, the ROK Navy plans to build an uncertain number of amphibious assault ships capable of operating the F-35B.\n\n\nThe ROKN plans to build and commission an uncertain number of mine countermeasure ships similar to the \"Yangyang\" class. MSH phase II has been delayed.\n\nThe ROK Navy plans to commission a new 4,500-ton training ship (ATX) for midshipmen and officer candidates. The \"Hansando\" (ATH 81) was launched on November 16, 2018. She was designed as a training ship, and casualty receiving and treatment ship (CRTS). The \"Hansando\" is expected to be commissioned in 2021\n\nThe ROK Navy plans to commission a new submarine rescue ship around 2022. Daewoo S&ME (DSME) will build the ship, and UK-based underwater systems developer JFD will deliver a deep-submergence rescue vehicle (DSRV) for the ROK Navy in 2021.\n\nThe ROK Navy had acquired eight P-3C aircraft by 1996 through the Maritime Patrol Aircraft-I phase I. Through the phase II, eight more P-3CK maritime patrol aircraft (ex-USN P-3B) had been delivered to the ROK Navy by 2010 after undergoing extensive refurbishment and modernization.\n\nIn May 2013, it was announced that the Defense Acquisition Program Administration (DAPA) was commencing a 1 trillion won ($900 million) procurement program to acquire up to 20 new anti-submarine warfare aircraft to replace the existing fleet of 16 P-3Cs. While possible candidates include the C-295 MPA, P-8 Poseidon and the SC-130J Sea Hercules, DAPA was considering a plan to procure 12 to 20 ex-USN S-3 Vikings for the ROKN. In 2017, the ROK Navy canceled plans to purchase refurbished and upgraded S-3 Viking aircraft. In 2018, the South Korean government announced a plan to acquire six P-8 Poseidon.\n\nThrough Maritime Helicopter-I, the ROK Navy took delivery of the first batch of 12 Mk.99 Lynx helicopters in 1991; a second batch of 13 Mk.99A Super Lynx helicopters began delivery in 1999. The first Lynx batch was later upgraded to the same standard as the second batch; the changes included the adoption of a new radar, FLIR, and ESM systems.\n\nOn 15 January 2013, the Defense Acquisition Program Administration announced the selection of the AW159 Wildcat to fulfill a requirement of the ROK Navy for a maritime helicopter, winning out against the MH-60R Seahawk. The batch of eight aircraft were chosen to perform search-and-rescue missions, anti-submarine warfare and surveillance. On 13 June 2016, the Navy took delivery of four Wildcats. The helicopters operate from the Navy's \"Incheon\"-class guided missile/coastal defense frigates. The remaining four were delivered in late November 2016.\n\nIn January 2019, the South Korean government was considering ordering 12 more maritime helicopters to further strengthen the Navy's anti-submarine capabilities; options include the AW159 and MH-60 Seahawk.\n\nThe ROK Navy had planned to acquire new mine countermeasure helicopters by 2012 with a budget of 480 billion won. AgustaWestland EH-101, NHIndustries NH-90, and Sikorsky MH-60S were considered as possible candidates for the acquisition program before it decided to hold the program due to global financial crisis that hit the world in 2008.\n\n\nRomanization is according to Revised Romanization of Korean (adopted in 2000), with exceptions of personal names. Names of ships commissioned before 2000 might have been romanized according to McCune–Reischauer. Examples of changes (M-R → RR): Chinhae → Jinhae; Inchon → Incheon; Kangnung → Gangneung; Kimpo → Gimpo; Pusan → Busan; Taegu → Daegu.\n\n"}
{"id": "2284277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284277", "title": "Philip Aston, 6th Lord Aston of Forfar", "text": "Philip Aston, 6th Lord Aston of Forfar\n\nPhilip Aston, 6th Lord Aston of Forfar, was probably born at his ancestral seat of Millwich in Staffordshire, England.\n\nIn 1751, he succeeded his distant cousin James Aston, 5th Lord Aston of Forfar, as Lord Aston of Forfar in the peerage of Scotland.\n\nHe died unmarried just four years later, in 1755, when he was succeeded by his younger brother Walter Aston, 7th Lord Aston of Forfar.\n"}
{"id": "2284278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284278", "title": "Asbury, Stokes County, North Carolina", "text": "Asbury, Stokes County, North Carolina\n\nAsbury is an unincorporated community in Stokes County, North Carolina, United States.\n\nAsbury is a rural community about 10 miles north of Pilot Mountain and 11 miles east of Mount Airy, 1.5 miles south of the Virginia border.\n\n"}
{"id": "2284284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284284", "title": "Dillard, North Carolina", "text": "Dillard, North Carolina\n\nDillard is an unincorporated community in Stokes County in the U.S. state of North Carolina.\n"}
{"id": "2284285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284285", "title": "East Grand Bahama", "text": "East Grand Bahama\n\nEast Grand Bahama is a district of the Bahamas, situated on the eastern part of the island of Grand Bahama.\n\nThe local government seat for the district is in the settlement of High Rock, a fairly small town. It is situated approximately east of the City of Freeport, and from the easternmost settlement of McLeans Town. Other settlements of East Grand Bahama include Rocky Creek, Pelican Point, Gambier Point and Sweeting Cay. \n\nFor many years the United States Air Force maintained a missile tracking station near High Rock, which was used mainly in connection with all launches from Cape Canaveral FL and NASA's manned space flights. The station was used as a base of operations for a film studio, Gold Rock Creek Enterprises, where filming took place for the Disney production of and . The Bahamas Film Studios has one of the largest open water filming enclosures in the world, along with production offices and support facilities, such as property warehouses, wardrobe workshops and other covered space. The studio is still in development and will eventually add state-of-the-art sound stages, post-production facilities and a hands-on international film school.\n\n"}
{"id": "2284288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284288", "title": "Aarons Corner, North Carolina", "text": "Aarons Corner, North Carolina\n\nAarons Corner is an unincorporated community in Stokes County, North Carolina, United States, near the Virginia border. It is named after the Aaron Family who settled the area sometime before the 1760s. The community has Aarons Corner Primitive Baptist Church, and at one time a store and post office that was operated by Frank Smith. Some of the families include Smith, Overby, Collins, Martin, Gunter, Lawson, Dalton, Hughes, Joyce, Campbell, Shelton, Shephard, Tucker, and Rogers. \n"}
{"id": "2284294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284294", "title": "Delta, North Carolina", "text": "Delta, North Carolina\n\nDelta is an unincorporated community in Stokes County, North Carolina, United States.\n"}
{"id": "2284298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284298", "title": "Feiled", "text": "Feiled\n\nFeiled is a Finnish gothic rock band. Frontman Anton Laurila formed the band in 2001. Its name is a misspelling of the word \"failed\". The band was first noticed in 2002, after releasing their first demo, \"Feiled\".\n\nAfter the release of their second song, \"Lost EP\", a new promo was released and \"Feiled\" was signed to Poko Records. Soon after, the band started working on a full-length album. In 2005 they released the album \"Midnight Poems\" followed by a music video for the song \"Lost\".\n\nTheir second album, \"Testify,\" produced by Nick Triana, was released early in 2007. The single \"Lycanthropy\" rose to the top of the Finnish charts and remains the band's highest charted release.\n\n\n\n\nAfter announcing the news of the breakup of Feiled at the end of 2007, Laurila worked with a new band called \"Faulty Messenger\". Anton Laurila was in the process of recording a new studio album.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284300", "title": "Boyles Chapel, North Carolina", "text": "Boyles Chapel, North Carolina\n\nBoyles Chapel is a small unincorporated community in Stokes County, North Carolina, United States.\n"}
{"id": "2284303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284303", "title": "Collinstown, North Carolina", "text": "Collinstown, North Carolina\n\nCollinstown is an unincorporated community in Stokes County, North Carolina, United States.\n\nJessup's Mill was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1982.\n"}
{"id": "2284308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284308", "title": "Brook Cove, North Carolina", "text": "Brook Cove, North Carolina\n\nBrook Cove is an unincorporated community in Stokes County, North Carolina, United States.\n"}
{"id": "2284314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284314", "title": "Campbell, North Carolina", "text": "Campbell, North Carolina\n\nCampbell is an unincorporated community in Stokes County, North Carolina, United States.\n"}
{"id": "2284320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284320", "title": "Capella, North Carolina", "text": "Capella, North Carolina\n\nCapella is an unincorporated community in Stokes County, North Carolina, United States.\n"}
{"id": "2284324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284324", "title": "Dalton, North Carolina", "text": "Dalton, North Carolina\n\nDalton is an unincorporated community in Stokes County, North Carolina, United States.\n"}
{"id": "2284328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284328", "title": "Phi Kappa Literary Society", "text": "Phi Kappa Literary Society\n\nThe Phi Kappa Literary Society is a college literary society, located at the University of Georgia in Athens, Georgia, and is one of the few active literary societies left in America. Founded in 1820, the society continues to meet every academic Thursday of the fall and spring semesters at 7 pm at Phi Kappa Hall on the University of Georgia's North Campus. The Phi Kappa Literary Society holds formal debates and a forum for creative writings and orations as well as poetry.\n\nThe society was founded by Joseph Henry Lumpkin, William Crabbe, Homer V. Howard, Stern Simmons, John G. Rutherford, and John D. Watkins. They formed the society after splitting from the Demosthenian Literary Society, dissatisfied with how the other society's meetings were being conducted. \n\nAs Phi Kappa grew larger, makeshift meeting places were no longer appropriate or useful. Through funding provided by member Alexander Stephens, the Phi Kappa Literary Society moved into its permanent residence at Phi Kappa Hall. Phi Kappa Hall was built at a cost of $5,000 and dedicated on July 5, 1836. It is the seventh-oldest building on the University of Georgia's campus, and the Phi Kappa Literary Society currently shares use of the building with the Georgia Debate Union.\n\nThe Phi Kappa Literary Society has disbanded and reformed many times in its history. The first occurrence was in 1863 due to student enlistment in the American Civil War, which left only five members remaining. Meetings resumed on January 5, 1866. The society flourished in the early 1900s, participating in numerous collegiate debate competitions as well as sending members to compete in international collegiate debate contests. However, a drop in student enrollment due to World War II caused the society to disband again in 1944, and an extremely polarized atmosphere in the society and the university as a whole pulled the Phi Kappa Literary Society apart, seemingly for the final time, in 1973.\n\nAfter sporadic, unsuccessful attempts to revive Phi Kappa, in 1991, Stephanie Hendricks took an interest into the society after prompting from Thomas Peter Allen and was elected as its new president on January 31, 1991. Thirteen new members were inducted shortly thereafter, and the first meeting of the newly refounded society took place on February 14, 1991 in Phi Kappa Hall.\n\nIn order to become a member of the Phi Kappa Literary Society, a University of Georgia student must petition the society for membership, which is a five-week process that culminates in the student delivering a petitioning speech before the society. The student must then be accepted by a vote of the society. Once a student is a full member of Phi Kappa, they must speak at least once every three weeks to maintain membership. \n\nEach academic Thursday, Phi Kappa holds a pre-planned debate centered around a resolution in the format of \"Be It Hereby Resolved.\" Two pre-selected speakers start off the debate with one speech in affirmation of the resolution and one in the negation. These speakers have seven minutes to deliver their speech while all subsequent speakers are limited to five minutes each. The president facilitates the debate, calling on each new speaker until the society is ready to vote. A majority vote of the society decides the winner of each debate. The society abides by Robert%27s Rules of Order for their meeting procedures.\n\nThe weekly main debate is followed by an open forum for creative writings and orations. In this section of the meeting, both members and guests can deliver any creative writings they may wish to share, pre-prepared speeches outside of the realms of debate, or extemporaneous speeches.\n\nEach fall, Phi Kappa holds an Intrasociety Debate between active members and alumni. Active members and alumni form teams of five and prepare a debate based on a resolution, with about a month of preparation time. The resolution is chosen in alternating years by actives or alumni. One team speaks in affirmation of the resolution, and one team speaks in negation of it. The debate is separated into three parts: constructive, rebuttal, and summation. Upon conclusion of the debate, a panel of judges (also made up of active and alumni members) select the winner.\n\nIn the spring, Phi Kappa holds the Phi Kappa Declamation, wherein members aim to give their absolute best possible speech from a list of pre-selected topics. This is the most honored practice of the year, emphasizing impeccable rhetoric, writing, and floor presence of the speaker. \n\nThe Declamation was first introduced in 1994, shortly after the refounding of Phi Kappa. It was previously known as the Alexander Stephens Declamation until Phi Kappa members voted to rename the event in 2019.\n\nThe Phi Kappa Literary Society often collaborates with other on-campus and off-campus groups to hold special events. In 2013, Phi Kappa sponsored a debate between the Communist Party USA and the Libertarian Party of Georgia. They have also held a book discussion in collaboration with distinguished faculty members from the University of Georgia's philosophy department, and in 2011, members of Phi Kappa participated in a debate versus the renowned Oxford Union. The Phi Kappa Literary Society also maintains a close relationship with The Dialectic and Philanthropic Societies at UNC-Chapel Hill. Their closest tie to another student organization is their 200-year-long rivalry with the older Demosthenian Literary Society. Until 2019, each spring semester Phi Kappa would debate the rival society in the Intersociety Debate. However, in November 2019 the societies revised their longstanding intersociety agreement and eliminated the Intersociety Debate, ending its 28-year history until the agreement is renegotiated in 2022. The societies continue to meet for an Intersociety Meeting each fall.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284334", "title": "Angas", "text": "Angas\n\nAngas may refer to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284339", "title": "West Grand Bahama", "text": "West Grand Bahama\n\nWest Grand Bahama is one of 31 districts of The Bahamas. The district covers the entire western portion of Grand Bahama island, excluding the city of Freeport, which forms its own district. Communities within West Grand Bahama include the settlements of Mack Town, Hunters, Lewis Yard, Pinder's Point, Eight Mile Rock, Hepburn Town, Bartlett Hill, Hanna Hill, Pine Dale, Martin Town, Russell Town, Jones Town, Sea Grape, Holmes Rock, Bootle Bay and the westernmost settlement of West End.\n\nWest End's development has been dominated by a hotel and marina located at the western tip of Grand Bahama Island and now known as Old Bahama Bay. The Florida-based Ginn Company sought to develop a new tourism project in the area. In 2009, the now former Ginn Company defaulted on a $650 million Credit Suisse which a major portion of the loan was used to fund Ginn Sur Mer. The project once pegged at $5 billion would have included thousands of home sites, 4 star resort hotel, two golf courses, airport and mega yacht marina has now come to a complete halt. Bogged down with numerous lawsuits filed by disgruntled buyers who alleged that Robert (Bobby) Ginn sold land that appears to have been owned by several Bahamian families who have resided for generations in the historic settlement. The lawsuits filed in the U.S. and Bahamas courts are still ongoing.\n\nAs for the name of each settlement, they basically got their name from the families that settled there. For example, Pinder's Point was inhabited by the Pinders. Russell town by the Russells and so on. At one point, there was even a town called Cooper's town but over time, the Pinders became the dominating surname and absorbed Cooper's town, creating one settlement called Pinder's Point.\n\nWest Grand Bahama is divided into four town areas or townships (for administrative purposes). Each township has its own chairperson. They are:\n"}
{"id": "2284341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284341", "title": "Sibghatullah Mojaddedi", "text": "Sibghatullah Mojaddedi\n\nSibghatullah Mojaddedi (, 21 April 1925 – 11 February 2019) was an Afghan politician, who served as the President after the fall of Mohammad Najibullah's government in April 1992. He was also the founder of the Afghan National Liberation Front, and served as the chairman of the 2003 loya jirga that approved Afghanistan's new constitution.\n\nIn 2005, he was appointed chairman of the Meshrano Jirga, upper house of the National Assembly of Afghanistan, and was reappointed as a member in 2011. He also served on the Afghan High Peace Council. Mojaddedi is considered to have been a moderate Muslim leader.\n\nMojaddedi was born on 21 April 1925 in Kabul, Afghanistan. His family, the Mojaddedis, are a well-known family of religious scholars from Kabul who trace their ancestry to Mujaddid Ahmad Sirhindi, a prominent 16th-century Islamic scholar and Naqshbandi Sufi. Ethnically, the Mojaddedis are categorized as Pashtuns.\n\nMojaddedi studied Islamic Law and Jurisprudence at al-Azhar University in Cairo, Egypt. In 1952 he returned to Afghanistan to teach in high schools and at Kabul University, where he became known as an advocate of Afghan independence. In 1959 Mojaddedi was accused of conspiring against then Soviet Prime Minister Nikita Khrushchev and was imprisoned until 1964. In 1973 he was forced into exile for his outspoken comments regarding Soviet influence in Afghanistan. Following the Saur Revolution in 1978, the new communist government killed Mojaddedi's brother and several of his relatives. His period in exile was spent in several countries such as Denmark and Pakistan before his entry into Afghan politics.\n\nDuring exile in Peshawar, Mojaddedi founded the Jebh-e-Nejat-e Melli (National Liberation Front) group. In 1988, he was elected head of the Afghan Interim Government, based in Peshawar.\n\nIn April 1992, he was elected the chair of the Islamic Jihad Council that was set up to establish a post-Soviet Afghan government. He entered Kabul on 28 April amid a large crowd and assumed the new Islamic republic, and offered a general amnesty to all Afghans except the deposed President, Mohammad Najibullah, whose fate would be decided by \"the public\". His election was supported by all mujahideen guerilla factions except the Hezb-e Islami Gulbuddin, whose forces started firing rockets at the capital; violent clashes took place between them and soldiers of the new coalition near the Interior Ministry building. Mojadeddi pleaded with Gulbuddin Hekmatyar to lay down their arms, and commented \"Mr. Hekmatyar was our brother. We were not expecting such an action. It is not allowed to him according to religion, according to Afghan tradition, to do this.\"\n\nDuring the period that Mojaddedi was President of Afghanistan, the Ariana plane carrying him to Kabul was hit by an RPG as it was landing at Kabul International Airport. The plane landed safely, with no fatalities.\n\nThis position lasted for three months, although some sources say that he stayed in power for only two months. In May 1992, Burhanuddin Rabbani established a new leadership council, which undermined Mojaddedi's leadership, resulting in his resignation and handing over power to a new council.\n\nAfter the fall of the Taliban in 2001, Mojaddedi returned to Afghanistan from Pakistan and became chairman of the 2003 loya jirga, the assembly which approved Afghanistan's new constitution. He caused controversy there by publicly calling Malalai Joya a \"communist\" and \"infidel\" after her speech, for which he later apologized. Amnesty International said that Mojaddedi and the jirga's leadership curtrailed freedom of speech at the assembly, including refusing to launch a vote on changing \"Islamic Republic of Afghanistan\" to \"Republic of Afghanistan\" despite getting enough signatures, publicly calling the delegates who signed it \"unbelievers\" and \"apostates\".\n\nIn 2005 he became chairman of the Meshrano Jirga, Afghanistan's upper house of the National Assembly of Afghanistan, and he was reappointed as member in 2011. He also served on the Afghan High Peace Council.\n\nOn 26 August 2015, Mojaddedi launched a new political party, the Council of Jihad and National Political Parties.\n\nTwo suicide bombers carried out an attack in Kabul on 12 March 2006 against Mojaddedi, while he was a member of the upper house and head of a reconciliation committee aimed at engaging former Taliban members. The attackers blew up a vehicle filled with explosives next to his car as he was being driven through the streets. Four pedestrians were killed and Mojaddedi was slightly injured, with burns to his face and hands.\n\nMojaddedi was erroneously reported to have died on 9 February 2016. He was subsequently reported to have been present at a ceremony commemorating the 27th anniversary of the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan on 15 February 2016. It was reported on 12 February 2019 that Mojaddedi had died. He was 93.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284351", "title": "S.D. Quito", "text": "S.D. Quito\n\nSociedad Deportivo Quito is an Ecuadorian non-professional club football club based in Quito. For most of its existence, it competed in Serie A, the highest level of the Ecuadorian professional football league.\n\nDeportivo Quito has won five Serie A titles in 1964, 1968, 2008, 2009, and 2011. This places them fifth overall. The club also has four Interandean Tournament titles in 1955, 1956, 1957, and 1963. Additionally, the club was runner up in 1985, 1988, and 1997. Based on its style of play, sports journalists and fans nicknamed the club \"La Academia de los Ecuatorianos desde 1940\" ().\n\nDeportivo Quito was officially founded in 1955, although they trace their roots to Sociedad Deportiva Argentina, which was founded on July 9, 1940. Historic rivals include LDU Quito, Aucas, El Nacional, and Universidad Católica. They play their home games at Estadio Olímpico Atahualpa.\n\nThe club was founded on July 9, 1940, under the name \"Sociedad Deportiva Argentina\". On October 1, 1954, the club, together with Sociedad Deportiva Aucas & Sociedad Deportiva España, founded \"Asociación de Fútbol No Amateur (AFNA) de Pichincha\" (Spanish for \"Non-Amateur Football Association of Pichincha\"). This was followed by provincial professional soccer tournaments. In accordance with AFNA bylaws, which stipulated that no team could be named after a country (except after Spain), the shareholders of Argentina got together and changed the club's name to \"Sociedad Deportivo Quito\".\n\nThe 1950s and 1960s were fruitful decades for Deportivo Quito with the club obtaining National Championship titles in 1964 and 1968 as well as Interandean Championships (named so for inclusion of teams from both Quito and Ambato) in 1955, 1956, 1957 and 1963. The 1970s were a dark period for the club, which descended and spent several seasons in the second tier Serie B of the Ecuadorian Football League. The 1980s and 1990s brought a return measure of success for the club which came in as runners up in 1985, 1988, 1997 and qualified to participate in Copa Libertadores. 1989 also saw the transfer of one of the brightest players in Ecuadorian soccer history, Álex Aguinaga to Necaxa of Mexico.\n\nThe club would wait forty years for its third championship and after a brilliant campaign in 2008, which saw Deportivo Quito in the lead throughout the tournament, the team sealed its third star against Macará of Ambato. 2009 began fraught with problems for the club. Although it was able to hold on to its star player Luis Saritama on loan, economic problems dogged the club throughout the year. As a result, early tournament action saw the club mired in the middle half of the table. The next two phases of the tournament were a different story as the defense, solidified with the incorporation of the Ecuadorian National team captain Ivan Hurtado, led the club to top of the table finishes. This set up the final play-off against Deportivo Cuenca. Following a 1–1 tie in Cuenca, the two teams played an exciting game in Quito which saw back and forth action ending 3–2 in favor of Deportivo Quito. The team's fourth star was not nearly as elusive as the third. In the 2010 season Deportivo Quito earned a third-place finish after surpassing Barcelona SC in a home and home play-off. 2011 saw a dominating performance from Deportivo Quito, in which they won 26 games, tied 11 and only lost 9. Following 1–0 victories over Emelec in Quito and Guayaquil, Deportivo Quito earned its fifth star. Fans celebrated the long-awaited 2008 as well as the follow-up 2009 and 2011 championships in the popular Plaza del Teatro in Quito.\n\nTheir home games are played in the Estadio Olímpico Atahualpa in the city of Quito but there have been plans to build a stadium for the year 2010 on their current training grounds Ney Mancheno in Carcelén.\n\nOn November 13, 2008, Deportivo Quito's management presented the model of the new stadium. This stadium will have a capacity of 20,000 people. The building project includes the construction of a shopping mall attached to the same stadium that will serve as a source of revenue for the institution.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284352", "title": "Sweet Vengeance (album)", "text": "Sweet Vengeance (album)\n\nSweet Vengeance is the debut full-length studio album by the Greek/Swedish melodic death metal band Nightrage. It was released by Century Media Records on July 30, 2003. The demo versions of \"Ethereal Veils and Shrouds\", \"In My Heart of Hearts\" and \"The Tremor of Leaves in the Breeze\" were shortened to \"Ethereal\", \"In My Heart\" and \"The Tremor\" respectively.\n\nJapanese releases feature a bonus track, an extended demo version of \"Gloomy Daydreams\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284359", "title": "Quinto Martini (politician)", "text": "Quinto Martini (politician)\n\nQuinto Antonio Martini (August 15, 1908 – July 27, 1975) was a Canadian politician and real estate broker, born in Hamilton, Ontario.\n\nMartini was born in Hamilton on August 15, 1908, to Benito Martini and Palmina Rossi, both of whom were Italian. He attended St Ann's School in Hamilton, and then Hamilton Technical School. On June 25, 1931, he married Lucy Caiazzo, daughter of a real-estate broker.\n\nHe was elected Member of Parliament for Hamilton East in 1957, and lost his seat in 1962.\n"}
{"id": "2284364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284364", "title": "Panjshir Valley", "text": "Panjshir Valley\n\nThe Panjshir Valley (also spelled Panjsheer or Panjsher; – \"Dare-ye Panjšēr\"; literally \"Valley of the Five Lions\") is a valley in north-central Afghanistan, north of Kabul, near the Hindu Kush mountain range. It is divided by the Panjshir River. The valley is home to more than 100,000 people, including Afghanistan's largest concentration of ethnic Tajiks. In April 2004, it became the heart of the new Panjshir Province, having previously been part of Parwan Province.\n\nIt was the site of the Panjshir offensives fought between the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan and the Soviets against the mujahideen during the Soviet–Afghan War from 1980 to 1985, when local commander Ahmad Shah Massoud successfully defended the valley from being taken. The valley again witnessed renewed fighting during the 1996–2001 civil war between the Taliban and the Northern Alliance under the command of Massoud, where he again defended it from being overrun by the Taliban. As of 2016, the Panjshir Valley is considered one of Afghanistan's safest regions.\n\nThe name \"Panjshir\", literally meaning \"Five Lions\", widely believed that it refers to five Wali (literally, \"protectors\"), highly spiritual brothers who were centered in the valley. Local legend has it that the five brothers built a dam for Sultan Mahmud of Ghazni in the early 11th century AD. The foundations serve today for a modern reservoir. However, the name Panjshire was used by Arab invaders in the 7th century which means the legend of five Wali must have existed before the 11th century.\n\nThe Panjshir Valley has the potential to become a major centre of emerald mining. As early as the 1st century AD, Pliny the Elder commented on gemstones from the region. In the Middle Ages, Panjshir was famed for its silver mining and the Saffarids and Samanids minted their coins there. As of 1985, crystals upwards of had been found there, reported to rival in quality the finest crystals of the Muzo mine in Colombia. American reconstruction efforts in Afghanistan has sparked a development boom in the valley with the construction of new modern roads and a new radio tower that allows valley residents to pick up radio signals from the Afghan capital, Kabul. The valley has the potential of being an energy hub for Afghanistan, through construction of several electric dams. Rewat locality can be the site of the first electric dam. The valley can make the region around the Afghan capital electricity self-reliant. The construction of an asphalted road to the Badakhshan Province can contribute to the prosperity of the valley. Tourism can constitute another major source of income.\n\nThe Panjshir has always been an important highway. Nearly 100 km long, it leads to two passes over the Hindu Kush – the Khawak Pass (3,848 m) leading to the northern plains, and the Anjoman Pass (4,430 m) that crosses into Badakhshan – used by the armies of Alexander the Great and Timur.\n\nA 10-turbine wind farm was built in Panjshir Valley in April 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284374", "title": "Martin Van Buren High School", "text": "Martin Van Buren High School\n\nMartin Van Buren High School (MVBHS) is a public high school in Queens Village, New York. The school is operated by the New York City Department of Education.\n\nThe high school is accredited by the New York State Board of Regents. Of the school's graduates, 90% enroll in college.\n\nStudents may take a pre-med sequence of classes, a pre-engineering sequence of classes, or a law and forensics sequence of classes.\n\nThe school offers Advanced Placement classes in biology, calculus, English language, English literature, environmental science, Spanish, U.S. history, and world history. Students can take college-level courses on campus in government, economics, and algebra, and they can take classes at John Jay College of Criminal Justice, Queensborough Community College, and York College.\n\nThe New York State Department of Education had given Priority School status to Van Buren High School because of low graduation rates and low scores on state testing. On December 1, 2017, Van Buren High School was removed from Priority School status because its four-year graduation rates had increased. \n\nThere are 1,157 students enrolled at Martin Van Buren High School. Of the students, 49% are black, 27% are Asian, 18% are Latino, 9% are white, 9% are American Indian, and 2% are Pacific Islander. Students come from more than twenty countries. \n\nIn 1952, the New York City Board of Education approved the construction of a new high school at 229th Street and Hillside Avenue. Queens Village's population had greatly increased, and the school was needed to reduce overcrowding at Jamaica High School, Bayside High School, and Andrew Jackson High School. The Board of Education originally approved a budget of $3,000,000 for construction, but a few months later it increased the budget to $5,500,000. The budget was increased again to $6,000,000 (), making it the costliest school in New York City at the time.\n\nThe school was designed by Eliot B. Willauer of the notable architectural firm Eggers & Higgins, architects on the Thomas Jefferson Memorial, as part of the Board of Education's half-billion dollar post-World War II expansion program. The school was designed as a three-story building with 40 classrooms and a 1,120-seat auditorium, with a total school capacity of 3,000 students. The school would sit on 12 acres of land, 5.5 acres of which were for outdoor athletics. The official groundbreaking ceremony was held on January 6, 1954. Caristo Construction Corporation built the building. \n\nThe working name for the school had been East Queens High School, but before it opened the school was officially named Martin Van Buren High School, after the Martin Van Buren, the eighth president of the United States and the first U.S. president born in New York state. It opened to students on September 12, 1955.\n\nThis is a partial list of notable alumni of Martin Van Buren High School.\n"}
{"id": "2284385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284385", "title": "Aleem Dar", "text": "Aleem Dar\n\nAleem Dar (; born 6 June 1968) is a Pakistani cricket umpire and former cricketer. He is a member of the Elite Panel of ICC Umpires. He won the David Shepherd Trophy three years in a row from 2009 to 2011, after being nominated twice in 2005 and 2006. Aleem Dar, Marais Erasmus, Richard Kettleborough, Kumar Dharmasena and Simon Taufel were the only umpires to have received the award from its inception until 2017. Before becoming an umpire, he played first-class cricket as a right-handed batsman and a leg-break bowler for Allied Bank, Gujranwala Cricket Association, Lahore and Pakistan Railways.\n\nIn December 2019, in the first match between Australia and New Zealand, Aleem stood in his 129th Test match, breaking the record previously set by Steve Bucknor.\n\nAleem is best known as an international cricket umpire. He made his international umpiring debut in an ODI between Pakistan and Sri Lanka at Gujranwala on 16 February 2000. In 2002 he became a member of ICC's International Panel of umpires. He was chosen to umpire at the ICC Cricket World Cup.\n\nIn April 2004, he became the first Pakistani to be part of the Elite Panel of ICC Umpires. He was nominated for the ICC Umpire of the year Award in 2005 and 2006, beaten on both occasions by the Australian Simon Taufel. On 17 October 2007 Aleem umpired in his 100th ODI (between India and Australia at Mumbai), making him the tenth umpire in the history of cricket to reach that landmark. He reached the landmark in a record time, taking just seven years, and became the first Pakistani to officiate in a century of One Day Internationals.\n\nAleem has stood in a solitary India-Pakistan ODI match at Karachi 2006 and five Ashes Test matches. He was also one of the on-field umpires for the final of the 2006 ICC Champions Trophy, standing alongside Rudi Koertzen. He was appointed to stand in the final of the 2007 Cricket World Cup between Australia and Sri Lanka, where he officiated with Steve Bucknor. Dar was also selected to stand in the final of the 2010 ICC World Twenty20 between Australia and England .\n\nIn January 2005, Aleem and his colleague Steve Bucknor, received death threats during a Test match between England and South Africa at Centurion. He was also involved in a controversy during the 2007 Cricket World Cup final where he, along with fellow officials Bucknor, Koertzen, Bowden and Crowe incorrectly made Australia bowl three unnecessary overs in near darkness. Consequently, the ICC decided to suspend him, along with the other four officials, from duty for the next ICC event, which was the 2007 World Twenty20 Championship.\n\nAleem proved his accuracy at the 2011 Cricket World Cup when all the 15 Umpire Decision Review System appeals against him were struck down.\n\nHe was selected as one of the twenty umpires to stand in matches during the 2015 Cricket World Cup. In April 2019, he was named as one of the sixteen umpires to stand in matches during the 2019 Cricket World Cup. The following month, in the second match of the 2019 Ireland Tri-Nation Series, he became the third umpire, and first from Pakistan, to officiate in 200 ODIs.\n\nAfter being nominated twice in 2005 and 2006, Aleem finally won the Umpire of the Year award in October 2009, at the annual ICC awards ceremony in Johannesburg, South Africa. By claiming the award, Aleem ended Simon Taufel's run of five successive awards. It was the first time that any umpire other than Taufel had picked up the accolade in the six years that the ceremony has taken place. In October 2010, he won the award for a second straight year. In September 2011, he was named best umpire for the third consecutive year. On 14 August 2010, the Government of Pakistan honoured him with the President's Award for Pride of Performance.\nHe was honoured by ICC for officiating in 150 ODIs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284398", "title": "Hot Damn! (Every Time I Die album)", "text": "Hot Damn! (Every Time I Die album)\n\nHot Damn! is the second studio album by American metalcore band Every Time I Die.\n\nIn mid-December 2002, it was announced that the band had booked time to record their next album in February 2003, with the aim of releasing it in June. Recording took place at Trax East studios in South River, New Jersey with producer Eric Rachel. On February 13, it was announced that drums had been tracked and that progress on guitars was underway.\n\n\"Romeo a Go-Go\" is the lead track of this album. It mentions literary figures such as Milton, Shakespeare, Donne, and Chaucer. According to frontman Keith Buckley:\n\n\"At the time that we wrote the record, I was like finishing up at U.B., and I had to take like, a ton, a ton of literary courses because I was an English major and I had to take a ton of literary courses to get my degree in the amount of time I had. So, I was taking like, six literature courses. So I was taking like Milton and Shakespeare, and John Donne and Chaucer, like all at the same time. So that was pretty much pervasive in my life. Like, all that old literature. So, I mean, if there is somebody out there that would actually put the time into reading hardcore lyrics, which I doubt there is, then, you know, there is a lot of Shakespeare images in there, just because that was what I was reading at the time.\"\nFollowing recording, the band went on tour with Unearth and Evergreen Terrace in March 2003. Before embarking on another tour, the band filmed a music video with director Darren Doane for \"Ebolarama\". In April, the band performed a few shows with the Dillinger Escape Plan. In April and May, the band went on tour with Hopesfall, the Beautiful Mistake, and Celebrity. In May and June, the band went on tour with Give Up the Ghost. Throughout parts of tour, the Hope Conspiracy, Suicide File, My Chemical Romance and Black Cross performed on select dates. Following this, the band went on a UK tour with Nora. \"Hot Damn!\" was released in July 1 through Ferret Records. Following this, the band made an appearance at Hellfest. In late July and early August, the band went on tour with Throwdown, Terror, and Day of Contempt. Following this, the band went on tour with Comeback Kid for the remainder of August. In September and October, the band went on a US tour alongside From Autumn to Ashes, Cave In and Funeral for a Friend.\n\nIn early and mid-November, the band went on tour with Senses Fail. Following this, the band went on tour with Poison the Well in November and December. This Day Forward, ArmsBendBack, the Bronx, Nora and Codeseven appeared on select dates of the tour. The band performed a few US shows in late January 2004, before embarking on a European tour in February with Chimaira and Stampin' Ground. Prior to the tour, the group's manager put in a bid for them to play Ozzfest. Vocalist Keith Buckley said \"No one had their hopes up or anything, so we just focused on the tour.\" While on the tour, the band received a call \"saying it was looking real good, and by the time we got home it had already gone through. We were pretty blown away.\" On March 8, \"Hot Damn!\" was released in Europe by Roadrunner Records. It included two live recordings from Hellfest and a cover of the Guns N' Roses song \"I Used to Love Her\".\n\nThe band supported As I Lay Dying and the Black Dahlia Murder on their co-headlining tour of the US in March and April. The band performed a few shows in late April with Throwdown, Walls of Jericho and 36 Crazyfists, prior to headlining the New England Metal and Hardcore Festival. In May, the band went on tour of the US with Evergreen Terrace and the Kinison. On May 17, a music video for \"I Been Gone a Long Time\", directed by Greg Kaplan and Rafaela Monfradini, was posted online by Ferret Music. Between early July and early September, the band participated in the 2004 edition of Ozzfest, performing on the second stage. In between dates on the tour, the band performed a few shows with Lamb of God, Atreyu and Unearth. In addition, the band performed at the PigStock 10 festival in mid-August. From late September and early November, the band went on tour with the Dillinger Escape Plan, Zao and Misery Signals. In February 2005, the band supported Shadows Fall on their Extreme Dojo Vol. 12 tour in Japan, followed by a tour of Australia.\n\nThe album was reissued on vinyl as part of a box set along with \"Last Night in Town\" (2001) and \"Gutter Phenomenon\" (2005). The box set was released on December 12, 2006 through Suburban Home Records. Both \"Hot Damn!\" and \"Gutter Phenomenon\" were repressed in September 2008.\n\n\"Hot Damn!\" sold close to 4,000 copies two weeks after its release. Ferret Music founder Carl Severson spent two years promoting \"Last Night in Town\". Within five weeks, \"Hot Damn!\" had outsold \"Last Night in Town\". The music video for \"Ebolorama\" was nominated for Best Metal Video of the New Millennium by MTV.\n\n\nAlbum - \"Billboard\" (North America)\nCitations\nSources\n"}
{"id": "2284399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284399", "title": "Thomas Hambly Ross", "text": "Thomas Hambly Ross\n\nThomas Hambly Ross (February 25, 1886 – November 20, 1956) was a Canadian politician.\n\nBorn in Woodstock, Ontario, Ross was first elected in the 1940 election as the Liberal Member of Parliament for Hamilton East, receiving 47.4% of the vote and defeating Conservative incumbent Albert Brown. He was re-elected in the 1945 election, with a significantly reduced plurality of 37.5%.\n\nWith his third election in 1949, Ross received 39.9%. His final election in 1953 saw Ross returned to Ottawa with 45.2% of the vote.\n\nHe did not run in 1957.\n\n\"Sam Lawrence Park\" can be found on the western-end of Concession Street. Prior to 1944, this property was the Webb Quarry. In February 1944, The City of Hamilton was given of land for park use by Thomas Hambly Ross, MP (Hamilton East), and his wife Olive. The park was originally named Ross Park, then renamed Patton Park in 1946, in honour of captain John MacMillan Stevenson Patton, a Hamiltonian who risked his life during World War II by detonating an unexploded bomb. For this exploit he received the first George Cross for Valour. In 1960, the park was renamed to honour Sam Lawrence. During 1990 to 1994, Sam Lawrence Park underwent a major upgrading that included repairing the stone walls, installing new walkways, site lighting, site furniture, and the redevelopment of the major rock gardens.\n"}
{"id": "2284401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284401", "title": "Nasir Siddiki", "text": "Nasir Siddiki\n\nNasir K. Siddiki (born January 1, 1953 in London, Ontario) is a Canadian evangelist, author, and business consultant. \nSince September 2006, Siddiki has hosted a half-hour program on the Trinity Broadcasting Network called \"Winning with Wisdom.\" Siddiki, originally from Canada, was a marketing consultant executive at a financial services company before a bout with shingles in the 1980s, which he says sparked his conversion from Islam to Christianity. Siddiki is still a consultant, but has also started a ministry named Wisdom Ministries in Tulsa, Oklahoma where he resides with his second wife Anita, their two children Matthew and Josiah, and his oldest son Aaron from his first marriage.\n\nSiddiki primarily serves as a motivational speaker at conferences for Christian businessmen, but has also published a book titled \"Kingdom Principles of Financial Increase\" and subsequent pamphlets and videotapes. Siddiki has appeared with and been endorsed by Christian Ministers such as Benny Hinn, Rod Parsley (on his Breakthrough television program), and Kenneth Copeland.\n\nSiddiki graduated from the Rhema Bible Training College, the Bible training center in Broken Arrow, Oklahoma, founded by the son of Kenneth E. Hagin, and has an honorary doctorate from the American Bible College and Seminary in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.\n\n"}
{"id": "2284405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284405", "title": "Voyager: The Jugglers of Jusa", "text": "Voyager: The Jugglers of Jusa\n\nVoyager: The Jugglers of Jusa is the first remix album by darkwave band Sopor Aeternus & the Ensemble of Shadows, and was released in 1997. It was released as a companion to \"The inexperienced Spiral Traveller (aus dem Schoß der Hölle ward geboren die Totensonne)\", also released that year, and primarily features alternate versions of songs from that album. Only 3,000 copies of the album were pressed.\n\nLike the earlier EP \"Ehjeh Ascher Ehjeh\", \"Voyager\" consists of remixed versions of songs accompanied by some newer songs. Most of the remixed songs have had either their backing tracks removed, or had extra percussion and drum machines added. \"Never trust the Obvious\" receives two remixes: \"The Innocence of Devils: Alone\", which contains a recitation of author Edgar Allan Poe's \"Alone\"; and \"Alone II\", an extended version. The signature piece \"Birth - Fiendish Figuration\" is also featured as an instrumental; a remix of \"Saturn-Impressionen\" from \"Todeswunsch - Sous le soleil de Saturne\" also appears on this album.\n\nThe newer songs include \"Modela est\", a cover version of Kraftwerk's \"Das Model\" (\"The Model\"), sung in Latin; and \"Feralia Genitalia\", another ode to transsexualism as Anna-Varney Cantodea describes her \"genitals rotting off\" and her transformation into a woman.\n\n\"Voyager: The Jugglers of Jusa\" was re-released alongside \"Ehjeh Ascher Ehjeh\" and the demo tape \"Es reiten die Toten so schnell...\" as part of the rarities box set \"Like a Corpse Standing in Desperation\", due to costly prices for cheap copies of the album being sold on eBay. In the liner notes of the box set, Anna-Varney announces her outright hatred for \"Voyager\" by opening its section of liner notes with:\n\n... oh dear. What good thing could I possibly say about this most horrible piece of crap?!\n\nSimilar comments were made about \"The Inexperienced Spiral Traveller\". Cantodea, in the same essay, expresses her wishes to re-record the album at a future point. So far, only \"May I kiss your Wound ?\" has been re-recorded (for \"Songs from the Inverted Womb\"),while elements of \"Feralia Genitalia\" were re-used for \"Va(r)nitas, vanitas... (...omnia vanitas)\" on \"Dead Lovers' Sarabande (Face Two)\". \n\nShe rerecorded \"Alone\" on Poetica (All Beauty Sleeps), and she recorded some samples from Feralia Genitalia on her 2018 album The Spiral Sacrifice.\n\n"}
{"id": "2284411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284411", "title": "Brass Monkey (cocktail)", "text": "Brass Monkey (cocktail)\n\nBrass Monkey is a name given to a number of different cocktail recipes. As with many lesser-known cocktails that are named after colloquial expressions, there are widely differing recipes that share the same name.\n\nThe premixed cocktail labeled Brass Monkey was produced by the Heublein Company in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s. Heublein pre-mixed bottled cocktails were fairly inexpensive and provided a portable alternative to regular mixed drinks. Heublein was based in Stamford, Connecticut, and had production facilities in the Hartford, Connecticut area. The Brass Monkey cocktail was available in bottles from half pint up to 750 mL. At the time that the Brass Monkey cocktail was produced, liquor stores carried mostly beer, wine, and hard alcohol; there were very few premixed alternatives.\n\nThe drink was named by Steve Doniger, an advertising executive, after an alleged World War II spy named H. E. Rasske. The ad campaign was created by Allan Kaufman, who crafted a series of stories about the spy, using an old photo of his father as the image of Rasske.\n\nIn 1982, the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company acquired Heublein Inc. for $1.4 billion. RJR Nabisco sold the division to Grand Metropolitan in 1987. Grand Metropolitan merged with Guinness to form Diageo in 1997.\n\nSales and popularity of Heublein's Brass Monkey spirit cocktail increased in the 1980s after the release of the Beastie Boys's song of the same name. It was widely and incorrectly believed that the Beastie Boys were referring to a different drink made from a 40-ounce container of malt liquor mixed with orange juice (\"forty\" is mentioned in the lyrics). However, Mike D has publicly confirmed that the premixed Heublein cocktail was their muse.\n\nAfter several years of absence from the market the Brass Monkey premixed cocktail has recently been re-released as \"The Club Brass Monkey.\" Produced by The Club Distilling Company of Stamford Ct., Brass Monkey is currently sold in liquor stores along with other premixed alcoholic beverages under the name \"The Club Cocktails\" owned by Diageo.\n"}
{"id": "2284413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284413", "title": "USS Walker (DD-517)", "text": "USS Walker (DD-517)\n\nUSS \"Walker\" (DD-517), a \"Fletcher\"-class destroyer, was the second ship of the United States Navy to be named for Admiral John Grimes Walker (1835–1907).\n\n\"Walker\" was laid down on 31 August 1942 by the Bath Iron Works Corp., Bath, Maine; launched on 31 January 1943, sponsored by Miss Sarah C. Walker; and commissioned on 3 April 1943, Commander O. F. Gregor in command.\n\nThe first seven months of \"Walker\"'s service took place in the Atlantic where she was engaged in Caribbean escort duty and training exercises in preparation for Pacific combat duty. The highlights of this period included the capture on 7 August of 43 survivors of the which had been damaged by Navy air units off Cuba, and the responsibility of escorting the Secretary of State, Cordell Hull, from San Juan, Puerto Rico, to Casablanca to participate in the Moscow Conference of October 1943.\n\n\"Walker\" transited the Panama Canal on 1 November 1943 and proceeded to join the forces engaged in the conquest of Tarawa. After a month of operations in that area, the destroyer took part in the Marshall Islands campaign from 29 January through 8 February 1944. She joined forces at Funafuti for the invasion of Kwajalein; and, as part of a heavy cruiser bombardment unit, she participated in numerous neutralization bombardments at Wotje and Taroa. The only Japanese resistance encountered came from shore batteries which failed to hit their mark.\n\nFrom March through June 1944, \"Walker\" operated in the South Pacific escorting troops and transports from Guadalcanal to Bougainville and from various points in New Guinea. Other ports visited during this period were Purvis Bay, Tulagi; Empress Augusta Bay, Bougainville; Milne Bay and Buna, New Guinea.\n\nThe Marianas operation involved the invasion of Saipan, Tinian, and Guam by forces under Admiral Raymond A. Spruance. \"Walker\" began service assigned to an escort carrier unit providing air support for the amphibious forces headed for Guam. The group departed from Kwajalein in June; but, due to the bitterness of the campaign for Saipan, the Guam landings were postponed, and the ships returned to Eniwetok. After the need for further naval support had passed, \"Walker\" proceeded to Pearl Harbor for rehearsals of scheduled landings on Yap Island.\n\nLeaving Pearl Harbor in September, \"Walker\" was transferred to the 7th Fleet as a fire support ship for the invasion of the Philippines. This group of transports and destroyers sailed from Manus and arrived at Leyte Gulf on 20 October. During this operation, \"Walker\" experienced her first air action and downed one enemy fighter plane as well as provided gunfire support in the Dulag area. The transports were rapidly unloaded and departed with \"Walker\" and other escorts prior to the arrival of the Japanese naval forces and the ensuing Battle of Leyte Gulf from 24 to 25 October 1944.\n\nThe group proceeded to Morotai to reload support troops for Leyte. At Morotai, nightly Japanese air attacks harassed the ships but caused little damage. The group then returned to Leyte and unloaded its troops. Suicide air attacks and torpedo bombers were encountered during this trip, but no damage was suffered. After a brief stop at Palau, \"Walker\" received orders to return home, and she reached the Mare Island Navy Yard, San Francisco, California, on Christmas Eve 1944.\n\nThe most memorable part of \"Walker\"'s combat service began in mid-March 1945 when, fresh from navy yard overhaul, she joined Admiral Marc Mitscher's famed Task Force 58 (TF 58) at Ulithi, Caroline Islands. This force proceeded to Kyūshū and Honshū, Japan, for air strikes designed to neutralize and weaken Japanese air power.\n\nFollowing these strikes, TF 58 proceeded to Okinawa to support the amphibious assault launched there on 1 April 1945. While alone on picket duty 12 miles from the main group, \"Walker\" was subjected to persistent Japanese kamikaze attacks. One plane dropped a torpedo just after dark which passed close astern. During that night, \"Walker\"'s agile maneuvers and accurate guns beat off three more such attacks. On 7 April 1945, Paul Klahr, Gun Captain of 40 mm Gun 43 (starboard midship position), vividly recalls that a Zeke fighter circled the stern and began diving for the bridge from the starboard side of the \"Walker\". The Zeke passed forward of Klahr's gun position by about 20 feet allowing him and his crew to see the face of the pilot. He remembers the pilot's look of fear, facing his impending death. One member of his gun crew actually threw his helmet at the plane as it passed. The plane flew over the ship between the positions of the five inch guns Gun 1 and Gun 2 at an altitude low enough to part the lifelines on the port side before wheeling into the ocean and exploding, sending a solid sheet of water over the \"Walker\" mixed with debris from the plane and the shredded remains of its pilot.\n\nAfter 80 days at sea, the task group returned to port. During this period, \"Walker\" towed to Kerama Retto near Okinawa after she had been damaged by kamikaze hits.\n\nThe destroyer continued operations through July and August with the 3d Fleet and encountered no Japanese air opposition. \"Walker\" was among the ships which bombarded Kamaishi, Honshū, Japan, on 18 July and made a similar attack at Hammahatsu and a return trip to Kamaishi. The coming of peace resulted in \"Walker\" entering Tokyo after a period of air-rescue duty during the airborne phase of the occupation.\n\nOn 1 November 1945, \"Walker\" arrived from the forward area at San Pedro, California; and, on 31 May 1946, she was placed out of commission, in reserve, at San Diego.\n\nThe ship remained in \"mothballs\" until 15 September 1950 when she was recommissioned and converted to an escort destroyer. From the time of her recommissioning until 27 February 1951, \"Walker\" remained in yard overhaul.\n\nFollowing a shakedown cruise, the escort destroyer departed San Diego and participated in the atomic Exercise Greenhouse at Eniwetok until June 1951. The next month, the ship joined the newly formed Escort Destroyer Squadron 1 based at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. She remained in Hawaii until November 1951 when she sailed for the western Pacific and joined the United Nations Blockading Force assisting UN ground troops in the Korean War. She escorted the fast carrier task forces which were supporting ground units with strategic air strikes. Thus ended \"Walker\"'s Korean War service.\n\n\"Walker\" returned to Pearl Harbor during March 1952 and conducted type training and routine exercises for the next several months. On 2 June, the escort destroyer sailed for her second western Pacific deployment. From that time until 29 December 1963, \"Walker\" completed nine such deployments. These very active years were spent, for the most part, conducting antisubmarine warfare exercises and various operations with her task group and elements of the Republic of Korea Navy and the Japanese Maritime Self-Defense Force. \"Walker\"'s many \"People to People\" visits during this period helped to spread American good will abroad. Highlights of these years included assistance to the town of Koniya, Amami Ōshima, which had suffered major damage from a raging fire in September 1958 and as a recovery ship for a Project Mercury space flight on 28 September 1962.\n\nOn 4 January 1964, \"Walker\" commenced a two-week tender availability at Pearl Harbor with . On 31 January, the ship officially entered the Pearl Harbor Naval Shipyard for overhaul. The completion of yard overhaul on 30 April marked the commencement of local exercises in preparation for refresher training. On 19 May, \"Walker\" took part in the filming of the movie \"None But The Brave\" at the island of Kauai. After a month of refresher training and an administrative inspection, the escort destroyer underwent upkeep which took her through June.\n\nThe summer months found \"Walker\" engaged in local operations. On 17 August 1964, the ship continued her movie career with a supporting role in Otto Preminger's production of \"In Harm's Way\". During October and November, the escort destroyer underwent a pre-employment inspection and an operational readiness inspection which was concluded on 20 November, three days prior to departure for a western Pacific deployment.\n\nOn 3 December 1964, \"Walker\" arrived at Yokosuka, Japan, where she joined in Exercise Tall Back with the aircraft carrier , followed by duties on the Junk patrol which combatted the infiltration of arms into South Vietnam from North Vietnam and the People's Republic of China. During this period, the escort destroyer performed a month of uneventful duty on the Taiwan patrol.\n\n\"Walker\" participated in an artistic photo of Task Force 77 in 1965. \"Walker\" departed Vietnam waters on 27 April 1965 and, after a brief stop at Yokosuka, Japan, arrived at Pearl Harbor on 13 May. The remainder of May and June was spent in leave and upkeep. The escort destroyer spent the rest of the year in local operations. On 8 December, \"Walker\" was drydocked and spent the holiday season in leave and upkeep.\n\nJanuary 1966 saw the ship taking part in local operations and making preparations for an upcoming deployment. On 7 February, she commenced a six-month cruise, arriving at Yokosuka via Midway Atoll 10 days later. Duty in the South China Sea began on 28 February with assignments as a planeguard and as a naval gunfire support ship. \"Walker\"'s first offensive actions of the Vietnam War occurred on 5 March in support of United States and Allied forces. This assignment was interrupted by patrol duty in the Taiwan Strait and rest and rehabilitation at Keelung, Taiwan; and Hong Kong.\n\n\"Walker\" returned to Qui Nhơn, South Vietnam, on 22 April and began support missions, shooting direct fire at the Vietcong coastal supply areas and troop concentrations. The second ship on station, \"Walker\" received sporadic machine gunfire from the enemy ashore while a gig was returning with spotters and advisors to the ship for a briefing. This was the first time since World War II that \"Walker\" had been subjected to hostile fire.\n\nOn 26 April 1966, the escort destroyer supplied direct, indirect, harassment, and interdiction support for Operation Osage, a combined amphibious assault at Chu Lai. These duties were interrupted to escort a Marine Corps motor convoy from Da Nang to Phu Bai on 28 April. On 1 May, the ship detached and proceeded independently for repairs at Sasebo, Japan, via Buckner Bay, Okinawa.\n\n\"Walker\" set course on 17 May for Manila Bay, Philippines, where she joined in SEATO antisubmarine warfare Exercise Sea Imp which lasted until 6 June. The ship next joined for a month of patrol duty in the Taiwan Strait during which time she rescued a Nationalist Chinese fishing boat adrift for 48 hours. The escort destroyer returned to Yokosuka, Japan, on 8 July.\n\nInstead of departing for home, \"Walker\" received orders to replace in antisubmarine exercises in the Sea of Japan. These exercises included the Japan Maritime Self-Defense Force and naval units of the Republic of Korea. On 24 July, a Soviet \"Kotlin\"-class destroyer was sighted as it commenced shadowing the Allied group. \"Walker\" was designated to shoulder the Russian destroyer, and she was successful in preventing the attempted penetration of the screen by the Russian ship and her replacement. \"Walker\" also assumed duty on 29 July as a shadow against the Soviet electronics intelligence (Elint) trawler \"Izmeritel\".\n\nOn 1 August 1966, \"Walker\" detached and proceeded to Yokosuka from whence she began the transit to Hawaii. She arrived at Pearl Harbor on 10 August and made preparations for a yard overhaul. \"Walker\" entered the Pearl Harbor Naval Shipyard on 19 September and remained in overhaul status for the rest of calendar year 1966.\n\nRegular overhaul was completed on 3 February 1967, and type training exercises, refresher training, and an operational readiness evaluation followed. On 18 April, \"Walker\" departed Pearl Harbor en route to Japan. From 4 to 17 May, the task group embarked on a transit of the Sea of Japan to demonstrate antisubmarine and antiair capabilities with the Japanese Maritime Self-Defense Force.\n\nOn 10 May 1967, \"Walker\" relieved of screening duty for from the Soviet destroyer \"Besslednyy\" (022) which was attempting to close \"Hornet\" and harass the task group. A collision occurred between the two ships with minor damage sustained by both ships. The next day, \"Walker\" was again involved in screening duties with a Soviet ship. Late in the afternoon, a Soviet \"Krupnyy\"-class destroyer (\"025\") began to maneuver in an attempt to close \"Hornet\"; \"Walker\" effectively maneuvered the ship away. The Soviet destroyer than signaled a left turn. \"Walker\" signaled \"do not cross ahead of me.\" The Soviet ship came left and collided with \"Walker\" causing minor damage to both ships. Following exercises with the Republic of Korea Navy, \"Walker\" returned to Sasebo, Japan, and held a news conference and interviews on board concerning the Sea of Japan) incidents.\n\nThe escort destroyer arrived at the Gulf of Tonkin on 25 May 1967. \"Walker\" served in several capacities: providing call fire, harassment, and interdiction fire for airborne spotters; acting as a rescue destroyer for \"Hornet\", and ; and firing around-the-clock missions for numerous Army and Marine units.\n\nOn the evening of 15 July, while providing gunfire support south of Cape Batangan, \"Walker\" received notification that a North Vietnamese naval trawler (459) carrying arms was expected to attempt a landing in the vicinity. \"Walker\" provided gunfire support for the attack on the trawler and suppressed enemy fire from the beach. The trawler was beached by the crew and abandoned with large quantities of arms, ammunition, and demolition equipment recovered by American forces.\n\n\"Walker\" joined Operation Beacon Guide as a naval gunfire support ship on 20 July and provided preparation fire for the amphibious and helicopter assault south of Huế. After a brief tender availability at Taiwan, \"Walker\" returned to the Tonkin Gulf on 9 August and operated with (CVS-11) for a week prior to departure for Hong Kong.\n\nThe escort destroyer rejoined \"Hornet\", and the task group arrived at Hong Kong on 16 August, then transited to Sasebo, Japan, for repairs. \"Walker\" returned to the Gulf of Tonkin on 7 September and was detached three days later to proceed to the Paracel Islands in the South China Sea and conduct surveillance and gather intelligence data about the Chinese communist-held islands.\n\nUpon her return to the waters off Vietnam, \"Walker\" reported to for duty as her escort and spent the majority of September in various antisubmarine warfare exercises. On 27 September, \"Walker\" rejoined \"Hornet\" and rescued four survivors of an aircraft which had plunged into the water after losing an engine during launch.\n\nOn 1 October 1967, the escort destroyer returned to antisubmarine warfare (ASW) exercises, then headed for upkeep at Yokosuka prior to preceding to the eastern Pacific. \"Walker\" arrived at Pearl Harbor on 23 October and spent a month in post-deployment leave, type training, and a reserve cruise. Holiday leave commenced on 15 December.\n\n\"Walker\" spent the first seven months of 1968 in her home port conducting type training and preparing for a final western Pacific deployment. On 5 August, the escort destroyer got underway on the fourth western Pacific deployment since the beginning of the Vietnam War. She arrived at Subic Bay, Philippines, via Midway Atoll and Guam on 18 August, then proceeded to Vietnam.\n\nPlaneguard duty with was \"Walker\"'s first assignment. During her first night on station, she rescued a man overboard from \"America\". On 13 November, \"Walker\" was relieved and proceeded to Subic Bay for upkeep. On 1 December, the escort destroyer arrived at the area north of Vũng Tàu for gunline duty which ended on 15 December.\n\nAfter a fuel stop at Subic Bay, \"Walker\" continued to Cebu, Philippines, arriving on 18 December as part of Operation Handclasp. The ship returned to Subic Bay on 22 December for a five-day tender availability alongside . On 29 December, \"Walker\" returned to Vietnam for a week of planeguard duty with \"Constellation\" (CVA-64).\n\nOn 5 January 1969, the escort destroyer departed for visits to Hong Kong and Subic Bay. The ship joined three other destroyers and sailed for Australia and New Zealand. \"Walker\" and Taylor visited Wollongong and Melbourne, Australia; and Auckland, New Zealand, before arriving back at Pearl Harbor on 28 February. March was spent in leave; and, at the end of the month, \"Walker\" received word that she would be decommissioned.\n\nMay was spent in port at Pearl Harbor; but, on 2 June, \"Walker\" got underway for San Diego, the designated decommissioning site. On 2 July 1969, \"Walker\" was decommissioned and stricken from the Navy List.\n\nThe ship was sold to Italy, where she was renamed \"Fante\" (D 561). \"Fante\" was retired from Italian Navy service in 1977, and broken up for scrap.\n\n\"Walker\" earned six battle stars for World War II engagements, two for Korean War, and three for Vietnam War service.\n\nSee USS \"Walker\" for other ships of the same name.\n\n"}
{"id": "2284441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284441", "title": "WRDQ", "text": "WRDQ\n\nWRDQ, virtual and UHF digital channel 27, is an independent television station licensed to Orlando, Florida, United States. The station is owned by Atlanta-based Cox Media Group, as part of a duopoly with ABC affiliate WFTV (channel 9). The two stations share studios on East South Street in downtown Orlando; WRDQ's transmitter is located in Christmas, Florida. There is no separate website for WRDQ; instead, it is integrated with that of sister station WFTV.\n\nOn cable, the station is available in standard definition on channel 10 on Charter Spectrum, channel 20 on Comcast Xfinity, and channel 27 on CenturyLink Prism.\n\nThe station's original construction permit was issued as early as 1990. Channel 27 first signed on the air on April 23, 2000 under the ownership of Reece Associates Ltd., with WFTV (which has been owned by Cox since 1985) operating the station under a local marketing agreement (LMA); Reece was co-owned by former WFTV reporter/anchor Marsha Reece. Several months before WRDQ signed on, in August 1999, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) began allowing duopolies involving commercially licensed television stations, allowing Cox to exercise an option to acquire the station outright on February 1, 2001.\n\nOn May 24, 2011, Cox decided to use WRDQ to carry coverage of the Casey Anthony trial in full from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., with WFTV airing the last hour from 4 to 5 p.m., preempting the station's weekday programming schedule. High interest in the trial eventually led to coverage being increasingly shifted to WFTV (with WRDQ generally only airing \"more procedural\" and \"more dry or technical\" portions); on June 8, coverage was moved to WFTV entirely, after ABC granted Cox permission to move ABC Daytime programming to WRDQ for remainder of the trial's duration. It returned to WFTV upon the trial's conclusion. ABC Daytime was temporarily moved to WRDQ once more during WFTV's coverage of the George Zimmerman trial in 2013.\n\nFrom 2016 until 2019, WRDQ aired Orlando City SC soccer matches until WRBW began airing the matches starting in 2019.\n\nThe station's digital channel is multiplexed:\nOn April 14, 2008, the station launched a new digital sub-channel 27.2 to carry the Retro Television Network. On September 5, 2011, WRDQ replaced RTV with Antenna TV on its second digital subchannel. The RTV affiliation in Orlando then moved to a sub-channel of competitor WKMG-TV and later onto WRCF-CD. In June 2013, WRDQ added a third sub-channel 27.3. In January 2014, 27.3 was remapped as virtual channel 31.2 and used for a simulcast of Telemundo Orlando affiliate WTMO. On April 10, 2015, a fourth sub-channel 27.4 was added to accommodate the move of Grit TV from sister station WFTV.\n\nWRDQ shut down its analog signal, on UHF channel 27, on June 12, 2009, as part of the federally mandated transition from analog to digital television. The station's digital signal relocated from its pre-transition UHF channel 14 to channel 27 for post-transition operations.\n\nShortly after the station signed on, WFTV began producing a nightly half-hour 10 p.m. newscast for WRDQ (this resulted in the discontinuance of a prime time newscast in that same timeslot that WFTV had produced for then-UPN affiliate WRBW (channel 65) under a news share agreement); this program competes with an in-house newscast that runs for an hour on Fox owned-and-operated station WOFL (channel 35) and a newscast produced by NBC affiliate WESH that it produces for CW-affiliated sister station WKCF (channel 18).\n\nOn June 29, 2006, WFTV began broadcasting newscasts in high definition; the WRDQ shows were included in the upgrade.\n\nIn January 2007, WFTV also began producing a two-hour weekday morning newscast from 7:00-9:00 a.m. on channel 27. Prior to the debut of the morning newscast, the 10:00 p.m. news program was branded as \"Action News at 10\". This title was derived from WRDQ's general station branding (\"Action TV 27\") at the time of the station's launch (\"Action\" had ceased to be used as an overall station branding term several years before the newscast was renamed). WRDQ has also aired \"The Daily Buzz\" from 7:00-9:00 a.m. on digital subchannel 27.2, preempting some classic programming broadcast by Antenna TV that are seen on that slot nationally on that network's other affiliates. On two occasions, WRDQ has also aired early evening newscasts; a 7 p.m. newscast was produced for a time in March 2003 to present Iraq War coverage, and a 6:30 p.m. newscast was seen on the station from September 2010 until it was dropped in June 2013 in favor of a 4 p.m. newscast on WFTV. On September 15, 2014, WFTV expanded the weeknight 10:00 p.m. news on WRDQ to an hour, citing the ratings success of the broadcast in which has now able to tightly compete against long-time leader WOFL.\n\n"}
{"id": "2284444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284444", "title": "Northwestern Air", "text": "Northwestern Air\n\nNorthwestern Air is an airline based in Fort Smith, Northwest Territories, Canada. It operates scheduled passenger services to seven destinations in two territories/provinces, as well as undertaking ad hoc charters and long term charter contracts for various corporations throughout Canada and the USA.\nIts main base is Fort Smith Airport.\n\nThe airline was established in 1965 as a leasing company and started flying operations in 1968. It expanded to operate scheduled passenger services in 1984. It is wholly owned by the Harrold family and had more than 70 employees in September 2018.\n\nThe airline serves the following locations:\n\n\nAs of September 2019 the Northwestern Air fleet includes 14 aircraft registered with Transport Canada and 13 listed at the Northwestern Air web site:\n\nPreviously operated\n\n"}
{"id": "2284446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284446", "title": "Sebastes", "text": "Sebastes\n\nSebastes is a genus of fish in the family Sebastidae (though some include this in the Scorpaenidae), most of which have the common name of rockfish. A few are called ocean perch, sea perch or redfish, instead. Most of the \"Sebastes\" species live in the north Pacific, although two (\"S. capensis\" and \"S. oculatus\") live in the South Pacific/Atlantic and four (\"S. fasciatus\", \"S. mentella\", \"S. norvegicus\", and \"S. viviparus\") live in the North Atlantic. The coast off Southern California is the area of highest rockfish diversity, with 56 species living in the Southern California Bight.\n\nThe fossil record of rockfish goes back to the Miocene, with unequivocal whole body fossils and otoliths from California and Japan (although fossil otoliths from Belgium, \"\"Sebastes\"\" \"weileri\", may push the record back as far as the early Oligocene).\n\nRockfish are important sport and commercial fish, and many species have been overfished. As a result, seasons are tightly controlled in many areas. \"Sebastes\" species are sometimes fraudulently substituted for the more expensive northern red snapper (\"Lutjanus campechanus\").\n\nRockfish range from the intertidal zone to almost deep, usually living benthically on various substrates, often (as the name suggests) around rock outcrops. Some rockfish species are very long-lived, amongst the longest-living fish on earth, with several species known to surpass 100 years of age, and a maximum reported age of 205 years for \"S. aleutianus\".\n\nLike all carnivores, these fish can bioaccumulate some pollutants or radionuclides such as cesium. \nHighly radioactive rockfish have been caught in a port near Fukushima city, Japan, not far from the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant, nearly 2 years after the nuclear disaster (ex: 107000 Bq/kg (2013-02-12); 116000 Bq/kg (2013-02-13) and 132000Bq/kg (2013-02-13), respectively 1070, 1160, and 1320 times more than the maximum allowed by Japanese authorities (as updated on April 1, 2012)\n\nThe 109 recognized extant species in this genus are:\n\n"}
{"id": "2284455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284455", "title": "Hip Hop Honors", "text": "Hip Hop Honors\n\nThe Hip Hop Honors is an annual event that airs on VH1. The television special honors old school and golden age hip hop rappers and contributors for their long-term influence and importance in the history of hip hop culture. It features live performances by most of the honorees along with new school artists who have been influenced by them in tribute. The show is taped at the Hammerstein Ballroom in Manhattan, New York City.\n\nCommon attendees include Russell Simmons, Rick Rubin, MC Lyte, Chuck D, Beastie Boys, Common, KRS-One, Flavor Flav, Ice Cube, Dr. Dre, Ice-T, A Tribe Called Quest, Kanye West, Busta Rhymes, Snoop Dogg, Rev Run, Sean Combs, Doug E. Fresh, LL Cool J, Afrika Bambaataa, Wu-Tang Clan, and many more.\n\nThe award show is highly valued, above most hip hop award shows who base their honorees off of commercial value. Rather than for their historical significance.\n\nThe ceremony returned on July 11, 2016 in honor of the women of hip hop.\n\nThe first ceremony aired on October 12, 2004 and was hosted by Vivica A. Fox and MC Lyte.\n\n\n\n\nThe second ceremony aired on September 26, 2005, hosted by Russell Simmons and Rev. Run.\n\n\n\n\nThe third aired on October 17, 2006 with host Ice-T.\n\n\n\n\nThe fourth show aired October 8, 2007, and was hosted by Tracy Morgan.\n\n\n\n\nThe fifth show aired October 6, 2008 and was hosted by Tracy Morgan.\n\n\n\n\nThe sixth show aired October 13, 2009 and was hosted by Tracy Morgan.\n\n\n\n\nThe seventh Hip Hop Honors aired on June 7, 2010, hosted by Craig Robinson. The ceremony featured various artists from the 'Dirty South.' \n\n\n\nUncle Luke Tribute with DJ Buddha, including a medley of the following songs and performers:\nJ. Prince/Rap-a-Lot Tribute with DJ Domination, including a medley of the following songs and performers:\nJermaine Dupri Tribute with DJ Lil Jon, including a medley of the following songs and performers:\nMaster P Tribute with DJ Kid Capri, including a medley of the following songs and performers:\nAtlanta Medley with DJ Drama, including the following songs and performers:\nTimbaland Tribute with DJ Freestyle Steve, including a medley of the following songs and performers:\nTexas Medley with DJ Michael 5000 Watts, including the following songs and performers:\n2 Live Crew Tribute with DJ Mixx, including a medley of the following songs and performers:\nOrganized Noize Tribute with DJ Jelly, including a medley of the following songs and performers:\nMiami Medley with DJ Khaled, including the following songs and performers:\n\nThe eighth Hip Hop Honors aired on July 11, 2016 hosted by Eve. This show honored the women of hip-hop.\n\n\n\nQueen Latifah Tribute by Naughty by Nature:\n\nThe ninth and most recent Hip Hop Honors aired on September 18, 2017 hosted by Regina King. This show honored the 90's Game Changers.\n\n\n\n\nMobb Deep Tribute:\n\n\n'90s Party Anthems Medley, including the following songs and performers:\n\n\nJermaine Dupri & Master P Tribute, including a medley of the following songs and performers:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284475", "title": "WOPX-TV", "text": "WOPX-TV\n\nWOPX-TV, virtual channel 56 (UHF digital channel 14), is an Ion Television owned-and-operated station serving Orlando, Florida, United States that is licensed to Melbourne. The station is owned by West Palm Beach-based Ion Media Networks (the former Paxson Communications). WOPX-TV's offices are located on Grand National Drive in Orlando, and its transmitter is located on Nova Road east of St. Cloud.\n\nWAYK signed on December 30, 1985 as an independent station. In 1988, Beach TV Partners signed on WAYQ at channel 26 as a simulcast of WAYK, giving them a signal in Daytona Beach. In early August 1990, owner Beach Television Partners based in Vero Beach filed for Chapter 11 reorganization over an inability to renegotiate a loan payment schedule. At the time, the station was only carried part-time on CableVision of Central Florida, Orlando's major cable system. WAYK was affiliated with the Beach TV investor, Harry Handley, who founded the Star Television Network. The network launched in September 1990 only to close down on .\n\nIn 1992, the stations were both sold to Robert Rich, who added more paid programming to the channels. WAYK became WIRB, and WAYQ became WNTO. WIRB continued as a low budget independent station but also aired some NBC programs that were not cleared by WESH most notably \"Leeza\" (before it went into syndication) and \"California Dreams\". WIRB would broadcast Florida Marlins baseball, Florida Panthers hockey, and Tampa Bay Lightning hockey to Central Florida from around 1993–1996. In 1996, Christian Television Network would buy WIRB (Paxson Communications, the predecessor to Ion Media Networks, took a LMA on the station at the same time) while Florida Media Broadcasters would buy WNTO (which would be later sold to Entravision and became Univision affiliate WVEN). WIRB then ran religious shows in the morning, infomercials in the afternoon and evening, and Christian praise and worship music on overnights in addition to the NBC programs not cleared by WESH.\n\nIn January 1998, Paxson bought the station from CTN and renamed it WOPX (the -TV callsign would be added in 2012) and continued with the same format until August 31, 1998. At that point, WOPX took the Pax TV affiliation along with other stations owned by Paxson. Pax TV introduced family entertainment like dramas, movies, reality shows aimed at the family, game shows and other programming.\nOriginally, Pax TV ran from noon to midnight, but has since reduced its schedule several times. At one point, it ran from 6 p.m. to 11 p.m., and there are no original programs on the network, which has been renamed Ion Television. WOPX still fills the rest of its schedule with infomercials and religious shows. WOPX of recent has also carried Tampa Bay Rays baseball and Tampa Bay Lightning hockey from Ion's Tampa affiliate and produced by Fox Sports.\n\nOn September 4, 2004, WOPX aired the NASCAR Xfinity Series (then Busch) race from California Speedway due to local NBC (who at that time broadcast NBS races) affiliate WESH's coverage of Hurricane Francis.\n\nUntil the summer of 2005, WOPX had a JSA with WESH, which, during that time, WOPX aired a rebroadcast of WESH's 6 p.m. newscast at 7 p.m.. In July 2005, Paxson dissolved all relationships with other stations, mostly NBC stations—at that time, WESH's news repeats on WOPX ended.\n\nOn December 15, 2014, Ion reached a deal to donate WOPX-TV's low-power repeater in Daytona Beach, WPXB-LD (channel 50), to Word of God Fellowship, parent company of the Daystar network.\n\nWOPX-TV shut down its analog signal, over UHF channel 56, on June 12, 2009, the official date in which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The station's digital signal continued to broadcasts on its pre-transition UHF channel 48. Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display the station's virtual channel as its former UHF analog channel 56, which was among the high band UHF channels (52-69) that were removed from broadcasting use as a result of the transition.\n\n"}
{"id": "2284481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284481", "title": "Tauri", "text": "Tauri\n\nThe Tauri (; in Ancient Greek), or Taurians, also Scythotauri, Tauri Scythae, Tauroscythae (Pliny, \"H. N.\" 4.85) were a people settled on the southern coast of the Crimea peninsula, inhabiting the Crimean Mountains in the 1st millennium BC and the narrow strip of land between the mountains and the Black Sea. According to the sources, Taurians lived in Crimean peninsula for the first time and never abandoned its borders. They gave their name to the peninsula, which was known in ancient times as \"Taurica\", \"Taurida\" and \"Tauris\".\n\nTaurians intermixed with the Scythians starting from the end of 3rd century BC, and were mentioned as Tauroscythians and Scythotaurians in the works of ancient Greek writers. The Taurians underwent the rule of the Pontic Kingdom in the 2nd century BC. As a result of Roman occupations, Taurians were romanized in the first century AD. Later the Taurians were subsumed by the Alans and Goths, and existed till the 4th century.\n\nIn his \"Histories\", Herodotus describes the Tauri as living \"by plundering and war\". They became famous for their worship of a virgin goddess, to whom they sacrificed shipwrecked travellers and waylaid Greeks. He makes a point of them living in Scythia geographically without themselves being Scythians. In Geographica, Strabo refers to the Tauri as a Scythian tribe.\n\nThe Greeks identified the Tauric goddess with Artemis Tauropolos or with Iphigeneia, daughter of Agamemnon. The Tauric custom of human sacrifice inspired the Greek legends of Iphigeneia and Orestes, recounted in \"Iphigeneia in Tauris\" by the playwright Euripides. The original greek title given by Euripides literally means \"Iphigeneia among the taurians\". Such place as \"Tauris\" does not exist.\n\nAccording to Herodotus, the manner of their sacrifice was to beat the head with a club and remove the head; then they either buried the body or threw it off a cliff, and lastly nailed the head to a cross. Prisoners of war likewise had their heads removed, and the head was then put onto a tall pole and placed at their house \"in order that the whole house may be under their protection\".\n\nAlthough the Crimean coast eventually came to be dominated by Greek (and subsequently Roman) colonies, notably the one at Chersonesos, the Tauri remained a major threat to Greek power in the region. They engaged in piracy against ships on the Black Sea, mounting raids from their base at Symbolon (today's Balaklava). By the 2nd century BC they had become subject-allies of the Scythian king Scilurus.\n\nIn the 4th century AD, the historian Ammianus Marcellinus, mentioned the names of the 3 tribes (Arichi, Sinchi, and Napaei) of the Taurians known for their \"extraordinary severity\".\n\nTaurians also played a major role in the development and settlement of the Kizil-Koban Culture (KKC) in the 8th-4th century BC. Osmolovsky, who conducted a research in the Krasnaya (Red) Cave in 1921, pointed out that the arrowheads, ceramics and necklaces found in the Cave were owned by the Taurians. There are several evidence that this culture belongs to the Tauris, such as:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284489", "title": "Jay Johnston", "text": "Jay Johnston\n\nJay Johnston (born October 22, 1968) is an American actor and comedian best known for his work as a writer and cast member on the HBO sketch comedy series \"Mr. Show\" and for playing the role of Officer Jay McPherson on \"The Sarah Silverman Program\".\n\nJohnston was born and raised in Chicago. He attended Columbia College Chicago, where he studied acting and comedy alongside other future \"Mr. Show\" alumni such as Dino Stamatopoulos, Scott Adsit and Eric Hoffman. After graduating college, Johnston later joined the Chicago Second City's touring comedy for a number of years and also performed in stage shows at the Annoyance Theater in Chicago.\n\nJay Johnston's contribution to \"Mr. Show\" were generally of the \"evergreen\" variety, dealing with more or less universal themes as opposed to the more political and socially satirical material that his fellow writers and performers contributed to the series. As such, Jay was responsible for many of the show's memorable sketches and characters. Johnston often incorporated physical comedy into the show, most notably in \"The Story of Everest\" sketch, which features Johnston performing six identical backwards pratfalls into furniture.\n\nSince the conclusion of \"Mr. Show\", Johnston has made guest appearances in a number of television programs such as \"Arrested Development\", \"Community\", \"Curb Your Enthusiasm\", and \"Parks and Recreation\", as well as appearing in films such as \"\" and \"Tenacious D in The Pick of Destiny\".\n\nIn 2006, Johnston regularly appeared as \"The Boss\" on FUEL TV's \"American Misfits\", in the show's intro and outro sketch segments. The show is a half-hour mix of skateboarding and sketches, very much in the mold of the early 1990s skateboarding videos.\n\nJohnston starred on all three seasons of Comedy Central's \"The Sarah Silverman Program\" as \"Officer Jay McPherson\", the love interest of Sarah's sister Laura in the series. The series reunited Johnston with \"Mr. Show\" cast members Brian Posehn, Scott Aukerman, B. J. Porter, and Paul F. Tompkins. In 2011, Johnston appeared as a sketch regular in season two of the Comedy Central sketch comedy series \"Nick Swardson's Pretend Time\".\n\nJohnston and fellow \"Mr. Show\" regulars Dino Stamatopoulos and Scott Adsit, were part of the creative team (voicing, writing, directing and producing) behind Adult Swim's stop-motion animation series \"Moral Orel\", which ran from 2005 to 2008. In 2010, Johnston provided voices for Stamatopoulos' Adult Swim series, \"Mary Shelley's Frankenhole\".\n\nJohnston currently has a recurring voice role as Jimmy Pesto, Sr. in the FOX animated series \"Bob's Burgers\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2284491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284491", "title": "Richard Skinner (broadcaster)", "text": "Richard Skinner (broadcaster)\n\nRichard Skinner (born 26 December 1951 in Portsmouth, Hampshire) is a British broadcaster.\n\nHe was the opening announcer and TV anchor at the Live Aid concert in 1985, and is the only presenter to have fronted all three of the BBC's leading pop music programmes, \"The Old Grey Whistle Test\" and \"Top of the Pops\" on television and the Radio One Top 40 show.\n\nSkinner grew up in Portsmouth where he attended Portsmouth Grammar School. He was a founder member of Portsmouth Hospital Broadcasting, which first went on air in April 1970. After studying newspaper journalism at Highbury Technical College. he began his career at the local paper \"The News\". He then moved to the \"Erith Observer\" newspaper in Kent and at the same time appeared briefly on BBC Radio Medway, before joining the staff of BBC Radio Solent in October 1971 as a presenter of music programmes (including the weekly pop show \"Beat 'n Track\") and as a newsreader.\n\nSkinner joined BBC Radio 1 in the autumn of 1973 as one of the original presenters of \"Newsbeat\". He continued in this role until 1980, when he became a regular presenter of music programmes for Radio 1, taking over the Monday-Thursday evening show from Mike Read in the December. At the same time Skinner continued with \"Newsbeat\" as a studio producer and also worked as an in-vision continuity announcer for Thames Television. According to Skinner, during his time working on \"Newsbeat\" he broke the news of the death of John Lennon to Paul McCartney's household by phone in the early hours of 9 December 1980.\n\nIn late 1981, Skinner became presenter of Radio 1's \"Rock On\" magazine show on Saturday afternoons and \"Roundtable\" on Friday evenings, on which he and guests would review the week's new releases. He continued with the programme until late 1985. In addition to \"Roundtable\", from 1983 Skinner presented the \"Saturday Live\" show from 4 to 6:30pm alongside Andy Batten-Foster.\n\nOn 30 September 1984, 17 years to the day after Radio 1 began, Skinner took over the Sunday afternoon Top 40 show, also broadcast on FM, on the same day that David Jensen, who had just left Radio 1, started presenting \"The Network Chart Show\" on commercial radio in competition.\n\nOn BBC television, he presented \"Top of the Pops\" and \"The Old Grey Whistle Test\", and also played two roles in the Band Aid and Live Aid phenomenon of the 1980s.\n\nInstead of publicising new Boomtown Rats release as planned, Bob Geldof announced the creation of the Band Aid project on Skinner's Radio 1 show in 1984.\n\nThen on 13 July 1985, Skinner made the opening announcement at Live Aid (\"It's twelve noon in London ...\") as the event got underway. He also fronted the first hours of BBC TV's Bafta Award-winning coverage.\n\nIn 2018, Skinner's original Live Aid opening announcement was featured in the remarkable recreation of the concert in the Oscar Award winning Queen bio-pic 'Bohemian Rhapsody'.\n\nIn the spring of 1986, Skinner left Radio 1 for a while to join Capital Radio, and was replaced on the chart show by Bruno Brookes. At Capital, he presented on its FM Album Rock station CFM and hosted \"The Way It Is\" - Capital's equivalent of Radio 1's \"Newsbeat\".\n\nIn October 1988, when Radio 1 - which had acquired its own FM transmitters - extended its hours, Skinner rejoined the station to host a midnight show to play an eclectic mix of album-orientated music. In late 1989, Skinner took over the Saturday afternoon Radio 1 show the 'Saturday Sequence' from Roger Scott following the latter's early death from cancer. In 1991 Skinner also took over the helming of Scott's series Classic Albums.\n\nIn April 1990, he left the midnight show to be replaced by Bob Harris, but continued with the \"Saturday Sequence\", where he remained until 1991, when Johnnie Walker took over.\n\nFrom the turn of the 1990s, while still at Radio 1, Skinner also presented a daily show on BBC GLR, an eclectic mix of music, recorded and live, and live interviews from pop to politics. This continued until the end of December 1992.\n\nOn 1 January 1993, he joined the launch team at Virgin Radio, working as joint programme director, head of music and mid-morning presenter. On launch day 30 April 1993, he hosted the station's first programme. His weekday morning show ran from then until the autumn of 1996.\n\nAfter a short spell at London's Liberty Radio as breakfast presenter alongside Carol McGiffin, in 1997 Skinner joined London's Melody FM, which later became Magic 105.4, presenting the mid-morning show for six years until September 2003. In August 2013 Skinner returned to Magic 105.4 to provide cover for holidaying presenters. Skinner also continued to provide cover in 2014.\n\nIn late 2003, Skinner was freelancing at the south-coast station Wave 105. Then in early 2004 he rejoined Virgin Radio on the London digital station Virgin Radio Classic Rock, where he hosted the mid-morning show, which was initially recorded, but broadcast live from mid-2005. During this period, he provided holiday cover on Virgin Radio. He left when live programming on Virgin Radio Classic Rock was abandoned in December 2005.\n\nAfter freelancing on the Classic Gold network, in April 2006 Skinner joined BBC Radio Berkshire to host the Saturday and Sunday mid-morning programmes. During this time he also covered for holidaying presenters. He left on 6 January 2008.\n\nIn January 2008, Skinner joined Original 106 as mid-morning presenter and remained in the slot until November 2008, when the station was rebranded as The Coast by its new owners Celador. He briefly moved to weekend afternoons before leaving the station in December 2008.\n\nSkinner joined Xfm, now known as Radio X, in January 2009 to present the station's networked mid-morning show in London and Manchester - leaving at the end of August 2011.\n\nIt was announced in an Absolute Radio press release on 18 October 2011 that Richard Skinner would be part of the launch of Absolute Radio 70s. He hosted the opening show for the station at 10am on 29 November.\n\nSkinner is married to Deborah and has two sons - Christopher (born 1977) and Jamie (born 1996).\n"}
{"id": "2284499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284499", "title": "Very Necessary", "text": "Very Necessary\n\nVery Necessary is the fourth studio album by American hip hop girl group Salt-N-Pepa. It was released on October 12, 1993, by Next Plateau Records and London Records. The album spawned four singles, including \"Shoop\" (their first top-five single on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, peaking at number four), \"Whatta Man\" (featuring En Vogue, their highest-peaking single at number three), and \"None of Your Business\", which would earn the group their first Grammy Award, in the category Best Rap Performance by a Duo or Group.\n\n\"Very Necessary\" peaked at number four on the \"Billboard\" 200, and has been certified five-times platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), denoting sales in excess of five million copies in the United States.\n\nNotes\n\nSamples\n"}
{"id": "2284519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284519", "title": "Stepper", "text": "Stepper\n\nA stepper is a device used in the manufacture of integrated circuits (ICs) that is similar in operation to a slide projector or a photographic enlarger. The term \"stepper\" is short for step-and-repeat camera. Steppers are an essential part of the complex process, called photolithography, that creates millions of microscopic circuit elements on the surface of tiny chips of silicon. These chips form the heart of ICs such as computer processors, memory chips, and many other devices.\n\nBefore steppers, wafers were exposed by mask aligners, that pattern the entire wafer at once. Elements of the circuit to be created on the IC are reproduced in a pattern of transparent and opaque areas on the surface of a quartz plate called a photomask or reticle. The stepper passes light through the reticle, forming an image of the reticle pattern. The image is focused and reduced by a lens, and projected onto the surface of a silicon wafer that is coated with a photosensitive material called photoresist.\n\nAfter exposure in the stepper, the coated wafer is developed like photographic film, causing the photoresist to dissolve in certain areas according to the amount of light the areas received during exposure. These areas of photoresist and no photoresist reproduce the pattern on the reticle. The developed wafer is then exposed to acids or other chemicals. The acid etches away the silicon in the parts of the wafer that are no longer protected by the photoresist coating. The other chemicals are used to change the electrical characteristics of the silicon in the bare areas. The wafer is then cleaned, recoated with photoresist, then passed through the stepper again in a process that creates the circuit on the silicon, layer by layer. The entire process is called photolithography or photo engineering.\n\nWhen the wafer is processed in the stepper, the pattern on the reticle (which may contain a number of individual chip patterns) is exposed repeatedly across the surface of the wafer in a grid. The stepper gets its name from the fact that it moves or \"steps\" the wafer from one shot location to another. This is accomplished by moving the wafer back and forth and left and right under the lens of the stepper. Previous generations of photolithographic equipment would expose the entire wafer, all at once; a stepper, working on a limited area, is capable of higher resolution.\n\nAs of 2008, the most detailed patterns in semiconductor device fabrication are transferred using a type of stepper called a scanner, which moves the wafer and reticle with respect to each other during the exposure, as a way of increasing the size of the exposed area and increasing the imaging performance of the lens.\n\nA typical stepper has the following subassemblies: wafer loader, wafer stage, wafer alignment system, reticle loader, reticle stage, reticle alignment system, reduction lens, and illumination system. Process programs for each layer printed on the wafer are executed by a control system centering on a computer that stores the process program, reads it, and communicates with the various subassemblies of the stepper in carrying out the program's instructions. The components of the stepper are contained in a sealed chamber that is maintained at a precise temperature to prevent distortions in the printed patterns that might be caused by expansion or contraction of the wafer due to temperature variations. The chamber also contains other systems that support the process, such as air conditioning, power supplies, control boards for the various electrical components, and others.\n\nThe silicon wafers are coated with photoresist, and placed in a cassette or \"boat\" that holds a number of wafers. This is then placed in a part of the stepper called the wafer loader, usually located at the lower front of the stepper.\n\nA robot in the wafer loader picks up one of the wafers from the cassette and loads it onto the wafer stage where it is aligned to enable another, finer alignment process that will occur later on.\n\nThe pattern of the circuitry for each chip is contained in a pattern etched in chrome on the reticle, which is a plate of transparent quartz. A typical reticle used in steppers is 6 inches square and has a usable area of 104mm by 132mm.\n\nA variety of reticles, each appropriate for one stage in the process, are contained in a rack in the reticle loader, usually located at the upper front of the stepper. Before the wafer is exposed a reticle is loaded onto the reticle stage by a robot, where it is also very precisely aligned. Since the same reticle can be used to expose many wafers, it is loaded once before a series of wafers is exposed, and is realigned periodically.\n\nOnce the wafer and reticle are in place and aligned, the wafer stage, which is moved very precisely in the X and Y directions (front to back and left to right) by worm screws or linear motors, carries the wafer so that the first of the many patterns (or \"shots\") to be exposed on it is located below the lens, directly under the reticle.\n\nAlthough the wafer is aligned after it is placed on the wafer stage, this alignment is not sufficient to ensure that the layer of circuitry to be printed onto the wafer exactly overlays previous layers already there. Therefore, each shot is aligned using special alignment marks that are located in the pattern for each final IC chip. Once this fine alignment is completed, the shot is exposed by light from the stepper's illumination system that passes through the reticle, through a reduction lens, and on to the surface of the wafer. A process program or \"recipe\" determines the length of the exposure, the reticle used, as well as other factors that affect the exposure.\n\nEach shot located in a grid pattern on the wafer and is exposed in turn as the wafer is stepped back and forth under the lens. When all shots on the wafer are exposed, the wafer is unloaded by the wafer loader robot, and another wafer takes its place on the stage. The exposed wafer is eventually moved to a developer where the photoresist on its surface is exposed to developing chemicals that wash away areas of the photoresist, based on whether or not they were exposed to the light passing through the reticle. The developed surface is then subjected to other processes of photolithography.\n\nThe greatest limitation on the ability to produce increasingly finer lines on the surface of the wafer has been the wavelength of the light used in the exposure system. As the required lines have become narrower and narrower, illumination sources producing light with progressively shorter wavelengths have been put into service in steppers and scanners. An alternative to conventional light based lithography is nanoimprint lithography. \n\nThe ability of an exposure system, such as a stepper, to resolve narrow lines is limited by the wavelength of the light used for illumination, the ability of the lens to capture light (or actually orders of diffraction) coming at increasingly wider angles (called numerical aperture or N.A.), and various improvements in the process itself. This is expressed by the following equation:\n\nformula_1\n\nformula_2 is the critical dimension, or finest line resolvable, formula_3 is a coefficient expressing process-related factors, formula_4 is the wavelength of the light, and formula_5 is the numerical aperture. Decreasing the wavelength of the light in the illumination system increases the resolving power of the stepper.\n\nTwenty years ago, the ultraviolet \"g-line\" (436 nm) of the mercury spectrum was used to create lines in the 750 nm range in steppers that employed mercury lamps as their illumination source. Several years later systems employing the \"i-line\" (365 nm) from mercury lamps were introduced to create lines as low as 350 nm. As the desired line widths approached and eventually became narrower than the wavelength of the light used to create them, a variety of resolution enhancement techniques were developed to make this possible, such as phase shifting reticles and various techniques for manipulating the angles of the exposure light in order to maximize the resolving power of the lens.\n\nEventually however, the desired line widths became narrower than what was possible using mercury lamps, and near the middle of the 2000s, the semiconductor industry moved towards steppers that employed krypton-fluoride (KrF) excimer lasers producing 248 nm light. Such systems are currently being used to produce lines in the 110 nm range. Lines as low as 32 nm are being resolved by production-capable steppers using argon-fluoride (ArF) excimer lasers that emit light with a wavelength of 193 nm. Although fluoride (F2) lasers are available that produce 157 nm light, they are not practical because of their low power and because they quickly degrade photoresist and other materials used in the stepper.\n\nSince practical light sources with wavelengths narrower than these lasers have not been available, manufacturers have sought to improve resolution by reducing the process coefficient formula_3. This is done by further improving techniques for manipulating the light as it passes through the illumination system and the reticle, as well as improving techniques for processing the wafer before and after exposure. Manufacturers have also introduced ever larger and more expensive lenses as a means of increasing the numerical aperture. However, these techniques are approaching their practical limit, and line widths in the 45 nm range appear to be near the best that can be achieved with conventional design.\nUltimately, other sources of illumination will have to be put to use, such as electron beams, x-rays or similar sources of electromagnetic energy with wavelengths much shorter than visible light. However, in order to delay as long as possible the vast expense and difficulty of adopting a whole new type of illumination technology, manufacturers have turned to a technique, previously used in microscopes, for increasing the numerical aperture of the lens by allowing the light to pass through water instead of air. This method, called immersion lithography, is the current cutting edge of practical production technology. It works because numerical aperture is a function of the maximum angle of light that can enter the lens and the refractive index of the medium through which the light passes. When water is employed as the medium, it greatly increases numerical aperture, since it has a refractive index of 1.44 at 193 nm, while air has an index of 1. Current production machines employing this technology are capable of resolving lines in the 32 nm range, and may eventually be able to achieve lines of 30 nm.\n\nModern scanners are steppers that increase the length of the area exposed in each shot (the exposure field) by moving the reticle stage and wafer stage in opposite directions to each other during the exposure. Instead of exposing the entire field at once, the exposure is made through an \"exposure slit\" that is as wide as the exposure field, but only a fraction of its length (such as a 9x25 mm slit for a 35x25 mm field). The image from the exposure slit is scanned across the exposure area.\n\nThere are several benefits to this technique. The field can be exposed with a lesser reduction of size from the reticle to the wafer (such as 4x reduction on a scanner, compared with 5x reduction on a stepper), while allowing a field size much larger than that which can be exposed with a typical stepper. Also the optical properties of the projection lens can be optimized in the area through which the image of the projection slit passes, while optical aberrations can be ignored outside of this area, because they will not affect the exposed area on the wafer.\n\nSuccessful scanning requires extremely precise synchronization between the moving reticle and wafer stages during the exposure. Accomplishing this presents many technological challenges.\n\n\nStepper makers:\n"}
{"id": "2284527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284527", "title": "Guangzhou Uprising", "text": "Guangzhou Uprising\n\nThe Guangzhou Uprising, Canton Uprising or Canton Riots of 1927 was a failed communist uprising in the city of Guangzhou (Canton) in southern China.\n\nThe Communist Party of China (CPC)'s Guangdong Provincial Committee had been preparing for an uprising in Guangzhou since September 1927. It originally planned to use a large group of communist-leaning soldiers who were heading into Guangdong after taking part in the failed Nanchang uprising. According to these plans, local workers and peasants were supposed to act as auxiliaries, while the soldiers would bear the brunt of the fighting. The troops from Nanchang were defeated at Shantou in early October, however, precluding any attempt to utilise them in the Guangzhou Uprising. CPC party head Qu Qiubai consequently decided that the communists had to persuade soldiers who were stationed in Guangdong to join their cause. Upon receiving orders from Joseph Stalin to launch the planned uprising in mid-December, over the course of November, a final plan for rebellion was worked out by the central party leadership and Guangdong secretary Zhang Tailei in Shanghai. Originally, the Chinese communist leadership opposed the plans, and made representations to the Soviet government to the effect that they had no chance at winning control of Guangzhou, but ultimately gave in to Soviet pressure. The CPC thought that fighting between the Kuomintang-aligned warlords Zhang Fakui and Li Jishen was imminent in Guangdong, potentially providing them with an opportunity to exploit the ensuing chaos by launching multiple simultaneous rebellions to seize power in the province. \n\nPeasant insurgents were supposed to throw the countryside into chaos, while workers should take over the county seats, and a general strike would paralyze Guangzhou. A separate communist faction was to capture Hainan island, and an army from the Hailufeng Soviet attack Huizhou, and then advance against Guangzhou. In the end, however, the communists in Guangzhou did not follow this plan. The conflict between Zhang Fakui and Li Jishen already broke out on 27 November, with the former capturing Guangzhou from the latter in surprise attack. Thereafter, however, Zhang moved most of his troops out of the city to resist Li's counter-attacks. When the Guangdong Provincial Committee thus converged on 27 November, it concluded that the time was ideal for an insurrection in Guangzhou itself. It remains strongly disputed who exactly was responsible for the further course of events. The communists in Guangdong later claimed that their insurrection was based on the plans discussed with the party leadership, though historian Hsiao Tso-Liang argued that the former still acted completely autonomous and without the knowledge of the latter. Other historians consider this view too extreme, and have put forth evidence which suggests that the CPC's central leadership was informed about the ongoing events in Guangdong. Furthermore, it has been argued that Comintern agents who were present in the province might have decisively influenced the Guangdong Provincial Committee in its decisions about when and how to launch a rebellion.\n\nRegardless of who was responsible for the decision, the Guangdong Committee began to prepare its uprising in earnest from 27 November. A Revolutionary Military Council was appointed with Ye Ting as commander-in-chief and Zhang Tailei as chairman. Sometime in early December, Comintern agent Heinz Neumann arrived in Guangdong, joining the local communists. According to CPC leader Zhang Guotao, Neumann came to wield great influence on the committee and took a leading role in the rebellion; others believe that he was just a messenger for Stalin. The core fighting force of the rebellion consisted of an \"ad-hoc\" \"Red Guard\" formed by 2,000 armed workers, and a communist-infiltrated cadet regiment of 1,200 soldiers.\n\nOn 11 December 1927, the political leadership of the CPC ordered about 20,000 communist-leaning soldiers and armed workers to organize a \"Red Guard\" and take over Guangzhou. The uprising occurred despite the strong objections of communist military commanders such as Ye Ting, Ye Jianying and Xu Xiangqian, as the communists were badly armed - just 2,000 of the insurgents had rifles. Nevertheless, rebel forces captured most of the city within hours using the element of surprise, despite a huge numerical and technical advantage held by government troops. The communist leaders officially renamed the city's political structure the \"Soviet of Workers, Soldiers and Peasant Deputies\" or \"Guangzhou Soviet\". After this initial success for the communists, however, the 15,000 National Revolutionary Army (NRA) troops in the area moved into the city and started to push back the insurgents. After five more NRA divisions arrived in Guangzhou, the uprising was quickly crushed. The insurgents suffered heavy casualties, while the survivors had to flee the city or go into hiding. The Comintern, especially Neumann, were later blamed for insisting that the communists had to hold onto Guangzhou at all cost. Zhang Tailei, the leading Red Guard organizer, was killed in an ambush as he returned from a meeting. The takeover dissolved by the early morning of December 13, 1927.\n\nIn the resulting purges, many young communists were executed and the Guangzhou Soviet became known as the \"\"Canton Commune\"\", \"\"Guangzhou Commune\"\" or \"\"Paris Commune of the East\"\"; it lasted only a short time at the cost of more than 5,700 communists dead and an equal number missing. Around 8 p.m. on 13 December, the Soviet consulate in Guangzhou was surrounded and all its personnel were arrested. In the accident the consulate diplomats Ukolov, Ivanov and others were killed. Ye Ting, the military commander, was scapegoated, purged and blamed for the failure, despite the fact that the obvious disadvantages of the communist force was the main cause of the defeat, as Ye Ting and other military commanders had correctly pointed out. Enraged by his unjustified treatment, Ye Ting left China and went into exile in Europe, not returning until nearly a decade later.\n\nDespite being the third failed uprising of 1927, and reducing the morale of the communists, it encouraged further uprisings across China.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284532", "title": "Madridejos", "text": "Madridejos\n\nMadridejos may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2284546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284546", "title": "Minglanilla", "text": "Minglanilla\n\nMinglanilla may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2284549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284549", "title": "Colin W. G. Gibson", "text": "Colin W. G. Gibson\n\nColin William George Gibson, (February 16, 1891 – July 3, 1974) was a Canadian politician, land surveyor and lawyer.\n\nHe graduated from the Royal Military College of Canada in Kingston, Ontario in 1911 (cadet # 805). He served with the Royal Fusiliers in 1914 and graduated from the University of Toronto in 1915 where he was a Member of Alpha Delta Phi. He was lieutenant-colonel of the Royal Hamilton Light Infantry from 1929 to 1934. He practiced law from 1919. \nHe was a founding member of the Royal Military College of Canada ex-cadet club in Hamilton, Ontario in 1930. He became Commandant of Hamilton Garrison from 1935 to 1939.\n\nAs Member of Parliament for Hamilton West, he was reelected three times from 1940.03.26 to 1950. He was first elected as the Liberal Member of Parliament for Hamilton West in 1940, with 55.9% of the vote in a two candidate race. Following his election, he was appointed as Minister of National Revenue (1940.07.08 - 1945.03.07). Near the end of his first term, he was also appointed as the acting and later permanent Minister of National Defence for Air (1945.03.08 - 1946.12.11).\nHe served as Secretary of State (1948.11.15 - 1949.03.31) and (1946.12.12 - 1948.11.14). He was Minister for Mines and Resources (1949.04.01 - 1950.01.17).\n\nFollowing his re-election with 40.2% of the vote (in a three-way, four-party race), he continued as Minister of National Defence for Air (1945.01.11 - 1945.03.07). He was made the Secretary of State for Canada (1948.11.15 - 1949.03.31) and (1946.12.12 - 1948.11.14). Just before the end of his second term, he was moved to the post of Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources (Canada) (1949.04.01 - 1950.01.17).\n\nHe continued in this post after he was re-elected in 1949 (with 43.5% of the vote). He resigned from both cabinet and parliament upon his appointment as Puisne judge of the Supreme Court of Ontario.\nHe died in 1974.\n\nGibson was the son of Major General Sir John Morison Gibson, former Attorney General of Ontario. His son, Colin D. Gibson, held the riding of Hamilton—Wentworth from 1968 to 1972.\n\nThe Gibson Medal at the Royal Military College of Canada is awarded to the top graduating student in the Arts Division.\n\n"}
{"id": "2284555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284555", "title": "For Your Consideration (advertising)", "text": "For Your Consideration (advertising)\n\nFor Your Consideration is a heading frequently used in advertisements in entertainment trade publications such as \"Variety, Backstage,\" and \"The Hollywood Reporter\", as well as outdoor advertising, direct mailers, and events in Los Angeles. They are specifically directed towards members of awards voting groups in the entertainment industry, like the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences that annually presents the Academy Awards celebrating the best in motion pictures, or the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences which presents the Primetime Emmy Awards for television.\n\nEach year, the major movie studios, and to a lesser extent their affiliated television studios and the television networks, spend large sums of money on For Your Consideration ads extolling the alleged virtues of their films or programs released over the previous year. In recent years, these ads have begun to appear online at websites popular with voting members of the applicable academies.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, in addition to print advertising, networks began releasing special editions of their programming to allow voters a chance to review the content before casting their votes. Mailing DVD sets to Emmy voters became a common practice; clever packaging has been credited with garnering Emmy nominations for otherwise forgotten programs, and the ever-increasing complexity of mailers has been likened to an arms race. Some studios, however, have begun moving their content online to lessen environmental impact and avoid the high cost of postage. Online applications have their own benefits: In 2009 Showtime launched a password-protected site that allowed voters to download streaming video of \"For Your Consideration\" programming to mobile devices.\n"}
{"id": "2284563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284563", "title": "Conditioned taste aversion", "text": "Conditioned taste aversion\n\nConditioned taste aversion occurs when an animal associates the taste of a certain food with symptoms caused by a toxic, spoiled, or poisonous substance. Generally, taste aversion is developed after ingestion of food that causes nausea, sickness, or vomiting. The ability to develop a taste aversion is considered an adaptive trait or survival mechanism that trains the body to avoid poisonous substances (e.g., poisonous berries) before they can cause harm. The association reduces the probability of consuming the same substance (or something that tastes similar) in the future, thus avoiding further poisoning. It is an example of operant conditioning, not Pavlovian.\n\nStudies on conditioned taste aversion which involved irradiating rats were conducted in the 1950s by Dr. John Garcia, leading to it sometimes being called the Garcia effect.\n\nConditioned taste aversion sometimes occurs when sickness is merely coincidental to, and not caused by, the substance consumed. For example, a person who becomes very sick after consuming vodka-and-orange-juice cocktails may then become averse to the taste of orange juice, even though the sickness was caused by the over-consumption of alcohol. Under these circumstances, conditioned taste aversion is sometimes known as the \"Sauce-Bearnaise Syndrome\", a term coined by Seligman and Hager.\n\nWhile studying the effects of radiation on various behaviors in the mid to late 1950s, Dr. John Garcia noticed that rats developed an aversion to substances consumed prior to being irradiated. To examine this, Garcia put together a study in which three groups of rats were given sweetened water followed by either no radiation, mild radiation, or strong radiation. When rats were subsequently given a choice between sweetened water and regular tap water, rats who had been exposed to radiation drank much less sweetened water than those who had not. Specifically, the total consumption of sweetened water for the no-radiation, mild radiation and strong radiation rats was 80%, 40% and 10%, respectively.\n\nThis finding ran contrary to much of the learning literature of the time in that the aversion could occur after just a single trial and over a long delay. Garcia proposed that the sweetened water became regarded negatively because of the nausea inducing effects of the radiation, and so began the study of conditioned taste aversion.\n\nMany scientists were skeptical of Garcia's findings because it did not follow the basic principles of classical conditioning. However, Garcia replicated his results multiple times. He demonstrated that the particular stimulus used in classical conditioning does matter. An internal stimulus produced an internal response while an external stimulus produced an external response; but an external stimulus would not produce an internal response and vice versa.\n\nTaste aversion does not require cognitive awareness to develop—that is, the subject does not have to consciously recognize a connection between the perceived cause (the taste) and effect (the negative feeling). In fact, the subject may \"hope\" to enjoy the substance, but the body handles it reflexively. Conditioned taste aversion illustrates the argument that in classical conditioning, a response is elicited.\n\nAlso, taste aversion generally only requires one trial. The experiments of Ivan Pavlov required several pairings of the neutral stimulus (e.g., a ringing bell) with the unconditioned stimulus (i.e., meat powder) before the neutral stimulus elicited a response. With taste aversion, after one association between sickness and a certain food, the food may thereafter elicit the response. In addition, lab experiments generally require very brief (less than a second) intervals between a neutral stimulus and an unconditioned stimulus. With taste aversion, however, the hotdog a person eats at lunch may be associated with the vomiting that person has in the evening.\n\nIf the flavor has been encountered before the subject becomes ill, the effect will not be as strong or will not be present. This quality is called latent inhibition. Conditioned taste aversion is often used in laboratories to study gustation and learning in rats.\n\nAversions can also be developed to odors as well as to tastes.\n\nCommon vampire bats (\"Desmodus rotundus\") do not learn taste aversions despite being closely related to other species of bats that do. The diet of common vampire bats only consists of vertebrate blood and therefore it is hypothesized that the development of a taste aversion to their only food source would not be advantageous for these animals.\n\nTaste aversion is fairly common in humans. When humans eat bad food (e.g., spoiled meat) and get sick, they may find that food aversive until extinction occurs, if ever. Also, as in nature, a food does not have to \"cause\" the sickness for it to become aversive. A human who eats sushi for the first time and who happens to come down with an unrelated stomach virus may still develop a taste aversion to sushi. Even something as obvious as riding a roller coaster (causing nausea) after eating the sushi will influence the development of taste aversion to sushi. Humans might also develop aversions to certain types of alcoholic beverages because of vomiting during intoxication.\n\nTaste aversion is a common problem with chemotherapy patients, who become nauseated because of the drug therapy but associate the nausea with consumption of food.\n\nTaste aversion has been demonstrated in a wide variety of both captive and free-ranging predators. In these studies, animals that consume a bait laced with an undetectable dose of an aversion agent avoid both baits and live prey with the same taste and scent as the baits. When predators detect the aversion agent in the baits, they quickly form aversions to the baits, but discriminate between these and different-tasting live prey.\n\nStimulus generalization is another learning phenomenon that can be illustrated by conditioned taste aversion. This phenomenon demonstrates that we tend to develop aversions even to types of food that resemble the foods which cause us illness. For example, if one eats an orange and gets sick, one might also avoid eating tangerines and clementines because they look similar to oranges, and might lead one to think that they are also dangerous.\n\nStimulus generalization operates in most facets of animal and human life far beyond food tastes and aversion. Trauma and negative reinforcement of all kinds create aversion of other negative reaction to generalizations from the adverse event or events. And like taste aversion, the generalization may or not be conscious. Stimulus generalization is a factor in most \"superstitious behavior\", racism and prejudice of all kinds.\n\nAlthough the terms \"taste avoidance\" and \"taste aversion\" are often used interchangeably, studies with rats indicate they are not necessarily synonymous. \"Aversion\" is defined as \"a strong dislike or disinclination\" and \"avoidance\" is defined as \"stopping oneself from doing\". The difference is that in avoidance, the organism is controlling its behavioural responses. Taste avoidance and taste aversion can at times go hand in hand, but they cannot be looked at or be defined the same way.\n\nStudies on rats to determine how they react to different tasting liquids and injections indicate this difference. Scientists measured the facial and somatic reactions of rats after exposure to a flavored solution (sucrose or salt) which do not induce abnormal feelings. However, immediately after the rat ingests the solution, the rat is injected with a drug that induces nausea. The rat subsequently expresses a disgust reaction towards the solution, seen by mouth gaping. This is a Pavlovian conditioned response as the rat is associating the disgust with the solution that it drank immediately before the injection. The rat experiences taste \"aversion\". This is similar to when a human, for example, eats a steak that is perfectly safe and edible and coincidentally contracts a stomach bug and starts vomiting within a few hours of eating the steak. Although the human may know that the vomiting was due to a virus and not from eating the steak, the conditioned response in the brain associates the steak with vomiting due to the timing and the human may avoid steak because he has developed a learned taste aversion to the steak.\n\nWhen examining taste avoidance, however, the rat may avoid a food yet still enjoy it and choose it over others. In further tests, the rats were tested with another sucrose solution but this time it was paired with a drug that gave positive, euphoric effects, such as amphetamine, cocaine, and morphine. The rats showed positive reactions to the drugs. However, rats react to any change in physiological state as a sign of danger and avoided approaching these solutions. When one of these euphoric solutions was placed next to another solution that had a learned taste aversion, the rat would choose the substance that it had a taste avoidance towards. Scientists theorize that in terms of evolution, because rats are unable to vomit and immediately purge toxins, rats have developed a strong \"first line of defense\", which is their sense of taste and smell. This further shows the importance of taste and the correlation between taste and any change in physiological state, whether it be good or bad. Because rats rely upon taste and pairing it with a reaction rather than relying on later responses that involve the gastrointestinal tract, taste avoidance is just as prevalent as taste aversion, though the two don't necessarily go hand in hand.\n\n"}
{"id": "2284578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284578", "title": "The Call (American TV program)", "text": "The Call (American TV program)\n\nThe Call is an American television business news program which on CNBC between 11AM to 12 noon ET weekdays from August 2007 to October 2011. Previous programs shown in the same time slot were \"The Money Wheel\" with Ted David and Martha MacCallum and \"Market Watch\" and \"Morning Call\". \"The Call\" offered a clear focus on real-time market coverage at the heart of the trading day.\n\nUntil July 19, 2007, CNBC aired \"Morning Call\" from 10AM to 12 noon ET weekdays. The next day, CNBC replaced the first hour of the two-hour program with an expanded \"Squawk on the Street\", due in part to Liz Claman's departure from the network (she joined the Fox Business Network three months later). The program was completely revamped on July 23, 2007, and renamed \"The Call\" on August 7, 2007, with Dylan Ratigan and Trish Regan serving as interim anchors. Ratigan (live from the New York Stock Exchange), Regan and Melissa Francis were appointed permanent co-anchors as of October 8, 2007. In addition to the aforementioned July 2007 revamp, the anchors were joined on set by a guest contributor, very similar to \"Squawk Box\".\n\nDylan Ratigan left \"The Call\" in late 2008 as he was replaced with Larry Kudlow. Melissa Francis and Trish Regan both remained on the program, with Francis anchoring alongside Kudlow at the network's Englewood Cliffs studio and Regan anchoring at the NYSE. Ratigan ultimately left CNBC altogether in March 2009. Trish Regan departed from CNBC 2 years later (March 2011). Amanda Drury (formerly of CNBC Asia) replaced Regan as co-host until she left for \"Street Signs\" in mid-2011.\n\nRegular reporters included Bob Pisani (NYSE), Scott Wapner (NASDAQ), Sharon Epperson (NYMEX), Rick Santelli (Chicago), Steve Liesman, David Faber and Brian Shactman.\n\n\n\"\"America is open for business coast-to-coast.\"\" This was the opening phrase used at the start of the show just before the opening title sequence.\n\nOn June 14, 2010, CNBC Asia debuted their own version of \"The Call\". That program was anchored by Bernard Lo in Hong Kong, and ended on March 28, 2014.\n\nThe United States version of \"The Call\" was cancelled October 14, 2011, and was replaced 3 days later by the newly expanded third hour of \"Squawk on the Street\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2284591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284591", "title": "Georg Lurich", "text": "Georg Lurich\n\nGeorg Lurich ( – 20 January 1920) was an Estonian Greco-Roman wrestler and strongman of the early 20th century. Lurich was also the trainer of Estonian wrestlers and weightlifters George Hackenschmidt and Aleksander Aberg.\n\nBorn Georg Luri on 22 April 1876 in the village of Väike-Maarja in Viru County, Russian Empire (now Lääne-Viru County, Estonia), he was a son of a shopkeeper named Jüri Luri. Although ethnically Estonian, his family later altered their surname to Lurich after changing religious congregations from a Lutheran Estonian congregation to a predominantly ethnic Baltic German congregation. Lurich's family believed members of the German congregation had better possibilities to educate their children in town schools. Although they changed their surname, Georg suffered physical and mental persecution from mostly Baltic German fellow schoolmates. This situation was main reason why he start to training his body. He get information about how to train from German books and media. Lurich began participating in sporting activities at an early age. \n\nAfter graduating from Peter's Modern School in Tallinn (today, Tallinn Secondary School of Science) in 1895, he travelled to St. Petersburg, Russia where he practised weightlifting and wrestling under the supervision of the athletics coach Dr. Władysław Krajewski. Lurich performed in St. Petersburg's summer gardens, competed with local wrestlers and made various lifting demonstrations together with fellow strongman Gustav Boesberg. His popularity convinced him to follow a career in as a professional athlete.\n\nLurich became the first Estonian to set world weightlifting records. The Estonian public eagerly attended his matches and Lurich's popularity in his homeland soared. From 1897 to 1898 Lurich toured Estonia and his successes helped popularize athletics in Estonia and dozens of athletic clubs were established. In 1896, Lurich befriended an 18-year-old fellow countryman by the name of Georg Hackenschmidt and began to train the young man. Hackenschmidt would later go on to create a name for himself in weightlifting and wrestling.\nPrior to World War I, Lurich, along with friend and fellow Estonian wrestler Aleksander Aberg travelled to the United States to perform for American audiences. Lurich performed in free-style wrestling matches in the United States between 1913 and 1917. Lurich wrestled American world wrestling champion and title holder Frank Gotch in Kansas City in 1913, but lost what would be Gotch's final match.\n\nAfter returning home via Japan, China and Russia in 1917 they arrived in Estonia in the autumn. They participated in a wrestling tournament in the capital city of Tallinn that remained unfinished due to the approach of German troops. The two athletes went to Saint Petersburg and on to southern Russia. The Russian Civil War meant an end to work in Saint Petersburg and Moscow. Conditions seemed better in the southern region, which was controlled by the White Army. However, the war spread and the men had to flee further inside Russia. They became stranded in a far corner of southern Russia in a village named Armavir. Their initial aim was to leave Russia across the Black Sea by boat.\n\nThings took a dramatic turn in Armavir at the beginning of 1920. The fighting reached them, the town changed hands several times, many civilians perished, and there were many funerals. A warm winter brought about an epidemic of typhoid fever. Due to the war, medical aid was difficult to obtain. Lurich fell ill first and died on 20 January 1920. Aberg had also become infected with typhus, but managed to defeat the illness. However, he rushed his recovery, caught pneumonia, and died on 15 February 1920. The wrestlers were buried in one grave in the Armavir German cemetery.\n\nFollowing Georg Lurich's death on 20 January 1920 at the age of 43, many Estonians began embellishing his accomplishments with such voracity that Lurich's legend began taking on an almost mythological light. Folk tales abounded in rural Estonia and continue to years after Lurich's death. The following excerpt is an example of a Georg Lurich folk tale that has become popular amongst residents of Väike-Maarja, Estonia and was transcribed by Estonian author Kalle Voolaid:\n\n\"One hot and sunny summer day Lurich had been sitting on a hill slope in Väike-Maarja and when the heat was becoming too much for him, he ran down into the valley to freshen himself up with cool spring water. While running he hit his foot against a rock and fell on all fours on the stone. Then he stood up, went to the spring, put his feet and hands in the spring and washed with spring water. That is where he got the great strength, he had taken that rock against which he had hit his foot, and played with it as if it were a potato. That rock is said to be still there on the edge of Väike-Maarja memorial hill, covered with moss.\"\n\nIn 1912, Estonian sculptor Amandus Adamson cast a bronze statue of Lurich titled \"Champion\" which won the 1912 Paris Olympic artist contest. Lurich was also the inspirational model for a plaster of paris sculpture by Adamson titled \"Kalevipoeg at the Gates of Hell\" (Estonian: \"Kalevipoeg põrgu väravas\") in 1922.\n\nLurich remains one of the most beloved figures in Estonia to this day. Large tour groups now visit Lurich's memorial stone in Väike-Maarja on Aia Street.\n\nThe international Georg Lurich Memorial in Greco-Roman wrestling is held annually in Estonia from 1956.\n\nOn 22nd April 2018 Lurich's statue was opened in Väike-Maarja.\n\n\nIn English: \nIn Estonian:\n\n"}
{"id": "2284609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284609", "title": "Jusa Mountains", "text": "Jusa Mountains\n\nThe Jusa Mountains are a minor range in southeastern South Korea. They run parallel to and immediately west of the Taebaek Mountains. Notable peaks include Danseok Mountain, which is part of Gyeongju National Park. The Jusa Mountains separate the Hyeongsan River basin on the east from the Geumho River basin on the west.\n\n"}
{"id": "2284615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284615", "title": "Lanfang Republic", "text": "Lanfang Republic\n\nThe Lanfang Republic (, Pha̍k-fa-sṳ: \"Làn-fông Khiung-fò-koet\") was a Chinese state and kongsi federation in Western Borneo. It was established by a Hakka Chinese named in 1777, until it was ended by Dutch occupation in 1884. It was one of many tributary states of Qing China. The Lanfang Republic was one of the earliest modern republics in the world.\n\nThe sultans of Western Borneo imported Chinese laborers in the 18th century to work in gold or tin mines. A number of mining companies (\"kongsi\") enjoyed some political autonomy, but Lanfang is the best known thanks to a history written by Yap Siong-yoen, the son-in-law of the last kapitan of the Lanfang \"kongsi\", which was translated into Dutch in 1885. None of the other Chinese mining settlements in western Kalimantan left written accounts.\n\nThe founding father of the Lanfang Republic was Luo Fangbo, who hailed from Meizhou in Guangdong Province. Chinese settlers have long lived in Borneo island, with most engaging in trading and mining. They formed their own companies, among which was the Southern Company headed by Luo.\n\nAs Dutch imperialism encroached upon modern-day Indonesia, Luo established the Lanfang Republic in 1777 (with its capital in East Wanjin) to protect the Chinese settlers from Dutch oppression. The settlers subsequently elected Luo as their inaugural president. Luo implemented many democratic principles, including the idea that all matters of state must involve the consultation of the republic's citizenry. He also created a comprehensive set of executive, legislative, and judicial agencies. The Republic did not have a standing military, but had a defense ministry that administered a national militia based on conscription. During peacetime, the populace mostly engaged in farming, production, trading, and mining. Lanfang's administrative divisions included three tiers (province, prefecture, and county) with the people electing leaders for all levels. Lanfang was allied with Sultan Abdurrahman of the Pontianak Sultanate.\n\nAlthough Luo discarded the ancient institutions of monarchism and dynastic succession, he continued to adhere to many Chinese traditions. For example, he established the founding year of the republic as the first year of the calendar. Moreover, he submitted a report to the Chinese emperor notifying him about the Republic's founding and paid tribute to the Chinese Qing Empire.\n\nLuo served as head of state until his death in 1795. Afterwards, Lanfang citizens elected Jiang Wubo () as their next president. Lanfang citizens elected a total of twelve leaders, who helped improve agricultural techniques, expand mine production, develop cultural education, and organize military training. These measures allowed Lanfang to increase its wealth and power, which encouraged the non-Chinese indigenous population to pledge their allegiances to Lanfang.\n\nIn the mid-to-late 19th century, the Chinese Qing Empire weakened substantially and became increasingly unable to support the Lanfang Republic as its vassal state. Thus, Lanfang Republic's vigorous development suffered from the eventual expansion of the Dutch. The Republic's citizenry waged a tenacious resistance, but ultimately failed due to poor weaponry. Lin Ah Sin was the last leader of Lanfang. Many of Lanfang's citizens and their descendants made their way to Sumatra or Singapore. The three campaigns waged by the Dutch East Indies Army against the Chinese \"kongsi\", called the Kongsi Wars, were:\nThis last one resulted in the subjugation of the Chinese and the loss of autonomy.\n\nWary of Qing intervention, the Dutch did not openly annex the Lanfang Republic, and created another puppet regime. It was not until 1912, when the Qing Dynasty collapsed, that the Dutch proclaimed their occupation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284629", "title": "Road to Sunday", "text": "Road to Sunday\n\nRoad to Sunday was an American football video game developed by SCE San Diego Studio and published by Sony Computer Entertainment for the PlayStation 2 and the PlayStation Portable. As of July 20, 2005, \"Road to Sunday\" has been cancelled.\n\nIt is the successor to \"NFL GameDay\" which could no longer use NFL Teams or Players because EA Sports acquiring the exclusive rights to the NFL for the subsequent five years for \"Madden NFL\".\n\n\"Road to Sunday\" revolves around Blake Doogan, who inherits a pro football team after his father is killed in a suspicious explosion while in Jamaica. Later, Blake learns that his father borrowed large sums of money from a Jamaican kingpin to purchase the professional football team the Los Angeles Show, and Doogan's father's debt is now his debt.\n\nThe gameplay follows the Blake, his friend/sidekick Harry and seven football players as they put it all on the line in order to get enough money to pay off the kingpin and win the championship. The on-the-field football experience is best characterized as mission-based football, done through the introduction of a new gameplay experience, Position Specific Gameplay (PSG). Players not only compete on the gridiron, but also gain exposure to an underworld of questionable characters, gambling, and an underground fighting league ran by the corrupt Jamaican kingpin. These off-field exploitations will drive the storyline as well as increase players’ abilities to perform in future missions and impact the outcome of future football games.\n"}
{"id": "2284648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284648", "title": "University of Nordland", "text": "University of Nordland\n\nThe University of Nordland, (Abbreviation: UIN; ) previously Bodø University College, was a public university located in Bodø, Norway. In January 2016, the university was merged with Nesna University College and Nord-Trøndelag University College, becoming Nord University.\n\nProgrammes taught in English:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284651", "title": "Altstadt (Frankfurt am Main)", "text": "Altstadt (Frankfurt am Main)\n\nThe Altstadt (\"old town\") is a city district of Frankfurt am Main, Germany. It is part of the \"Ortsbezirk Innenstadt I\".\n\nThe Altstadt is located on the northern Main river bank. It is completely surrounded by the Innenstadt district, Frankfurt's present-day city centre. On the opposite side of the Main is the district of Sachsenhausen.\n\nAs the historical center of Frankfurt, the Altstadt has existed from Frankfurt's beginnings, dating back to 794 (first mentioning of Frankfurt). It used to be part of the original Innenstadt area, which lay inside of the city walls, the \"Staufenmauer\". Only very small sections of the Altstadt were rebuilt after World War II and so only a few old buildings are actually preserved. The Altstadt contains many of Frankfurt's most important sights, including the Römerberg plaza with the famed Römer city hall and many other middle-age style buildings which are mostly actually reconstructions. Nearby is the St. Bartholomäus Cathedral and the Paulskirche, the short-lived seat of the German National Assembly in 1848–49.\n\nThe Dom-Römer Project is a current reconstruction project for the old town quarter between the Römer square and the Frankfurt Cathedral.\n\nCovering less than half a square kilometre the Altstadt is the smallest district of Frankfurt. The area is completely built-up with the only open spaces being accounted for by the Main and the river bank, the streets, squares and backyards. The construction descends predominantly from the reconstruction phase of the post-war era, aside from which there are numerous historical buildings partly reconstructed after their destruction in the Second World War.\n\nApproximately 3,400 people reside in the Altstadt of which an estimated 32% are of foreign origin. This is above the ratio of the entire town, but far under that of the other town quarters. The adjacent Neustadt, for example, is home to 44% non-German inhabitants.\n\nMuseums and theatres dominate the western part of Altstadt and service jobs are a major part of the economy, especially along Weißfrauenstraße and Berliner Straße. The centre of Altstadt is a hot spot for the city's tourism industry, with tours around the most meaningful sights such as Paulskirche, Römer, and the Frankfurt Cathedral, as well as being the seat of the city's administrative branch. In the north of the district the retail industry is well represented, particularly in Neue Kräme and Töngesgasse. Residential flats are found in the east in an area which also contains most of Frankfurt's art trade (Braubachstraße and Fahrgasse).\n\nBy far the largest employer in the old part of the city is the city's administration. Even today the Altstadt is the political centre of the city. The city council, magistrates and a considerable part of the city departments are located in Römer square, either in the town hall itself or in the surrounding properties.\n\nIn the past years, two other important facilities abandoned the Altstadt and the city as a whole: the German Federal Court of Auditors of Berliner Straße which was relocated to Bonn, and the headquarters of Degussa from Weißfrauenstraße which moved to Düsseldorf. While the monument-listed building of the German Federal Court of Auditors is currently being redeveloped, the former Degussa building had been torn down, and the area has been redeveloped into flats and offices.\n\nOther important factors of the economy are the retail and tourist industries. Although there were still numerous small industrial businesses in the narrow lanes up until the Second World War, the retail sector now outweighs all other types of business. Particularly in Neue Kräme and Töngesgasse many niche eateries can be found. In Berliner Straße there a numerous shops specialised on Asian tourists who come to the city for extensive shopping trips. The Fahrgasse and the quarter around the Weckmarkt at the cathedral form the traditional centre for antique dealers in Frankfurt.\n\nThe Altstadt is remarkably open because of its attachment to the suburban traffic network. The underground station \"Dom/Römer\", opened in 1974, connected the historical core of the city to the Underground lines 4 and 5. The building of the track and the station in the years 1968–74 represented a special technical challenge. The underground junction of Willy-Brandt-Platz connects parts of the Altstadt, the rapid-transit system of Hauptwache and Konstablerwache to the north.\n\nTram lines 11 and 12 operate along the central thoroughfare of Bethmannstrasse-Braubachstrasse-Battonnstrasse. At the start of the 20th century, two tram lines were laid through Altstadt, the first—the so-called Dienstmädchenlinie (Handmaid's line)—from the Zeil past the Trierischen Hof (hotel) in the direction of the cathedral, the other along the newly laid Brauchbachstrasse in an east to west direction. While the Dienstmädchen line was never successful and had been shut down after the First World War, the east-west line remained and is now known as the Altstadtstrecke. In 1986 its redundant status was brought to an end due to the intervention of the district president in Darmstadt. In the meantime the Altstadtstrecke gained a firm place in local public passenger transport, especially with the Ebbelwei-express, which serves an exclusive tourist route.\n\nFor private traffic, after the Second World War Berliner Strasse and Kurt-Schumacher-Strasse as well as the Mainkai became the most important axles. Numerous multi-storey car parks can be found in the northern part of Altstadt, and an underground car park lies between the cathedral and the town hall.\n\nThree bridges lead out of the Altstadt over the Main; Alte Brücke, Eiserner Steg and Untermainbrücke.\n\nThe Mainkai (Main quay), as the name suggests, stands on the oldest harbour in the city. Ships are still moored there today; however, these only serve tourists along the Main and the Rhine. Ships transporting goods are instead found, as in the city's early days, in the main harbours of Frankfurt.\n\nThe Altstadt is on the right bank of the Main on the outer edge of a soft bend in the river. Here was the ford which gave the city its name. In the place of today's cathedral was a raised, floodproof plateau, the so-called Dominsel (cathedral island). At the time it was protected in the north by a branch of the main, the Brauchbach. This island represents the historic origin of the city and was presumably settled in the Neolithic era. Archaeological excavations in the 1950s and 1990s brought to light the remainders of a Roman military camp, an Alamanni property yard and a Merovingian king's court. Legends of the city's founding name Karl the Great as the city's founder, which corresponds to the oldest known documents (Frankfurt council, 794), but contradicts the archaeological findings.\n\nThe area of the city initially grew out west around the start of the 2nd millennium (around the area west of today's Römerberg). One of the oldest city walls, the Staufenmauer, was erected connecting the area of these two expansions and equated to today's Altstadt. The adjacent district of the Innenstadt equated to the historic Neustadt, an expansion in 1333. On the border between the two was where the Jewish ghetto of the Judengasse was established.\n\nOver the course of the centuries, the population of the city always continued to increase, whereby the population density of the Altstadt continuously increased. The buildings finally had up to five full storeys and (due to the usual, very steep roofs) several attics. Each floor protruded outwards in excess of the one beneath it so the inhabitants of the highest floors could reach out and touch the hand of the person living on the other side of the alley.\n\nThe old town began to display a clear structure with three north-south axis identifiable: in the west the Kornmarkt ran between Bockenheimer Gate (to the church later erected and named Katharinenpforte) and Leonhardstor (tower) next to Leonhardskirche (church) on the Main. In the middle of the district Neue Kräme connected the two largest squares of the Altstadt, Liebfrauenberg to Römerberg and further towards the south lying Fahrtor on the bank of the Main and the harbour there. The Fahrgasse ran east of the cathedral from Bornheimer Gate near today's Konstablerwache to the Main bridge. It was one of the most busy streets for Frankfurt traffic in the 20th century.\n\nThe six east-west axis were less clear amongst the general cityscape. Situated next to the Main was the important thoroughfare of Weckmarkt-Saalgasse-Alte Mainzer Gasse and north of that the connecting streets of Bendergasse-Limpurgergasse-Münzgasse as well as Kannengiessergasse-Markt-Wedelgasse-Barfüssergasse. Aside from these important east-west roads was Schnurgasse which ran approximately along today's Berliner Straße, as well as the connecting fairway of Töngesgasse-Bleidenstrasse-Grosser Hirschgraben. The wood ditch marked the northern edge of the Altstadt.\nThe majority of Frankfurt's inhabitants lived in the densely populated Altstadt, while the Neustadt remained characteristically suburban until far into the 18th century with loose land development and agriculture featuring prominently in contrast with Altstadt. The city in general was divided into fourteen parts after the Fettmilch Rising of 1614. Seven of these formed the relatively small Altstadt, five belonged to the Neustadt (which made it three times bigger than the Altstadt) and two for Sachsenhausen. Each area placed a militarily organised citizen's resistance under the command of a civilian captain, which the only democratically elected department in the otherwise corporate composed imperial city.\n\nSubstantial changes to the cityscape only occurred after the Großer Christenbrand (a large fire) of 1719. About 430 houses were burnt down in the north east Altstadt. In order to prevent such disasters in the future the council intensified construction specifications in 1720. Between 1740 and 1800 around 3,000 houses were either adapted or built anew. The number and width of overhangs were drastically limited. As well as that houses had to be built in future with the eaves side facing the road. Only small attics were certified as opposed to gabled dormers.\n\nIn 1785 Johann Georg Christian Hess began his office as the city's architect-general. He wrote a construction statute (1809) (the principles of which continued with great strength until 1880) for the city of Frankfurt on behalf of the Grand Duke Carl Theodor of Dalberg. In this statute classicism was announced as an obligatory architectural style. Hess initiated the radical architecture of classicism in the spirit of a general clean-out. He disliked the conservation efforts of numerous buildings from the Middle Ages because they did not conform to his image of hygiene and aesthetics. In the Neustadt and outside the city walls (reinforced between 1804 and 1808) new districts developed where he was easily able to accomplish his architectural goals. However, in the Altstadt he encountered tough resistance from the conservative citizenry. Only newly developing public buildings, for example, Paulskirche (1833) or the Alte Börse (1843) at Paulsplatz conformed with his classic idealism.\n"}
{"id": "2284654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284654", "title": "Nonelementary problem", "text": "Nonelementary problem\n\nIn computational complexity theory, a nonelementary problem is a problem that is not a member of the class ELEMENTARY. As a class it is sometimes denotes as NONELEMENTARY.\n\nExamples of nonelementary problems that are nevertheless decidable include:\n"}
{"id": "2284657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284657", "title": "History of Gyeongju", "text": "History of Gyeongju\n\nThis article is about the history of Gyeongju. Gyeongju is a coastal city in the far southeastern corner of North Gyeongsang province in South Korea. It is the second largest city by area in the province after Andong, covering 1,324 km2 (511 sq mi) with a population of 269,343 people according to the 2008 census. The early history of Gyeongju is closely tied to that of the Silla kingdom, of which it was the capital for nearly one thousand years.\n\nGyeongju first enters non-Korean records during the Samhan period in the early Common Era. It is recorded in Chinese records as Saro-guk, one of twelve petty states which comprised the Jinhan confederacy. Saro-guk would later become the Silla kingdom. Korean records, probably based on the dynastic chronicles of Silla, record that Saro-guk was established in 57 BCE, when six small villages in the Gyeongju area united under Bak Hyeokgose, the kingdom's first ruler. During the Silla period, the city was called \"Seorabeol\" (서라벌; 西羅伐) that is assumed to mean Capital, \"Gyerim which literally means Rooster's forest,\" or \"Geumseong\" (금성; 金成) that refers to \"City of Gold\". \n\nAfter the unification of the peninsula up to Taedong River in 668 AD, Gyeongju became the center of Korean political and cultural life. The city was home to the Silla court, and the great majority of the kingdom's elite. Its prosperity became legendary, and was reported as far away as Persia according to the 9th century book, \"The Book of Roads and Kingdoms\". Records of \"Samguk Yusa\" give the city's population in its peak period as 178,936 households, suggesting that the total population was almost one million. Many of Gyeongju's most famous sites date from this period, known as Unified Silla.\n\nHowever, the city's prosperity proved short-lived. In the late 9th century the Silla kingdom declined and fell apart, giving way to the Later Three Kingdoms of Korea. In 927 Gyeongju was pillaged by Hubaekje, one of these later kingdoms. Shortly thereafter, King Gyeongsun surrendered his title and country to Taejo in 935, who then established the Goryeo dynasty. Gyeongju was no longer the capital of a united Korea, while Gaegyeong (modern-day Kaesong) took that title.\n\nUnder the Goryeo dynasty (935–1392), Gyeongju was no longer of national importance. However, it remained a regional center. The city was given its modern name \"Gyeongju\" by King Taejo in 940, and was made the seat of Yeongnam Province. It had jurisdiction over a wide area, including much of east-central Yeongnam.\n\nGyeongju was designated the \"Eastern Capital\" in 987, but that title was removed in 1012. For much of the Goryeo period, it was also the seat of the \"Andong Daedohobu\", the Great Protectorate of the East, which oversaw military affairs for much of eastern and central Korea. However, it was stripped of this distinction as well in the 13th century, after bloody rebellions connected with the Silla restoration movement broke out in the area. At the same time, its boundaries were considerably reduced.\n\nDuring the Joseon Dynasty (1392–1910), the city declined yet further. It ceased to occupy a central position as the Great Yeongnam Road became the Gyeongsang province's chief artery. This road connected Seoul to the southeastern port of Dongnae (in modern-day Busan) without passing near Gyeongju. In 1601, the provincial capital passed to Daegu, which was located on the main road. \n\nOver these centuries, the city's relics suffered numerous assaults. In the 13th century, Mongol forces destroyed a nine-story wooden pagoda at Hwangnyongsa. During the Imjin War (1592–1598), the Gyeongju area became a heated battlefield and Japanese forces burned the wooden structures at Bulguksa. Not all damage was due to invasions, however. In the early Joseon period, a great deal of damage was done to Buddhist sculptures on Namsan by Neo-Confucian radicals, who hacked arms and heads off statuary.\n\nThe city's boundaries and designation changed several times in the 20th century. From 1895 to 1955, the area was known as Gyeongju-gun (\"Gyeongju County\"). In the first decades of the century, the city center was known as Gyeongju-myeon, signifying a relatively rural rea. In 1931, the downtown area was designated Gyeongju-eup, in recognition of its increasingly urban nature. In 1955, Gyeongju-eup became Gyeongju-si (\"Gyeongju City\"), the same name as today but with a much smaller area. The remainder of Gyeongju-gun became \"Wolseong County.\" The county and city were reunited in 1995, creating Gyeongju City as we know it today. \n\nFrom the 1900s (decade) to the early 1970s, Gyeongju had remained relatively small and all glories of the past were gone. In the early 20th century many archaeological excavations took place, mostly on the many tombs which survived the centuries fairly well. A museum, the forerunner of the present-day Gyeongju National Museum, was set up in 1915 to exhibit the finds. The excavations of this period, largely carried out by Japanese archaeologists, are often accused of recklessness and plunder, although others take a more positive view. Few excavation reports were ever published. \n\nGyeongju emerged as a railroad junction in the later years of the Japanese Occupation. The Donghae Nambu Line was completed in 1935, cutting directly through the historical areas of central Gyeongju. The Jungang Line was completed in 1942, and Gyeongju became directly connected to Gyeongseong (present-day Seoul). This helped to lay the foundations for future industrial development. Thanks to these improved connections, this period also saw the town beginning to emerge as a center of tourism.\n\nFollowing liberation in 1945, Korea was plunged into turmoil. Gyeongju was no exception. Returnees from abroad were numerous; a village for them was constructed in present-day Dongcheon-dong. In a period marked by widespread conflict and unrest, the Gyeongju area became particularly notorious for the level of guerrilla activity in the mountains. \n\nThe Korean War broke out in 1950. Most of Gyeongju was spared from the fighting, and remained under South Korean control throughout the conflict. However, for a brief time in late 1950 portions of the city stood on the front lines, as North Korean forces pushed the Pusan Perimeter southward from Pohang. \n\nIn the 1970s, Korea saw substantial industrial development, much of it centered in the Yeongnam region of which Gyeongju is a part. In 1971, the Gyeongbu Expressway was completed connecting Seoul and Busan, and passing through Gyeongju on the way. The POSCO steel mill in neighboring Pohang commenced operations in 1973, and the chemical manufacturing complex in Ulsan emerged in the same year. These developments helped to support the emergence of the manufacturing sector in Gyeongju.\n\nFor almost all of the 20th century, the people of the city had no direct say in their government. The mayors of Gyeongju, like those of all other cities, were directly appointed by the central government, whether the government was that of the Joseon Dynasty, Japanese occupation, or modern South Korea. This changed in 1995, with the establishment of local autonomy throughout the country. The city's first elected mayor was the unaffiliated Lee Won-shik, who served from 1995 to 1998.\n\nIn September 2015 the city was hit by an earthquake with a magnitude of 5.8, but no major damage or injuries were reported.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284659", "title": "Rudyard Lake", "text": "Rudyard Lake\n\nRudyard Lake is a reservoir in Rudyard, Staffordshire, located north-west of the town of Leek, Staffordshire. It was constructed in the late 18th century to feed the Caldon Canal. During the 19th century, it was a popular destination for daytrippers taking advantage of easy access using the newly constructed North Staffordshire Railway. The lake is still used for many water activities such as boating, canoeing, fishing and also for walks and recreational steam train trips.\n\nLegend has it that the village of Rudyard was named after Ralph Rudyard, a local man reputed to have killed Richard III at the Battle of Bosworth Field, although as the place-name, meaning 'a yard or enclosure where rue is grown' in Old English, was first recorded in 1022 and subsequently mentioned in the Domesday Book in 1086 it is more likely that Ralph, if he ever existed, was named after the village.\n\nRudyard Lake was constructed by the engineer John Rennie, for the Trent and Mersey Canal company in 1797–98 to feed the Caldon Canal. The reservoir had been proposed in 1796, and would have been connected to the upper level of the Caldon Canal by a feeder, but in order to win the consent of landowners, the section below Leek was made navigable. The bill to promote the construction failed in Parliament, and there was a suggestion for a bigger scheme, involving a canal from Marple on the Peak Forest Canal to the Caldon Canal, passing through Macclesfield and Rudyard. Benjamin Outram, the engineer for the Peak Forest Canal, would have overseen the project, and again, it would have involved a reservoir at Rudyard. However, the Trent and Mersey re-submitted their bill in early 1797, and it became an Act of Parliament in March.\n\nAs built, the lake is around long and wide. It was formed by creating a earth dam at the southern end of the steep wooded valley, which is faced with stone on the upstream side, to prevent erosion. A spillway, some wide, was built at the eastern side of the dam, and feeds the feeder than carries water to the Leek Branch. The main source of water supply to the lake is a feeder that runs from the headwaters of the River Dane. This was refurbished in the mid-1990s by the Waterway Recovery Group. The lake has gradually silted up, but there are problems associated with dredging it, due to a lack of access for vehicles, and English Nature's concern over the disturbance of some rare fauna.\n\nOn 26 June 1846 the North Staffordshire Railway successfully took over the canal company and lake as part of one of its acts of parliament that resulted in the formation of the North Staffordshire Railway. Having acquired the lake and the land around it the railway used the land down one side as the route for its Churnet Valley Line between Macclesfield and Uttoxeter. Two stations were built, one at Rudyard village (later renamed Rudyard Lake) and one at the north end of the lake called Rudyard Lake (later renamed Cliffe Park)\n\nBecause of the accessibility brought by the railway stations, daytrippers and tourists began visiting the lake. Visitors included John Lockwood Kipling and Alice Macdonald, the parents of Rudyard Kipling, who met there on a trip from Burslem. They liked the place so much they named their son after it. By the end of the 19th century, crowds of up to 20,000 people could visit the lake on some days. Its popularity continued into the early 20th century, and over 20,000 visitors were carried to the site on 88 trains on a particular day in 1913. Matthew Webb, the first man to swim the English Channel, entertained crowds by demonstrating his swimming in the lake, and Carlos Trower (\"the African Blondin\") performed a tightrope walk across the lake.\n\nThe lake is home to Rudyard Lake Sailing Club and North Staffordshire Rowing Club. Fishing, walking, canoeing and boat trips are popular attractions. The lake has a visitor centre, toilets and an activity centre which can be hired for functions or conferences. An annual lake festival is held on a Sunday in August and a firework display takes place in November.\n\nThe Rudyard Lake Steam Railway runs narrow gauge steam trains that operate up the east side of the lake on many days throughout the year. It is possible to walk round the lake or walk part way and start/finish the journey by steam train.\n\nThe BBC's motoring show \"Top Gear\" held a challenge at the lake in 2006 to see which presenter had designed the best amphibious car. Richard Hammond's attempt sank while Jeremy Clarkson's attempt capsized with Richard on board at the end of the challenge. However, James May's Triumph Herald, complete with sail and mast, performed well, despite the almost total absence of wind, and he was able to drive it out of the water, thus winning the challenge.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284671", "title": "Shemekia Copeland", "text": "Shemekia Copeland\n\nCharon Shemekia Copeland (born April 10, 1979) is an American electric blues vocalist. To date, she has released nine albums and been presented with seven Blues Music Awards.\n\nCopeland was born in Harlem, New York City, United States. She is the daughter of Texas blues guitarist and singer Johnny Copeland. She began singing at an early age and her first public performance was at the Cotton Club when she was about 10. She began to pursue a singing career in earnest at age 16. When her father's health began to decline, he took Shemekia on tour as his opening act, which helped establish her name on the blues circuit. Copeland graduated in 1997 from Teaneck High School in Teaneck, New Jersey.\n\nShe landed a recording contract with Alligator Records, which issued her debut album, \"Turn the Heat Up!\" in 1998, following it up with a tour of the blues festival circuit in America and Europe. Her second album, \"Wicked\", was released in 2000 and featured a duet with one of her heroes, Ruth Brown. It earned her three Blues Music Awards.\n\nThe follow-up record, \"Talking to Strangers\", was produced by Dr. John, and in 2005 she released \"The Soul Truth\", produced by Steve Cropper.\n\nIn 2008, Copeland signed with Telarc International, and released her first album, \"Never Going Back\", with that label in February 2009. She won the \"Rising Star - Blues Artist\" in \"Down Beat\" magazine's critics poll announced in the December 2009 issue.\n\nCopeland participated in the Efes Pilsen Blues Festival in 2009. On June 12, 2011 at the 2011 Chicago Blues Festival, Copeland was presented Koko Taylor's crown, and officially given the honor as the new \"Queen of the Blues\" by Koko Taylor's daughter, Cookie Taylor.\n\nIn 2013, Copeland was nominated for a Blues Music Award in the Contemporary Blues Female Artist' category. She won the title in 2016.\n\nIn October 2015, her album \"Outskirts of Love\" peaked at number 6 in the \"Billboard\" Top Blues Albums chart. In 2017 she participated in Mahindra Blues Festival, Mumbai. In August 2018, her latest album, \"America's Child\", entered the same listing at number 3. The recording won both the 'Album of the Year' and 'Contemporary Album of the Year' titles at the 40th Blues Music Awards in 2019.\n\nIn May 2020, Copeland was presented with another Blues Music Award in the 'Contemporary Blues Female Artist of the Year' category.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284678", "title": "Tourist trolley", "text": "Tourist trolley\n\nA tourist trolley, also called a road trolley, is a rubber-tired bus designed to resemble an old-style streetcar or tram, usually with false clerestory roof. The vehicles are usually fueled by diesel, or sometimes compressed natural gas.\n\nThe name refers to the American English usage of the word \"trolley\" to mean an electric streetcar. As these vehicles are not actually trolleys, and to avoid confusion with trolley buses, the American Public Transportation Association (APTA) refers to them as \"trolley-replica buses\".\n\nTourist trolleys are used by both municipal and private operators. Municipal operators may mix tourist trolleys in with the regular service bus fleet to add more visitor interest or attract attention to new routes. In many cities tourist trolleys are used as circulators. Tourist trolleys are also run by private operators to carry tourists to popular destinations.\n\nIn San Francisco, tourist trolleys mimic the city's famous cable cars.\n\nTourist trolleys sometimes operate in places which also have streetcars. For example, tourist trolleys operate in Philadelphia, which also has actual trolley service.\n\nNotable operators of tourist-trolley buses:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284718", "title": "A.D. Police Files", "text": "A.D. Police Files\n\nA.D. Police Files is a three-part original video animation produced by Youmex and animated by Artmic and AIC. It's a spin-off of the \"Bubblegum Crisis\" series. Due to the legal conflict between Artmic and Youmex, the production of the series was stopped with only three complete episodes made.\n\nChronologically set before the events narrated in Bubblegum Crisis, it tells about AD. Police inspector Leon McNichol's early days in the A.D. Police when he was a mere officer.\n\nAt the beginning of the episode, a heavily-wounded Leon, who is still part of the regular police force, faces down and manages to kill a rampant female Boomer. The action then cuts to a later incident, where regular police are attempting to subdue an older-model female Boomer that has gone rampant in a local tea shop. The Boomer proves too tough for them to take down, killing and injuring several officers, and the A.D. Police are called in to assist. Several AD officers rush the synthetic and attempt to physically shut it down. Alles, one of the A.D. Police's veterans, is shot dead when the Boomer slips out of the squad's control. Having obtained the shop owner's permission, the squad commander orders the boomer to be destroyed by firing squad. Later, as the squad mourns Alles, an administrative official calls the legitimacy of his death into question. He says that after some investigation, there were no faults found in the tea shop boomer's programming, it was simply overworked, and could not be at fault for going haywire. He says that Alles knew the boomer that killed him, frequented the tea shop regularly, and theorizes that he had tampered with the synthetic to kill him so that his family could collect on his large life insurance policy. Leon and Gina both disagree with this claim, and aim to prove it incorrect. They set out to show that other local boomers had hidden faults as well. They make a visit to a hacker contact of Gina's who is able to provide them with a list of possible users that have been illegally recycling old and decommissioned boomers. Meanwhile, they are shadowed by an unknown female, who is revealed to be the boomer Leon killed when he was with the regulars, obsessed with finding him. Gina and Leon split up to follow separate leads on boomer recycling operations. After interrogating a shady factory owner, Gina discovers that the original, recycled boomer was part of an underground sex trafficking business. Leon is stalked by his boomer, but does not recognize her, instead taking her for a common prostitute. The boomer begins erotically fantasizing about Leon killing her again, is driven mad with bloodlust, and attacks him, hoping that he'll shoot her again. In the ensuing fight, Leon is again injured, and runs out of bullets. Just as the psychotic boomer is about to kill him, Gina arrives and puts a round through her head, saving him. The episode ends with Leon questioning whether humans have a place in the city, or whether it belongs to the boomers.\n\nAfter a gruesome murder on the subway in an area called Paradise Loop, A.D. Police steps in to help find the killer when the normal police don't seem up to the task. A total of six prostitutes are found to all have been murdered on this subway line and it is suspected the work is done by a boomer. Two officers of the normal police, Iris Kara and her partner, doubt that the killer is a boomer and are cast in this episode to help find the killer and bring them to justice. While the victims all share the same stabbing to the abdomen, they died however from massive cardiac arrest or shock. Iris goes to the organ bank to replace her eye with a cybernetic one and runs into Leon, who knows her from his time in the regulars. Leon attempts to dissuade her from the surgery, saying she'll lose part of her humanity. Iris laughs it off. Later, during a consult with the doctor, she overhears an argument started by another of the clients, Ms. Caroline Evers, a billionaire and business tycoon. Iris has a hunch Caroline is somehow connected to the murders, and asks Leon and Gina to help her shadow her. They track Caroline to an abandoned industrial district that Paradise Loop runs under. After some further investigation, Iris discovers that Caroline has had her entire lower body replaced with cybernetics. \nWhile investigating Paradise Loop, Iris is ambushed by Caroline. Caroline explains that long ago she had been competing for CEO of her current company, however a man got the job because he concocted a falsified chart that compared her menstrual cycles to her productivity. To alleviate the concerns of the company's board of directors, she had most all of her female organs replaced with cybernetic versions. There no longer being any reason to keep her from becoming CEO, she got the job. In time, the same man came to work under her and they fell in love and eventually married. She later discovered he had cheated on her with a Paradise Loop prostitute, and when asked why, his response was \"real women are better after all.\" After finishing her confession, Caroline moves to kill Iris, but AD Police led by Leon and Gina break through the walls and open fire, saving her. Caroline escapes, and Leon reveals that should more than 70% of the human body becomes cybernetic, a citizen is treated as a \"boomeroid\" and thus can be killed with the same prejudice as a boomer. Iris disagrees, saying that Caroline is still human, and should be arrested instead of killed. Fleeing to a subway train on the Loop, Caroline enters a car full of lowlifes and exposes herself, hoping to feel like a woman again. After AD Police stop the train with crash foam, she is found stabbed to death. Leon remarks that it didn't matter to the city whether or not Caroline was a boomer or a human. The episode closes with Iris opting to undergo the cybernetic surgery, and \"throw away a bit of her humanity.\"\n\nBilly Fanword is captain of the A.D. Police Special Mobile Squad. After sustaining massive injures during a fight with a rogue boomer and almost dying, his only remaining viable organs—his brain and tongue—are transplanted into an experimental battle cyborg body. He has a habit of biting his tongue, as the pain of it reminds him that he was once human. After Billy physically tears apart a heavy boomer in a firefight, concerns are raised about his combat abilities and performance. The doctor who created his body blames him for what she sees as degrading performance, but her colleague argues that since he is not fully a cyborg, as he retains his brain and memories, it is an emotional issue. He suggests that Billy's memories should be wiped to improve his performance. It is revealed that the doctor has developed an unhealthy sexual attraction to Billy and decides to up his dosage of DA-27, a sensory stimulant drug, so that he is more receptive of her overtures. Billy gets hooked on the drug and becomes increasingly aggressive whenever he is deployed, which happens more and more frequently thanks to his doctor's influence. Suspecting something is amiss, Gina, his former lover, confronts the scientist and accuses her of intentionally addicting him. The scientist waves the accusation away, saying that Billy is simply getting back to normal again. Gina disagrees, saying the she can feel that he's changed. As the scientist attempts to wean Billy off DA-27, he flies into a rage and experiences hallucinations. He obtains DA-27 from an illicit source to keep getting high without the scientist's permission. After finding out that she plans to let him die in the line of duty once she has gained prestige from selling his design, he helps himself to a massive dose of DA-27 that finally causes him to lose touch with reality. He kills the scientist when she comes to check up on him, and goes on a rampage through the AD Police station, gunning down many of his comrades. Gina, who has discovered his drug connection, arrives with an anti-tank rifle just in time to stop him from murdering Leon. Billy begs her to kill him, saying that he can't feel anything and that pain will make him human again. As his final request, he asks her to shoot him in his tongue. The episode closes with Billy being buried atop the station, in its cemetery.\n\nIn North America, the series is licensed by AnimEigo, who first released the series to VHS and Laserdisc in 1993 in Japanese with English subtitles. They later reissued it in both formats in 1995 with an English dub produced by Southwynde Studios in Wilmington, NC. The show was released to bilingual DVD in 2004, with bonus content featuring music videos for various songs featured in the series as performed by Filipino singer Lou Bonnevie in addition to translation notes and production artwork. On September 27, 2015, AnimEigo announced that they will be funding a brand new HD telecine of the series from the original 35mm film in-house through Kickstarter, with a Blu-ray release planned for 2016.\n\nIn the UK, the series was licensed by Manga Entertainment, who produced their own English dub for VHS in 1994, and later issued it onto dub-only DVD in 2004. Their release is now out-of-print.\n\nHelen McCarthy in \"500 Essential Anime Movies\" describes \"The Phantom Woman\" as the video \"definitely not for the faint hearted\", noting that the \"design is good and the atmosphere well maintained, but it's Aikawa's script that will stick in your mind\". She also praised \"The Man Who Bites His Tongue\" as a \"stylish, dark retelling of Robocop\".\n\nJustin Sevakis of Anime News Network described A.D. Police Files as being \"a flawed work, but has enough memorable moments and beautiful, macabre touches to redeem it in some way.\"\n\n, a \"seinen\" manga series written by Toshimichi Suzuki and illustrated by Tony Takezaki, is set between the first and the second part of \"A.D. Police Files\". It was serialized by Byakuya Shobo on its \"seinen\" magazine \"Bandai B-Club\" between November 1989 and August 1990. Its chapters were compiled into a single volume that was later translated into English by Viz Communications for the United States and by Manga Books for the British audience and in French by Samourai.\n\nThe manga is set in 2032. The A.D. Police are an elite group of highly trained and specially equipped police officers, who have been formed to deal with terrorist activities and Boomer crimes in the city of Mega Tokyo.\n\nThe A.D. Police are offered a great deal of leeway in their activities, often blockading large sections of the city and causing great amounts of property damage in the course of fulfilling their duty. Despite their dedication to their jobs, however, the citizens of Mega Tokyo tend to dislike and distrust members of the A.D. Police, seeing them as corrupt and ineffectual.\n\nExploring \"A.D. Police Files\" setting, nine years later AIC team created a twelve-episode anime television series called \"A.D. Police: To Protect and Serve\" that was broadcast by TV Tokyo.\n\nAnother three-episode OVA series by AIC, \"Parasite Dolls\", was released in 2003.\n\n"}
{"id": "2284723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284723", "title": "Maro Ajemian", "text": "Maro Ajemian\n\nMaro Ajemian (July 9, 1921 – September 18, 1978) was an American pianist. Ajemian's career in contemporary music grew from her Armenian heritage. She became known as a contemporary pianist after performing the U.S. premiere of Aram Khachaturian's Piano Concerto, which she chose to play based on their shared Armenian heritage.\n\nAjemian studied at the Juilliard School of Music. On March 14, 1942, she gave the American premiere of Aram Khachaturian's Piano Concerto in D flat with the Juilliard Graduate Orchestra under Albert Stoessel. She later performed the piece on a cross-country tour. Following her performances of the Piano Concerto, Ajemian began meeting contemporary composers and, together with her sister, the violinist Anahid Ajemian, she became known as a champion of new music, presenting the premieres of many new works by American composers. Among these were John Cage, Alan Hovhaness, Henry Cowell, Ernst Krenek, Lou Harrison, and Gunther Schuller.Cage dedicated his \"Sonatas and Interludes\" to her and she made the first recording of them for Dial Records in 1951.\n\nAjemian was particularly fond of the music of Hovhaness, a fellow Armenian American, and co-founded a New York City-based organization, the Friends of Armenian Music Committee, which promoted his music during the 1940s, presenting annual concerts in such high-profile venues as Town Hall. These concerts were well reviewed by such critics as Lou Harrison, Virgil Thomson, and Olin Downes, and served to launch Hovhaness into the national spotlight.\n\nShe died of heart valve failure at the age of 57.\n"}
{"id": "2284726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284726", "title": "Long Path", "text": "Long Path\n\nThe Long Path is a long-distance hiking trail beginning at the George Washington Bridge in Fort Lee, New Jersey and ending at Altamont, New York, in the Albany area. While not yet a continuous trail, relying on road walks in some areas, it nevertheless takes in many of the popular hiking attractions west of the Hudson River, such as the New Jersey Palisades, Harriman State Park, the Shawangunk Ridge and the Catskill Mountains. It offers hikers a diversity of environments to pass through, from suburbia and sea-level salt marshes along the Hudson to wilderness and boreal forest on Catskill summits in elevation.\n\nWhen conceived in the 1930s, it was to be the antithesis of a hiking trail, with neither a designated route nor blazes, simply a list of points of interest hikers could find their own routes to. However, increasing development after World War II in Orange and Rockland counties made that less workable, and it was revived in the 1960s as a standard trail. Plans call for it to be extended through the Adirondacks to the Canada–US border.\n\nVincent Joseph Schaefer, a scientist who worked in Schenectady for General Electric, began to imagine a \"hiker's route\" from New York City to the Adirondacks shortly after helping to found the Mohawk Valley Hiking Club in 1929. He was very clear on one thing: that it \"not\" be marked as a trail.\n\n\"Schaefer envisioned resourceful hikers making use of what they found along the way,\" say historians Guy and Laura Waterman — whether hikers' trails, back roads, abandoned wood roads, tow paths, creek beds, game trails, plus occasional bushwhacks where that appeared to offer the most interesting route.\" They quote him describing the Long Path as:\n...[A] route that a person having good \"woods\" sense could use to move across a region using compass and \"topo\" map, and that in a meandering way would lead such persons to most of the interesting scenic vistas, rock formations, choice or unique vegetation, historical sites and similar items that a certain type of outdoors person enjoys.\n\nHe wrote to an official at Harriman that:\n\nThere would be no cutting or blazing, for this trail would be a truly wild walk that wouldn't erode the land or scar the solitude ... and each found site would be an adventure in orienteering.\nHe named his idea the Long Path after Walt Whitman's line about \"the long brown path that leads wherever I choose\" from his poem \"Song of the Open Road\". Since that was also where Raymond H. Torrey, the \"New York Post\"'s influential hiking columnist, had gotten the name for his column, it was a smart public relations choice. Torrey, who had done much to get the Appalachian Trail built, both physically and in print, in the New York metropolitan area the previous decade, announced the idea in a column in 1933. Another strong advocate in the early days was a transplanted Coloradan, W. W. Cady, who came to be identified with the Long Path almost as much as Schaefer.\n\nHe and Torrey, who devoted a series of columns to it the next year, scouted a \"trail\" from the city to the Catskills, while Schaefer and his brother did the same for the northern half. Several alternative endpoints were envisioned: the \"History\" chapter of the \"Guide to the Long Path\" places the end at Whiteface Mountain in the Adirondack High Peaks, but Torrey's column of August 21, 1934 places the terminus at the Adirondak Loj at Lake Clear of Heart (now called Heart Lake). The column further discusses possible extensions: a route over Wallface Mountain to join the Northville-Placid Trail by way of Henderson Lake and the Preston Ponds; a climb over Mount Van Hoevenberg and traverse of the Sentinel Range Wilderness Area to emerge at Jay, New York; and possible routes to the Canadian border, either to the Thousand Islands to the west or along the Chateaugay River to the north. Curiously, Schaefer's account in Torrey's column never mentions Whiteface as a possible ending point.\n\nTo Schaefer, once this route was scouted, it was finished, per his concept ... \"(it) exist(s) as soon as the route had been field explored and then marked on a topo map, and so had become available to the person who appreciates such things.\" However, very few of these people could be counted among the hiking community of the day, to whom a trail was something to follow, and they had difficulty grasping the concept that the trail was open. Schaefer and hiking club pal Al Getz followed the Long Path from Schenectady to Edward's Hill in the southern Adirondacks, near Bakers Mills, New York, in the late 1930s, but as Schaefer and Cady became involved in the war effort and drifted away from the hiking community, the idea of the Long Path as originally conceived quickly became part of history.\n\nIn 1960, Robert Jessen of the Ramapo Ramblers hiking club, and another city-based hiker, Michael Warren, revived the idea. Since Rockland and Orange counties had become more developed even then, they abandoned the original concept of an unmarked route and pushed instead a conventional trail, although it had to make use of road routes. Over the next two decades they were successful in establishing a continuous trail from the George Washington Bridge to the southern Catskills, helped by a major relocation of the trail up Peekamoose Mountain and its continuation over Peekamoose's neighbor, Table Mountain (which previously had no established trails), crossing the east branch of the Neversink River and enabling a link with the existing Catskill trail system.\n\nThe Catskill route was finally completed in 1987 when a trail was built connecting the snowmobile loop around Kaaterskill High Peak to Palenville. A further missing link, from the Sam's Point Preserve in the Shawangunks to VerKeerderkill Falls, was cut a decade later.\n\nIn 1991, Vince Schaefer prepared a guide to the Long Path north (LPN) section, consisting of a set of five sets of short descriptions of 80+ \"Landmarks\" with accompanying topographic map locations. The guide was crafted as a hiker's pocket-sized book, entitled \"Field Guide to the Landmarks of the Long Path of New York: Northern Section -- Gilboa to Whiteface Mt.\", prepared by Vincent J Schaefer 1931-1991 with the original route and philosophy.\n\nSchaefer's son, James M. Schaefer, joined the Long Path North Hiking Club Trail Committee, sharing sets of letters, sketches and plans from his father's files to push the Long Path into the 21st century. With members of the club, a route was set, landmarks were located by Global Positioning System, and digital photos were established for 80-plus places that Schaefer reckoned to be worthy of attention.\n\nOn the ground, a low-volume road walk was located through Albany, Schenectady and Saratoga counties, crossing the Helderbergs and the Rotterdam Hills to the Mohawk River. The LPN connected to county and state parks whenever possible and had a goal of relocating sections \"off-road\". Across the Mohawk the Long Path coursed into the Glenville Hills, with a major off-road section atop Wolf Hollow.\n\nAs it reached the (southern) Adirondack Blue Line, just north of Lake Desolation, the Long Path took on a \"Forever-Wild\" character, becoming a bushwhack, a landmark-to-landmark trek through the southern and central park into the High Peaks, following log roads, existing trails, and low volume roads to eventually reach the top of Whiteface Mountain, with its climate observation tower — SUNY's \"Schaefer Observatory\" of 1980 Olympic fame — as the last cached location of the Long Path.\n\nIn summary, the Long Path has become a hybrid trail. A 70-year-old first — an ecologically sensitive \"path\" from high density urban centers, across the spectacular Eastern New York high country, to the remote, serene, and untampered wilderness. The blazed of the LP are tailor-made for the traditional blazed-trail hiker, the low-volume road-walk affords the physically challenged with a way to appreciate semi-wild places accompanied by culturally, geologically and historic way-side landmarks. And for the woods savvy hiker, the bushwhacks through the last of the Long Path capture Vince Schaefer's original vision — a tramp across short distances using 'dead-reckoning, modern point-to-point \"geocaching\" and sheer map reading, orienteering skills'. 75 years after the thought, a \"Long Brown Path\" exists.\n\nAs the lower trail neared completion to the northern boundary of Catskill Park at Route 23 in Windham in 1985, H. Neil Zimmerman of the New York–New Jersey Trail Conference renewed interest in the Adirondack connection. The Long Path North Hiking Club was formed, and after some negotiations with area landowners of trail were opened in 1990. By the middle of the decade, it would extend north of its former terminus, to the Indian Ladder in John Boyd Thacher State Park. In the early 2000s, a further were opened and blazed to Route 146, and informal road blazes existed from there to the Mohawk and the Adirondack Park Blue Line.\n\nPerhaps reflecting its origins as a trail that wasn't really a trail, the Long Path in the early 21st century is a work in progress, continually evolving even in those places where it has long been a presence. Relocations continue to be made and new sections opened.\n\nThe central Catskills have seen the greatest activity. In 1999, trail crews completed work on a section starting at the Willow Trail near the summit of Mount Tremper near Phoenicia, descending down into the neighboring valley and then over \"Edgewood Mountain\" into Silver Hollow Notch, where it follows an old road down to Route 214. This section eliminated a lengthy road walk to Willow, albeit at the price of a road walk into Stony Clove Notch. However, this added Plateau Mountain to the trail route, and pending future approval from the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation and an amendment to the Unit Management Plan for the Indian Head Wilderness Area, a new section will be built to follow a ridge from Silver Hollow Notch to the Devil's Path on Plateau and eliminate that road walk.\n\nNot long afterwards, the state purchased the former Lundy estate in the vicinity of Kerhonkson, straddling the Catskill Park Blue Line near the southern tip of the park. The new property, once occupied by an owner of Lundy's Restaurant, is to become a state forest outside the park and a new Wild Forest within it. It will also allow for the relocation of the Long Path off roads to follow the Vernooy Kill. The relocation would rejoin the present Long Path route at Vernooy Falls west of Riggsville in the Ulster County township of Rochester.\n\nIn late 2001, the Catskill Center for Conservation and Development allowed the construction of a new trail across its Platte Clove Preserve. It was added to the Long Path, and allowed for a rerouting of the route along existing trails to take in Indian Head Mountain and its stunning views of the Hudson Valley, as well as eliminating a road walk that previously existed.\n\nIn 2007 the road walk on Route 214 was eliminated. Volunteers extended the Warner Creek Trail with a direct connection between Silver hollow Notch and Plateau Mountain. This created a section of trail between Phoenicia and Platte Clove without any road crossings.\n\nTo the south of Phoenicia, from the Burroughs Range Trail near Wittenberg Mountain, a new section of trail has been constructed for the Long Path. This route crosses Cross Mountain, Mount Pleasant and Romer Mountain. It comes out on Lane Street in Phoenicia. This section opened on Trails Day June 7, 2014. This has eliminated the more than road walk out of Woodland Valley State Campground.\n\nAll these changes have combined or will to make the of Long Path in the Catskill Park almost entirely off-road.\n\nIn the Shawangunks, new agreements with landowners and/or changes in ownership have also made eliminations of road walks possible.\n\nFurther south, in heavily suburbanized Rockland County, where some road walks are now mostly unavoidable, the county's Planning Board has made the Long Path route an area of special attention and one of its spines for open space preservation efforts, trying to convince its local counterparts to protect the corridor.\n\nNorth of the Catskills, the Long Path North Committee continues its efforts to bypass road walks and route the trail into more wooded areas, particularly the small state forests in Schoharie County. The main problem the trail faces there, ironically, is under-use. Some sections just north of the Catskill Park are getting overgrown and only the blazes remain to indicate the trail. Increasing public awareness of the trail and promoting use of various sections continues to be a concern.\n\nLastly, in 2015 the southern end of the trail was moved to New York City, to the 175th Street subway station in the Washington Heights section of Manhattan.\n\nFrom the earliest days of the Long Path one of the most difficult issues has been how to get the trail across northern Orange County as a footpath. Between Schunemunk Mountain and the Shawangunks lies the broad valley of the Wallkill River and the many lowlands within, then heavily farmed and now heavily developed.\n\nMajor progress has been made in Orange County. In 2012 almost half of the of road walking in Orange County were eliminated by relocating the Long Path onto the Heritage Trail, an Orange County rail-trail. Leaving the rail trail in New Hampton, the trail follows rural roads to the Shawangunk Ridge in Greenville. The online guide suggests that it might be a pleasant route for bicycling.\n\nThere is hope for moving more of the trail off the roads of western Orange County. South of I-84 still needs to be explored as farms, town parks, conservation easements and even an abandoned rail bed are all possibly available. North of I-84 also needs to be explored as it contains farms, conservation easements and watershed land for both Orange County and the city of Middletown.\n\nOne way of solving the Orange County problem, avoiding it entirely, came out the joint efforts of the New York - New Jersey Trail Conference and the National Park Service. In 1989, they conducted a feasibility study on the idea of abandoning northern Orange County altogether and simply having the trail follow the Appalachian Trail from the junction in Harriman to High Point State Park in northwestern New Jersey, where a new trail would then be constructed to link up with the current LP along the ridge near Wurtsboro. The result was the Shawangunk Ridge Trail, a connector which drew on a possible AT relocation that had first been considered in 1965, before the National Scenic Trails Act made it possible to protect the existing route.\n\nThe SRT starts at the Appalachian Trail in High Point State Park in New Jersey. The Long Path meets up with the SRT after , and the two trails run together for the next . At times it hugs the base of the ridge in some areas due to land-access issues, and has some road walks, but these are slowly being eliminated. The low-lying route in Sullivan County actually is something of a blessing, as it allows hikers to take in the magnificent Basha Kill Wildlife Management Area.\n\nThe AT-SRT detour is the route currently recommended by the Trail Conference for anyone considering a thru-hike of the LP, due to its better capacity for camping and fewer road walks, despite the additional it adds to the trip. However, if doing the Long Path as individual day hikes, it is best to remain on the main trail. Taking the AT one misses the entire north end of Harriman State Park, Schunemunk Mountain and the Heritage Trail.\n\nThe Long Path is under the purview of the Trail Conference, which divides it geographically into three sections:\n\n\nAs the areas under the jurisdiction of the latter are somewhat beyond the Trail Conference's usual reach in the Greater New York area, the Long Path North Committee functions somewhat independently. In the future, when the trail begins to extend into the Adirondacks, it is likely that the Adirondack Mountain Club or some other group based in the region will have management responsibilities for those sections.\n\nThroughout most of its length, whether on or off the road, the Long Path is indicated by a aqua blaze. In some areas where blazes have not been repainted in some time, older light blue blazes may be found, but the distinctive aqua (sometimes referred to, incorrectly, in some guidebooks as teal) indicates the Long Path, and only the Long Path.\n\nIn the Catskills and the state forests on the Shawangunk Ridge, the trail uses official NYSDEC markers — blue in the Shawangunks, and whatever color is used for the particular trail in the Catskills the LP follows. Markers with the Long Path logo (see above), either in aqua or blue (if older), can sometimes be found on signage at junctions where the LP changes trails.\n\nThe mile-long trail through the Catskill Center's Platte Clove Preserve follows green diamond-shaped metal markers with the Center's logo on it.\n\nFinally, the section in Thacher State Park follows aqua plastic markers with the LP logo.\n\nThe Shawangunk Ridge Trail uses either the aqua blazes or blue NYSDEC markers, depending on whether it is on public or private land.\n\nWhen it began to be established as a marked trail, the Long Path was not built with an eye toward being \"thru-hiked\" in one continuous trip, as it was more a backbone for creating hiking opportunities in areas which did not yet have them and thus ideal for day trips or short overnights. The Trail Conference did give out rockers for those who completed a tally sheet of trips made on different dates. The trail, even with the AT/Shawangunk Ridge detour available, was difficult for those from out of the region who would need access to maildrops and places to sleep in the areas where camping is not permitted.\n\nAfter several dozen hikers had earned these, it was perhaps inevitable that someone would be the Earl Shaffer of the Long Path, and on May 30, 1998, Mary Ann Nissley of Chalfont, Pennsylvania, a woman with experience hiking many long-distance trails, completed the first Long Path thru-hike in 25 days. Several others have followed since. \n\nThe current Long Path guidebook now has information on nearby post offices, motels and other things useful for those contemplating a thru-hike.\n\nOn May 24, 2005, trail runner David O'Neill, the founder of Charity Runners Inc., finished the first thru-run of the Long Path, as a benefit for the Trail Conference. He had started on the first of the month; his time of 24 days is the current record for fastest journey up the Long Path. (This included five days where he rested and allowed injuries to heal, and one day he did as a normal hike.)\n\nOn May 13, 2006, O'Neill repeated the benefit thru-run and became the first to complete a thru-run of the Long Path using the AT-SRT detour. He started on the first of the month and completed the journey in 12 days, 5 hours, and 17 minutes.\n\nIn 2009, Jacob Aronson fulfilled Vincent Schaefer's original concept of hiking from the George Washington Bridge to Schaefer Observatory atop Whiteface Mountain in the Adirondacks. He arrived in Altamont, New York, on July 6 to complete his thru-hike of the Long Path in 27 days. Using a combination of road walks and the Northville-Placid Trail, he made his way from Altamont to Lake Placid, where he climbed nearby Whiteface Mountain on July 25, 46 days after he began hiking.\n\nOn July 26, 2013 Daniel J. Rosenthal of Sunderland, Vermont, became the first person to complete a southbound thru-hike on the trail.\n\nOn September 3, 2013, Kenneth Posner of New York City completed a through-run using the Long Path's 2012 re-route on the Schunemunk Ridge in Orange County, along the Orange Heritage Trail, and to the Shawangunk Ridge Trail in Greenville. His run was mostly self-supported (for the first ); he put food/supply caches at six points along the route, and slept on the ground (on a sleep mat) at places along the trailside. It took him nine days to complete the entire trail, the current record.\n\nCurrently, from its new beginning just slightly south of the old one, the LP goes over the bridge approach and then a pedestrian bridge over a ramp from the bridge to the Palisades Interstate Parkway. After that, it enters the park along the cliff edges that it will remain in for the next to the state line, running through the woods next to Palisades Parkway at times and even passing through some of its rest stops and parking areas.\n\nOnce past the stone monument at the state line, it briefly dips back into New Jersey, then moves closer to U.S. Route 9W near Columbia University's Lamont–Doherty Earth Observatory, then heading for Tallman Mountain State Park, where it climbs the eponymous feature, then descends to the trail's lowest elevation, a mere above sea level as it crosses Sparkill Creek on a wooden bridge.\n\nClimbing and crossing Route 9W again, it passes through the low hills in and near two county parks as it climbs up toward Blauvelt State Park, then drops into Nyack, where it crosses the New York State Thruway for the first time. After passing through Mountainview County Nature Park, it follows 9W for a mile or so, then leaves it for Hook Mountain State Park and its dramatic views over the Hudson's Haverstraw Bay. It then drops down to the small Haverstraw Beach State Park and follows a road out of it into High Tor State Park, where the bare summit of the tor, the highest peak of the Palisades at , affords the best views of this section of the Hudson Valley.\n\nAfter High Tor, it stays on the ridge of South Mountain County Park as it curves away from the river, toward a crossing of the Palisades Parkway, US 202 and NY 45 in Mount Ivy. Again, the trail follows along in the woods along the parkway's right of way until it can enter Cheesecote Town Park. After that, it's a short road walk that finally allows the trail to enter Harriman State Park.\n\nThe trail meanders through this southern part of the park, briefly joining with the cross-park Suffern-Bear Mountain Trail, passing St.-John's-in-the-Wilderness Church, and finally reaching Seven Lakes Drive at Lake Skannatati. North of there, it briefly joins the Dunning Trail and wanders among the ruins of an abandoned iron mine and joins the Arden-Surebridge Trail at the junction colloquially called \"Times Square\". Leaving it to run alongside Dismal Swamp, it crosses the Appalachian Trail not long afterwards, then continues north towards the Lake Cohasset Shelter where camping is permitted. It then runs along the crest of Stockbridge Mountain, passing the Stockbridge and Stockbridge Cave Shelters, and afterwards works its way down to US 6 by way of a fire road.\n\nIt follows an access road into a parking area, then climbs up Long Mountain to a memorial in honor of and at a favorite view of Raymond H. Torrey, who did much to make the trail possible. Then it heads westward, skirting at times the boundary of the United States Military Academy (West Point) property, crossing NY 293 and following it and later Route 6 closely in neighboring woods until it can finally leave Harriman Park behind and drop down to local roads in the Central Valley area, cross the Thruway again, then along Woodbury Creek on a dirt road to NY 32 and Schunemunk Mountain.\n\nOn Schunemunk, it ascends some subsidiary knobs with sweeping views of the whole area, and then follows the Jessup Trail southwest, where it passes commanding view across the Moodna and Wallkill valleys, and then drops off to Gonzaga Park, which bring it past the Orange and Rockland Lakes, then across Route 17 to the Heritage Trail. Following this rail trail, it passes many nice wetlands, the Black Dirt Farms in Chester, and through the historic village of Goshen. Leaving the rail trail it follows local back roads over the Wallkill River and into the town of Wawayanda. Crossing I-84 the road walk reaches Mountain Road in Greenville and ends at the Shawangunk Ridge. Cross the ridge on a recently preserved parcel joining the Shawangunk Ridge Trail.\n\nThe trail stays on the west side of the ridgeline, following an abandoned rail bed that once crossed the mountain. Leaving the rail bed at Route 211, the trail passes through a state forest parcel and crosses into Sullivan County where it passes through the Bashakill Wildlife Management Area. The trail reaches the village of Wurtsboro, then climbs back up to the ridgecrest and mostly follows it, as it works its way into Ulster County. The trail briefly follows an old dirt turnpike which runs parallel to and below NY 52 as it descends toward South Gully, then climbs up to Sam's Point through the South Gully, following South Gully Brook at times.\n\nAfter following some of the old dirt roads from the days when the nearby ice caves were a tourist attraction, the trail follows a path through the dwarf pine forest to VerKeerderkill Falls. This section has been identified as their favorite by many who have hiked much or all of the Long Path, as the shortness of the trees gives a feeling of being above tree line and allows for constant views of the ridge ahead and behind, the Mid-Hudson valley to one side and the Catskills to the other. The falls themselves are a unique sight. After the falls the trail crosses High Point and Smiley Carriageway, then descends through Mine Hole to Berme Road. \n\nAfter crossing Berme Road, the trail follows the D & H Canal towpath, to the hamlet of Port Ben. It then crosses Rondout Creek and US 209, following little-traveled local roads from there to the Catskill Park Blue Line. Shortly after entering the Catskills, it reaches the Vernooy Kill Falls, another popular day trip. It then climbs over Bangle Hill in the Sundown Wild Forest and descends steeply to an undeveloped state campground at Bull Run. A reroute through the Vernooy Kill State Forest, originally planned to open in 2016, will significantly reduce the road walk through this area. As of February 2020, the new route has not yet been completed. \n\nOne of the most challenging sections of the Long Path is ahead as it meets its first two Catskill High Peaks, climbing more than in to the summit of Peekamoose Mountain, then cresting neighboring Table Mountain after a brief dip.\n\nFrom there it drops down to cross the East Branch of the Neversink River and then back up again slightly to a junction with the Phoenicia-East Branch Trail and the east end of the Finger Lakes Trail. It follows the Phoenicia-East Branch Trail up to a col to the east of Wildcat Mountain, then up the beautiful Curtis-Ormsbee Trail to the summit ridge of Slide Mountain, where the Burroughs Range Trail takes it a short distance to the highest peak in the Catskills and the highest point on the LP, approximately above sea level.\n\nIt makes a rough descent over Cornell and Wittenberg mountains down to Cross Mountain, crosses the ridge-line of Cross Mountain, then passes just below the summit of Mount Pleasant and across Romer Mountain, then follows the road out to Phoenicia.\n\nCrossing NY 28 and going through Phoenicia, an oasis of civilization amid the mountains, the Long Path follows a road east out of town to the trailhead for Mount Tremper, where it follows the old road up to the fire tower, which offers splendid views of the entire region. Continuing on down to Warners Creek and then up Edgewood Mountain, where views north have been cut, it drops down again via Silver Hollow Notch to ascend Daley Ridge, joining the Devil's Path, perhaps the most challenging and rewarding trail in the Catskills, west of the summit of Plateau. It follows the Devil's Path across Plateau, Sugarloaf, Twin and Indian Head mountains down to the Platte Clove Preserve, then makes a brief road walk to the Kaaterskill High Peak snowmobile trail. On the north side of that peak, the Long Path descends more than via a zigzag route past several waterfalls to Palenville, crosses NY 23A, then goes back up the other side of Kaaterskill Clove via the Old Overlook Road to the Escarpment Trail, the site of the legendary Catskill Mountain House, North–South Lake State Campground, and finally up to North Mountain with its inspiring views back over the Escarpment and the lakes.\n\nEventually the trail tops out on Stoppel Point near an old wrecked plane, then drops down into Dutcher Notch and then back up to a ridge culminating in a steep ascent up Blackhead Mountain and its summit, then down again to Acra Point, Burnt Knob and finally Windham High Peak, the northernmost of the Catskill High Peaks. Descending leisurely to NY 23, it leaves the Catskill Park but not the Catskills, as it immediately goes over several ranges of peaks to Ashland Pinnacle. A side trail, a former route of the Long Path, continues to Huntersfield Mountain, where NYSDEC has cut some views near the summit.\nFrom Ashland Pinnacle, the trail makes its way via a combination of roads, woodlots and field edges to Schoharie Reservoir, crosses the Schoharie Creek and enters the county of the same name. First stop is Mine Kill State Park and its waterfall, then the trail crosses through the woods to Lansing Manor at the Blenheim-Gilboa Power Project. continues via Burnt-Rossman Hills, Mallet Pond and Patria state forests on the other side, then up NY 30 to Vroman's Nose, a popular local hike.\n\nAfterwards, it recrosses the Schoharie into the village of Middleburgh and follows NY 145 briefly to climb the Middleburgh cliffs, then makes its way across Cotton Hill and Dutch Settlement state forests to Albany County, where it takes in the Partridge Run Wildlife Management Area, Cole Hill State Forest, and the Helderberg Escarpment, which it follows north through John Boyd Thacher State Park, with its Indian Ladder. Currently Thacher State Park is the end of the trail for end-to-enders, but a partially off-road route has been blazed across the Mohawk River at Lock 9 park to the Saratoga County line, and from there a road walk is described to the Northville-Placid Trail within the Adirondack Park.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284741", "title": "Enemy of God (album)", "text": "Enemy of God (album)\n\nEnemy of God is the eleventh studio album by German thrash metal band Kreator. The gothenburg influences of the band's previous album, \"Violent Revolution\", became more prominent on this album. It was released by Steamhammer Records on January 10 in Europe and South America and on January 11, 2005 in North America. On October 27, 2006, the album was re-released in a digipak under the name \"Enemy of God: Revisited\", with a 5.1 DTS 96/24 mix, featuring two bonus tracks from the Japanese edition and a bonus DVD.\n\nA limited edition digipak was also released with a bonus DVD (PAL format and a very limited edition with DVD NTSC format in North America).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284743", "title": "Missile Me!", "text": "Missile Me!\n\nMissile Me! is the second studio album by the Japanese rock band Guitar Wolf. It was released in Japan in July 1995, then in the US on November 19, 1996.Cover Images by Dominik Huber / Dominikphoto.com\n\n"}
{"id": "2284746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284746", "title": "Lorraine Broderick", "text": "Lorraine Broderick\n\nLorraine Broderick (born 1948) is an American television soap opera writer. She got her start on \"All My Children\" as a protégée of the show's creator, Agnes Nixon. She went on to serve four different stints as its Head Writer, ultimately earning her four Daytime Emmy awards in that capacity. Broderick's work on the show has often been met with critical acclaim, citing her as its finest head writer outside of Nixon. She was the last head writer of \"All My Children's\" 40-year broadcast run on ABC, penning the show through its network finale on September 23, 2011.\n\nLorraine Broderick graduated from Andover High School in 1966 and Mt. Holyoke College in 1970. She joined \"All My Children\" as scriptwriter and breakdown writer in 1979, under the guidance of then-head writer Agnes Nixon. In 1982, Broderick would promote to an Associate Head Writer alongside fellow Nixon protégée Wisner Washam, who himself would be promoted to Head Writer the following year. In 1986, Broderick was appointed Co-Head Writer, sharing duties with Washam, who would exit the show himself in 1987 – leaving Broderick as the sole head writer. Broderick won her first Outstanding Writing Team Daytime Emmy award as head writer alongside Washam in 1988. However, a network mandate for creative changes had Broderick demoted back to Associate Head Writer, when Margaret DePriest was appointed head writer of \"All My Children\" in early 1989. But DePriest would not last long in the position, as Agnes Nixon would resume head writing duties by the end of that year – once again with Broderick and a returned Wisner Washam as her Associate Head Writers.\n\nAfter 12 years with All My Children's writing team, Broderick left in 1991 to become the co-head writer of \"Guiding Light\". While Broderick wrote for \"Guiding Light\", the show received much critical acclaim, and the early 1990s are widely considered to have been a golden era for the show. In the spring of 1995, when Megan McTavish was fired from her writing post at \"All My Children\", Broderick left her post as Associate Head Writer of \"Another World\" to once again become AMC's head writer. Broderick would win three consecutive Daytime Emmy awards for Outstanding Writing Team from her work as head writer of the show, bringing her total to four Emmy honors as a daytime head writer. She left \"All My Children\" for the second time in December 1997 when ABC Daytime decided to bring back McTavish.\n\nIn early 1998, Broderick was hired at CBS Daytime's \"As the World Turns\" where her most notable story was the resurrection of evil David Stenbeck and the switch of Lily Snyder's baby with another baby.\n\nIn July 1999, a complete behind-the-scenes overhaul at the show led to Broderick's exit. Shortly after, she was hired by \"Days of Our Lives\" Executive Producer Ken Corday to helm his show's writing team. However, she was there for less than a month before she left over disagreements with Co-Executive Producer Tom Langan (who would assume the writing duties himself). Reportedly, Langan wanted to rapidly age the next generation of teens and immediately place them in front-burner storylines, while Broderick wanted to phase them in gradually; Broderick's character-driven storytelling style was also reportedly not favored by Langan, who preferred more outlandish plotting.\n\nBroderick then joined \"Port Charles\" as an Associate Head Writer, before being appointed head writer of \"One Life to Live\" in January 2001. In 2003, she was demoted to associate head writer upon the return of famed \"One Life to Live\" writing team Michael Malone and Josh Griffith. At that time, ABC Daytime President Brian Frons offered Broderick a return to the head writing duties at \"All My Children\", but she declined. Broderick left \"One Life to Live\" altogether in 2004, returning to \"Guiding Light\" for a short stint as Associate Head Writer, during the show's transition to a new head writing team.\n\nShe would eventually accept a position as a screenwriting and playwriting professor at Drexel University in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. This move reunited her with her former colleague, Felicia Minei Behr, former executive producer of \"All My Children\" and \"As the World Turns\", who served at Drexel as a professor of film & TV production.\n\nIn November 2009, Broderick returned to \"All My Children\" at the request of her one-time mentor, Agnes Nixon – following the dismissal of outgoing head writer Charles Pratt Jr. – as part of ABC's concerted effort to increased ratings. However, Broderick once again passed on being head writer in a permanent capacity. On January 13, 2010, ABC announced David Kreizman and Donna Swajeski as the new head writers. Broderick would continue as the interim head writer until her successors were in place on March 15, 2010. She then assumed her duties as Associate Head Writer.\n\nOn April 2, 2011, amid rumors of \"All My Children's\" possible cancellation, Soaps in Depth broke the news via Twitter that Broderick was once again named the show's head writer, replacing Kreizman and Swajeski. The show's cancellation was announced just two weeks later, with Broderick writing the show through its conclusion on September 23, 2011. She then returned to \"One Life to Live\" as a breakdown writer until that show's finale on January 13, 2012.\n\nIn April 2012, it was confirmed that Broderick would join the team of new \"Days of our Lives\" co-head writers Gary Tomlin and Christopher Whitesell as a breakdown writer.\n\n\"All My Children\"\n\n\"Another World\" (hired by Peggy Sloane)\n\n\"As the World Turns\" (hired by Mary Alice Dwyer-Dobbin)\n\n\"Days of Our Lives\" (hired by Ken Corday)\n\n\"Guiding Light\"\n\n\"One Life to Live\"\n\n\"Port Charles\"\n\nDaytime Emmy Awards\n\nWINS\n\nNOMINATIONS \n\nWriters Guild of America Award\n\nWINS\n\nNOMINATIONS \n"}
{"id": "2284748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284748", "title": "Marie Luise von Degenfeld", "text": "Marie Luise von Degenfeld\n\nLuise von Degenfeld (28 November 1634 – 18 March 1677) was the morganatic second wife of Charles I Louis, Elector Palatine.\n\nBorn Maria Susanne Luise von Degenfeld in Strasbourg, she was the daughter of an impoverished baron, Martens-Christof von Degenfeld and his wife, Maria Anna Adelmann von Adelmannsfelden. In 1650 she was appointed a lady-in-waiting at the Electoral Palace at Heidelberg to Charlotte of Hesse-Kassel, the consort of Charles I Louis, Elector Palatine. He was the son and heir of Frederick V, the \"Winter King\" of Bohemia, by Elizabeth Stuart, daughter of James I of England.\n\nAlthough the marriage of the Elector and Electress was notoriously unhappy, Charlotte openly protesting that it had been contracted against her will, Luise initially declined to become the Elector's mistress. On 6 January 1658, acting on his own sovereign authority, the Prince-Elector contracted a morganatic but arguably bigamous (cf. \"cuius regio, eius religio\") second marriage with the young Baroness von Degenfeld at Schwetzingen Castle, then a hunting lodge, midway between Heidelberg and Mannheim, Germany. From 31 December 1667 the Prince-Elector and his court accorded Luise the title of \"the Raugravine\" (\"Raugrafin\"), and the corresponding titles of Raugrave/Raugravine without territorial suffix, to each of her children, distinguishing them from the children of his first, dynastic marriage (which the Electress always refused to acknowledge as legally terminated), the future Elector Palatine Charles II and the future Duchess of Orléans, Elisabeth Charlotte (\"Liselotte\").\n\nThirteen children were born to the Elector and the Raugravine between October 1658 and April 1675. The only one of her children to marry and have children was the Raugravine Caroline Elisabeth (1659-1696), who married an ardent suitor, Meinhard, 3rd Duc de Schomberg, 1st Duke of Leinster in 1683, receiving 20,000 florins from Elector Charles II. When the Edict of Nantes was revoked in France, the Schombergs emigrated to England rather than convert to Catholicism.\n\nThree of Luise's sons were killed in battle, and one was killed in a duel. The youngest, the Raugrave Karl-Moritz (1671-1702), was a favorite of his half-sister, Elizabeth Charlotte of the Palatinate (referred to as \"Madame\"), and visited her several times at the French court, once seeking to provoke a duel with her husband's lover and major-domo, the Chevalier de Lorraine. \"Madame's\" efforts to intervene on his behalf to obtain an appanage from her brother, the Elector Charles II, were rebuffed. Thus the impecunious and alcoholic Karl-Moritz died unmarried, last of the Wittelsbach raugraves.\n\nOn 26 February 1677, Charles I Louis invested his two elder sons by Luise von Degenfeld, the Raugraves Karl-Ludwig and Karl-Eduard, with the lordship of Stebbach in Kraichgau. A portion of this estate had belonged in fief to the \"von Gemmingen\" family since 1577. When it came in its entirety to the Elector Palatine in 1677 under the administration of the city of Hilsbach, he transferred his rights therein to the two raugraves.\n\nCharles I died in 1680, followed by his son and heir by his first wife, Charles II, in 1685. The new Elector Palatine Philip William of Neuburg, a distant, Catholic relative, seized Stebbach upon Karl-Eduard's death in 1690. But in addition to several daughters, Charles I still had a living son of his second marriage, Raugrave Karl-Moritz. Thanks to the protests of his maternal uncle, Baron Ferdinand von Degenfeld, the estate was deeded over to Karl-Moritz, the last raugrave, on 27 September 1695.\n\nStebbach was again seized by the Elector Palatine upon the latter's death in 1702. A successful appeal against this act was made, this time on behalf of the two surviving daughters of Charles I and Luise von Degenfeld, the Raugravines Louise (1661-1733) and Amalia (1663-1709), the former of whom managed the estates of her brother-in-law, the renowned general Meinhard, 3rd Duc de Schomberg, 1st Duke of Leinster.\n\nThe children of Luise and the Elector Palatine Charles I Louis were:\n\nInitially Luise and the Elector continued to live under one roof with his first wife, who refused to abandon the palace. But the latter's resistance to the arrangement led to such numerous quarrels that the Elector eventually sent her back to her own family in Hesse. However, Electress Charlotte's two children remained with their father. Although his eldest daughter, Liselotte, got along well with her step-mother and younger half-siblings, the rancor between her parents eventually prompted her father's sister, Sophia, to invite Liselotte to come live with her at the court of her husband, the future Ernest Augustus, Elector of Hanover. Although relations with his second wife would not always remain free of conflict, Charles and Luise had a large progeny together and the Elector proved a doting father to all of his children. Nonetheless, in later years poor relations developed between him and his eldest son, the extremely devout Electoral Prince Charles, which apparently prevented him from entertaining the warm feelings for the Raugravine's children that his sister Liselotte felt to such an extent that she sustained an extensive, now published, correspondence with several of her half-sisters for the remainder of her life at the court of Versailles.\n\nDuring her 14th pregnancy the Raugravine Luise died in the castle of Friedrichsburg in Mannheim on 28 March 1677. Her widower married a third time in December 1679, again morganatically, to Elisabeth Hollander von Bernau (1659-8 March 1702), by whom he had a posthumous son, Charles Louis, in April 1681 who, however, died young.\nIn 1733 the still unmarried Louise died, whereupon one of the Raugravine's English granddaughters, Lady Maria von Schomberg (1692-1762), who had married a cousin, Count Christopher von Degenfeld-Schonberg (1689-1762), inherited Stebbach. The estate remained henceforth among the properties of the Degenfeld-Schonberg counts, even after the town's merger with Gemmingen in 1974.\n"}
{"id": "2284750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284750", "title": "Paul Burnett", "text": "Paul Burnett\n\nPaul Burnett (born 26 November 1943) is an English radio disc jockey.\n\nBurnett began his radio career while in the Royal Air Force in the Persian Gulf in 1964. In 1966 he joined offshore radio station, Radio 270, broadcasting off Scarborough, North Yorkshire. After the banning of the offshore stations he moved in 1967 to Manx Radio on the Isle of Man, but he soon joined Radio Luxembourg, where he hosted the chart show. Here Burnett discovered many recordings, previously thought lost, of propaganda broadcasts by William Joyce (\"Lord Haw Haw\") to Britain, made from the Luxembourg stations during the Nazi occupation. On Luxembourg, he presented the Saturday Top 20 show from 1967 to 1974.\n\nOn 24 March 1974 Burnett joined BBC Radio 1 hosting a Sunday morning show \"All There Is To Hear\" (a radio one airplay chart show) and sitting in on the station's national Top 20 show. The first record he ever played on the station was Seven Seas Of Rhye by the group Queen. In 1976, an on-air parody of the U.S. hit single \"Convoy\", became \"Convoy GB\" (by Laurie Lingo & The Dipsticks), which led to a release of the song as a single along with fellow DJ Dave Lee Travis. The song reached #4 in the UK Singles Chart, and Burnett appeared dressed as a chicken on \"Top Of The Pops\".\n\nFrom 5 July 1976 he hosted the weekday lunchtime show after Johnnie Walker left the station and moved to California. Here he had the responsibility of revealing the new singles chart every Tuesday lunchtime. His popular show included several features such as Pub of the Day, Fun at One and Is, Was, Should Have. Burnett became a regular presenter of \"Top of the Pops\", and presented the Radio 1 Roadshow during the summer. In 1981 he moved from lunchtimes to later in the afternoons, but his daily show ended in 1982 to allow Steve Wright's show to be extended. During 1982-84, Burnett was heard on BBC Radio 2 as a stand-in host for the likes of David Hamilton and Terry Wogan and occasionally presenting the Early Show.\n\nBetween 1985 and 1987, he moved to Pennine Radio (now The Pulse of West Yorkshire) in Bradford, Southern Sound (now Heart Sussex) in Sussex, and Capital Radio, where he deputised for Alan Freeman on \"Pick of the Pops Take Two\" in February 1988. In October 1985, billed as the 'Pee Bee Squad' he reached #52 in the United Kingdom chart with \"Rugged and Mean, Butch and On Screen\".\n\nIn 1988 Capital split its frequencies and he joined Capital Gold where he presented a daytime Vintage Chart programme (MondayFriday at 1pm), playing charts from 1956 to 1972. He also did a Sunday afternoon show on Capital Gold (2-5pm). This featured an hour of listeners' requests. He featured a Vintage Top 30 in the final couple of hours, playing complete top 30s again from 1956 to 1972. He left Capital Gold around 1994, and turned up on Classic Gold firstly in 1996 in an early evening show, when GWR swallowed up the Chiltern Stations. The Classic Gold platform was then broadcast on the old Chiltern Network's Supergold stations, as a replacement. This show disappeared a couple of years later.\n\nBurnett replaced Jimmy Savile as the long-time host of \"The Vintage Chart Show\" on the BBC World Service (19891999).\n\nHe returned to Classic Gold around 2000, where he presented at lunchtimes and early afternoons. He left the station when it merged with Capital Gold to form the new Gold network in August 2007. In 2003, he was regular guest presenter on a Networked show on a few stations The UK Top 20 Rewind along with Shaun Tilley. During that run, he had to have a gallstone operation, and was off for a period. In the last week of August 2007, Burnett was heard on Big L International 1395MW Sky0190 as a replacement for afternoon DJ Steve Garlick, who was on holiday. He was due to present a regular weekend show on BigL, but this never happened.\n\nOn 9 November 2007 Burnett broadcast with Dave Lee Travis on KCFM from Hull, and on 16 November 2007 he did the show as their 'Live Legend' of radio. For the following four weeks he had a three-hour weekly spot on the station - 'Burnett Live' - which broadcast live late on Friday evenings. Blackburn replaced Burnett in this slot in January 2008. However, Burnett continues to regularly broadcast on the station. He did a late evening show there, in the early Summer of 2008. Stood in, for Shaun Tilley in October 2008, and also did the 47pm slot there on Christmas Eve 2008.\n\nBurnett could be heard presenting weekdays between 5 and 7 (9 February–September 2009) on internet radio station Wight FM (this was voicetracked). He could be heard on KCFM (Hull) on Sunday afternoons between 12 and 3 between Summer 2009-Summer 2010. On Saturday 16 October 2010, he stood in for Dave Cash on BBC Radio Kent, Sussex, Surrey, Solent, Oxford and Berkshire presenting a classic chart show featuring top 40 sounds from 1971 and 1981. He also did a Christmas Eve show on Time106.6 in 2010, and another on Monday 27 December at 10am. He can now be heard from time to time on The Vintage Top 40 Show on various BBC Local Stations on Sundays at 5pm.\n"}
{"id": "2284762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284762", "title": "Ti' Punch", "text": "Ti' Punch\n\nTi' Punch (; ) literally meaning \"small punch,\" is a rum-based mixed drink that is especially popular in Martinique, Guadeloupe, Haiti, French Guiana and other French-speaking Caribbean islands. It is very similar to the daiquiri, which is usually identified with Cuba, and the caipirinha, identified with Brazil.\n\nThe drink is traditionally made with white rhum agricole, lime, and cane syrup. While aged \nrhum agricole can be used in place of white rhum agricole, other fruit flavors may be added on top of the lime, and sugar may be substituted for cane syrup, a Ti' Punch can \"only\" be made with rhum agricole.\n\nIt is usually served as an \"apéritif\" before starting a meal, both as a matter of tradition and because the drink itself is strongly alcoholic. A popular tradition is that of \"\" (roughly, each prepares his own death), where instead of serving the mixed drink, the bartender or host will simply place out the ingredients, and everyone will prepare the drink according to his or her own taste. Opinions differ as to whether it should be served with or without ice, but most agree that the \"real\" ti'punch should be served without ice. However, adding a small amount of ice allows the flavours of the ingredients to blossom.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284768", "title": "Patroon", "text": "Patroon\n\nIn the United States, a patroon (; from Dutch \"patroon\") was a landholder with manorial rights to large tracts of land in the 17th century Dutch colony of New Netherland on the east coast of North America. Through the Charter of Freedoms and Exemptions of 1629, the Dutch West India Company first started to grant this title and land to some of its invested members. These inducements to foster colonization and settlement (also known as the \"Rights and Exemptions\") are the basis for the patroon system. In 1775, at the outbreak of the American Revolution, primogeniture and feudal tenure were abolished and thus patroons and manors evolved into simply large estates subject to division and leases. \n\nThe deeded tracts were called patroonships and could span 16 miles in length on one side of a major river, or 8 miles if spanning both sides. In 1640, the charter was revised to cut new plot sizes in half, and to allow any Dutch American in good standing to purchase an estate. The title of patroon came with powerful rights and privileges. A patroon could create civil and criminal courts, appoint local officials and hold land in perpetuity. In return, he was required by the Dutch West India Company to – sources vary – establish a settlement of at least 50 families within four years on the land, or \"ship fifty colonists to it within four year\". As tenants working for the patroon, these first settlers were relieved of the duty of public taxes for ten years, but were required to pay rent to the patroon. A patroonship sometimes had its own village and other infrastructure, including churches.\n\nAfter the English takeover of New Netherland in 1664, the system continued with the granting of large tracts known as manors, and sometimes referred to as patroonships.\n\nThe largest and most successful patroonship in New Netherland was the Manor of Rensselaerswijck, established by Kiliaen van Rensselaer. Rensselaerswijck covered almost all of present-day Albany and Rensselaer counties and parts of present-day Columbia and Greene counties in New York State.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe word patroonship was used until the year 1775, when the English redefined the lands as estates and took away the jurisdictional privilege. Ethnic Dutch, who were still a substantial part of the population, resented the change and moved mostly toward the cause of the Independence movement. After the war, the newly recognized New York State government refused to overturn the law.\n\nRensselaerswijck was dismantled in the early 19th century after its last sole proprietor, Stephen Van Rensselaer III, died. Two of his sons split the property and, after tenant farmers gained the right to refuse to pay rent, the sons sold off much of the property. The land was organized as different counties and towns in New York's Capital District.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284772", "title": "List of people from the Louisville metropolitan area", "text": "List of people from the Louisville metropolitan area\n\nThis is a list of people from the Louisville metropolitan area in the U.S. state of Kentucky. Included are notable people who were either born or raised there, or have maintained residency for a significant period.\n\n"}
{"id": "2284781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284781", "title": "Philippine sailfin lizard", "text": "Philippine sailfin lizard\n\nThe Philippine sailfin lizard, crested lizard, sail-fin lizard, sailfin water lizard, soa-soa water lizard (Hydrosaurus pustulatus) or its native name \"ibid\" is an oviparous lizard living only in the Philippines.\n\nLocal name is \"bayagbag\". \n\nThe Philippine sailfin lizard is an excellent swimmer and has flattened toes that enable it to run across water, similar to the basilisks. It is omnivorous, feeding on fruit, leaves, flowers, insects, and small animals . Males have a larger crest on their back than the females. The males also show a violet color as they grow older. Females are less colorful. The adults may reach up to a metre in length.\n\nThe Philippine sailfin lizard lives in tropical wooded habitats near water, like rivers, riverbanks, rice-fields and mangrove. Due to confusion with \"H. amboinensis\", the exact distribution in the Philippines has been labelled with some uncertainty. However, a genetic study that sampled individuals throughout the Philippine archipelago (from Mindanao in south to Luzon in north) found that all were \"H. pustulatus\", which is divided into six clades.\n\nPhilippine sailfin lizards have now been classified as Vulnerable by the IUCN. Their main threats are habitat loss, being hunted for food, and collection for the pet trade.\n\nPhilippine sailfin lizards were commonly available in the United States during the 1990s, but today they are now rare and expensive in the United States (costing about $650 for a captive bred juvenile). Breeding in captivity has only been done in a few cases.\n\nBut because it is common in many parts of the Philippines, the pet trade in many regions still continues and some are even unrecognized by the government.\n"}
{"id": "2284782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284782", "title": "Lane County Fair", "text": "Lane County Fair\n\nThe Lane County Fair is an annual fair held in Eugene, Oregon mid-summer featuring food, music, and other entertainment. It is held at the Lane County Fairgrounds.\n\nReviews are mixed, even a single review:\n\nIn 1973, the fair was considered best in state for Oregon county fairs of more than 100,000 people in attendance.\n\nThe Eugene Saturday Market's Holiday Market is held annually at the Lane County Fairgrounds.\n"}
{"id": "2284786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284786", "title": "John Cornwell (writer)", "text": "John Cornwell (writer)\n\nJohn Cornwell (born 1940) is a British journalist, author, and academic. Since 1990 he has directed the Science and Human Dimension Project at Jesus College, Cambridge, where he is also, since 2009, Founder and Director of the Rustat Conferences. He is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature and was awarded an Honorary Doctorate of Letters (University of Leicester) in 2011. He was nominated for the PEN/Ackerley Prize for best UK memoir 2007 (\"Seminary Boy\") and shortlisted Specialist Journalist of the Year (science, medicine in \"Sunday Times Magazine\"), British Press Awards 2006. He won the Scientific and Medical Network Book of the Year Award for \"Hitler's Scientists\", 2005; and received the Independent Television Authority-Tablet Award for contributions to religious journalism (1994). In 1982 he won the Gold Dagger Award Non-Fiction (1982) for \"Earth to Earth\". He is best known for his investigative journalism; memoir; and his work in public understanding of science. In addition to his books on the relationship between science, ethics and the humanities, he has written widely on the Catholic Church and the modern papacy.\n\nJohn Cornwell was born in East Ham, London, the son of Sidney Arthur Cornwell and Kathleen Egan Cornwell. Raised as a Roman Catholic, Cornwell entered the junior seminary, Cotton College, in 1953 intending to become a priest. He later wrote a memoir of his five years at Cotton. He continued to the senior seminary, Oscott College, Sutton Coldfield, in 1958.\n\nCornwell studied English Language and Literature at St Benet's Hall, Oxford and was tutored by Jonathan Wordsworth at Exeter College. He graduated in 1964, and went on to Christ's College, Cambridge as a graduate student.\n\nAfter Cambridge, Cornwell taught in East London schools, before becoming a teaching fellow in English and philosophy at McMaster University, Ontario. From 1970 to 1976 he worked as a freelance journalist, mainly for The Guardian and \"The Observer\" Magazine, with periods in Italy and Latin America as a Foreign Correspondent. In 1973 he reported from Buenos Aires, and in 1975 from Santiago, Chile, and Buenos Aires. From 1976 to 1988 he was on the staff at \"The Observer\", serving on the Foreign desk and later as Editor and Manager of \"The Observer\" Foreign News Service, which he took from hard copy to high speed wire delivery worldwide. In 1982 he was appointed New Media Publisher, responsible for developing seven parallel media businesses, including creation of UK's first interactive electronic newspaper with Prestel, joint venture book publishing, and educational resources. He was \"The Observer\"’s delegate at the International Press Institute (1978-1988); investigator and rapporteur on the 20th Century Fund Task Force convened in New York and Oxford in 1978-79 on the tensions between Western free-enterprise media and government media organisations: findings and analysis published in his Free and Balanced Flow (1979).\n\nHis first two books were novels: \"The Spoiled Priest\", and \"Seven Other Demons\". Two decades later he published a third novel, \"Strange Gods\". In 1973 he published a critical biography of Samuel Taylor Coleridge, \"Coleridge, Poet and Revolutionary, 1772–1804\".\n\nIn 1982 he published \"Earth to Earth\", the story of a farming family tragedy at Winkleigh in Devon for which he won the non-fiction Gold Dagger Award.\n\nHis 1989 book \"A Thief in the Night\" investigated the 1978 death of Pope John Paul I, which was surrounded by conspiracy theories. Though Cornwell sharply criticised Vatican prelates, he concluded that the Pope was not murdered but died of a pulmonary embolism, possibly brought on by overwork and neglect.\n\nIn 1999, Cornwell published \"Hitler's Pope\", in which he accuses Pope Pius XII of assisting in the legitimisation of the Nazi regime in Germany through the pursuit of a Reichskonkordat in 1933 and of remaining silent, like the Allies, after information about the Holocaust was released to the public in late 1942 and early 1943. Owen Chadwick praised the book's scholarly approach and the abundance of new information Cornwell had managed to unearth.\n\nIn 2004, Cornwell stated that Pius XII \"had so little scope of action that it is impossible to judge the motives for his silence during the war, while Rome was under the heel of Mussolini and later occupied by Germany ... But even if his prevarications and silences were performed with the best of intentions, he had an obligation in the postwar period to explain those actions\". He similarly stated in 2008 that Pius XII's \"scope for action was severely limited\", but that \"[n]evertheless, due to his ineffectual and diplomatic language in respect of the Nazis and the Jews, I still believe that it was incumbent on him to explain his failure to speak out after the war. This he never did.\"\n\nIn a variety of broadcasts and subsequent print commentary Cornwell has continued to insist that Pacelli's principal failure (as Cardinal Secretary of State), through the Reichsconcordat (1933), was to act as a fellow traveller, taking benefits from Hitler on behalf of Pius XI and the Catholic Church while patently distancing himself from Nazi ideology - the effect of which was to scandalise youth, demoralise opposition, and give Hitler credit in the eyes of the world.\n\nIn 2003, Cornwell followed up \"Hitler's Pope\" with \"Hitler's Scientists\".\n\nIn 2004, Cornwell also published \"A Pontiff in Winter\", a work critical of Pope John Paul II. Reviews of the book were often fiercely divided. James Carroll in \"The Washington Post\" said the book \"dissects the record of John Paul II's pontificate with an informed, dispassionate and fully convincing authority\". Writing in \"the Guardian\", Stephen Bates said: \"John Cornwell has produced a devastating report. Catholics should read it, if not to change their views – though perhaps it should – then at least to inform them\".\n\nPublished in 2010 by Continuum, this biography of Cardinal John Henry Newman coincided with renewed interest in the 19th century theologian and religious leader as a result of his beatification during the Papal visit by Pope Benedict XVI to England and Scotland. Philosopher Anthony Kenny in \"The Times Literary Supplement\" wrote that \"\"Newman's Unquiet Grave\" is a substantial achievement ... John Cornwell has taken on the task of writing a biography of Newman to make his life intelligible to the largely secular public which in a few weeks will watch on television the ceremony of his beatification. He has followed a \"via media\" between the hagiography of Meriol Trevor and the mockery of Lytton Strachey, and he has produced a Life which is readable, sympathetic and judicious ... Altogether, he has succeeded in building up a vivid picture of Newman's personality.\"\n\nAs Research Fellow (elected 1990, Fellow Commoner 1996) and Director of the Science and Human Dimension Project at Jesus College, Cambridge, Cornwell has brought together many scientists, philosophers, ethicists, authors and journalists to debate and discuss a range of topics. His books in the field of public understanding of science include \"Nature's Imagination\", \"Consciousness and Human Identity\", and \"Explanations\", all published by Oxford University Press. His journalism in this field has been published in a variety of outlets including \"Financial Times\", \"Sunday Times Magazine\", \"The Observer\", \"New Statesman\", \"New Scientist\", \"Nature\", \"Prospect\", \"Times Literary Supplement\", \"The Tablet\", \"Brain\", \"New Scientist\", \"The Guardian\", and \"The Times\". Broadcast contributions to many BBC programmes, especially on culture, science and religion, including \"Hard Talk\", \"Choice\", \"Start the Week,\" \"The Moral Maze\" (e.g. witness on genetic determinism debate), \"Today\" (e.g. debate with Richard Dawkins); \"Beyond Belief\" (on John Henry Newman's Idea of a University), \"Thought for the Day\" (on Darwin's birthday), \"Sunday\", and various programmes in the BBC's World Service.\n\nIn 2009, he was appointed founding director of the Rustat Conferences, also based at Jesus College, Cambridge. This project brings together academics with those from politics, business, the media and education to discuss the vital issues of the day in a roundtable format. The first two meetings in 2009 discussed the global Economic Crisis, and the Future of Democracy. The third meeting addressed Infrastructure and the Future of Society – infrastructure for energy security, cities of the future, and water.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284788", "title": "Curse of Tippecanoe", "text": "Curse of Tippecanoe\n\nThe Curse of Tippecanoe (also known as Tecumseh's Curse or the 20 Year Presidential Curse) is the alleged pattern of deaths in office of presidents of the United States elected in years that are evenly divisible by 20, from William Henry Harrison (elected in 1840) through John F. Kennedy (elected in 1960). Ronald Reagan was elected in 1980 and was wounded by gunshot, but he survived. George W. Bush (2000) survived his terms in office, despite an assassination attempt.\n\nWilliam Henry Harrison was elected president in 1840, but he died in 1841, just a month after being sworn in. \"Ripley's Believe It or Not!\" claimed to note a pattern in 1931 and again in 1948, claiming that a president elected in a year ending in zero would die in office. They termed it the \"Curse of Tippecanoe\". The name came from the Battle of Tippecanoe in 1811, when Harrison negotiated the 1809 Treaty of Fort Wayne, in which the Native Americans ceded large tracts of land to the government. The treaty further angered Shawnee leader Tecumseh and it brought government soldiers and Indians to the brink of war in a period known as Tecumseh's War. Tecumseh and his brother organized a group of Indian tribes to resist the westward expansion of the United States.\n\nIn 1811, Tecumseh's forces attacked Harrison's army in the Battle of Tippecanoe, earning Harrison fame and the nickname \"Old Tippecanoe\". In an account of the aftermath of the battle, Tecumseh's brother Tenskwatawa supposedly set a curse against Harrison. This is the basis of the curse legend, even though it was Richard Mentor Johnson who was said to be the man who killed Tecumseh.\n\n\"Strange as it Seems\" by John Hix ran a cartoon prior to Election Day 1940 titled \"Curse over the White House!\" and claiming that \"In the last 100 years, Every U.S. President Elected at 20-Year Intervals Has Died In Office!\" In February 1960, the journalist Ed Koterba noted that \"The next President of the United States will face an eerie curse that for more than a century has hung over every chief executive elected in a year ending with zero.\" The mentions by Ripley, Hix, and Koterba, however, did not specifically refer to the tale of Tenskwatawa as the source of the curse. Instead, the first written account referring to the source of the curse, described as the Curse of the Prophet, occurred in an article by Lloyd Shearer in 1980 in Parade magazine.\n\nRunning for re-election in 1980, President Jimmy Carter was asked about the curse at a campaign stop in Dayton, Ohio on October 2 of that year while taking questions from the crowd. A high school student asked Carter if he was concerned about \"predictions that every 20 years or election years ending in zero, the President dies in office.\" Carter replied, \"I've seen those predictions. ... I'm not afraid. If I knew it was going to happen, I would go ahead and be President and do the best I could till the last day I could.\"\n\nSince 1963, no president has died in office, even when elected on twenty-year marks.\n\nThe election of Ronald Reagan in 1980 was not followed by his death in office, despite him being seriously wounded in an assassination attempt within months of his 1981 inauguration. Days after Reagan survived the shooting, columnist Jack Anderson wrote \"Reagan and the Eerie Zero Factor\" and noted that the 40th president had either disproved the superstition, or had nine lives. Reagan, the oldest man to be elected president at that time, also survived treatment for colon cancer while in office. First Lady Nancy Reagan was reported to have hired psychics and astrologers to try to protect her husband from the effects of the curse. However, the Reagans' son, Ron Reagan, revealed in his memoir that President Reagan began showing symptoms of Alzheimer's as early as three years into his first term as president. Reagan left office on January 20, 1989, and ultimately died of pneumonia complicated by Alzheimer's disease on June 5, 2004, at the age of 93.\n\nThe president elected in 2000, George W. Bush, also survived two terms in office, which included a 2005 assassination attempt by Vladimir Arutyunian in which a live grenade was thrown at Bush and Georgian president Mikhail Saakashvili, but failed to explode. He completed his final term in office on January 20, 2009.\n\nIn addition to such exceptions, the curse also demonstrates a number of logical fallacies, including confusing correlation with causation, cherry picking, moving the goalposts, and the lottery fallacy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284808", "title": "The Saga of Darren Shan", "text": "The Saga of Darren Shan\n\nThe Saga of Darren Shan (known as Cirque Du Freak: The Saga of Darren Shan in the United States) is a young adult 12-part book series written by Darren Shan (pen name of Darren O'Shaughnessy) about the struggle of a boy who has become involved in the world of vampires. As of October 2008, the book has been published in 33 countries around the world, in 30 different languages. A based on the first three books in the series was released in theatres on October 23, 2009. Blackstone Audio has also released CD recordings of all 12 books in the series, read by Ralph Lister.\n\nDarren O'Shaughnessy wrote and published the first book of the series, \"Cirque du Freak\", under the pen name Darren Shan as a side project between two adult books. \"Cirque du Freak\" received good reviews and Warner Bros. bought the movie rights in a seven-figure deal prior to publication, though the film was never made and the film rights returned to Shan after three years. Now, Universal Pictures own the film rights and a feature film was released in theatres on October 23, 2009.\n\n\"The Saga of Darren Shan\" follows the story of Darren Shan, a normal human boy who is coerced by the vampire Larten Crepsley into becoming his assistant and a half-vampire.\n\n\nThe vampires in \"The Darren Shan Saga\" are different from vampires found in popular culture. They are alive, meaning that they can be killed by a well-placed bullet, mutilation, decapitation or piercing of the heart (though they will wake up within a day or less if their neck is broken). Vampires do not have fangs and they do not drink blood from the neck. Rather, they drink blood from the victim by cutting a vein with their hard, and sharp nails; drinking small amounts of blood, and then healing it with their saliva. Their nails can also be used to scale walls in a spider-like manner. Draining all of a human's blood would have a vampire absorb a part of the spirit of the victim, allowing the vampire to see into their memories (Darren does this in \"The Vampire's Assistant\", to save the spirit of his dying friend). Vampires have a partial immunity to Sunlight; which means they can stay in pure daylight for 4-5 hours before disintegrating or burning up. However, despite this, Vampires can be active during the day (provided they stay in the shade). By contrast, Half-Vampires have complete immunity to Sunlight by default. Vampires are not bothered by garlic, silver, or holy objects. Fresh human blood is the most nutritious for vampires, but they can feed on preserved human blood or the blood of certain animals if necessary. Some animals' blood, however, is toxic to vampires. Vampires cannot reproduce, due to all their fluids being frozen. Vampires are created via blood-to-blood contact with humans, traditionally through the fingertips, but if any creature, human or animal, were to orally ingest vampire blood, it would be driven into a murderous frenzy and then die (similar to rabies). Full Vampires age one year in appearance for every ten human years that pass (1/10), where as half-vampires age one year in appearance for every five human years that pass (1/5). This comes into play in the series when Darren meets an old girlfriend he had; now they are adults but Darren still looks about the same as he did when they first met. The oldest vampire in the series is Paris Skyle, who was \"Blooded\" at age two and lived for over eight hundred years. Vampires cast reflections and shadows but cannot be photographed due to a particular vibration of their atoms. Also, as in folklore, vampires sleep in coffins.\n\nVampires are considerably stronger, tougher, and fitter than humans; able to outperform humans in any physical activity and run at speeds faster than the human eye can follow, a process called \"Flitting\". Flitting causes a static charge to build up in a vampire's body, which Mr. Crepsley learned to use to force open locks. A vampire's senses are all similar to that of predators, allowing them to see in darkness, hear heartbeats, and track scents. Their bones and teeth are stronger than those of humans, allowing them to endure incredible amounts of physical trauma, are resistant to most chemicals and diseases, and are able to heal and recover much quicker than humans. A vampire's healing factor is not as effective as in most fiction, though they are more resistant to fatal injury compared to humans and other living creatures, and, unlike the beautiful vampires of Anne Rice, most of Shan's vampires are very average, normal and plain in appearance. More abilities include breathing an invisible gas that renders a human unconscious, telepathically communicating with other vampires and humans (three vampires could also mentally command spiders), and locating vampires and humans whose thought patterns they have learned to recognize. The blood of snakes, rats, and cats are poisonous to them.\n\nVampire society is ruled by honor, personal pride, and tradition. They have a strict hierarchy with higher ranking vampires having absolute rule over lower ranking ones, though they exercise their powers in moderation and are respectful of those beneath them. There are far fewer female vampires than male ones. Vampire matings last only ten or fifteen years with the couple then choosing to re-mate or go their separate ways. Vampires are forbidden to use projectile weapons like guns, bows, and crossbows as they view these as dishonourable, preferring hand-to-hand fighting with swords, axes, etc., or throwing weapons such as a shuriken. Vampires live old fashioned lives: no vampire aside from Darren Shan is shown making references to pop culture, or using computers. Vampires see humans as a chaotic and slightly inferior race, but most value human lives. Some vampires form friendships with humans and many fall in love with them. Vampire Gavner Purl boasts a pair of pink underpants embroidered with elephants, a present from a former human girlfriend.\n\nDarren Shan's vampires do not follow the religions they did as humans, but worship an unidentified pantheon. They believe that the souls of good vampires are reborn as wolves in the eternal nights of a distant world called Paradise, while evil vampire souls remain bound to the Earth for eternity. They do have gods, but there are a great number of them and they are referred to as the Vampire Gods. Vampires believe they are descended from wolves, just as humans have evolved from primates. Wolves are held as the cousins of vampires. Wolves like vampires, especially since they have a scent that means no harm to them.\n\nIn \"The Saga of Darren Shan\" the Vampaneze are sworn rivals to the vampires, believing that there is honour in killing their victims and claiming their souls. They were originally vampires who broke away from the clan (600 years before the third book) and claimed themselves a new race (Vampaneze) because of the different customs they held. A violent war followed, which eventually ended in a truce when human interference threatened the survival of both races, and both groups mutually agreed to stay out of each other's affairs. This extends even to those who have become insane such as Murlough - killing him risked bringing the wrath of the entire race down on Darren and Mr Crepsley's heads, and the vampires would be honour-bound not to intervene. The Vampaneze are considered antagonists, though they only appear that way due to the misleading image of Murlough, the Vampaneze Lord and the War of the Scars. Mr Crepsley himself noted that vampaneze had some positive traditions such as their refusal to lie and their sense of honour. The Vampaneze have purple skin and red hair, eyes, lips, and fingernails though it takes a couple of decades for this colouring to set in. This is a side effect due to drinking a lot of blood: though killing humans when draining their blood was originally a choice based on their beliefs, in the modern day their blood compels Vampaneze to kill when they drink. Many Vampaneze do not want to fight the vampires, and though Gannen Harst has sworn to protect the Lord of Vamapaneze, Steve Leonard, in the final book Harst does not stop Steve from putting himself in danger, as if he merely wants the war between Vampires and Vampaneze settled one way or the other.\n\nThe Vampaneze are first mentioned in \"Tunnels of Blood\" and become a main part of the plot throughout the rest of the series. Examples of Vampaneze include Murlough and Gannen Harst.\n\nThe Death's Touch sign is a hand position used in \"The Saga of Darren Shan\" series. It is used by vampires throughout Vampire Mountain to show their appreciation towards a dead vampire, or one that is likely to die. The sign involves placing one's middle finger on the right hand in the middle of the forehead, with the ring finger on the left eyelid, the index finger on the right eyelid, and the pinky and thumb outstretched. The sign itself translates to the saying, \"Even in death, may you be triumphant\". The sign first appears in the fifth book, \"Trials of Death\", when Darren must take the Trials of Initiation. The vampires in the mountain direct the sign towards him to wish him good luck.\n\nThe series \"The Saga of Darren Shan\" is rated 4.4/5 by Goodreads and 9/10 by Fantasy Book Review.\n\nA manga series, \"Cirque Du Freak\", based on \"The Saga of Darren Shan\", was published in the Shogakukan anthology Weekly Shōnen Sunday by Takahiro Arai in a weekly serialization. The volumes were being published in the United Kingdom and United States by Harper Collins and Yen Press, respectively.\n\nDarren Shan has released numerous short stories on his website, all of which tie into the saga.\n\n\nThe Sam Grest stories have been included in the \"Midnight Feast\" collection.\n\n"}
{"id": "2284815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284815", "title": "Vic Rattlehead", "text": "Vic Rattlehead\n\nVic Rattlehead is the illustrated mascot of the American thrash metal band Megadeth. Vic is a skeletal figure wearing a suit who embodies the phrase \"See no evil, hear no evil, speak no evil\" as well as a symbol of censorship. His eyes are covered by a riveted-on visor, his mouth is clamped shut, and his ears are closed with metal caps.\n\nThe mythic creation of Vic Rattlehead is addressed in the song \"The Skull Beneath the Skin\" from the album \"Killing Is My Business... and Business Is Good!\"\n\nDave Mustaine sketched the original drawing of Vic for the album's front cover. However, Combat Records lost the artwork and improvised a completely different concept. The original artwork was recovered and placed on the reissue of \"Killing Is My Business... and Business Is Good!\". The name of Vic stands for \"victim\" and Rattlehead comes from what Mustaine's mother used to say to him when he was headbanging: \"Don't do that or you'll rattle something up in there!\" This then led to the expression \"to rattle one's head\" meaning head-bang. According to Mustaine, the mascot represents his feelings about religious repression and freedom of expression.\n\nVic was on the cover art of the band's first four albums (1985–1990): \"Killing Is My Business... And Business Is Good!\", \"Peace Sells... But Who's Buying?\", \"So Far, So Good... So What!\", and \"Rust in Peace\".\n\nVic did not appear on the front cover of any albums or compilations from 1991 to 2000. However, when Megadeth tried to bring back a more \"classic\" vibe to their material, he returned for the 2001 album \"The World Needs a Hero\", the 2004 album \"The System Has Failed\", as well as the 2007 studio album \"United Abominations\" in a human form. He is identified by his visor, metal caps on his ears, and clamps on his mouth. Only Vic's face is shown in the mushroom cloud on the 2005 compilation \"\". Vic was once again absent from the cover of \"Endgame\", instead found in the album's booklet much like the inside cover of \"Youthanasia\" and \"Countdown To Extinction\". His portrait image can also be found by joining the spine labels of the 7 albums Mustaine re-released in 2004. Vic was mentioned in the band's 2010 video \"The Right to Go Insane\" and featured on the cover art for the \"Sudden Death\" single. On the cover of \"Th1rt3en\" he is shown with his back turned. Vic can be seen very faintly on the \"Super Collider\" album artwork as a reflection in the center of the particle collider; it is revealed inside the cover and on the back that Vic is the Super Collider. On \"Dystopia\", a robot version of Vic Rattlehead is seen.\n\nIn 1993, Megadeth appeared as \"Vic and the Rattleheads\" at Rock City club Nottingham.\n\nVic has made small appearances in the music videos for \"Anarchy in the U.K.\", \"Wake Up Dead\", \"Holy Wars... The Punishment Due\", and \"Hangar 18\".\n\nOn January 29, 2006, an official contest was announced on DeviantArt to redesign the Megadeth icon. The contest stated:\n\nAfter two decades of rocking, the heavy metal band Megadeth’s mascot Vic Rattlehead needs a facelift and the band has commissioned DeviantArt to redesign him!! Not only do you get the chance to redesign a mascot whose image has appeared on several Megadeth albums as well as a myriad of band merchandise, you can also win the biggest prizes we've ever offered for a DeviantArt contest!\n\nThe prizes were three different ESP electric guitars. The contest ended on February 14, 2006, and was judged by Mustaine, with the results posted on DeviantArt on March 15, 2006.\n\nThe cover art for Megadeth's eleventh album, \"United Abominations\", has revealed a redesigned Vic, using artwork from John Lorenzi, one of the DeviantArt contest entries, albeit not a winning entry. Vic now appears as an elderly man rather than a skeletal figure. He is, however, depicted with traits of the Four Horsemen mentioned in the album and shown inside the CD case—he is accompanied by an angel wearing white with blood-stained wings (aka the \"Angel of Deth\", and an allusion to the Pestilence Horseman), has long black hair and a black cloak resembling the black horse of Famine, is wielding various firearms like the sword used by the War Horseman, and has pale, veinous-looking skin like that of Death, and is, of course, shown dealing death on a large scale. A reflection of the classic Vic can also be found on the far-right building on the front cover.\n\nThe artists for the various incarnations of Vic include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284839", "title": "Secondary mortgage market", "text": "Secondary mortgage market\n\nThe secondary mortgage market is the market for the sale of securities or bonds collateralized by the value of mortgage loans. A mortgage lender, commercial banks, or specialized firm will group together many loans (from the \"primary mortgage market\") and sell grouped loans known as collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs) or mortgage-backed securities (MBS) to investors such as pension funds, insurance companies and hedge funds. Mortgage-backed securities were often combined into collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), which may include other types of debt obligations such as corporate loans.\n\nThe secondary mortgage market was intended to provide a new source of capital for the market when the traditional source in one market—such as a Savings and loan association (S&L) or \"thrift\" in the United States—was unable to. It also was hoped to be more efficient than the old localized market for funds which might have a shortage or surplus depending on the location. In theory, the risk of default on individual loans was greatly reduced by this aggregation process, such that even high-risk individual loans could be treated as part of an AAA-risk (safest possible) investment.\n\nOn the other hand, mortgage securitization undid \"the connection between borrowers and lenders\", such that mortgage originators no longer had a direct incentive to make sure the borrower could pay the loan. While historically in the US, fewer than 2% of people lost their homes to foreclosure; rates were far higher during the Subprime mortgage crisis. Delinquencies, defaults, and decreased real estate values could make CDOs difficult to evaluate. This happened to BNP Paribas in August, 2007, causing the central banks to intervene with liquidity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284842", "title": "Ronald Talney", "text": "Ronald Talney\n\nRonald Talney (born in New Westminster, British Columbia, Canada) is a poet, who has lived most of his life in Oregon. He has published poems in numerous literary magazines and anthologies, and has published five books of poems including \"The Anxious Ground\", from Press-22 in 1974, and \"The Quietness That Is Our Name\", from Bohematash Press as part of the Pacific House Book Series, and most recently, \"A Secret Weeping of Stones\", New and Selected Poems, from Plain View Press. He has also published a juvenile mystery novel, \"The Ghost of Deadman's Hollow\", from University Editions.\n"}
{"id": "2284844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284844", "title": "Anahid Ajemian", "text": "Anahid Ajemian\n\nAnahid Marguerite Ajemian (January 26, 1924 – June 13, 2016) was an American violinist of Armenian descent. Her career in contemporary music began from her desire to help young composers of her generation get their compositions performed. Additionally, she enjoyed performing the music of established contemporary performers. She included these composers with the traditional repertoire in her performances.\n\nAjemian was born in Manhattan on January 26, 1924. She began her music studies early at the Institute of Musical Art, which later merged with the Juilliard School. After graduating from the Lincoln School, Ajemian continued her education at the Juilliard School, studying violin with Édouard Dethier and chamber music with Hans Letz and Felix Salmon, and played in the Juilliard orchestra under Albert Stoessel and Edgar Shenkman.\n\nIn 1946, while still a student of Édouard Dethier at the Juillard Graduate School of Music, Ajemian won the Walter W. Naumburg Foundation Award. In the same year, she made her debut at Town Hall and received the Distinguished Achievement Medal from Mademoiselle magazine as the Young Woman of the Year in Music. Among the many honors that have followed, the Order of St. James appointed her a Knight of Malta for her lifelong support of contemporary classical music.\n\nWith her pianist sister Maro Ajemian, she performed in Europe, Canada and throughout the United States in a wide repertoire including works which were written for them by such distinguished composers as John Cage, Henry Cowell, Alan Hovhaness, Ernst Krenek, Lou Harrison, Wallingford Riegger, Carlos Surinach, and Ben Weber. Together and separately, the Ajemian sisters recorded extensively for Columbia, RCA Victor, MGM and Composers Records, Inc. They were the first musicians to receive the Laurel Leaf Award of the Composers Alliance for Distinguished Service to American Music.\n\nAjemian and her sister were equally known for their interpretations of the standard classical repertoire. A unique feature of the many television programs they taped for NBC’s \"Recital Hall\" and the National Educational Television Network was their series of programs comprising the complete cycle of all ten Beethoven Sonatas for Violin and Piano. They appeared as soloists under the batons of Dimitri Mitropoulos, Leopold Stokowski and Izler Solomon, and recorded with the latter two.\n\nAlso during the 1940s, Ajemian co-founded the New York City-based organization Friends of Armenian Music Committee, which did much to launch the career of fellow Armenian-American composer Alan Hovhaness, via a series of well-received New York concerts of his music. These concerts were repeated in Boston, San Francisco and Los Angeles. Ajemian and her husband, George Avakian, started Music for Moderns, a Town Hall, in 1957.\n\nIn the mid-sixties, Ajemian and her fellow violinist Matthew Raimondi founded the Composers String Quartet at the suggestion of Gunther Schuller, which quickly earned an international reputation and toured in more than 26 countries, including the Soviet Union, India, the Middle East, Africa, Australia, Japan, Southeast Asia and China. The Composers String Quartet recorded extensively for the Musical Heritage Society, Nonesuch Records, Composers Recordings, Inc. and Columbia Records among many others. The Quartet’s 1970 recording of Elliott Carter’s \"First and Second Quartets\" was honored by a Grammy nomination, received “Stereo Review’s “Best Chamber Music Recording of the Year” Award, and was acclaimed by \"High Fidelity\" as “Best Quartet of the Year” and one of the “Fifty Greatest Albums of the Decade.” \"Time\" magazine called it “an astonishingly brilliant and unique achievement.”\n\nThe Quartet was in residence at Columbia University in New York City and the New England Conservatory of Music in Boston, Massachusetts. For many years, they were the primary performers at the Mt Desert Festival of Chamber Music in Northeast Harbor, Maine.\n\nAjemian was a long-time member of the Columbia University music faculty and served as a judge for several music organizations, including the annual Naumburg Foundation Awards.\n\nShe was married to George Avakian, a record producer and founding officer of the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences. They had three children: Maro, Anahid and Gregory.\n\n"}
{"id": "2284853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284853", "title": "7th SS Volunteer Mountain Division Prinz Eugen", "text": "7th SS Volunteer Mountain Division Prinz Eugen\n\nThe 7th SS Volunteer Mountain Division \"Prinz Eugen\" (7. SS-Freiwilligen Gebirgs-Division \"Prinz Eugen\") was a German mountain infantry division of the Waffen-SS during World War II. It served only in occupied Yugoslavia. The Waffen-SS was the armed wing of the German Nazi Party that served alongside but was never formally part of the Wehrmacht. Formed in 1941 from both Germans and \"Volksdeutsche\" (ethnic German) volunteers and conscripts from the Banat, Independent State of Croatia (NDH), Hungary and Romania, the division fought a counter-insurgency campaign against communist-led Yugoslav Partisan resistance forces in the German-occupied territories of Serbia and Montenegro, and in the NDH. It was given the title \"Prinz Eugen\" after Prince Eugene of Savoy, an outstanding military leader of the Habsburg Empire who liberated the Banat and Belgrade from the Ottoman Empire in the Austro-Turkish War of 1716–18. It was initially named the SS-\"Freiwilligen\"-Division \"Prinz Eugen\" (SS-Volunteer Division \"Prinz Eugen\").\n\nAfter the invasion, occupation and dismantling of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia by the Axis powers on 6 April 1941, the Wehrmacht placed Serbia proper, the northern part of Kosovo (around Kosovska Mitrovica) and the Banat under a military government.\n\nThe division was formed in late 1941 following the Invasion of Yugoslavia, initially from German-speaking Danube Swabian \"Selbstschutz\" in the Banat, which was an autonomous area within the Territory of the Military Commander in Serbia. A key figure in the organisation of the division was the Higher SS and Police Leader in Serbia, \"SS-Obergruppenführer und Generalleutnant der Polizei\" (Police General) August Meyszner.\n\n\"After the initial rush of \"Volksdeutsche\" to join, voluntary enlistments tapered off, and the new formation did not reach division size. Therefore, in August 1941, the SS discarded the voluntary approach, and after a favorable judgement from the SS court in Belgrade, imposed a mandatory military obligation on all \"Volksdeutsche\" in Banat, the first of its kind for non-Reich Germans.\n\nOne of the reasons for the forced conscription of ethnic Germans was the disappointingly low number of volunteers for the division after the initial recruitments (no more than 5000). While the division remained \"volunteer\" in name, few of the conscripted ethnic Germans actively sought entry into the unit. \"SS Reichsführer\" Himmler had announced that the wishes of the \"Volksdeutsche\" were irrelevant, while in connection with the Balkan Germans the SS head of recruitment Gottlob Berger remarked: \"\"kein Mensch [kümmert] [sich ja] darum, was wir unten mit unseren Volksdeutschen tun\"\" (\"no person cares what we do with our ethnic Germans in the South\"). Ethnic Germans in the Balkans were therefore powerless and could not oppose conscription into the SS.\n\nThe unwillingness of ethnic Germans to serve in the unit is illustrated by a mutiny of 173 Croatian Germans of the division\nin 1943 in Bosnia. Apparently the men of mixed ancestry did not speak German and were mistreated by their superiors as a result. Himmler intervened personally in the problem and even ordered any NCO that insulted the mother of the Croatian German troops to be shot on the spot (the insulting of mothers being common in the Balkans). Many of these men preferred service in the Croatian Home Guard for a variety of reasons.\n\nIn 1942, the Pančevo-based unit was declared a Mountain Division. They were issued with a significant amount of non-standard German weapons and used captured equipment such as Czech machine guns like the ZB-53 and French light tanks. They were provided with excellent German-made mountain artillery such as the 10.5 cm Gebirgshaubitze 40 howitzer and 7.5 cm Gebirgsgeschütz 36 mountain gun.\n\nWhen the division was formed, it was assigned to the Balkans as an anti-Partisan mountain division.\n\nIn October 1942, the division led a German-Bulgarian anti-guerrilla offensive by the name of Operation Kopaonik against the Chetniks in the Kopaonik, Goč and Jastrebac mountains of the Territory of the Military Commander in Serbia. The operation was aimed at the destruction of the Rasina Corps of the Yugoslav Army in the Fatherland, commanded by Major Dragutin Keserović, whose headquarters was located in the village of Kriva Reka. Germans and Bulgarians cleared the Chetnik free territory and in the process committed war crimes against the Serbian civilian population. The Chetniks successfully withdrew from the German-Bulgarian ring to territory that was beyond the reach of the occupation forces.\n\nKeserović and his troops had been participating in military operations against the Bulgarians and Germans for the previous year. The Chetniks were a threat to the Germans because they were able to break the German road communications and interfere with the movement of war materiel intended for Rommel's forces on the African front—through the Morava−Vardar valley. Losses were inflicted on Keserovićev's detachments and the local population by the constantly pursuing enemy forces. The Germans, worried about a potential attack on the Trepča mine near Kosovska Mitrovica, from which they pulled significant amounts of lead and zinc, decided in the spring of 1942 to launch an attack involving some 20,000 soldiers.\n\nIn early October 1942 the division was deployed in southwestern Serbia, in Kraljevo, Užice, Ivanjica, Čačak, Raška, Kosovska Mitrovica, and Novi Pazar. Elements of the 9th Bulgarian Infantry Division were also assigned to the attack. The Rasina Corps at that time had about 1,500 fighters under arms.\n\nOn 5 October 1942 Phleps ordered the German and Bulgarian forces to destroy the Chetnik forces. A comprehensive attack was planned: 20,000 well-armed and fully trained German troops would encircle the Serbians from four directions using a precisely defined plan of fire. Because of the perceived importance of this operation and to observe the first military operations of the newly established SS Division, Reichsführer-SS Heinrich Himmler travelled to Kraljevo in the German occupation zone. Himmler was in Kraljevo from 15 to 18 October 1942 and toured the division.\n\nGerman and Bulgarian forces began their attack on the Chetnik territory at dawn on 12 October 1942. As planned, the attack proceeded from four directions. German combat group \"North\" marched to the top of Željin, and a secondary group to the top of Kavalj. Combat group \"South\" conducted a comprehensive movement in the area around Gobelja, located 17 km northwest of Raška. Combat group \"West\" concentrated its forces in the valley 5 km from Banje. Combat group \"East\" took a position west of Brus. Germans and Bulgarians made a ring around the Chetnik territory and forced the peasants into hiding.\n\nGerman combat groups \"North\", \"West\", and \"South\" proceeded along a front through the Chetnik territory in the direction of combat group \"East\", which was assigned the role of forming a wall to stop the Chetniks. However, Keserović had intelligence about the preparations and the movement of large German forces for an attack, and did not consider it useful to meet the German and Bulgarian forces on a wide front. He ordered his units to regroup into smaller squads for easy maneuvering and penetration. His tactic meant the Chetnik Rasina Corps was able to escape from the ring of enemy soldiers. The Germans and Bulgarians committed reprisals against the civilian population and burned several villages. The village of Kriva Reka, the location of Keserović's headquarters, suffered the most: 120 civilians were locked in the village church and burned to death by members of the 7th SS Division. In other villages in Kopaonik 300 civilians were killed; in the villages on Mount Goč 250 civilians were executed. The Germans killed a total of 670 civilians during this operation.\n\nThe division's next action was in the Serbian-Montenegro border in the mountains east of the Ibar River and afterwards it took part in the Fourth anti-Partisan Offensive in the Zagreb-Karlovac area, where together with Italian forces attempted to defeat the Partisans commanded by Josip Broz Tito, the operation failed and most of the Partisans managed to evade the main attack.\n\nIn Operation Weiss I, the Division advanced from Karlovac area against NOVJ units resistance and on January 29 captured informal partisan capital Bihać. In Operation Weiss II it forced its way from western Bosnia to Mostar area in Hercegovina and also deployed units northwest of Sarajevo.\n\nIn May the Division took part in operation against Chetniks. The Operation was successful and Draža Mihailović was forced to retreat to Serbia with his headquarters.\n\nFrom 15 May – 15 June, the division took a part in the Fifth anti-Partisan Offensive (Operation Schwartz) aiming to pin Tito's main force of about 20,000 Partisans against the Zelengora mountain, in southeastern Bosnia. During the battle, the division received a task to move through the Italian zone in order to block the possible advance of Partisans towards the Adriatic sea and Albania, to close the south-east part of the encirclement and then advance north over mountainous terrain to crush the Partisan forces. In 11-day fightings from May 20 division captured Šavnik. For this success major (\"Sturmbannführer\") Dietsche as well as commander Phleps received first two Knight's Crosses for the division.\n\nIn the following days the focal point of the battle shifted westward. After the main group of the Partisans headed by 1st Proletarian Division broke out of the encirclement, two battalions of the division that were moved to cover the left bank of the Sutjeska river and block the Partisan's escape route were surprised by the attack of three battalions of 1st Dalmatian and one from 5th Montenegro Brigade at Tjentište pushing them back. They recovered their positions during a night battle and decimated most Partisan units. In the operation Schwartz the division suffered total losses of 613 men.\n\nIn August 1943, the division became a part of the XV Mountain Corps and was sent to the Dalmatian coast, to disarm the Italian forces in September 1943 after the Italian Government had surrendered to the Allies. In exploiting Italian capitulation, NOVJ succeeded in seizing control of the most part of the Dalmatian coast. In sixteen-days long battle the division, together with 92nd Motorized Regiment, pushed back NOVJ units and on September 29 reoccupied Split. In October, division participated in Operation Landsturm, another anti-Partisan operation in Omiš, Ploče and Biokovo. In battles for Split and Biokovo coastline, division suffered losses of 1582 killed, wounded and missing in action.\n\nThe division was reorganized on 22 October 1943 and was renamed the 7th SS Volunteer Mountain Division \"Prinz Eugen\". In November, the unit was attached to the V SS Mountain Corps and took part in anti-Partisan Operations Kugelblitz and Schneesturm in December 1943.\n\nIn January 1944 the division was involved in more anti-Partisan actions in operation \"Waldrausch\". In May division took part in Seventh anti-Partisan Offensive (\"Operation Rösselsprung\") which began on 25 May 1944. This operation had the task of killing or capturing Tito, and the operation was spearheaded by the 500th \"SS Fallschirmjäger-Bataillon\" and supported by the Brandenburg Regiment.\n\nIn this timespan many other ethnic groups joined the division, such as ethnic Croats, Hungarians, and over 1000 ethnic Serbs who volunteered for the division at General Phelps' office, most of whom were either ideologically or otherwise motivated to fight against the Partisans.\n\nIn May, June and July, the division also saw action in operations \"Freie Jagd\", \"Rose\" and \"Feuerwehr\". In August (12–30 August) the division was engaged in operation \"Rübezahl\", aimed to prevent offensive of NOVJ forces from Montenegro into western Serbia. In September, the Soviet Red Army had advanced to the Balkans and the division suffered heavy casualties in defensive battles against Bulgarian, Soviet and NOVJ forces in the Nish region.\n\nOn 21 September, \"Obergruppenführer\" Artur Phleps—the division's first commander—was believed to have been killed when en route from Montenegro to Transylvania.\n\nThe division's next action was the defence of the Kraljevo Bridgehead (\"Brückenkopf Kraljevo\") as the part of Army Corps Müller. This defence was essential for the success of Army Group E efforts to open a corridor which would allow the retreat of 350,000 German soldiers from Greece and the Aegean.\n\nIn the beginning of November, the SS 1st Albanian \"Skanderbeg\" Division was disbanded and its remnants incorporated into the 14th Regiment of \"Prinz Eugen\", which received its honor title \"Skanderbeg\".\n\nIn January 1945, the division was again in action against the Yugoslav army at Otok and Vukovar. In February it took part in Operation Wehrwolf against Yugoslav bridgehead in the Virovitica area.\n\nThe retreat from Bosnia continued and \"Prinz Eugen\" retreated through the NDH in April 1945. On 10 May, the division retreated towards Celje in Slovenia where it surrendered to Yugoslav forces on 11 May.\n\nResearchers of the Institute of History in Karlovac established a number of 276 civilian inhabitants of Karlovac area, killed by 7. SS Division during Operation Weiss I in January 1943. In February, the division conducted, together with 369th and 717th division, an assault on Grmeč. Some 15,000 civilian inhabitants, frightened and unwilling to wait for Germans, broke through the German lines together with Partisans, but those who left behind were destroyed mercilessly. Another drama of an attack on a refugee column happened on late February near Resanovci, during the Operation Weiss II, and resulted with hundreds of victims. According to official postwar investigation, the three German divisions were responsible for 3,370 killed civilians, and another 1,722 deported to concentration camps during the Operation Weiss.\n\nThe division was infamous for its cruelty, and committed numerous atrocities in the area of Nikšić in Montenegro:\n\nIn late May and early June 1943, during Operation Schwartz, the division killed large number of civilians and prisoners of war. In the villages of Dub, Bukovac, Miljkovac, Duba and Rudinci, in the Piva area, all captured inhabitants were killed, regardless of age or sex. The total number of victims from these villages was around 400.\n\nOn 12 July in the Muslim village Rotimlja, near Stolac, the 7th SS Division killed 66 civilians, 25 of which were younger than 15. On the same day, other units of the division killed 68 civilians, 36 younger than 15, in Muslim village of Košutica, near Sokolac.\n\nDuring its advancement towards Split, on 17–30 September 1943, the division killed 230 inhabitants of the villages in the Imotski, Sinj and Split area. After capturing Split, the division executed 48 Italian officers and three generals (General Raffaele Peligra, commander of the artillery of the XVIII Corps, General Poticardi, commander of the pioneers of the XVIII Corps, and General Alfonso Cigala Fulgosi, Commander of the 17th Littoral Brigade). On 5 November, the division executed 25 hostages in Sinj in a retribution for losses.\n\nThe 2nd Battalion of the 14th SS Regiment of the division killed 1,525 civilians on 26–30 March 1944, in the villages between Kamešnica and Mosor near Split, in an action under command of V SS Corps.\n\nOut of the four commanders of the division, one (Phleps) was killed in battle, two of them were sentenced to death by hanging and executed in Belgrade 1947, and the fourth (Kumm) managed to avoid extradition to Yugoslavia by fleeing over the wall of the internment camp of Dachau.\n\nThe following officers commanded the division:\n\nSeveral members were decorated with high German military awards, including one Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross with Oaks Leaves and Swords awarded to \"SS-Brigadeführer und Generalmajor der Waffen-SS\" Otto Kumm when he was the divisional commander. Divisional recipients of the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross included the first commander of the division, Artur Phleps and five others, all regimental or battalion commanders. One was awarded posthumously.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284855", "title": "Ian McCall (footballer)", "text": "Ian McCall (footballer)\n\nIan Holland McCall (born 30 September 1964) is a Scottish former football player and coach, who is currently the manager of Partick Thistle. During his playing days McCall played for Queen's Park, Dunfermline Athletic, Rangers, Bradford City, Dundee, Falkirk, Hamilton Academical, Happy Valley, Partick Thistle and Clydebank.\n\nHe then began an extensive managerial career, mostly in the lower leagues of Scotland starting with Clydebank, Greenock Morton, Airdrieonians, Falkirk, Dundee United, Queen of the South, Partick Thistle and Ayr United.\n\nIan McCall was born in Dumfries, Scotland. In his boyhood, he was a regular on the Palmerston terraces watching Queen of the South. His hopes of playing for his home town club were dashed, though, by then chairman Willie Harkness. \"I played a trial game for the club, and thought I did reasonably well,\" McCall recalls. \"Drew Busby was the manager, but I was told by Willie Harkness I might not make the grade. Instead I went to Queen's Park, and then three years after that was sold to Rangers for £250,000.\"\n\nMcCall began his career as a midfielder for Queen's Park in 1983, then was with Dunfermline Athletic from 1986 to 1987, and Rangers from 1987 to 1990. He was transferred to Bradford City for £200,000 before rejoining Dunfermline. His playing career also included spells with Dundee, Falkirk, Hamilton Academical, Happy Valley in Hong Kong and Partick Thistle back in Scotland. His final club as a player was Clydebank, where he became player-manager during the 1997–98 season.\n\nMcCall never made more than 75 league appearances in a single spell for one club. He made 85 league appearances for Dunfermline broken over two separate periods with the Fife club.\n\nHis spell at Clydebank took place against the backdrop of an abortive scheme to relocate the club to Dublin.\n\nIn 17 games in charge at Morton, McCall achieved five wins and 9 defeats.\n\nThis was followed by a move to Airdrieonians. Airdrie challenged for promotion to the Scottish Premier League before the club's extinction in 2002, making McCall the last manager in the club's history. McCall won 23 of his 65 games in charge.\n\nA spell, at Falkirk, with the best win rate of his managerial career, led to McCall twice being offered the manager's job at Dundee United, which he finally accepted in January 2003. In McCall's first top flight managerial season the Tayside Club achieved a top-6 finish, but in the following season with the club in a relegation battle he was sacked in March 2005.\n\nIn November 2005, Ian McCall returned to management with his home town club Queen of the South. After a less than auspicious start to his reign as Queen of the South manager, the Palmerston outfit enjoyed somewhat of a resurgence in the early months of 2006, finally securing eight position in the league and thus avoiding having to play-off to maintain first division status. 2006/07 provided a second relegation battle. Allan Jenkins scored the Stranraer winner on a 2 January South West relegation derby leaving Queens firmly in the play off spot that was ninth place. However Jenkins was sold to Gretna 10 days later. Stranraer's league form imploded immediately recording only one other league win from then until the season's end. Despite narrowly avoiding relegation, Ian McCall was sacked by Queen of the South, with his assistant Gordon Chisholm taking over. His departure from Queen of the South was in bitter circumstances. McCall fielded an ineligible player in Jamie Adams in a Scottish Cup run early in 2007. Queens were fined £20,000 by the SFA. Chairman Davie Rae described the fine as, \"A considerable sum\". McCall's departure from Queens was at the season's end. In 70 games in charge McCall notched 19 wins.\n\nHe became manager of Partick Thistle in May 2007. staying until 15 April 2011 when he departed after achieving 70 wins from 179 games in charge. In his first season in charge, McCall largely rebuilt the squad, bringing in players such as Marc Twaddle, Gary Harkins and Liam Buchanan, each of whom would go on to serve with distinction at the club.\n\nAfter three years out of the game, McCall was appointed manager of Ayr United in January 2015. He led the \"Honest Men\" to promotion to the Scottish Championship through the play-offs in May 2016. They were relegated the following season in May 2017. McCall then led an instant promotion back to the second tier in the following season by winning the Scottish League One title. Ayr reached the promotion playoffs in 2018–19. McCall left the club in September 2019 to join Partick Thistle.\n\nMcCall has worked for a number of years as a media pundit. McCall commented, \"I can't really slag my bosses at the BBC because they're my pals.\"\n\nMcCall lives in Glasgow. He has a son, called Edson from a previous marriage.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284857", "title": "Mackenzie, British Columbia", "text": "Mackenzie, British Columbia\n\nMackenzie is a district municipality within the Fraser-Fort George Regional District in central British Columbia, Canada. The community is located at the south end of Williston Lake. The townsite, established by Alexandra Forest Industries (acquired by BC Forest Products in 1967) and Cattermole Timber (partnered with Jujo Paper in 1970 to create Finlay Forest Industries), was named for Sir Alexander MacKenzie (1764–1820). Mackenzie's main industries are logging, lumber, market pulp and tourism. Duz Cho Logging, sawmills, such as the Canfor Corporation Mackenzie sawmill (successor to BCFP's lumber division) and Conifex Timber, (successor to FFI) and the Paper Excellence kraft pulp mill (successor to BCFP's pulp division), are major employers in town. As of July 2019, Canfor sawmill ceased production indefinitely as part of a province-wide curtailment of operations. The nearby Thompson Creek Metals Mount Milligan copper-gold operation provides secondary economic activity for the town.\n\nMackenzie is a destination for outdoor sports enthusiasts. In the winter, Mackenzie hosts dog sled racing, cross-country skiing, and snowmobiling competitions, and maintains 32km of groomed cross-country ski trails. Morfee Mountain overlooks Mackenzie and is a popular destination for local hiking and an off-road vehicle destination. Mackenzie has a swimming pool, indoor skating rink, a curling rink, and two developed beaches on Morfee Lake; First Beach is used primarily for recreational swimming, and Second Beach includes a boat launch. Mackenzie is home to Little Mac Ski Hill, a small local ski hill and mountain bike park just east of the main town and is 45 minutes away from Powder King ski resort. The surrounding area has several lakes that are popular for fishing and a healthy wildlife population makes Mackenzie a popular hunting destination. \n\nMackenzie Golf and Country Club is a challenging, semi-private, nine-hole golf course with a driving range and is within walking distance of most of the town, including the RV park.\n\nCommunity facilities include a recreation centre that houses the public library, gym, swimming pool, ice rink, and community hall. There is also an art centre, a museum, two shopping malls and two schools: Mackenzie Secondary School (which also serves McLeod Lake), and Morfee Elementary School. The schools are operated by the Prince George School District (No. 57).\n\nMackenzie also has several religious establishments, including a Sikh temple, St. Peter's Catholic, Mackenzie Baptist and Hope Trinity (converging the Anglican, Lutheran and United faiths) churches and Living Joy Christian Centre.\n\nMackenzie has been served by CHMM-FM, a not-for-profit radio station since 2003.\n\nMackenzie has its own Royal Canadian Mounted Police detachment, a provincial courtroom, a volunteer fire department, and a municipal hospital.\n\nMackenzie is located on Highway 39, from Highway 97. There is scheduled bus service to Chetwynd and Prince George. It is served by a small airport. There is no scheduled passenger service but charter services are available.\n\nMackenzie is less than east of Williston Lake reservoir, the largest man-made lake in British Columbia. Mackenzie is also home of the world's largest tree crusher.\n\n\nMackenzie has a subarctic climate that has influences from the Pacific Ocean resulting in less cold winters than expected for its northerly latitude compared to other Canadian locations. It has warm summer days, but the cool nights ensure that only three months go above in mean temperatures. Winters are very cold on occasion, although relatively short for a subarctic climate with a January mean of as the coldest month.\n\n"}
{"id": "2284860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284860", "title": "Members of the Tasmanian Legislative Council", "text": "Members of the Tasmanian Legislative Council\n\nThese are lists of members of the Tasmanian Legislative Council. Members of the Legislative Council serve six-year terms, with two or three members facing re-election at periodic elections held every year. Due to the difficulty of categorising members without having lists for each individual year, members are categorised here in six-year blocks starting firstly from 1885 and then from 1999.\n\n"}
{"id": "2284864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284864", "title": "Spiraling (band)", "text": "Spiraling (band)\n\nSpiraling is a New Jersey-based pop-rock quartet. The band was formed out of a previous incarnation called You Were Spiraling by keyboardist/vocalist Tom Brislin.\n\nSpiraling gained national exposure with its self-produced independent release \"Transmitter\". Critical and popular response to the album was enthusiastic. The Star-Ledger of Newark hailed, \"There isn't a dull moment on the band's self-released, immaculately produced debut album \"Transmitter\".\" It also attracted the attention of The New York Times, among a host of other national publications. It is difficult to pigeonhole the group's dynamic, synth-infused modern rock sound.\n\nThe band has performed with marquee acts such as OK Go, They Might Be Giants, Violent Femmes, and Rooney at various venues. In 2007, Brislin toured with Deborah Harry during the True Colors tour , and Spiraling was the whole band for Harry's Necessary Evil tour. Spiraling regularly plays at Glen Burtnik's XMAS Xtravaganza , performing \"Nutrocker\" and \"Do You Hear What I Hear\". At the 2007 Xtravanganza, they also played \"Feliz Navidad\" with Harry singing .\n\nBrislin has toured with progressive-rock legends Yes, as well as behind the operatic-rock of Meat Loaf, holding his own with these music veterans and gaining acceptance from both acts' devoted followings. He now is a member of Kansas, with writing credits on their new album The Absence of Presence.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284867", "title": "Erich Bey", "text": "Erich Bey\n\nErich Bey (23 March 1898 – 26 December 1943), was a German admiral during World War II. He served as commander of the Kriegsmarine's destroyer forces and commanded the battleship \"Scharnhorst\" in the Battle of the North Cape on 26 December 1943, during which the German ship was sunk. Bey was killed during that action.\n\nBey joined the Kaiserliche Marine on 13 June 1916 and served in its destroyer arm. Following the end of World War I, he stayed in the navy and continued his career with the rise of the Nazi Party in power in Germany. By the start of World War II was a \"Fregattenkapitän\" (frigate captain).\n\nBey led the 4th Destroyer Flotilla, consisting of the destroyers Z11 \"Bernd von Arnim\", Z12 \"Erich Giese\" and Z13 \"Erich Koellner\", as part of \"Kommodore\" Friedrich Bonte's force that carried General Eduard Dietl's mountain troops for the occupation of Narvik during the German invasion of Norway on 9 April 1940. In the following Battles of Narvik on 10 April and 13 April, Bey distinguished himself by leading a small group of destroyers in a brave though doomed action against a superior Royal Navy force that included the battleship .\nBey was awarded with the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross on 9 May 1940. The next day he was promoted to Captain and appointed commander of the German destroyer force (\"Führer der Zerstörer\"), succeeding Commodore Bonte, who had been killed on 10 April in the first Battle of Narvik. Bey then commanded the destroyer screen protecting the ships of the Brest Group (\"Scharnhorst\", \"Gneisenau\", \"Prinz Eugen\") during Operation Cerberus (the “Channel Dash”) in February 1942. Of the three, \"Scharnhorst\" suffered extensive damage, having struck a naval mine laid off the Dover Straits.\n\nPromoted to \"Konteradmiral\" (Rear Admiral), on Christmas Day, 25 December 1943, Bey led a task force consisting of the battleship \"Scharnhorst\" and the destroyers Z29, Z30, Z33, Z34 and Z38 out of Alta Fjord in Operation Ostfront. The first and only surface sortie ordered by Grand Admiral Karl Dönitz, Bey's objective was to intercept the Allied Convoy JW 55B en route to Murmansk.\n\nBey's initial force of \"Scharnhorst\" and five destroyers was superior to the convoy's escorting British cruisers and destroyers in terms of firepower. However, Bey's flagship was outmatched by Admiral Bruce Fraser's battleship which led another Royal Navy fleet shadowing the convoy. \"Scharnhorst\" was expected to use her speed to avoid an engagement with \"Duke of York\".\n\nPoor weather, heavy seas and inadequate Luftwaffe reconnaissance, prevented Bey from initially locating the convoy so he detached his destroyers to fan out and assist in the search. However, the storm meant that Bey's destroyers ending up playing no part in the battle. Bey guessed correctly and \"Scharnhorst\" then managed to locate the convoy by herself. In the first engagement of the ensuing Battle of North Cape, while trading fire with the British convoy's screening cruisers, \"Scharnhorst\"s radar was destroyed, rendering her blind. \"Scharnhorst\" was then caught by the more powerful HMS \"Duke of York\" and suffered critical damage before being sunk after several torpedo hits from British cruisers. Of \"Scharnhorst\"s crew of 1,968, Royal Navy vessels fished 36 men alive from the icy sea, not one of them an officer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284877", "title": "Tumbler Ridge", "text": "Tumbler Ridge\n\nTumbler Ridge is a district municipality in the foothills of the Canadian Rockies in northeastern British Columbia, Canada, and a member municipality of the Peace River Regional District. It has a area of , with a population of 1,987 (2016). The municipality incorporates a townsite and a large area of mostly Crown Land. The housing and municipal infrastructure, along with regional infrastructure connecting the new town to other municipalities, were built simultaneously in 1981 by the provincial government to service the coal industry as part of the British Columbia Resources Investment Corporation's Northeast Coal Development.\n\nIn 1981, a consortium of Japanese steel mills agreed to purchase 100 million tonnes of coal over 15 years for US$7.5 billion from two mining companies, Denison Mines Inc. and the Teck Corporation, who were to operate the Quintette mine and the Bullmoose mine respectively. Declining global coal prices after 1981, and weakening Asian markets in the late 1990s, made the town's future uncertain and kept it from achieving its projected population of 10,000 people. The uncertainty dissuaded investment and kept the economy from diversifying. When price reductions were forced onto the mines, the Quintette mine was closed in 2000 production and the town lost about half its population. Coal prices began to rise after the turn of the century, leading to the opening of the Peace River Coal Trend mine by Northern Energy & Mining Inc. (now owned by Anglo American Met Coal) and the Wolverine Mine, originally owned by Western Canadian Coal, which was purchased by Walter Energy in 2010.\n\nAfter dinosaur footprints, fossils, and bones were discovered in the municipality, along with fossils of Triassic fishes and cretaceous plants, the Peace Region Paleontology Research Center opened in 2003. The research centre and a dinosaur museum were funded in part by the federal Western Economic Diversification Canada to decrease economic dependence on the coal industry. In 2018, the museum to change its operations from science-based to tourism-attraction.\n\nIn 2014, both operating coal mines were put into \"care and maintenance mode\". This means the mines are effectively closed, but are still allowed to restart without needing to go through the process of getting a new mines act permit.\n\nEconomic diversification has also occurred with oil and gas exploration, forestry, and recreational tourism. Nearby recreational destinations include numerous trails, mountains, waterfalls, snowmobiling areas and provincial parks, such as Monkman Provincial Park, Bearhole Lake Provincial Park, and Gwillim Lake Provincial Park.\n\nArchaeological evidence show a human presence dating back 3,000 years. The nomadic Sekani, followed by the Dunneza and then the Cree, periodically lived in temporary settlements around the future municipality. Formal exploratory and surveying expeditions were conducted by S. Prescott Fay, with Robert Cross and Fred Brewster in 1914, J.C. Gwillim in 1919, Edmund Spieker in 1920, and John Holzworth in 1923. Spieker coined the name \"Tumbler Ridge\", referring to the mountains northwest of the future town, by altering Gwillim's map that named them \"Tumbler Range\". Permanent settlers were squatters, five families by 1920, who maintained trap lines. In the 1950s and 1960s, oil and natural gas exploration and logging was conducted through the area, and 15 significant coal deposits were discovered. Coal prices rose after the 1973 oil crisis leading to 40 government studies examining the viability of accessing the coal, given the 1,130 km (700 mi) to the nearest port and the mountainous barrier.\n\nWith these coal deposits in mind, a purchasing agreement was signed in 1981 by two Canadian mining companies, a consortium of Japanese steel mills, and the governments of British Columbia and Canada. As part of the deal, the provincial government committed, under the North East Coal Development plan, to build a new town near the deposits, two highways off Highway 97, a power line from the W. A. C. Bennett Dam at Hudson's Hope, and a branch rail line through the Rocky Mountains. An alternative of using work camps staffed by people from Dawson Creek and Chetwynd was also considered. Massive initial investments were required as planning for the new town began in 1976 with the objective of having a fully functioning town ready before residents arrived. Coordinated through the provincial Ministry of Municipal Affairs the town, regional infrastructure, and mining plants were all built simultaneously. When the municipality was incorporated in April 1981 the area was completely forested. During that year building sites and roadways were cleared and in the winter the water and sewerage system was built. In 1982, houses and other buildings were constructed. Full production at the mines was reached the following year.\n\nIn early 1983, the families of the managers at the Bullmoose Minesite, led by Dean Sawas appealed to the British Columbia government and were able to create a new settlement, called Bullmoose Settlement. This was done because Dean's wife was expecting and he wanted his child to have something different to say about her birthplace. He wanted her to be able to say that a settlement had been created for her and that she was, and would always be the only one born at that place. At her birth, Alicia V. Sawas was also written into the Tumbler Ridge records as the first child born in the Quintette area. Bullmoose Settlement was closed down after the reduction in mine activities with just the one birth.\n\nIn 1984, world coal prices were dropping and the Japanese consortium requested a reduction in the price of coal from the Tumbler Ridge mines. As price reduction requests continued, the concern over the viability of the mines led the BC Assessment Authority to lower the 1987 property assessments for the Quintette mine from CAD$156 million to $89 million and the Bullmoose mine $70 million to $43 million. This lowered their taxes as they tried to enforce the purchasing agreement at the Supreme Court of Canada. Their 1990 ruling required the Quintette Operations Company to reduce coal prices and reimburse the Japanese consortium $4.6 million. The company responded by reducing production, cutting employment, and applying for court protection from creditors. This allowed Teck to acquire 50% interest and take over management of the Quintette mine, but it was unable to stop further job losses. As most residents left town, apartment blocks were closed and the mine companies bought back all but 11 houses in the town. After 30% of the workforce had been laid off, new contracts with the Japanese consortium were signed in 1997, allowing re-hirings to begin, but with lower export levels. The North East Coal Development was projected to create a net benefit of CAD$0.9 billion (2000), but incurred a net loss of $2.8 billion and half the expected regional employment.\n\nThe population declined as many residents were unable to find other work in the town, even as a sawmill for specialty woods opened in 1999. After Teck closed the Quintette mine in August 2000 and shifted production to the lower cost Bullmoose mine, the town council established the Tumbler Ridge Revitalization Task Force to investigate ways to boost and diversify the economy. The Task Force negotiated the return of the housing stock from the mines to the free market, grants from the province to become debt-free, and stabilized funds from the province for healthcare and education. The discovery of dinosaur tracks in 2000 by two local boys while playing near a creek, led to major fossil and bone discoveries from the Cretaceous Period. To survey and study the finds, government funding was secured to found both the Tumbler Ridge Museum Foundation and Peace Region Palaeontology Research Centre.\n\nAfter the Bullmoose mine exhausted its supply of coal in 2003, world coal prices increased, making exploration and mining in Tumbler Ridge economically feasible again. Western Canadian Coal opened new open-pit mining operations creating the Dillon mine using Bullmoose mining infrastructure, the Brule mine near Chetwynd using new infrastructure (projected 11-year life span), and the Wolverine mine. These mines were purchased by Walter Energy in 2010, but world coal prices began to drop again in 2011, and in April 2014, Walter put their Canadian operations into \"care and maintenance mode\", laying off nearly 700 people.\n\nThe Peace River Coal Trend Mine was issued its mines act permit in 2005, and was a partnership between NEMI Northern Energy and Mining Inc., Anglo American, Hillsborough Resources and Vitol Anker International. In 2011, Anglo American bought out the rest of the partners to become sole owner of the property.\n\nAnglo American started working on the Roman Pit next to their existing Trend operation in 2014, hoping to reduce the cost of production per tonne of coal. However, in late 2014, they announced the mine would be going into care and maintenance mode as well.\n\nAs of Fall, 2015, there are no coal mines operating in Tumbler Ridge. However, HD Mining is continuing work on the Murray River Coal Mine, a proposed Underground Longwall Mine near Tumbler Ridge. The company was issued its Environmental Assessment Certificate from the BC Government in October 2015, though construction on the mine, if it were to go ahead, is not expected to begin until after a Mines Act Permit is issued, which is not expected until late 2016.\n\nOn September 22, 2014, the area around Tumbler Ridge was designated North America's second Geopark.\n\nPopulation projections in 1977 were for 3,568 residents in 1981, 7,940 in 1985, and 10,584 in 1987, after which the level was expected to stabilize. However, requests for lower coal prices shortly after the production began placed a persistent insecurity over the viability of the mines, and therefore the town, discouraging long term investments. Temporary work camps, where workers numbered between 200 and 2,000, were used during the construction of the town and mines. The planners of the town advised the mining companies to hire workers who were married, believing they would live in Tumbler Ridge longer and reduce employment turn-over. The population rose slowly to 3,833 people in 1984, nearly half the projected level. The 1986 Canadian census, the first census to include Tumbler Ridge, recorded 4,566 residents after which in-migration ended and the population level began to fluctuate. The population peaked in 1991 at 4,794 people but then declined to a low of 1,932 people in 2001. Since then, population growth has been led by new mining activities and increased exploration following higher world energy prices. The town's population is currently in a state of flux as people dependent on the mines for work leave, while other people, attracted by the town's low rent, arrive.\n\nThe Canada 2006 Census reported 2,454 residents living in 1,045 households and 765 families. This was 27% more people than the previous census five years earlier when the town was at its lowest population level since opening. The median age increased from 38.8 years in 2001 to 42.2 in 2006, as the proportion of the population aged over 65 rose from 5% to 11%. In 2006, of those over 15 years of age, 62% were married, higher than the 54% provincial average. The town has few visible minorities as 94% of Tumbler Ridge residents were Canadian-born and 93% had English as their first language. Though not included as a minority, 9% of residents claimed to have an Aboriginal identity. Reflecting the nature of the industrial jobs available in town, in 2001, only 12% of residents between 20 and 64 years of age completed university, half of the provincial average, and 26% did not complete high school, much higher than the 19% provincial average.\nIn 2005, the five officer Tumbler Ridge Royal Canadian Mounted Police municipal detachment reported 346 Criminal Code offences. This translated into a crime rate of 137 Criminal Code offences per 1,000 people, higher than the provincial average of 119 offences. During that year, the RCMP reported lower crime rates in Tumbler Ridge, compared with the provincial averages, in all categories except bicycle thefts, property damage, impaired driving, and cannabis-related offences. Until 2005, the town had a lower crime rate than the province, except between 2001 and 2003 after the Quintette mine closure and a large out-migration from the town. In 2004 the Tumbler Ridge RCMP reported no robbery or shoplifting offences, and only 4.5 theft-from-motor-vehicle offences per 1,000 people compared with 20 provincially.\n\nThe townsite is located on a series of southern-facing gravel terraces on a ridge of Mount Bergeron, overlooking the confluence of the Murray and Wolverine Rivers. The site, above the floodplain of the Murray River, has well-drained soils with easy access to aquifers with potable water. The rocks, mostly shale and mudstone but lacking quartzite, make the mountains less rugged than their neighbouring ranges. The terraces grow Lodgepole Pine, White Spruce, Trembling Aspen trees. Moose and elk are common. Escarpments to the east and north could pose a snow avalanche threat but are kept forested for stability. In 2006, the town was evacuated for several days as four forest fires approached the town.\n\nMajor coal deposits indicate the site was a swampy forest during the Cretaceous. Paleontologists have discovered tracks or fossils from ankylosauria, ornithopods (including a Hadrosaurus), and theropods. Fossils of Cretaceous plants such as ferns, redwoods, cycads, and ginkgo, and Triassic fishes and reptiles such as coelacanth, weigeltisaurus, and ichthyosaur have been recovered.\n\nThe town experiences a continental climate. Arctic air masses move predominantly southwestly from the Mackenzie Valley towards the Rocky Mountains and through the mountains north of town. The town is in a rain shadow behind Mount Bergeron, though much of the precipitation is lost in the mountains beforehand. Town planners laid out the roads so that they run along wind breaks, and buildings and parks are located in wind shadows.\nAfter examining other resource towns in Canada, the planners followed socio-spatial guidelines and principles in physical planning. The coal mining facilities were well separated from the townsite to minimize the feeling of a company town. An attempt to mitigate potential lifestyle conflicts between families and childless households was made by separating the low-density, single-family dwellings from the low-rise apartments. The apartment blocks were planned for areas with clusters of trees and excellent viewscapes, but close to the town plaza. The low-density residences that were more likely to have children living in them were oriented around elementary schools and parks. Cul-de-sacs were avoided in favour of better linkages and pedestrian access.\n\nTwo highways diverge from Highway 97 and intersect in Tumbler Ridge: Highway 52 (Heritage Highway) which runs 98 km (61 mi) south at Arras, and Highway 29 which runs 90 km (56 mi) southeast from Chetwynd. At the intersection Highway 29 ends but Highway 52 continues south through Tumbler Ridge, then unpaved, it runs northeast to Highway 2 near the Alberta border. In town, the 28 km (17 mi) of paved roads are laid out in a curvilinear pattern that use two arterial roads, MacKenzie Way and Monkman Way, to connect each section of town. Service roads from the townsite to the mines and forestry areas are maintained by the industries but are unpaved.\n\nThe unmanned Tumbler Ridge Airport, with its 1,219 m (4,000 ft) asphalt runway, is used by chartered and local flights. The closest airports with regularly scheduled flights are in Dawson Creek, Fort St John and Grande Prairie. The rail line into town is a 132 km (82 mi) formerly electrified branch line through the Rocky Mountains constructed by BC Rail to transport coal to the Ridley Terminal at the Port of Prince Rupert. The branch line includes two major tunnels: the 9 km (6 mi) Table Tunnel and the 6 km (4 mi) Wolverine Tunnel.\n\nThe town funds its own 14-member composite fire department with a paid Fire Chief and Protective Services Specialist, water treatment system, and sewage disposal system. Drinking water is drawn from two drilled wells south of the townsite where it is stored in a 7 million litre reservoir before being chlorinated and pumped into town. The storm sewers empty into the Murray River, but the sanitary sewage is processed through a lagoon system and released into the Murray River north of town. Both the town and the province, through the Northern Health Authority, operate the Tumbler Ridge Community Health Centre. The closest hospitals with over-night beds are in Chetwynd and Dawson Creek. The two public schools, Tumbler Ridge Elementary School and Tumbler Ridge Secondary School are run by the School District 59 Peace River South. Post-secondary courses, programs, and industry training are offered by Northern Lights College at the secondary school and community centre.\n\nTumbler Ridge was built to provide a labour force for the coal mining industry, which has remained the dominant employer throughout the town's history. The mining companies had a contract to sell 100 million tons of coal to a consortium of Japanese steel mills over 15 years for US$7.5 billion (1981). The Quintette Operating Corporation (QOC) was formed by partnership between Denison Mines (50%), Mitsui Mining (20%), Tokyo Boeki (20%), and other smaller firms, and began blasting at the Quintette mine in October 1982. The Bullmoose Operating Corporation was formed by the Teck Corporation (51%), Lornex (39%), Nissho Iwai (10%) and worked the smaller Bullmoose mine. The economic viability of the mining companies were in question since the world coal prices began falling in the early 1980s and the Japanese consortium requested reduced prices. After the Supreme Court ruled that the coal prices must be reduced, the QOC filed for court protection from its creditors allowing the Teck Corporation to take over management in 1992. By 1996, even as lay-offs continued, over half the town's labour force were employed at one of the two mines. New contracts with the Japanese consortium, signed 1997, moved production to the lower cost Bullmoose mine but guaranteed production until 2003 when that mine was expected to be exhausted. The Quintette mine was closed altogether on August 31, 2000.\n\nWhile there was an intent by the town's planners to move to a more diversified economy, the few initiatives in this direction were not supported by the industries or local decision-makers. Uncertainty about the town's future had been a serious concern to residents since the 1984 price reduction demands, but it was not until the closure of the Quintette mine that the town seriously investigate a diversification. Since then employment has been generated in tourism (attractions from dinosaur fossil discoveries, outdoor recreation, and nearby provincial parks), forestry, and oil and gas exploration.\n\nA $1.4 billion Murray River coal mine project near Tumbler Ridge, operated by HD Mining International, a company majority-owned by Huiyong Holdings Group, a private company from China uses long-wall mining in which \"coal is extracted along a wall in large blocks and then carried out on a conveyor belt.\" Penggui Yan, CEO of HD Mining and its controlling shareholder, was a manager of the state-owned China Shenhua Energy Co (CSEC), China's largest coal company, which had developed a highly advanced long-wall mining technology. In 2013 HD mining brought in 52 workers from China through the federal Temporary Foreign Worker Program(TFWP) claiming a requirement of the job is an ability to speak Mandarin.\nThe hiring was challenged in a Vancouver federal court by two labour unions in April 2013,\nThe unions claimed there were qualified Canadian job applicants, however the case was dismissed by Justice Russell Zinn who found there was nothing to support the unions claim.\n\nAfter dinosaur trackways were discovered in 2000, and bones in 2002, the Tumbler Ridge Museum Foundation began excavations and opened the Peace Region Palaeontology Research Centre. Fossils and bones are displayed at both locations. Tours and educational programs related to dinosaur, the trackways, and the wilderness are offered.\nTumbler Ridge's location among the Rocky Mountains has allowed for the development of numerous trail systems for motorized and non-motorized recreation. The trails and open areas span numerous mountains. Kinuseo Falls along the Murray River in the Monkman Provincial Park is the most popular destination for visitors to Tumbler Ridge. Two other provincial parks are just outside the municipal boundaries: Bearhole Lake Provincial Park and Gwillim Lake Provincial Park.\n\nAnnual events held in Tumbler Ridge include the Grizfest Music Festival, Emperor's Challenge – promoted as the most beautiful and most challenging half-marathon in the world – and the Ridge Ramble Cross-Country Ski Race. The Grizfest Music Festival (formerly Grizzly Valley Days) is a two-day concert held on the August long weekend, and includes a parade, dance, art show, and other community-wide events. The Emperor's Challenge, also in August, is a 21 km (13 mi) marathon up Roman Mountain.\n\nTumbler Ridge has one newspaper published in the community, the locally owned and operated \"Tumbler Ridge News\" (formerly \"Community Connections\"). The \"Tumbler Ridge Observer\" formerly covered the town and was published by the \"Peace River Block Daily News\" in Dawson Creek. \"The Ridge Blog\" was a short-lived online news source. One newsletter, \"Coffee Talk\", based out of Chetwynd, is circulated in the town. No radio station, or television station broadcasts from the town but there are local repeaters for stations from larger centres.\n\nIn Fall 2014 Tumbler Ridge was designated a full member of UNESCO's Global Geopark Network. Comprising 7,822 km, the geopark highlights the geological heritage of the area such as Cretaceous dinosaur tracks and bone bed and fossils of Triassic fishes and marine reptiles.\n\nThe District of Tumbler Ridge's council-manager form of municipal government is headed by a mayor (who also represents Tumbler Ridge on the Peace River Regional District's governing board) and a six-member council; these positions are subject to at-large elections every three years. Don McPherson was elected mayor on November 15, 2014, succeeding Darwin Wren. Sherry Berringer was elected as school trustee for a third term, sitting on the board of School District 59. The city funds a volunteer fire department headed by full-time fire chief Dustin Curry.\n\nTumbler Ridge is part of the Peace River South provincial electoral district, represented, since 2013, by Mike Bernier in the Legislative Assembly of British Columbia. Prior to Bernier, the riding was represented by Blair Lekstrom who was elected in the 2001 provincial election, with 72% support from the town's polls and re-elected in 2005 with 64% and in 2009 with 70% support. Before Lekstrom, Peace River South was represented by Jack Weisgerber as a member of the Social Credit Party of British Columbia (1986–1994) and Reform Party of British Columbia (1994–2001). In 1996, as leader of the Reform Party, Weisgerber won re-election despite the Tumbler Ridge polls placing him second to the New Democratic Party candidate.\n\nFederally, Tumbler Ridge is in the Prince George—Peace River riding, represented in the House of Commons of Canada by Conservative Party Member of Parliament Bob Zimmer. Before Zimmer, who was elected in May 2011, the riding was represented by Jay Hill since 1993. The riding was represented by Frank Oberle of the Progressive Conservative Party from 1972 to 1993. Oberle served as Canada's Minister of Science and Technology in 1985 and Minister of Forestry in 1989.\n\n"}
{"id": "2284882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284882", "title": "Clay Shirky", "text": "Clay Shirky\n\nClay Shirky (born 1964) is an American writer, consultant and teacher on the social and economic effects of Internet technologies and journalism.\n\nIn 2017 he was appointed Vice Provost of Educational Technologies of New York University (NYU), after serving as Chief Information Officer at NYU Shanghai from 2014 to 2017. He also is an Associate Professor at the Arthur L. Carter Journalism Institute and Associate Arts Professor at the Tisch School of the Arts' Interactive Telecommunications Program. His courses address, among other things, the interrelated effects of the topology of social networks and technological networks, how our networks shape culture and vice versa.\n\nHe has written and been interviewed about the Internet since 1996. His columns and writings have appeared in \"Business 2.0\", \"The New York Times\", the \"Wall Street Journal\", the \"Harvard Business Review\" and \"Wired\". Shirky divides his time between consulting, teaching, and writing on the social and economic effects of Internet technologies. His consulting practice is focused on the rise of decentralized technologies such as peer-to-peer, web services, and wireless networks that provide alternatives to the wired client–server infrastructure that characterizes the World Wide Web. He is a member of the Wikimedia Foundation's advisory board. In \"The Long Tail\", Chris Anderson calls Shirky \"a prominent thinker on the social and economic effects of Internet technologies.\"\n\nAfter graduating from Yale University with a Bachelor of Arts degree in fine art in 1986, he moved to New York. In the 1990s he founded the Hard Place Theater, a theatre company that produced non-fiction theater using only found materials such as government documents, transcripts and cultural records and also worked as a lighting designer for other theater and dance companies, including the Wooster Group, Elevator Repair Service and Dana Reitz. During this time, Shirky was vice-president of the New York chapter of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, and wrote technology guides for Ziff Davis. He appeared as an expert witness on cyberculture in \"Shea v. Reno\", a case cited in the U. S. Supreme Court's decision to strike down the Communications Decency Act in 1996.\n\nShirky was the first Professor of New Media in the Media Studies department at Hunter College, where he developed the MFA in Integrated Media Arts program.\n\nIn the Fall of 2010, Shirky was a visiting Morrow Lecturer at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government instructing a course titled: \"New Media and Public Action\".\n\nIn his book \"Here Comes Everybody\", Shirky explains how he has long spoken in favor of crowdsourcing and collaborative efforts online. He uses the phrase \"the Internet runs on love\" to describe the nature of such collaborations. In the book, he discusses the ways in which the action of a group adds up to something more than just aggregated individual action borrowing the phrase \"more is different\" from physicist Philip Warren Anderson.\n\nShirky asserts that collaborative crowdsourced work results from \"a successful fusion of a plausible promise, an effective tool, and an acceptable bargain with the users.\" He states that the promise of what the user will get out of participating in a project leads to a person's desire to get involved. Collaborators will then choose the best social networking tool to do the job. One that \"must be designed to fit the job being done, and it must help people do something they actually want to do.\" The bargain, Shirky states, defines what collaborators expect from each other's participation in the project. Shirky's 'Promise, Tool, Bargain' premise restates aspects of the Uses and Gratifications Theory of mass media research.\n\nHe points to four key steps. The first is sharing, a sort of “me-first collaboration” in which the social effects are aggregated after the fact; people share links, URLs, tags, and eventually come together around a type. This type of sharing is a reverse of the so-called old order of sharing, where participants congregate first and then share (examples include Flickr, and Delicious). The second is conversation, that is, the synchronization of people with each other and the coming together to learn more about something and to get better at it. The third is collaboration, in which a group forms under the purpose of some common effort. It requires a division of labor, and teamwork. It can often be characterized by people wanting to fix a market failure, and is motivated by increasing accessibility.\n\nThe fourth and final step is collective action, which Shirky says is “mainly still in the future.” The key point about collective action is that the fate of the group as a whole becomes important.\n\nShirky also introduces his theory of mass amateurization:\nCombined with the lowering of transaction costs associated with creating content, \"mass amateurization\" of publishing changes the question from \"Why publish this?\" to \"Why not?\" Tied to \"mass amateurization\" is the idea of \"publish-then-filter\" which is now required due to the mere size and amount of material being created on a daily basis. Shirky calls this \"mass amateurization of filtering\" a forced move. He uses the Portland Pattern Repository, which introduced the wiki concept that inspired Wikipedia, as an example of this new marriage of mass content creation and mass filtering.\n\nIn 2010 Shirky published \"\" which expands on themes introduced in \"Here Comes Everybody\". The book follows concepts he introduced in a Web 2. 0 conference presentation April 23, 2008 called \"Gin, Television, and Social Surplus\", Herein he popularizes the concept of \"cognitive surplus\", the time freed from watching television which can be enormously productive when applied to other social endeavors. Technology has turned many past consumers into producers. This new production capacity, combined with humanity's willingness to share, can change society if applied to \"civic\" endeavors.\n\nShirky introduces Cognitive Surplus as a continuation of his work in \"Here Comes Everybody\". \"This book picks up where that one left off, starting with the observation that the wiring of humanity lets us treat free time as a shared global resource, and lets us design new kinds of participation and sharing that take advantage of that resource.\"\n\nShirky has also written about \"algorithmic authority,\" which describes the process through which unverified information is vetted for its trustworthiness through multiple sources.\n\nIn July 2005, Shirky gave a talk titled \"Institutions vs collaboration\" as a part of TEDGlobal 2005. This presentation reveals many of the ideas and concepts that would ultimately be presented in Here Comes Everybody and in future TED talks. Shirky compares the \"coordination costs\" between groups formed under traditional institutions and those formed by groups which \"build cooperation into the infrastructure.\" Classic institutions have to create economic, management, legal and physical structures and inherently, by creating these rigid structures, must exclude large numbers of people. Companies like Flickr, however, having built \"cooperation into the infrastructure\" of their company, do not have to build massive infrastructure nor exclude large groups of potential contributors.\n\nShirky states that since many social systems follow the Pareto principle wherein 20% of contributors account for 80% of contributions, traditional institutions lose out of the long tail of contributors by turning only the few that dominate the distribution into employees. The \"cooperative infrastructure\" model escapes having to lose this resource. Shirky presents an \"institution as enabler\" and \"institution as obstacle\" concept. The relatively small number of high-volume contributors can be assimilated, as employees, into the old-style corporate model and thus can live in an \"institution-as-enabler world\". The long tail of contributors, however, who make few and infrequent contributions, see institutions as an obstacle as they would never have been hired, therefore, disenfranchised. Shirky argues that an idea or contribution may be infrequent and significant. Furthermore, all of the long tail contributors, taken in aggregate, can be substantial.\n\nOne pitfall of the \"mass amateurs\" creating their own groups is that not all niches that are filled will be positive ones; Shirky presents pro-ana groups as an example. Shirky closes by stating that the migration from institutions to self-organizing, collaborative groups will be incomplete and will not end in a utopian society. Rather, chaos will follow as was created by the advent of the printing press before it, and that this period of transition will last roughly fifty years.\n\nShirky claims that our actions and behavior are generated by convenience. Writer and analyst Megan Garber writes: “The more people we have participating in media, and the more people we have consuming it—and the more people we have, in particular, creating it—the better. Not because bigger is implicitly better than the alternative compact, but because abundance changes the value proposition of media as a resource.\" \n\nAccording to Jay Baer by making collaboration more convenient for the user, it will eventually become a more commonplace. Further, enhancing the outcome of collaboration will instill motivation within the users.\n\nAccording to Audrey Tang, Shirky has pioneered the notion of a \"cognitive surplus\", to describe the way that time spent on the internet can have an increasing social value.\n\nIn June 2009, Shirky participated in a TED@State talk titled \"How cellphones, Twitter and Facebook can make history\" aka \"How social media can make history.\" In the talk, he explains that this is the first time in history that communication is possible from many to many. In the past, communication to a large group excluded the possibility of having a conversation, and having a conversation meant not interacting with a group and instead was necessarily a one-to-one structure. Shirky labels this incongruous exchange as asymmetric. In Shirky's view, this feature is one of the main reasons that the internet revolution is different from communication revolutions that preceded it.\n\nThe second difference between the twentieth and twenty-first century communication revolution, Shirky states, is now all media is digitized. This means that the Internet now encapsulates all forms of media from the past and the medium itself has become the site of exchange, not just a means of exchange.\n\nFinally, the Internet allows people to create content, thus the line between producers and consumers has become blurred. As Shirky puts it, \"Every time a new consumer joins this media landscape, a new producer joins as well.\" Even countries like China, as Shirky gives as an example, go to great lengths to control information exchange on the Internet but are having trouble as the \"amateurization\" of media creation has effectively turned every owner of a cellphone and Twitter account into a journalist. The populace as a whole, Shirky claims, is a force much harder to control than a handful of professional news sources. He compares the \"Great Firewall of China\" to the Maginot Line as both were built to protect from external threats but that is not where the majority of content is being created in this new media landscape.\n\nAs an example of the potential of this two-way, collaborative environment Shirky believes we are now living in, he presents as a case study MyBarackObama.com. Over the issue of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, members of the website were upset over Obama's announcement that he was changing his stance and that now he was going to sign the bill \"that granted immunity for possibly warrantless spying on American persons.\" Despite the disagreement between the President and the posters opposed to his altered view, Shirky cites the mere fact that the President posted a reply to their concerns, instead of persecuting/ignoring the group, as hope for the future of this new form of mass media.\n\nIn April 2010, Kevin Kelly cited the phrase \"Institutions will try to preserve the problem to which they are the solution\", and called it the \"Shirky Principle\", as the phrasing reminded him of the clarity of the Peter Principle.\n\nIn June 2010, Shirky participated in TED@Cannes wherein he spoke about \"cognitive surplus\" and its role furthering \"communal\" and \"civic value\". The talk was titled, \"How cognitive surplus will change the world,\" and the possibility for change, which Shirky presents, runs the spectrum at one end with \"communal value\" being increased and at the other end with \"civic value\" being furthered. Digital technology has allowed human generosity and \"the world's free time and talents,\" which Shirky calls \"cognitive surplus\", to combine and create a new form of creative expression. This creative expression can take the form of lolcats or endeavors such as Ushahidi; the former Shirky says increases \"communal value\", \"it is created by the participants for each other\" for simple amusement, whereas the latter he cites furthers \"civic value\" meaning the group action is taken to benefit society as a whole.\n\nShirky then presents the view that society lives under \"social constraint\" and that these \"social constraints\" can create a culture that is \"more generous than\" the environment created by \"contractual constraints\" alone. Understanding where the economic or \"contractual\" motivation of a situation ends and where the \"social\" part begins, Shirky claims is key when designing to maximize generosity. This being the case, to have society use its \"trillion hours a year of participatory value\" to advance \"civic value\", society itself simply needs to prize, and collectively praise, endeavors like Ushahidi.\n\nClay Shirky wrote an essay about the aspects of online community building through broadcast media. As members of a broad social community and users of media outlets, Shirky suggests ways in which we can build up this type of society.\n\nShirky suggests five different things to think about when dealing with broadcast media outlets:\nAudiences are built. Communities grow.\nCommunities face a tradeoff between size and focus.\nParticipation matters more than quality.\nYou may own the software, but the community owns itself.\nThe community will want to build. Help it, or at least let it.\n\nIn March 2011, Shirky responded to questions raised by Evgeny Morozov about consulting he had done for the Libyan government. Morozov tweeted \"With Clay Shirky consulting the Libyan govt, it's now clear why dictators are so smart about the Web\". Shirky explained he had been invited in 2007 to speak in Boston to Libya's IT Minister. Shirky stated the talk was \"about using social software to improve citizen engagement in coastal towns. The idea was that those cities would be more economically successful if local policies related to the tourist trade were designed by the locals themselves.\" Shirky added that nothing came of the project beyond his initial talk. He defended his underlying desire to expand representative government in Libya and concluded that \"the best reason to believe that social media can aid citizens in their struggle to make government more responsive is that both citizens and governments believe that.\"\n\nIn January 2012, at TED Salon NY, Shirky gave a talk titled \"Why SOPA is a bad idea.\" He cites SOPA as a way for traditional, mass media producers to \"raise the cost of copyright compliance to the point where people simply get out of the business of offering it as a capability to amateurs.\" After an offending internet site is identified, with the identification process itself not specified in the bill, the targeted site will be removed from the Domain Name System (DNS). Shirky claims since you can still use the static IP address of the site in question, removal from DNS is futile. He identifies the Audio Home Recording Act of 1992 as a law that was able to delineate between sharing with your friends as being legal and selling for commercial gain as illegal. Unsatisfied, media companies, Shirky claims, continued to push government to create more sweeping legislation which would hinder any form of sharing. This pressure, in 1998, created the Digital Millennium Copyright Act. It was now legal for media companies to sell uncopyable material although uncopyable digital material does not exist. To remedy this fact, Shirky states that media companies now tried to break consumer's computer hardware to create the illusion that the media they purchased was indeed uncopyable.\nWhereas DMCA was \"surgical,\" SOPA is \"nuclear\" since the law stipulates any sites pointing to \"illegal\" content may be censored. Ultimately, Shirky points out the public-at-large is by far the largest producers of content and they are the ones which will be censured. They will be presumed guilty until they can prove the content they published is not illegal. This turns the American legal system on its head. He closes by encouraging Americans to contact their senators and congressmen and reminding them they prefer \"not to be treated like a thief.\"\n\nOn June 29, 2012, Shirky participated in Session 12: Public Sphere of TEDGlobal 2012. Shirky made the observation that many of the technological advancements in communication throughout history, from the printing press to the television, were heralded as harbingers of world peace yet ended up creating greater dissent. \"The more ideas there are in circulation, the more ideas there are for any individual to disagree with.\" However, Shirky claims, with this increased \"arguing,\" comes an increased \"speed\" of information exchange. Shirky cites \"The Invisible College\" as an example of a group that was able to utilize this effect created by the printing press, via the scientific journal, to help launch the scientific revolution.\n\nHe then states we are in a similar period today with open-source programmers and their use of distributed version control or DVCS. DVCS, he argues, allows for \"more arguments\" to be made into \"better arguments\". DVCS also allows for \"cooperation without coordination\" which Shirky states is \"the big change\". He then suggests that DVCS fits naturally with law as it, and software development, are \"dependency-related.\" Shirky presents another application for DVCS – drafting legislation. He cites Open Legislation, a listing of legislative information from the New York State Senate and Assembly, as an early step in that direction.\n\nThe talk culminates with Shirky posing the open question of whether or not government will transition from striving towards one-way transparency to mutual collaboration and suggests if it does, there is already a \"new form of arguing\" centered around DVCS to aid the transition.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284888", "title": "Annapurna II", "text": "Annapurna II\n\nAnnapurna II is part of the Annapurna mountain range, and is the eastern anchor of the range. It was first climbed in 1960 by a British/Indian/Nepalese team led by J. O. M. Roberts via the West Ridge, approached from the north. The summit party comprised Richard Grant, Chris Bonington, and Sherpa Ang Nyima. In terms of elevation, isolation (distance to a higher summit, namely Annapurna I East Peak, ) and prominence (), Annapurna II does not rank far behind Annapurna I Main, which serves as the western anchor. It is a fully independent peak, despite the close association with Annapurna I Main which its name implies. Annapurna II is the 16th highest mountain in the world.\n\nYugoslavs from Slovenia repeated this ascent in 1969, also climbing Annapurna IV. Kazimir Drašlar and Matija Maležič reached the summit. In 1973 Japanese shortcut the route by climbing directly up the north face between IV and V before continuing along the west ridge. Katsuyuki Kondo reached the top in a remarkable solo performance.\n\nIn 1983, Tim Macartney-Snape planned and participated in an expedition to Annapurna II () successfully reaching the summit via the first ascent of the south spur. The descent was delayed by a blizzard and the expedition ran out of food during the last five days. They were reported missing and when the expedition eventually returned they received significant publicity.\n\nOn Feb 2, 2007; Philipp Kunz, Lhakpa Wangel, Temba Nuru and Lhakpa Thinduk made the first winter ascent. The team followed the route of the first ascent from the north.\n\n"}
{"id": "2284892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284892", "title": "Earls Cove, British Columbia", "text": "Earls Cove, British Columbia\n\nEarls Cove is a small settlement located on Jervis Inlet in the Sunshine Coast region of British Columbia. It is a terminal for the BC Ferries route across the inlet to Saltery Bay, linking the Lower Sunshine Coast with the Upper Sunshine Coast. Earls Cove is the at the north end of the Sechelt Peninsula and on the east side of the mouth of Jervis Inlet, adjacent to Agamemnon Channel, across which is Nelson Island.\n\nEarls Cove was named indirectly after an early pioneer of the area, Mr. Earl: the name was officialized in the plural form (rather than the possessive \"Earl's\") at the request of the community, as there were several families named Earl in the area.\n\nEarls Cove is accessed by ferry terminal and paved highway. From the Lower Mainland, BC Ferries provides service from Horseshoe Bay to Langdale. From Langdale, Highway 101 runs to the end of the Sunshine Coast at the community of Lund; Earls Cove, and the ferry from Earls Cove to Saltery Bay, is approximately midway between Langdale and Lund. The distance from Vancouver to Earls Cove is 136 kilometres (85 mi). The ferry trip across the mouth of Jervis Inlet provides passengers with scenery little changed from when Captain George Vancouver explored the area in 1792.\n\nThe Earls Cove Ferry Terminal is a BC Ferries terminal with two berths that links Highway 101 across Jervis Inlet to Saltery Bay. Known as the \"Sechelt – Powell River (Earls Cove–Saltery Bay)\" ferry, it is about long and serviced by the MV \"Island Sky\". The trip by ferry from Earls Cove to Saltery Bay takes about 50 minutes.\n\nThe Sunshine Coast lives up to its name - generally winters are mild and wet, and the summers drier than many other coastal areas. Average temperatures range from 4°C (39°F) in January to 18°C (64°F) in July. Average rainfall is about 100 cm (39 in); mild weather patterns mean that snowfall in the area is very light. The temperate climate has made this a popular area for retirees and vacationers looking for outdoor recreational opportunities of all sorts.\n\nNearby Sakinaw and Ruby Lakes are noted for their trout fishing in season. They are also freshwater havens for canoers and kayakers. \n\nRuby Lake Lagoon is home to over 80 species of birds, and to other animals. Wildlife watchers can observe Wood Duck, painted turtles, beavers, otters, elk, deer and bears. \n\nThe northern terminus of the Suncoaster Trail, a 33 km (21 mi) trail popular with hikers and bikers, is at Klein Lake, just east of Earls Cove. NIHO Land & Cattle Company (owners of recreational land) strongly recommend before attempting any hike in this region you first purchase a hiking guide from a local bookstore. \n\nThere are several provincial parks in the area, including Musket Island Marine Park. Ambrose Lake Ecological Reserve preserves a small coastal lake, adjacent bogland, and surrounding forest, and is open to the public for non-destructive pursuits like hiking, nature observation and photography.\n"}
{"id": "2284917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284917", "title": "Crap Towns", "text": "Crap Towns\n\nCrap Towns: The 50 Worst Places to Live in the UK, Crap Towns II: The Nation Decides, and Crap Towns Returns: Back by Unpopular Demand, are a series of books edited by Sam Jordison and Dan Kieran, in association with UK quarterly \"The Idler\"; in which towns in the United Kingdom were nominated by visitors to \"The Idler\" website for their \"crapness\", with the results being published in \"The Idler\" and in the books. A sister publication, \"Crap Jobs\", was created by similar means, and \"Crap Holidays\" was published in October 2006. In June 2012, the editors announced that they were gathering nominations for a third edition of Crap Towns (published 2013).\n\nPublication of \"Crap Towns\" brought widespread criticism from residents, politicians and other notable figures from the towns listed.\n\nMany notable figures were quick to defend their respective towns. These included a number of MPs such as Michael Howard, MP for Hythe in Kent, which appeared at number four in the 2003 edition. Howard claimed that Hythe was \"the jewel of Kent.\"\n\nSome thought the selection process and/or subsequent portrayals to be inherently biased, \"random\", subjective, inconsistent and/or unscientific. The editors of the book wrote to \"local worthies\" in each of the nominated towns to gain their responses and views.\nLocal newspapers were quick to defend their towns, such as the \"Stockport Express\" (2006),\n\nConversely, some former residents have tended to agree with the assessments, such as Sarfraz Manzoor, writing about Luton in \"The Guardian\" (2006). However, Manzoor also concluded that there was \"of course, an unmistakable air of snobbery around the people behind such a book; the stench of rich kids having fun at the expense of those less able to afford to be professionally idle\" and added that \"rather than sneering at towns such as Luton, we should be applauding the contribution that crap towns have made to all our lives.\"\nReaders voted for the top 50 crap towns in the UK. The top ten by reader votes in descending order of \"crapness\" (with 1 being the worst) were:\n"}
{"id": "2284919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284919", "title": "Chapman To", "text": "Chapman To\n\nChapman To Man-chak (, born 8 June 1972), born Edward Ng Cheuk-cheung (), is a Hong Kong actor. He is best known for his roles in films such as \"Infernal Affairs\" and \"Initial D\".\n\nTo began his acting career in TV soap operas and moved to the big screen in 2000. He is best known for playing Tsui Wai-Keung in the \"Infernal Affairs\" trilogy, as well as the role of Itsuki Tachibana in \"Initial D\". He remarried in 2005 to Kristal Tin. In 2006, he starred in Pang Ho-Cheung's film, \"Isabella\" with Isabella Leong.\n\nAlong with acting, To was also a radio personality for Commercial Radio 2(CR2). He hosted the show, \"On a Clear Day\" (在晴朗的一天出發), a 2-hour morning show which was co-hosted by Michelle Lo and Jan Lamb. However, after a fall-out with the key personnel of the radio company, Chapman lost the radio hosting job in 2006.\n\nTo is also an avid amateur photographer. In 2011, To was hired as the photographer for cantopop singer Prudence Liew's album, \"Love Addict\". To stated that this is the first time he is paid for his photography work.\n\nIn March 2014, To expressed support for the Sunflower Student Movement in Taiwan, which was skeptical of a proposed agreement to create closer ties between Taiwan and mainland China.\n\nDuring Hong Kong's Umbrella Movement, he was involved in online arguments with some mainland netizens.\n\nTo criticized the Chinese government and proudly stated to netizens to, \"Stop me from coming to the mainland if you've got guts\"\nChinese audiences reacted and To's first two movies after the incident, \"Let Go for Love\" and \"Aberdeen\", flopped at the Chinese box office. The production companies apologized and regretted casting To.\n\nHong Kong directors, such as Wong Jing, subsequently refused to work with To, resulting in him being blacklisted in both the Chinese and Hong Kong movie market.\n\nExiled from the lucrative Chinese market, To focused on Malaysia and Singapore. However, despite not having Chinese investment, his movies have achieved success in its target markets. To acted as director, writer, and actor for these low budget films.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284927", "title": "Courtney Roby", "text": "Courtney Roby\n\nCourtney E. Roby (born January 10, 1983) is a former American football wide receiver, drafted by the Tennessee Titans in the third round of the 2005 NFL Draft, following a historical college football career at Indiana.\nRoby has also played for the Cincinnati Bengals, Indianapolis Colts, New Orleans Saints, and Atlanta Falcons.\n\nRoby attended North Central High School in Indianapolis, Indiana where he starred in both football and track for the Panthers. As a senior at North Central High School, Roby was an All-State selection in football, after rushing for 539 yards and six touchdowns, catching 12 passes for 296 yards and three touchdowns, while averaging 32 yards per kickoff return and returning three for touchdowns. He was also an All-State selection in track and field while being selected to the Indiana All-Star teams in both sports.\n\nCourtney attended Indiana University as a two sport athlete in football and track. In football, Roby was an elected Captain and team MVP for his Senior season while finishing his career as the most productive receiver in Hoosier football history, breaking the all-time records for career receptions and yardage with 170 catches and 2,524 yards. During the 2002 season, he was just the third receiver in Hoosier history to gain over 1,000 yards in a single season, while his 59 receptions ranked second in school history. After completing his senior campaign, Roby was selected to participate in the Senior Bowl All-Star game, an honor given to the top NFL prospects in the country. \n\nAs a member of the Indiana University track and field team, Roby competed in the 100m dash and 4x100m relay. As a Junior he placed fourth in the BigTen Conference Championships 100m.\n\nRoby was drafted by the Tennessee Titans in the third round of the 2005 NFL Draft.\nHe was released by the Titans on September 1, 2007.\n\nRoby was signed by the Cincinnati Bengals on October 16, 2007. On October 26, 2007, he was released by the Bengals.\n\nOn January 14, 2008, Roby was signed by the Indianapolis Colts. He was released on September 11, 2008.\n\nThe New Orleans Saints, signed Roby on October 16, 2008. He played in five games for the Saints before suffering an injury and being placed on the injured reserve list. A free agent after the 2008 season, Roby re-signed with the Saints on March 16, 2009. On November 15, 2009, Roby returned a kickoff 97 yards for a touchdown, while his 61 yard return in the victory over the Minnesota Vikings in the NFC Championship game set a post season club record. Courtney finished the season ranked third in the NFL for kick return yardage and was the primary kick returner and top special teams contributor during their run to a victory in Super Bowl XLIV, leading to being voted as the Saints’ Special Teams MVP.\n\nRoby returned as the Saints’ primary kick returner and gunner for the 2010 season. In the December 12, 2010 game against St. Louis, Roby suffered an apparently serious concussion and neck injury on a kickoff return; he was removed from the field on a cart and taken to the hospital by ambulance. Roby was placed on the injured reserve list on December 29, 2010. He became an unrestricted free agent following the 2011 season, but was re-signed on April 16, 2012. Roby was released on August 31, 2013.\n\nOn June 27, 2014, Roby was signed by the Atlanta Falcons. He was released on October 7, 2014.\n\nCourtney was born to John Roby, Jr., and Donita Turner-Douglas. He is the oldest of four with two brothers, Brandon Walker-Roby, who is also a former WR at Indiana University (2005–2008) and John \"Tre\" Roby III, a former WR at Lindenwood University. Courtney has one sister, Karrington.\n\nRoby comes from a family of athletes: father John Roby, Jr. excelled in basketball for the University of Indianapolis (formerly known as Indiana Central), cousin Landon Turner starred for the 1981 NCAA Championship Indiana University basketball team, uncle Rob Turner was an excellent WR at Indiana University (1987–90), Roby is also the cousin of NFL RB Darren Sproles and the late NFL punter Reggie Roby.\n\nCourtney married his wife Krystal on July 13, 2013, with whom he has two daughters.\n\n"}
{"id": "2284928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284928", "title": "Kafi", "text": "Kafi\n\nKafi ( , , Hindi: काफ़ी, Urdu: کافی, Sindhi:ڪافي) is a classical form of Sufi music mostly in the Punjabi and Sindhi languages and originating from the Punjab and Sindh regions the Indian subcontinent. Some well-known Kafi poets are Baba Farid, Bulleh Shah, Shah Hussain, Shah Abdul Latif Bhittai, Sachal Sarmast and Khwaja Ghulam Farid. This poetry style has also lent itself to the Kafi genre of singing, popular throughout South Asia, especially Pakistan, Bangladesh and India. Over the years, both Kafi poetry and its rendition have experienced rapid growth phases as various poets and vocalists added their own influences to the form, creating a rich and varied poetic form, yet through it all it remained centered on the dialogue between the Soul and the Creator, symbolized by the murid (disciple) and his Murshid (Master), and often by lover and his Beloved.\n\nThe word Kafi is derived from the Arabic \"kafa\" meaning group. The genre is said to be derived from the Arabic poetry genre, \"qasidah\", a monorhyme ode that is always meant to be sung, using one or two lines as a refrain that is repeated to create a mood. Kafi poetry is usually themed around heroic and great romantic tales from the folkfore, often used as a metaphor for mystical truths, and spiritual longing.\n\nIn musical terms, kafi refers to the genre of Punjabi and Sindhi classical music which utilizes the verses of kafi poets such as Bulleh Shah and Shah Hussain. Kafi music is devotional music, normally associated with the Sufi orders or \"Tariqah\" of Islam in South Asia, and was sung by dervishes or fakirs (Islamic mendicants), solo or in groups, as an offering to their murshid, spiritual guide.\n\nIt is characterized by a devotional intensity in its delivery, and as such overlaps considerably with the Qawwali genre. Just like Qawwali, its performances often took place at the dargahs (mausoleums) of various Sufi saints in the region. However, unlike Qawwali, the musical arrangement is much simpler and may only include one harmonium, one tabla, one dholak and a single vocalist. The emphasis remains on the words rather than the music itself, since the central aim of Kafi music is to convey the essence of the mystical lyrics. The central verse is often repeated. There are no fixed styles of singing of Kafi. Traditionally dervishes in Sindh used instruments like \"Yaktaro\", a one-stringed plucked instrument, and wooden clappers, \"chappars\", though many contemporary singers have chosen their own variations\n\nSome of the early notable exponents of this form in the 1930s, when classical singing became highly popular, were Ustad Ashiq Ali Khan of the Patiala gharana, who used the dhrupad style in his rendition of Sindhi Kafis, and his contemporary in Sindhi kafi singing, Ustad Allahdino Noonari, who used the fusion form.\n\nKafi has gained a higher profile in the West in the late 20th century, thanks to the Pakistani singer Abida Parveen, who, like qawwali maestro Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan, has performed in front of the Western audiences.\n\nSanam Marvi from Hyderabad is another singer and vocalist, performing Kafi based Sufi songs.\n"}
{"id": "2284936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284936", "title": "Downtown Cleveland", "text": "Downtown Cleveland\n\nDowntown Cleveland is the central business district of Cleveland, Ohio. It is the economic and symbolic center of the Cleveland-Akron-Canton, OH Combined Statistical Area.\n\nReinvestment in the area in the mid-1990s spurred a rebirth in Downtown, with the residential population growing from 7,261 in 1990 to 9,599 in 2000 and 11,693 in 2010. It had the largest population growth, by percentage, of any Cleveland neighborhood over that time. The neighborhood's population was estimated at 15,000 in September 2017 (of which slightly more than 800 were owner-occupied condominiums), with another 1,000 rental units becoming available by the end of 2017. The Downtown Cleveland Alliance, a nonprofit which promotes the area, said that the neighborhood's population will hit more than 20,000+ by 2020 when all 17 anticipated housing projects were completed, making it one of the most populated downtown districts of cities of its size.\n\nBetween 2010 and 2014, Downtown Cleveland saw more than $4.5 billion in residential and commercial developments. In 2012, Forbes included Downtown Cleveland in a list of \"15 U.S. Cities Emerging Downtown\". As of 2000, 100,000 people worked in the district, which in 2012 contained more than 16 million square feet of rentable office space.\n\nThe heart of downtown and the city's first settled area, Public Square was laid out by city founder Moses Cleaveland in 1796 and has remained largely unchanged. It consists of a large open space, cut into quadrants by Ontario Street and Superior Avenue. Public Square is the symbolic heart of the city, and has hosted presidents, vast congregations of people, and a free annual 4th of July concert by the Cleveland Orchestra. At one time, Public Square was fenced off and inaccessible to vehicles. In 1860, the Perry Monument, a memorial to Commodore Oliver Hazard Perry's victory in the Battle of Lake Erie in the War of 1812, was dedicated in the center of Public Square. In 1892, it was moved out of the square, which by then had the fences removed after lobbying by commercial interests. Public Square is also home to the Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument, which commemorates residents of Cuyahoga County who served in the Civil War. Public Square also features a statue of Cleaveland; a statue of Tom L. Johnson, the city's most famous mayor; a large amount of shrubbery and other landscaping; and a large public fountain. The Consulate-General of Slovenia in Cleveland is in the 55 Public Square building.\n\nNotable buildings on Public Square include the Terminal Tower, home to Tower City Center, 200 Public Square - the former BP Building (renamed in 2005), as well as Key Tower, the tallest building in Ohio and one of the tallest in the United States. Public Square is also home to the historic Old Stone Church, completed in 1855. The west side of Public Square was to become the headquarters of the Cleveland Trust Company, then called Ameritrust, but the project was cancelled after Ameritrust was purchased and merged into Key Bank, leaving that side of the square open to this day, with only a surface parking lot on the site. The classic Higbee's department store building is home to the Jack Cleveland Casino, since its opening on May 14, 2012.\n\nOriginally an early residential neighborhood, The Warehouse District was built into a warehousing and shipping neighborhood during the industrial rise of Cleveland, Within the past few decades, it has been converted again back into an entertainment, dining, and residential hub. The Warehouse District is the largest downtown neighborhood by population, and continues to grow with an assortment of shops, clubs, bars, and loft condos/apartments. West Sixth Street is known as the heart of the district. Famously, the 17-story Rockefeller Building sits on the corner West Sixth and Superior Ave erected by John D. Rockefeller.\n\nRevitalization of the Historic Gateway District began in the 1990s with the Gateway complex, which included construction of Progressive Field and Rocket Mortgage FieldHouse, the homes of the MLB Cleveland Indians, NBA Cleveland Cavaliers, AFL Cleveland Gladiators, and AHL Cleveland Monsters. The Gateway complex was built on parking lots on the site of a former produce market. The baseball stadium and basketball arena are connected to Tower City Center, and RTA's rail transit system, via an enclosed walkway. The neighborhood includes retail, housing, and a large variety of restaurants.\n\nEast 4th Street is a popular restaurant and entertainment street near Progressive Field and Rocket Mortgage FieldHouse. It is home to Cleveland's House of Blues, \"Iron Chef\" Michael Symon's Lola Bistro, comedy club/restaurant Pickwick and Frolic, as well as a dozen other dining and retail storefronts. The neighborhood is home to hundreds of residents who live in the apartments and loft condominiums above the storefronts. The neighborhood also houses the Cleveland Arcade, the first indoor shopping mall in the United States.\n\nHome to the second-largest performing arts complex in the U.S., Playhouse Square Center in the Cleveland Theater District is downtown's cultural heart. The area is dominated by five historic theaters built during the 1920s -- State, Ohio, Allen, Hanna, and Palace theaters are all located in a cluster near the intersection of Euclid Avenue and E. 14th Street. Additionally, the smaller theaters include the 14th Street Theater, Kennedy's Theater, Westfield Insurance Studio Theater, Second Stage, and Helen Rosenfeld Lewis Bialosky Lab Theatre. WVIZ-TV 25 (PBS), WCPN FM 90.3 (NPR), and classical music station WCLV FM 104.9 (collectively known as \"Ideastream\") teamed up with Playhouse Square to renovate the former Playhouse Square Building, an empty office building, transforming it into One Playhouse Square, a downtown broadcast headquarters. The building is now known as the Idea Center, and includes high definition television studios, control rooms, radio studios, and performance space fronting Euclid Avenue, as well as a variety of high-tech business startups and other tenants located on the building's upper floors.\n\nResidents of the district include Cleveland Playhouse and Cleveland State University performing arts.\n\nIn spring 2014, a $16 million outdoor streetscape transformation was completed. Focusing primarily on lighting and signage, a centerpiece of a 4,600-piece LED crystal chandelier hangs over the Euclid Ave and East 14th Street intersection 24-feet off the ground. According to the Guinness Book of World Records, it is the largest outdoor chandelier in the world. Other additions include four gateway signs spanning entry points, a large 1920s-era \"Playhouse Square\" sign at East 13th Street and Euclid Ave intersection, a fire pit at Star Plaza, a 28-foot-tall digital display, and architectural lighting to show off details of the historic buildings.\n\nThe Civic Center district holds Cleveland's governmental and public buildings. The most visible structure is the Justice Center Complex, consisting of the Cleveland Police Department headquarters and Cuyahoga County Jail. Other notable structures include Cleveland City Hall,\nCuyahoga County and Cleveland Municipal Courts, Public Auditorium, Cleveland Public Library main buildings, the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, the Howard M. Metzenbaum U.S. Courthouse, and the Cleveland Metropolitan School District administration building. The Public Malls, Malls A, B, and C, also known as the Burnham Malls, hold public green space and gardens fronting the lake. The Fountain of Eternal Life, also known as the War Memorial Fountain, is centered on the Mall A. On the western edge, Willard Park is host to the controversial public art, known as the Free Stamp. On the eastern edge sits Fort Huntington Park, containing a statue of Commodore Oliver Hazard Perry commemorating the Battle of Lake Erie, a statue of Clevelander Jesse Owens, and the Cleveland Police Department memorial of officers killed in the line of duty. A major addition to the area is the $465 million Global Center for Health Innovation and Huntington Convention Center of Cleveland.\n\nCleveland's financial district, the area around East 9th street from Lake Erie south to Prospect Avenue, serves as corporate or regional home to many firms in the financial, business, legal, communications and publishing sectors of the city's economy.\n\nArchitecturally, the area is characterized by large, glass office towers built predominately in the 1950s to 1980s. The tallest is Erieview Tower at 40-stories, the centerpiece of the largely unbuilt Erieview Urban Renewal Project of the 1960s. The Galleria was added to the tower in the 1980s originally as a shopping mall, but today serves as a mix of small stores, office space, \"gardens under the glass\", radio headquarters, and a food court. The 31-story One Cleveland Center is nicknamed the \"silver chisel\" due to its distinct shape. The seat of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Cleveland, the Cathedral of St. John the Evangelist, is located at the heart of the district on E.9th. There is a large cluster of high-rise downtown housing in this area, largely concentrated in the East 12th Street area.\n\nAlexander Mann's U.S. headquarters and Medical Mutual headquarters are present here. The City Club of Cleveland is housed in the City Club Building, which is at the corner of East Ninth and Euclid.\n\nWKYC, the local NBC affiliate, has its broadcast center on Lakeside Avenue on the northern end of the district. WOIO, the CBS affiliate, and WUAB, the CW affiliate, both owned by Gray Television are housed in Reserve Square on East 12th Street. Good Karma Broadcasting houses its two stations, WWGK and WKNR, inside the Galleria at Erieview.\n\nHome to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum, Great Lakes Science Center, Cleveland Browns Stadium, Steamship William G. Mather Maritime Museum and the USS \"Cod\", North Coast Harbor is the tourist district of downtown Cleveland. The North Coast District is home to the city's port, although there are long-term plans to move the port west of the river and open up the area for housing and lakefront development. North Coast is also the former home of Cleveland Stadium. The city was once known to some as the \"Mistake on the Lake\" although this pejorative has fallen out of common use. Cleveland Stadium was torn down after the former Cleveland Browns franchise left the city in 1995, and was replaced with Cleveland Browns Stadium, which serves as the home of the reborn NFL football franchise. Cleveland Burke Lakefront Airport is located east of the Rock Hall, and serves as a commuter and business airport that reduces small aircraft traffic at the larger Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, located southwest of downtown. The district fronts Lake Erie on the north and also includes Voinovich Park and a fishing pier. Plans for the city's lakefront include adding thousands of housing units, retail shops, a marina, and other amenities to North Coast Harbor, see \"Lakefront Plan\" below.\n\nThe Campus District is a downtown Cleveland neighborhood just east of the central business district. The district is bordered by Lakeside Avenue to the north, Broadway Avenue to the south, East 17th Street to the west and East 30th Street to the east. Members of the Campus District include Cleveland State University, St. Vincent Charity Medical Center, Cuyahoga Community College and more.\n\nCleveland State University has in past years been derided as an open enrollment commuter school, but has moved to dispel that belief. The university is progressing through a master plan to raise standards, enrollment, and rebuild its fortress-like campus. CSU plans to build a college town adjacent to downtown, including new retail, restaurants and housing to serve an increase of resident students planned to be in the thousands. The university's desire to attract more traditional college students and begin to raise its stature as a research university figure into these plans a great deal, and CSU opened its second residence hall, a complete retrofit of Fenn Tower, in the fall of 2006. Over the past decade, CSU has partnered with the city and other area stakeholders to transfer technology research into startup companies and enterprises, improving the economy of the area and stimulating downtown life in the Quadrangle. As part of CSU, the Wolstein Center, formerly the CSU Convocation Center, is located in the Campus District, and serves as the home of CSU Men's Basketball and various concerts and special events throughout the year.\n\nThe Cuyahoga River splits The Flats in half where the two sides are referred to appropriately as the East Bank of the Flats and the West Bank of the Flats. While the East Bank of the Flats was once the popular nightlife district in Ohio, its demise in the early 2000s spurred a complete redevelopment where a majority of the existing buildings were demolished. In its place, an 8-story Aloft Hotel and a 21-story office tower were built. Restaurants, apartments, and a riverside promenade are planned for Phase II of this mixed-use project. The West Bank of the Flats contains the majority of the district's residential population, primary stemming from a set of apartments and condos known as Stonebridge. The areas also boasts bars, restaurants, jet ski rental, strip clubs, and, most recently, the home of the Greater Cleveland Aquarium.\n\nHistorically significant, the Flats were the place Moses Cleaveland first landed when he founded the city. It was also the location of some of the earliest populations of Cleveland. Throughout much of Cleveland history, it became almost entirely industrial. By the 1980s, it had become the famous nightlife area that lasted until the early 2000s. The current state of the Flats is in mixed-use redevelopment.\nThe $197 million Euclid Corridor Transportation Project connected downtown, Midtown, and University Circle by introducing bus rapid transit (BRT) to the city in the form of the HealthLine. The project involved a total reconstruction of Euclid Avenue from Public Square to beyond University Circle (located approximately east of downtown), and included bus-only lanes with center-median station boarding, priority signaling, and fast commute times. In addition to transit and road improvements, the transportation project also invested heavily in the Euclid Avenue streetscape, rebuilding the street from storefront to storefront, removing old vaults and streetcar tracks, and building new sidewalks, lighting, and landscaping.\n\nThe project included a large public arts component, with different areas of the Euclid Corridor route being addressed by local and national artists. The project is expected to spur investments in residential, retail, office, and mixed-use redevelopments, including over 4,000 residential units along the corridor. In addition to the BRT line, the Downtown Cleveland Alliance funded a study on retail feasibility on the avenue, focusing on the area between CSU and Public Square.\n\nA $465 million Global Center for Health Innovation, previously known as the Medical Mart, and Cleveland Convention Center opened in the summer of 2013. The 1.1-million-square-foot campus consists of a 235,000-square-foot Global Center for Health Innovation and a 750,000-square-foot Convention Center. The LEED Silver-certified Convention Center includes a 225,928-square-foot exhibit hall divisible into three halls, as well as 46,166 square feet of total ballroom space, made up of three grand ballrooms totaling 32,193 square feet and two junior ballrooms totaling 10,937 square feet. Views of Lake Erie from a 9,520-square-foot patio completes the northern border of the complex. The project was funded by a 0.25 percent increase in Cuyahoga County sales tax. Permanent tenants include Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society, Philips Healthcare, GE Healthcare, Johnson Controls, the Cleveland Clinic, and University Hospitals.\n\nA multiphase, $500 million mixed-use redevelopment along the East Bank of the Flats is being developed and financed by the Wolstein Group and Fairmount Properties.\n\nOpening in June 2013, the $275 million first phase included a 23-story office tower, 8-story Aloft hotel, restaurants, and a 16,000 sq. ft. health club, The office tower has been named the \"Ernst and Young building.\" The two anchor tenants include the law firm Tucker Ellis and West, and the largest tenant, Ernst and Young. The 450,000 sq. ft. office tower is all Class A office space and features a green, open-air rooftop terrace. The initial opening restaurants and bars included Ken Stewart's, Lago, Flip Side and Wileyville.\n\nTwo Waterfront Line Rapid stations, Settlers Landing station and Main Avenue station received $375,000 upgrades. Work at both stations includes replacing brick and concrete pavers, repairing the glass shelters, and demolishing ticket booths. At Settlers Landing, crews will restore eight etched glass panels that act as wind screens. The artwork depicts scenes of Cleveland's settlement and the evolution of transportation.\n\nSeveral Restaurants (Alley Cat, Crop East Bank), bars (Beerheads, Punch Bowl Social), 1200-foot boardwalk, and 243 Apartments opened as a part of Phase 2 in 2015.\n\nA $33 million Greater Cleveland Aquarium opened on Jan 21, 2012, located at the FirstEnergy Powerhouse as the only freestanding aquarium in the state of Ohio. The aquarium takes up 70,000 square feet in the powerhouse's basement and contains over a million gallons of water in 42 tanks. The main feature of the aquarium is Marinescape’s Seatube®, a 145-foot-long clear tunnel, known as a Seatube. The attraction was constructed around the building's architectural characteristics—including its smokestacks, columns and narrow hallways. Developers were not allowed to modify the structure or paint some walls because the old complex is on the National Register of Historic Places. The Greater Cleveland Aquarium was the first in the United States by New Zealand-based developer Marinescape NZ Ltd., who has built more than 20 aquariums in Europe, Asia, and Australia.\n\nJacobs Pavilion at Nautica is a 5000-seat outdoor amphitheater. In 2012, it underwent in $1 million upgrade that included a new entrance constructed 200 feet north of the old one, creating space for an expanded riverfront plaza. Other upgrades included new brick pavement for the plaza and new fencing.\n\nIn the fall of 2010, the Trust for Public Land and the Cleveland Rowing Foundation successfully purchased seven acres of commercial riverfront land for $3.2 million. The partnership is converting the vacant concrete-covered site into Rivergate Park, a new recreational center in the Flats. Officially opened in May 2011, the park preserves public access to the Cuyahoga River for access to activities including kayaking, canoeing, rowing and dragon boating. Long term plans include a canoe/kayak launch facility, concessions, and public restrooms. Cleveland Metroparks will replace the concrete and gravel on their land and replace it with grass, trees and other park amenities.\n\nCleveland’s Crooked River Skate Park will be built on 15,000 square feet of city owned land. It is located along the river and adjacent to the Cleveland Metroparks new Rivergate Park. The total cost is projected to be $758,000. Groundbreaking will occur in 2013.\n\nCleveland State University campus continues to undergo a $500 million expansion. Recently completed projects include a new Student Center ($55 million),\nEuclid Commons Dorms (5 buildings costing $60 million),\n\n\"College Town\" (373 new residential units), Middough Building ($20 million)\nand College of Education and Human Services Building ($37 million),\n\nUpcoming projects include converting the Mather Mansion into a boutique hotel and the construction of a $45 million Center for Innovation in Health Professions.\n\nOne block north of campus along Chester Ave, the privately developed Langston Apartments will add over 300 apartments units. The $54 million project opened Phase I in 2012, with Phase II opening in 2013.\n\nRelocation of the Cuyahoga County Administrative Headquarters, being developed by Geis Company, is spurring a $200 million mixed-use development at the corner of Euclid Avenue and East Ninth Street. The properties involved include the 29-story Ameritrust Tower, the attached 1010 Euclid Avenue building, the historic Cleveland Trust Company Building, and the so-called \"P and H\" buildings, located on the Prospect Avenue side of the complex. Additionally, two parking garages on the south side of Prospect Ave along East Ninth Street will anchor the parking aspect.\n\nThe P and H buildings will be razed and the site will become the home of a new, eight-story Cuyahoga County headquarters building, in which the county will lease for 26 years. Building size is expected to be 220,000 square feet.\n\nThe plan calls for creating 210 high-end apartments in the former office tower and part of the building at 1010 Euclid, although portions of the building will be retained as office space in case the county needs to expand in the future. A proposed hotel on the lower floors of the 29-story tower is being considered. The Cleveland Trust Company Rotunda and 1010 Euclid Ave ground floor will house a full-service Heinen's grocery store set to open Fall 2014. In November, 2015, another prominent Northeast Ohio retailer, Geiger's, opened a new store just east of Heinen's in the former Truman Building, now known as the Ivory.\n\nDowntown Cleveland had the largest percent population growth in the 2010 Census for the entire city of Cleveland. Conversion of old office space into residential is causing the population to continue to climb, along with some new construction.\n\nAdded in 2012 were the Avenue District Luxury Apartments (59 apartments)\n\nCompleted for 2013 included the Langston Apartments (318 apartments), Rosetta Center Building (85 apartments), Hanna Annex Apartments (102 apartments), Embassy Suites hotel into residential at Reserve Square (232 apartments), and 1120 Chester Ave (36 apartments)—totaling 725 new units.\n\nUnder construction and in the pipeline for 2014-2016 are the Truman Building at 1030 Euclid (26 apartments), Park Building and Southworth Building (34 apartments), Schofield Building (55 apartments), 28-story Ameritrust Tower (215 apartments), Flats East Bank Phase II Residential (243 apartments), East Ohio Gas Building at 1717 East Ninth St (223 apartments), 1224 Huron Rd (9 apartments), and 1220 Huron Rd (80 apartments), May Company Building (350 apartments), MT Silver (39 apartments), 1750 Euclid Ave (217 apartments), Lincoln Building (17 apartments), Garfield Building (170 apartments), and the Worthington Company Warehouse (70 apartments, 13 condominiums), —totaling over 1500 additional new units.\n\nLocated in the east bank of the Flats, the 150-room Aloft Hotel by Starwood Properties opened in the summer 2013. The hotel is part of a $500 million mixed-used project known as the \"Flats East Bank\". A $64 million renovation and new branding of the 484-room Westin Hotel was completed Spring 2014.\n\nThe 600-room Hilton Cleveland Downtown Hotel convention center hotel opened in June 2016. A $272 million project, the new construction of a 28-story tower atop a 4-story podium sits along the Mall next door to the Global Center for Health Innovation. Marriott is incorporating a 156-room Autograph Collection brand into the Ameritrust complex mixed-use design with an expected completion of 2015. Also expected to open 2015 and 2016 are the Schofield Building into a 122-room Kimpton hotel and the John Hartness Brown Building into a 206-room Le Meridien\n\nThe old Cleveland Municipal School District headquarters, built in the 1930s by Cleveland architectural firm Walker and Weeks, is being converted into a 175 to 180-room hotel by Drury Southwest Incorporated. The expected brand name is to be Drury Plaza with a projected 2016 completion date. Without a given timeframe, proposed is the Cleveland Athletic Club building conversion into a Crowne Plaza hotel.\n\nThe lakefront continually sees city proposals for expansion and construction, but no major construction has occurred since the late 1990s, besides the $17 million Coast Guard administrative building that opened in 2012.\n\nTwo projects set to begin in 2013 or early 2014 include a 53-ship marina along the East Ninth Street pier and a $5.5 million Miguel Rosales-designed pedestrian bridge. Geis Cos. is proposing an office park on 20 acres of city-owned property south and west of Burke Lakefront Airport. In the public-private partnership, Geis has a one-year lease on the land that expires September 2013 as the deadline to solidify plans. Building code height restrictions are in place due to the close proximity to an airport.\n\nCleveland's most recent Downtown Cleveland Lakefront Plan, released April 2012, is a mixed-use development between West 3rd and East 18th streets defining focus on three geographic areas. North Coast Harbor infill development proposes new commercial development along arcades and walkways connecting Cleveland Browns Stadium, Great Lakes Science Center, and Rock and Roll Hall of Fame with the Global Center for Health Innovation and Convention Center. \"Harbor West\" is to be a new mixed-use development between Erieside Avenue and the water’s edge north of Cleveland Browns Stadium, known as FirstEnergy Stadium, and the Great Lakes Science Center. Burke Development District proposes a self-contained office campus between East 9th and East 18th Streets south and west of Burke Lakefront Airport.\n\n"}
{"id": "2284940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284940", "title": "Buhi", "text": "Buhi\n\nBuhi can mean:\n"}
{"id": "2284944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284944", "title": "Lake Samish", "text": "Lake Samish\n\nLake Samish is a lake south of Bellingham, Washington.\n\nVisible to the west of Interstate 5 when travelling between Alger and Bellingham, Lake Samish is heavily used for recreation in the summer months by local residents. The lake shoreline is heavily developed and homesites cover almost the entire shoreline. Lake Samish is bordered on the south by Blanchard Mountain and on the north by Chuckanut Pass. Public access is limited but a Whatcom County park with a rough boat launch is located along the northern shore.\n\nIn pre-colonial days, members of the Samish tribe lived at sites on the lake. In 1873 the Northern Pacific Railway Company made a preliminary survey through the Lake Samish valley on the way to Bellingham Bay and Hudson's Bay Company trappers had also probably been through the area before that but the first Europeans to settle at Lake Samish were Charlie Barns and William Harris, who staked claims to 160 acres each in March/April 1885, Barns on the east side and Harris on the west side of the lake. In 1931, a new highway connecting Seattle to Vancouver was constructed on the east side of the lake and designated part of U.S. Route 99. This road was later replaced by Interstate 5.\n\nNotable residents include Hilary Swank, who grew up on a trailer park next to the lake, and Ryan Stiles, who lives next to the lake.\n\n"}
{"id": "2284945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284945", "title": "Sunninghill Park", "text": "Sunninghill Park\n\nSunninghill Park was a country house and estate of about directly north of Cheapside, in the civil parishes of Sunninghill and Ascot and Winkfield, adjoining Windsor Great Park in the English county of Berkshire. \n\nThe early 19th-century house burned down in 1947 and a replacement was built in the grounds during the final years of the 1980s to be the official residence of the Duke of York from 1990 until 2004; it was sold in 2007. The house fell into disrepair and was demolished in 2016.\n\nSunninghill Park was originally part of Windsor Forest until 1630, when King Charles I granted it to Thomas Carey. Around 1633, it was purchased by Sir Thomas Draper and sold in 1769 by his great grandson, Thomas Draper Baber, to Jeremiah Crutchley, whose family owned it until it was sold in 1936 by Percy Edward Crutchley (whose maternal grandparents were the owners of Eldon House in London, Ontario). The first significant house was built on the estate in the late Georgian period in the early 19th century, being a stucco building of two stories with later additions.\n\nIt served as the headquarters of the American Ninth Air Force from November 1943 to September 1944. The Crown Estate Commissioners purchased the property from Philip Hill in 1945. The main house was to be occupied by Princess Elizabeth (later Queen Elizabeth II) and her future husband, Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, after their wedding in November 1947. However, the house burned down on 30 August 1947 before their wedding, so they rented Windlesham Moor instead. In the mid-1960s, the site was considered for a new home for Princess Margaret.\n\nIn 1986, the walled garden of was purchased from the Crown Estate Commissioners on behalf of Queen Elizabeth II. The following year, construction began on a two-storey red brick house to be the home of the Duke and Duchess of York. The architect responsible was Sir James Dunbar-Nasmith, Balmoral Estate Architect and Professor at Heriot-Watt University. Construction was completed in 1990.\n\nThe house had six reception rooms, 12 bedrooms, and 12 bathrooms, comparable in size to most larger UK instances built since World War II. It was the first newly built royal home since Bagshot Park, which was built in 1879 for the Duke of Connaught. In the British tabloid press, the home was often referred to as 'SouthYork', a play on words for the 'Southfork' estate on the popular 1980s soap opera \"Dallas\"'. It was also \"mocked for its resemblance to a Tesco-style supermarket\".\n\nFollowing the death of Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother in 2002, it was announced that the Duke of York was to be designated her former home Royal Lodge, Windsor instead. The Duke of York and his former wife shared the family's home until 2004, when he moved to the Royal Lodge, the refurbishment of which was funded by taking out a mortgage on Sunninghill Park. The Duchess of York moved out in 2006. \n\nIts legal title records that the house and some of its grounds were sold for £15 million in 2007, £3 million over the asking price, to an offshore trust in the British Virgin Islands. Kenes Rakishev, a 29-year-old Kazakh businessman who called himself a 'friend' of Prince Andrew, professed to have negotiating the deal with the help of his father-in-law Imangali Tasmagambetov, the mayor of Astana, but insisted neither of them was the owner. Later, the owner was revealed to be Timur Kulibayev, the billionaire son-in-law of the Kazakh president, Nursultan Nazarbayev. Kulibayev acknowledged ownership after a newspaper investigation revealed he had used offshore companies and a trust to make the purchase. \n\nThe house fell into an increasing state of disrepair. By 2009, it had \"doors hanging open, weeds sprouting through the terrace paving, windows broken, grass growing through the cover over the empty swimming pool, peeling paintwork and a general air of dereliction.\" In July 2009, Bracknell Forest Borough Council were said to be considering seizing the property under the Housing Act 2004 and using it as a homeless shelter, following several reported break-ins. In 2013 the owner was granted planning permission to demolish it and replace it with a larger house, and in 2014, photos showed the former royal home appeared to be seriously dilapidated. Demolition was temporarily halted when more than 100 bats were found roosting under its roof, before its actual demolition.\n\n"}
{"id": "2284959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284959", "title": "Dee Carstensen", "text": "Dee Carstensen\n\nDee Carstensen is a New York City-based alternative music singer-songwriter and harpist.\n\nCarstensen's singing and songwriting talents were discovered by vibist Mike Mainieri, with whom she is married. Her debut album \"Beloved One\", released in 1993, included guitar work by Mark Knopfler of Dire Straits.\n\nHer second album, \"Regarding the Soul\" (1995), integrated her singing, songwriting and harp-playing. \"The Map\" (1998) was a collaboration with Mainieri. Their first child, Ruby Anna, was born on November 19, 2000.\n\nDee also recorded a children's album, \"Can You Hear Lullaby\" (2001), which featured guest vocals Everett Bradley, Curtis King and Julie Dansky and instrumental work by her husband.\n\nDee went back into the studio and recorded a solo album, \"Patch of Blue\", which was released in 2005. Unlike previous work, all eight songs were originals, except \"Fly Away\" whose music was co-written with her husband, who played vibraphone on the album. \"Patch of Blue\" did not include any guitar work. Instead, it featured Dee's harp and vocals, with backing from the Tosca String Quartet and several woodwind players.\n\nDee was the first pop singer to participate in the Lyon & Healy Jazz and Pop Harp Festival (1999), sharing the stage with jazz harpists Park Stickney and Deborah Henson-Conant. Dee plays a Lyon & Healy electric harp in her recordings and live performances. Her incorporation of harp in singer-songwriter and pop music also influenced the new generation of young singer-songwriter-harpists, such as Joanna Newsom and Habiba Doorenbos.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284967", "title": "Nabua, Fiji", "text": "Nabua, Fiji\n\nNabua is a suburb of the Fijian capital of Suva. The Queen Elizabeth Barracks, a major military base which saw a mutiny on 2 November 2000, is located there.\n\nNabua was established in 1935 by the late Ratu Sir Josefa Vanayaliyali Sukuna after the great Tsunami heat in Suva. It was mainly populated by Indigenous Fijian Community.\n\n"}
{"id": "2284969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284969", "title": "Charles Deering", "text": "Charles Deering\n\nCharles Deering (July 31, 1852 – February 5, 1927) was an American businessman, art collector, and philanthropist. He was an executive of the agricultural machinery company founded by his father that became International Harvester. Charles's successful stewardship of the family firm left him with the means and leisure to indulge his interests in the arts and natural sciences. His activities and benefactions in the US were centered on Chicago and Miami; he also aspired to found an art museum in Spain.\n\nDeering was born July 31, 1852, in South Paris, Maine, the son of Abby Reed Barbour and William Deering. His father was a successful businessman then engaged real estate speculation and in the manufacture and sale of woolens. In 1856, Charles's mother died, and, the following year, his father married Clara Barbour Cummings Hamilton, a cousin of his late wife. The two children of this marriage were James Deering (1859–1925) and Abby Marion Deering (later Mrs Richard Flint Howe). Charles remained close to his half-brother and sister throughout his life.\n\nCharles attended Kents Hill School, graduating in June 1869. At first, he set his sights on a career in the Navy. Obtaining a midshipman's warrant, he entered the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, where he graduated second in the class of 1873. He served as a naval officer until 1881, when he resigned in order to join his father's company. Naval service shaped Deering by exposing him to the cultures of Europe and Asia. He supplemented these experiences with extensive personal travel, developing cosmopolitan tastes, a cosmopolitan outlook, and a particular affinity with the arts of Spain. While still in the Navy, Charles met and married Ana Rogers Case, the daughter of Rear Admiral Augustus Ludlow Case; the couple wed in 1875 in Newport, Rhode Island. Ana Deering died October 31, 1876, shortly after giving birth to a son, Charles Case Deering (1876–1924).\n\nDeering was a gifted amateur artist, and while still in the Navy he used his free time to become acquainted with leading artists and to visit the world's great art galleries. He began a lifelong habit of collecting art, both by acknowledged masters and contemporaries. In 1876, he met the painter John Singer Sargent, who became a close friend. Other artist-friends included sculptor Augustus St. Gaudens, the Swedish artist Anders Zorn, and Catalan artist Ramon Casas i Carbo. In 1893, Deering took time off from his other duties to study painting in Paris under Zorn for an entire season. Throughout his life, Deering enthusiastically supported and championed the work of many living artists while also avidly purchasing hundreds of older, more obscure works along with many acknowledged masterpieces.\n\nBy 1881, William Deering's business activities had shifted to Illinois, where some earlier investments had led to his founding the Deering Harvester Company. As it grew, he enlisted both his sons in running the company. Charles moved to Chicago, taking up permanent residence in Evanston and becoming the company's secretary. His father retired in 1901. In 1902, J. P. Morgan financed a deal that combined Deering Harvester and the company founded by Cyrus McCormick, along with several others, to form the International Harvester Company. Charles Deering became chairman of the board of the newly created company. He served in this capacity until 1910, when he retired.\n\nDeering devoted the rest of his life to art collecting and to the creation of several estates in the United States and Europe. Deering dreamed of creating an art center in Spain, and in 1910 he had the \"Palau Maricel\" built with the help of the artist Miquel Utrillo i Morlius in Sitges, a town just south of Barcelona. The building was connected by a bridge across the lane to a second building he purchased, which now houses the \"Museu Maricel\". A portrait of him by Catalan artist Ramon Casas i Carbó can be seen in the museum, which is open to visitors. The \"Palau Maricel\" is also open to visitors, but only in the summer. Deering's hope was that the complex would become a magnet for artists and artistic life, where people of many nations would come to make art and study. In addition, Deering's own large and many-sided collection of Spanish art and decorative objects would be on display. In the end, however, Deering abandoned much of this plan. Instead, much of his collection was given to the Art Institute of Chicago, while other works were transferred to his estate at Cutler, Florida.\n\nBeginning around 1890, the William Deerings began wintering in Florida, first around St. Augustine, and later in the vicinity of Miami. Visiting them, both Charles and his half-brother became deeply interested in South Florida. Around 1908, Charles purchased some 212 acres of land in Buena Vista. In 1910, he hired Clinton Mackenzie to design a Spanish-style villa for the property. He hired the great Chicago landscape architect Ossian Cole Simonds to lay out the grounds. Here he supported the New York Botanical Garden by providing them 25 acres to grow cacti. Around this time, Deering made the acquaintance of botanist David Fairchild and allowed the US Department of Agriculture to establish an experimental station on 25 acres of his property. Deering became an avid naturalist and preservationist. The book \"Ornamental Gardening in Florida\" by Charles Simpson is dedicated to him.\n\nDeering correctly foresaw that development would soon engulf the Buena Vista property, and by 1913 he had begun buying land further down on the coast, along Old Cutler Road. By 1915, he had acquired several hundred acres near Cutler and moved his winter quarters there permanently. His Buena Vista estate was broken up by developers during the land boom of 1925. Deering built a fine stone house on his second property. Now named the Charles Deering Estate, it is open to the public as a museum and nature preserve. Meanwhile, his brother James built an estate, Villa Vizcaya, on Biscayne Bay in Coconut Grove.\n\nCharles Deering was also a member of the famous Jekyll Island Club (aka The Millionaires Club) on Jekyll Island, Georgia.\n\nIn 1883, Deering had married Marion Dennison Whipple, the daughter of Major General William Dennison Whipple. The Deerings had three children: Roger, Marion, and Barbara (later Mrs. Richard Ely Danielson).\n\nOn July 6, 1914, Deering's daughter Marion (1887–1965) married Chauncey McCormick in Paris over his objections. After a civil ceremony, a religious rite was held at James Deering's Paris residence. Mrs. McCormick became a patron of art in Chicago and \"one of the nation's richest women\". Her son Brooks McCormick (1917–2006) was the last family member to head International Harvester.\n\nCharles Deering died February 5, 1927, in Miami. In 1930, construction began on the Charles Deering Library at Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois. Funding was provided primarily through donations made by the Deering, McCormick, and Danielson families. Dedicated in 1933, it served as Northwestern's primary library until 1970, when an adjacent library was constructed. The Deering Library now houses certain special collections of the Northwestern University Library, along with art, music, government information, maps, and the University Archives. Deering's son Roger (1884–1936) also was an art patron and benefactor to Northwestern. \n\n"}
{"id": "2284974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284974", "title": "Dead Lovers' Sarabande (Face One)", "text": "Dead Lovers' Sarabande (Face One)\n\nDead Lovers' Sarabande (Face One) is the fourth album by darkwave band Sopor Aeternus & the Ensemble of Shadows, and was released in 1999. It is the first concept album by the band, and the first of a two-album suite detailing the mourning of a lover who has recently passed. \"(Face One)\" was also the first Sopor Aeternus album to be released in multiple formats, including a double vinyl edition and an A5-sized boxed set edition; both were limited pressings, of 500 and 3,000 copies, respectively. It was also the first to be promoted with an accompanying video.\n\n\"Dead Lovers' Sarabande\", as a whole, is a transitory death suite detailing the unnamed protagonist's mourning of her lover and her desire to rejoin him in the afterlife. Major recurring themes in the work include loneliness and the dreadful feeling of loss when someone dear dies. The story of the first part centers around Cantodea assisting her husband in committing suicide; although he is said to be suffering, the exact cause is not mentioned. In \"Hades \"Pluton\"\", she attempts to make a deal with otherworldly beings in order to recover her husband but refuses it eventually. Anna-Varney Cantodea later admitted that \"Dead Lovers' Sarabande\" was dedicated to, but not about, the late Rozz Williams, former frontman of deathrock band Christian Death.\n\nMusically, a shift was made towards folk music and chamber pieces, with more prominent passages for string instruments. For the first time, live brass and woodwinds players were used instead of synthesized instruments; the leap to organic strings occurred on \"The inexperienced Spiral Traveller.\" Whereas previous albums contained some wall of sound production techniques, \"(Face One)\" was more intimate and featured minimalist arrangements. Songs also became more drone-like, with the use of pedal tones and repeated melodies carried across several instruments; this is most notable on opener \"Across the Bridge\" and the album's longest piece, \"The Sleeper\". \"Hades \"Pluton\"\" is based on the rhythm of the Roky Erickson song, \"Night of the Vampire\". \n\n\"Dead Lovers' Sarabande\" (Face One) was re-released on CD with newly packaged artwork in 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "2284977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284977", "title": "Mohammad Ali Jinnah University", "text": "Mohammad Ali Jinnah University\n\nThe Mohammad Ali Jinnah University () (, abbreviated as MAJU) is a private university located in Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan.\n\nEstablished in 1998, the university offers undergraduate and post-graduate programs with a strong emphasis on business management, applied sciences, engineering and computer science. Ranked number one university in general category by Higher Education Commission (Pakistan). In addition, the university is a member of the Association of Commonwealth Universities of the United Kingdom.\n\nThe university operated an additional campus in Islamabad, but it changed into Capital University of Science & Technology (CUST) in 2015. Now CUST is separate from MAJU, Karachi and under the MAJU Trust.\n\nThe Punjab Group of Colleges has been serving the community with education since 1985.\n\nAs a tribute to the father of the Nation, the group named an ambitious project Mohammad Ali Jinnah University. Mohammad Ali Jinnah University was granted its charter by the government of Sindh in 1998. The Islamabad campus was established after obtaining an NOC from UGC, dated 17 August 1998 and dated 29 November 2001 and NOC from HEC dated 27 September 2003. (now become a separate university CUST Islamabad)\n\nMAJU has departments of Computer Science, Bioinformatics and Biosciences, Mathematics in the Faculty of Computing; in the Faculty of Business Administration and Social Sciences, there are departments of Business Administration, Economics and Social Sciences.\n\nIn addition to pure academic programs, MAJU runs training programs, seminars and workshops. The university has started doctoral programs in Computer Sciences, Electrical Engineering and Management Sciences.\n\nA project of Punjab Group of Colleges. Research is another area of prime importance at MAJU. Research and Development are the crucial tools that countries use to transform their developing economies into developed nations. With advanced degree programs in Banking and Finance, Computer Science and Management Information Systems, we are preparing young men and women to meet the challenges of the new millennium.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2284988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2284988", "title": "Gatcombe Park", "text": "Gatcombe Park\n\nGatcombe Park is the country residence of Anne, Princess Royal between the villages of Minchinhampton and Avening in Gloucestershire, England. Built in the late 18th century to the designs of George Basevi, it is a Grade II* listed building. It is a royal residence as it is home to the Princess Royal, and is privately owned. Parts of the grounds open for events, including horse trials and craft fairs.\n\nGatcombe Park is between the villages of Minchinhampton and Avening in the county of Gloucestershire in South West England. Highgrove House, the country residence of Anne's brother, Charles, Prince of Wales, is centred six miles away in the parish of Doughton, near Tetbury. The first cousin of their mother, HM The Queen, Prince Michael of Kent, owned nearby Nether Lypiatt Manor for 26 years from 1980.\n\nThe manors of Minchinhampton and Avening formed the basis of the later Gatcombe Park estate. After the Dissolution they were granted to Lord Windsor, whose family sold mostly undeveloped land by that date comprising them to Philip Sheppard in 1656.\n\nThe core hillside land of the former estates, which was chiefly within the parish bounds of Gatcombe, was left in the will of Samuel Sheppard, who died in 1770, to his brother Edward.\n\nAccordingly, a new manor house was built from 1771 to 1774 for Edward Sheppard, a local clothier. The house and estate were purchased in 1814 by the successful speculator and theoretical economist David Ricardo, MP, and altered to the designs of George Basevi (a relation), c. 1820. It features Bath stone construction, and comprises five main bedrooms, four secondary bedrooms, four reception rooms, a library, a billiard room and a conservatory; staff accommodation and its steep-sloping grounds are a separately listed (Grade II) parkland.\n\nThe house and home farm were bought by Queen Elizabeth II in 1976 for Princess Anne and Captain Mark Phillips; the price was not disclosed but is believed to have been between £500,000 and £750,000. The previous owner was Lord Butler of Saffron Walden, Master of Trinity College, Cambridge, and a former Home Secretary, who had inherited the house from his father-in-law, the art collector Samuel Courtauld. Courtauld had acquired it from the Ricardo family in 1940.\n\nThe Crown paid for the renovation and redecoration of the house for Princess Anne and Captain Phillips, who moved into it in November 1977. In 1978 the owners' land was increased by the purchase of Aston Farm to the east. While Princess Anne's first marriage subsisted, the property thus covered approximately , of which the bulk of its of woodland was part of the park land, including a lake containing brown trout. These properties had extensive stabling for horses, including a new stable block, and the underlying land of an airstrip is within the ownership of Aston Farm.\n\nThe estate was divided when the Princess Royal and Mark Phillips were divorced, and today the princess lives at Gatcombe Park with her second husband, Sir Timothy Laurence. After the divorce, for some years Mark Phillips lived at Aston Farm with his second wife; but he later moved to America. Their children Peter and Zara Phillips each had a cottage on the estate until they got married. , Peter and his wife, Autumn, were living in London. Zara and her husband, Mike Tindall, at first lived in Cheltenham after they were married in 2011, but in January 2013 they sold their house and came to live on the Gatcombe estate.\n\nThe grounds of Gatcombe Park are well known in the eventing world for hosting the Festival of British Eventing every year, over the first weekend in August. Organised by Mark Phillips, with considerable input from Princess Anne, the event attracts the world's top equestrian Olympians and over 40,000 paying spectators, as well as BBC television coverage. Two smaller horse trials, in the spring and autumn, also take place on the estate, with courses designed by Princess Anne, and there is a biannual craft fair, with around 160 exhibitors, in May and October.\n"}
{"id": "2285000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2285000", "title": "Proj construction", "text": "Proj construction\n\nIn algebraic geometry, Proj is a construction analogous to the spectrum-of-a-ring construction of affine schemes, which produces objects with the typical properties of projective spaces and projective varieties. The construction, while not functorial, is a fundamental tool in scheme theory.\n\nIn this article, all rings will be assumed to be commutative and with identity.\n\nLet \"S\" be a graded ring, where formula_1 is the direct sum decomposition associated with the gradation. The irrelevant ideal of \"S\" is the ideal of elements of positive degree formula_2.\n\nWe say an ideal is homogeneous if it is generated by homogeneous elements. Then, as a set,\nFor brevity we will sometimes write \"X\" for formula_4.\n\nWe may define a topology, called the Zariski topology, on formula_4 by defining the closed sets to be those of the form\n\nwhere \"a\" is a homogeneous ideal of \"S\". As in the case of affine schemes it is quickly verified that the \"V\"(\"a\") form the closed sets of a topology on \"X\".\n\nIndeed, if formula_7 are a family of ideals, then we have \nformula_8 and if the indexing set \"I\" is finite, then\nformula_9.\n\nEquivalently, we may take the open sets as a starting point and define\n\nA common shorthand is to denote \"D\"(\"Sf\") by \"D\"(\"f\"), where \"Sf\" is the ideal generated by \"f\". For any ideal \"a\", the sets \"D\"(\"a\") and \"V\"(\"a\") are complementary, and hence the same proof as before shows that the sets \"D\"(\"a\") form a topology on formula_4. The advantage of this approach is that the sets \"D\"(\"f\"), where \"f\" ranges over all homogeneous elements of the ring \"S\", form a base for this topology, which is an indispensable tool for the analysis of formula_4, just as the analogous fact for the spectrum of a ring is likewise indispensable.\n\nWe also construct a sheaf on formula_4, called the “structure sheaf” as in the affine case, which makes it into a scheme. As in the case of the Spec construction there are many ways to proceed: the most direct one, which is also highly suggestive of the construction of regular functions on a projective variety in classical algebraic geometry, is the following. For any open set \"U\" of formula_4 (which is by definition a set of homogeneous prime ideals of \"S\" not containing formula_15) we define the ring formula_16 to be the set of all functions\n\n(where formula_18 denotes the subring of the ring of fractions formula_19 consisting of fractions of homogeneous elements of the same degree) such that for each prime ideal \"p\" of \"U\":\n\n\nIt follows immediately from the definition that the formula_16 form a sheaf of rings formula_22 on formula_4, and it may be shown that the pair (formula_4, formula_22) is in fact a scheme (this is accomplished by showing that each of the open subsets \"D(f)\" is in fact an affine scheme).\n\nThe essential property of \"S\" for the above construction was the ability to form localizations formula_18 for each prime ideal \"p\" of \"S\". This property is also possessed by any graded module \"M\" over \"S\", and therefore with the appropriate minor modifications the preceding section constructs for any such \"M\" a sheaf, denoted formula_27, of formula_22-modules on formula_4. This sheaf is quasicoherent by construction. If \"S\" is generated by finitely many elements of degree 1 (e.g. a polynomial ring or a homogenous quotient of it), all quasicoherent sheaves on formula_4 arise from graded modules by this construction. The corresponding graded module is not unique.\n\nA special case of the sheaf associated to a graded module is when we take \"M\" to be \"S\" itself with a different grading: namely, we let the degree \"d\" elements of \"M\" be the degree (\"d\" + 1) elements of \"S\", and denote \"M\" = \"S\"(1). We then obtain formula_27 as a quasicoherent sheaf on formula_4, denoted formula_33 or simply \"O\"(1), called the twisting sheaf of Serre. It can be checked that \"O\"(1) is in fact an invertible sheaf.\n\nOne reason for the utility of \"O\"(1) is that it recovers the algebraic information of \"S\" that was lost when, in the construction of formula_22, we passed to fractions of degree zero. In the case Spec \"A\" for a ring \"A\", the global sections of the structure sheaf form \"A\" itself, whereas the global sections of formula_22 here form only the degree-zero elements of \"S\". If we define\n\nthen each \"O\"(\"n\") contains the degree-\"n\" information about \"S\", and taken together they contain all the grading information that was lost. Likewise, for any sheaf of graded formula_22-modules \"N\" we define\n\nand expect this “twisted” sheaf to contain grading information about \"N\". In particular, if \"N\" is the sheaf associated to a graded \"S\"-module \"M\" we likewise expect it to contain lost grading information about \"M\". This suggests, though erroneously, that \"S\" can in fact be reconstructed from these sheaves; however, this is true in the case that \"S\" is a polynomial ring, below. This situation is to be contrasted with the fact that the spec functor is adjoint to the global sections functor in the category of locally ringed spaces.\n\nIf \"A\" is a ring, we define projective \"n\"-space over \"A\" to be the scheme\n\nThe grading on the polynomial ring formula_40 is defined by letting each formula_41 have degree one and every element of \"A\", degree zero. Comparing this to the definition of \"O\"(1), above, we see that the sections of \"O\"(1) are in fact linear homogeneous polynomials, generated by the formula_42 themselves. This suggests another interpretation of \"O\"(1), namely as the sheaf of “coordinates” for formula_4, since the formula_42 are literally the coordinates for projective \"n\"-space.\n\n\nA generalization of the Proj construction replaces the ring \"S\" with a sheaf of algebras and produces, as the end result, a scheme which might be thought of as a fibration of Proj's of rings. This construction is often used, for example, to construct projective space bundles over a base scheme.\n\nFormally, let \"X\" be any scheme and \"S\" be a sheaf of graded formula_22-algebras (the definition of which is similar to the definition of formula_22-modules on a locally ringed space): that is, a sheaf with a direct sum decomposition\n\nwhere each formula_65 is an formula_22-module such that for every open subset \"U\" of \"X\", \"S\"(\"U\") is an formula_16-algebra and the resulting direct sum decomposition\n\nis a grading of this algebra as a ring. Here we assume that formula_69. We make the additional assumption that \"S\" is a quasi-coherent sheaf; this is a “consistency” assumption on the sections over different open sets that is necessary for the construction to proceed.\n\nIn this setup we may construct a scheme formula_70 and a “projection” map \"p\" onto \"X\" such that for every open affine \"U\" of \"X\",\n\nThis definition suggests that we construct formula_70 by first defining schemes formula_73 for each open affine \"U\", by setting\n\nand maps formula_75, and then showing that these data can be glued together “over” each intersection of two open affines \"U\" and \"V\" to form a scheme \"Y\" which we define to be formula_70. It is not hard to show that defining each formula_77 to be the map corresponding to the inclusion of formula_16 into \"S\"(\"U\") as the elements of degree zero yields the necessary consistency of the formula_77, while the consistency of the formula_73 themselves follows from the quasi-coherence assumption on \"S\".\n\nIf \"S\" has the additional property that formula_81 is a coherent sheaf and locally generates \"S\" over formula_82 (that is, when we pass to the stalk of the sheaf \"S\" at a point \"x\" of \"X\", which is a graded algebra whose degree-zero elements form the ring formula_83 then the degree-one elements form a finitely-generated module over formula_83 and also generate the stalk as an algebra over it) then we may make a further construction. Over each open affine \"U\", Proj \"S\"(\"U\") bears an invertible sheaf O(1), and the assumption we have just made ensures that these sheaves may be glued just like the formula_73 above; the resulting sheaf on formula_70 is also denoted \"O\"(1) and serves much the same purpose for formula_70 as the twisting sheaf on the Proj of a ring does.\n\nLet formula_88 be a quasi-coherent sheaf on a scheme formula_89. The sheaf of symmetric algebras formula_90 is naturally a quasi-coherent sheaf of graded formula_22-modules, generated by elements of degree 1. The resulting scheme is denoted by formula_92. If formula_88 is of finite type, then its canonical morphism formula_94 is a projective morphism.\n\nFor any formula_95, the fiber of the above morphism over formula_96 is the projective space formula_97 associated to the dual of the vector space formula_98 over formula_99.\n\nIf formula_100 is a quasi-coherent sheaf of graded formula_22-modules, generated by formula_102 and such that formula_102 is of finite type, then formula_104 is a closed subscheme of formula_105 and is then projective over formula_89. In fact, every closed subscheme of a projective formula_92 is of this form.\n\nAs a special case, when formula_88 is locally free of rank formula_109, we get a projective bundle formula_92 over formula_89 of relative dimension formula_112. Indeed, if we take an open cover of \"X\" by open affines formula_113 such that when restricted to each of these, formula_88 is free over \"A\", then\n\nand hence formula_92 is a projective space bundle.\n\nGlobal proj can be used to construct Lefschetz pencils. For example, let formula_117 and take homogeneous polynomials formula_118 of degree k. We can consider the ideal sheaf formula_119 of formula_120 and construct global proj of this quotient sheaf of algebras formula_121. This can be described explicitly as the projective morphism formula_122.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2285007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2285007", "title": "Regenerative medicine", "text": "Regenerative medicine\n\nRegenerative medicine is a branch of translational research in tissue engineering and molecular biology which deals with the \"process of replacing, engineering or regenerating human or animal cells, tissues or organs to restore or establish normal function\". This field holds the promise of engineering damaged tissues and organs by stimulating the body's own repair mechanisms to functionally heal previously irreparable tissues or organs.\n\nRegenerative medicine also includes the possibility of growing tissues and organs in the laboratory and implanting them when the body cannot heal itself. When the cell source for a regenerated organ is derived from the patient's own tissue or cells, the challenge of organ transplant rejection via immunological mismatch is circumvented. This approach could alleviate the problem of the shortage of organs available for donation.\n\nSome of the biomedical approaches within the field of regenerative medicine may involve the use of stem cells. Examples include the injection of stem cells or progenitor cells obtained through directed differentiation (cell therapies); the induction of regeneration by biologically active molecules administered alone or as a secretion by infused cells (immunomodulation therapy); and transplantation of \"in vitro\" grown organs and tissues (tissue engineering).\n\nThe term \"regenerative medicine\" was first used in a 1992 article on hospital administration by Leland Kaiser. Kaiser's paper closes with a series of short paragraphs on future technologies that will impact hospitals. One paragraph had \"Regenerative Medicine\" as a bold print title and stated, \"A new branch of medicine will develop that attempts to change the course of chronic disease and in many instances will regenerate tired and failing organ systems.\"\n\nThe term was brought into the popular culture in 1999 by William A. Haseltine when he coined the term during a conference on Lake Como, to describe interventions that restore to normal function that which is damaged by disease, injured by trauma, or worn by time. Haseltine was briefed on the project to isolate human embryonic stem cells and embryonic germ cells at Geron Corporation in collaboration with researchers at the University of Wisconsin–Madison and Johns Hopkins School of Medicine. He recognized that these cells' unique ability to differentiate into all the cell types of the human body (pluripotency) had the potential to develop into a new kind of regenerative therapy. Explaining the new class of therapies that such cells could enable, he used the term \"regenerative medicine\" in the way that it is used today: \"an approach to therapy that ... employs human genes, proteins and cells to re-grow, restore or provide mechanical replacements for tissues that have been injured by trauma, damaged by disease or worn by time\" and \"offers the prospect of curing diseases that cannot be treated effectively today, including those related to aging\".\n\nLater, Haseltine would go on to explain that regenerative medicine acknowledges the reality that most people, regardless of which illness they have or which treatment they require, simply want to be restored to normal health. Designed to be applied broadly, the original definition includes cell and stem cell therapies, gene therapy, tissue engineering, genomic medicine, personalized medicine, biomechanical prosthetics, recombinant proteins, and antibody treatments. It also includes more familiar chemical pharmacopeia—in short, any intervention that restores a person to normal health. In addition to functioning as shorthand for a wide range of technologies and treatments, the term “regenerative medicine” is also patient friendly. It solves the problem of confusing or intimidating language discourage to patients.\n\nThe term regenerative medicine is increasingly conflated with research on stem cell therapies. Some academic programs and departments retain the original broader definition while others use it to describe work on stem cell research.\n\nFrom 1995 to 1998 Michael D. West, PhD, organized and managed the research between Geron Corporation and its academic collaborators James Thomson at the University of Wisconsin–Madison and John Gearhart of Johns Hopkins University that led to the first isolation of human embryonic stem and human embryonic germ cells, respectively.\n\nIn March 2000, Haseltine, Antony Atala, M.D., Michael D. West, Ph.D., and other leading researchers founded \"E-Biomed: The Journal of Regenerative Medicine\". The peer-reviewed journal facilitated discourse around regenerative medicine by publishing innovative research on stem cell therapies, gene therapies, tissue engineering, and biomechanical prosthetics. The Society for Regenerative Medicine, later renamed the Regenerative Medicine and Stem Cell Biology Society, served a similar purpose, creating a community of like-minded experts from around the world.\n\nIn June 2008, at the Hospital Clínic de Barcelona, Professor Paolo Macchiarini and his team, of the University of Barcelona, performed the first tissue engineered trachea (wind pipe) transplantation. Adult stem cells were extracted from the patient's bone marrow, grown into a large population, and matured into cartilage cells, or chondrocytes, using an adaptive method originally devised for treating osteoarthritis. The team then seeded the newly grown chondrocytes, as well as epithelial cells, into a decellularised (free of donor cells) tracheal segment that was donated from a 51-year-old transplant donor who had died of cerebral hemorrhage. After four days of seeding, the graft was used to replace the patient's left main bronchus. After one month, a biopsy elicited local bleeding, indicating that the blood vessels had already grown back successfully.\n\nIn 2009, the SENS Foundation was launched, with its stated aim as \"the application of regenerative medicine – defined to include the repair of living cells and extracellular material in situ – to the diseases and disabilities of ageing\". In 2012, Professor Paolo Macchiarini and his team improved upon the 2008 implant by transplanting a laboratory-made trachea seeded with the patient's own cells.\n\nOn September 12, 2014, surgeons at the Institute of Biomedical Research and Innovation Hospital in Kobe, Japan, transplanted a 1.3 by 3.0 millimeter sheet of retinal pigment epithelium cells, which were differentiated from iPS cells through Directed differentiation, into an eye of an elderly woman, who suffers from age-related macular degeneration.\n\nIn 2016, Paolo Macchiarini was fired from Karolinska University in Sweden due to falsified test results and lies. The TV-show Experimenten aired on Swedish Television and detailed all the lies and falsified results.\n\nWidespread interest and funding for research on regenerative medicine has prompted institutions in the United States and around the world to establish departments and research institutes that specialize in regenerative medicine including: The Department of Rehabilitation and Regenerative Medicine at Columbia University, the Institute for Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine at Stanford University, the Center for Regenerative and Nanomedicine at Northwestern University, the Wake Forest Institute for Regenerative Medicine, and the British Heart Foundation Centers of Regenerative Medicine at the University of Oxford. In China, institutes dedicated to regenerative medicine are run by the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Tsinghua University, and the Chinese University of Hong Kong, among others.\n\nExtracellular matrix materials are commercially available and are used in reconstructive surgery, treatment of chronic wounds, and some orthopedic surgeries; as of January 2017 clinical studies were under way to use them in heart surgery to try to repair damaged heart tissue.\n\nThough uses of cord blood beyond blood and immunological disorders is speculative, some research has been done in other areas. Any such potential beyond blood and immunological uses is limited by the fact that cord cells are hematopoietic stem cells (which can differentiate only into blood cells), and not pluripotent stem cells (such as embryonic stem cells, which can differentiate into any type of tissue). Cord blood has been studied as a treatment for diabetes. However, apart from blood disorders, the use of cord blood for other diseases is not a routine clinical modality and remains a major challenge for the stem cell community.\n\nAlong with cord blood, Wharton's jelly and the cord lining have been explored as sources for mesenchymal stem cells (MSC), and as of 2015 had been studied in vitro, in animal models, and in early stage clinical trials for cardiovascular diseases, as well as neurological deficits, liver diseases, immune system diseases, diabetes, lung injury, kidney injury, and leukemia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2285008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2285008", "title": "Hotliner", "text": "Hotliner\n\nIn radio-controlled aircraft, a hotliner is a fast sailplane with an electric motor. The range of what is often described as a hotliner varies from a sailplane with ailerons to 7000 watt competition F5b planes. General characteristics of a hotliner are:\n\n\nHotliners have been around since the early 1990s and became popular almost a decade later.\n\nThe first hotliner was Hans-Dieter Levin's \"Aeronaut Sinus\", described in a German magazine. Originally, hotliners were electric sailplanes with remotely controlled ailerons, capable of flying faster than the models of the period that only had rudder and elevator controls. Levin tested his \"Sinus\" with a Speed 600 motor and an 8x4.5?(\"diameter(inches)/pitch(incher per revolution)\") prop and a 7 cell NiCad battery pack. In this configuration a climb at more than 70° was not possible. However, the term, hotliner, has since evolved to mean models with a fast climb rate. Aileron-equipped electric models which are not so fast are called warmliners.\n\nTypically hotliners are launched at full throttle and reach a high altitude. From here the pilot cuts the motor and starts a series of maneuvers.\n"}
{"id": "2285013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2285013", "title": "Cell therapy", "text": "Cell therapy\n\nCell therapy (also called cellular therapy, cell transplantation, or cytotherapy) is a therapy in which viable cells are injected, grafted or implanted into a patient in order to effectuate a medicinal effect, for example, by transplanting T-cells capable of fighting cancer cells via cell-mediated immunity in the course of immunotherapy, or grafting stem cells to regenerate diseased tissues.\n\nCell therapy originated in the nineteenth century when scientists experimented by injecting animal material in an attempt to prevent and treat illness. Although such attempts produced no positive benefit, further research found in the mid twentieth century that human cells could be used to help prevent the human body rejecting transplanted organs, leading in time to successful bone marrow transplantation as has become common practice in treatment for patient that how compromised bone marrow after disease, infection, radiation or chemotherapy. In recent decades, however, stem cell- and cell transplantation has gained significant interest by researchers as a potential new therapeutic strategy for a wide range of diseases, in particular for degenerative and immunogenic pathologies.\n\nCell therapy can be defined as therapy in which cellular material is injected or otherwise transplanted into a patient. The origins of cell therapy can perhaps be traced to the nineteenth century, when Charles-Édouard Brown-Séquard (1817–1894) injected animal testicle extracts in an attempt to stop the effects of aging. In 1931 Paul Niehans (1882–1971) – who has been called the inventor of cell therapy – attempted to cure a patient by injecting material from calf embryos. Niehans claimed to have treated many people for cancer using this technique, though his claims have never been validated by research.\n\nIn 1953 researchers found that laboratory animals could be helped not to reject organ transplants by pre-inoculating them with cells from donor animals; in 1968, in Minnesota, the first successful human bone marrow transplantation took place. In more recent work, cell encapsulation is pursued as a means to shield therapeutic cells from the host immune response. Recent work includes micro-encapsulating cells in a gel core surrounded by a solid, but permeable, shell.\n\nBone marrow transplants are the most common and well established cell transplantation therapies. The first recording of a successful bone marrow transplant, dates back to 1956 by dr. E Donnall Thomas, who treated a leukemia patient with their twin-siblings bone marrow. In general, for patients presenting damaged or destroyed bone marrow, for example after chemotherapy and/or radiation for acute myeloid leukemia (AML), bone marrow derived cells can be infused into the patients blood stream. Here the injected cells are able to home into the afflicted bone marrow, integrate, proliferate and recover or re-establish its biological function \"e.g.\" the haematopoiesis. Annually an estimated 18,000 patients require potentially life-saving bone marrow transplants in the USA. For a long time, bone marrow transplantation was the only clinically applicable method of cell transplantation, however, since the 1990s, cell therapy has been investigated for a wide scale of pathologies and disorders. Cell therapy provided a novel approach to effectuate therapeutic efficacy. Previously, medical agents could only be effective by directing and inducing the patients own cells. However, in many diseases and disorders, cell are compromised by \"e.g.\" senescence, limited blood supply (ischemia), inflammation, or simply a reduction in the number of cells. Cell therapy offers a new strategy that supports the introduction of new and active cells to restore previously compromised or deteriorated tissue- and organ structures. As such, in recent times, cell therapy has been recognized as an important field in the treatment of human disease, and investigations are ongoing in articular cartilage, brain tissue, spine, heart, cancers, etc. As a consequence cell therapy as a strategy has been attracting significant investments by commercial entities which suggest strong prospects for future growth.\n\nCell therapy is targeted at many clinical indications in multiple organs and by several modes of cell delivery. Accordingly, the specific mechanisms of action involved in the therapies are wide-ranging. However, there are two main principles by which cells facilitate therapeutic action:\n\n\nIn allogeneic cell therapy the donor is a different person to the recipient of the cells. In pharmaceutical manufacturing, the allogenic methodology is promising because unmatched allogenic therapies can form the basis of \"off the shelf\" products. There is research interest in attempting to develop such products to treat conditions including Crohn's disease and a variety of vascular conditions.\n\nIn autologous cell therapy, cells are transplanted that are derived from the patients own tissues. Multiple clinical studies are ongoing that obtain stromal cells from bone-marrow, adipose tissue, or peripheral blood to be transplanted at sites of injury or stress; which is being actively explored for \"e.g.\" cartilage and muscle repair. It could also involve the isolation of matured cells from diseased tissues, to be later re-implanted at the same or neighboring tissues; a strategy being assessed in clinical trials for \"e.g.\" the spine in preventing disc reherniation or adjacent disc disease. The benefit of an autologous strategy is that there is limited concern for immunogenic responses or transplant rejection. Nevertheless, an autologous strategy is often costly due to patient-by-patient processing, thus preventing the option to create large quality-controlled batches. Moreover, autologous strategies generally do not allow for product quality and effectiveness testing prior to transplantation, as it is highly donor (thus patient) dependent. This is a particular concern as often the patient functioning as donor is diseased, and this can impact cell potency and quality.\n\nIn xenogeneic cell therapies, the recipient will receive cells from another species. For example, the transplantation of pig derived cells to humans. Currently, xenogeneic cell therapies primarily involve human cell transplantation into experimental animal models for assessment of efficacy and safety, however future advances could potentially enable xenogeneic strategies to humans as well.\n\nResearch into human embryonic stem cells is controversial, and regulation varies from country to country, with some countries banning it outright. Nevertheless, these cells are being investigated as the basis for a number of therapeutic applications, including possible treatments for diabetes and Parkinson's disease.\n\nNeural stem cells (NSCs) are the subject of ongoing research for possible therapeutic applications, for example for treating a number of neurological disorders such as Parkinson's disease and Huntington's disease.\n\nMSCs are immunomodulatory, multipotent and fast proliferating and these unique capabilities mean they can be used for a wide range of treatments including immune-modulatory therapy, bone and cartilage regeneration, myocardium regeneration and the treatment of Hurler syndrome, a skeletal and neurological disorder.\n\nResearchers have demonstrated the use of MSCs for the treatment of osteogenesis imperfecta (OI). Horwitz et al. transplanted bone marrow (BM) cells from human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-identical siblings to patients suffering from OI. Results show that MSCs can develop into normal osteoblasts, leading to fast bone development and reduced fracture frequencies. A more recent clinical trial showed that allogeneic fetal MSCs transplanted in utero in patients with severe OI can engraft and differentiate into bone in a human fetus.\n\nBesides bone and cartilage regeneration, cardiomyocyte regeneration with autologous BM MSCs has also been reported recently. Introduction of BM MSCs following myocardial infarction (MI) resulted in significant reduction of damaged regions and improvement in heart function. Clinical trials for treatment of acute MI with Prochymal by Osiris Therapeutics are underway. Also, a clinical trial revealed huge improvements in nerve conduction velocities in Hurler's Syndrome patients infused with BM MSCs from HLA-identical siblings.\n\nHematopoietic stem cells (HSCs), derived from bone marrow or blood, are cells with the abilities to self-renew and to differentiate into all types of blood cells, especially those involved in the human immune system. Thus, they can be used to treat blood and immune disorders. Since human bone marrow grafting was first published in 1957, there have been significant advancements in HSCs therapy. Following that, syngeneic marrow infusion and allogeneic marrow grafting were performed successfully. HSCs therapy can also render its cure by reconstituting damaged blood-forming cells and restoring the immune system after high-dose chemotherapy to eliminate disease.\n\nThere are three types of HSC transplantation: syngeneic, autologous, and allogeneic transplants. Syngeneic transplantations occur between identical twins. Autologous transplantations use the HSCs obtained directly from the patient and hence avoid complications of tissue incompatibility; whereas allogeneic transplantations involve the use of donor HSCs, either genetically related or unrelated to the recipient. To lower the risks of transplant, which include graft rejection and Graft-Versus-Host Disease (GVHD), allogeneic HSCT must satisfy compatibility at the HLA loci (i.e. genetic matching to reduce the immunogenicity of the transplant).\n\nIn addition to bone marrow-derived HSCs, the use of alternative sources such as umbilical cord blood (UCB) and peripheral blood stem cells (PBSCs) has been increasing. In comparison with bone marrow-derived HSC recipients, PBSC recipients afflicted with myeloid malignancies reported a faster engraftment and better overall survival. The use of UCB requires less stringent HLA loci matching, although the time of engraftment is longer and graft failure rate is higher.\n\nAlternative to stem- or progenitor cells, investigations are exploring the transplantation of differentiated cells that only possess low or no proliferation ability. This tends to involve specialized cells able to facilitate specific function in the patients body (for example, transplantation of cardiomyocytes to repair heart function or islet cell transplantation for establishing insulin homeostasis in diabetes patients) or support/regenerate the extracellular matrix production of specific tissues (for example intervertebral disc repair by transplanting chondrocytes).\n\nIn alternative medicine, cell therapy is defined as the injection of non-human cellular animal material in an attempt to treat illness. Quackwatch labels this as \"senseless\", since \"cells from the organs of one species cannot replace the cells from the organs of other species\" and because a number of serious adverse effects have been reported. Of this alternative, animal-based form of cell therapy, the American Cancer Society say: \"Available scientific evidence does not support claims that cell therapy is effective in treating cancer or any other disease. It may in fact be lethal ...\".\n\nDespite being one of the fast growing areas within Life Sciences, the manufacturing of cell therapy products is largely hindered by small scale batches and labour-intensive processes.\n\nA number of manufacturers are turning to automated methods of production, eliminating human involvement and risk of human error. Automated methods of cell therapy manufacturing have opened up larger scale production of higher quality products at lower cost.\n\n"}
{"id": "2285025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2285025", "title": "Thomas Francis", "text": "Thomas Francis\n\nThomas Francis may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2285026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2285026", "title": "Lake Ariel, Pennsylvania", "text": "Lake Ariel, Pennsylvania\n\nLake Ariel is a village in Lake Township, Wayne County, Pennsylvania. It was once the site of an amusement park. The main intersection is dominated by Saint Thomas Moore Roman Catholic Church and the Howe Convenient Market.\n\nLocated in northeastern Pennsylvania, Lake Ariel was founded by settlers with the name of Jones, and thus was once known by its people as Jonestown. Although when the town began it was formed of only a few family farms, Jonestown soon expanded due to the Pennsylvania Coal Company's Gravity Railroad. It brought workers and soon businesses were needed to fulfil their needs, including a post office named Ariel, which would later lead to the change in name of the town.\n\nFirst settled in 1822 by the Jones family, the town was first called The Stock Farm and later Jonestown or Jones Pond. The first farm was located at the south end of the lake.\n\nLake Ariel Park was a major destination for many in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.\n\nSince the late 19th century through the 20th century, Lake Ariel has had various thriving businesses. There were numerous sawmills, and Lake Ariel also had different factories such as a cheese factory and a chair factory. Many locals also held jobs at the ice houses and Lake Ariel Park. Lake Ariel Park was a major tourist area for the community. It contained a pavilion for picnics and dancing. There were also rides such as a waterslide, a rollercoaster called the Cyclone, carousels, and miniature train rides. The park also had a beach where visitors could go swimming or boating. The owners of Lake Ariel Park also purchased an airplane so that their visitors could pay to get rides in the plane. The Lake Ariel Park also led to the increased popularity of the Lake Ariel Hotel which was formerly known as the Columbia Hotel. The Lake Ariel Hotel stood in disrepair for many years until it was finally torn down in 2011. Unfortunately, the Lake Ariel Park had a worse fate. Due to summer hurricanes and bad winters the park had to be closed down in the early 1950s.\nSome businesses did withstand the test of time. John T. Howe started his gas station in 1919, the business was passed down to his son and is still in business today. It now is called Howe Convenient Market. It is a gas station and store but it is not in the original building. Another business that had a few changes but is still running today is the Wayne Garage. It was built in 1915, making it the oldest business in Lake Ariel. After it was sold to new owners in 1958 it was changed to a body shop and remains one today.\n\nThe original St. Thomas More was dedicated in 1942. In 1996 the construction for the expansion of the church began; the rectory was torn down and rebuilt across the street, the church was converted into a steeple and offices and a new, larger church was built connected to it. A church from the past that remains unchanged today is the Avoy Christian Church, not only is it still standing but it still has services on Sunday. The Gravity Pentecostal Church is also still intact today, but it is now used as a house.\n\nThe Lake Ariel Elementary school has gone through many changes in its time. The original building is no longer the educational institute. The building known today as the Lake Ariel Elementary School was formerly known as the Lake Consolidated School. It was built in 1936 and in the 1950s in held the grades kindergarten through 12th. Since a new high school was built in Varden in 1973 it has been used solely as an elementary school. The Lake Ariel Elementary School closed down in 2011, after a new elementary school was built in a nearby town. The building was demolished in mid to late 2016\n\nThe center of Lake Ariel is the setting of most of the community's businesses, although there are numerous others.\n\nLake Ariel also contains many churches and religious institutions. St. Thomas More's Catholic Church is located in the center of the community, while several Protestant churches are located at various places in the community.\n\nIn Lake Ariel, there was the Lake Ariel Elementary School. Children from 3rd to 5th grade attended this school. It was part of the Western Wayne School District which also has schools in the nearby communities of Waymart, Hamlin, and Varden. It was torn down in 2016.\n\nWestern Wayne's newest school, Evergreen Elementary, opened August 31, 2011. It is located on Route 191 between Lake Ariel and Hamlin. The school replaced Lake Ariel Elementary and Hamlin Elementary and houses Pre-k through 5th grade. According to the Western Wayne School District website the projected cost of the school was $18 million. The new facility is the premier 'green' school in the state. The school attained the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design Silver Certification for its use of geo-thermal heating and cooling, and solar and wind energy.\n\nWCRV 97.7FM is a low-powered station serving Lake Ariel, Cherry Ridge, and Southern Honesdale.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2285036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2285036", "title": "Dead Lovers' Sarabande (Face Two)", "text": "Dead Lovers' Sarabande (Face Two)\n\n\"Dead Lovers' Sarabande\", as a whole, is a transitory death suite detailing the unnamed protagonist's mourning of her lover and her desire to rejoin him in the afterlife. Major recurring themes in the work include euthanasia, necrophilia, decay and loneliness. In \"(Face Two)\", the protagonist seems to have accepted the fact that her lover is dead and they will no longer share the same life they have led. She decides to continue loving him as she always have, despite his memory haunting her. She concludes by admitting that \"it's easier to love the dead\" and that she would truly be alone if Love was considered everything in life, rather than Death or Loneliness. Anna-Varney Cantodea later admitted that \"\"Dead Lovers' Sarabande\"\" was dedicated to, but not about, the late Rozz Williams, former frontman of deathrock band Christian Death.\n\nThe album retains the focus on folk music and chamber pieces presented by \"(Face One)\", but transplants many of the string instruments for brass arrangements. Electric guitar is featured on \"If Loneliness was all\", for the first time since \"\"Todeswunsch - Sous le soleil de Saturne\"\". The influence of drone music is still present on songs like \"Procession/Funeral March\". \"Va(r)nitas, vanitas...\" contains elements of \"Feralia Genetalia\" from \"\"Voyager\" - The Jugglers of Jusa\". As a subtle joke, Cantodea referenced her own name in the song title, effectively translating it as \"Varney, vanity... (...all is vanity).\"\n\n\"\"Dead Lovers' Sarabande\" (Face Two)\" was re-released on CD with newly packaged artwork in 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "2285049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2285049", "title": "Upper Myanmar", "text": "Upper Myanmar\n\nUpper Burma (, also called Upper Myanmar) refers to a geographic region of Burma (Myanmar), traditionally encompassing Mandalay and its periphery (modern Mandalay, Sagaing, Magway Regions), or more broadly speaking, Kachin and Shan States.\n\nIn the Burmese language, people originating from Upper Burma are typically called \"a-nya tha\" (), whereas those from Lower Burma are called \"auk tha\" ().\n\nThe term was first used by the British to refer to the central and northern area of what is now the country of Myanmar (Burma). After the Second Anglo-Burmese War of 1852, Lower Burma was annexed by the British Empire, while Upper Burma remained independent under the Burmese Empire until the Third Anglo-Burmese War of 1885. Upper Burma was also known as Burma proper and the Kingdom of Ava. Historically, Upper Burma was predominantly Bamar (whereas Lower Burma was historically Mon-speaking until the early 19th century), while the Frontier Areas, as designated by the colonial administration, included ethnic minority areas, such as the Shan States and modern Kachin State.\n\nThis distinction between Upper and Lower Burma is also found in some government departments (for instance, the Ministry of Education has departments assigned to Upper or Lower Burma), while some newspapers make a distinction between the two bodies. The Burmese language edition of \"The Myanmar Times\" is an example; the newspaper devotes a section to news from Upper Burma. In terms of linguistic differences, there are minute differences between the variants of Burmese spoken by Upper Burmese, especially in vocabulary choice (such as kinship terms that differentiate the maternal and paternal sides of a family, which is not made in Lower Burmese speech). However, there is remarkable uniformity in the Burmese spoken throughout the Irrawaddy River valley, which also includes the delta-lying and coastal region of Lower Burma.\n\n"}
{"id": "2285051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2285051", "title": "Sancocho", "text": "Sancocho\n\nSancocho (from the Spanish verb \"sancochar\", \"to parboil\") is a traditional broth (often considered a soup) in several Latin American cuisines. Variations represent popular national dishes in Puerto Rico, Honduras, Ecuador, Colombia, Cuba, Panama, Dominican Republic, Trinidad and Tobago, and Venezuela. It usually consists of large pieces of meat, tubers and vegetables served in a broth.\n\nIn Puerto Rico, sancocho is considered a fairly rustic dish. It is made with chicken and smoked ham (Sancocho de gallina), top round beef (sancocho), pork feet with chickpeas (sancocho de patitas), or beef short ribs with chorizo. There are several versions and every household has their own take on sancocho, but a true Puerto Rican sancocho always calls for corn on the cob, a variety of tubers, guineos, sofrito, and sazón. Other vegetables and flavoring can include celery, carrots, ginger, thyme, parsley, bay leaves, orégano, wine, and rum. The hearty stew is served with a small bowl of rice, pique criollo, tostones, and bread.\n\nIn Venezuela, sancochos are prepared throughout the country, recognized as a typical meal of the weekend. The stew can be beef (usually in the Llanos region), chicken (usually central and western region), beef stomach and shank (simply called \"tripe\") or goat (here called \"goat tripe\", typical of western Falcón and Lara states) and fish or seafood (usually East and Caribbean coast). When mixing two types of meat (chicken and beef, etc.) is called crossover or \"cruzado\". Among vegetables and traditional spices for all varieties are yam, onion, garlic, salt, pepper, oregano, potato, cassava, jojoto (maize/corn), celery (celeriac), taro (mafafa/malanga), pumpkin (squash), cabbage, Chinese taro or Chirel hot pepper, cilantro, and green or topocho banana.\n\nThese soups are major Venezuelan cuisine dishes that are not usually accompanied by other foods. Consumed at lunchtime or in the evening, the stew is a common dish at celebrations, usually served during or after meals — the latter, according to popular belief, to relieve hangover. For this reason, it is typical to serve this dish for lunch on Christmas or New Year's Day.\n\nIt is usually served with cassava or with arepas. Some people add lemon juice (especially fish). There are variants of the same, as the \"cruzado\" and the three-phase, when three types of meat are combined. Undeniably, the popularity of this dish is seen at celebrations: Instead of saying you are going to a party, it is common to \"go to a sancocho.\" Colloquially, it is often simply called \"soup\". In some regions (as in Zulia state) it is given the name sopón.\n\nSancocho is a traditional food in Colombia made with many kinds of meat (most commonly chicken, hen, pork ribs, cow ribs, fish, and ox tail) with large pieces of plantain, potato, cassava and/or other vegetables such as tomato, scallion, cilantro, and mazorca (corn on the cob), depending on the region. Some top it off with fresh cilantro, onion and squeezed lime — a sort of \"pico de gallo\", minus the tomato. It is also served with a side of sliced avocado and a plate of white rice, which is usually dipped in with each spoonful of soup.\n\nIn the \"Sierra\" of Ecuador, sancocho, also known as fritada, is a comfort food made with pork. In the coastal region, it is similar to the Colombian sancocho. It has the typical ingredients: \"yuca\", plantain, and corn \"choclo\". It can be made of fish, hen, chicken, oxtail, or beef. Due to cultural differences, it can cause confusion when people go from one region to the other.\n\nThe Peruvian sancocho is called \"sancochado\" a baseline: meat chunks, corn, rice, and potatoes.\n\nIn the Dominican Republic, \"sancocho\" is considered one of the national dishes, along with \"la bandera\" (the flag), consisting of white rice, generally red beans and meat, usually chicken. There is a variant called \"sancocho cruzado\" or \"sancocho de siete carnes\", which includes chicken, beef and pork, with other meats. \"Sancocho de siete carnes\" means \"seven meat sancocho\" and is considered the ultimate sancocho dish. Longaniza, a type of pork sausage, is also used. Sancocho de gallina (hen sancocho) is common as well, often made for special occasions or on weekends. While sancocho de habichuela (bean sancocho) and sancocho de guandules are common, other types of sancocho are very rare.\n\nThere is a similar dish in Costa Rica: It is called olla de carne (meat pot).\n\nAlso known as \"sancocho de gallina\", it is the national dish of Panama. The basic ingredients are chicken, ñame (adding flavor and acting as a thickener, giving it its characteristic texture and brightness), and culantro (giving it most of its characteristic flavor and greenish tone); often yuca, mazorca (corn on the cob) and otoe are added. Other optional ingredients include \"ñampí\" (as the Eddoe variety of Taro is known), chopped onions, garlic and oregano. It is frequently served with white rice on the side, meant to be either mixed in or eaten with each spoonful. Hot sauce is frequently added, depending on regional and individual preferences. Regional varieties include \"Sancocho chorrerano\" (a specialty of the town of La Chorrera, which is only made with free-range chicken, onions, garlic, chili peppers, oregano and ñame) and \"Sancocho chiricano\" (a specialty from Chiriquí Province and the heartiest variety, containing squash in addition to all basic and optional ingredients mentioned before, having a yellowish color as a result). It is often recommended as the best remedy for a hangover. It is used as a metaphor for the country's racial diversity due to the varied ingredients that contribute their particular properties to and having an equally important role in the cooking process and final product.\n\nIn El Salvador, it is a stew made with the offal of cattle, such as the stomach.\n\nReflecting its Spanish influence, sancocho is eaten in the Philippines, where the hearty stew is made with fish, beef shanks, three kinds of meat, chicken, pork butt, bacon, chorizo de bilbao and morcilla (Spanish blood sausage) as well as yucca, potatoes, cilantro, corn, cabbage, bok choy, carrots and string beans. Known as cocido in the Philippines, it is often confused with puchero Filipino, which may use ham and different sausages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2285054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2285054", "title": "Sister2Sister", "text": "Sister2Sister\n\nSister2Sister or S2S were an Australian duo comprising the Muscat sisters, Christine and Sharon, who were pop singers, songwriters and television presenters. Their debut album, \"One\" (June 2000), peaked at No. 3 on the ARIA Albums Chart. It provided two top five singles, \"Sister\" (1999) and \"What's a Girl to Do?\" (2000). At the ARIA Music Awards of 2000 \"Sister\" won Best Independent Release. From 2001 they undertook a career as television presenters, as VJs on \"MTV Hits\", and subsequently opened the Sister2Sister School of Singing in 2004.\n\nThe Muscat sisters, Christine (born 27 February 1981) and Sharon (born 23 August 1984 to Maltese immigrants), are the duo that make up Sister2Sister. Their career started young when they grew up in the Sydney suburb of St. Clair, where they attended Holy Spirit Primary school and later Emmaus Catholic College in nearby Erskine Park.\n\nGrowing up in a musical family, it was during those early years that the two developed a love for music. However, they also had a knack for acting , which resulted in both of them television presenting and landing roles in TV commercials and soap operas.\n\nAt the ages of 9 and 13, Christine and Sharon joined Brent Street Studios to also study dancing. Soon after joining the school, the girls were invited to join the Brent St. Kids performance troupe and began singing and dancing all over Sydney. It was through this exposure that they attracted the attention of Tina Arena who saw their performance at the Variety Club Heart Awards. Arena mentioned the girls to her now former manager/husband. He later signed them to his management company and new record label in 1997. After relocating to Melbourne to write their first album, the name Sister2Sister was born. It was at this time Sharon also studied at the Victorian College of Arts. The duo also opened for Britney Spears for 6 dates on her \"Oops!... I Did It Again Tour\" in the US.\n\nThe ARIA Music Awards is an annual awards ceremony that recognises excellence, innovation, and achievement across all genres of Australian music. Sister2Sister won 1 award from 2 nominations.\nThe sisters have performed as backing vocalists for Australian singer Delta Goodrem on her \"Believe Again\" and \"Wings of the Wild\" tours.\n\nAfter touring extensively through the US, UK and Europe, Sharon and Christine returned home to Sydney and decided to turn back to a previous passion and re-enter the world of television. They were VJs on MTV's Australian Top 30 for 18 months.\n\nAlthough the two still perform together, they have been keeping busy these days with the launching of their Sister2Sister School Of Singing in Castle Hill, New South Wales, Australia, which opened in 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "2285059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2285059", "title": "Independiente Santa Fe", "text": "Independiente Santa Fe\n\nIndependiente Santa Fe, known simply as Santa Fe, is a professional Colombian football team based in Bogotá, that currently plays in the Categoría Primera A. They play their home games at the El Campín stadium. Santa Fe is one of the three most successful teams in Colombia, winning seventeen titles, which includes 9 national championships (most recently in 2016), three Superliga Colombiana, two Copas Colombia, and international titles such as one Copa Sudamericana, one Suruga Bank Championship, and one Copa Simón Bolívar. Santa Fe is one of the three clubs that has played every championship in the Categoría Primera A.\n\nSanta Fe became the first Colombian team to win the Copa Sudamericana, and the first Colombian team to win an official tournament outside America. The club was recognized as one of the ten best clubs in the world in 2015 by the IFFHS, occupying the seventh position and being the best ranked of South America.\n\nSanta Fe has a fierce rivalry with Millonarios who share the same stadium. The game is considered as one of the most famous derbies in South America and is known as \"El Clásico Bogotano\" or \"El Clásico Capitalino\".\n\n\"Independiente Santa Fe\" was officially founded on February 28, 1941 as an amateur football team. The club's founders were mainly graduates from the Gimnasio Moderno and of a high social class. Santa Fe was at first going to a team based on ex-students of Gimnasio Moderno, but later incorporated players from other schools. The primary objective of the club was to participate in a local tournament hosted by the Sports Association of Bogotá. Their first recorded game was against Universal, a match that ended in a goalless draw. The team ended the tournament as runner-up with 20 points, being beaten by Legión Militar Deportiva de los Taxis Rojos, a representative of a transportation company.\n\nIn 1942, Santa Fe was coached by Jack Greenwell, former Barcelona player and coach, notable for having won three times the Copa del Rey and the 1939 South American Championship with Peru. That year Santa Fe played in the first division of the A.D.B., which was canceled in the middle of that year. That same year also reached the final of the \"Torneo de Cundinamarca\", which lost against América de Cali. Jack Greenwell died on November 20 of that year.\n\nOn 21 May 1948 was established in Colombia the DIMAYOR, which would serve to manage Colombian professional football. They agreed to hold the first professional championship for the second half of the year. On August 15, Santa Fe played its first game in the professional championship against Deportes Caldas, a match that ended 3–3. Santa Fe finished the league as the first champion of the Colombian first division, winning 12 of 18 games, drew 3 and also lost 3. The team was able to score 57 goals for and received 29 goals. The goalscorer of the team was the Spanish Argentine Jesús María Lires with 20 goals, second goalscorer of the tournament.\n\nNext year Santa Fe was third, five points behind the champion, local rivals Millonarios. Seeking for a new title, Santa Fe took advantage of the events of El Dorado signing Argentines Héctor Rial and René Pontoni (the former became a star of Real Madrid years later), as well the Englishmen Neil Franklin and George Mountford from Stoke City, and Charlie Mitten from Manchester United. However, the signings did little, as Santa Fe was not into the top three for about ten years, being their worst the 1954 campaign where they finished last with just five points.\n\nIn 1958, Santa Fe got its second title after finishing first with 48 points. They got its third title just two after years with 61 points. Getting this title, Santa Fe became the second Colombian club appearing at the Copa Libertadores. In that tournament, Santa Fe was placed in the Preliminary Round with Ecuadorian club Barcelona. The first match was a 3–0 victory for Santa Fe and the second game was a 2–2 draw. In the next round, Santa Fe eliminated Bolivian club Jorge Wilstermann. Santa Fe drew 2–2 with Jorge Wilstermann on point aggregate and 3–3 on aggregate score, so the winner was decided by a draw of lots. In the Semifinals, Santa Fe faced Brazilian club Palmeiras. The home leg was a 2–2 draw, but Santa Fe lost 4–1 in the away leg.\n\nSanta Fe's first success in the 2000s came late, when the team won the Copa Colombia, beating Deportivo Pasto in the Finals. Since then, Santa Fe has had a successful period. Santa Fe got its seventh league title in the 2012 Torneo Apertura, 37 years after its last league title. Santa Fe was second in the First Stage of the tournament with 29 points. In the Semifinals, they were grouped with Boyacá Chicó, Itagüí and La Equidad. Santa Fe advanced to the Finals with 14 points. Santa Fe faced Deportivo Pasto in the Finals. The first match ended in a 1–1 draw and the second was a 1–0 victory for Santa Fe. They got its first Superliga Colombiana title the next year and were runners-up in the 2013 Torneo Apertura, won by Atlético Nacional. In its Copa Libertadores appearance, they got into Semifinals. They began the tournament in the Second Stage, facing Cerro Porteño, Deportes Tolima and Real Garcilaso, where they finished first with 14 points and unbeaten. They eliminated Grêmio in the Round of 16 and Real Garcilaso in the Quarterfinals. In the Semifinals, they were eliminated by Olimpia, with an aggregate score of 2–1.\n\nIn the 2014 Torneo Apertura, Santa Fe was fourth on the First Stage, advancing to Quarterfinals. There Santa Fe eliminated Once Caldas with an aggregate score of 5–3. In the Semifinals, the team faced Atlético Nacional. The first match ended in a 1–0 win for Santa Fe. However, Nacional got a comeback with a 2–0 win, thus eliminating Santa Fe. In the Torneo Finalización, Santa Fe was first with 31 points. In the Semifinals, the team was placed in a group with Atlético Huila, Atlético Nacional and Once Caldas. Santa Fe placed first in the group, advancing to the Finals where they faced Independiente Medellín. Santa Fe won the first match and drew in the second, with an aggregate score of 3–2, winning its 8th title. That year, Santa Fe was runner-up in the Copa Colombia, losing the Finals against Deportes Tolima with an aggregate score of 3–2.\n\nIn the 2014 Copa Libertadores, Santa Fe played against Monarcas Morelia in the First Stage, drawing 2–2 on aggregate score and advancing to the next round due to away goals rule. In the Second Stage, the team was last of its group, in which they faced Atlético Mineiro, Club Nacional and Zamora, winning only one match of six.\n\nThe 2015 season had a great start for the team, as they qualified for the 2015 Copa Sudamericana after winning 2015 Superliga Colombiana in which they faced 2014 Torneo Apertura winners Atlético Nacional. However, in the 2015 Torneo Apertura, the team can not advance to the knockout phase after placing ninth with 31 points. In the Torneo Finalización, the team was 8th with the same number of points as the last tournament, however this time it was enough to advance to the next round. There the team was eliminated by Junior, whom also defeated them months later in the Copa Colombia Finals.\n\nThe international season of the team began with its Copa Libertadores participation. The team started in the Second Stage, where they faced Atlético Mineiro, Colo-Colo and Club Atlas. Santa Fe placed 1st with 12 points. In the Round of 16, they played against Argentine team Estudiantes de La Plata. They lost the away match 2–1, but with a 2–0 victory in home the team advanced to the Quarterfinals. There the team faced Brazilian club Internacional. The team got a 1–0 victory in the home game, but lost 2–0 in the away match.\n\nSanta Fe got its first international title in the 2015 Copa Sudamericana. They eliminated Ecuadorian LDU Loja in the First Stage and Uruguayan Nacional in the Second Stage. In the Round of 16 they eliminated Ecuadorian Emelec on away goals after drawing 2–2 on aggregate score. In the Quarterfinals they won 2–1 on aggregate to Argentine Independiente and in the Semifinals they also advanced on away goals after drawing 1–1 with Paraguayan Sportivo Luqueño. In the Finals they faced Argentine Huracán. After drawing 0–0 in both matches, the winner had to be decided on penalties. There Santa Fe won 3–1, thus getting the first international title of the club and qualifying for the 2016 Copa Libertadores, 2016 Recopa Sudamericana and 2016 Suruga Bank Championship. Santa Fe's Wilson Morelo tied with three footballers as top goalscorers of the tournament with five goals.\n\nIn the 2016 Torneo Apertura, Santa Fe placed fourth, advancing to the next round. There, Santa Fe was eliminated by Cortuluá with an aggregate score of 2–3. In the 2016 Copa Libertadores, the team advanced to the Second Stage after eliminate Oriente Petrolero with an aggregate of 1–6. However they were eliminated in the Second Stage after placing third in a group consisting of Cerro Porteño, Cobresal (who were last) and Corinthians.\n\nThe first badge of Santa Fe was designed by Ernesto Gamboa and Gonzalo Rueda with a clear British influence. Highlighting the Bogotá flag colors, red and yellow, combined to form the Holy Cross, a symbol of faith and respect, referring to the name of the club.\n\nThere are many versions about the origin of the colors of the uniform. The most commonly accepted version is that Luis Robledo, one of the founders of the Independiente Santa Fe who was educated in England, was a fan of Arsenal, thus gives the team the red and white, which from 1941 became the symbol of the club.\n\nAlthough historically the uniform of Santa Fe has been red and white, the club has used other colors in its uniform.\n\nThe stadium Nemesio Camacho, also known as El Campín, located in Bogotá, is the venue where Independiente Santa Fe plays their home games. Its capacity is 36,343. Santa Fe's supporters traditionally tend to sit in the southernmost half of the stadium.\n\nEl Campín was inaugurated on August 10, 1938 at 57th Street with 30, having started its construction in 1935 on the initiative of the mayor of Bogotá, Jorge Eliecer Gaitán. The structure was handled by the German engineer Frederick Leder Müller. The stadium was designed to hold 10,000 spectators. The opening match was held in the 1938 Bolivarian Games, facing the Colombia national football team and the Ecuador national football team, with a 2–1 defeat for the local team.\n\nIn 1951, the year that Santa Fe begins to use it to its home games, the stadium expanded its capacity to 39,000 spectators. The second extension of El Campín occurred in 1952 with a dramatic transformation. The total capacity changed to 62,500 spectators, but was limited to 48,000 for security. The last major modification was made for the qualifying matches for the 2010 World Cup in South Africa and for the 2011 FIFA U-20 World Cup.\n\nOther grounds that have been used by Independiente Santa Fe for their home games have been: the Estadio Alfonso López Pumarejo, its first ground, the Estadio Municipal Los Zipas and the Estadio Luis Carlos Galán Sarmiento.\n\nIn the late 1990s, the most notorious Barra brava of Santa Fe, \"La Guardia Albi-Roja Sur\" (White-Red South Guard) was created. It was one of the first fan-led organizations in Colombia that was fully formalized. In 2005, La Guardia Albirroja Sur made one of the largest soccer team's flag in the world. The flag, named the \"Lienzo de Fe\" was 350 meters long and 38 meters high, covering the southern end of the Estadio El Campín, the half of the stadium, where the team's fans locate in home games.\n\nSanta Fe have a fierce rivalry with intercity team Millonarios, who also play in the same stadium as them. During this match Millonarios fans ubicate themselves in the northern part of the stadium much like Santa Fe's in the south.\n\n\n\n\nSource: BDFA\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2285067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2285067", "title": "Labo", "text": "Labo\n\nLabo may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2285079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2285079", "title": "Warren Haynes", "text": "Warren Haynes\n\nWarren Haynes (born April 6, 1960) is an American musician, singer and songwriter. Haynes is best known for his work as longtime guitarist with the Allman Brothers Band and as founding member of the jam band Gov't Mule. Early in his career he was a guitarist for David Allan Coe and The Dickey Betts Band. Haynes also is known for his associations with the surviving members of the Grateful Dead, including touring with Phil Lesh and Friends and the Dead. In addition, Haynes founded and manages Evil Teen Records.\n\nIn addition to singing and playing acoustic and electric guitar, Haynes is also a songwriter. He spent his formative years in Asheville, North Carolina, where he was born, and lived with his two older brothers and his father, Edward Haynes. He began playing guitar at age 12. His primary guitar is a Gibson Les Paul '58 Reissue Electric Guitar. His choice of a '58 is most likely because of Duane Allman's famed '58 Les Paul and the tone he achieved with that, rather than the more commonly used '59 Les Paul model, popularized by guitarists such as Jeff Beck and Jimmy Page.\n\nHaynes has referred to himself as a \"Gibson man\", often playing Gibson Firebird and Gibson ES-335 models as well as the Les Paul models. This was acknowledged by the American guitar maker Gibson which has included a limited edition \"Warren Haynes signature Les Paul\" in its product line; built according to Haynes' specifications and modeled on his '58 Les Paul.\n\nHaynes is married to Stefani Scamardo, a DJ for Sirius radio and the long-time manager of Gov't Mule.\n\nIn a 2006 interview with Gibson.com's \"Backstage Pass\" Haynes explains his early influences:\n\"When I first started – chronologically speaking – Hendrix and Clapton and Johnny Winter were the first three people I got turned on to. That was the Cream era of Clapton. Then eventually, I heard the Allman Brothers and everybody else from that era that I stole something from (laughs). Of course, I would read interviews with all these people and find out who they listened to. And they all listened to B.B. King and Freddie King and Albert King and Howlin' Wolf and Muddy Waters and Elmore James, so I would go back and discover that stuff.\"\n\nWarren Haynes joined David Allan Coe's touring and recording band in 1980 when he was 20 years old. He remained with Coe's band for four years.\n\nShortly after, Haynes got a gig with The Nighthawks, while continuing to play with local musicians and doing session guitar and vocal work. One notable achievement of this period is a song he co-wrote with Dennis Robbins and Bobby Boyd for country musician Garth Brooks, titled \"Two of a Kind, Workin' on a Full House\", which was released on the album \"No Fences\" and remained the number 1 single on \"Billboard\"'s Hot Country Singles & Tracks chart for twenty weeks.\n\nAround 1987, Haynes got a call to perform backup vocals on a studio album by Dickey Betts, along with Dennis Robbins. Betts, who had concentrated on his solo career following the break-up of The Allman Brothers Band, decided to add Haynes to his band as his guitarist after the session. With Matt Abts on drums and Johnny Neel on keyboards, the now formed Dickey Betts Band released the 1988 album \"Pattern Disruptive\". In the same year, Haynes also co-wrote the title track for Gregg Allman's solo album \"Just Before the Bullets Fly.\"\n\nIn 1989, The Allman Brothers Band decided to reunite, and Betts recruited Haynes to join the band. Also joining were Neel on keyboards and Allen Woody on bass guitar. Haynes has since played on four well-received studio albums, including the gold certified \"Where It All Begins\" (1994). It was that same year when Warren played to his biggest audience ever with the Allman Brothers at Woodstock '94. Haynes and Woody left the group in March 1997 to focus solely on their side project Gov't Mule. Shortly after Woody's untimely death on August 26, 2000, Haynes began appearing with The Allman Brothers Band again in 2000 alongside young guitar prodigy Derek Trucks. He returned to the band as a full-time member shortly thereafter. On January 8, 2014, Haynes and Trucks jointly announced their respective plans to leave the ABB by the end of 2014, following the conclusion of the band's celebration of its 45th anniversary, with the band subsequently announcing that they would disband at the same time.\n\nIn 1994, Haynes formed Gov't Mule with Abts and Woody. Haynes and Woody initially split time between Gov't Mule and The Allman Brothers Band, but after The Allman Brothers' last show of their 1997 run at New York's Beacon Theatre on March 26, 1997, both left the band to focus on Gov't Mule full-time. They released three albums and became known for their powerful live performances. Some of these performances have been released as official live albums (\"Live at Roseland Ballroom\", \"Live... With a Little Help from Our Friends\" and \"Mulennium\"; the latter two capture consecutive New Year's Eve shows).\n\nOn August 26, 2000, Allen Woody died unexpectedly. Following his death, a decision was made to finish the tour acoustically as the \"Smile at Half-Mast\" tour. Gov't Mule released two studio albums (\"The Deep End, Volume 1\" and \"The Deep End, Volume 2\") and a live album/DVD (\"The Deepest End, Live in Concert\") featuring many of Woody's favorite bass players. In 2003, Andy Hess (bass) and Danny Louis (keyboard/organ) were added as permanent members to the group. Late the following year, this lineup released their first studio effort, \"Deja Voodoo\", which later included an EP of newly recorded material titled \"Mo Voodoo\". After recording 2006's \"High & Mighty\", Gov't Mule also released a dub EP titled \"Mighty High\" and a DVD titled \"Tale of 2 Cities\" that contained two full performances recorded in 2004 and 2006. The two shows on the DVD captured the first show of the Deja Voodoo Tour and the last show of the High & Mighty Tour, serving to encapsulate what was created over those two years. In 2008, Andy Hess left Gov't Mule to pursue other projects and was replaced by relative unknown, Jorgen Carlsson. \"By a Thread\", the first studio album from Gov't Mule featuring Carlsson, was released in 2009 on Haynes' own label, Evil Teen Records.\n\nIn 2010, they went back to the vault and released \"Mulennium\", a three-disc recording of a show from New Year's Eve 1999 in Atlanta. This was the first official recording released of the original trio since the death of Allen Woody in 2000. It also featured an appearance by Little Milton, one of Haynes's guitar heroes from his youth.\n\nSince the death of Jerry Garcia in 1995, Haynes has performed and toured with many of the surviving members of the Grateful Dead. In 1997, Haynes and Abts came onstage to jam with Bob Weir and Rob Wasserman in a small club. The performance was being filmed for Robert Mugge's film on Robert Johnson, \"Hellhound on My Trail.\" Then in 1999, Phil Lesh approached him to play lead guitar and sing for his solo group Phil Lesh and Friends. He played regularly with Lesh for 3 years and has continued making occasional appearances in the ever evolving lineup of his \"friends\" in subsequent years. In 2004, when The Dead (remaining members of the Grateful Dead) were in need of a new guitarist, they called upon Haynes to come play lead and sing for that summer's \"Wave That Flag Tour\". His run with The Dead ended on a night where he came in with them, then performed a solo acoustic set, and then ended the night playing with The Allman Brothers Band and started out on his next tour with them. He played lead guitar for The Dead again in late 2008 when they performed at a benefit at Penn State for then-presidential candidate Barack Obama, later touring with them in the spring of 2009.\n\nIn 1993, Haynes released his first solo album, \"Tales of Ordinary Madness\", which was produced by former Allman Brother keyboardist Chuck Leavell. He toured briefly in support of the record with various musicians, including Danny Louis.\n\nIn 2003 and 2004, Haynes released two solo acoustic albums, \"The Lone EP\", a collection of live performances and \"Live From Bonnaroo\" which documents his solo performance (part acoustic, part electric) at the 2003 Bonnaroo Music Festival. When not touring with one of his electric bands, Haynes will often take time out to do solo acoustic shows, which include a variety of well-known and rare covers along with his own material. In 2004, Warren Haynes performed five full-length solo acoustic shows, as well as opened 23 times for The Dead and once for The Allman Brothers Band.\n\nHe has also made 45 song appearances and 28 concert appearances with Dave Matthews Band, including on two released live albums: \"Live at Central Park Concert\" in 2003, in which he performed \"Cortez, the Killer\", and \"Jimi Thing\", and \"Live at Piedmont Park\" where he performed \"What Would You Say\".\n\nIn 2005, Haynes performed a one time only show under the name Warren Haynes & Friends. The band included Abts on drums, Dave Schools of Widespread Panic on bass, John Medeski of Medeski Martin & Wood and Skerik, the avant-garde sax player of bands such as Critters Buggin' and Les Claypool's Fearless Flying Frog Brigade. The group played a selection of blues songs, including songs of Led Zeppelin, Jimi Hendrix, Tom Waits, and Gov't Mule standards. The band was also featured as the house band during a number of tapings of \"Last Call with Carson Daly\" in early February 2005. During one of these tapings, the scheduled musical act was absent, so Haynes performed an acoustic rendition of U2's \"One\". The song also appeared on his \"Live from Bonnaroo\" album. In 2008, Haynes covered the Bob Dylan song \"I Shall Be Released\" with Coheed and Cambria, as well as their song Welcome Home, as part of an encore the band played during their shows in support of \"Neverender\".\n\nAfter recording Gov't Mule's \"By a Thread\" album, Haynes formed The Warren Haynes Band. The group included George Porter, Jr. on bass, Ivan Neville on keys and Raymond Weber on drums. Also joining them on keys was Ian McLagan, as well as vocalist Ruthie Foster and Ron Holloway on tenor sax. The Warren Haynes Band made their debut performance at Haynes' annual Christmas Jam in Asheville, North Carolina on December 11, 2010. The album \"Man in Motion\" was released in May 2011 and debuted in the Billboard Top 20. An extensive tour occurred after the release through the rest of 2011; the touring version of the band included Holloway, drummer Terence Higgins of the Dirty Dozen Brass Band, bassist Ron Johnson, keyboardist Nigel Hall, and various vocalists, either Foster, Alfreda Gerald, or Alecia Chakour.\n\nThe Warren Haynes Band's \"Live at The Moody Theater\" 2CD/1DVD package came out in April 2012 on Stax Records. The lineup on the recording consisted of Warren Haynes (lead vocals and guitar), Ron Holloway (saxophone), Ron Johnson (bass), Terence Higgins (drums), Nigel Hall (keyboards) and Alecia Chakour (backing vocals).\n\nHaynes has stated that his further solo efforts might take him into still other fields. \"There are other projects I want to do, too,\" he relates. \"I'm interested in recording a singer-songwriter oriented album with more acoustic instruments, a jazzy instrumental CD and a straight-up blues record. But like \"Man in Motion\", those albums will have to wait until the time is right.\"\n\nStarting in 1988, Haynes put together an annual charity benefit show, inviting musicians originally from his home town of Asheville who were home for Christmas, the only time of year they would all be in town at the same time. The first show, held at the \"45 Cherry\" club in Asheville on December 29, 1988, was dubbed \"The Christmas Jam: Musician's X-Mas Reunion.\" Some of the artists at the first Christmas Jam were Warren Haynes, Mike Barnes, Matt Sluder, The Crystal Zoo, The Stripp Band, Ronnie Burgin and the McBad Brothers Band.\n\nIn the initial years the proceeds from the concert were donated to various charities but eventually the organizers decided to focus on Asheville Area Habitat for Humanity, a non-profit that constructs and preserves homes; advocates for fair and just housing policies; and provides training and access to resources to help families improve their shelter conditions. In tribute to his financial support of Asheville Area Habitat for Humanity, a Habitat neighborhood in Buncombe County, North Carolina, has a street named after Haynes, and another subdivision was named in honor of Warren and Stefanie Hayne's son. In 2002, Haynes was presented with the key to the city by Asheville mayor Charles Worley. In 2003, Worley proclaimed December 18 as \"Warren Haynes Day\" in Asheville.\n\nThe event has continued to grow every year and is now dubbed \"Warren Haynes Presents: The Christmas Jam.\" Due to increasing audience demand, the show was eventually moved to the Asheville Civic Center. In 2008, for its twentieth anniversary, \"The Christmas Jam\" consisted of two nights of music; including \"The Christmas Jam By Day,\" a series of events including daytime concerts, movie screenings, and art, photo, and poster exhibits taking place in downtown Asheville on the days leading up to the show. The event reverted to one night in 2009, but retained \"The Christmas Jam By Day,\" and included the new \"Christmas Comedy Jam.\" The same format was repeated in 2010.\n\nHaynes has recorded two instructional videos: \"Electric Blues & Slide Guitar\" and \"Acoustic Slide and the art of Electric Improvisation\". He discusses his influences and shows an array of techniques such as \"call and response\", string bending, vibrato, slide guitar in standard tuning and some acoustic open tuning licks in G and E tunings. For the demonstrations of the electric improvisation section of the second video, he is accompanied by Allen Woody and Matt Abts.\n\nAll of Warren Haynes' projects allow audio taping and trading. He does not approve of video recording or photography of his performances and does not provide access to soundboard patches. The Allman Brothers Band also allows taping and trading, but does not allow distribution of their shows via the internet using such applications as BitTorrent. The reason given for this restriction is that it is more communal to trade person-to-person. In a 2005 \"USA Today\" article, Haynes stated that while tape-trading may cut into band profits, the benefits outweigh the drawbacks due to an increased fanbase.\n\nThis discography lists those releases involving Warren Haynes, including his various bands, other projects and guest appearances.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2285097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2285097", "title": "Dean Woods", "text": "Dean Woods\n\nDean Anthony Woods, OAM (born 22 June 1966) is an Australian racing cyclist from Wangaratta in Victoria known for his track cycling at the Olympic Games and Commonwealth Games. On Australia Day 1985 he was awarded the Order of Australia medal for service to cycling. He was an Australian Institute of Sport scholarship holder.\n\nAt the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles Woods, with teammates Michael Grenda, Kevin Nichols, and Michael Turtur, won the 4000m team pursuit. Critics did not give them much chance. The team was coached by Charlie Walsh and dubbed \"Charlie's Angels\". In the final the Australians defeated the USA by 3.86 seconds, even though the Australians were riding conventional bikes while the Americans had high-tech machines. Woods told The Border Mail in 2004, \"Expectations weren't high for us from the press, but we thought we would do pretty well. We had a close team.\"\n\nIn the 4000m individual pursuit Woods was beaten for bronze by Leonard Nitz (USA).\n\nIn the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul Wayne McCarney, Stephen McGlede, Scott McGrory, Brett Dutton and Woods won the bronze medal for the team pursuit, defeated by the USSR (gold) and German Democratic Republic (silver). In the individual pursuit Woods won the silver medal.\n\nWoods won a bronze medal in the team pursuit in the 1996 Summer Olympics. At the 1986 Commonwealth Games he won the individual pursuit event. In the 1990 Melbourne to Warrnambool Classic Woods set the record of 5h 12m or 50.9km/h for this 265km race.\n\nWoods established and worked at a bicycle shop, Dean Woods Direct, at Wangaratta but has since sold it.\n"}
{"id": "2285098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2285098", "title": "Ours Is the Kingdom", "text": "Ours Is the Kingdom\n\nOurs Is the Kingdom is the fourth album by English metal band Forefather. Its title is a play on the line of the Lord's Prayer \"\"For thine is the kingdom, the power and the glory\"\". The lyrics of the track are a statement against Christianity and a defiant will to reclaim the English kingdom from an alien God. The cover art depicts a dead crusader warrior, an image meant to symbolize Christian decay.\n\n\"\"Our hearts lie not in heaven,\"\n\"Nor Eastern desert sands.\"\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2285108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2285108", "title": "B100", "text": "B100\n\nB100 may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2285110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2285110", "title": "Gail O'Grady", "text": "Gail O'Grady\n\nGail Ann O'Grady (born January 23, 1963), an American actress and producer, is best known for her roles on television. Her roles include Donna Abandando in the ABC police drama \"NYPD Blue\", and Helen Pryor in the NBC drama series \"American Dreams\". O'Grady is also well known for her lead roles in a number of television movies. She has been nominated for a Primetime Emmy Award three times.\n\nO'Grady was born in Detroit, Michigan, the daughter of Jan and Jim O'Grady, a financial planner. She was raised in Wheaton, Illinois, and graduated from Wheaton North High School in 1981. She appeared in a few commercials before moving to Los Angeles in 1986.\n\nO'Grady began her career as a model for Montgomery Ward and by making several commercials. In one, she played the neighbor for whom Michael J. Fox's character chased down a Diet Pepsi. In time, she began making guest appearances, often as a villain. She made her big screen debut in the 1988 romantic comedy \"She's Having a Baby\", and later was cast in a recurring role on the ABC drama \"China Beach\", opposite Dana Delany. She also guest starred on several other shows, and appeared in made for television and independent movies.\n\nHer first major role was as Donna Abandando on the ABC police drama \"NYPD Blue\". O'Grady played the big-haired squad secretary from 1993 to 1996, and for each year received an Emmy Award nomination for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series. Along with cast, she won Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Drama Series in 1995. O'Grady left the series in 1996, and made a pilot for her own sitcom, \"The Gail O'Grady Project\", but the show was not picked up by any of the networks.\n\nAfter leaving \"NYPD Blue\", O'Grady began starring in numerous television movies for Lifetime and other networks, including \"The Three Lives of Karen\" (1997), \"Two Voices\" (1997), \"Every 9 Seconds\" (1997), \"Two of Hearts\" (1999), \"Another Woman's Husband\" (2000), \"Lip Service\" (2000), \"Hostage Negotiator\" (2001), \"Hope Ranch\" (2002), \"Lucky 7\" (2003), \"Sex and the Single Mom\" (2003), and \"More Sex & the Single Mom\" (2005).\n\nFrom 2002 to 2005, O'Grady starred as Helen Pryor in the NBC television series \"American Dreams\", which depicted an all-American family living in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, during the 1960s. The series was canceled after three seasons. In fall 2005, O'Grady was lead actress in the ABC comedy series \"Hot Properties\". The series was canceled after 13 episodes. In 2006 she guest starred on \"Two and a Half Men\", and in 2007 had a recurring role on \"Boston Legal\" as Gloria Weldon, a judge in a personal relationship with attorney Alan Shore. Also in 2007, she starred in the Hallmark Channel movie \"All I Want for Christmas\".\n\nO'Grady had series regular roles on the short-lived CW series \"Hidden Palms\" as Karen Hardy in 2007, and on \"Hellcats\", playing Wanda Perkins, the mother of the main character from 2010 to 2011. In 2008 she had a recurring role on ABC series \"Desperate Housewives\" as Anne Schilling, a woman who is having an affair with the character Porter Scavo (at that point a teenager). She also has made appearances on \"Monk\", \"\", \"The Mentalist\", \"\", \"Drop Dead Diva\", \"Hawaii Five-0\", and \"Castle\". She also was cast in major recurring role as Conrad's first wife on ABC primetime soap opera \"Revenge\", opposite Madeleine Stowe.\n\nO'Grady has been married six times. After breaking up with artist Robert Claypool, she sought a restraining order against him in 1995, claiming he was stalking her, but did not obtain one. He responded by suing her for defamation, libel and slander. In 2004, before her sixth marriage to John Stamatakis, O'Grady gave birth to her first child with her ex-boyfriend Chris Byers, son Michael Colton O'Grady, named after her late brother.\n"}
{"id": "2285130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2285130", "title": "Walloon Lake", "text": "Walloon Lake\n\nWalloon Lake is a glacier-formed lake located in Charlevoix and Emmet counties, just southwestward from the northern tip of the Lower Peninsula of Michigan. It is now home to many vacation homes and cottages. Though the end of the west arm of the lake is less than from Lake Michigan, Walloon Lake's surface elevation is over higher. The Bear River drains from the east end of the lake in Walloon Lake village, winding east then north down to its outflow into Lake Michigan at the south end of Petoskey.\n\nWalloon Lake was originally named Talcott. As the story goes, a local butcher, J. R. Haas, saw the name Walloon Lake on an old railroad map and tried to discover the history behind the name. It is thought that a group of Walloons from Belgium settled the land at the north end of the lake, which was then called Bear Lake. No trace of this settlement has ever been found.\n\nLocals refer to their cottages as being on the \"west arm\", or the \"foot\", etc. The lake covers and is primarily fed from groundwater. Its maximum depth is just over . Recently, the introduction of the invasive zebra mussel has made the clear waters even clearer. For a few months after the ice melts (usually in April), it is possible to see to the bottom of the lake at depths up to 30 feet.\n\nReal-estate value has increased rapidly since the 1970s, and many large houses have been built around the lake. There are two camps on the lake: Camp Daggett and Camp Michigania, the University of Michigan's Alumni Association camp. Starting around 2010, the area on the foot of the lake began redevelopment. New condominiums were constructed. In the next few years, a restaurant was built, and a retail store was created on the site of the old SI's marine. In 2014 developers broke ground on a new hotel to sit in between the marina and condominiums.\n\nIndian Trails provides daily intercity bus service between St. Ignace and East Lansing, Michigan.\n\nLocated on the north shore of Walloon Lake, Windemere was the childhood summer home of Ernest Hemingway. The house is still owned by the Hemingway family and is home to one of Hemingway's nephews.\n\nOriginally named Fern Cottage, the inn was a destination point for many visitors and also served as a docking point for the steamboats that would take the travelers to hotels or to their cottages on the lake. The inn has been renovated over the last thirty years and now serves the community as a bed and breakfast. The inn also houses a French-style restaurant and a culinary school.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2285135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2285135", "title": "Francisco Acuña de Figueroa", "text": "Francisco Acuña de Figueroa\n\nFrancisco Esteban Acuña de Figueroa (September 3, 1791 – October 6, 1862) was a Uruguayan poet and writer. He was born in Montevideo, on September 3, 1791 and died on October 6, 1862. He was the son of the Treasurer of the Royal Treasury, Jacinto Acuña de Figueroa.\n\nAcuña's father sent him to study in Buenos Aires, Argentina. His early education was at the Convent of San Bernardino, and he completed his studies in Buenos Aires at the Royal College of San Carlos, from which returned in 1810, prompted by the invasion of the city, having pursued studies in Arts. He returned to Montevideo, where he wrote poems while working for his father. There was no printing press in Montevideo, so none of his works were published at that time.\n\nHe went on to become the author of the words of the national anthems of Uruguay and Paraguay. He did not subscribe to the independence cause, but remained loyal to the colonial governments of Francisco Javier Elío and Gaspar de Vigodet, and after Montevideo fell in 1814, at 25 years old, he was exiled to the Portuguese Court in Rio de Janeiro, where he performed diplomatic functions for Spain. His father, on the other hand, remained in Montevideo, where he was confirmed in office by the new government because of his capacity for the job.\n\nHe returned to Montevideo in 1818, after the fall of José Artigas, the city falling under Portuguese rule, under which it would remain. Besides his literary work, he occupied posts such as state treasurer (succeeding his father), a member of the committee on the censorship of theatrical works (in 1846), and director of the Public Library and Museum (1840–1847).\n\nIn 1857, Acuña's poems were published in a book, and the national anthem of Uruguay, which dates from 1833, appeared. Acuña also had an extensive literary work, compiled by himself in 1848 and published posthumously in 1890 in 12 volumes under the general title of \"Complete Works\". It consists of numerous poems, stories, etc.. Many of his works have a strong satirical tone.\n\nAn anthology of his poems was published in 1965 in the collection of Uruguayan classics by the Artigas Library. One of his most curious poems is the \"Salve Multiforme\" (Multiform Salve), about which the author says: \"Salve Multiforme\" has two applications, two different objectives. The first, most essential and specific objective is purely religious, the second has a secular or political application. Under that first aspect it is a tribute of veneration and applause inexhaustible to the divine queen of heaven, it is the prayer of the Salve presented and reproducible in almost infinite ways: so many that many millions of years of continuous and incessant reading would not be enough to complete all possible paraphrases of this more or less diverse prayer, which, according to this method, can be formed. (...) The author has divided the salve into 44 fragments, placed successively in as many columns, numbered from 1 to 44.\n\nEach fragment has, in its own column, 26 paraphrases of itself, or at least similar related words, and combined with any of the 27 fragments of the preceding and subsequent columns, without breaking the sense of the Salve, which always maintains its grammatical syntax, without repeating, in an entire Salve, a fragment already used in it. (...) As a result, therefore, taking at random any fragment from the 1st column, another one from the 2nd, another from the 3rd., etc.., continuing that way up to column 44, a complete paraphrase of the salve will always be formed, perhaps elegant, perhaps weak, but never inappropriate or incoherent in its meaning.\n\nHaving, therefore, 27 fragments in the 1st column, freely combined with any of the following 27 and these with the successive column, and so progressively and mutually with the other columns, it is evident that millions upon millions of Salves can be combined and merged, more or less differently, i.e., with more or fewer differences among fragments. On reaching column 44 the word amen is added, which is in the last or supplementary column, to properly end each of the prayers.\n\nAcuña also wrote the lyrics for the national anthem of Paraguay. He died in Montevideo on October 6, 1862.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2285136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2285136", "title": "Perplex City", "text": "Perplex City\n\nPerplex City was a long-term alternate reality game (ARG) presented by Mind Candy, a London-based development team. The first \"season\" of the game had players looking for \"The Receda Cube\" (referred to simply as \"The Cube\"), a priceless scientific and spiritual artifact to the people of a fictional metropolis known as \"Perplex City\", that had been stolen and buried somewhere on Earth. The game offered a real-life £100,000 reward (approx. $130,000 or €115,000) to whoever found it. Like most alternate reality games, the story of Perplex City is told through blogs, puzzles, and other various media.\n\nThe game began in April 2005, and was won by Andy Darley of Middlesex, UK, who found The Cube in a wooded area in Northamptonshire, UK on 2 February 2007.\n\nAccording to Mind Candy, the first wave of cards for the new game season, called Perplex City Stories, would be released on March 1, 2007. However, in June 2007, they released an announcement which declared that the second season was on indefinite hold.\n\nPerplex City is a massive fictitious metropolis that has an unknown number of connections to Earth. It has a near-future feel to it, with advanced mobile technology, neuro-enhancing pharmaceuticals and kilometer-high skyscrapers. There is also a slightly more Utopian element to city life than we commonly find on Earth. The most important characteristic of the city's culture is the importance they place on puzzles and other mental pursuits. Their leading competitive event, the Academy Games, is primarily a competition of intellectual skill rather than physical strength. In fact, nearly every part of their culture touches upon the cryptic and mind.\n\nTheir religions fall loosely around a mythology of building, construction and technology, none of which are explicitly theistic. The Cube is, in all cases, a sacred and holy object, and rightfully so. It possesses a range of unusual properties which many believe to be of a supernatural origin.\n\nKey figures in city life include Sente Kiteway, Master of The Academy (The academy being an advanced learning institution in the city) and former custodian of the Cube. His two daughters, Scarlett and Violet, communicate regularly with the people of Earth through their blogs. Pietro Salk, an investigative reporter for leading newspaper \"The Sentinel\", produced many leads before he was unceremoniously killed off for getting too close to the truth. The team at the Academy tasked with returning the Cube (and ostensibly authors of the puzzle cards) are also frequently in touch, and Kurt McAllister is an important ally to players on Earth.\n\nAn artifact called the Receda Cube (pronounced /\"Reh-kay-duh\"/) is stolen from the Perplex City Academy and makes its way to Earth. A Cube Retrieval Team (CRT) is formed to search for the Cube. Because citizens of Perplex City are unable to travel to Earth, the Master of Perplex City Academy, Sente Kiteway, asks for help in finding the Cube from the citizens of Earth, offering to share any leads or clues that he or the CRT may get.\n\nClues to the location of the Cube are periodically left by the person who stole it, known only as Combed Thunderclap. It is discovered that an organization called the Third Power and a Cube-worshipping cult called the Reconstructionists are also looking for the Cube. While the people of Earth are left to search for the Cube on Earth, various citizens of Perplex City, particularly Kurt McAllister and Sente’s two daughters, Scarlett and Violet, attempt to find additional clues in Perplex City and to discover the identity of Combed Thunderclap. The former three discover the lab in which the Cube was made. They find that the Cube was built by Sente and can be used as a weapon and a teleporter. The Cube is finally found by the people of Earth in Northamptonshire, England; they also determine that it was Violet who stole the Cube and hid it on Earth, in an effort to keep it out of the hands of the Third Power.\n\nMind Candy sells a series of collectible puzzle cards. They are sold in booster packs, with each pack containing six random cards from the total possible 256 cards. Cards are divided into sets and subsets of varying rarity and difficulty.\n\nUnlike CCGs such as or Pokémon, though, the cards are not designed for competitive player-versus-player \"combat\". Instead, each card depicts a different puzzle, with the rarer cards also featuring more complex riddles. Cards are marked with unique identifiers which can then be entered onto the Perplex City website, earning points and a place on a leaderboard. Many cards contain hidden features, such as ultraviolet or heat-sensitive inks, and they cover a broad range of themes from pop-culture trivia to cryptography and logic brainteasers.\n\nEach card is a member of a four-card set. If all four cards are solved by a player, they receive double points for each card in the set.\n\nAs of February 2020, two cards from the first season are yet to be solved:\n\nTwo cards are no longer in circulation. The cards were excluded from wave-three print runs because they did not fit on the print layout. While these problems have been rectified, Mind Candy has no plans to replace or reprint these cards in the future. They are:\n\nThe puzzle cards are intended as an introduction to the characters and story of Perplex City itself, and the deeper mysteries of the Cube theft. Clues found on the cards direct players to various websites, blogs, emails, phone calls, and SMS messages, originating from Perplex City. These often feature puzzles of their own, whose solutions lead to further puzzles. Frequently these puzzles require players to co-operate in reaching various goals.\n\nPerplex City has been running since late 2004, much longer than the traditional ARG. Its longevity has allowed for a number of events that simply would not be possible within a two-month traditional lifespan of an ARG. Some examples of this include:\n\n\nIn late 2006, Mind Candy released Perplex City: The Board Game. Players solve anagrams, logic problems, visual puzzles, and trivia questions to collect a set of colored stones. Players can also challenge one another for their collected stones. To win, the last stone must be collected through challenging another player.\n\nThe rules insert maintains an in-universe approach to Perplex City, giving background about its puzzle-loving citizens and a fictional history of the board game.\n\nThe Mind Candy cards were first released in select outlets arounds the world, but are increasingly readily available from retailers both on- and offline. On September 7, 2006, Mind Candy announced that GameStop was to begin carrying Perplex City cards in 700 stores in the United States. As of September 26, 2006, some 682,425 cards have been marked as solved on the Perplex City leaderboard, with 45,215 players registered.\n\nMind Candy received a round of venture capital worth $3 million from Index Ventures, an investor in Skype and other technology companies.\n\nIn June 2007 Mind Candy announced that it would be putting season 2 of its ARG on hold indefinitely. Mind Candy's focus later moved to the Moshi Monsters franchise and the Perplex City project was abandoned.\n\nThe reviewer from the online second volume of \"Pyramid\" stated that \"The object of the game is, well . . . that depends. The whole game is incremental. At its simplest, the idea is to solve the poser on a card. If you want to become 200,000 very real dollars richer (apparently they can do bank transfers across the dimensional gulf), you need to suck as much information as you can out of as many sources as you can, including the cards, some scattered websites, and even real people (or their cell phones), to unlock where on Earth the Cube has been hidden.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2285139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2285139", "title": "Sonny Moorman", "text": "Sonny Moorman\n\nCyril \"Sonny\" Moorman (born 1955) is an American power blues guitarist. His style is sometimes compared to that of the Duane Allman, Jimi Hendrix, Eric Clapton, Lonnie Mack, Gov't Mule, and occasionally Warren Haynes. Moorman's parents owned a nightclub called the \"Half-Way Inn\" located halfway between Hamilton, Ohio and Middletown, Ohio on Ohio State Route 4 where he was able to watch musicians who played there, such as Lonnie Mack, from an early age. Moorman attended Michigan State University and also graduated from the Musicians Institute in Hollywood. He also owned a music lesson studio in Fairfield, Ohio called Rock School, and now offers guitar lessons out of 3rd Street Music in Hamilton, Ohio. He has been a member of Warren Zevon's touring band and the Tomcats with members of Sly and the Family Stone. One of his signature tunes is his cover of Lonnie Mack's \"Cincinnati Jail\". Moorman sometimes plays a Jamon Zeiler crafted Acoustic guitar and a 2004 model Gibson Flying V Reissue. On some tunes Sonny plays Slide guitar either upright or laptop. The band has opened for Johnny Winter in 2012.\n\n\nMoorman currently does solo acoustic performances and he also makes several appearances a week with his trio, the Sonny Moorman Group. They are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2285143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2285143", "title": "Encryption software", "text": "Encryption software\n\nEncryption software is software that uses cryptography to prevent unauthorized access to digital information. Cryptography is used to protect digital information on computers as well as the digital information that is sent to other computers over the Internet.\n\nThere are many software products which provide encryption. \nSoftware encryption uses a cipher to obscure the content into ciphertext. \nOne way to classify this type of software is by the type of cipher used. \nCiphers can be divided into two categories: public key ciphers (also known as asymmetric ciphers), and symmetric key ciphers.\nEncryption software can be based on either public key or symmetric key encryption.\n\nAnother way to classify software encryption is to categorize its purpose. \nUsing this approach, software encryption may be classified into software which encrypts \"data in transit\" and software which encrypts \"data at rest\".\nData in transit generally uses public key ciphers, and data at rest generally uses symmetric key ciphers.\n\nSymmetric key ciphers can be further divided into stream ciphers and block ciphers. \nStream ciphers typically encrypt plaintext a bit or byte at a time, and are most commonly used to encrypt real-time communications, such as audio and video information. \nThe key is used to establish the initial state of a keystream generator, and the output of that generator is used to encrypt the plaintext. Block cipher algorithms split the plaintext into fixed-size blocks and encrypt one block at a time. For example, AES processes 16-byte blocks, while its predecessor DES encrypted blocks of eight bytes.\n\nThere is also a well-known case where PKI is used for data in transit of data at rest.\n\nData in transit is data that is being sent over a computer network. \nWhen the data is between two endpoints, any confidential information may be vulnerable. \nThe payload (confidential information) can be encrypted to secure its confidentiality, as well as its integrity and validity.\n\nOften, the data in transit is between two entities that do not know each other - such as in the case of visiting a website. \nAs establishing a relationship and securely sharing an encryption key to secure the information that will be exchanged, a set of roles, policies, and procedures to accomplish this has been developed; it is known as the public key infrastructure, or PKI. Once PKI has established a secure connection, a symmetric key can be shared between endpoints. \nA symmetric key is preferred to over the private and public keys as a symmetric cipher is much more efficient (uses less CPU cycles) than an asymmetric cipher. There are several methods for encrypting data in transit, such as IPsec, SCP, SFTP, SSH, OpenPGP and HTTPS.\n\nData at rest refers to data that has been saved to persistent storage. Data at rest is generally encrypted by a symmetric key.\n\nEncryption may be applied at different layers in the storage stack. \nFor example, encryption can be configured at the disk layer, on a subset of a disk called a partition, on a volume, which is a combination of disks or partitions, at the layer of a file system, or within user space applications such as database or other applications that run on the host operating system.\n\nWith full disk encryption, the entire disk is encrypted (except for the bits necessary to boot or access the disk when not using an unencrypted boot/preboot partition). \nAs disks can be partitioned into multiple partitions, partition encryption can be used to encrypt individual disk partitions. \nVolumes, created by combining two or more partitions, can be encrypted using volume encryption. \nFile systems, also composed of one or more partitions, can be encrypted using filesystem-level encryption. \nDirectories are referred to as encrypted when the files within the directory are encrypted. \nFile encryption encrypts a single file. \nDatabase encryption acts on the data to be stored, accepting unencrypted information and writing that information to persistent storage only after it has encrypted the data. Device-level encryption, a somewhat vague term that includes encryption-capable tape drives, can be used to offload the encryption tasks from the CPU.\n\nWhen there is a need to securely transmit data at rest, without the ability to create a secure connection, user space tools have been developed that support this need. \nThese tools rely upon the receiver publishing their public key, and the sender being able to obtain that public key. \nThe sender is then able to create a symmetric key to encrypt the information, and then use the receiver's public key to securely protect the transmission of the information and the symmetric key. \nThis allows secure transmission of information from one party to another.\n\nBelow are some examples of software that provide this type of encryption.\n\n\nThe performance of encryption software is measured relative to the speed of the CPU. Thus cycles per byte (sometimes abbreviated cpb), indicating the number of clock cycles a microprocessor will perform per byte of data processed, are the usual unit of measurement. Cycles per byte serve as a partial indicator of real-world performance in cryptographic functions. \nApplications may offer their own encryption called native encryption, including databases applications such as Microsoft SQL, Oracle, and MongoDB, and commonly rely on direct usage of CPU cycles for performance. This often impacts the desirability of encryption in businesses seeking greater security and ease of satisfying compliance, by impacting the speed and scale of how data within organizations through to their partners.\n\n"}
{"id": "2285149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2285149", "title": "John Colson", "text": "John Colson\n\nJohn Colson (1680–1760) was an English clergyman and mathematician, Lucasian Professor of Mathematics at Cambridge University.\n\nJohn Colson was educated at Lichfield School before becoming an undergraduate at Christ Church, Oxford, though he did not take a degree there. \nHe became a schoolmaster at Sir Joseph Williamson's Mathematical School in Rochester, and was elected Fellow of the Royal Society in 1713. \nHe was Vicar of Chalk, Kent from 1724 to 1740. \nHe relocated to Cambridge and lectured at Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge. \nFrom 1739 to 1760 he was Lucasian Professor of Mathematics. He was also Rector of Lockington, Yorkshire.\n\nIn 1726 he published his Negativo-Affirmativo Arithmetik advocating a modified decimal system of numeration. It involved \"reduction [to] small figures\" by \"throwing all the large figures formula_1 out of a given number, and introducing in their room the equivalent small figures formula_2 respectively\".\n\nJohn Colson translated several of Isaac Newton's works into English, including \"De Methodis Serierum et Fluxionum\" in 1736.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2285160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2285160", "title": "Peter Oppenheimer", "text": "Peter Oppenheimer\n\nPeter Oppenheimer is the former senior vice president and Chief Financial Officer of Apple Inc and has been a member of the board of directors of Goldman Sachs since 2014.\n\nOppenheimer spent 18 years at Apple, reporting directly to CEO Tim Cook and serving on the company's executive committee. As CFO, Oppenheimer oversaw the controller, treasury, investor relations, tax, information systems, internal audit, facilities, corporate development, and human resources functions. He retired from Apple in 2014.\n\nOppenheimer attended California Polytechnic State University where he was a member of the Alpha Gamma Rho fraternity. He graduated with a BA in Agricultural Business in 1985, later receiving an MBA from Santa Clara University, both with honors.\n\nIn 2015, Oppenheimer and his wife, Mary Beth, made a $20 million cash donation to Cal Poly, the university's largest to date.\n\nOppenheimer spent six years in the Information Technology Consulting Practice with Coopers and Lybrand (now PricewaterhouseCoopers) where he managed financial, systems engagements for clients in the insurance, telecommunications, transportation and banking industries. Oppenheimer then joined Automatic Data Processing (ADP), where he was Chief Financial Officer of the Claims Services Division.\n\nIn 1996, Oppenheimer joined Apple as controller for the Americas. In 1997, he was promoted to vice president and Worldwide Sales controller and then to corporate controller.\n\nOn March 3, 2014, Oppenheimer announced that he would be joining the Board of Directors of Goldman Sachs as an independent director. On March 4, 2014, he announced that he would retire from Apple at the end of September, 2014.\n"}
{"id": "2285162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2285162", "title": "Peter Angelos", "text": "Peter Angelos\n\nPeter G. Angelos (born July 4, 1929) is an American trial lawyer. Angelos is also the majority owner of the Baltimore Orioles, a team in the American League of Major League Baseball.\n\nIn March 1996 Maryland hired Angelos to represent the state in its suit against tobacco companies with a 25% contingency fee. After Angelos filed suit on behalf of the state the trial court ruled that the state's recovery would be limited to subrogation of losses through programs such as Medicaid; this would have effectively ended the state's case. Angelos successfully lobbied the state legislature to change the law to allow the state's suit to proceed. The state legislature also cut Angelos' fee to 12.5%. Eventually he settled for $150 million paid over five years.\n\nAngelos is the son of John (a bar owner) and Frances Angelos, who immigrated to the United States from Menetes, Karpathos, Greece. Peter Angelos married Georgia Kousouris in 1966, and they had two children together, John and Louis. Angelos' family settled in the working-class neighborhood of Highlandtown, and lived in a row house. Angelos' father owned a local tavern, and his father mostly spoke Greek at home.\n\nAfter graduating from Patterson Park High School, Angelos attended the University of Baltimore, where he earned a bachelor's degree. He then attended law school at night at the University of Baltimore School of Law, studying so conscientiously that he was named class valedictorian. Angelos passed the bar in 1961 and opened an office specializing in handling product-liability cases for employees, almost always on a contingency basis. In one of his cases, he represented some 8,700 steelworkers, shipyard workers, and manufacturers' employees in a consolidated-action asbestos poisoning suit that was partially settled in 1992. Angelos' take from that litigation alone has been estimated at $330 million. He served a brief stint on the Baltimore City Council and ran for mayor on the city's first interracial ticket in 1967, and lost.\n\nAngelos also represented the state of Maryland in a suit against Philip Morris and suing Wyeth, the makers of part of the diet pill combination fen-phen. As of 2019, Angelos's law firm currently had offices in Baltimore, Towson, and Cumberland, Maryland; Philadelphia, Bethlehem, and Harrisburg, Pennsylvania; and Knoxville, Tennessee. The firm is headquartered in the historic One Charles Center building in downtown Baltimore, which designed by Ludwig Mies van der Rohe in 1962 and purchased by Angelos for $6 million in 1996.\nA lifelong Democrat, Angelos began his political career with an unsuccessful run for State Senate in 1958. He went on to hold a seat on the Baltimore City Council from 1959 to 1963. He was the first Greek-American to be elected to the council. Though Angelos became known for demanding governmental oversight and fiscal responsibility, few of his calls for investigations into city agencies and spending led to lasting change. In 1963 he ran unsuccessfully for City Council President, losing to Thomas D'Alesandro III, scion and namesake of a popular former Mayor of Baltimore. He lost the primary for the 1967 Baltimore Mayor's race (on the city's first racially integrated ticket, as Clarence Mitchell III was running for City Council President)—again to D'Alesandro, who received nearly 75% of the vote and went on to beat Republican Arthur W. Sherwood in the general election. Three times in the 1960s he unsuccessfully challenged Republican incumbents in the Maryland Legislature. He has also used his influence with the small business community to call for the continuation of Maryland's Contributory negligence laws while most of the United States has adopted the more equitable distributory negligence system.\n\nAngelos donated $272,000 to the independent expenditure-only committee (Super PAC) Draft Biden which sought to induce Vice President Joe Biden to enter the 2016 Democratic Primary for President.\n\nAngelos breeds and races Thoroughbred horses and in 1998 purchased the Ross Valley Farm in Baltimore County.\n\nIn 1993 Angelos assembled a group of investors to purchase the Orioles from New York venture capitalist Eli Jacobs. While Angelos was the principal investor, contributing $40 million, his fellow Oriole group owners included novelist Tom Clancy, filmmaker Barry Levinson, and tennis player Pam Shriver. On October 4, 1993, Jacobs sold the Orioles to Angelos' group for $173 million, the highest price paid for a sports franchise at that time. Angelos took over as managing partner and principal owner of the team. His official titles with the club are Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.\n\nAngelos immediately proved himself to be a hands-on owner who would be involved in major personnel decisions and who would be willing to pay high salaries to talented free agents. Under Angelos' direction, the Orioles signed four high-priced free agents in 1994: Rafael Palmeiro, Sid Fernandez, Chris Sabo, and Lee Smith. As one of the newest members of the elite group of baseball owners, Angelos was expected to abide by the owners' decisions quietly without offering any alternatives or using his experience with labor law to negotiate with the players' union. Angelos did not like that arrangement and he did not particularly care if the world found out.\n\nWhen the other owners signed a document cancelling the rest of the 1994 baseball season, including the World Series, Angelos refused to sign it because it blamed the players for the impasse. When the owners formed a committee to negotiate the strike, they did not include Angelos, despite his vast experience as a labor-management negotiator. When talks between the players and the owners stalled in December 1994, and the owners voted to impose a salary cap, Angelos was one of three dissenters to the arrangement. What brought him into the public eye, however, was his refusal to field replacement players should the strike last into the 1995 major league baseball season.\n\nAngelos announced his decision about replacement players early in 1995 and was hailed in blue-collar Baltimore as a champion of the worker. As his fellow owners mulled what action to take against Angelos—everything from a $250,000 fine for each game missed to forcing the sale of the Orioles—the strike was finally settled in time for regular season play with major leaguers. Angelos had made a statement with his stance, however, and a nation of baseball fans responded. He was deluged with mail from all over the country and treated with near-reverence by Orioles fans.\n\nAngelos arranged for a two-game exhibition series to be played between the Orioles and the Cuban national baseball team in 1999. The Orioles won the first game, played in Havana, while the Cuban team won the second game, held at Oriole Park at Camden Yards. In 2000, the team's general manager, Syd Thrift, told \"The Washington Times\" that the team had a practice of not signing players who had defected from Cuba, which he attributed to Angelos' desire to avoid doing \"anything that could be interpreted as being disrespectful\" by the Cuban government. Angelos denied the existence of such a policy. Subsequent investigations by Major League Baseball and the United States Department of Justice did not find evidence that the absence of Cuban players on the Orioles' roster or in its minor league system was due to discrimination.\n\nIn May 2009, a \"Sports Illustrated\" article reviewing owners of Major League Baseball franchises rated Angelos as the worst owner in the Major Leagues. The article notes that the methodology \"was not scientific\" and \"weighing heavily in the decision was the team's success or failure on the field.\" Two weeks later, Brady Anderson, a member of the Baltimore Orioles Hall of Fame, responded in an op-ed to \"The Baltimore Sun\", writing that Angelos deserves to be on a list of the \"best owners in baseball.\"\n\nOn April 16, 2010, a Fox Sports article suggested that Angelos allegedly denied a job to Cal Ripken, Jr. when Ripken offered to come work for the franchise in a supporting role to help the O's young talent develop. A day later, ESPN, MLB.com and \"The Baltimore Sun\" wrote that the Fox Sports story was inaccurate. Angelos denied that the two had spoken about potential opportunities with the Baltimore Orioles, but said he welcomed future discussions on the topic. On April 19, 2010, Cal Ripken Jr. issued a statement denying the Fox Sports story. In the statement, Ripken expressed an interest in returning to baseball and described his relationship with Angelos as \"very good.\" \n\nHe was named \"Marylander of the Year\" by \"The Baltimore Sun\" in 1988, with a citation that read: \"Measured by professional accomplishments and contributions to his city and region, he is the Marylander of this decade.\" Angelos was awarded the Ellis Island Medal of Honor in 1996.\n\nAngelos is known for various acts of charity and philanthropy, having contributed millions to civic and community institutions around Maryland. He is the largest individual donor to the University of Baltimore and pledged $5 million to the school in 2008. In 2010, \"The Baltimore Sun\" reported that Angelos had recently donated $10 million to the university. The same report notes that during the particularly hot summer of 2010, Angelos anonymously donated $300,000 to keep Baltimore city pools open.\n\n"}
{"id": "2285178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2285178", "title": "Bruch's membrane", "text": "Bruch's membrane\n\nBruch's membrane is the innermost layer of the choroid. It is also called the \"vitreous lamina\", because of its glassy microscopic appearance.\nIt is 2–4 μm thick.\n\nBruch's membrane consists of five layers (from inside to outside):\n\nThe retinal pigment epithelium transports metabolic waste from the photoreceptors across Bruch's membrane to the choroid.\n\nBruch's membrane is present by midterm in fetal development as an elastic sheet.\n\nBruch's membrane thickens with age, slowing the transport of metabolites. This may lead to the formation of drusen in age-related macular degeneration. There is also a buildup of deposits (Basal Linear Deposits or BLinD and Basal Lamellar Deposits BLamD) on and within the membrane, primarily consisting of phospholipids. The accumulation of lipids appears to be greater in the central fundus than in the periphery. This build up seems to fragment the membrane into a lamellar structure more like puff-pastry than a barrier. Inflammatory and neovascular mediators can then invite choroidal vessels to grow into and beyond the fragmented membrane. This neovascular membrane destroys the architecture of the outer retina and leads to sudden loss of central vision – wet age related macular degeneration.\n\nPseudoxanthoma elasticum, myopia and trauma can also cause defects in Bruch's membrane which may lead to choroidal neovascularization. Alport's Syndrome, a genetic disorder affecting the alpha(IV) collagen chains, can also lead to defects in the Bruch membrane such as 'dot and fleck' retinopathy.\n\nBruch's membrane was named after the German anatomist Karl Wilhelm Ludwig Bruch.\n\n"}
