{"id": "2263034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263034", "title": "American Solar Challenge", "text": "American Solar Challenge\n\nThe American Solar Challenge (ASC), previously known as the North American Solar Challenge and Sunrayce, is a solar car race across the United States. In the race, teams from colleges and universities throughout North America design, build, test, and race solar-powered vehicles in a long distance road rally-style event. ASC is a test of teamwork, engineering skill, and endurance that stretches across thousands of miles of public roads.\n\nASC 2016 took place from July 30 – August 6, on a 1,975 mile (3,178 km) route from Brecksville, Ohio to Hot Springs, South Dakota.\n\n\nOriginally called \"Sunrayce USA\", the first race was organized and sponsored by General Motors in 1990 in an effort to promote automotive engineering and solar energy among college students. At the time, GM had just won the inaugural World Solar Challenge in Australia in 1987; rather than continue actively racing, it instead opted to sponsor collegiate events.\n\nSubsequent races were held in 1993, 1995, 1997 and 1999 under the name \"Sunrayce [year]\" (e.g. Sunrayce 93). In 2001, the race was renamed \"American Solar Challenge\" and was sponsored by the United States Department of Energy and the National Renewable Energy Laboratory. Beginning in 2005, its name changed again to \"North American Solar Challenge\", in order to reflect the border crossing into Canada and the addition of co-sponsor Natural Resources Canada. The name was changed back to ASC in 2010.\n\nAfter the 2005 race, the U.S. Department of Energy discontinued its sponsorship, resulting in no scheduled race for 2007. Sponsorship was taken over for NASC 2008 by Toyota. The American Solar Challenge is now governed by the \"Innovators Educational Foundation\".\n\nThe original, Sunrayce USA route started at Disney World in Orlando, Florida and ended at the General Motors Technical Center in Warren, Michigan. The winner of the first race was the University of Michigan Solar Car Team's \"Sunrunner\", with an average speed of , followed by Western Washington University's \"Viking XX\".\n\nOverall Standings\n\nSunrayce 93 was held June 20–26, 1993. The race route covered over starting in Arlington, TX and ending in Minneapolis, Minnesota. The first place car was \"Maize & Blue\" from the University of Michigan followed by the \"Intrepid\" from Cal Poly Pomona.\n\nOverall Standings\n\nSunrayce 95 ran along a route from Indianapolis, Indiana to Golden, Colorado. Massachusetts Institute of Technology's \"Manta\" won the race with an average speed of , followed by the University of Minnesota's \"Aurora II\" just 18 minutes behind.\n\nOverall Standings\n\nSunrayce 1997 followed a familiar route from Indianapolis, Indiana to a finish line in Colorado Springs, Colorado.\nCalifornia State University-Los Angeles's \"Solar Eagle III\" won the nine-day Sunrayce 97. \"Solar Eagle III\" averaged , followed by MIT's \"Manta GT\" in second place.\n\nOverall Standings\n\nSunrayce 99, running from Washington, D.C., to Orlando, Florida, was notable for its lack of sunshine. The University of Missouri-Rolla's \"Solar Miner II\" won the race with an average speed of . The car from Queen's University placed second.\n\nOverall Standings\n\nIn 2001, the race changed its name to the American Solar Challenge and followed a new route from Chicago, Illinois to Claremont, California along much of the old U.S. Route 66. The University of Michigan won the overall race and the Open Class with a total elapsed time of 56 hours, 10 minutes, and 46 seconds, followed by the University of Missouri-Rolla. The University of Arizona team won the Stock Class event.\n\nOverall Standings\n\nThe 2003 American Solar Challenge also followed U.S. Route 66. \"Solar Miner IV\" from the University of Missouri-Rolla won the race overall, as well as the Open Class, followed by the University of Minnesota's \"Borealis II\". The Stock Class was won by the \"Prairie Fire GT\" from North Dakota State University.\n\nOverall Standings\n\nThe 2005 race, renamed the North American Solar Challenge, was both the longest and most hotly contested race in the history of the event. The route covered , taking the teams from Austin, Texas in the United States to Calgary, Alberta in Canada. The race was won by the \"Momentum\" from the University of Michigan with an average speed of . The University of Minnesota's \"Borealis III\" followed in second place less than 12 minutes behind, with an average speed of . The lead teams often drove (the maximum allowed), but were slowed by rain in Kansas and headwinds in Canada. Stanford University's \"Solstice\" won the Stock Class, followed in second place by the \"Beam Machine\" from The University of California, Berkeley.\n\nOverall Standings\n\nThe 2008 North American Solar Challenge took place on July 13–22, 2008, mostly along the 2005 route from Dallas, Texas to Calgary, Alberta. The University of Michigan's \"Continuum\" won the race with a total elapsed time of 51 hours, 41 minutes, and 53 seconds, marking that school's fifth victory. \"Ra 7\" from Principia College followed in second place.\n\nAs many of the top cars were bumping up against the race speed limit in the 2005 event, race rules were changed for 2008 order to improve safety and limit performance. Open class cars are now only allowed 6 square meters of active cell area, and upright seating is required for both open and stock class cars. The changes were carried over from the 2007 World Solar Challenge.\n\nOverall Standings\n\nThe 2010 race, renamed the American Solar Challenge, ran June 20–26, 2010. The University of Michigan finished in first place, followed by the University of Minnesota's \"Centaurus II\" in 2nd place and team Bochum from Germany in 3rd. The race route was entirely within the United States for the first time since 2003.\n\nOverall Standings\n\nOnly four teams finished the 2012 American Solar Challenge, a 1600-mile race from Rochester, NY to St. Paul, MN, under solar power alone. The University of Michigan's \"Quantum\" won the overall competition, over 10 hours ahead of the 2nd place team. The 2nd, 3rd, and 4th place teams were only an hour apart from each other. In order: Iowa State University's \"Hyperion\", Principia College's \"Ra7s\", and the University of California, Berkeley's \"Impulse\".\n\nOverall Standings\n\nThe 2014 American Solar Challenge reverted to the familiar south-north race route starting in Austin, Texas, and finishing in Minneapolis, Minnesota. The University of Michigan's \"Quantum\" once again took 1st place, followed by University of Minnesota's \"Centaurus III\". Both teams had brought back their cars from the 2012 event.\n\nOverall Standings\n\nThe 2016 American Solar Challenge ran from Brecksville, Ohio to Hot Springs, South Dakota from July 30 to August 6, 2016. ASC partnered with the National Park Service, and the route included stages and checkpoints at 9 national parks, historic sites, or partner properties throughout the Midwest. The University of Michigan's \"Aurum\" won the overall competition, by a margin of over 11 hours. In second place was the Dunwoody College of Technology team in partnership with Zurich University of Applied Sciences. The University of Minnesota's \"Eos I\" made history as the first Cruiser Class vehicle to ever compete in ASC.\n\nOverall Standings\n\nThe 2018 American Solar Challenge ran from Omaha, Nebraska to Bend, Oregon from July 14 to July 22, 2018. ASC partnered with the National Park Service, and the route included stages and checkpoints at historic sights along the Oregon Trail. It was the first to include a Cruiser Class, featuring more practical multi-occupant Solar Vehicles. Western Sydney University's car \"UNLIMITED 2.0\" won the Challenger class competition by a margin of 16 minutes—the closest finish in ASC history—as The University of Michigan failed to defend their title with their car \"Novum\". The University of Bologna won the inaugural Cruiser class competition, and the University of Waterloo became the first Canadian Cruiser Class vehicle to ever compete in ASC.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263047", "title": "Kurukshetra", "text": "Kurukshetra\n\nKurukshetra () is a city in the Indian state of Haryana. It is also known as Dharmakshetra (\"Holy Place\") and as the \"Land of the Bhagavad Gita\".\n\nAccording to the Puranas, Kurukshetra is a region named after King Kuru, the ancestor of Kauravas and Pandavas, as depicted in epic Mahabharata. The importance of the place is attributed to the fact that the Kurukshetra War of the Mahabharata is said to have taken place here. Thaneswar whose urban area is merged with Kurukshetra is a pilgrimage site with many locations attributed to Mahabharata.\n\nIn most ancient Hindu texts, Kurukshetra is not described as a city but a region (\"kshetra\" means \"region\" in Sanskrit). The boundaries of Kurukshetra correspond roughly to the central and western parts of the state of Haryana and southern Punjab. According to the Taittiriya Aranyaka 5.1.1., the Kurukshetra region is south of Turghna (Srughna/Sugh in Sirhind, Punjab), north of Khandava (Delhi and Mewat region), east of Maru (desert), and west of Parin.\n\nAccording to the Puranas, ancient Hindu texts, the region is named after King Kuru of the Bharata dynasty, who is also the ancestor of Pandavas and Kauravas. These texts also tell that the battle of Mahabharata was fought on this land.\n\nAccording to the Vamana Purana describes, King Kuru chose land at the banks of the now extinct Sarasvati River (believed to be dried up c. 1900 BCE) for embedding spirituality with eight virtues: austerity (Tapas), truth (Satya), forgiveness (Kshama), kindness (Daya), purity (Shuddha), charity (Daana), devotion (Yajna), and conduct (Brahmacharya). Lord Vishnu was impressed with the acts of King Kuru and blessed him with two boons—first, that this land forever will be known as a Holy Land after his name as Kurukshetra (the land of Kuru); second that anyone dying on this land will go to heaven.\n\nThe land of Kurukshetra was situated between two rivers—the Sarasvati and the Drishadvati.\n\nKurukshetra reached the zenith of its progress during the reign of King Harsha, during which Chinese scholar Xuanzang visited Thanesar.\n\nKurukshetra was conquered by the Mauryan empire in the late 4th century BCE and subsequently became a center of Buddhism and Hinduism. The history of Kurkushetra is little-known in between the collapse of the Mauryans and the rise of the Kushans who conquered the region. After the decline of Kushan power in the region, Kurkushetra became independent only to become conquered by the Gupta empire in the early 4th century CE. Under Gupta rule, Kurukshetra experienced a cultural and religious revival and became a center for Hinduism. After the fall of the Gupta, the Pushyabhuti dynasty ruled over Kurukshetra.\n\nCivil war broke out when Harsha (of the Pushyabhuti dynasty) died without a successor in 647. A Kashmiri army briefly conquered Kurukshetra in 733 but were unable to establish dominion in the area. In 736, the Tomara dynasty was founded and they took over the region. Around the early 9th century, Kurukshetra lost its independence to Bengal. Mahmud of Ghazni sacked Kurukshetra in 1014 and Muslim raiders sacked it in 1034. Kurukshetra was incorporated into the Delhi Sultanate in 1206. Other than a short moment of independence from the result of a rebellion within the Sultanate in 1240, Kurukshetra was under the control of Delhi until 1388.\n\nKurukshetra became independent once again after the steep decline of the Delhi Sultanate and the raids of Tamerlane near the region. The Sayyid dynasty incorporated Kurukshetra into their territory though the city likely enjoyed some autonomy. The area was much more firmly controlled under the subsequent Lodi dynasty. Some damages to Kurukshetra and its structures occurred during this period. Kurukshetra became part of the Mughal Empire after Babur quashed a local rebellion in 1526. Under Akbar, Kurukshetra once again became a spiritual center not only for Hindus but also for Sikhs and Muslims.\n\nBetween the late 17th and early 18th centuries, Kurukshetra was controlled by the forces of the Maratha Empire until the British took over Delhi in 1803. In 1805, the British took Kurukshetra after defeating the Maratha forces in the Second Anglo-Maratha War, who were controlling the city. Since 1947, Kurukshetra has become a popular spiritual center and has seen much infrastructure, development, and restoration of old structures.\n\nGita Jayanti has been celebrated in Kurukshetra for decades. For a long time, it was known as Kurukshetra Utsav. According to the Hindu calendar, the holiday comes on Mokshda Ekadashi in the month of Margshirsh.\n\nIn 2016, the government of Haryana decided to give the Gita Jayanti a global flavour and organised an International Gita Mahotsav at Kurukshetra from 1 to 11 December. The Gita Jayanti was celebrated on 10 December as dictated by the traditional calendar. Over 2 million people visited the event that year. Later, in 2017, Gita Jayanti was celebrated on 30 November as per the traditional calendar, and over 2.5 million people visited. The idea of celebrating International Gita Mahotsav came from Swami Gyananand (Founder of GIEO Gita). International Gita Mahotsav 2019 was organized from November 23, 2019 to December 10, 2019. The Haryana government spent over for organising the event.\n\nIn 2017, the government declared Kurukshetra a holy city and the sale, possession, and consumption of meat are banned within the limits of the Municipal Corporation due to its religious significance.\n\nThe climate of the district varies as the temperature in summer reaches as high as 47 °C, and as low 1 °C in winter, with rains in July and August.\n\nKurukshetra is an important Hindu pilgrimage destination, and there are several pilgrimage sites surrounding the city. The Hindi phrase \"48 kos parikrama\" refers to a roughly 90-km traditional circle (Parikrama) around the holy city (1 kos equals about 3.00 km or 1.91 miles), and a complete \"parikrama\" refers to a pilgrimage to all these sites on foot.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nRamdhari Singh 'Dinkar' wrote an epic poem titled \"Kurukshetra\", a narrative poem based on the \"Santi Parva\" of the Mahabharata. He wrote the poem when memories of the Second World War were fresh in his mind.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263059", "title": "Mountain Brook High School", "text": "Mountain Brook High School\n\nMountain Brook High School (MBHS) is a three-year public high school in the city of Mountain Brook, Alabama. It is the only high school in the Mountain Brook City School System. School colors are green and gold, and the athletic teams are called the Spartans. MBHS competes in AHSAA Class 7A athletics.\n\nMBHS is consistently recognized as one of the best high schools in Alabama:\n\n The Mountain Brook Spartans compete in Class 7A, Alabama's largest classification. The school holds 122 state championships, the most in Alabama.\n\nThe boys' basketball team won state championships in 2013, 2014, 2017, 2018 and 2019. They also reached the Final Four in 2001 and were the runner-up in 2015.\n\nThe girls' cross country team won 12 state championships in a row, since 2003, and the boys won the previous three state championships. The girls' cross country team had a 14-year state championship winning streak.\n\nThe boys tennis teams have won 23 state championships, the most in the state. The girls teams also hold the record for most state championships in the state with 23 wins.\n\nSpartan football won state championships in 1975 and 1976.\n\nIn 2013, 2014, 2015, 2017 and 2018 the Mountain Brook High School basketball team, led by coach Bucky McMillan, reached the state finals in Alabama's highest classification winning state championships in 2013, 2014,2017, and 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263065", "title": "Michael G. Turnbull", "text": "Michael G. Turnbull\n\nMichael G. Turnbull, FAIA (born April 13, 1949) is a Canadian-born American architect who has spent much of his career in the public sector as a custodian of major public buildings, notably the U.S. Capitol in Washington, DC as the Assistant to the Architect of the Capitol and as the Director of Design and Construction at the Art Institute of Chicago. In recognition of his achievements in architecture and his dedication in maintaining these national treasures, the American Institute of Architects elected him to the College of Fellows of the American Institute of Architects in 2005.\n\nHe was born in Stratford, Ontario, Canada. His father, Gordon McKinnon Turnbull, was a soldier and World War II veteran of The Royal Canadian Regiment, frequently stationed in Great Britain as part of Canada's contribution to the Imperial Forces of the British Empire defending the political and cultural center of the Empire, the United Kingdom, during the Battle of Britain. Michael's mother, Catherine Agnes Turnbull, was an Irish immigrant who had moved to Manchester, England following the Irish War of Independence and became a war bride during World War II, moving to Canada with her Canadian husband following his discharge. In 1960, on the same night of the U.S. presidential election, 1960 that saw the election of John F. Kennedy, Michael moved with his parents and brother Barry G. Turnbull to Chicago, Illinois and would become a U.S. citizen seven years later.\n\nGrowing up in the Chicago suburb of Oak Park, Illinois, home to renowned architect Frank Lloyd Wright, young Michael developed an interest in Wright's profession. While in Oak Park, Turnbull attended Oak Park and River Forest High School, graduating as a member of the Class of 1967. He later received his Bachelor of Architecture degree from the University of Illinois at Chicago.\n\nAfter several stints at private architectural firms, including Skidmore, Owings and Merrill, he entered the public sphere. In 1984, he became the Staff Architect for the Art Institute of Chicago, responsible for overseeing the expansion of the museum through the Rice Building addition and the museum's renovation of Buckingham Fountain for the Chicago Park District. By the time he left the museum in 1998, he was the Director of Design and Construction, one of the most senior officers at the art museum. While a resident of the Chicago metropolitan area, Mr. Turnbull served as a member of the Board of Governors of the Illinois St. Andrew Society.\n\nIn 1998, Mr. Turnbull became the 5th Assistant Architect of the Capitol, serving under Architect of the Capitol Stephen T. Ayers, FAIA. He is currently the representative of the Architect of the Capitol on the National Capital Memorial Advisory Commission and the Zoning Commission of the District of Columbia. Professionally, he is a member of the Society of College and University Planners, the American Planning Association, and of course the American Institute of Architects.\n\nAs Assistant Architect, Turnbull's most prominent projects included the renovation of the Dirksen Senate Office Building, repairs and modernization of the conservatory of the United States Botanic Garden, and the expansion and modernization of the United States Supreme Court building. The Supreme Court project was the most comprehensive Turnbull was responsible for, working closely with Justices Sandra Day O'Connor, Anthony Kennedy, and David Souter, as well as Sally Rider who served as Administrative Assistant to the Chief Justice under Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist. For his service to the Supreme Court of the United States, both Justices O'Connor and Kennedy recommended Turnbull for his Fellowship in the American Institute of Architects.\n\nTurnbull lives in Northern Virginia with his wife, Joan; they have two children.\n"}
{"id": "2263071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263071", "title": "Mascara and Monsters: The Best of Alice Cooper", "text": "Mascara and Monsters: The Best of Alice Cooper\n\nMascara and Monsters: The Best of Alice Cooper is a compilation album by rock singer, Alice Cooper, released by Warner Archives/Rhino in 2001 in the United States only. Its worldwide companion release is \"The Definitive Alice Cooper\" compilation album, which has a slightly different track listing and different packaging, though both compilations feature the same back cover and disc image. The album features material from his solo career and from his tenure with the Alice Cooper band; however, like the 1974 \"Greatest Hits\" compilation, material from \"Pretties for You\" and \"Easy Action\" is not present on \"Mascara and Monsters\".\n\nThe album cover features Cooper in the mid-1970s looking at his mascara-eyed monstrous alter-ego.\n"}
{"id": "2263090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263090", "title": "Myeongjong of Joseon", "text": "Myeongjong of Joseon\n\nMyeongjong of Joseon (3 July 1534 – 3 August 1567, r. 1545–1567) was the 13th king of the Joseon Dynasty of Korea. He was the second son of Jungjong, and his mother was Queen Munjeong, who was Jungjong's third queen.\n\nHe became king in 1545 at the age of 12 following the death of his half-brother, Injong. Since he was too young to rule the kingdom, Queen Munjeong governed the nation in his name.\n\nThere were two political factions at the time Myeongjong came to power; Greater Yun, headed by Yun Im, Injong's maternal uncle, and Lesser Yun, headed by Myeongjong's maternal uncles, Yun Won-hyeong and Yun Wonro. (Yun Im and Yun Brothers were close relatives by that period's standards - Yun Im was a third cousin once removed of Yun Brothers.) Greater Yun took power in 1544, when Injong succeeded Jungjong; but they failed to wipe out their opposition, since Queen Munjeong protected the Lesser Yun faction and other opposition officials.\n\nAfter the death of Injong in 1545, Lesser Yun replaced Greater Yun as the majority in the royal court and brutally ousted their adversaries in the Fourth Literati Purge of 1545. Yun Im was executed, as were many of his followers.\n\nThe Lesser Yun faction continued to attack their opposition. In 1546, Yun Won-hyeong impeached his older brother, Yun Won-ro, who was executed a few days later along with his followers. Facing no opposition from the government, Yun Won-hyeong became Minister of Personnel 이조판서 in 1548, Left State Councilor in 1551 and ultimately Chief State Councilor 영의정 in 1563.\n\nDespite Yun Won-hyeong's violent rule, Queen Munjeong was an effective administrator, distributing to the common people land formerly owned by the nobility. However, she held on to rule even after the king reached his majority at the age of 20.\n\nAfter the death of Queen Munjeong in 1565, the king decided to rule the kingdom by himself and had his uncle Yun Won-hyeong put to death, along with his second wife Jeong Nan-jeong, who also rose to power due to her close friendship and being second sister-in-law to Queen Munjeong. Yun Won-hyeong allowed corruption to flourish in the government; while the kingdom was unstable, Jurchens, Japanese, and rebellious troops rampaged at will and threatened the government itself. Rebel leader Im Kkeok-jeong was arrested and executed in 1552, but outside invasion continued; the Joseon Dynasty had to re-mobilize its army and navy along to protect its borders.\n\nMyeongjong tried to reform the government after taking power into his own hands by recalling and reinstating Sarim scholars who were exiled in the purge, but died only two years later without any male issue. King Seonjo, his half-nephew, succeeded to the throne in 1567.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263093", "title": "Kurukshetra War", "text": "Kurukshetra War\n\nThe Kurukshetra War, also called the Mahabharata War, is a war described in the Hindu epic poem \"Mahābhārata\". The conflict arose from a dynastic succession struggle between two groups of cousins, the Kauravas and Pandavas, for the throne of Hastinapura. It involved several ancient kingdoms participating as allies of the rival groups.\n\nThe location of the battle is described as having occurred in Kurukshetra in North India. Despite only referring to these eighteen days, the war narrative forms more than a quarter of the book, suggesting its relative importance within the epic, which overall spans decades of the warring families. The narrative describes individual battles and deaths of various heroes of both sides, military formations, war diplomacy, meetings and discussions among the characters, and the weapons used. The chapters (\"parvas\") dealing with the war (from chapter six to ten) are considered amongst the oldest in the entire \"Mahabharata\".\n\nThe historicity of the war remains subject to scholarly discussions. Attempts have been made to assign a historical date to the Kurukshetra War. Suggested dates range from 5561 to around 950 BCE, while popular tradition holds that the war marks the transition to Kaliyuga and thus dates it to 3102 BCE. It is possible that the Battle of the Ten Kings, mentioned in the Rigveda, may have \"formed the 'nucleus' of the story\" of the Kurukshetra war, though it was greatly expanded and modified in the \"Mahabharata\"'s account, which would, therefore, be of very dubious historicity.\n\n\"Mahabharata\", one of the most important Hindu epics, is an account of the life and deeds of several generations of a ruling dynasty called the Kuru clan. Central to the epic is an account of a war that took place between two rival families belonging to this clan. Kurukshetra (literally \"field of the Kurus\"), was the battleground on which this war, known as the Kurukshetra War, was fought. Kurukshetra was also known as \"Dharmakshetra\" (the \"field of Dharma\"), or field of righteousness. Mahabharata tells that this site was chosen because a sin committed on this land was forgiven on account of the sanctity of this land.. About 1.66 billions warriors death was described of war in the Indian epic.\n\nThe Kuru territories were divided into two and were ruled by Dhritarashtra (with his capital at Hastinapura) and Yudhishthira of the Pandavas (with his capital at Indraprastha). The immediate dispute between the Kauravas (sons of Dhritarashtra) and the Pandavas arose from a game of dice, which Duryodhana won by deceit, forcing his Pandava cousins to transfer their entire territories to the Kauravas (to Hastinapura) and to \"go into exile\" for thirteen years. The dispute escalated into a full-scale war when Duryodhana, driven by jealousy, refused to restore to the Pandavas their territories after the exile as earlier decided, because Duryodhana objected that they were discovered while in exile, and that no return of their kingdom had been agreed upon.\n\nIndian archeologist Swaraj Prakash Gupta and K.S. Ramachandran state that the\n\nThe historicity of the Kurukshetra War is subject to scholarly discussion and dispute. The existing text of the \"Mahabharata\" went through many layers of development, and mostly belongs to the period between c. 500 BCE and 400 CE. Within the frame story of the \"Mahabharata\", the historical kings Parikshit and Janamejaya are featured significantly as scions of the Kuru clan, and Michael Witzel concludes that the general setting of the epic has a historical precedent in Iron Age (Vedic) India, where the Kuru kingdom was the center of political power during roughly 1200 to 800 BCE. According to Professor Alf Hiltebeitel, the Mahabharata is essentially mythological. Indian historian Upinder Singh has written that:\n\nDespite the inconclusiveness of the data, attempts have been made to assign a historical date to the Kurukshetra War. Popular tradition holds that the war marks the transition to Kaliyuga and thus dates it to 3102 BCE. A number of other proposals have been put forward:\n\nThough the Kurukshetra War is not mentioned in Vedic literature, its prominence in later literature led British Indologist A. L. Basham, writing in 1954, to conclude that there was a great battle at Kurukshetra which, \"magnified to titanic proportions, formed the basis of the story of the greatest of India's epics, the Mahabharata.\" Acknowledging that later \"generations looked upon it as marking an end of an epoch,\" he suggested that rather than being a civil war it might have been \"a muddled recollection of the conquest of the Kurus by a tribe of Mongol type from the hills.\" He saw it as useless to the historian and dates the war to the 9th century BCE based on archaeological evidence and \"some evidence in the Brahmana literature itself to show that it cannot have been much earlier.\"\n\nAccording to Finnish Sindhologist Asko Parpola, the war may have taken place during the later phase of the Painted Grey Ware, circa 750-350 BCE. Parpola also notes that the Pandava heroes are not being mentioned in the Vedic literature from before the Grhyasutras. Parpola suggests that the Pandavas were Iranic migrants, who came to south Asia around 800 BCE.\n\nPuranic literature presents genealogical lists associated with the Mahabharata narrative. The evidence of the Puranas is of two kinds. Of the first kind, there is the direct statement that there were 1015 (or 1050) years between the birth of Parikshit (Arjun's grandson) and the accession of Mahapadma Nanda, commonly dated to 382 BCE, which would yield an estimate of about 1400 BCE for the Bharata battle. However, this would imply improbably long reigns on average for the kings listed in the genealogies.\n\nOf the second kind are analyses of parallel genealogies in the Puranas between the times of Adhisimakrishna (Parikshit's great-grandson) and Mahapadma Nanda. Pargiter accordingly estimated 26 generations by averaging 10 different dynastic lists and assuming 18 years for the average duration of a reign, arrived at an estimate of 850 BCE for Adhisimakrishna and thus approximately 950 BCE for the Bharata battle.\n\nIndian archeologist B. B. Lal used the same approach with a more conservative assumption of the average reign to estimate a date of 836 BCE and correlated this with archaeological evidence from Painted Grey Ware sites, the association being strong between PGW artifacts and places mentioned in the epic. John Keay confirm this and also gives 950 BCE for the Bharata battle.\n\n\"Jaya\", the core of Mahabharata, is structured in the form of a dialogue between Kuru king Dhritarashtra (born blind) and Sanjaya, his advisor and chariot driver. Sanjaya narrates each incident of the Kurukshetra War, fought in 18 days, as and when it happened. Dhritarashtra sometimes asks questions, expresses doubts and sometimes laments, knowing about the destruction caused by the war to his sons, friends, and kinsmen. He also feels guilt for his own actions that led to this war, so destructive to the entire Indian subcontinent.\n\nSome 18 chapters of Vyasa's Jaya comprise the Bhagavad Gita, one of the sacred texts of the Hindus. This work deals with diverse subjects like geography, history, warfare, religion and morality. According to the Mahabharata itself, the Jaya was recited to the King Janamejaya, the great-grandson of Arjuna, by Vaisampayana, a disciple of Vyasa (then called the \"Bharata\"). The recitation of Vaisampayana to Janamejaya was then recited again by a professional storyteller named Ugrasrava Sauti, many years later, to an assemblage of sages performing the 12-year-long sacrifice for King Saunaka Kulapati in the Naimisha forest (then called the \"Mahabharata\").\n\nIn the beginning, Sanjaya gives a description of the various continents of the Earth, the other planets, and focuses on the Indian Subcontinent, then gives an elaborate list of hundreds of kingdoms, tribes, provinces, cities, towns, villages, rivers, mountains, forests, etc. of the (ancient) Indian Subcontinent (Bharata Varsha). He also explains the military formations adopted by each side on each day, the death of each hero and the details of each war-racing.\n\nAs a last attempt at peace is called for in Rajadharma, Krishna, the chieftain of the Yadavas, lord of the kingdom of Dwaraka, traveled to the kingdom of Hastinapur to persuade the Kauravas to see reason, avoid bloodshed of their kin, and to embark upon a peaceful path with him as the \"Divine\" ambassador of the Pandavas. Duryodhana was insulted that Krishna had turned down his invitation to accommodate himself in the royal palace. Determined to stop & hinder the peace mission & adamant of going to war with the Pandavas, Duryodhana plotted to arrest Krishna, and insult, humiliate, and defame him in front of the entire royal court of Hastinapura as a challenge to the prestige of the Pandavas and declaration of an act of open war.\n\nAt the formal presentation of the peace proposal by Krishna in the Kuru Mahasabha, at the court of Hastinapur, Krishna asked Duryodhana to return Indraprastha to the Pandavas and restore the status quo; or, if not, give over at least five villages, one for each of the Pandavas. Duryodhana said he would not give land even as much as the tip of a needle to the Pandavas. Krishna's peace proposals were ignored and dismissed, and Duryodhana publicly ordered his soldiers, even after the warnings from all the elders, to arrest Krishna. Krishna laughed and displayed his divine form, radiating intense light. Lord Krishna cursed Duryodhana that his downfall was certain at the hands of the one who was sworn to tear off his thigh, to the shock of the blind king, who tried to pacify the Lord with words as calm as he could find. His peace mission utterly insulted by Duryodhana, Krishna returned to the Pandava camp at Upaplavya to inform the Pandavas that the only course left to uphold the principles of virtue and righteousness was inevitable - war. During his return, Krishna met Karna, Kunti's firstborn (before Yudhishthira), and requested him to help his brothers and fight on the side of dharma. However, being helped by Duryodhana, Karna said to Krishna that he would battle against Pandavas as he had a debt to pay.\n\nDuryodhana and Arjuna go to Krishna at Dwarka to ask for his help and that of his army. Duryodhana arrived first and found Krishna asleep. Being arrogant and viewing himself as equal to Krishna, Duryodhana chose a seat at Krishna's head and waited for him to rouse. Arjuna arrived later and being a humble devotee of Krishna, chose to sit and wait at Krishna's feet. When Krishna woke up, he saw Arjuna first and gave him the first right to make his request. Krishna told Arjuna and Duryodhana that he would give the Narayani Sena to one side and himself as a non-combatant to the other. Since Arjuna was given the first opportunity to choose, Duryodhana was worried that Arjuna would choose the mighty army of Krishna. When given the choice of either Krishna's army or Krishna himself on their side, Arjuna on behalf of the Pandavas chose Krishna, unarmed on his own, relieving Duryodhana, who thought Arjuna to be the greatest fool. Later Arjuna requested Krishna to be his charioteer and Krishna, being an intimate friend of Arjuna, agreed wholeheartedly and hence received the name Parthasarthy, or 'charioteer of the son of Pritha'. Both Duryodhana and Arjuna returned satisfied.\n\nWhile camping at Upaplavya in the territory of Virata the Pandavas gathered their armies. Contingents arrived from all parts of the country and soon the Pandavas had a large force of seven divisions. The Kauravas managed to raise an even larger army of eleven divisions. Many kingdoms of ancient India such as Dwaraka, Kasi, Kekaya, Magadha, Chedi, Matsya, Pandya, and the Yadus of Mathura were allied with the Pandavas; while the allies of the Kauravas comprised the kings of Pragjyotisha, Kalinga, Anga, Kekaya, Sindhudesa, Avanti in Madhyadesa, Gandharas, Bahlikas, Mahishmati, Kambojas (with the Yavanas, Sakas, Trilinga, Tusharas) and many others.\n\nSeeing that there was now no hope for peace, Yudhishthira, the eldest of the Pandavas, asked his brothers to organize their army. The Pandavas accumulated seven Akshauhinis army with the help of their allies. Each of these divisions were led by Drupada, Virata, Abhimanyu, Shikhandi, Satyaki, Nakula and Sahadeva. After consulting his commanders, the Pandavas appointed Dhrishtadyumna as the supreme commander of the Pandava army. The \"Mahabharata\" says that kingdoms from all over ancient India supplied troops or provided logistic support on the Pandava side. Some of these were: Kekaya, Pandya (Malayadwaja Pandya), Magadha, and many more.\n\nThe Kaurava army consisted of 11 Akshauhinis. Duryodhana requested Bhishma to command the Kaurava army. Bhishma accepted on the condition that, while he would fight the battle sincerely, he would not harm the five Pandava brothers. Also, Bhishma said that Karna would rather not fight under him, but serve as Duryodhana's bodyguard, as long as he was in the battlefield. Having little choice, Duryodhana agreed to Bhishma's conditions and made him the supreme commander of the Kaurava army, while Karna was debarred from fighting. But Karna entered the war later when Bhishma was severely wounded by Arjuna. Apart from the one hundred Kaurava brothers, headed by Duryodhana himself and his brother Dussasana, the Kauravas were assisted on the battlefield by Drona and his son Ashwatthama, the Kauravas' brother-in-law Jayadratha, the Brahmin Kripa, Kritavarma, Shalya, Sudakshina, Bhurishravas, Bahlika, Shakuni, Bhagadatta and many more who were bound by their loyalty towards either Hastinapura or Dhritarashtra.\n\nThe kingdom of Bhojakata, with its King Rukmi, Vidura, the ex-prime minister of Hastinapur and younger brother to Dhritarashtra, and Balarama were the only neutrals in this war. Rukmi wanted to join the war, but Arjuna refused to allow him because he had lost to Krishna during Rukmini's swayamvar and yet he boasted about his war strength and army, whereas Duryodhana did not want Arjuna's reject. Vidura did not want to see the bloodshed of the war and was insulted extremely by Duryodhana, although he was the embodiment of Dharma himself and would have won the war for the Kauravas. The powerful Balarama refused to fight at Kurukshetra because he was both Bhima's and Duryodhana's coach in gadayudh (fighting with maces) and his brother Krishna is on the other side.\n\nThe combined number of warriors and soldiers in both armies was approximately 3.94 million. Each \"Akshauhini\" was under a commander or a general, apart from the commander-in-chief or the generalissimo who was the head of the entire army.\n\nDuring the Kurukshetra War, various types of weapons were used by prominent warriors as well as ordinary soldiers. The weapons included: the bow, the mace, the sword, the lance and the dart. Almost all prominent warriors used bows, including the Pandavas, the Kauravas, Bhishma, Drona, Karna, Arjuna, Satyaki, Drupada, Jayadratha, Abhimanyu, Kripa, Kritavarma, Dhrishtadyumna and Shalya. However, many of them frequently used other weapons as well, for instance; the mace was used by Bhima, Duryodhana, Shalya, and Karna; the sword by Nakula, Satyaki, Jayadratha, Dhrishtadyumna, Karna and Kripa; and the lance by Karna, Yudhishthira, Shalya and Sahadeva.\n\nThe two supreme commanders met and framed \"rules of ethical conduct\", dharmayuddha, for the war. The rules included:\n\nMost of these rules were broken in the course of the war after the fall of Bhishma. For example, the second and sixth rules were violated on the 13th day, when Abhimanyu was slain.\n\nIt was observed that the year in which the Mahabharata War took place, the year had three solar eclipses on earth in thirty days. Eclipses are considered ill for life on earth according to Hindu astrology.\n\nOn the first day of the war, as would be on all the following days, the Kaurava army stood facing west and the Pandava army stood facing east. The Kaurava army was formed such that it faced all sides: elephants formed its body; the kings, its head; and the steeds, its wings. Bhishma, in consultation with his commanders Drona, Bahlika and Kripa, remained in the rear.\n\nThe Pandava army was organised by Yudhishthira and Arjuna in the Vajra formation. Because the Pandava army was smaller than the Kaurava's, they decided to employ the tactic of each warrior engaging as many enemies as possible. This involved an element of surprise, with the bowmen showering arrows hiding behind the frontal attackers. The attackers in the front were equipped with short-range weapons like maces, battle-axes, swords, and lances.\n\nTen divisions (\"Akshauhinis\") of the Kaurava army were arranged in a formidable phalanx. The eleventh was put under the immediate command of Bhishma, partly to protect him. The safety of the supreme commander Bhishma was central to Duryodhana's strategy, as he had placed all his hope on the great warrior's abilities. Dushasana, the younger brother of Duryodhana, was the military officer-in-charge of Bhishma's protection.\n\nWhen the war was declared and the two armies were facing each other, Arjuna realized that he would have to kill his dear granduncle (Bhishma), on whose lap he had played as a child and his respected teacher (Drona), who had held his hand and taught him how to hold the bow and arrow, making him the greatest archer in the world. Arjuna felt weak and sickened at the prospect of killing his entire family, including his 100 cousins and friends such as Ashwatthama. Despondent and confused about what is right and what is wrong, Arjuna turned to Krishna for divine advice and teachings. Krishna, who Arjuna chose as his charioteer, advised him of his duty. This conversation forms the Bhagavad Gita, one of the most respected religious and philosophical texts in the Hindu religion. Krishna instructs Arjuna not to yield to degrading impotence and to fight his kin, for that was the only way to righteousness. He also reminded him that this was a war between righteousness and unrighteousness (dharma and adharma) and it was Arjuna's duty to slay anyone who supported the cause of unrighteousness, or sin. Krishna then revealed his divine form and explained that he is born on earth in each eon when evil raises its head. It also forms one of the foremost treatises on the several aspects of Yoga and mystical knowledge.\n\nBefore the battle began, Yudhishthira did something unexpected. He suddenly dropped his weapons, took off his armor, and started walking towards the Kaurava army with folded hands in prayer. The Pandava brothers and the Kauravas looked on in disbelief, thinking Yudhishthira was surrendering before the first arrow was shot. Yudhishthira's purpose became clear, however, when he fell on Bhishma's feet to seek his blessing for success in battle. Bhishma, the grandfather to both the Pandavas and Kauravas, blessed Yudhishthira. Yudhishthira returned to his chariot and the battle was ready to commence.\n\nWhen the battle was commenced, Arjuna created \na Vajra formation and Bhishma went through the Pandava formation wreaking havoc wherever he went, but Abhimanyu, Arjuna's son, seeing this went straight at Bhishma, defeated his bodyguards and directly attacked the commander of the Kaurava forces. However, the young warrior couldn't match the prowess of Bhishma and was defeated. The Pandavas suffered heavy losses and were defeated at the end of the first day. Virata's sons, Uttara and Sweta, were slain by Shalya and Bhishma. Krishna consoled the distraught Yudhishthira saying that eventually, victory would be his.\n\nThe second day of the war commenced with a confident Kaurava army facing the Pandavas. Arjuna, realizing that something needed to be done quickly to reverse the Pandava losses, decided that he had to try to kill Bhishma. Krishna skillfully located Bhishma's chariot and steered Arjuna toward him. Arjuna tried to engage Bhishma in a duel, but the Kaurava soldiers placed a cordon around Bhishma to protect him and attacked Arjuna to try to prevent him from directly engaging Bhishma. Arjuna and Bhishma fought a fierce battle that raged for hours. Drona and Dhrishtadyumna similarly engaged in a duel in which Drona defeated Dhrishtadyumna. Bhima intervened and rescued Dhrishtadyumna. Duryodhana sent the troops of Kalinga to attack Bhima and most of them, including the king of Kalinga, lost their lives at his hands. Bhishma immediately came to relieve the battered Kalinga forces. Satyaki, who was assisting Bhima, shot at Bhishma's charioteer and killed him. Bhishma's horses, with no one to control them, bolted carrying Bhishma away from the battlefield. The Kaurava army had suffered great losses at the end of the second day and was considered defeated.\n\nOn the third day, Bhishma arranged the Kaurava forces in the formation of an eagle with himself leading from the front, while Duryodhana's forces protected the rear. Bhishma wanted to be sure of avoiding any mishap. The Pandavas countered this by using the crescent formation with Bhima and Arjuna at the head of the right and the left horns, respectively. The Kauravas concentrated their attack on Arjuna's position. Arjuna's chariot was soon covered with arrows and javelins. Arjuna, with amazing skill, built a fortification around his chariot with an unending stream of arrows from his bow. Abhimanyu and Satyaki combined to defeat the Gandhara forces of Shakuni. Bhima and his son Ghatotkacha attacked Duryodhana in the rear. Bhima's arrows hit Duryodhana, who swooned in his chariot. His charioteer immediately drove them out of danger. Duryodhana's forces, however, saw their leader fleeing the battlefield and soon scattered. Bhishma soon restored order and Duryodhana returned to lead the army. He was angry at Bhishma, however, at what he saw as leniency towards the five Pandava brothers and spoke harshly at his commander. Bhishma, stung by this unfair charge, fell on the Pandava army with renewed vigor. It was as if there were more than one Bhishma on the field.\n\nArjuna attacked Bhishma trying to restore order. Arjuna and Bhishma again engaged in a fierce duel, however, Arjuna's heart was not in the battle as he did not like the idea of attacking his grand-uncle. During the battle, Bhishma killed numerous soldiers of Arjuna's armies.\n\nThe fourth day of the battle was noted for the valor shown by Bhima. Bhishma commanded the Kaurava army to move on the offensive from the outset. While Abhimanyu was still in his mother's womb, Arjuna had taught Abhimanyu on how to break the chakra vyuha. But, before explaining how to exit the chakra Vyuha, Arjuna was interrupted by Krishna (another story is that Abhimanyu's mother falls asleep while Arjuna was explaining the chakra vyuha exit strategy). Thus from birth, Abhimanyu only knew how to enter the Chakra vyuha but didn't know how to come out of it. When the Kauravas formed the chakravyuha, Abhimanyu entered it but was surrounded and attacked by many Kaurava princes. Arjuna joined the fray in aid of Abhimanyu. Bhima appeared on the scene with his mace aloft and started attacking the Kauravas. Duryodhana sent a huge force of elephants at Bhima. When Bhima saw the mass of elephants approaching, he got down from his chariot and attacked them singlehandedly with his iron mace. They scattered and stampeded into the Kaurava forces killing many. Duryodhana ordered an all-out attack on Bhima. Bhima withstood all that was thrown at him and attacked Duryodhana's brothers, killing eight of them. Bhima was soon struck by an arrow from Dushasana, the second-eldest Kaurava, on the chest and sat down in his chariot dazed.\n\nDuryodhana was distraught at the loss of his brothers. Overwhelmed by sorrow, he went to Bhishma at the end of the fourth day of the battle and asked his commander how could the Pandavas, facing a superior force against them, still prevail and win.\nArjuna used the Aindra-Astra which killed thousands of Rathis, Atirathis, Elephants, and horses.\n\nBhishma replied that the Pandavas had justice on their side and advised Duryodhana to seek peace.\n\nWhen the battle resumed on the fifth day, the slaughter continued. The Pandava army again suffered from Bhishma's attacks. Satyaki bore the brunt of Drona's attacks and could not withstand them. Bhima drove by and rescued Satyaki. Arjuna fought and killed thousands of soldiers sent by Duryodhana to attack him. Bhima engaged in a fierce duel with Bhishma, which remained inconclusive. Drupada and his son Shikandi drove to aid Bhima in his fight against Bhishma, but they were stopped by Vikarna, one of Duryodhana's brothers, who attacked them with his arrows, injuring both father and son badly. The unimaginable carnage continued during the ensuing days of the battle.\n\nThe sixth day was marked by a prodigious slaughter. Drona caused an immeasurable loss of life on the Pandava side. The formations of both the armies were broken. However, Bhima managed to penetrate the Kaurava formation and attack Duryodhana. Duryodhana was defeated but was rescued by others. The Upapandavas (sons of Draupadi) fought with Ashwathama and destroyed his chariot. The day's battle ended with the defeat of the Kauravas.\n\nOn the seventh day, Drona slew Shanka, a son of Virata. Yuyuthsu was injured by Kripacharya in a sword fight. Nakula and Sahadeva fight Duryodhana's brothers but are overwhelmed by the number of them. The terrific carnage continued, and the day's battle ended with the victory of the Kauravas.\n\nOn the eighth day, Bhima killed 17 of Dhritarashtra's sons. Iravan, the son of Arjuna, and the snake-princess Ulupi killed five brothers of Shakuni, princes hailing from Gandhara. Duryodhana sent the Rakshasa fighter Alamvusha to kill Iravan, and the latter was killed by the Rakshasa after a fierce fight. The day ended with a crushing defeat of the Kauravas.\n\nOn the ninth day, Krishna, overwhelmed by anger at the apparent inability of Arjuna to defeat Bhishma, rushed towards the Kaurava commander, jumping furiously from the chariot taking the wheel of a fallen chariot in his hands. According to some texts, Bhishma, however, tried to attack Krishna with his arrows when the entire cosmos comes to rest and the time arrives for Bhishma as instructed by his mother Ganga to learn the actual dharma when Krishna reveals himself as the \"Supreme Parabrahman\" after which Bhishma laid down his arms and stood ready to die at the hands of the Lord, but Arjuna stopped him, reminding of his promise not to wield a weapon. Realizing that the war could not be won as long as Bhishma was standing, Krishna suggested the strategy of placing a eunuch in the field to face him. Some sources however state that it was Yudhishthira who visited Bhishma's camp at night asking him for help. To this Bhishma said that he would not fight a eunuch.\n\nOn the tenth day, the Pandavas, unable to withstand Bhishma's prowess, decided to put Shikhandi, who had been a woman in a prior life, in front of Bhishma, as Bhishma has taken a vow not to attack a woman. Shikhandi's arrows fell on Bhishma without hindrance. Arjuna positioned himself behind Shikhandi, protecting himself from Bhishma's attack and aimed his arrows at the weak points in Bhishma's armor. Soon, with arrows sticking from every part of his body, the great warrior fell from his chariot. His body did not touch the ground as it was held aloft by the arrows protruding from his body.\n\nThe Kauravas and Pandavas gathered around Bhishma and at his request, Arjuna placed three arrows under Bhishma's head to support it. Bhishma had promised his father, King Shantanu, that he would live until Hastinapur was secured from all directions. To keep this promise, Bhishma used the boon of \"Ichcha Mrityu\" (self-wished death) given to him by his father. After the war was over, when Hastinapur had become safe from all sides and after giving lessons on politics and Vishnu Sahasranama to the Pandavas, Bhishma died on the first day of Uttarayana.\n\nWith Bhishma unable to continue, Karna entered the battlefield, much to Duryodhana's joy. He made Drona the supreme commander of the Kaurava forces, according to Karna's suggestion. Duryodhana wanted to capture Yudhishthira alive. Killing Yudhishthira in battle would only enrage the Pandavas more, whereas holding him as hostage would be strategically useful. Drona formulated his battle plans for the eleventh day to this aim. He cut down Yudhishthira's bow and the Pandava army feared that their leader would be taken, prisoner. Arjuna rushed to the scene, however, and with a flood of arrows stopped Drona.\n\nWith his attempts to capture Yudhishthira thwarted, Drona confided to Duryodhana that it would be difficult as long as Arjuna was around. So, he ordered the Samsaptakas (the Trigarta warriors headed by Susharma, who had vowed to either conquer or die) to keep Arjuna busy in a remote part of the battlefield, an order which they readily obeyed, on account of their old hostilities with the Pandava scion. However, Arjuna managed to defeat them before the afternoon, and then faced Bhagadatta, the ruler of Pragjyotisha (modern-day Assam, India), who had been creating havoc among the Pandava troops, defeating great warriors like Bhima, Abhimanyu and Satyaki. Bhagadatta fought with Arjuna riding on his gigantic elephant named Supratika. Arjuna and Bhagadatta fought a fierce duel, and finally Arjuna succeeded in defeating and killing his antagonist. Drona continued his attempts to capture Yudhishthira. The Pandavas, however, fought hard and delivered severe blows to the Kaurava army, frustrating Drona's plans.\n\nOn the 13th day, Drona arrayed his troops in the Chakra/Padma/Kamala formation, a very complex and almost impenetrable formation. His target remained the same, that is, to capture Yudhishthira. Among the Pandavas, only Arjuna and Krishna knew how to penetrate this formation, and to prevent them from doing so, the Samsaptakas led by Susharma again challenged Arjuna and kept him busy at a remote part of the battlefield the whole day. Arjuna killed thousands of Samsaptakasa, however, he couldn't exterminate all of them.\n\nOn the other side of the battlefield, the remaining four Pandavas and their allies were finding it impossible to break Drona's Chakra formation. Yudhishthira instructed, Abhimanyu, the son of Arjuna and Subhadra, to break the Chakra/Padma formation. Abhimanyu knew the strategy of entering the Chakra formation, but did not know how to exit it so the Pandava heroes followed him to protect him from any potential danger. As soon as Abhimanyu entered the formation, however, King Jayadratha stopped the Pandava warriors. He held at bay the whole Pandava army, thanks to a boon obtained from Lord Shiva, and defeated Bhima and Satyaki.\n\nInside the Chakra/Kamala formation, Abhimanyu slew tens of thousands of warriors. Some of them included Vrihadvala (the ruler of Kosala), the ruler of Asmaka, Martikavata (the son of Kritavarma), Rukmaratha (the son of Shalya), Shalya's younger brother, Lakshmana (the son of Duryodhana) and many others. He also managed to defeat great warriors like Drona, Ashwatthama, Kritavarma, and others.\n\nFacing the prospect of the complete annihilation of their army, the Kaurava commanders devised a strategy to deter Abhimanyu from causing further damage to their force. According to Drona's instructions, six warriors together attacked Abhimanyu (the warriors included Drona himself, Karna, Kripa and Kritavarma), and deprived Abhimanyu of his chariot, bow, sword, and shield. Abhimanyu, however, determined to fight, picked up a mace, smashed Ashwatthma's chariot (upon which the latter fled), killed one of Shakuni's brothers and numerous troops, and elephants, and finally encountered the son of Dussasana in a mace-fight. The latter was a strong mace-fighter, and an exhausted Abhimanyu was defeated and killed by his adversary.\n\nUpon learning of the death of his son, Arjuna vowed to kill Jayadratha on the morrow before the battle ended at sunset, otherwise, he would jump himself into the fire.\n\nWhile searching for Jayadrath on the battlefield, Arjuna slew 7 akshauhinis (a battle formation that consisted of 153,090 chariots (Sanskrit Ratha); 153,090 elephants; 459,270 cavalries and 765450 infantry) of Kaurav soldiers. By Shakuni's plot, Duryodhana hid Jayadrath in their camp, since if Arjuna failed to kill Jayadrath he had vowed to throw himself into the fire, which would make war easier for the Kauravas. Lord Krishna fakes sunset using his Sudarshan Chakra and all the Kauravas insult and jeers at Arjuna, reminding him of his vow. Arjuna simply says to Krishna \"it must have been your wish, Madhav\" and starts walking towards the fire. Jayadratha, informed of the sunset by soldiers, starts towards Kurukshetra to kill Arjuna, but Shakuni soon learns of Krishna's plot and returns to Duryodhan. However Jayadrath returns to the battlefield where Shakuni reveals it's just Krishna's plot. Lord Krishna removes the chakra, removing the sunset environment. Jayadrath warns Arjuna if his head falls on the ground due to his bow he would be fired too, because of his boon by his father. Arjuna uses \"Divyastra\" to carry Jayadrath's head to his father leading to his own father's death. Many maharathis including Drona, Karna try to protect Jayadratha but fail to do so. Arjuna warns that everyone who supported adharma will be pathetically killed in this war.\n\nWhile Arjuna destroyed the rest of the Shakatavuyha, Vikarna, the third eldest Kaurava, challenged Arjuna to an archery fight. Arjuna asked Bhima to kill Vikarna, but Bhima refused because Vikarna had defended the Pandavas during the Draupadi Vastrapaharanam. Bhima and Vikarna showered arrows at each other. Later Bhima threw his mace at Vikarna, killing him. The muscular Pandava was devastated and mourned his death saying he was a man of Dharma and it was a pity how he lived his life. Drona killed Vrihatkshatra, the ruler of Kekaya and Dhrishtakethu, the ruler of Chedi.\n\nThe battle continued past sunset. Dushasana's son, Durmashana, was slain by Prativindya, the eldest son of Draupadi and Yudhishthira, in a duel. When the bright moon rose, Ghatotkacha, the rakshasa son of Bhima, slaughtered numerous warriors, like Alambusha and Alayudha attacking while flying in the air. Karna stood against him and both fought fiercely until Karna released the Shakti, a divine weapon given to him by Indra. Ghatotkacha increased his size and fell dead on the Kaurav army killing an Akshauhini of them.\n\nAfter King Drupada and King Virata were slain by Drona, Bhima and Dhrishtadyumna fought him on the fifteenth day. Because Drona was very powerful and invincible, having the irresistible Brahmanda astra, Krishna hinted to Yudhishthira that Drona would give up his arms if his son Ashwatthama were dead. Bhima proceeded to kill an elephant named Ashwatthama and loudly proclaimed that Ashwatthama was dead. Drona approached Yudhishthira to seek the truth of his son's death. Yudhishthira proclaimed \"Ashwatthama Hatahath, Naro Va Kunjaro Va\", implying Ashwatthama had died but he was not sure whether it was Drona's son or an elephant, The latter part of his proclamation (Naro va Kunjaro va) was drowned out by the sound of a conch blown by Krishna intentionally (a different version of the story is that Yudhishthira pronounced the last words so feebly that Drona could not hear the word elephant). Before this incident, the chariot of Yudhishthira proclaimed as \"Dharma Raja\" (King of Righteousness), hovered a few inches off the ground. After the event, the chariot landed on the ground as he lied.\n\nDrona was disheartened and laid down his weapons. He was then killed by Dhrishtadyumna to avenge his father's death and satisfy his vow. Later, the Pandava's mother Kunti secretly met her abandoned son Karna and requested him to spare the Pandavas, as they were his younger brothers. Karna promised Kunti that he would spare them except for Arjuna, but also added that he would not fire the same weapon against Arjun twice.\n\nOn the sixteenth day, Karna was made the supreme commander of the Kuru army. Karna fought valiantly but was surrounded and attacked by Pandava generals, who were unable to prevail upon him. Karna inflicted heavy damage on the Pandava army, which fled. Then Arjuna successfully resisted Karna's weapons with his own and also inflicted casualties upon the Kaurava army. \nKarna's son Banasena was killed by Bhima in front of Karna himself, and later, when Bhima and Karna fought, Karna was on the verge of death but was left alive by Bhima to help Arjuna fulfill his vow of killing Karna.\nOn the same day, Bhima swung his mace and shattered Dushasana's chariot. Bhima seized Dushasana, ripped his right arm from his shoulder, and killed him, tearing open his chest, drinking his blood, and carrying some to smear on Draupadi's untied hair, thus fulfilling his vow made when Draupadi was humiliated. The sun soon set and with darkness and dust making the assessment of proceedings difficult, the Kaurava army retreated for the day.\n\nOn the 17th day, Arjuna killed Susharma, Trigartas and Samsaptakas. Bhima defeated Karna and made him unconscious. Shalya took Karna away from battle-field. Karna returned to battle field again and defeated the Pandava brothers Nakula, Sahadeva, and Yudhishthira in battle but spared their lives. Arjuna entered place where Karna and his son Vrishasena were vanquishing Pandava army. Arjuna gave the challenge to Karna to save his son and attacked Vrishasena fiercely and fired four razor headed arrows, cutting off Vrishasena's bow, his two arms and then his head infront of Karna, who failed to protect his son.\nKarna became inconsolable after seeing his son's fate. He engaged a long duel with Arjuna. The much anticipated battle between Arjuna and Karna took place fiercely. During their duel, Karna's chariot wheel got stuck in the mud and Karna asked for a pause. Krishna reminded Arjuna about Karna's ruthlessness unto Abhimanyu while he was similarly left without chariot and weapons. Hearing his son's fate, Arjuna shot his arrow and decapitated Karna.\n\nOn the 18th day, Shalya took over as the commander-in-chief of the remaining Kaurava forces. Yudhishthira killed king Shalya in spear combat and Sahadeva killed Shakuni. Nakula kills Shakuni’s son Uluka. Realizing that he had been defeated, Duryodhana fled the battlefield and took refuge in the lake, where the Pandavas caught up with him. Under the supervision of the now returned Balarama, a mace battle took place between Bhima and Duryodhana. Bhima broke the rules (under instructions from Krishna), and struck Duryodhana below the waist, leaving him mortally wounded.\n\nAshwatthama, Kripacharya, and Kritavarma gathered at Duryodhana's deathbed and promised to avenge the actions of Bhima. They attacked the Pandavas' camp later that night and killed all the Pandavas' remaining army including their children. Amongst the dead were Dhrishtadyumna, Shikhandi, Uttamaujas, and children of Draupadi. Other than the Pandavas and Krishna, only Satyaki and Yuyutsu survived.\n\nAt the end of the 18th day, only twelve major warriors survived the war—the five Pandavas, Krishna, Satyaki, Ashwatthama, Kripacharya, Yuyutsu, Vrishaketu, and Kritvarma. Yudhishthira was crowned king of Hastinapur. After ruling for 36 years, he renounced the throne, passing the title on to Arjuna's grandson, Parikshit. He then left for the Himalayas with Draupadi and his brothers. Draupadi and four Pandavas—Bhima, Arjuna, Nakula and Sahadeva died during the journey. Yudhishthira, the lone survivor and being of pious heart, was invited by Dharma to enter the heavens as a mortal.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263098", "title": "Fellow of the American Institute of Architects", "text": "Fellow of the American Institute of Architects\n\nFellow of the American Institute of Architects (FAIA) is a postnominal title or membership, designating an individual who has been named a fellow of the American Institute of Architects.\n\nFellowship is bestowed by the Institute on AIA-member architects who have made outstanding contributions to the profession through design excellence, contributions in the field of architectural education, or to the advancement of the profession. In 2014, fewer than 3,200 of the more than 80,000 AIA members were fellows. Honorary Fellowship (Hon. FAIA) is awarded to foreign (non-U.S. citizen) architects, and to non-architects who have made substantial contributions to the field of architecture or to the Institute.\n\nFellowships are awarded according to the following categories of nomination:\n\nArchitects recognized with FAIA include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263125", "title": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (A)", "text": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (A)\n"}
{"id": "2263130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263130", "title": "Flat Shoals, North Carolina", "text": "Flat Shoals, North Carolina\n\nFlat Shoals is a small unincorporated community in Stokes County, North Carolina, United States, approximately four miles southwest of county seat Danbury, near Hanging Rock State Park.\n"}
{"id": "2263146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263146", "title": "Ursari", "text": "Ursari\n\nThe Ursari (generally read as \"bear leaders\" or \"bear handlers\"; from the , meaning \"bear\"; singular: \"ursar\"; Bulgarian: урсари, \"ursari\") or Richinara are the traditionally nomadic occupational group of animal trainers among the Romani people.\n\nAn endogamous category originally drawing the bulk of its income from busking performances in which they used dancing bears, usually brown bears and, in several instances, Old world monkeys. They have largely become settled after the 1850s. The Ursari form an important part of the Roma community in Romania, where they are one of the 40 tribal groups, as well as notable segments of the Bulgarian Roma population and of the one in Moldova. They also form a sizable part of the Roma present in Serbia and Western European countries such as the Netherlands and Italy.\n\nThe word \"Ursari\" may also refer to a dialect of Balkan Romani, as spoken in Romania and Moldova, although it is estimated that most Ursari, like the Boyash, speak Romanian as their native language. There is no scholarly consensus on whether Ursari belong to the Sinti subgroup of the Roma people or to the other half of the Roma population. A Romanian poll conducted in 2004 among 347 Roma found that 150 referred to themselves as \"Ursari\" (or 43.2%, and the largest single group).\n\nThe Romanian-speaking Roma bear or monkey handlers in Bulgaria, called \"mechkari\" (мечкари), \"maymunari\", or \"ursari\", are occasionally seen as a separate community or as a distinct part of the Boyash population, as are persons identified as Ursari in Italy. The \"Coşniţari\" (or \"koshnichari\") group, present on both sides of the Danube (in both Romania and Bulgaria), is believed to be a segment of the Ursari. Other such Eastern European groups, although linked by profession, speak different languages and dialects, and are not considered part of the Ursari; they include the \"Medvedara\" in Greece, \"Ričkara\" in Slovakia, and \"Roma Ayjides\" in the Istanbul area of Turkey.\n\nGroups of bear-handlers are known to have existed during the population's transit through the Byzantine Empire, as early as the 12th century, when they are mentioned in connection with the \"Athinganoi\" (Roma people) by Theodore Balsamon. In later decades, they were probably among the people collectively referred to as \"Egyptians\".\n\nThe Ursari formed part of the slave population in the Danubian Principalities (Moldavia and Wallachia) before the abolitions of the 1840s and 1850s. With the Boyash (including the gold-prospecting \"Zlătari\"), the Kalderash, and groups of Roma smiths, Ursari formed the category of \"lăieşi\", who, unlike \"vătraşi\" slaves, were allowed to carry on with a nomadic lifestyle (being required by their boyar masters to pay various benefits in exchange for the permission).\n\nBy the early decades of the 19th century, most of the state-owned Roma were \"lăieşi\", as opposed to private-owned ones. The \"lăieşi\" were required to contribute an annual sum to the treasuries of Wallachia and Moldavia; Édouard Antoine Thouvenel, a French diplomat who visited Wallachia during the period, indicated that, for Ursari families, this sum amounted to between twenty and thirty piasters, and it is documented that the Boyash and the Ursari paid equivalent fees.\n\nLike other nomadic Roma, Ursari are known to have traveled in large tribal groups during the 20th century, although other sources indicate that they preferred to organize themselves on a tight and selective family-based structure. Ursari people and the Boyash-proper traditionally accompanied the Kalderash on their travels to Rumelia, contributing to the birth of the \"Mechkara\" community.\n\nThouvenel described the group's \"miserable condition\", and, in reference to their handling of brown bears, wrote: \"[...] they reunite to give chase to [the bears], whom they domesticate after capturing them in their youth, or whom they render unable to harm them. Bears in the Carpathians are, after all, much smaller and of a less ferocious nature than those in the Nord; their leaders train them with relative ease and run around from village to village in order to collect a few \"para\" as a result of peasant curiosity\".\n\nAlso according to Thouvenel, Ursari were known for \"veterinary skills\", which, he argued, \"the superstition of people in the countryside attributes to the possession of a magic art\". In addition to bear handling, the community would occasionally trade in wild animals (specifically bear cubs), and was known for keeping and training monkeys. Female members of the community were known for their practice of fortune-telling.\n\nSpeaking during the late 1880s, the historian and politician Mihail Kogălniceanu, who was responsible for the 1855 abolition of slavery in Moldavia under Prince Grigore Alexandru Ghica, claimed that: \"aside from the [other] \"lăieşi\" Gypsies, who still live in part in Gypsy camps, and Ursari, who are presently working in the taming of wild beasts, but are nevertheless involved in working the land, almost all of the other classes of Gypsies have blended into the larger mass of the nation, and are only told apart by their swarthy and Asian-like faces and the vividness of their imagination\".\n\nFollowing the creation of a Romanian Principality, Ursari nonetheless remained a presence associated with busking and fairs, especially with those held in Bucharest and provincial cities such as Bacău. As early as the rule of \"Domnitor\" Alexandru Ioan Cuza, they formed a staple of such spectacles, alongside the music-playing \"Lăutari\", the \"Căluşari\", and freak shows. At around the same time, they included a section of \"zavragii\", smiths who worked as day laborers. Also during the late 19th century, the Ursari came to be attested in Imperial Russian-ruled Bessarabia, where the local population referred to them and to the \"lăieşi\" in general as \"şătraşi\" (\"people living on campsites\").\n\nSometime after 1850, groups of Ursari, Kalderash and Lovari, most likely coming from Austro-Hungarian regions and Bosnia, moved westwards, and were mentioned for the first time as present in the North Brabant and other areas in the Netherlands (where their descendants still live). A similar move originated in Serbia, around Kragujevac, with Boyash and Ursari moving into northern and central Italy. In the Netherlands, central authorities reacted vehemently to the presence of Roma, labeling Ursari and the others with the loaded term \"Gypsies\"; the reaction of local authorities was more calm, and allowed Ursari to blend into Dutch society, even though most members of the latter community intended to settle in other areas.\n\nIn time, a significant number of Ursari joined circuses, while many others began manufacturing and trading bone objects and leather (as, respectively, \"Pieptănari\" and \"Ciurari\"), or associating with the \"Lăutari\". The bears were taught to make dancing moves to a tambourine, or trained to walk upright and perform tricks such as leaning on canes and rolling over. The use of iron rods and nose rings in the taming process, as well as other such practices, rose attention from animal welfare advocates, and have been the subject of criticism from as early as the 1920s, when Germany forbade the Ursari's trade. It has been reported that bear training involved burning the paws of cubs to the rhythm of music.\n\nDuring the early stages of World War II, as part of the repressive measures ordered by the Iron Guard, the Minister of the Interior of the Romanian Legionary Government, Constantin Petrovicescu, passed an order preventing Ursari from performing with bears in cities, towns, or villages. The official explanation for the measure was that such patterns of movement were helping to spread typhus. Over the following years, under Ion Antonescu's regime, members of the Ursari community were among the Roma people deported to Transnistria, as part of Romania's share in the Holocaust (\"see also Romania during World War II and Porajmos\").\n\nInterdictions on performing with bears were legislated throughout the Eastern Bloc. In Communist Romania, large groups of Ursari performers were prevented from entering cities, and, under both Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej and Nicolae Ceauşescu, nomadic Roma were subject to settlement policies (many were reportedly resettled as early as their return from Transnistria).\n\nIn April–June 1991, following the Revolution of 1989, Ursari in several localities of Romania's Giurgiu County — Bolintin Deal, Ogrezeni and Bolintin Vale — were the target of ethnic violence. Ursari people were chased away, and many of their lodgings were burned to the ground. In Bolintin Deal, where the first such actions took place, this came in retaliation for the murder of a Romanian student, Cristian Melinte, by a young Ursar hitchhiker who was later sentenced to 20 years in prison.\n\nThe arsons were carried out by large groups of local inhabitants, who, according to American author Isabel Fonseca, acted methodically (they are alleged to have cut down the electrical wires leading to each Ursari house, so that the fire would be contained). In Ogrezeni, inter-communal violence was caused by the stabbing of a Romanian during a bar fight. In contrast, the violent acts in Bolintin Vale were unprovoked, and probably came as an effect of the Ogrezeni incident.\n\nCommentators have attributed these outbursts to the failure of settlement measures, with the perception that former nomads were among the privileged class during Communist times. It was reported that many Romanians in Bolintin Deal believed the Ursari were stealing property and even, in Fonseca's account, that they had been organizing photo ops for Ceauşescu.\n\nAt the same time, criminal acts among the Ursari have been independently reported: among the Roma present in Bolintin Deal, the largely unemployed Ursari were not fully integrated; it was indicated that houses of non-Ursari Roma were not targeted during the 1991 events, and that, of the 27 criminal files instrumented in Bolintin between 1989 and 1991, 18 implicated Ursari people (with similar ratios in Ogrezeni). It was also noted that the Bolintin Deal and Bolintin Vale mobs comprised not only Romanians, but also Roma belonging to traditionally settled communities.\n\nRomanian Police was criticized for its failure to intervene and prevent violence, despite being made aware of the potential for conflict — in Bolintin Deal, 22 out of 26 Ursari houses were burned before the Jandarmeria and fire service dispersed the mob. However, in Ogrezeni and Bolintin Vale, Police forces were themselves faced with violence from the mob, after allegations that they had vested interest in supporting the Roma community at large; in Ogrezeni, 13 or 14 out of 15 Ursari houses were set on fire, and 11 were devastated in Bolintin Vale.\n\nAll members of the Ursari community in Bolintin Deal settled in either Bucharest or Giurgiu, many of them after selling their plots of land; a group attempted to return in May 1991, but was chased away by the locals. Reportedly, authorities informed the Ursari that they had better to run away. By 2005, several Ursari who had taken residence in Bucharest Sector 4 requested to be issued deeds for formerly state-owned land in Bolintin Deal, which was then being allocated to residents; the local authorities denied their request, arguing that ownership of the land in question was still subject to dispute, and indicating that the Ursari could purchase other plots if they chose to do so.\n\nUrsari were a seasonal presence on the Black Sea Coast under the Bulgarian Communist regime. Though much rarer, bear leading is still practiced by nomadic groups of Ursari in various areas of Eastern Europe.\n\nThe Ursari are among the groups of Roma to practice endogamy, alongside the Kalderash, the Lovari and the Gabori; many \"Mechkara\" believe refer to themselves as \"Vlachs\" or \"Romanians\", and tend to consider themselves distinct from other Roma. For the Ursari community at large, the rules upheld specifically prevent sexual contact with the \"gadjo\" and favor arranged marriages, but seem to have allowed for intermarriage inside the Boyash community at large. They are also among the few Roma groups to allow the marriage of young teenagers, although this custom is falling out of use.\n\nEastern Orthodox by tradition (belonging to either the Romanian Orthodox or Bulgarian Orthodox churches), many Ursari are adhering to Protestant movements such as Pentecostalism. The Ursari in Serbia and Italy are members of the Serbian Orthodox Church. Days of the calendar traditionally upheld as holidays by the Ursari include February 1, the first day of fair seasons, and the Orthodox Calendar November 30 feast of Saint Andrew (whom the Ursari people regard as a patron saint). In the early first decade of the 21st century, the New Testament was being translated into the Ursari form of the Balkan Romani language.\n\nAs an aspect of their trade, the Ursari have established and encouraged various folk beliefs and customs involving the bear; these include displaying bears in the courtyards of village houses as a means to protect livestock from attack by smaller wild animals, and \"călcătura ursului\" (\"the bear step\") or \"călcătura lui Moş Martin\" (\"Old Boy Martin's step\", based on a common nickname for the animal), which involves allowing bears to tread on a person's back (in the belief that it can ensure the fertility of young people or chase away evil spirits).\n\nThe latter custom was very popular among Romanians, who viewed it as a folk remedy for back pain; welcoming Ursari into one's household to perform the task formed part of a string of events leading to the celebration of Easter, or part of customs ushering in Christmas and the New Year's Eve.\n\nAmong the members of the Ursari community who manufactured objects of bone, it became widespread to treat the material with bear fat, a luxury good which, they believed, helped make the products in question more durable. The fat was also being sold to Romanians as medicine to combat rheumatism and skeletal disorders, together with bear hairs that were a popular amulet.\n\nThe practices associated with bear training have again been the focus of animal welfare groups ever since the 1990s, and were subject to an adverse campaign in \"The International Herald Tribune\". While noting the use of crude methods of training, Isabel Fonseca, who visited the Ursari in places such as Bolintin Deal and Stara Zagora Province, argued that, as the main bread-winners for Ursari families, bears were also the recipients of care, attention, and proper feeding.\n\nSeveral artists have portrayed Romani bear trainers and their animals in their work. Among them are the Romanian painter and graphic artist Theodor Aman and the American sculptor Paul Wayland Bartlett (whose 1888 \"Bohemian Bear Tamer\" bronze is on display at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City).\n\nWhile, ever since the 1850s, many Ursari musicians have contributed to \"Lăutari\" culture to the point where they have grown separated from their original environment, traditional Ursari music survived as a separate genre; fused with electronic music, was popularized in early 21st century Romania by the Shukar Collective project.\n\nA chant used by Ursari trainers has passed into Romanian folklore as a nursery rhyme. It includes the lyrics:\nA longer version of it was still being sung by the Ursari in Bacău County by 2007:\nBelarusian rock-band Hair Peace Salon dedicated its song “Gypsy” from the album Split Before, Together Now to all \"“gypsies and bears.”\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2263149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263149", "title": "Roy Brown (blues musician)", "text": "Roy Brown (blues musician)\n\nRoy James Brown (September 10, 1920 or 1925May 25, 1981) was an American R&B singer, songwriter and musician, who had a significant influence on the early development of rock and roll and the direction of R&B. His original song and hit recording \"Good Rockin' Tonight\" has been covered by many artists including Wynonie Harris, Elvis Presley, Bruce Springsteen, Joe Ely, Ricky Nelson, Jerry Lee Lewis, Pat Boone, James Brown, the Doors, and the rock group Montrose. Brown was one of the first popular R&B singers to perform songs with a gospel-steeped delivery, which was then considered taboo by many churches. In addition, his melismatic, pleading vocal style influenced notable artists such as B.B. King, Bobby Bland, Elvis Presley, Jackie Wilson, James Brown and Little Richard.\n\nBrown was born in Kinder, Louisiana. Some sources report his birth date as September 10, 1925, but the researchers Bob Eagle and Eric LeBlanc gave the date as September 10, 1920, on the basis of information in the 1930 census and Social Security records, and stated that 1925 is incorrect. Media reports state that he was either 55 or 56 at the time of his death.\n\nLike many R&B singers, Brown started singing gospel music in church. His mother was an accomplished singer and church organist. He moved to Los Angeles in the 1940s and for a short time was a professional boxer in the welterweight division. In 1945 he won a singing contest at the Million Dollar Theater, covering \"There's No You\", originally recorded by Bing Crosby. In 1946, Brown moved to Galveston, Texas, where he sang in Joe Coleman's group, performing mostly songs from the Hit Parade, in a nightclub called the Club Granada. His repertoire included \"Good Rockin' Tonight\".\n\nAfter being rejected by the armed forces because of flat feet, Brown secured his first major job in a club in Shreveport, Louisiana, singing mostly pop ballads, such as \"Stardust\" and \"Blue Hawaii\". The owner of Bill Riley's Palace Park hired him, as Brown told an interviewer for \"Blues Unlimited\", because of his appeal as \"a Negro singer who sounds white.\" It was at the Palace Park that Brown started developing a blues repertoire, learning contemporary R&B tunes such as \"Jelly Jelly\" (recorded by Billy Eckstine). He returned to New Orleans in 1947, where he performed at the Dew Drop Inn.\n\nBrown was a fan of blues singer Wynonie Harris. When Harris appeared in town, Brown tried but failed to interest him in listening to \"Good Rockin' Tonight\". Brown then approached another blues singer, Cecil Gant, who was performing at another club in town. Brown introduced his song, and Gant had him sing it over the telephone to the president of De Luxe Records, Jules Braun, reportedly at 4:00 in the morning. Brown was signed to a recording contract immediately. He recorded the song in a jump blues style with a swing beat. It was released in 1948 and reached number 13 on the \"Billboard\" R&B chart. Ironically, Harris recorded a cover version of the song, and his version rose to the top of the \"Billboard\" R&B chart later in 1948. Presley also covered the song for Sun Records in 1954; it was re-released by RCA Victor when his recording contract was sold to that label in 1956.\n\nBrown continued to make his mark on the R&B charts, having 14 hits for De Luxe from mid-1948 to late 1951, including \"Hard Luck Blues\" (1950, his biggest seller), \"Love Don't Love Nobody\", \"Rockin' at Midnight\", \"Boogie at Midnight\", \"Miss Fanny Brown\", and \"Cadillac Baby\", making him, along with Harris, one of the top R&B performers in those three years.\n\nAfter his popularity peaked, Brown began to experience a lull in his career. Doo-wop and R&B groups were quickly gaining popularity as the standard sound of R&B in the early to mid-1950s. His declining fortune coincided with the resolution of a lawsuit against King Records for unpaid royalties in 1952, in which Brown prevailed, one of the few African-American musicians to do so in the 1950s. This coincidence has led some, such as the writer Nick Tosches (in his book \"Unsung Heroes of Rock 'n' Roll\", which contains a chapter on Brown) to believe that Brown may have been blacklisted. Brown's other misfortunes included trouble with the Internal Revenue Service. When confronted by the government for unpaid taxes he owed, he approached Elvis Presley for help. Presley wrote him a check on a brown paper bag, but it was not enough to keep Brown out of prison for tax evasion.\n\nIn 1951, Brown performed at the seventh famed Cavalcade of Jazz concert held at Wrigley Field in Los Angeles which was produced by Leon Hefflin, Sr.on July 8. Also featured were Lionel Hampton and his Revue, Percy Mayfield, Jimmy Witherspoon, Joe Liggins' Honeydrippers and Billy Eckstine. The following year, June 1, 1952, he performed for the eighth Cavalcade of Jazz concert with His Mighty Men. Also featured that day were Anna Mae Winburn and Her Sweethearts, Jerry Wallace, Toni Harper, Louis Jordan, Jimmy Witherspoon and Josephine Baker. And Brown came back in 1953 to play at the 9th Cavalcade of Jazz on June 7. Also featured that day were, Don Tosti and His Mexican Jazzmen, Earl Bostic, Nat \"King\" Cole, Shorty Roger's Orchestra, and Louis Armstrong and his All Stars with Velma Middleton.\n\nBrown had a brief comeback on Imperial Records in 1957. Working with Dave Bartholomew, he returned to the charts with the original version of \"Let the Four Winds Blow\", co-written with Fats Domino, who would later have a hit with it.\n\nBrown returned to King Records, but his popularity had diminished by 1959. He found sporadic work, performing wherever he was wanted, and he made some recordings through the 1960s. To supplement his income, he sold the rights to \"Good Rockin' Tonight\". \"I was selling door to door,\" he reminisced, referring to his stint as an encyclopedia salesman.\n\nIn 1970, Brown closed \"The Johnny Otis Show\" at the Monterey Jazz Festival. As a result of the positive reception by the audience, he recorded \"Love for Sale\", which became a hit for Mercury Records.\n\nIn the late 1970s, a compilation album of his old recordings brought about a minor revival of interest in his music. In 1978 he made a successful tour in Scandinavia following the releases of \"Laughing but Crying\" and \"Good Rockin' Tonight\". Shortly before his death he performed at the Whisky a Go-Go in West Hollywood, California, and he was a headliner at the New Orleans Jazz and Heritage Festival in 1981.\n\nBrown died of a heart attack on May 25, 1981, at Pacoima Lutheran Memorial Hospital, near his home in the San Fernando Valley. The Reverend Johnny Otis conducted the funeral service.\n\nBrown was posthumously inducted into the Blues Hall of Fame in 1981.\n\nTwo of his songs, \"Butcher Pete, Pt. 1\" and \"Mighty Mighty Man\" are featured in the 2008 video game, \"Fallout 3\". \"Butcher Pete, Pt. 1,\" \"Butcher Pete, Pt. 2\", \"Good Rockin' Tonight,\" and \"Mighty Mighty Man\" are featured in the 2015 sequel, \"Fallout 4\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263152", "title": "Microsoft Data Access Components", "text": "Microsoft Data Access Components\n\nMicrosoft Data Access Components (MDAC; also known as Windows DAC) is a framework of interrelated Microsoft technologies that allows programmers a uniform and comprehensive way of developing applications that can access almost any data store. Its components include: ActiveX Data Objects (ADO), OLE DB, and Open Database Connectivity (ODBC). There have been several deprecated components as well, such as the Microsoft Jet Database Engine, MSDASQL (the OLE DB provider for ODBC), and Remote Data Services (RDS). Some components have also become obsolete, such as the former Data Access Objects API and Remote Data Objects.\n\nThe first version of MDAC was released in August 1996. At that time Microsoft stated MDAC was more a concept than a stand-alone program and had no widespread distribution method. Later Microsoft released upgrades to MDAC as web-based redistributable packages. Eventually, later versions were integrated with Microsoft Windows and Internet Explorer, and in MDAC 2.8 SP1 they ceased offering MDAC as a redistributable package.\n\nThroughout its history, MDAC has been the subject of several security flaws, which led to attacks such as an escalated privileges attack, although the vulnerabilities were generally fixed in later versions and fairly promptly. The current version is 2.8 service pack 1, but the product has had many different versions and many of its components have been deprecated and replaced by newer Microsoft technologies. MDAC is now known as Windows DAC in Windows Vista.\n\nThe latest version of MDAC (2.8) consists of several interacting components, all of which are Windows specific except for ODBC (which is available on several platforms). MDAC architecture may be viewed as three layers: a programming interface layer, consisting of ADO and ADO.NET, a database access layer developed by database vendors such as Oracle and Microsoft (OLE DB, .NET managed providers and ODBC drivers), and the database itself. These component layers are all made available to applications through the MDAC API. The Microsoft SQL Server Network Library, a proprietary access method specific to Microsoft SQL Server, is also included in the MDAC. Developers of Windows applications are encouraged to use ADO or ADO.NET for data access, the benefit being that users of the application program are not constrained in their choice of database architecture except that it should be supported by MDAC. Naturally, developers still have the choice of writing applications which directly access OLE DB and ODBC.\n\nThe Microsoft SQL Server Network Library (also known as Net-Lib) is used by the Microsoft SQL Server to read and write data using many different network protocols. Though Net-Lib is specific to the SQL Server, Microsoft includes it with MDAC. The SQL Server uses the Open Data Services (ODS) library to communicate with Net-Lib, which interfaces directly with the Windows NT operating system line's Win32 subsystem. The SQL Server Network Library is controlled through the use of a Client Network Utility, which is bundled with the SQL Server.\n\nEach Net-Lib supported network protocol has a separate driver (not to be confused with a device driver), and has support for a session layer in its protocol stack. There are two general types of Net-Lib: the primary and the secondary. The primary Net-Lib consists of a \"Super Socket\" Net-Lib and the \"Shared Memory\" Net-Lib, while there are numerous secondary Net-Libs, including TCP/IP and named pipes network libraries (named pipes are a method of communicating with other processes via a system-persistent pipeline that is given an identity). The Microsoft OLE DB Provider for SQL Server (SQLOLEDB) communicates via primary Net-Libs.\n\nThe Super Socket Net-Lib deals with inter-computer communications and coordinates the secondary Net-Libs – though the TCP/IP secondary Net-Lib is an exception in that it calls on the Windows Sockets 2 API directly. The Banyan VINES, AppleTalk, ServerNet, IPX/SPX, Giganet, and RPC Net-Libs were dropped from MDAC 2.5 onwards. The Network Library router had the job of managing all these protocols, however now only the named pipes secondary Net-Lib is managed by the router. The Super Socket Net-Lib also handles data encryption via the use of the Windows SSL API.\n\nThe Shared Memory Net-Lib, on the other hand, manages connections between multiple instances of SQL Server that exist on one computer. It uses a shared memory area to communicate between the processes. This is inherently secure; there is no need for data encryption between instances of SQL Server that exist on one computer as the operating system does not allow any other process access to the instances' area of shared memory.\n\nNet-Lib is also able to support the impersonation of a logged in user's security context for protocols that support authenticated connections (called \"trusted connections\"). This allows Net-Lib to provide an integrated logon authentication mechanism via the use of Windows Authentication. Windows Authentication is not supported on Windows 98 or Windows Me.\n\nOLE DB (also called OLEDB or OLE-DB) allows MDAC applications access to different types of ([data]) stores in a uniform manner. Microsoft has used this technology to separate the application from data can store in the website the data store that it needs to access. This was done because different applications need access to different types and sources of data, and do not necessarily need to know how to access technology-specific functionality. The technology is conceptually divided into \"consumers\" and \"providers\". The consumers are the applications that need access to the data, and the provider is the software component that exposes an OLE DB interface through the use of the Component Object Model (or COM).\n\nOLE DB is the database access interface technology used by MDAC. OLE DB providers can be created to access such simple data stores as a text file or spreadsheet, through to such complex databases as Oracle and SQL Server. However, because different data store technology can have different capabilities, OLE DB providers may not implement every possible interface available. The capabilities that are available are implemented through the use of COM objects an OLE DB provider will map the data store technology's functionality to a particular COM interface. Microsoft calls the availability of an interface to be \"provider-specific\" as it may not be applicable depending on the database technology involved. Additionally, however, providers may also augment the capabilities of a data store; these capabilities are known as \"services\" in Microsoft parlance.\n\nThe \"Microsoft OLE DB Provider for SQL Server\" (SQLOLEDB) is the OLE DB provider that Microsoft provides for the Microsoft SQL Server from version 6.5 upwards.\n\nUniversal data link files (or '.udl files') provide a common user interface for specifying connection attributes. A user can use a Data Link Properties dialog box to save connection information in a .udl file as an alternative to directly specifying them by hand in a connection string. Consequently, these files provide a convenient level of indirection. Additionally, the dialog box specifies a number of alternate OLE DB data providers for a variety of target applications.\n\nOpen Database Connectivity (ODBC) is a native interface that is accessed through a programming language (usually C) that can make calls into a native library. In MDAC this interface is defined as a DLL. A separate module or driver is needed for each database that must be accessed. The functions in the ODBC API are implemented by these DBMS-specific drivers. The driver that Microsoft provides in MDAC is called the SQL Server ODBC Driver (SQLODBC), and (as the name implies) is designed for Microsoft's SQL Server. It supports SQL Server v6.5 and upwards. ODBC allows programs to use SQL requests that will access databases without having to know the proprietary interfaces to the databases. It handles the SQL request and converts it into a request that the individual database system understands. According to Microsoft, \"After SQL Server 2012, the ODBC driver will be updated for the most recent server features, including Microsoft Windows Azure SQL Database, and released as the Microsoft ODBC Driver for SQL Server.\"\n\nActiveX Data Objects (ADO) is a high-level programming interface to OLE DB. It uses a hierarchical object model to allow applications to programmatically create, retrieve, update and delete data from sources supported by OLE DB. ADO consists of a series of hierarchical COM-based objects and collections, an object that acts as a container of many other objects. A programmer can directly access ADO objects to manipulate data, or can send an SQL query to the database via several ADO mechanisms. ADO is made up of nine objects and four collections.\n\nThe collections are:\n\nThe objects are:\n\nADO.NET is the latest version of ADO (after ADO 2.8, now often referred to as ADO Classic) and is part of the MDAC 2.8 stack alongside classic ADO. It is built around Microsoft .NET. Though sometimes seen as an evolutionary step up from ADO, some fundamental structural changes were made by Microsoft. ADO.NET runs through a .NET Managed Provider, a modified version of an OLE DB provider specifically designed for .NET. The object structure is no longer built around a Recordset object. Instead a Dataset object is used to contain data gathered from multiple sources. This is transparent to the programmer. Unlike the old ADO Recordset, the Dataset's design promotes the use of disconnected data. Conceptually, a Dataset object can be seen as a small in-memory relational database in its own right that allows for manipulation of data in any direction. In order to propagate changes back into the database, a DataAdapter object is used that transfers data from between the data source and the DataSet object. Cursors were also deprecated in ADO.NET, being replaced with a DataReader object, which is used to efficiently process a large list of results one record at a time without storing them.\n\nMDAC is a continually evolving component framework. As such, there have been several components that were previously part of it but have since been deprecated or removed entirely from the framework.\n\nJet stands for \"Joint Engine Technology\" and was a database engine used for Microsoft Access, Microsoft Exchange Server and Visual Basic. Jet was part of a Relational Database Management System (RDBMS) and offered a single interface that other software could use to access Microsoft databases. Jet also provided support for security, referential integrity, transaction processing, indexing, record and page locking, and data replication. In later versions of Jet, the engine was extended to run SQL queries, store character data in Unicode format, create views, and allowed bi-directional replication with the Microsoft SQL Server. It has since been superseded by MSDE.\n\nThere were three modules to Jet. One was the Native Jet ISAM Driver, a Jet dynamic link library (DLL) that could directly manipulate Microsoft Access database files (MDB), which was a modified form of an Indexed Sequential Access Method (ISAM) database. Another one of the modules were the ISAM Drivers, DLLs that allowed access to ISAM databases, among them being Xbase, Paradox, Btrieve and FoxPro files. The final module was the Data Access Objects (DAO) DLL, DAO allowed programmers access to the Jet engine. It was basically an object-oriented data language used by Access Basic and Visual Basic application developers to access Jet.\n\nSimilarly, the \"Microsoft Jet OLE DB Provider and Replication Objects\" (JRO) which allowed replication between Jet data sources was removed from MDAC 2.6\n\nThe Microsoft OLE DB Provider for ODBC, or codice_19, was an OLE DB provider for allowing ActiveX Data Objects access to databases via any ODBC driver. Microsoft supplied several OLE-DB providers (for the Indexing Service, Active Directory, Jet, SQL Server, Oracle (codice_20)\nand Internet Publishing), however unless otherwise directed, ADO defaulted to using MSDASQL as the default provider. After MDAC 2.5 both the Oracle ODBC driver and MSDASQL supported Oracle 7 and partially supported Oracle 8i. Features that were not supported were:\n\n\nMicrosoft initially deprecated the MSDASQL component for their 64-bit operating systems\nand the Microsoft Oracle ODBC driver was later superseded by a .NET Managed Oracle Provider, which supported Oracle 9i. However, Windows Server 2008 and Windows Vista SP1 ship with a 64-bit version of MSDASQL.\n\nRemote Data Services (RDS) allowed the retrieval of a set of data from the server, which the client then altered in some way and then sent back to the server for further processing. With the popular adoption of Transact-SQL, which extends SQL with such programming constructs as loops and conditional statements, this became less necessary and it was eventually deprecated in MDAC 2.7. Microsoft produced SOAP Toolkit 2.0, which allows clients to do this via an open XML-based standard.\n\nSQLXML was designed for SQL Server 2000, but was deprecated with MDAC 2.6. It allowed Microsoft's relational database to be viewed by XPath and allowed data to viewable as an XML file. It has not actually been deprecated but has been removed from later versions of MDAC, though Microsoft does provide it as a downloadable component and will support it on their 64-bit operating systems.\n\nSeveral components have been completely removed from MDAC by Microsoft and are no longer supported. They are:\n\n\nMicrosoft has released several versions of MDAC over time. The distribution method has varied and the feature-set is different for each version.\n\nMDAC 1.0 was first released in August 1996. According to Microsoft, \"MDAC 1.0 existed more as concept than a coordinated, stand-alone setup program.\" The MDAC 1.0 stack consisted of ODBC 3.0, OLE DB 1.1, ADO 1.0, and the Advanced Data Connector (ADC) 1.0 – which according to Microsoft was the precursor to the Remote Data Service of MDAC 1.5. It also included ODBC drivers for Access/Jet, SQL Server and Oracle databases. MDAC 1.0 was released via several mechanisms: the Advanced Data Connector shipped with Internet Information Server (IIS) 3.0 and as a downloadable cab file; OLE DB 1.1 and ADO 1.0 shipped with the OLE DB 1.1 SDK, which came with Visual Studio 97 and was also downloadable. MDAC 1.0 came with Active Server Pages, that itself came in IIS 3.0, and also came with Visual InterDev 1.0.\n\nMDAC 1.5 was released between September 1997 and March 1998, and involved a more centralised distribution mechanism than MDAC 1.0. It was released with Microsoft Internet Explorer 4.0, the Internet Client SDK 4.0 and through a CD-ROM given out at the 1997 Professional Developers Conference (PDC). There were five versions of MDAC 1.5:\n\n\nThe different versions of MDAC 1.5 consisted of:\n\n\nThis version of MDAC had a security flaw that made it vulnerable to an escalated privileges attack. The vulnerability caused systems that had both IIS and MDAC installed to give an unauthorized web user the ability to execute shell commands on the IIS system as a privileged user. This allowed the attacker to use MDAC to tunnel SQL and other ODBC data requests through the public connection to a private back-end network when on a multi-homed Internet-connected IIS system. It also allowed the user to gain unauthorized access to secured, non-published files on the IIS system\n\nMDAC 1.5 was the last data access component release supported under Windows NT 3.51 SP5.\n\nMDAC 2.0 was distributed with the Data Access 2.0 SDK and included the contents of MDAC 1.5, the ODBC 3.5 SDK and the OLE DB 1.5 SDK, and the OLE DB for OLAP Specification. It also had included many updates to the core product, including a security feature added to the RDS which prevented it from being used maliciously an IIS server. This version came included in Windows NT 4.0 SP4, and also with Visual Studio 6.0, which came with the full Data Access SDK.\n\nMDAC 2.1 was distributed with SQL Server 7.0 and SQL Server 6.5 SP5. MDAC 2.1 SP1 was distributed with Internet Explorer 5 and MDAC 2.1 SP1a (GA) was distributed with Microsoft Office 2000, BackOffice 4.5 and Visual Studio 98 SP3. However, none of these versions of MDAC were released to the general public via the world wide web. MDAC 2.1 SP2 was distributed from Microsoft's website. The components that were included with 2.1 were:\n\nThis version had security vulnerabilities whereby an unchecked buffer could allow an elevated privileges attack. This was found some time later and it affected MDAC 2.1, 2.5 and 2.6 and was addressed in a later patch\n\nMDAC 2.5 was released on February 17, 2000 and distributed with Windows 2000, and the MDAC service packs were released in parallel with the Windows 2000 service packs. They were also distributed through Microsoft's website. Three service packs were released. The components included with 2.5 were:\n\nSeveral issues were found in this version of MDAC. When using OLE DB Session Pooling, Microsoft COM+ would try to continuously load and unload OLE DB, and a conflict could arise that caused the OLE DB Session Pooling to run at 100% CPU usage. This was later fixed. Microsoft published a full list of bugs fixed in MDAC 2.5 Service Pack 2 and MDAC 2.5 Service Pack 3. A security vulnerability also existed (later fixed) whereby an unchecked buffer was found in the SQL Server Driver. This flaw was introduced in MDAC 2.5 SP2.\n\nMDAC 2.6 was released in September 2000 and was distributed through the web and with Microsoft SQL Server 2000 MDAC 2.6 RTM, SP1 (released June 20, 2001), and SP2 (released June 11, 2002) were distributed in parallel with the Microsoft SQL Server 2000 service packs, and could also be downloaded from the Microsoft website.\n\nBeginning with this version of MDAC, Microsoft Jet, Microsoft Jet OLE DB Provider, and the ODBC Desktop Database Drivers were not included. Instead, these could be installed manually. Microsoft also released an alert warning that MDAC 2.6 should not be installed on an SQL Server 7.0 Cluster, because \"if you install MDAC 2.6 or later on any node in the cluster, directly or through the installation of another program, it may cause a catastrophic failure of the SQL Server Agent or other SQL Server services.\" This issue affected Veritas Software's Backup Exec 9.0 for Windows Servers, because it installs Microsoft SQL Server 2000 Desktop Engine (MSDE 2000) as its database. Revision 4367 installed MDAC version 2.6 SP2 while revision 4454 installed MDAC version 2.7 SP1, which did not have the problem\n\nMDAC 2.7 was released in October 2001 through Microsoft's website. A refresh release was issued in April 2002 through the release of Windows XP and through Microsoft's website. Version 2.7 was available in U.S. English, Chinese (Traditional and Simplified), German, Japanese, Korean, Brazilian Portuguese, Czech, Danish, Greek, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish, Finnish, French, Hungarian, Italian, Dutch, Norwegian, Polish, Portuguese, Russian, Swedish, and Turkish. Hebrew and Arabic were only available through Windows XP.\n\nThe main feature change was support for Microsoft's 64-bit operating system, however support for Banyan VINES was also dropped from this version of MDAC. There were several known issues: MDAC 2.7 continued causing connectivity problems on clustered servers running Microsoft SQL Server 6.5 or SQL Server 7.0, with no workaround provided by Microsoft. When creating or configuring ODBC data source names (DSNs) using the Microsoft SQL Server ODBC driver the network library protocol might unexpectedly switch to TCP/IP, even if the DSN was configured to use named pipes. This issue was found by \"InfoWorld\" reporter Randall C. Kennedy, who identified that the change was actually made in MDAC 2.6 but was never documented. It was discovered when testing client/server database workloads on a Windows XP computer; \"InfoWorld\" claims that although overall server CPU utilization rose by only 8 percent using TCP/IP, context switches per second dropped by more than 150 percent (which is of course impossible because you would then have a negative context switch rate - the drop is either 33% or 60% depending on which planet the author was on at the time of writing) for a 10-user workload. They were unimpressed that a fundamental functional change to the default behaviour of Net-Lib occurred without more than a passing mention in an unrelated document. Windows XP users also sometimes experienced problems connecting to SQL Server because SQL Server attempts to use certificates it finds on the local computer, however if there is more than one certificate available it did not know which one to use. When attempting to use Microsoft Analysis Services 2000 RTM, an error would sometimes appear when trying to browse cubes. Microsoft also discovered a problem in Windows 95, Windows 98, and Windows Me's setup program which prevented the MDAC installation program from rolling back when it encountered an installation error.\n\nSeveral security issues were resolved by Microsoft for MDAC 2.7. David Litchfield of Next Generation Security Software Ltd reported a security vulnerability that results because one of the ODBC functions in MDAC that is used to connect to data sources contained an unchecked buffer. Another vulnerability that was fixed was one whereby an attacker could respond to an SQL Server discovery message broadcast by clients with a specially crafted packet that could cause a buffer overflow. Another flaw was found whereby code could be executed remotely when the attacker responded to the broadcast with another specially crafted packet.\n\nMDAC 2.8 was released in August 2003 and distributed with Microsoft Windows Server 2003, as well as on Microsoft's Data Access Technologies website. It did not introduce any new features to the product but fixed a number of bugs and security issues – a reg file (automates changes to the registry) was removed that made the server run in an \"unsafe\" mode whereby the RDS could be exploited to gain unauthorized access to the system and a new restriction was imposed on the length of the Shape query string. There were also several ODBC Administrator changes.\n\nOn May 23, 2005 Brad Rhodes (Lead Program Manager of Microsoft Data Access Technologies) announced that MDAC 2.8 SP1 was the last stand-alone redistributable of MDAC that Microsoft will ship. MDAC is now an official component of the Microsoft's operating system, though they will be providing ongoing bug and security fixes to previously released versions of the web-distributable version. However, Microsoft have created a new component called the SQL Native Client (SQLNCLI), which is a stand-alone data access API that has combined the OLE DB and ODBC libraries into one DLL. It was formed to be independent of MDAC, which is now reliant on the state the operating system is in – a developer now links to this library and avoids situations where an update of the operating system which updates MDAC breaks applications built to a different version of MDAC.\n\nWindows 7 SP1 has broken forward compatibility of MDAC 2.8. Software compiled on Windows 7 SP1 that relies on MDAC ADO will not work on Windows versions prior to Windows 7 SP1 (including Windows 7 RTM, Vista, XP). Microsoft has provided solutions to work around this issue for some applications but VBA applications remain affected. The fix for this issue has been release in February 2012.\n\nWindows Vista will no longer use MDAC, but instead use Windows DAC, which consists of updated versions of ADO, OLE DB, and ODBC components. According to Microsoft, \"Windows DAC includes some changes to work with Windows Vista, but is almost entirely functionally equivalent to MDAC 2.8.\"\n\nThere are two ways of checking the version of MDAC that is installed on a computer. For Windows 2000, Windows XP and Windows Server 2003, one way to check is via Microsoft's Component Checker program, which compares the value of each installed MDAC DLL to the MDAC file manifest. The second way is to check the key codice_21 in the Windows registry. Microsoft notes that this information may be incorrect for versions of MDAC prior to 2.1 when compared with the versions of the MDAC files installed to the system\n\n"}
{"id": "2263155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263155", "title": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (B)", "text": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (B)\n"}
{"id": "2263158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263158", "title": "Justin Gage", "text": "Justin Gage\n\nJustin Charles Gage (born January 24, 1981) is a former American football wide receiver. He was originally drafted by the Chicago Bears in the fifth round of the 2003 NFL Draft. He played college football at the University of Missouri.\n\nGage attended the University of Missouri where he played both football and basketball. He was on the Tigers basketball team that reached the Elite Eight in the 2002 NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament. In football, he started out as a quarterback, but moved to wide receiver in the spring of 2000. Coach Larry Smith converted him to a wide receiver and was fired that year.\n\nGage spent four years with the Chicago Bears, but signed with the Titans as a free agent following the 2006 season. In 2007 Gage tied for the Tennessee Titans lead with 55 receptions and led the team with 750 receiving yards.\n\nGage was released by the Titans on September 3, 2011.\n\nGage holds the following records for football at the University of Missouri:\n\n"}
{"id": "2263161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263161", "title": "Money clip", "text": "Money clip\n\nA money clip is a device typically used to store cash and credit cards in a very compact fashion for those who do not wish to carry a wallet.\n\nA metal money clip is generally a solid piece of metal folded into half, such that the banknotes and credit cards are securely wedged in between the two pieces of metal. Metal money clips are typically made out of brass, stainless steel, silver, gold, titanium, or platinum. They are typically sold as luxury items. The chief disadvantage of a metal money clip is that, due to the inflexibility of the metal, it cannot typically hold large amounts of cash. Depending on the design, it may also be difficult to push the banknotes into the clip.\n\nNot new, but rare on the market. Titanium money clips exist mostly in silver and black variations. Titanium is not only lighter than common stainless steel money clips, it is also hypoallergenic.\n\ncarbon fiber money clips are starting to see market acceptance. Using advanced moulding techniques, the high strength and durability of carbon fiber make for ideal qualities. The carbon fiber allows the clamping surfaces to open beyond parallel, without the deformation of normal metal money clips, however, it can be too loose when holding less, so there is a tradeoff. Being non-metallic, they still conduct electrical current (due to the carbon fibers), so they can be picked up by metal detectors (you can test this out with a handheld security metal detector). The softer resin (plastic that bonds the carbon fibers together) means that it get scratched more easily than the tougher surface of metal money clip.\n\nThe magnetic money clip is generally made of two strong flat rectangular or round magnets encased in leather, with a small piece of leather separating the two pieces and allowing them to swivel into a closed and open position. There are also clips made of three magnets and two pieces of leather. A magnetic money clip typically has a greater carrying capacity than a metal money clip and the strongest clips are able to hold up to 15 banknotes folded in half. When holding a larger volume of banknotes a magnetic money clip has less clamping force, since the magnets are farther apart compared to when holding just a few banknotes. A metal or carbon fiber clip has inverse properties and the clamping tension gets higher as the clip is stretched open further. Magnetic money clips are not recommended for holding credit cards as the magnets may distort or erase the magnetic strip.\n\nA money clip wallet is a clip designed specifically to hold both credit cards and cash. The conventional money clip wallets are a credit card holder with either a swivel magnetic clip attached to the back side or a solid clip that is bent 6-fold; bent that way the conventional clip will feature three compartments instead of one. Money clip wallets are sometimes known as hybrid money clips.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263164", "title": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (C)", "text": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (C)\n"}
{"id": "2263165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263165", "title": "Battle of the Bagradas River (c. 240 BC)", "text": "Battle of the Bagradas River (c. 240 BC)\n\nThe Battle of the Bagradas River or the Macar (BC) was fought between Carthaginian forces and part of the combined forces of Carthage's former mercenary armies during the Mercenary War which it used to conduct the First Punic War and those of rebelling Libyan cities. After the forces of Hanno the Great were defeated at Utica, and failed to engage the mercenaries afterwards despite favorable conditions, Carthage raised a new army under Hamilcar Barca in Carthage. Hamilcar managed to leave Carthage despite the rebel blockade of the city and cross the Bagradas River (the ancient name of the Medjerda). Rebel armies from besieging Utica and the camp guarded the bridge on the Bagradas River. Hamilcar Barca, by brilliant maneuvering, defeated the combined rebel army. This was the first major Carthaginian victory of the war. A description of the battle forms one of the grandiose set-piece scenes of Gustave Flaubert's novel, Salammbo.\n\nThe First Punic War ended with the Roman victory in the Battle of the Aegates Islands in March 241 BC and Carthage authorizing Hamilcar Barca to start peace negotiations with Rome. The eventual settlement between Rome and Carthage included evacuation of Sicily by Carthage and payment of 3,200 silver talents to Rome as war reparations: 1,000 (21 tons of silver) immediately and 2,200 (56 ton of silver) in ten yearly installments. After paying Rome the indemnity which was part of the treaty, it could not easily pay the army of some 20,000 mercenaries it had employed to fight against Rome.\n\nDelays in dealing with the mercenaries eventually led to the gathering of the entire army and their families in Sicca Veneria (modern El Kef), where they demanded payment from the Carthaginian negotiator Hanno the Great. The exact amount owned the mercenaries can only be guessed, but given the back pay, ration money and any other rewards promised, it probably was a substantial amount, which the mercenaries inflated after they reached Sicca. When Hanno refused their demands, as Carthage actually hoped to reduce the payment amount, and mercenaries were unsympathetic about the financial difficulties of Carthage, the negotiations broke down and the mercenaries seized Tunis. Carthage then sent provisions to Tunis and agreed to all the demands of the mercenaries, and sent Gisco to pay off the demanded amount.\n\nGisco began to pay off the mercenaries nationality by nationality, and events might have ended there, but two mercenary leaders, Spendius and Mathos, fomented revolt among the Libyan troops, for their own personal reasons, and were eventually able to persuade the entire mercenary army to revolt. The mercenaries seized the Carthaginian negotiators and the money. Matho used the funds to pay off the amount due to the mercenaries and fund the war effort. After settling the mercenary payments, the rebels called upon the Libyan towns and cities under Carthaginian control to join the revolt. Several Libyan cities joined the revolt, providing men and funds (Libyan women donated personal possessions and jewels) to gather a force of 70,000. These events probably took place in the autumn-winter of 241 BC.\n\nMatho divided the rebel army into several detachments. Matho took two armies to cut off the cities of Utica and Hippacritae, while an army took up position along the only bridge over the River Macar linking Carthage and Utica. Spendius cut off Carthage from the mainland while rebels made Tunis their main base. The rebels had no siege weapons and decided not to assault the besieged towns, but they would from time to time advance on Carthage to terrorize the city.\n\nWith their navy shattered in the First Punic War and their mercenaries in revolt, Carthage could do little but man the walls as an immediate response to the revolt. Carthage raised an army from citizens and mercenaries, trained their cavalry, and refitted their navy, which probably took until the spring of 240 BC. Hanno the Great was put in command of the army, which included 110 elephants, but the exact number of troops is unknown. Hanno chose to relieve Utica, since rebels had cut off Carthage from the mainland; Hanno and his army were probably ferried to Utica by the Punic fleet, which was also under siege by the rebel army under Spendius. The exact size of the rebel force is not known. Hanno initially defeated the rebels encamped near Utica and captured the rebel camp, but his negligence and the lax discipline of the Carthaginian army enabled the rebels to regroup, launch a surprise attack, capture the Carthaginian camp, and drive the Carthaginian survivors into Utica. Hanno’s army later left Utica but failed several times to engage the rebels under favorable conditions. Carthage decided to raise a new army and recalled Hamilcar Barca to command. The rebels continued their blockade of Carthage, Utica, and Hippo Acra.\n\nWhile Hanno the Great was campaigning against the rebels, Carthage had cobbled together another army raised from citizens, rebel deserters, and newly hired mercenaries, numbering 8,000 foot, 2,000 horse and 70 elephants. Hamilcar Barca was given command of this force, and he spent some time training his soldiers. Carthage made no fresh move against the rebels. Hanno and his army continued watching the two rebel camps at Hippo Acra. The rebel army under Spendius, numbering 15,000, was blockading Utica. Another 10,000 strong rebel army was encamped near the only bridge across the River Bagradas, the exact location is not known. Note that the course of the Bagradas river changed numerous times since the 3rd century BC, therefore the battle likely took place south of the current mouth of the river. \n\nOnce his army was properly trained, Hamilcar did not attack the rebels blockading Carthage head on. Instead, he sought to gain the freedom to maneuver and fight the rebels on his own terms. The rebel base at Tunis and rebel dispositions, which probably barricaded the passes on the hills between Djebdl Ammar and Djebel Nahli, cut Carthage off from the mainland. Hamilcar had observed that, when the wind blew from a certain direction, a sandbar was uncovered on the river mouth, which made the Bagradas River fordable.\n\nHamilcar marched his army out of Carthage at night along the north shore of the isthmus towards the mouth of the Bagradas River. His movement was not detected by the rebels and at the first opportunity he crossed the Bagradas River along the sandbar. Hamilcar’s army was free to manoeuvre in the African countryside.\n\nCarthaginian citizens normally wore armor, greaves, and Greek style helmets, carried a round shield, long spear, and sword, and fought in phalanx formation. Carthaginian citizens and the Libyo-Phoenicians provided disciplined, well-trained cavalry equipped with thrusting spears and round shields. Any mercenaries in Hanno the Great’s army may have resembled the rebels they were facing. Carthage also used elephants, probably African Forest and Indian elephants as shock troops. The elephants were ridden by specially trained riders, some of whom may have come from ancient India or Syria.\n\nThe rebel army had Libyans, Iberians, Gauls, Greeks, and probably Thracians and Scythians present, along with Campanians and Roman deserters. The Libyan heavy infantry fought in close formation, armed with long spears and round shields, wearing helmets and linen cuirasses. The light Libyan infantry carried javelins and a small shield, same as Iberian light infantry. The Iberian infantry wore purple bordered white tunics and leather headgear. The heavy Iberian infantry fought in a dense phalanx, armed with heavy throwing spears, long body shields, and short thrusting swords. Campanian, Sardinian, Sicel, and Gallic infantry fought in their native gear, but often were equipped by Carthage. Sicels, Sardinians, and other Sicilians were equipped like Greek Hoplites, as were the Sicilian Greek mercenaries. Balearic Slingers fought in their native gear.\n\nNumidians provided superb light cavalry armed with bundles of javelins and riding without bridle or saddle, and light infantry armed with javelins. Iberians and Gauls also provided cavalry, which relied on the all out charge.\n\nHamilcar’s army completed the river crossing unmolested and undetected by the rebels, and then moved towards the rebel camp near the bridge. Spendius led 15,000 troops from Utica to confront Hamilcar, while 10,000 rebels from the camp near the bridge also advanced towards Hamilcar’s position. Caught in a pincer movement, Hamilcar started to march north. The two rebels forces joined up and began to march north on a parallel course. The army of Spendius outnumbered Hamilcar’s army two to one, so he could afford to form his army in two lines, although the rebels had no elephants and nothing is known of their cavalry. Spendius extended his left flank to the north in an attempt to outflank the Carthaginians. His intention was to have his right flank stop the Carthaginian movement north while his main force attacked and pushed the Carthaginian army towards the river.\n\nSpendius' plan was foiled by Himalcar Barca’s brilliant counter-maneuver, which enabled his outnumbered and seemingly outmaneuvered army to emerge victorious in the ensuing battle. Exactly what Hamilcar did is not clearly known and the issue has been much discussed. It is known that Hamilcar pretended to retreat, which caused the rebels to launch a disorderly attack, while Hamilcar got his soldiers in battle formation to crush the rebels.\n\nAccording to one line of thought, the Carthaginian army's order of march had the War Elephants leading the column, with the light troops and cavalry behind the elephants. Heavy infantry formed the rearguard, and the whole army marched in a single file in battle formation.\n\nWhen Hamilcar observed Spendius extending his battle line to outflank the Carthaginian right flank and cut off the Carthaginian army’s line of advance, he ordered his elephants to turn right, away from the rebel army. The cavalry and light infantry did the same after the elephants, while the heavy infantry continued to move forward. The rebels mistook this for a withdrawal and rushed forward to engage. This wild charge disordered their battle line, some rebel units moving ahead of others.\n\nThe elephants then again turned right, followed by the Carthaginian light infantry and cavalry, so they were now moving south. Parallel to the heavy infantry in the opposite direction The Carthaginian infantry, moving northwards, stopped, turned left and formed a battle line, facing the onrushing rebels. The elephants, light infantry and cavalry are now positioned behind the Carthaginian heavy infantry battle line.\n\nThe Carthaginian elephants, light infantry and cavalry again turned right, divided into two divisions, and took their position on both flanks of the Carthaginian heavy infantry. The rebel formations no longer outflanked the Carthaginian army, and a solid battle line now confronted a disorderly rebel army.\n\nAccording to another line of thought, Hamilcar’s army marched in three separate columns, The war elephants were placed nearest the rebel army. The cavalry and light infantry was in the middle, while the heavy infantry was posted furthest from the rebel army.\n\nAs the three Carthaginian columns moved north, Spendius extended his left flank to overlap the Carthaginian formation and outflank and cut off the Carthaginians. Hamilcar’s army halted its march seeing this development. The cavalry and light infantry, and the elephants turned right, then moved through gaps in the heavy infantry formation. The rebels mistook this as a Carthaginian withdrawal and rushed forward to attack.\n\nThe Carthaginian heavy infantry next turns right, close gaps and form a battle line to face the rebels. The elephants, cavalry and light infantry split into two divisions, and move into position on the flanks of the Carthaginian heavy infantry. The rebel formations no longer outflanked the Carthaginian army, and a solid battle line confronted a disorderly rebel formation.\n\nAs the numerically superior but outgeneraled rebels closed and confronted the solid Carthaginian battle line, pandemonium ensued. Instead of hitting the Carthaginians with an orderly formation of infantry en masse, some rebel units engaged the Carthaginians before other units could arrive in support, while others stopped to regroup. As a result, some rebel units were thrown back by the Carthaginians, or as some of the units stopped their charge, the units following them ploughed straight into their back. Battle cohesion was lost and, before the rebels could reorder and regroup, Carthaginian cavalry and infantry charged the entangled rebel units. Scores of rebels were killed, and as the Carthaginian infantry followed up the cavalry and elephant charge, the rebel army broke and scattered, having lost 6,000 of their number. Carthaginian pursuit secured 2,000 prisoners.\n\nThe surviving rebels fled either to Utica or to their camp beside the bridge. Hamilcar, after mopping up the battle field, advanced on the rebel camp, forcing the rebels to flee to Tunes, where they were reunited with their commander Spendius. Hamilcar then moved towards Utica, forcing the rebels to flee to Hippo Acra. The rebel blockade of Utica was broken. Hamilcar had the choice to join up with Hanno and try to lift the rebel blockade of Hippo Acra as well. Instead he began to mop up the lands beside the Bagradas River, by force or diplomacy asserting Carthaginian authority over the rebel Libyan towns, thus cutting off the rebels from sources funds, recruits and provisions and ensuring Carthage can tap the same resources.\n\nThe main source for information about \"The Mercenary War\" comes from Polybius, a Greek historian writing many years after the events portrayed here, because no Punic primary sources survived into modern times. It is likely that he based much of his account on now-lost works of prior Greek and Roman historians, who are unlikely to have had an less biased view of Carthage.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263171", "title": "KXTE", "text": "KXTE\n\nKXTE (107.5 FM, X107-5) is an Alternative Rock radio station licensed to Pahrump, Nevada. Owned by Entercom, the station's studios are located in the unincorporated Clark County area of Spring Valley, while its transmitter is atop Potosi Mountain.\n\nKLVV began broadcasting in Las Vegas on the 107.5 frequency in April 1986. It was an adult contemporary station as \"K-Love.\" In November 1988 the station, now owned by EZ Communications, became KUDA, \"Oldies 108 FM.\" Norm N. Nite once had a show on the station, called \"Solid Gold Scrapbook\".\n\nIn 1989 KUDA was purchased by Americom Broadcasting, which owned stations in Reno and Fresno. Americom, headed by Tom Quinn, added Howard Stern's show to the station in 1992, changed the station's call-letters to KFBI and transitioned from oldies to classic rock in 1993. This was the first time Stern agreed to appear on a station outside of a top-10 radio market, and KFBI immediately surged to the top of ratings in Las Vegas, making KFBI the city's dominant radio station. Three years later Americom sold KFBI to American Radio Systems (ARS), where PD Mike Stern and GM Alan Gray changed the call letters to KXTE-FM and began playing alternative rock music. ARS later merged with Infinity Broadcasting (now CBS Radio). Stern stayed on KXTE until the station pulled him in November 2005, a month before he left terrestrial radio for Sirius Satellite Radio. He was replaced by Adam Carolla which ran from January 3, 2006 and ended on February 20, 2009. Dave Farra and Jason Mahoney, The Dave and Mahoney Morning Show (The DAM Morning Show), returned to the Las Vegas airwaves to take over mornings on April 20, 2009. On August 3, 2015, it was announced that the Dave and Mahoney Morning Show would be moving to CBS Radio sister station KHMX in Houston. On January 15, 2017 The Las Vegas Review Journal ran an article announcing that Dave and Mahoney would be returning to Las Vegas and KXTE starting February 6, 2017.\n\nOn February 2, 2017, CBS Radio announced it would merge with Entercom. The merger was approved on November 9, 2017, and was consummated on the 17th.\n\nDave Farra's interview with cast members from the 2011 season of MTV reality television series, \"\", who were promoting their fundraiser for \"Let the Kids Rock\" to raise money for school children, was depicted in that season's finale, which premiered on June 1, 2011.\n\n\nThe Dave, Mahoney & DK Morning Show\n\n"}
{"id": "2263173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263173", "title": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (D)", "text": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (D)\n"}
{"id": "2263175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263175", "title": "Tellurate", "text": "Tellurate\n\nIn chemistry tellurate is a compound containing an oxyanion of tellurium where tellurium has an oxidation number of +6. In the naming of inorganic compounds it is a suffix that indicates a polyatomic anion with a central tellurium atom.\n\nHistorically the name tellurate was only applied to oxyanions of tellurium with oxidation number +6, formally derived from telluric acid Te(OH), and the name tellurite referred to oxyanions of tellurium with oxidation number +4, formally derived from tellurous acid (HO)TeO and these names are in common use. However tellurate and tellurite are often referred to as tellurate(VI) and tellurate(IV) respectively in line with IUPAC renaming recommendations. \nThe metatellurate ion is and the orthotellurate ion is . Other oxyanions include pentaoxotellurate, , ditellurate, and polymeric anions with 6-coordinate tellurium such as ().\n\nThe metatellurate ion is analogous to the sulfate ion, and the selenate ion, . Whereas many sulfates and selenates form isomorphous salts the tetrahedral metatellurate ion is only found in a few compounds such as the tetraethylammonium salt NEtTeO. Many compounds with a stoichiometry that suggests the presence of a metatellurate ion actually contain polymeric anions containing 6-coordinate tellurium(VI), for example sodium tellurate, NaTeO which contains octahedral tellurium centers sharing edges.\n\nThe \"E\" or standard reduction potential value is significant as it gives an indication of the strength of the tellurate ion as an oxidizing agent.\n\nCompounds containing the octahedral anion are known, these include AgTeO, NaTeO and HgTeO. There are also hydroxyoxotellurates, containing protonated , such as (NH)TeO(OH) (sometimes written as NHTeO·2HO) which contains the octahedral ion.\n\nThe compound CsKTeO contains ions which are trigonal bipyramidal. The compound RbTeO contains both and anions. Other compounds whose stoichiometry suggests the presence of may contain either the dimeric made up of two edge-sharing {TeO} as in LiTeO and AgTeO or corner-sharing {TeO} octahedra as in HgTeO.\n\nThe dimeric made up of two edge sharing {TeO} octahedra is found in the compound, LiTeO. A similar hydroxy-oxy anion, TeO(OH) is found in sodium potassium ditellurate(VI) hexahydrate,NaKTeO(OH)·6HO which contains pairs of edge sharing octahedra.\nPolymeric chain anions consisting of corner-shared {TeO} octahedra (TeO) are found, for example in LiTeO.\n\nIn aqueous solution tellurate ions are 6 coordinate. In neutral conditions the pentahydrogen orthotellurate ion, , is the most common; in basic conditions, the tetrahydrogen orthotellurate ion, , and in acid conditions, orthotelluric acid, Te(OH) or HTeO is formed.\n\nSulfur(VI) oxyanions have a coordination number of 4 and in addition to the tetrahedral sulfate ion, , the pyrosulfate, , trisulfate, and pentasulfate ions all contain 4-coordinate sulfur and are built from corner-shared {SO} tetrahedra. Selenate compounds include many examples of four coordinate selenium, principally the tetrahedral ion and the pyroselenate ion, which has a similar structure to the pyrosulfate ion. Unlike sulfur there are examples of a 5-coordinate selenium oxyanion, and one example of .\n\nTellurium has two NMR active nuclei, Te and Te. Te has an abundance of 0.9% and a nuclear spin (I) of . Te has an abundance of 7% and an equivalent nuclear spin. Te is more commonly performed because it has a higher sensitivity. The metatellurate anion has a chemical shift around 610 ppm when analyzed using Te NMR at 25 °C at a frequency of 94.735 MHz and referenced externally against aqueous 1.0 M telluric acid.\n\nFollowing the IUPAC Red Book(2005) some examples are:\n"}
{"id": "2263176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263176", "title": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (E)", "text": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (E)\n"}
{"id": "2263178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263178", "title": "Mark 45 torpedo", "text": "Mark 45 torpedo\n\nThe Mark 45 anti-submarine torpedo, a.k.a. ASTOR, was a submarine-launched wire-guided nuclear torpedo designed by the United States Navy for use against high-speed, deep-diving, enemy submarines. This was one of several weapons recommended for implementation by Project Nobska, a 1956 summer study on submarine warfare. The -diameter torpedo was fitted with a W34 nuclear warhead. The need to maintain direct control over the warhead meant that a wire connection had to be maintained between the torpedo and submarine until detonation. Wire guidance systems were piggybacked onto this cable, and the torpedo had no homing capability. The design was completed in 1960, and 600 torpedoes were built between 1963 and 1976, when ASTOR was replaced by the Mark 48 torpedo.\n\nThis electrically propelled, -diameter torpedo was long and weighed . The W34 nuclear warhead used in ASTOR had an explosive yield of 11 kilotons. The requirement for positive control of nuclear warheads meant that ASTOR could only be detonated by a deliberate signal from the firing submarine, which necessitated a wire link. Because of this, the torpedo was only fitted with wire guidance systems (transmitted over the same link), and had no homing capability. The torpedo had a range of . By replacing the nuclear warhead and removing the wire guidance systems, the torpedo could be reconfigured for unguided launch against surface targets.\n\nProduction of ASTOR began in 1959 and it entered service soon after. Approximately 600 torpedoes were built by 1976, when the torpedo was replaced by the Mark 48 torpedo. The ASTORs were collected, fitted with conventional warheads and wake homing guidance systems, then sold to foreign navies as the Mark 45 Mod 1 Freedom Torpedo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263187", "title": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (F)", "text": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (F)\n"}
{"id": "2263191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263191", "title": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (G)", "text": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (G)\n"}
{"id": "2263195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263195", "title": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (H)", "text": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (H)\n"}
{"id": "2263196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263196", "title": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (I)", "text": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (I)\n"}
{"id": "2263197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263197", "title": "Margaret Forrest", "text": "Margaret Forrest\n\nMargaret Elvire Forrest, Lady Forrest (22 October 1844 – 13 June 1929 in Picton, Bunbury), born Margaret Elvire Hamersley, was the wife of Sir John Forrest. Born in Le Havre, France, she was a member of the prominent and wealthy Hamersley family; her father was Edward Hamersley (Senior), and amongst her brothers were Edward Hamersley (Junior) and Samuel Hamersley. She married Forrest in 1876 and enjoyed many years in public life, as John Forrest became the first Premier of Western Australia, and later a federal politician. Their family residence was \"The Bungalow\" at 870 Hay Street, Perth.\n\nLady Forrest had a great interest in fine arts. She had an interest in native plants, and was an accomplished painter of wildflowers. She was a founding member of the Wilgie Club, the first artists' society in Western Australia, and exhibited six wildflower watercolours in the Wilgie First Annual Exhibition of Paintings in 1890. After her death in 1929, her collection was bequeathed to the Art Gallery of Western Australia.\n\nIn September 1889 Ellis Rowan joined Margaret Forrest in a painting tour. At Boolantha Station, north of Carnarvon, and Geraldton, they painted desert flowers. Their joint exhibition at the Perth Railway Station Reading Room on 5 November is thought to have been the first art exhibition ever held in the colony.\n\nForrest was a founding member of the Karrakatta Club, the first women's club in Australia.\n\nIn Western Australia, Mt Margaret and Mt Elvire, between Laverton and Leonora; and Margaret River and Elvire River in the Kimberley region were named after her.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263198", "title": "37th Armor Regiment", "text": "37th Armor Regiment\n\nThe 37th Armor is an armor (tank) regiment of the United States Army. It is often remembered as the successor to the 37th Tank Battalion, 4th Armored Division, commanded by then Lieutenant Colonel Creighton Abrams (the namesake of the M1 Abrams) during World War II.\n\nThe 37th Armored Regiment (37th Armor) was constituted 13 January 1941 in the Regular Army as the 7th Armored Regiment (7th Armor) and assigned to the 4th Armored Division (4th Armored) when the Armored Division was activated on 15 April 1941 at Pine Camp (now Fort Drum), New York. The 7th Armor Regiment was redesignated the 37th Armored Regiment on 8 May 1941. The first filler personnel arrived at Pine Camp four days later, and two weeks after that a thirteen-week basic training cycle was begun. Training in the fundamentals of armor began, despite the fact that there were only twenty one tanks in the entire 4th Armored Division. Many of the 37th Armor's key personnel were selected to cadre the 8th Armored Division.\n\nIn October 1942, the 4th Armored Division moved to Camp Forrest in Tullahoma, Tennessee on the Cumberland Plateau for maneuvers. In November, they moved again, to the West Coast Desert Training Center, first occupying Camp Ibis near Needles, California, California (in the Mojave Desert) and the Arizona and Nevada borders. During this time, some of the lessons learned in combat in North Africa by the 1st Armored Division and 2nd Armored Division were taught to the 4th Armored Division. In early June 1943, orders came for the 4th Armored Division to dismount at Camp Bowie, an Armored Division training center near Brownwood, Texas.\nOn 10 September 1943, the 4th Armored Division including the 37th Armored Regiment was reorganized in a new table of organization and equipment for most U.S. armored divisions. The 37th Regiment's Headquarters and Headquarters Company and its 1st Battalion and 2nd Battalion (less Company D) were redesignated as the 37th Tank Battalion.\n\nThe 3rd Battalion was reorganized and redesignated as the 706th Tank Battalion and relieved from assignment to the 4th Armored Division. The 706th spent the war as a separate battalion. Reconnaissance Company was redesignated and reorganized as Troop F, 25th Cavalry Reconnaissance Squadron, Mechanized, a separate element of the 4th Armored Division – hereafter separate lineage. Maintenance and Service Companies were disbanded, with the personnel and equipment distributed throughout the two battalions. Following the reorganization, the 706th Tank Battalion deployed from the San Francisco Port of Embarkation on 22 March 1944 and arrived at Hawaii on 29 April 1944. From there, they deployed on LSTs in support of Admiral Chester Nimitz' wing of the Pacific Island Hopping Campaign. 706th Tank Battalion was on Guam by 22 July 1944; on The Philippines by 23 November 1944; on Ie Shima by 16 April 1945; and on Okinawa by 25 April 1945.\n\nThe 37th Tank Battalion (37th TB) was now, together with the 35th Tank Battalion and 8th Tank Battalion (redesignated from 3rd Battalion, 35th Armored Regiment), the nucleus of the 4th Armored Division. On 15 November 1943, Major General John S. Wood who commanded the 4th Armored Division, announced that the 4th Armored Division would deploy overseas. On 11 December 1943, the 4th Armored Division moved northeast by train, unloading at Camp Myles Standish, Massachusetts, on 20 December 1943 for winter training. The 4th AD sailed from the Boston Port of Embarkation on 29 December 1943. They arrived in England for more training on 8 January 1944, and – after getting used to the local environment, and waiting for the D-Day invasion success at Normandy on 6 June, they proceeded to France on 11 July 1944 as part of the follow-on force.\n\nThe 37th Tank Battalion moved to Southern England and prepared for transport to France. On 13 July 1944, the 4th AD and the 37th TB reached Utah Beach, but for the most of the remainder of July 1944, the 37th simply waited in reserve as the 4th AD relieved elements of the weary 4th Infantry Division.\n\nThe 4th Armored Division was ordered to combat on 28 July 1944, as the U.S. First Army launched its breakout attack. The infantry divisions on both sides of the 4th AD attacked and \"pinched out\" the division, then the 4th AD attacked through the infantry divisions lines and began to race for the neck of the Brittany peninsula. The 37th was traveling at the forefront of this move with Colonel Bruce C. Clarke's Combat Command Alpha (CCA). The next day, Coutances fell, and then Avranches, at the northern edge of the neck of Brittany, fell on 30 July.\n\nOn its way across Brittany, the 4th Armored became part of General Patton's Third Army when it became operational on 1 August 1944. By 9 August 1944 the 37th was approaching Lorient, on the southern edge of Brittany. On 14 August 1944 the siege of Lorient was turned over to the 6th Armored Division and the 37th turned eastward with the rest of the Third Army, which was beginning its historic race across France. VII Corps was the southernmost corps of the Third Army, 4th Armored Division was on the VII Corps southern flank, and the 37th Tank Battalion was protecting the southern flank of the division. There was nothing south of the 37th except the Loire River and the Germans.\n\nThe commander of the 37th Tank Battalion, Lieutenant Colonel Creighton W. Abrams (who later became commander of all U.S. Forces in Vietnam and then the Army Chief of Staff), in an odd move, detached a task force under Major Edward Bautz to blow up the Loire River bridges between Blois and Tours, but they found upon arrival that their work had been done by the Wehrmacht. This task force then followed the Loire's northern bank, paralleling the advance of the main body. On 16 August 1944 a German column was sighted on the south bank. Major Bautz's tankers attacked this column, inflicting losses and driving the Germans back from the river.\n\nThe 37th crossed the Seine on 25 August 1944, and the Marne on 23 August 1944. The Marne Canal was bridged and the town of Châlons was attacked from the east, to the consternation of the defending garrison, which was expecting an assault on the western edge of town.\n\nOn 31 August 1944, in a quick attack during a driving rainstorm, the 37th captured the bridge across the Meuse River at Commercy before the Germans could blow it up. The next day, the gasoline ration had run out, and the 37th ground to a halt. By this time, the 37th had advanced in seven weeks, crossed three major rivers and was within one day's motor march of the German border, only seventy miles to the northwest.\n\nOn 13 September 1944, the M4 tanks of the 37th crossed the Moselle River. On 14 September 1944 they overran the rear command post of the 15th Panzer Grenadier Division at Arracourt and, in Valhey, caught the same division's forward echelon command post before it could retreat. It was at Valhey, that Sergeant Joe Sadowski of Company A, 37th Tank Battalion, would become a Medal of Honor recipient. This non-commissioned officer from Perth Amboy, New Jersey was commander of the second tank column as the 37th rolled into the French town. Swinging north around a corner, Sadowski's M4 tank clattered into the village square, where a German armor-piercing round found its mark and set the Sherman afire against the town's water trough. Sadowski had his crew dismounted and took shelter behind a building after running a gauntlet of machine gun and small arms fire. The bow gunner was found to be missing, and a quick glance at the burning tank showed the gunner's hatch still closed tight. Sadowski ...\"ran back to his tank, clambered up the smoking front slope plate and tried to pry open the gunner's hatch with his bare hands. He stood on the smoking tank and strained at the hatch until he had been hit so many times he could no longer stand. He slid from his medium [tank] and died in the mud beside its tracks\". His father and mother were given his posthumous Medal of Honor.\n\nFrom 19 September through 22 September 1944 the Germans tried to push the 37th back across the Moselle River. At Moyenvic, the 37th saw one of the largest tank-to-tank engagements of the war, losing 14 Sherman tanks while claiming to have knocked out 55 Panther and Tiger tanks. The German counterattack was unsuccessful.\n\nOn 22 September 1944 the 37th's M4 tanks swept south again through Coincourt and Bures to the Rhine-Marne Canal. Counterattack followed counterattack as the desperate Wehrmacht tried to dislodge the 3rd Army from its position, but as the toll of Panthers mounted, the attacks dwindled in intensity and finally ceased. The 37th was relieved on 12 October 1944 by elements of the 26th (Yankee) Infantry Division. For its tenacity in the Moselle River valley, the 37th was awarded (4th AD cited) its second French Croix de guerre with Palm (its first when the 4th AD was cited for Normandy). The 37th's tankers were pulled off line for a rest after 87 straight days of combat.\n\nThe 37th moved out in a downpour on 9 November 1944 to deprive Hitler of the industrial Saar River Valley. On 11 November 1944 the 37th was caught on the road and lost six tanks because they could not maneuver off-road due to the bottomless mud. On 8 December 1944 the 37th passed through the old French Maginot Line and took Singling. Two days later it was relieved again, by elements of the 12th Armored Division, and sent to the rear for another rest, although not so far back that elements of the battalion were not in intermittent contact with German forces.\n\nOn 16 December 1944, Sherman tanks of Company A, 37th Tank Battalion were the first 4th Armored Division vehicles to enter Germany when they chased several German tanks back into the woods near Rimling. The same day Company A entered the Reich, Hitler had played his last trump north of where the 4th Armored Division was resting from its five months in action. The German 5th Panzer Army, the last of the German strategic reserves, spearheaded the attack by Field Marshal Model's Army Group B that opened the \"Battle of the Bulge\". Its objective was the port of Antwerp and allied depots nearby.\n\nOn 18 December 1944, the 37th got its march order—to move north against the German penetration, which was causing alarm to the Allied High Command. On the same day, the 101st Airborne Division was moved by truck to establish a strongpoint at the key road and rail junction of Bastogne, in Belgium. By the time the 37th arrived at the south flank of the German penetration, the 101st Airborne was cut off on all sides by the enemy drive. The 37th became the spearhead of the 4th Armored Division's drive to relieve the paratroopers in Bastogne. The 37th moved out in a feathery snowfall at 0600 hours on 22 December 1944, attacking northward against German airborne troops. The 37th Tank Battalion and the 53rd Armored Infantry Battalion made up the 4th Armored Division's Combat Command-B (CCB). In a bloody engagement against German paratroopers wearing American uniforms, CCB took Bigonville.\n\nAt 0200 Christmas morning, CCB marched thirty miles west to the 4th Armored Division's left flank. At 0700 the 37th jumped off from Bercheaux and swiftly took Bauxles-Rosieres, Nives and Remoiville. At dawn on 26 December 1944, the 37th struck again, taking Remichampagne, and then seizing the high ground near Chochiment, only three miles from Bastogne. Announcing the plan to relieve the surrounded 101st Airborne Division, LTC Abrams, commanding the 37th, made the undramatic statement, \"We're going in to those people now.\" The lead vehicle in that attack was a Sherman tank nicknamed \"Cobra King\" and commanded by 1st Lt. Charles Boggess Jr., of Greenville, Illinois. Boggess was the commanding officer of Company C, 37th Tank Battalion. There were but eight other tanks in Company C when the \"move out\" order came, but at 1515 hours all nine sets of sprockets turned, leading the 37th northward to the embattled 101st Airborne Division.\n\nTwo towns lay between the 37th and Bastogne, Clochimont and Assenois, and they were both heavily defended by German troops. Beyond Assenois was a heavy wood, concealing the blockhouses that enclosed the road to Bastogne. Company C's mission was to barge through these defenses in high gear, stopping for nothing and leaving the mopping up to the companies following, which were supported by the 53d Armored Infantry Battalion. At 1645 Lt. Boggess shook hands with 2nd Lt. Webster of Company A, 326th Airborne Engineer Battalion, 101st Airborne Division and in twenty-five minutes Lt.Col. Abrams and his S3, Capt. William Dwight, reported to BG Anthony C. McAuliffe, acting Commanding General of the 101st Airborne Division.\n\nThe fight was not over. Lt. Boggess' tank company now consisted of just four M4 Sherman tanks, and the rest of the 37th suffered similarly. By now the 37th was joined by elements of the 26th Infantry Division in fighting to hold the corridor open to Bastogne. Counterattack followed counterattack, until on 9 January 1945, the German penetration had been pushed to the east of Bastogne. The shattered German forces began to withdraw to their homeland. For its relief of Bastogne, the 37th was awarded the Presidential Unit Citation (4th AD cited).\n\nOn 10 January 1945, the 37th was attacking east of Bastogne when the order came to halt. After a masterful disengagement and an icy road march south to Luxembourg, the 37th again found itself in the Third Army reserve, ready to answer a fire call.\n\nIn the rugged country of the Rhineland, it was mainly an Infantry war, but the 37th followed close behind the attackers, ready to break through the West Wall when a breach was secured. Finally, on 22 February 1945, General Patton unleashed his tanks and Outscheid (24 February), Mioderwinger, Baustert, Feilsdorf, and Koosbrisch quickly fell to the 37th, which was then with Combat Command B under the command of the 80th Division.\n\nOn 25 February 1945, Company B, 37th Tank Battalion, with Company B, 51st Armored Infantry Battalion, took the bridge over the Prum at Remesdorf. Companies C of the 37th and 51st took the high ground around Rittersdorf and established a base of fire while the combined A Companies of the two battalions took Rittersdorf and a bridgehead over the Nims River. More than 1,000 prisoners of war were taken in this action. In only four days the 37th had led the 4th AD and the Third Army as it pierced the Siegfried Line. A German counterattack near Sefferweich was repulsed while the 37th rested for the next venture. Farther north, the U.S. First Army was fighting its way into Cologne to set the stage for the dash to the Rhine.\n\nOn 5 March 1945 the 37th's M4 tanks attacked through the 5th Infantry Division's bridgehead over the Kyll River and immediately cut across German combat zones to a distance of . On 16 March 1945, LT Joe Liese, the commanding officer of Company B, 37th Tank Battalion, captured General von Rothkirch, commanding general of the German 53rd Army Corps \"(LIII.Armeekorps)\". General von Rothkirch was driving his car on an inspection tour near Potzberg, where he stumbled on Company B. By the afternoon of that day, the 37th was even past German artillery positions. Prisoners from the German 10th Woodchopping Battalion surrendered to the advancing tankers. The 37th sped on to Ochtendung, and captured a billeting party from the German Seventh Army rear command post. When almost to the Rhine, LT Liese's tank company overtook a German wheel column and, with assistance from artillery and light aircraft, shot it up badly. Then the 37th moved to the Rhine and took up positions over watching the river.\n\nDuring the night, remnants of the Wehrmacht tried to get back across the Rhine. In doing so, numerous enemy vehicles stumbled into the 37th's position and were captured or destroyed. On 7 March 1945 the U.S. First Army thrust north from Cologne, pinning what was left of the German Seventh Army between it and the 4th Armored Division. It was in this drive that the U.S. 9th Armored Division captured the Remagen bridge intact. On 8 March 1945, Colonel Abrams left the 37th to command CCB and Major Bautz assumed command of the 37th Tank Battalion. For the next two weeks the 37th was engaged in cleaning out the Palatinate, the triangle formed by the Saar, Rhine and Moselle Rivers. On St. Patrick's Day 1945 the 37th entered the Spa City of Bad Kreuznach, and on 21 March 1945 it returned to the banks of the Rhine at Worms.\n\nOn 25 March 1945, the U.S. Third Army crossed the Rhine. The 5th Infantry Division crossed in United States Navy landing craft near Oppenheim before the Germans could fire a shot. When the east bank was secure, a pontoon bridge was quickly constructed, and by 0300 on 26 March 1945, the 37th was across with the rest of the 4th Armored Division. The 37th advanced through the 5th Infantry Division perimeter; by noon Company D's light tanks and Infantry from the 10th Armored Infantry Battalion captured a railroad bridge intact near Aschaffenburg over the Main River. Meanwhile, Combat Command A (CCA) had secured the Main crossing near Hanau. The 37th, with the rest of CCB, sideslipped west and followed CCA across the Main on 28 March 1945. By dusk, the 37th's M4 tanks were in Giessen, north of Hanau. The Frankfurt-Berlin Autobahn was the 4th Armored Division's axis of advance. The 37th reached Hersfeld (today Bad Hersfeld) the last day of March. On 2 April 1945, under heavy air attack, the 37th crossed the Werra.\n\nIn actuality, the entire 37th Tank Battalion did not reach Giessen the night of the 28th, for Company C and one platoon of Company D's tanks had been detached for a special mission called Task Force Baum. They reported on 26 March 1945 to Captain Abraham J. Baum. Besides elements from the 37th, it consisted of Company A, a reconnaissance platoon, and an assault gun platoon from the HQ Company, 10th AIB – all in all 313 soldiers and 57 vehicles. Their mission was to liberate 1,500 American prisoners of war in OFLAG XIII-B, a POW-Camp for officers, located at Hammelburg, sixty miles behind German lines. The orders came directly from General Patton, who wanted to get his son-in-law, LtCol John K. Waters liberated.\n\nAt 2100 hours on 26 March, Company B of the 37th and Company B of the 10th AIB punched a hole in the German line at Schweinheim. Through this hole went Task Force Baum \"(TF Baum)\", which in turn found itself alone in the enemy area. On 27 March a weak radio transmission was monitored reporting enemy troops marshaling at Gemünden. As Gemunden was three quarter way to Hammelburg, it was an indication that TF Baum was well on its way. Messages later that afternoon told of losing four medium tanks, two officers and eighteen men wounded or killed. Then the messages petered out. On 29 March 1945, 4th Armored Division headquarters reported \"No news of Baum\". At 2000 hours that night Radio Berlin reported that a great victory had been achieved by the German army near Hammelburg; later reports even claimed annihilation of the entire 4th Armored Division, which was known to the enemy as \"Roosevelt's Butchers\". On 6 April 1945, by which time the rest of the 37th was deep in Saxony, Company C and Company D's platoon were reported missing in action and replacements for them and their equipment were requisitioned. Finally, on 9 April 1945, Captain Baum returned to American lines and the fate of the task force was determined.\n\nAccording to the 4th Armored Division history:\n\"\"...the task force battled through more than two German divisions to the Hammelburg Stalag. On the way, the column took 200 prisoners, including a general and his staff, destroyed enemy troop trains, shot up towns, knocked out German tanks, vehicles and uncounted Germans [Removed racial slur—ed.]. The light force suffered. Bridges were blown in front, both sides and behind the onrushing tanks. A span was blasted as American and German infantrymen fought on it. The task force smashed road blocks, raced down highways, sneaked on back roads and followed compass courses across country.\"\"\n\n\"\"When they reached their objective, half of Task Force Baum was left in fighting shape. The armored infantrymen who had not been wounded rode the remaining tanks. Wounded men lay on the gas cans in the half-tracks and helped steady each other at the machine guns. The seriously wounded were left behind with the dead along the side of the road.\"\"\n\nAgainst ever-stiffening resistance by an enemy who thought an entire division had broken through the Main River defense line, Captain Baum's decimated column finally reached the stalag near dark on 27 March 1945. After a fierce fight, the prisoners were released, armed, and mounted on the back decks of Company C's tanks for the ride back to friendly lines. Captain Baum directed the remnants of his force northeastward, but by now the area was swarming with German infantry and armor. By morning of the 28th all the task force's vehicles had been knocked out. The force then broke into groups of four or five and attempted to exfiltrate back to American lines. Thirty-five men finally made it. The rest were killed or captured. Of the 313 officers and men of Task Force Baum, 9 were killed, 32 were wounded, the rest were prisoners at one time or another. Only a few made it back to the US lines, to tell what had happened.\n\nAlthough they did not accomplish their mission, the tankers and infantry of TF Baum contributed a great deal to the Central Europe Campaign. No less than an entire German corps was diverted to seeking out and achieving the destruction of the two-company American task force.\n\nBy April 1945 the 37th had driven deep into central Germany when it was relieved by elements of the 80th Infantry Division. The 37th then marched south and drove into Czechoslovakia, where they were when the war ended on 6 May 1945. The 37th then participated in the task of disarming the Wehrmacht and set up shop in Bavaria as part of the occupation forces on 27 May 1945.\n\n\n\n\n\nOn 11 December 1951, while still on inactive status, the 37th was converted and again designated as the 37th Tank battalion. It was assigned to the 4th Armored Division on 25 February 1953 and then activated on 15 June 1954 with the rest of the division at Fort Hood, Texas.\n\nIn April 1957, the Army reinstated its regimental system. As a consequence, the history of the 37th Armor Battalion is now kept by individual battalions of the 37th Armor Regiment.\n\nIn a short six-month period during 1990 and 1991, the 37th Armor, was alerted for deployment to Operation Desert Shield/Desert Storm, deployed all of its personnel and equipment over 3,000 miles (4,800 km) from an already forward deployed location, fought a major battle against a well equipped enemy over terrain they had never trained on and then redeployed the unit to its home station\n\nIn response to the Global War on Terror 37th Armor deployed to Iraq in 2003 and again in 2006. During those deployments the unit was instrumental in the Battle of Karbala in 2004 and the Battle of Ramadi in 2006. Additionally the unit was involved in direct combat action in Baghdad, Falluja, and the Ninewa Province. 1-37 Armor was awarded the Presidential and Navy Unit citations due to these deployments.\n\nBattalions of a regiment are typically abbreviated as, for example, \"4–37 AR BN\", which is usually verbalized as \"Four Three Seven Armor\" (but sometimes as \"4th of the 37th Armor\" \"(archaic)\"). This would be the 4th Battalion of the 37th Armor \"Regiment\", even though in the modern United States Army, regiments exist mostly for heraldic purposes, as opposed to operational purposes.\n\n1–37 Armor was stationed at McKee Barracks in Crailsheim, Germany from Jan 1958– June 1966. During the period July 1966–July 1969, the Battalion moved to Hindenburg Kaserne in Ansbach, Germany. However, From July 1969– May 1988 the battalion was stationed at Bismarck Kaserne in Katterbach, Germany. In May 1988, the Battalion moved to Rose Barracks in Vilseck, Germany. Following redesignation in Feb 1997, the battalion was stationed at Ray Barracks in Friedberg, Germany until Inactivation 8 May 2007. In July 2008 the battalion was re-activated at Fort Bliss, Texas. 1–37 Armor inactivated on 1/11/2011 at Fort Bliss, Texas. In June 2015, 1-37 Armor was reactivated at Fort Bliss Texas where it is stationed today. The most recent 1–37 Armor called themselves the 'Bandits'. The Cold War/Desert Storm era 1–37 AR from Vilseck, Germany was nicknamed \"Dragon Battalion\". The Courage Conquers motto traces its history to WWII. Abrams' Standards was founded in 1982. Bandits never fail those with whom they serve - traces its history to the 4-67 Armor Bandits before it was reflagged 1-37 Armor in Feb 1997. The 37th Armor Alumni Association conducts annual reunions with former soldiers and leaders of four 37th Armor battalions. The Alumni consists of more than 2,700 37th Armor Veterans from all eras of the fabled unit's history (1941–Present).\n\n\n\n\nIn a short six-month period during 1990 and 1991, the 1st Battalion, 37th Armor, was alerted for deployment to Operation Desert Shield/Desert Storm, deployed all of its personnel and equipment over from an already forward deployed location, fought a major battle against a well equipped enemy over terrain they had never trained on and then redeployed the unit to its home station.\n\nThe 1st Battalion 37th Armor (1st Armored Division) from Rose Barracks, Vilseck, Germany, commanded by LTC Edward L. Dyer, was alerted for deployment to the Persian Gulf on 8 November 1990. 1–37 Armor was the first brigade unit from Vilseck to deploy. 1–37 Armor was attached to the 3rd \"Bulldog\" Brigade from Warner Barracks in Bamberg, Germany, under their former commander, Colonel Daniel Zannini. A small advance party deployed on 14 December and the main body began departing on 26 December. By 30 December, the battalion had arrived in Saudi Arabia. Vehicles and equipment which had been shipped from ports in Europe began to arrive on 4 January and by 12 January all the equipment had arrived. When hostilities commenced on 15 January 1991, the battalion was in the process of closing the last elements into TAA Thompson. The next month was spent task organizing, training, rehearsing, and preparing for the ground war.\n\nOn 24 February, Task Force 1–37 crossed the line of departure as part of VII Corps' attack against Iraqi forces. On 25 February, the battalion attacked and seized the division headquarters of the Iraqi 26th Infantry Division destroying four armored vehicles, eight air defense weapons and captured over forty Enemy Prisoners of War (EPW). After attacking all day on 26 February, TF 1–37, part of 3rd Brigade, 1st Armored Division, made contact with a brigade of the Tawakalna Armored Division of the Republican Guard Forces Command (RGFC) which had established a defensive position to protect the flank of the RGFC and facilitate their escape from Kuwait. After a thirty-minute fire fight, TF 1–37 was ordered to assault the enemy position. The assault, conducted at night, in driving rain, resulted in the destruction of twenty-six T-72 tanks, 47 armored personnel carriers (mostly BMP's) and a handful of other vehicles, as well as the capture of over one hundred EPWs. TF 1–37 suffered the loss of four M1A1 tanks destroyed and six personnel wounded in action. After consolidation and reorganization, the task force continued the attack throughout the night of 26–27 February, reestablishing contact with the RGFC at approximately 0530, 27 February. The task force continued to attack, fighting numerous engagements with elements of multiple Iraqi divisions throughout the 27th and into the morning of 28 February. At 0800 local time, 28 February, the task force established a hasty defensive position astride the Iraq-Kuwait border. During the last 28 hours of the attack, TF 1–37 destroyed an additional thirty-one tanks, thirty-one BMPs, numerous other APCs, air defense weapons and trucks, and captured over 200 EPWs.\n\nFour days after the cease fire, TF 1–37 moved nine miles (14 km) further into Kuwait. Two missions were conducted to destroy additional enemy weapons, ammunition and equipment, bury enemy remains, and to recover the four M1A1's which had been destroyed on 26 February.\n\nOn 24 March, TF 1–37 moved back into Iraq and established a defensive position in the vicinity of the Rumayilah oil fields. For the next three weeks, task force missions centered on refugee assistance and security operations. On 10 April, TF 1–37 began movement to the Rear Assembly Area (RAA) in the vicinity of King Khalid Military City (KKMC), Saudi Arabia. By 13 April, the task force had closed into the RAA and preparations began for the redeployment of the unit to Germany.\n\nOn 16 August 1991 the 1st Brigade, 1st Armored Division was reflagged as the 3d Brigade, 3d Infantry Division.\n\n\nOn 10 May 2003, 1-37 Armor Battalion left Ray Barracks in Friedberg, Germany and deployed to Iraq. Upon arrival in Baghdad in early June, 1st Battalion quickly established their forward operating base (FOB) on Baghdad Island, a small peninsula on the Tigris River, and formerly a recreational resort and amusement park for the elite of Saddam Hussein's Regime. Over the course of the next eleven months, the soldiers of 1st Battalion conducted thousands of area security patrols, and several hundred operations ranging in size from a few\ndozen men to an enormous brigade level operation on Christmas Eve, 2003 which involved over 1000 soldiers from the 1st Brigade of the 1st Armored Division conducting a cordon and search operation of a large neighborhood in north central Baghdad.\n\nUpon receiving orders for a 90-day extension of their one-year deployment in April 2004, 1st Battalion moved to the south of Baghdad to the ancient city of Karbala, which had recently fallen to the control of members of the Mahdi Army, followers of the radical Shi'ite cleric Muqtada al-Sadr. After several days of shaping operations, the battalion captured an abandoned hotel in the center of the city and began using it as a strong point from which to conduct operations. Over the next ten days, the battalion engaged in some of the most intense urban warfare experienced by a single unit of the US Army since World War II. After driving the remnants of the Mahdi Army from Karbala, the BN then engaged in several weeks of civil-military operations before returning to Baghdad to prepare for the trip home to Germany. 1st Battalion, 37th Armored was awarded their second Presidential Unit Citation for their actions in Karbala.\n\nThe battalion was deployed again in support of Operation Iraq Freedom in the end of 2005 and returned to Germany in the beginning of 2007. During this deployment the battalion saw direct combat in the Ninewa province of northern Iraq followed by combat operations in the Al Anbar province, to include the Battle of Ramadi, in which it was awarded the Navy Unit Citation for its pivotal role in the retaking of the city of Ramadi from a massive and violent force of well armed and organized extremists.\n\nThe battalion was deactivated in April 2007. On 27 October 2008, 1st BN, 37th Armored was re-activated at Fort Bliss, Texas as part of 1AD's redeployment to the Continental United States (CONUS). 1–37 Armor deployed once again to Iraq in November 2009. As 1st Brigade, 1st Armored Division converted to a Stryker brigade, 1–37 Armor deactivated on 11 January 2011. On 18 June 2015, 1-37 Armor was reactivated at Fort Bliss, Texas as part of 2nd Brigade, 1AD.\n\nThe 2nd Battalion, 37th Armored Regiment, known as the Iron Dukes, or simply Dukes, was a forward deployed tank battalion located in the Federal Republic of Germany. The unit was nestled in the rolling hills of the German State of Hessen, in the city of Friedberg. It occupied Ray Barracks along with 1st Battalion, 36th Infantry Regiment; 501st Forward Support Battalion; Headquarters, 1st Brigade; and its sister battalion; 1st Battalion, 37th Armored Regiment. As a member of the Ready First Combat Team, it was one of many units that make up the 1st Armored Division. In May 2003, the Dukes deployed from Ray Barracks to central Baghdad, Iraq, for a 15-month mission in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. By February 2007, the \"Iron Dukes\" had returned from their second tour in Iraq, during which they served in the city of Tal Afar, and later to Ar Ramadi. The 2nd Battalion, 37th Armored Regiment was inactivated on April 2007. The battalion re-activated during a ceremony at Fort Bliss on 20 June 2019, as the Ready First Combat Team (1st Brigade, 1st Armored Division) re-equipped from a Stryker to an armored brigade.\n\n\n\nThe 3rd Battalion, 37th Armored Regiment saw combat in the Persian Gulf War from 24 February 1991 through 4 March 1991 organized as Task Force 3/37th Armor, the Unit was composed of HHC, B, and C Companies, 3/37th Armor; A and D Company, Second Battalion, Sixteenth Infantry; First Platoon of B Company and Second Platoon of C Company, Second Battalion, Third Air Defense Artillery; C Company, First Engineer Battalion; and Ground Surveillance Radar Team B, One Hundred and First Military Intelligence Battalion. As part of the 2nd Brigade of the 1st Infantry Division and VII Corps main effort, Task Force 3/37th Armor breached the Iraqi defense on 24 February 1991, clearing four passage lanes and expanding the gap under direct enemy fire. The Task Force then attacked 300 kilometers across southern Iraq into northern Kuwait, severing Iraqi lines of communication, and then drove north once again into Iraq to assist in the seizure of the City of Safwan, Iraq, and the securing of the Safwan Airfield; the Scout Platoon (HHC,3/37 AR) was part of the guard force under command of 1LT Craig Borchelt for the Coalition Forces-Iraqi Cease-Fire negotiations. During the operation, over fifty enemy combat vehicles were destroyed and over 1700 prisoners were captured. Throughout the Ground War, the soldiers performed with marked distinction under difficult and hazardous conditions. Their gallantry, determination, and Esprit de Corps guaranteed victory and maintained the finest traditions of the United States Army.\n\nAfter the Gulf War, the Dauntless Battalion continued to serve at Fort Riley as part of the 2nd Brigade Combat Team (Dagger), 1st Infantry Division from 1991-1996. In March 1996, Lieutenant Colonel Ronald G. Houle and Command Sergeant Major Craig Salminen cased the battalion's colors as the unit was re-designated as the 1st Battalion, 13th Armored Regiment as part of the 1st Infantry Division's move to Germany (2/1 ID reflagged to the 3rd Brigade Combat Team, 1st Armored Division). Although the 3-37AR's service on Custer Hill at Riley came to an end- its former Soldiers still proudly maintain its memory and pay tribute to its rich heritage as a U.S. Army armored unit. Courage Conquers- NO SLACK!\n\nThe 4th Battalion is known as the \"Thunderbolts\", a name taken from the name of LTC Abrams' tank during World War II.\n\nSome of its component units were stationed in West Germany in the 1960s, home base being Fort Knox Ky, attached to the 194th Armor BDE throughout the nineteen sixties and seventies. It supported the Armor school and rotated as an alert unit for El Dorado Canyon. 4–37 AR saw combat in the Persian Gulf War as part of the 2nd Brigade of the 1st Infantry Division.\n\nToday, 4–37 Armor is at Ft. Bliss, Texas where they are responsible for evaluating the Future Combat Systems of the U.S. Army. They are part of 5th Brigade, 1st Armored Division.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOperation Iraqi Freedom\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263199", "title": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (J)", "text": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (J)\n"}
{"id": "2263201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263201", "title": "Stephen H. Webb", "text": "Stephen H. Webb\n\nStephen H. Webb (March 13, 1961 – March 5, 2016) was a theologian and philosopher of religion.\n\nWebb graduated from Wabash College in 1983, earned his Ph.D. at the University of Chicago, and taught at Wabash College as Professor of Religion and Philosophy from 1988 to 2012. (He was on leave from Wabash College during 2012-13, and retired early to pursue writing opportunities full-time.) Born in 1961 and reared in Indianapolis, Indiana, he grew up at Englewood Christian Church, an evangelical church in the Restoration Movement. He recounts his experiences there in \"Taking Religion to School\" (Brazos Press, 2000) and in an essay, \"Recalling: A Theologian Remembers His Church,\" in \"Falling Toward Grace: Images of Religion and Culture from the Heartland\", ed. Kent Calder and Susan Neville (Indiana University Press, 1998). He joined the Disciples of Christ during graduate school but soon became disenchanted with their theological direction. He was briefly a Lutheran, and on Easter Sunday, 2007, he officially came into full communion with the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nHe was known for his scholarship and journalism on animals, vegetarianism, and diet. He co-founded the Christian Vegetarian Association, but was removed from his position as co-chairman in 2006 after writing several articles in which he admitted to eating meat occasionally, while promoting vegetarianism. He defended the value of animals by reaffirming traditional notions of human uniqueness and human responsibility for nature. Many animal rights arguments are influenced by a leveling of the differences between humans and animals as well as a leveling of the differences between God and the world. This vision of a non-dogmatic and non-legalistic vegetarianism linked to traditional biblical principles rather than the pantheism of the New Age movement or the abdication of human uniqueness entailed in animal rights legislation has been controversial in both theological and philosophical circles. For an example of his work, see his essays, \"Theology from the Pet Side Up: A Christian Agenda for NOT Saving the World\" and \"Against the Gourmands: In Praise of Fast Food as a Form of Fasting,\" both published in the online journal \"The Other Journal\".\n\nWebb's critique of what he calls the \"animal eliminationist\" wing of the animal rights movement was presented at the 2008 American Academy of Religion conference in Chicago.\n\nSeveral books have extensively analyzed and criticized his position, including Laura Hobgood-Oster, \"Holy Dogs and Asses\" (University of Illinois Press, 2008) and Stephen M. Vantassel, \"Dominion over Wildlife?\" (Resource Publications, 2009). \"The Encyclopedia of Christianity\", ed. John Bowden (Oxford University Press, 2005) lists him as one of the leaders of the animal theology movement (p. 52).\n\nLater in his career, Webb turned his attention to politics, culture, popular culture, and liberal advocacy. Within this field, Webb generated positive and negative reviews with his book \"American Providence\" (Continuum, 2004) in which he defended the idea that the doctrine of providence has been a crucial ingredient in American history and American identity. Providential interpretations of American national aspirations went into decline after the Vietnam War, but with President Bush's openness regarding the role of faith in his presidency, providence has returned to the public square. Webb argued that even anti-Americanism is dependent upon providential logic, because conspiracy theories about how evil America is grant America a special role in world history. He also argued that the future belongs to the triad of capitalism, democracy, and various forms of evangelical Christianity, not limited to explicitly evangelical churches. One of his controversial essays on politics is “On the True Globalism and the False, or Why Christians Should Not Worry So Much about American Imperialism,” in \"Anxious About Empire: Theological Essays on the New Global Realities\", ed. Wes Avram (Grand Rapids: Brazos Press, 2004), pp. 119–128. William T. Cavanaugh has criticized Webb's connection of providence and politics.\n\nWebb is also known for his work in what he called theo-acoustics, or a theology of sound. He wrote a comprehensive history of Christianity and sound in \"The Divine Voice: Christian Proclamation and the Theology of Sound\" (Brazos Press, 2004). This book, which was named the Religious Communication Association's Book of the Year for 2005 and a Christianity Today Top Ten Book of 2004, is divided into three parts. The first part surveys the biblical tradition on the importance of the human voice as a medium of revelation in the Bible. The second part focuses on the Protestant Reformation as the revival of that tradition. The third part discusses the transformations of that tradition in contemporary culture, which is increasingly oriented toward the visual over the auditory. He also discusses the role of deafness in Christian history and various theological debates over the question of how God created the world through sound. In this discussion he reveals his battle with hearing loss and how that has affected his theological work. He ends that book talking about wordless music and the decline of authentic vocalization in rock and roll, so it was a natural progression to turn to Bob Dylan in his next book, \"Dylan Redeemed: From Highway 61 to Saved\" (Continuum, 2006). This book, which has been written about in many Dylan blogs, is a reassessment of Bob Dylan's musical career that focuses on Dylan's mid-life conversion to Christianity.\n\nWebb wrote about C. S. Lewis in \"The Chronicles of Narnia and Philosophy\" (ed. by Jerry Walls, Open Court Publishing, 2005), Indiana small town basketball in \"Basketball and Philosophy\" (University of Kentucky Press, 2007), and eschatology and politics in \"The Oxford Handbook of Eschatology\" (Oxford University Press, 2008). He also wrote the commendation for John Updike for the Presentation of the Christianity and Literature Lifetime Achievement Award at the Modern Languages Association Meeting in December, 2006. His remarks, and Updike's generous response, appear in \"Christianity and Literature\", vol. 56, No. 3 (Spring 2007), pp. 481–485, and Updike's response was subsequently published as the last essay in Updike's \"Higher Gossip\" (Knopf, 2011), pp. 479–481. Webb was also a frequent blogger and contributor to \"First Things\" and \"Books & Culture\".\n\nHe delivered invited lectures at Aberdeen University, Calvin College, Wheaton College, Bangor Seminary, Maine, Virginia Theological Seminary, Arizona State University, Pepperdine University, Butler University, Brigham Young University, Hartford Seminary, Creighton University, Wilfrid Laurier University, Hope College, Kalamazoo College, Purdue University, Elmhurst College, and Loyola University in Baltimore. He gave the Truman Madsen Lecture at Brigham Young University in 2012, the first Inaugural \"Animals and the Kingdom\" lecture at Calvin College in 2008, the Kretzmann Lecture at Valparaiso University in 2008, and the Womack Lecture at Methodist University in 2014.\n\nHe also wrote many essays on the intersection of rhetoric and religion, including \"Reviving the Rhetorical Heritage of Protestant Theology,\" in \"A Companion to Rhetoric and Rhetorical Criticism\", ed. Walter Jost and Wendy Olmsted (Oxford: Blackwell Publishing, 2004): 409-24, and \"Theological Reflections on the Hyperbolic Imagination,\" in \"Rhetorical Invention and Religious Inquiry\", ed. Walter Jost and Wendy Olmstead (New Haven: Yale University Press, 2000). \"The SAGE Handbook of Rhetorical Studies\", ed. Andrea Lunsford (2008) lists him as a leader in the field of religious rhetoric (see p. 555).\n\nWebb wrote a book critical of Darwinism, \"The Dome of Eden: A New Solution to the Problem of Creation and Evolution\" (Cascades, 2010). His book \"Jesus Christ, Eternal God: Heavenly Flesh and the Metaphysics of Matter\" (Oxford University Press, 2012), engages with Mormon theology in order to develop a revisionist account of Chalcedonian christology that seeks to redeem and appropriate monophysitism for modern theology. His essay in defense of Mormonism as a legitimate form of Christianity, \"Mormonism Obsessed with Christ,\" appeared in \"First Things\" (Feb. 2012) and was the topic of much discussion, including an opinion piece published in the \"Salt Lake Tribune\" co-authored by Mormon philosopher David L. Paulsen.\n\nStephen Webb lived in Brownsburg, Indiana with his wife, Diane Timmerman, who is a Professor of Theatre at Butler University, and their five children. He died by suicide on March 5, 2016 as the culmination of a long struggle with depression.\n\n\nFor an article on Intelligent Design that received numerous critical posts, see\nFor an essay about dogs that was commissioned by the National Humane Society, see\nFor two articles about liberal arts education by Webb from LiberalArtsOnline, see\nFor a review of \"American Providence\" in the journal First Things, see\nFor an article about Dylan, see\nFor a review of \"Dylan Redeemed\", see\nFor an interview of Webb on Dylan in the UK's The Guardian, see\nFor the Mormon community's interest in Prof. Webb's reflections on Mormonism, see from the Mormon Times\n"}
{"id": "2263205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263205", "title": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (K)", "text": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (K)\n"}
{"id": "2263212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263212", "title": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (L)", "text": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (L)\n"}
{"id": "2263214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263214", "title": "Continental Drifters", "text": "Continental Drifters\n\nThe Continental Drifters were an American rock band, formed in Los Angeles, California in 1991 and dissolved in New Orleans, Louisiana about a decade later. Though the line-up changed several times, at one point the band comprised a kind of college rock/indie-rock/power pop supergroup, including as it did Peter Holsapple of The dB's, Mark Walton of The Dream Syndicate, Bangle Vicki Peterson and Susan Cowsill of The Cowsills.\n\nThe band was formed in Los Angeles in 1991, initially consisting of Carlo Nuccio (drums, vocals), Ray Ganucheau (guitars, banjo, vocals), Mark Walton (bass), Gary Eaton (guitars, vocals) and Danny McGough (keyboards). The group gigged regularly at Raji's in LA, and were often joined by Susan Cowsill and Vicki Peterson on backing vocals and guitars, and Peter Holsapple (keyboards, guitars), though these three players were not yet official members.\n\nHolsapple was asked to join the band, but initially declined, offering instead to produce the group's debut album. The resulting disc was not released at the time; after it was completed, Holsapple, Cowsill and Peterson all joined the band officially, while McGough dropped out.\n\nLed by New Orleans natives Nuccio and Ganucheau, most of the band moved to New Orleans over a span of several months during 1993/94. Eaton was the only member who didn't make the move, and who consequently left the band. However, shortly after the move Ganucheau developed health problems, and was forced to drop out, being replaced by Robert Maché. This line up (Nuccio/Walton/Cowsill/Peterson/Holsapple/Maché) recorded the band's first issued album, \"Continental Drifters\", in 1994.\n\nNuccio left the band after the tour for the first album. He was replaced by new drummer Russ Broussard, and this line up issued two albums: \"Vermilion\" (1998) and \"Better Day\" (2001).\n\nSusan Cowsill and Russ Broussard left the group in early 2002. The remaining players drafted drummer John Maloney and the returning Ray Ganucheau to continue for several gigs, but at this point the group essentially wound down as a continuing concern.\n\nIn 2003, the band's unissued debut album was finally released, and a Continental Drifters line-up of Gary Eaton, Ray Ganucheau, Carlo Nuccio, Peter Holsapple, and Mark Walton played a gig to celebrate.\n\nOn April 28, 2009, the group reunited for the fifth annual Threadhead Patry in New Orleans, LA during Jazz Fest daze between, followed by a show on May 1 at Carrollton Station, playing to a sold-out crowd.\n\nIn 2015, Omnivore Recordings issued a double album retrospective focused on unreleased and live tracks from the band's long history. In September 2015, the band, including all members from both the Los Angeles era and the later New Orleans manifestations, came together for fundraising concerts in New Orleans and Los Angeles.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263215", "title": "Carl Gustaf Pilo", "text": "Carl Gustaf Pilo\n\nCarl Gustaf Pilo (5 March 1711 – 2 March 1793) was a Swedish-born artist and painter. Pilo worked extensively in Denmark as a painter to the Danish Royal Court and as professor and director at the Royal Danish Academy of Art (), as well as in his native Sweden. \n\nHis prolific output in Denmark consisted mainly of portraits of royalty and the nobility, but included also genre paintings in the Dutch style. For over two decades, he was acknowledged as the foremost portrait painter in Denmark. In addition to Peder Als, other students of his were Per Krafft and Lorens Pasch. Pilo is most famous for his masterly painting, \"The Coronation of Gustaf III\" commissioned by King Gustav III of Sweden.\n\nHe was born on the farm Göksäter in Runtuna Parish near Nyköping, Södermanland, Sweden to painter Olof (Oluff) Pilo (Pijhlou) and Beata Jönsdotter Sahlstedt. Early information about his career contains many inconsistencies, due to disagreement between two sources contemporary with his life. He probably received his early training from his father, who had earned his living as a young man as a decorative painter at Drottningholm and Stockholm Palace, although other indications say that he was trained by a painter named Crisman in Stockholm. Training for Pilo would have begun in Stockholm as early as 1723.\n\nPilo’s career began as a craft painter. He became an apprentice in 1731. According to Anton Friedrich Büsching (1754) Pilo traveled through Germany to Vienna 1734-36; this however is contradicted by Thure Wennberg (1794) who insists that Pilo never traveled out of Scandinavia but instead was a student at the newly established Swedish Drawing Academy in 1735. He probably worked as a craft painter between 1733 and 1738.\n\nHe lived 1738-1741 in Scania where he may have worked as a craft painter for two Scanian noble families; the Lewenhaupt family and the Baron Malte Ramel family. Pastoral drawings from this time indicate that he may have painted decorations at some estate. He was reputed to be a competent portraitist, and is reported to have painted a large family picture for the widow Countess Lewenhaupt. During these years in Skåne he also made portraits, although it is not evident from the quality of his work that he ever received professional instruction at this point in his career.\n\nIn early 1741, Pilo left Skåne, and moved to Copenhagen, Denmark. He brought with him to Denmark a letter of introduction from Charlotte Amélie Dorothée Desmarez, governess at the Ramel residence and his future wife, to her brother-in-law C.G. Almer, language teacher at the National Cadet Academy (\"Landkadetakademiet\") in Copenhagen. He started working as drawing teacher at the Academy on 4 April 1741, teaching the sons of Danish nobility, the royal pages and cadets.\n\nHe continued his career as a portraitist in Denmark. He painted an enthusiastically received portrait of Crown Princess Louise of Great Britain, the wife of the future King Frederick V of Denmark, one of centenarian Christian Jacobsen Drakenberg in 1742 and another of Christian Lerche in 1743. He concentrated on developing his craft during the 1740s, and probably drew from model in 1744. His duties soon expanded at the Academy; when on 28 June 1745 he became supervisor of drawing instruction, and began making portraits for King Christian VI. In the years 1745-1747 he began to introduce rococo into his artwork, as seen in his portraits of Countess Louise Sophie of Danneskiold-Samsøe and Adam Gottlob Moltke.\n\nIn 1747 he was named painter to the royal court under the newly crowned King Frederik V, whose duties also included the supervision and restoration of paintings at the royal residences. After several years development he became fully employed by the court and paintings streamed out of his studio.\n\nIn 1748 Pilo was named professor at the Drawing and Painting Academy (\"Tegne- og Malerakademiet\"), predecessor to the Royal Danish Academy of Art (\"Det Kongelige Danske Kunstakademi\"), along with Marcus Tuscher and Johann Friedrich Gerhard. The Academy was then located in the Post Office (\"Postamts\") building behind the Stock Exchange, and was then managed and supervised by Nicolai Eigtved, architect and royal building master. In late summer 1748 the Academy moved to the floor above the Crown Prince's stables at Christiansborg Palace, where Eigtved had his offices, while the model school continued on \"Gammelstrand\", where Hieronimo Miani, former leader of the Academy, had started the studio. Eigtved, the first Dane to exercise some control in the Academy to this point, became the Academy's first Director in 1751.\n\nPilo painted a full figure portrait of the king, \"Frederik V in Coronation Outfit\" (\"\"Frederik V i kroningsdragt\"\") in 1751, which is now in the collection of the Danish National Gallery.\n\nThe Academy moved to Charlottenborg, and became dedicated as the Royal Danish Academy of Art on 30 March 1754, after inspiration from the French Académie française. Pilo gave the welcoming speech to King Frederick V, not Eigtved. Eigtved was removed from the Director's position a few days later, and the directorship went to a Frenchman, Jacques Francis Joseph Saly. Pilo became a member of the Academy that same year.\n\nDuring the early years of the Academy most of the artists and architects who served in leading positions, both managerial and educational, were not Danish. It would be some time before Danes took a leading role in the Academy. Eigtved died two months later on 7 June 1754.\n\nAround 1757 neoclassicism began to replace rococo as the popular style, and his works became more romantic and dramatic with focus on shadow and light effects, and with more attention paid to depicting the models. Another inspiration for his changing style was the possibility to study first-hand the works of Rembrandt and other great Dutch Masters from the 17th century, works that in these years were being collected by Moltke and the royal painting collection. Pilo was also inspired by French painter Louis Tocqué, who visited Denmark 1758-1759.\n\nPilo was drawing instructor for Crown Prince Christian VII in 1759. Around 1760 he made portraits of Adam Gottlob Moltke, his wife, and Anna Margrethe Juel which foreshadowed the arrival of Louis XVI style to Denmark.\n\nHe became a member of the Academy of Art in Augsburg 1759, and a member of the Academy of Art in St. Petersburg 1770. He exhibited at Charlottenborg in 1769.\n\nThe royal court set a high demand on Pilo’s productivity in the years 1748-1767, having purchased more than 50 portraits of King Frederik V.\n\nUnder the absolute monarchy of the times the Academy's fortunes were dependent on both the good will and the whims of the King and his emissaries. Pilo succeeded Jacques Saly in 1771 to the leadership of the Academy, and worked to get the Academy a protectorship under the Crown Prince Frederik VI, who was given an honorary title in 1772.\n\nDanish art was well served by the presence of foreign artists at the Academy until there was a reaction to foreigners in 1771-1772 after both the ouster of German Johann Friedrich Struensee from the Danish Royal Court, and Swedish King Gustav III's coup d'état which turned Danes against Sweden.\n\nOn 31 August 1772 Pilo received the newly established Cross of the Knight of the Order of Vasa by a Swedish emissary of Gustav III, which required Pilo to take an oath of allegiance to Sweden, the land of his birth. This was considered unacceptable for someone in service to the King of Denmark, and the ensuing royal intrigues cost him his position.\n\nOn 10 September he was ordered by Hereditary Prince Frederick to travel within two days to Schleswig to paint a life-size portrait of the King’s sister Louise, her husband Carl Count of Hesse-Kassel and their children.\n\nPilo rejected the assignment the same day, and asked to take his resignation, which was accepted on 17 September. Thus he lost his position, ending a career of over 30 years of service to the Danish crown.\n\nOn 21 September he received orders to leave the country within 3–4 weeks. Pilo felt that he was set up in court intrigues by Ove Høegh-Guldberg, a central figure in the court ruling Denmark at the time, Peder Als and Secretary of the Cabinet Andreas Schumacher. Als had been one of Pilo’s best students, and had traveled to Rome and Paris, bringing back a strongly Italian-inspired painting style that became the rage. Als' criticism of the foreign element within the Academy helped lead not only to the downfall of Pilo himself, but to the disappearance of the many French artists at the Academy in the years after 1770.\n\nPilo left Denmark on 10 or 11 October and arrived in Stockholm in November, after having visited the Ramel family in Skåne. He appeared before the Swedish court but received no immediate commissions.\nHe was made an honorary member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Fine Arts in 1773, and received the Royal Order of Vasa in 1784. He traveled about between Skåne and Stockholm during 1772-1775, until settling down in his childhood town of Nyköping in 1775. Gustav III looked him up, requesting him to paint the coronation. He wanted something to match Ehrenstrahl's picture, at Drottningholm, of Charles XI's coronation.\nPilo was named Director of the Swedish Academy in 1777, but first took office in 1780 when he also received an apartment in Stockholm as part of his directorship at the Academy. He lived out his days at the Academy, both engaged in the Academy’s business and in painting his masterpiece, the painting of Gustav III’s coronation in Stockholm Cathedral, which he worked on until the very end.\n\nHe became betrothed to Eva Maria Malmgren of Hofterup (between Malmö and Landskrona) in 1738.\nThe engagement became legally annulled on 5 May 1747.\nPilo married Charlotte Amélie Dorothée Desmarez (Desmars) on 5 January 1750 at Maltesholm Castle.\nHe died in Stockholm on 2 March 1793, and was buried at Klara Church.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263217", "title": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (M)", "text": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (M)\n"}
{"id": "2263220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263220", "title": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (N)", "text": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (N)\n"}
{"id": "2263224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263224", "title": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (O)", "text": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (O)\n"}
{"id": "2263226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263226", "title": "Sopranino saxophone", "text": "Sopranino saxophone\n\nThe sopranino saxophone is one of the smallest members of the saxophone family. It is tuned in the key of E, and sounds an octave higher than the alto saxophone. The sopranino saxophone has a sweet sound and although it is one of the least common of the saxophones in regular use today, it is still being produced by several of the major musical manufacturing companies. Due to their small size, sopraninos are not usually curved like other saxophones. Orsi, however, does make curved sopranino saxophones.\n\nThe original patented saxophone family, as developed by Adolphe Sax, included sopranino, soprano, alto, tenor, baritone, bass, contrabass, and subcontrabass instruments (although he never built the last). Since the late 20th century, however, a B piccolo, or sopranissimo saxophone (called soprillo, and tuned a fifth above the sopranino) and a B subcontrabass instrument (called tubax, also made in C) have been developed by the German instrument maker Benedikt Eppelsheim. \n\nThe most notable use of the sopranino is in the orchestral work \"Boléro\" by Maurice Ravel. Although Ravel called for a soprano saxophone in F, this member of the \"concert\" family of saxophones never gained popularity and is no longer in existence. In recent years, rock band Violent Femmes have incorporated sopranino saxophone into the band's live performances as well as their newest albums. Saxophonist Blaise Garza plays a curved sopranino saxophone in the song \"I'm Not Gonna Cry\" off of the 2019 album \"Hotel Last Resort.\" Outside of classical and rock music, notable jazz and improvising musicians using this instrument include Carla Marciano, James Carter, Anthony Braxton, La Monte Young, Roscoe Mitchell, Joseph Jarman, Paul McCandless, Lol Coxhill, Roger Frampton, Hans Koller, Wolfgang Fuchs, Douglas Ewart, Larry Ochs, Vinny Golia, Thomas Chapin, Martin Archer, Jon Irabagon, Massimo Falascone, Gianni Gebbia, Garth Hudson (seen playing one in the film \"The Last Waltz\") and Ian Anderson (credited with having played the instrument on the Jethro Tull albums \"A Passion Play\" and \"War Child\"). The sopranino saxophone is also used in the six-member Nuclear Whales Saxophone Orchestra, currently played by Kelley Hart Jenkins.\n\nBeing the highest-pitched representative of the original saxophone family, the sopranino sax is notable for its expressive sound.\n"}
{"id": "2263229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263229", "title": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (P)", "text": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (P)\n"}
{"id": "2263230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263230", "title": "Ondangwa", "text": "Ondangwa\n\nOndangwa (earlier spelling \"Ondangua\") is a town of 23,000 inhabitants in the Oshana Region of northern Namibia, bordering Oshikoto Region. Ondangwa was first established as a mission station of the Finnish Missionary Society (the FMS) in 1890. In 1914 it became a local seat of government.\n\nOndangwa is said to mean \"the end of the Ondonga area\". (Ondonga is one of the kingdoms of Ovamboland), and Ondangwa is located on the western edge of this kingdom.\n\nOndangwa is located about from the Angolan border, along the B1. It is one of the places of residence of the Kings of Ondonga; the current King Eliphas Kauluma, father to the reigning king, lives here. Most of the residents of the town speak Oshindonga.\n\nOndangwa is the district capital of the Ondangwa electoral constituency.\n\nThe Ondangwa mission station was founded by August Pettinen in 1890. It was located northwest of the Olukonda mission station. At that time it was said that the distance was equal to two hours of travel on an ox cart.\n\nBefore Ondangwa was founded the Finns had experienced a string of setbacks in the territories of other Ovambo tribes, i.e. in the kingdoms of Uukwambi, Ongadjera in the west and Oukwanyama in the north, and circumstances dictated that their work had to be concentrated in Ondonga. Even in Ondonga, the Finns could only work in the west, because in eastern Ondonga, Prince Nehale had been acting in an erratic and despotic way and thus made it impossible for foreigners to work or even survive there.\n\nIn August 1889 the Finns received news that Nehale was planning to kill them and to plunder the mission stations in his realm. The reason for this was that Nehale thought, incorrectly, that the Finns would have lots of ammunition that he could lay his hands on. Pettinen had brought with him a couple of Christian families, and some of his servants were also Christians, so a small congregation existed in Ondangwa right from the beginning.\n\nIn 1898 the FMS sent Hilja Lindberg and Anna Rautanen, daughter of Martti Rautanen, to Ovamboland and Ondangwa. They were the first unmarried female missionaries in Ovamboland. Both had been given a chance to practice healthcare work at the Helsinki Deaconess Institute, as the plan was that they would be engaged in this line of work in Ovamboland. Lindberg was also going to teach Ovambo women how to spin and weave cotton.\n\nHowever, the cultivation and processing of cotton turned out to require too much labour and water, and the results were not in a reasonable proportion compared with the amount of work required. Furthermore, the Ovambos were used to getting material from the Finns and were not motivated to produce their own material. This experiment thus had to be abandoned.\n\nIn 1900 the director of the FMS, Jooseppi Mustakallio, came to Ovamboland to inspect the mission field. One of the sites inspected was Ondangwa. He was in general happy with what he saw there.\n\nWhen August Hänninen arrived in Ovamboland in 1904, Ondangwa became for a short time the most important place of health care there. Hänninen was not trained for medicare work, but as a conscript in the army he had worked as a surgeon’s assistant, or some kind of a paramedic, and he was eager to continue in this line of work in Ovamboland. Indeed, he soon became known as a famous healer. August Pettinen reported that in 1905, when many kinds of epidemics ravaged Ovamboland, some 7,000 visits by patients had been made in Ondangwa. Even the following year there were 3,700 visits by patients. It appears that sometime after this Hänninen moved to Oniipa, where he used 4–5 hours daily for taking care of patients.\n\nIn February 1906, there was an armed conflict in the immediate vicinity of the Ondangwa mission station. The battle was connected to an attempted coup on Ondonga. The nephews of King Kambonde, Albin and Martin had been baptised and were next in line for the throne. Their aunt, Kambonde’s sister Amutaleni incited them to kill the king. Even before this, the brothers had started to sort out things in Kambonde’s realm, without the consent of Kambonde. When Albin decided that he would not continue to act against the king, his brother Martin assassinated him. This led into an armed conflict between the supporters of these two brothers. Circa 40 Ondonga men were killed in this conflict, and as a result of the affair, two other brothers, also in line for the throne, had to go into exile.\n\nIt seems that most people in Ondangwa lost their fortunes in this conflict, since in 1908 it was reported that the people in Ondangwa could not support their parish in any way whatsoever.\n\nIn early 1914 the Finns had abandoned the Ondangwa mission station. When the British took over South West Africa during World War I, they also came to Ovamboland and in 1915 chose Ondangwa as the location of their administration. On Christmas Day that year they hoisted the Union Jack in Ondangwa for the first time. The commander of the English was Major C. N. Manning, whose title was the \"Resident Commissioner\".\n\nIn October 1915 Lieutenant C. H. L. Hahn arrived in Ovamboland. He was the grandson of Carl Hugo Hahn, raised by the son of the latter, Pastor Carl Hugo Hahn Jr., in Paarl, Cape Province. He worked in Ovamboland as the highest administrator for 30 years and had a great influence on the relations between the Finnish missionaries and the colonial administration.\n\nThe official status of the government station in Ondangwa was not sorted out until several years later, when in 1921 the government finally bought it from the Finns.\n\nIn 1945, towards the end of World War II, the South African government sent an \"Organizer of Native Education\" to Northern Namibia, to oversee school work in Ovamboland and Kavango. The first such organizer was D. R. Rootman, who was based in Ondangwa. Later this moved to Grootfontein, and the organizer visited Ovamboland once a year.\n\nDue to its strategic airport, Ondangwa became an important staging area for the South African Defence Force during its campaigns in neighbouring Angola. Local road and rail links were also improved by authorities to facilitate the rapid movement of military vehicles. While prior to 1970 the highway was unpaved beyond Otjiwarongo, by the end of the decade the tarmac extended through Ondangwa to Oshakati.\n\nAs the Namibian War of Independence intensified, Ondangwa became a target for the South West African People's Organization until South Africa's withdrawal from the region in 1990.\n\nOndangwa has a semi-arid climate (\"BSh\", according to the Köppen climate classification), with hot summers and warm winters (with mild days and cool nights). The average annual precipitation is , with rainfall occurring mainly during summer. In the unusual rainy season of 2010/2011 rainfall was over , while in 2018/19 during the 2010s drought only of rain fell.\n\nOndangwa is governed by a Town Council that has seven seats. Current challenges faced include the growing demand for housing due to rapid urbanisation, as well unemployment. TIPEEG, a government project to create jobs, is intended to assist in curbing unemployment in the town. The council has produced a development plan with guiding documents in the hope of facilitating investment. In order to combat the shortage of housing, the council has entered into a private-public partnership with Namibou, for the intended construction of roughly a thousand houses. It has also declared the aim of making the local government \"an engine for sustainable development\" in the region, and joined ICLEI in 2013.\n\nOshana Region, to which Ondangwa belongs, is a stronghold of Namibia's ruling SWAPO party. In the 2015 local authority election SWAPO won by a landslide (2,582 votes) and gained six council seats. The remaining seat went to the Democratic Turnhalle Alliance (DTA) which gained 158 votes.\n\nOndangwa features a shopping centre, a large open market, and several tourism facilities. There are also shopping centres such as Gwashamba mall, Yetu complex, Ondangwa Industrial Park, Time Square Mall, Sun Square mall, Andimba Toivo yaToivo Complex, Three Sisters Mall and others. Many local authorities for the Oshana and Oshikoto regions are seated in the town, e.g. the Ministry of Education and Police. The hospital is situated in the nearby town Onandjokwe.\n\nOndangwa remains an important transit point for Owambo contract workers going to or coming from the copper- and lead-mining town of Tsumeb, southeast.\n\nThere are several schools in the town, among them Andimba Toivo ya Toivo Senior Secondary School. Some schools extend far from the town - for instance Ekulo Senior Secondary School.In terms of education, there are many schools in Ondangwa such as Heroes Private School, Nangolo Secondary School, Iihenda Secondary School and Ondangwa Secondary School. There are also primary schools such as Olukolo Primary School and Ondangwa Prof-Private School and many other. Apart from schools that offer full time classes, there are also schools which offer part time classes to learners who want to improve their grade 10 and 12 results. These are schools such as Elite and NAMCOL. NAMCOL centre also offers other programmes such as ICDL which trains students on how to use computers and other ICT skills. The most well-known football team is KK Palace and Volcano.\n\nSince independence, the government has settled up an industry in the north, to create jobs and improve the poor infrastructure. Rössing Foundation, Kayec and Cosdec are the three vocational skills schools training young people in building maintenance, sewing, cooking, and Internet Technology.\n\nSafland Namibia is developing a multimillion-dollar shopping mall in Ondangwa.\n\nIn 2001, planning started on a railway line to link Tsumeb with Ondangwa, with extensions to Angola planned to follow. The rail line had its first official service on 11 May 2006. The passenger train \"Omugulugwombashe Star\" traveled once a week back and forth between Windhoek and Ondangwa before it broke down due to climatic conditions.\n\nOndangwa Airport is linked to Oshakati and Oshikango by a tarred road. Rental car services are available to tourists. There is Ekamuti Lodge, Ondangwa Town Lodge, Protea Hotel, Oshoto Pension Hotel, Anot Guest House, Ondangwa Restcamp and many others. All these places can give accommodation in Ondangwa Residents and car drivers are extra cautious when crossing and driving in town, because livestock permission in town is not strictly regulated by the authorities. As a result, cattle and many goats roam around streets, especially at night.\n\nOndangwa is situated amidst the dramatic scenery of the Kaoko and Damara regions, in the vicinity of Etosha National Park. The relatively pristine state of much of the local culture in the surrounding areas is balanced by the bustling markets and vibrant urban life of the town centre. For visitors, Ondangwa town has a variety of accommodation options, from camp sites to a range of hotels. Informal markets stocking everything from traditional clothes to local delicacies such as dried caterpillars and meat dishes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263232", "title": "Joyce Jimenez", "text": "Joyce Jimenez\n\nJoyce Herrín Reintegrado-Egbalic, popularly known by her screen name Joyce Jimenez (born March 21, 1978) is an American actress who stars in movies in the Philippines.\n\nIn the early 2000s, Joyce Jimenez was titled \"Fantasya ng Bayan\" after doing sexy films that did well at the box office under VIVA Films she worked with serious actors such as Richard Gomez, Albert Martinez and Jomari Yllana, later on in romantic comedies with Piolo Pascual and Diether Ocampo under Regal Films. In 2003, she was cast in \"Pinay Pie\" with Ai-Ai delas Alas and Assunta De Rossi under Star Cinema on her second film with Jose Javier Reyes after her pairing with Aga Muhlach in \"Narinig Mo Na Ba ang L8est?\".\n\nAfter her retirement in film and her regular television work for GMA Network at the time, she decided to go back to Los Angeles after marrying and started a family. Her Ever Bilena brand Private Joyce disbanded in 2006.\n\nJoyce Jimenez was born in Los Angeles, California to Filipino migrant parents. Her full name is Joyce Herrín Reintegrado-Egbalic. Jimenez grew up in the Los Ángeles area where she studied at Bishop Amat High School in La Puente, California. She was accepted at UCLA but decided to forgo schooling to move to the Philippines; most recently she had a college degree from a university in Australia.\n\nIn 1996, Jimenez participated in the Miss Taguig - Hollywood pageant. Although she did not win the title, she did win the \"Miss Photogenic\" title.\n\nJimenez started to venture out from films and into business. She owns \"Skin-Private Joyce\", which specializes in bath and beauty products. She also opened a lingerie line \"Private Joyce Intimate Collection\" partnership with Ever Bilena Cosmetics Inc. Jimenez married Filipino-American Paul Ely Egbalic from Vallejo, CA on August 23, 2008, at Walnut, California and on October 16, 2009, Joyce & Paul welcomed their first baby girl named \"Jorja\".\n\nOn September 29, 2008, Jimenez suffered serious injuries in a car accident in Urdaneta City, Pangasinan (coming from a Baguio City taping for ABC TV5's \"Philippines Scariest Challenge\"). Avoiding a truck, her Toyota 4Runner flipped four times and was totally wrecked when it rolled over in a rice field. She was treated at the Urdaneta City Sacred Heart Hospital and transferred to Medical City, Pasig City. Her legs were badly injured, she had minor bruises, had to wear a brace on her neck, and had minor stitches on her face.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263233", "title": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (Q)", "text": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (Q)\n"}
{"id": "2263235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263235", "title": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (R)", "text": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (R)\n"}
{"id": "2263237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263237", "title": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (S)", "text": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (S)\n"}
{"id": "2263238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263238", "title": "American Cadet Alliance", "text": "American Cadet Alliance\n\nThe American Cadet Alliance (ACA), formerly the United States Army Cadet Corps (USAC) was founded under the name \"Colonel Cody's Boy Scouts\" by Captain James H. C. Smyth at the First Presbyterian Church, Manhattan, New York. The ACA holds the distinction of being the oldest nationwide Cadet program in the United States. It is the National Cadet Program branch of the American Military Cadet Corps (AMCC), its parent organization. ACA and American Military Cadet Corps is an Independent National Cadet Program (similar to the Young Marines) and therefore is not a governmental agency, and is not an official entity of the United States Army.\n\nThe ACA (former USAC) is a 501(c)(3) non-profit youth education organizations.\n\nThe American Cadet Alliance was founded as Colonel Cody's Boy Scouts by Captain James H. C. Smyth on 10 April 1909, at the First Presbyterian Church in Manhattan, New York. Shortly thereafter, the group was reorganized as the American Naval and Marine Scouts. The American Naval and Marine Scouts continued to evolve, and on 16 August 1927 the organization was incorporated under the laws of the State of New York as the New York Junior Naval Militia, Inc. In early 1929, the organization split and its founder, as well as a number of senior officers, incorporated the Junior Naval Reserve, Inc., on 19 February 1929.\n\nEarly in 1938, during the heightening of World War II, the War Department instructed the Secretaries of State to require all organizations using the words \"naval\", \"militia\" and \"reserve\" as a part of their corporate name to rename their organizations so as not to cause public confusion regarding their relationship to the armed services. To comply with this request, the Junior Naval Reserve, Inc. reincorporated on 14 June 1938 as the American Nautical Cadets, Inc., and on 2 November 1938, the New York Junior Naval Militia, Inc. changed its name to the Maritime Brigade, Inc.\n\nAs a result of reorganization, due in part to a number of mergers with other, smaller Cadet organizations, the American Nautical Cadets, Inc. reincorporated on 3 October 1956 as the American Nautical Alliance, Inc. The organization came full circle on 15 September 1960 when the American Nautical Alliance, Inc. and the Maritime Brigade, Inc. merged to become the American Cadet Alliance, Inc.\n\nThe USAC (United States Army Cadet Corps) was created in 2000 and was the fastest growing brigade in the ACA, in comparison with the Naval Cadets and Marine Cadets.\n\nThen in 2007, the decision to phase out all of the brigades except for the Army was made. This decision was made due to the high interest in the Army brigade and lack of interest in the Marine and Naval brigade. Along with the support from the US Army Reserve and Army National Guard, in April 2009 this transition was completed. Starting in 2011 USAC decided to open a military school named Forest Hill Military Academy at its headquarters the former site of Millerburg Military Institute. This decision was not universally supported by the volunteer cadre of USAC and led to the eventual departure of many experienced adult leaders. All funding brought in by USAC, including that of its widely popular summer camp \"Military Adventure Camp\", went into operating the school, which eventually failed. The opening of the school led to the dismissal of the commandant Charles Tornow and his staff. The final commander for USAC was Jay Whitehead, a former politician who did not have a military background. When he took control of USAC, the majority of the cadre with any experience left. In 2015 there was an influx of fresh staff members who spearheaded the re-branding/re-organization of the ACA, and the decision to bring back Marine Cadetting and Naval Cadets was made in keeping with the spirit of the original intent of the founders of the program. Unfortunately this initiative failed and under the management of Jay Whitehead the organization attempted bankruptcy, but was dismissed from bankruptcy court due to failure to cooperate. Creditors of USAC were never paid. Whitehead resigned his position with USAC without alerting the receiver appointed by the AG's office of the Commonwealth of Kentucky. He established a new non-profit Military Adventure Camp, Inc to run summer camps under the branding established by USAC. No assets or equipment owned by USAC were sold to pay creditors, leading many to question where Whitehead sourced the equipment needed to operate his new summer camp.\n\nThe Millersburg headquarters of USAC was foreclosed on in 2016.\n\nFormer Commandants of the American Cadet Alliance Include:\n\nAs of mid–2006 the ACA's organizational model is largely nominal and has been established to accommodate an expected upswing in membership and unit activations.\n\nA unit is given a name reflecting its locality, as well as a unit designation indicating the company, battalion and district. For instance, the designation of the Military Cadets of Selfridge (Michigan) is B Co., 5/1 or Bravo Company, Fifth Battalion, 1st CTR.\n\nMost units drill on military installations, military reserve centers or National Guard armories and most receive a great deal of cooperation and support from their host units. Drills are generally on the Guard/Reserve model, with one weekend drill per month.\n\nCadets are members between the ages of 12 and 20 (although 11-year-olds can be accepted after 5th grade). They must be enrolled in school and receiving passing grades, be drug and crime free, and be of weight proportional to his/her height. The applicant can not be overly obese. The prospective Cadet should be able to do basic exercises like push-ups and sit-ups, and be able to run. The applicant must be able to pass a \"sports-type\" physical exam by a doctor and can not have any communicable diseases, chronic health problems or severe allergies. Once a Cadet turns 18, they can choose to stay in the program as a cadet or become a junior cadre member. If they stay as a cadet, they can stay in the program only until they turn 21.\n\nOne of the features of the Cadet application process for the ACA is that the Cadet must volunteer and sign for himself or herself. The parents still must sign the appropriate permission forms, but overall the Cadet applicant cannot be forced to sign up. The ACA is not a delinquency program and the organization has strict policies regarding this issue.\n\nThe Cadet rank system in the ACA is the same as in the U.S. military enlisted system. Just like the US Naval Sea Cadets, the Young Marines, the Royal Canadian Cadets, and the British Cadet Programs, Cadet ranks only encompass enlisted ranks and no officer ranks. Cadets enter at grade Cadet C-1 and work their way up to Cadet Sergeant Major (Army/ Marine Military Cadets) or Cadet Master Chief (Navy Military Cadets) C-9. However, cadets who continue in the program when they enter college can become an Officer Cadet until they turn 21, at which time they become an Officer Candidate. The title of each grade is based on the branch they are enrolled in, but all ACA Cadets begin their time in the program as \"recruits\". The new ACA Cadets remain recruits until their first summer camp, where they are given the chance to earn the title \"Cadet\". They can promote to C-2 before that first summer camp, but that promotion is provisional. Once at summer camp, a provisional E-2 will remove his rank and again become a C-1 recruit. Only after graduating from their first summer camp can a Cadet be actually called \"Cadet\" and be permanently promoted above the rank of C-1. They also hold company positions such as company first sergeant, platoon sergeant, or squad leader. The most senior ranking cadet is a Command Cadet, who serves as the Senior Cadet Advisor to the National Staff with the rank of Cadet Command Sergeant Major (Army Military Cadets), Cadet Sergeant Major (Marine Military Cadets) or Cadet Command Master Chief (Navy Military Cadets).\n\nMembership in the ACA Officers' Corps is a privilege reserved for those individuals who desire to promote the objectives and purposes of the ACA and who meet the eligibility requirements. Leadership and command of the ACA, at all levels, is provided by a dedicated corps of non-paid professional officers, adult noncommissioned officers (NCO) and instructors. Each Officers' Corps applicant must complete a series of prerequisites and a thorough screening process prior to receiving a commission or appointment as an officer or NCO in the American Military Cadet Corps.\n\nThere are several categories for the Officer Corps, which are outlined below.\n\nAppointment as an instructor may be granted to individuals who wish to participate in ACA activities in a non-military capacity. Instructors do not wear a military uniform but are required to dress in appropriate ACA attire. This category of membership is extremely flexible and its requirements are not as high as a uniformed staff member, but a high level of professionalism and moral integrity is always required.\n\nAn appointment as an Adult Non-Commissioned Officer (NCO) is open to those individuals who have served honorably in the U.S. military in grades E-4 through E-9 who prefer to maintain their status as non-commissioned officers rather than to apply for a commission in the ACA Officers' Corps. Those individuals choosing to remain as Non-Commissioned Officers will be appointed to a grade comparable to the highest enlisted grade held while in the military. Adult NCOs are assigned a position within the unit, comparable with their rank and billet while on active duty or in the reserves. Adult NCOs are always needed in a training capacity to work directly with the Cadets.\n\nA commission as a Warrant Officer is open to those individuals who are specialists in a field of endeavor and who desire to instruct in technical skills, or perform a single function within the unit, causing them to be best suited to apply for commissioning as a Warrant Officer in the ACA Officer's Corps.\n\nA commission as an ACA Officer is open to those individuals who have the desire, self-discipline, self-confidence, critical judgment, and moral integrity to put on the uniform. The American Cadet Alliance Officer Corps take this uniform seriously and expect any prospective commissioned officer to as well. ACA Officers are held to a higher standard.\n\nIndividual Training Company (ITC) Cadets are Cadet members of the organization who are not located near a drilling unit. These Cadets and Officer Corps members function largely on their own throughout the year, often coordinating through their local military recruiter for assistance tasks and training. ITC members go to Annual Training in the summer with the rest of the ACA as a whole. The ITC is open to anyone who wishes to join the program (with parental consent and paperwork), and is then enrolled into the program as a member of ACA.\n\nIn March, 2013 a Pendleton County, Kentucky mother filed a lawsuit stating that her son and daughter had been sexually molested while attending Military Adventure Camp. The suit described two separate cases of abuse starting in 2010 - sexual advances by a camp instructor against her son, and misconduct against her daughter by a fellow cadet. Filed on 5 March 2013, the suit alleged negligence, intentional infliction of emotional distress, negligent hiring and improper training and supervision by the corps. The employee, a non-instructor staff member, was fired from his position and investigated by law enforcement. The charges by the family were later dropped, some speculate due to the disbarring of their attorney.\n\nIn June 2013, Paris Fire Department Inspector Battalion Chief Mike Duffy ordered the U.S. Army Cadet Corps to evacuate about 70 teenage cadets and adult staffers from two buildings at Military Adventure Camp after an anonymous complaint. Electrical wiring problems and other issues were discovered by the investigator. Among the reported problems were \"bare walls down to the studs\", \"electrical wiring dangling from the ceiling\", and \"kids sleeping within inches of exposed electrical wiring sticking out of the wall\". Chief Duffy also cited other problems, including out of date, empty and missing fire extinguishers, inoperative fire alarm systems and missing or defective smoke and heat detectors.\n\nUSACC spokesman Brian Lehnhardt said the situation involved the Rankin and McIntyre buildings, both more than 80 years old. According to Lehnhardt cadets and adults had been living in the buildings temporarily during summer camp and the buildings were to be renovated. Despite the findings of the fire inspector's investigation, Lehnhardt stated that \"at no time were any of our cadets, recruits or staff in any danger\", and that the USAC leadership believed the building were up to code and safe.\n\nIn July 2013 the Army Cadet Corps announced plans to tear down the Rankin Building. Lehnhardt stated, \"There's just been one issue after another finding more problems with the building than we expected\". The adjoining McIntyre Building was to be renovated and brought up to modern fire codes. A press release from the time stated that \"After careful re-evaluation by the state and county building inspectors, it was deemed that the only way to save the adjoining McIntyre building would be to demolish Rankin\".\n\nFollowing the controversy from the incident that happened at Military Adventure Camp, the leaders of the USACC resigned their positions and a court appointed receiver was put in place. Jay Whitehead the business manager brought in to save the finances of USAC's military school took control despite having no military background himself. The United States Army Cadet Corps name was dropped, but Forest Hill Military Academy maintained itself and the cadet units and renamed itself the American Military Cadet Corps (AMCC). AMCC is not endorsed by the U.S. Army, and has no relationship with the Army. The AMCC leadership had experience in the military, leading cadets and youth, and was going in a much different direction, with the Academy returning with the original historical name, Millersburg Military Institute. In June 2015, it was announced that a merger would occur between the AMCC and another Cadet program. Additional information and details would be announced later, but the headquarters would remain at the National Cadet Training Center in Millersburg for the time being. The AMCC name would remain as the corporate name for the umbrella of the two programs under its command: the National Cadet Program which would be returning to its previous name of American Cadet Alliance, and the Millersburg Military Institute itself serving as the headquarters.\n\nUnfortunately this initiative failed. Under the management of Jay Whitehead, the organization attempted bankruptcy but was dismissed from bankruptcy court due to failure to cooperate. Creditors of USAC were never paid. Jay Whitehead resigned his position with USAC without alerting the receiver appointed by the AG's office of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, and established a new non-profit Military Adventure Camp, Inc. to run summer camps under the branding established by USAC. No assets or equipment owned by USAC were sold to pay creditors, leading many to question where Whitehead had sourced the equipment needed to operate his new camp.\n\nThe Millersburg headquarters of USAC was foreclosed on in 2016.\n\nSince the implosion of this once great, thriving and strong organization, other Officers of the Corps strived in new directions. As Mr. Whitehead, took his version of the program one way, several other Staff have brought their pieces of Knowledge and experience forward. Though Mr. Whitehead and some others claim that these splinter programs are not of true heritage. But looking at the Program Historically From COL Cody's Scouts, which was actually a splinter off of the Boy Scouts of America, Splinter programs are the ones who had upheld and cherished that exact heritage. Some went on to success in their programs others went to for Profit programming and others are still carrying the torch to revive Community Cadetting and offer a model that aligns their interests providing some core programming needs for each participating units with uniform rules on advancement, membership and youth protection guidelines. All of this while allowing Unit CDRs with enough Autonomy to feel they have direct control over their unit. The Board of Directors (BoD) should be elected by the membership and an agreement to operate under Roberts Rules of Order for any Regulation that would affect the Corps.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263241", "title": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (T)", "text": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (T)\n"}
{"id": "2263244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263244", "title": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (U)", "text": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (U)\n"}
{"id": "2263246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263246", "title": "Telluric acid", "text": "Telluric acid\n\nTelluric acid is a chemical compound with the formula Te(OH). It is a white solid made up of octahedral Te(OH) molecules which persist in aqueous solution. There are two forms, rhombohedral and monoclinic, and both contain octahedral Te(OH) molecules.\nTelluric acid is a weak acid which is dibasic, forming tellurate salts with strong bases and hydrogen tellurate salts with weaker bases or upon hydrolysis of tellurates in water.\n\nTelluric acid is formed by the oxidation of tellurium or tellurium dioxide with a powerful oxidising agent such as hydrogen peroxide, chromium trioxide or sodium peroxide.\nCrystallization of telluric acid solutions below 10 °C gives Te(OH).4HO.\nIt is oxidizing, as shown by the electrode potential for the reaction below, although it is kinetically slow in its oxidations.\nChlorine, by comparison, is +1.36V and selenous acid is +0.74V in oxidizing conditions.\n\nThe anhydrous acid is stable in air at 100 °C but above this it dehydrates to form polymetatelluric acid, a white hygroscopic powder (approximate composition (HTeO)), and allotelluric acid, an acid syrup of unknown structure (approximate composition (HTeO)(HO)).\nTypical salts of the acid contains the anions [Te(O)(OH)] and [Te(O)(OH)]. The presence of the tellurate ion TeO has been confirmed in the solid state structure of Rb[TeO][TeO].\nStrong heating at over 300 °C produces the α- crystalline modification of tellurium trioxide, α-TeO.\n\nTelluric acid and its salts mostly contain hexacoordinate tellurium. This is true even for salts such as magnesium tellurate, MgTeO, which is isostructural with magnesium molybdate and contains TeO octahedra.\n\nMetatelluric acid, HTeO, the tellurium analogue of sulfuric acid, HSO, is unknown. Allotelluric acid of approximate composition (HTeO)(HO), is not well characterised and may be a mixture of Te(OH) and (HTeO).\n\nTellurous acid (HTeO), containing tellurium in its +4 oxidation state, is known but not well characterised.\nHydrogen telluride is an unstable gas that forms hydrotelluric acid upon addition to water.\n"}
{"id": "2263247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263247", "title": "Iowa Highway 9", "text": "Iowa Highway 9\n\nIowa Highway 9 is the most northern of Iowa's east–west highways, traversing the entire northern tier of counties. It runs from the eastern terminus of South Dakota Highway 42 at the South Dakota border east of Sioux Falls, South Dakota near Benclare, to the Wisconsin border at Lansing where it continues as Wisconsin Highway 82. It is largely rural in character, bypassing any large city. Making a few dips north and south, the highway largely follows a very straight east–west alignment.\n\nIowa 9 enters Iowa from South Dakota as a continuation of South Dakota Highway 42. The highway's entry point is east of Iowa's northwestern corner. It heads south and east through Lyon County until it reaches Larchwood. There, it turns south for about a mile (1.5 km) where it meets the northern end of Iowa 182. From here, the highway runs due east for . During this straight stretch, it passes just to the south of Lester. Just west of Rock Rapids, it meets U.S. Highway 75 (US 75). The two routes overlap one another for as the travel through northern Rock Rapids. US 75 splits away to the south and Iowa 9 heads into downtown Rock Rapids, where it crosses the Rock River.\n\nEast of Rock Rapids, the highway follows a section line that is south of the Minnesota state line. Halfway between Rock Rapids and Little Rock, Iowa 9 intersects the northern and southern legs of County Road L14, which were previously Iowa 91 and Iowa 339, respectively. The highway passes Little Rock to the south and enters Osceola County. It continues east for until it reaches an interchange with Iowa 60 north of Sibley, that highway's final exit before entering Minnesota. Shortly thereafter, Iowa 9 meets US 59. The highway eases to the south as it follows the section line. It passes to the north of Ocheyedan and to the south of Rush Lake and Harris.\n\nAs Iowa 9 enters Dickinson County, it goes south of Silver Lake and Lake Park. It crosses the western and eastern branches of the Little Sioux River, which converge just south of the highway. The intersection with Iowa 86 marks Iowa 9's entry into the Iowa Great Lakes region. It becomes a four-lane divided highway for a short distance as it curves slightly to the south. In northwestern Spirit Lake, Iowa 9 is joined by US 71 from the south and they travel east through the downtown area. The highways turn sharply to the northeast in order to cross a narrow portion of East Okoboji Lake. They briefly follow the shore before turning back to the east and exiting Spirit Lake. east of town, US 71 turns to the north and Iowa 9 continues towards Superior. Iowa 9 enters Emmet County and curves to the southeast as it approaches Estherville. There, it crosses the West Fork Des Moines River and Iowa 4. It continues due east for . Just west of Armstrong, it dips to the south and enters the southern part of town. It is overlapped by Iowa 15 for two blocks, a mere .\n\nIn Kossuth County, it passes through Swea City. East of Swea City, it is joined by U.S. Route 169. It passes north of Lakota, where US 169 turns north. Travelling through Buffalo Center in Winnebago County, takes a slight southwesterly dip to pass northeast of Thompson, continues east, and then south to join U.S. Route 69 at the northern edge of Forest City where it again turns east.\n\nIn Worth County, it travels past the northern edges of Fertile and Hanlontown, where it soon crosses Interstate 35. West of I-35, it passes through the south side of Manly.\n\nIn Mitchell County, it makes a straight run to and through Osage. It swings back north and resumes going west to Riceville, crossing the Wapsipinicon River in the process.\nIn Howard County, the highway makes a transition into the Driftless Area of Iowa, with progressively more rugged terrain evident as one travels east. West of Cresco, and south of Lime Springs, it crosses U.S. Route 63 before going through Cresco. In the process, it crosses two tributaries of the Turkey River.\n\nIn Winneshiek County, it runs southeasterly, straightening out to go through Decorah in the valley of the Upper Iowa River. In Decorah, it crosses U.S. Route 52. It again takes a southeasterly drift. In Allamakee County, the highway becomes crooked. Just east of the county line, Iowa Highway 51 meets its northern terminus. Running south of Waukon, it then turns north through Waukon, briefly joined by Iowa Highway 76. In the northern part of Waukon, it curves north and east, into Lansing, through the valley of Clear Creek and downtown Lansing. Just before crossing the Mississippi River, it meets the southern terminus of Iowa Highway 26. It then turns onto the Black Hawk Bridge, where it joins Wisconsin Highway 82.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263249", "title": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (V)", "text": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (V)\n"}
{"id": "2263250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263250", "title": "Philippine Open (golf)", "text": "Philippine Open (golf)\n\nThe Philippine Open was one of the world's longest-running men's golf tournaments. First held in 1913, it is also Asia's oldest golf tournament and Asia's oldest national golf open. It was last played in 2018. The most distinguished golfer who has won the tournament is five-time British Open champion Peter Thomson of Australia. \n\nThe event was held in a variety of different golf courses around the Philippines and was an official money event on the Asian Tour from 1999 to 2015, having previously been a founding tournament on the Asia Golf Circuit. In March 2006 the National Golf Association of the Philippines granted all marketing rights for the tournament from 2006 to 2010 to the Asian Tour, which announced an aspiration to increase the prize fund from the 2006 level of US$200,000 to $1 million. In 2014, the prize fund was $300,000.\n\n^ rain shortened to 54 holes\n\nThe players who have won the Philippine Open more than once are the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "2263254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263254", "title": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (W)", "text": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (W)\n"}
{"id": "2263255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263255", "title": "Return of the Living Dead Part II", "text": "Return of the Living Dead Part II\n\nReturn of the Living Dead Part II is a 1988 American zombie comedy horror film written and directed by Ken Wiederhorn, and starring Michael Kenworthy, Marsha Dietlein, Dana Ashbrook, Thom Mathews, James Karen, and Phil Bruns. It is the first of four sequels to \"The Return of the Living Dead\".\n\nThe film was released by Lorimar Motion Pictures on January 8, 1988, and was a minor box office success, making over $9 million at the box office in the United States against its $6.2 million budget. The film was generally panned and currently holds a 0% Critics' Rating on Rotten Tomatoes, with a 43% Audience Rating. Much like its predecessor, it has since gained a cult following.\n\nDuring the zombie outbreak in Louisville, a military truck is transporting barrels of Trioxin, when one breaks loose and falls into a river without the driver noticing. The next morning, pre-teens Johnny and Billy take a reluctant Jesse Wilson to a cemetery mausoleum for a group initiation with a group of pre-teen bullies. Frightened, Jesse flees into a nearby sewer, where he and the others stumble across the rogue barrel. Upon opening it, they find a corpse inside and running away screaming as the toxic gas contained within begins to leak out. When Jesse says he's going to call the Army from a number on the barrel, the bullies trap him in the derelict mausoleum and leave him.\n\nBilly and Johnny return to the barrel and open it, releasing the Trioxin gas that begins to permeate the whole cemetery. A trio of graverobbers; Ed, Joey, and Brenda, arrive via van. Brenda is creeped out by cemeteries and stays behind in the van. Ed and Joey go into the cemetery where they start to loot the tombs in the mausoleum where Jesse is. When they enter it, Jesse is able to break free and run home. Meanwhile, acid rainfall causes the Trioxin to begin seeping into the ground and resuscitating the corpses.\n\nReturning home, Jesse is ordered to do his homework by his older sister, Lucy, but sneaks out of the house when a cable repairman, Tom, distracts her. He goes to Billy's house to see him, but he has suddenly fallen ill, so he makes up an excuse and Billy's mother allows him in for a brief visit. Suffering from the effects of Trioxin, Billy warns Jesse not to tell anyone what they've found. Against his friend's wishes, Jesse returns to the sewer to further examine the barrel. Upon seeing a tar-covered zombie, he flees to the cemetery, where the newly resurrected bodies begin to dig their way out of the ground. Meanwhile, Brenda goes to check on her companions and encounters a zombie, but is able to get away. Ed and Joey are still inside the mausoleum when a corpse comes to life. Joey smashes its head with a crowbar, and they flee the building. They are running through a mob of zombies when they run into a hysterical Brenda.\n\nJesse gets home and tries to tell Lucy about the zombie uprising, but she dismisses him and locks him in his room. Elsewhere, Ed, Joey, and Brenda show up at Billy's house to get help but they run away when Billy's dad pulls a shotgun on them. Meanwhile, Jesse starts a fire outside his door to set off the smoke alarms, to distract Lucy so he can escape. Jesse calls the Army and gets through to Colonel Glover, who had helped put down the Louisville outbreak days earlier, but the call gets disconnected. Ed, Joey, and Brenda steal Tom's van but are unable to get through the zombie horde, so they barge into Jesse's house. Joey begins to fall ill from Trioxin exposure. As the zombies close in on the house, the graverobbers attempt to find a getaway car. They manage to break into a doctor's house, where they convince him to let them use his car, and they drive to a hospital emergency room that appears to be deserted.\n\nAt Billy's house, his condition worsens and his father leaves to get a doctor, but Billy's mother sees him being attacked and eaten by a group of zombies. Fully turned, Billy proceeds to attacks his mother. Elsewhere, Tom, Lucy, and Jesse escape a group of zombies and take the car to look around town. They make it to Lucy and Jesse's grandfather's house and break into his gun safe to get weapons and ammo. They go back to the hospital where Ed and Joey are experiencing symptoms of rigor mortis. Jesse is attacked by a zombie that both he and Tom shot multiple times. Brenda is upset about the diagnosis for Joey, and they try to leave in the car, but Ed follows them and gets in the car. They are stopped at gunpoint by National Guardsman under Glover's command. A fully zombified Ed attacks and kills one of the soldiers, causing his squadmates to flee. Brenda drives away with Joey, leaving Ed behind. Brenda is attacked by a zombified Joey, and unable to kill her former lover she willfully lets him cannibalize her.\n\nFleeing in a stolen ambulance, the survivors come to a roadblock, and the National Guard mistakenly opens fire on them, thinking they are zombies. Realizing that the whole town had been evacuated, Tom thinks of a new strategy to give the zombies what they want, drives them to a meat packing plant. They take a truck and distribute brains out of the back as they drive to a power plant intending to electrocute them all. Billy opens the gate and zombies corner them into the truck. Jesse is attacked by Billy and stabs him with a screwdriver, and then activates the power, killing all of the zombies. Billy walks in, holding the screwdriver, and Jesse pushes his tormenter into a large transformer that falls through the roof. Glover and his men arrive to contain the scene and lead the others away.\n\n\nReleased on Island Records in 1988.\n\n\n\nThe film was released on DVD in 2004, containing a heavily altered soundtrack.\n\nActress Marsha Dietlein was asked in an August 2012 interview if the film would receive a newer and perhaps \"special\" DVD release, as was recently done for the first installment in the franchise. \"I wish they would do a retrospective, but I haven't heard anything about it,\" she said.\n\nThe film was given a Blu-ray release in 2018 by Shout! Factory. It contains a new 2K scan of the interpositive, plus a bunch of new special features that were not on the DVD. Along with that, it also restores the original theatrical soundtrack that was omitted on the DVD release.\n\nOne of the characters in the film is dressed like Michael Jackson.\n"}
{"id": "2263256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263256", "title": "International Water Management Institute", "text": "International Water Management Institute\n\nThe International Water Management Institute (IWMI) is a non-profit research organisation with headquarters in Colombo, Sri Lanka, and offices across Africa and Asia. Research at the Institute focuses on improving how water and land resources are managed, with the aim of underpinning food security and reducing poverty while safeguarding vital environmental processes.\n\nAs water becomes scarcer, there is a growing need to find ways to produce sufficient food to feed the world's expanding population, while using less water, safeguarding fragile environmental services and without having much opportunity to open up new agricultural lands. The Institute undertakes research projects with this aim in mind.\n\nIts research focuses on: water availability and access, including adaptation to climate change; how water is used and how it can be used more productively; water quality and its relationship to health and the environment; and how societies govern their water resources. In 2012, IWMI was awarded the prestigious Stockholm Water Prize Laureate by Stockholm International Water Institute for its pioneering research, which has helped to improve agricultural water management, enhance food security, protect environmental health and alleviate poverty in developing countries.\n\nIWMI is a member of CGIAR, a global research partnership that unites organizations engaged in research for sustainable development, and leads the CGIAR Research Program on Water, Land and Ecosystems. IWMI is also a partner in the CGIAR Research Programs on: Aquatic Agricultural Systems (AAS); Climate Change, Agriculture and Food Security (CCAFS); Dryland Systems; and Integrated Systems for the Humid Tropics.\n\nThe Institute was founded under the name International Irrigation Management Institute (IIMI) in 1985 by the Ford Foundation and the Government of Sri Lanka, supported by the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research and the World Bank. During the Green Revolution of the 1940s to 1970s, billions of dollars had been spent building large-scale irrigation systems. These contributed, along with new fertilizers, pesticides and high-yielding varieties of seeds, to helping many countries produce greater quantities of food crops. By the mid 1980s, however, these irrigation systems were no longer performing efficiently; IIMI's job was to find out why.\n\nIIMI's researchers discovered that problems affecting irrigation were often more institutional than technical. It advocated ‘Participatory Irrigation Management’ (PIM) as the solution, an approach that sought to involve farmers in water management decisions. In 1992, the Rio de Janeiro Earth Summit gave credence to this approach by recommending that water management be decentralized, with farmers and other stakeholders playing a more important role in managing natural resources. Initially met with resistance, PIM went on to become the status quo for governments and major lending agencies. IIMI became a member of the CGIAR system in 1991.\n\nBy the mid 1990s, competition for water resources was rising, thanks to a larger global population, expanding cities and increasing industrial applications. Viewing irrigation in isolation was no longer relevant to the global situation. A new approach was needed that would consider it within a river basin context, encompassing competing users and the environment. IIMI began developing new fields of research, on topics such as open and closed basins, water accounting, multiple-use systems, basin institutions, remote sensing analysis and environmental flows. In 1998, its name changed to the International Water Management Institute (IWMI), reflecting this new wider approach.\n\nAlthough it was becoming evident that water could no longer be considered an \"infinite resource\", as had been the case in the 1950s when there were fewer people on the planet, no one knew just how scarce the resource was. This prompted IWMI to try to find out. Its research culminated in publication of \"Water for food, Water for life: A comprehensive assessment of water management in agriculture\". A map within the report showed that a third of the world's population already suffered from ‘water scarcity’. The report defined physical water scarcity, as being where there are insufficient water resources to meet the demands of the population, and economic water scarcity as where water requirements are not satisfied because of a lack of investment in water or human capacity.\nIWMI's approach towards defining water scarcity provided a new context within which the scientific debate on water availability subsequently became centred. For example, the theme of the UN World Water Day in 2007 was Coping with Water Scarcity; The USA's Worldwatch Institute featured a chapter on water management in its assessment \"State of the World 2008\"; and reports published in 2009 by the World Economic Forum and UNESCO concluded that water scarcity is now a bigger threat than the global financial crisis. Dr. Rajendra K. Pachauri, Chair of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, also highlighted water scarcity at the 2009 Nobel Conference.\n\nIf current trends continue, global annual water usage is set to increase by more than two trillion cubic metres by 2030, rising to 6.9 trillion cubic metres. That equates to 40 per cent more than can be provided by available water supplies. At Stockholm World Water Week 2010, IWMI highlighted a six-point plan for averting a water crisis. According to the Institute, the following actions are required: 1) gather high-quality data about water resources; 2) take better care of the environment; 3) reform how water resources are governed; 4) revitalize how water is used for farming; 5) better manage urban and municipal demands for water; and 6) involve marginalized people in water management.\n\nIn 2011, IWMI celebrated its 25th anniversary by commissioning a series of essays on agricultural and development.\n\nIWM's work in Gujarat, India, exemplifies how improving water management can have an influence on peoples' livelihoods. The state faced the dual problem of bankrupt electricity utilities and depleted groundwater storage following the introduction of electricity subsidies to farmers from around 1970. The situation arose because the subsidies enabled farmers to easily pump groundwater from ever-increasing depths. The Asian Development Bank and World Bank both indicated that governments should cut the electricity subsidies and charge farmers based on metered consumption of power. However, when some state governments tried to do so, the farmers formed such powerful lobbies that several chief ministers lost their seats. A different solution was clearly required.\n\nIWMI scientists who studied the problem suggested governments should introduce ‘intelligent rationing’ of farm power supply by separating the power cables carrying electricity to farmers from those supplying other rural users, such as domestic households and industries. They should then provide farmers with a high-quality power supply for a set number of hours each day at a price they could afford. Eventually Gujarat decided to include these recommendations in a larger programme to reform the electricity utility. A study conducted afterwards found its impacts to be much greater than anticipated. Prior to the change, tube-well owners had been holding rural communities to ransom by ‘stealing’ power for irrigation. After the cables were separated, rural households, schools and industries had a much higher-quality power supply, which in turn boosted individuals’ well-being.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263261", "title": "Ceramic, North Carolina", "text": "Ceramic, North Carolina\n\nCeramic is a ghost town in Stokes County, North Carolina, United States approximately ten miles southeast of the county seat of Danbury, near Belews Lake.\n\nCeramic as a community ceased to exist at least 6 decades ago. The community was started by a ceramic pipe and drain tile manufacturing company, presently the \"Pine Hall\" brick company. Only remnants of the factory exist, it appears that fire may have caused its demise. The huge clay pits are surrounded by overgrown trees and underbrush and are nearly impossible to find. The only residents are small game and coyotes.\n"}
{"id": "2263263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263263", "title": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (Y)", "text": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (Y)\n"}
{"id": "2263265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263265", "title": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (Z)", "text": "List of Members of the Canadian Senate (Z)\n"}
{"id": "2263266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263266", "title": "Al Molinaro", "text": "Al Molinaro\n\nAlbert Francis \"Al\" Molinaro (born Umberto Francesco Molinaro; June 24, 1919 – October 30, 2015) was an American actor. He was known for his television sitcom roles as Al Delvecchio on \"Happy Days\" and Officer Murray Greshler on \"The Odd Couple\". He also appeared in many television commercials, including On-Cor frozen dinners.\n\nMolinaro was born and raised in the Columbus Park neighborhood of Kenosha, Wisconsin, the second-youngest of ten children of Italian immigrants, Raffaele and Teresa Molinaro, from Calabria.\n\nMolinaro's father was a prominent tavern/restaurant/hotel owner, and a leader of the Kenosha Italian community who financially sponsored hundreds of Italians to immigrate to the United States. Molinaro's brother Joseph was Kenosha County's longest-serving district attorney and retired as a municipal judge, and his brother George served 30 years in the Wisconsin State Assembly, including one session as Speaker.\n\nAt school Al discovered a talent for public speaking, although he struggled at high school, staying on an extra year to graduate. In 1940 he left home, taking a bus to seek fame and fortune as an actor in Los Angeles. In 1948, Molinaro married Jacquelin Martin, with whom he had a son, Michael. The couple divorced.\n\nMolinaro moved to California permanently working in odd jobs on the edge of the television industry, finally saving enough money to start his own collection agency. He eventually sold his business and became interested in southern California real estate speculation. His investments paid off when one of his properties was purchased by a conglomerate which used the land to build one of the largest retail shopping malls which provided an income to launch a career in acting. As a result, Molinaro was already financially independent when he decided to pursue his longtime dream of being an actor.\n\nIn the 1960s and 1970s, Molinaro studied acting and was offered guest roles and bit parts on television sitcoms, including \"Bewitched\", \"Get Smart\", \"Green Acres\" and \"That Girl\". He took an improvisation class, in which Penny Marshall was one of the other students. In 1970, Marshall introduced him to her brother, producer Garry Marshall, who offered Molinaro the role of police officer Murray Greshler on the television sitcom \"The Odd Couple\", which starred Jack Klugman and Tony Randall, based on Neil Simon's play; during which time he lived in a hotel in midtown New York City. \"The first time I went to New York City\", said his son Michael, \"it was because he had moved there to do a number of commercials. He did not merely play a cop walking the beat on 'The Odd Couple'. He used to walk the streets of New York City and loved it.\" The show aired for five years until 1975.\n\nIn 1976, Molinaro was hired by Garry Marshall to replace Pat Morita on another sitcom he produced, \"Happy Days\". Molinaro's character was the owner of Arnold's malt shop, Al Delvecchio, who was known for the sighing catchphrase \"Yeah-yeah-yeah-yeah...\". Happy Days was set in Milwaukee, in Al's home state of Wisconsin. It ran for eleven seasons, from 1974-84.\n\nIn 1981, Molinaro remarried, to Betty Farrell. He left \"Happy Days\" in 1982, when tapped by Garry Marshall to play the Al Delvecchio role on the short-lived \"Happy Days\" spin-off \"Joanie Loves Chachi\".\n\nMolinaro starred in a failed TV pilot called \"The Ugily Family\" (1982) as the patriarch of an unattractive clan who is constantly correcting mispronunciations of his surname as \"ugly”.\n\nIn 1987, Molinaro and fellow \"Happy Days\" cast member Anson Williams opened a chain of diners called Big Al's. The business went defunct. He revealed in 1990 that he declined acting roles in movies offered to him by Garry Marshall. Molinaro said at the time, \"I can't work in movies with Garry because I’m so square that I won’t be in a movie that has four-letter words in it. . . . That puts me pretty much totally out of films these days. . . . You get to a point where you don’t want to do just anything for the career. You gotta live with yourself\". Starting in 1990, Molinaro played grandfather Joe Alberghetti on the CBS sitcom \"The Family Man\", which was canceled after one season. The show was produced by Miller-Boyett Productions, which also produced \"Happy Days\".\n\nMolinaro was proud of his role on \"Happy Days\" and defended its anachronistic look as authentic and a genuine show that did not sentimentalize the past. Its success was down to syndication of the series into a franchise that was marketed around the world in many countries. Molinaro was a frequent guest on the \"Don and Mike Show\", a nationally syndicated radio show that aired from 1985 to 2008.\n\nMolinaro reprised his role as Al Delvecchio from \"Happy Days\" in Weezer's 1994 music video of the song \"Buddy Holly\", which was set in Arnold's diner. He introduced the band by saying, \"Okay kids, Arnold's is proud to present Kenosha, Wisconsin's own Weezer!\" His somewhat laid-back laconic sideways glance at the humour led him to remark, In the industry, they used to consider us like a bubble-gum show. But I think they overlooked one thing. To the public in America \"Happy Days\" was an important show, and I think it still is.\n\nIn 1992, he appeared in the \"Happy Days Reunion Special\" on ABC. He did not participate in \"Happy Days: 30th Anniversary Reunion\", which the network aired in 2005.\n\nHe retired from acting in television and films in the early 1990s, but continued to appear in TV commercials until the early 2000s. He appeared in 42 commercials for On-Cor frozen foods between 1987 and 2003. He also starred in television advertisements for Cortaid hydrocortisone cream and Mr. Big paper products.\n\nIn reflecting on his acting career in 2004, Molinaro said, \"I spent 20 years here before I got anything going...You’ve just got to be lucky and in the right place at the right time.\". The same year, Molinaro announced plans to write a book about his childhood in Kenosha and his acting experiences.\n\nMolinaro died of complications from an infected gallbladder at a hospital in Glendale, California on October 30, 2015 at the age of 96. He was cremated.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263267", "title": "Rudolph B. Davila", "text": "Rudolph B. Davila\n\nRudolph B. Davila (April 27, 1916 – January 26, 2002), born in El Paso, Texas, was a United States Army officer, of Spanish-Filipino descent, who received the Medal of Honor for his actions in Italy during World War II. He was the only person of Filipino ancestry to receive the medal for his heroic actions in the European theatre. He was initially awarded the Distinguished Service Cross. However, in 1998, after an extensive review, his medal was upgraded to the Medal of Honor.\n\nDavila was born to a Spanish father and a Filipino mother in El Paso, Texas. His family moved to Watts, California when he was a child. There he was raised and received his primary and secondary education. Davila enlisted in the Army from Los Angeles in March 1941.\n\nDavila was a United States Army Staff Sergeant assigned to Company H of the 7th Infantry Regiment, 3rd Infantry Division. On May 28, 1944, his company was involved in an offensive, near Artena, Italy, which broke through the German mountain strongholds surrounding the Anzio beachhead. His company was under a heavy enemy attack and for an unknown reason his machine gunners were reluctant to risk putting their guns into action. Realizing that his company was in danger, Davila crawled 50 yards to the nearest machine gun and fired over 750 rounds into the enemy strongholds in the foothills.\n\nHis fellow machine gunners reacted and Davila directed their firepower with hand and arm signals until the two enemy hostile machine guns were silenced. Despite being wounded by the enemy, he continued his assault by engaging the enemy from the turret of a burnt tank.\n\nDavila then spotted what he believed to be a rifle barrel in a farmhouse window. He grabbed a rifle and two grenades and went inside the farmhouse. He tossed the grenades at the attic and shot at the troops inside, destroying two more enemy machine gun nests. The enemy was forced to abandon their prepared positions.\n\nDavila received a battlefield commission to Lieutenant and even though a Captain in the rifle company said he would recommend Davila for the Medal of Honor, the highest honor for battlefield valor, Davila was instead awarded the Distinguished Service Cross, the Army's second highest military honor.\n\nDavila continued to serve with his company after he recovered from his leg wound. A few months after the Artena attack, Davila found himself in France's Vosges Mountains. He received a chest wound from a shell which ricocheted off a tree as he was ordering his men to storm a German tank. The tank shell caused injuries that left his right arm paralyzed.\n\nDavila was treated for his wounds at a hospital in Modesto, California. There he met a nurse by the name of Harriet and three months later they were married. He continued his education and earned a bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of Southern California, and became a high school history teacher in Los Angeles. He moved to Vista in 1977 with his wife after he retired from teaching.\n\nHis wife, Harriet Davila, lobbied Army officials to award the Medal of Honor to her husband based on the actions he performed during the Allied offensive in Italy, after she became aware of her husband's heroic actions. For years, she petitioned the government for her husband's medal — making phone calls, writing letters and researching military records to prove her husband deserved the Medal of Honor. No reply ever came.\n\nIn 1996, Hawaii Senator Daniel Akaka secured a Congressionally mandated review of records for Asian-Americans who had earned the Distinguished Service Cross in World War II. Congress reviewed the records to determine whether they were unfairly denied the military's highest award for valor.\n\nOn June 21, 2000, President Bill Clinton, bestowed the Medal of Honor on Davila and 21 other World War II servicemen of Asian descent at a White House ceremony. Only seven of 22 recipients were still alive when the medals were handed out. Previously only two of the 40,000-plus Asian-Americans who served in World War II had been awarded the Medal of Honor.\n\nArmy Secretary Louis Caldera inducted the soldiers into the Pentagon's Hall of Heroes on June 22. Harriet Davila, his wife, had died six months before, on December 25, 1999.\n\nSubsequently, Davila was honored by the city of Vista. He served as the guest speaker at the Veterans of Foreign Wars' Memorial Day ceremony in 2001.\n\nDavila died of cancer on January 26, 2002, in Vista, California. He was buried with full military honors at Arlington National Cemetery. At the time of his death Davila was survived by his three sons, Roland, Jeffrey and Gregg and two daughters Jill and Tana, and nine grandchildren.\n\nAmong Davila's decorations and medals were the following:\n\n\nBadges:\nForeign unit decorations\n"}
{"id": "2263271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263271", "title": "Student Academy Awards", "text": "Student Academy Awards\n\nThe Student Academy Awards are presented by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences in an annual competition for college and university filmmakers.\n\nThe awards were originally named the Student Film Awards and were first presented in 1973. Since 1975, the awards have been given annually, usually in June. The current name was adopted effective in 1991.\n\nThe awards offer prizes in four categories: alternative (experimental film), animation, documentary, and narrative. Gold, silver, and bronze awards may be given in each category, with accompanying cash grants of $5,000, $3,000, and $2,000, respectively, as of 2005. Since 1981, a separate award has been given annually to a student filmmaker from outside the United States.\n\nSeveral award winners have gone on to significant achievement as filmmakers, including Robert Zemeckis, Bob Saget, Spike Lee, Trey Parker, Pete Docter and John Lasseter. Some of the award-winning student films have themselves been nominated for and/or won the Academy Award in the short film categories, including \"Chicks in White Satin\", \"The Janitor\", \"\", \"The Lunch Date\", \"9\", \"Quiero ser (I want to be...)\", \"The Red Jacket\", \"On the Line (Auf der Strecke)\", \"God of Love\", \"The Confession\" and \"4.1 Miles\".\n\nTo extend the impact and honor beyond the competition, a compilation presentation of the gold medal award-winning films is circulated each year free of charge to educational and non-profit organizations nationwide.\n\nCopies (and some elements) for over 90% of films honored with Student Academy Awards, along with recordings of many of the awards ceremonies, are held by the Academy Film Archive.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263273", "title": "Chewing gum bug", "text": "Chewing gum bug\n\nA chewing gum bug is a practical joke gag used to play tricks on people, usually adults. The appearance is of a 5-pack of chewing gum, with one stick of gum remaining. The trick works when the prankster tricks the victim into pulling out the last stick of gum. A small rubber bug (folded back to fit in the pack) springs out and smacks the victim on the finger he or she used to hold the fake stick of chewing gum. It does not hurt or injure the victim, though it can potentially annoy the victim. Some variants deliver a mild electric shock, or set off a cap. After a person touches the chewing gum bug, they also may report a \"tingly feeling\" similar to pins and needles.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263274", "title": "Stripe-breasted spinetail", "text": "Stripe-breasted spinetail\n\nThe stripe-breasted spinetail (\"Synallaxis cinnamomea\") is a passerine bird found in the tropical New World in Trinidad, Tobago, Colombia and Venezuela. This species is a fairly common resident breeder in hill forest, and in Tobago also occurs in lowland and scrub habitats.\nIt is a member of the South American bird family Furnariidae, a group in which many species build elaborate clay nests, giving rise to the English name for the family of \"ovenbirds\".\n\nHowever, stripe-breasted spinetail constructs a spherical stick nest with a tubular entrance low in a bush, into which its two greenish white eggs are laid.\n\nThe stripe-breasted spinetail is typically 14 cm long, and weighs 16 g. It is a slender bird with a longish tail. The upperparts and head are dark brown, and the wings are chestnut. The throat is white streaked with black, and the rest of the underparts are dark-streaked buff.\n\nThe sexes are similar, but there are several races. \"S. c. aveledoi\" is paler, \"S. c. striatipectus\" is darker and \"S. c. bolivari\" is whiter with a less streaked throat. The Tobago form \"S. c. terrestrisi\" is large and pale, and \"S. c. carri\" on Trinidad is dark and lightly streaked.\n\nStripe-breasted spinetail is an insectivore which is often difficult to see as it forages in undergrowth, but may be located by its calls, a querulous \"chew\" or a high-pitched nasal \"keep gcing\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2263276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263276", "title": "Phoenix Dwarf", "text": "Phoenix Dwarf\n\nThe Phoenix Dwarf is a dwarf irregular galaxy discovered in 1976 by Hans-Emil Schuster and Richard Martin West and mistaken for a globular cluster. It is currently 1.44 Mly away from Earth. Its name comes from the fact that it is part of the Phoenix constellation.\n\nThe Phoenix Dwarf has an inner part of young stars which is stretched in an east-west direction and an outer part of mainly old stars that is stretched north-south. The central region's rate of star formation seems to have been relatively constant across time (Martínez-Delgado et al. 1999). In 1999, St-Germain et al. discovered a H I region of about 10 just to the west of Phoenix. Its radial velocity is -23 km/s and may be physically associated with Phoenix if it is found to have a similar radial velocity.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263283", "title": "Mark Noll", "text": "Mark Noll\n\nMark Allan Noll (born 1946) is an American historian specializing in the history of Christianity in the United States. He holds the position of Research Professor of History at Regent College, having previously been Francis A. McAnaney Professor of History at the University of Notre Dame. Noll is a Reformed evangelical Christian and in 2005 was named by \"Time\" magazine as one of the twenty-five most influential evangelicals in America.\n\nBorn on July 18, 1946, Noll is a graduate of Wheaton College, Illinois (B.A, English), the University of Iowa (M.A., English), Trinity Evangelical Divinity School (M.A., Church History and Theology), and Vanderbilt University (Ph.D, History of Christianity). Before coming to Notre Dame, he was on the faculty at Wheaton College, Illinois for twenty-seven years, where he taught in the departments of history and theology as McManis Professor of Christian Thought. While at Wheaton, Noll also co-founded (with Nathan Hatch) and directed the Institute for the Study of American Evangelicals (ISAE), which ran from 1982 until 2014.\n\nNoll is a prolific author and many of his books have earned considerable acclaim within the academic community. In particular, \"The Scandal of the Evangelical Mind\", a book about anti-intellectual tendencies within the American evangelical movement, was widely covered in both religious and secular publications. He was awarded a National Humanities Medal in the Oval Office by President George W. Bush in 2006.\n\nNoll, along with other historians such as George Marsden, Nathan O. Hatch, and David Bebbington, has greatly contributed to the world's understanding of evangelical convictions and attitudes, past and present. He has caused many scholars and lay people to realize more deeply the complications inherent in the question, \"Is America a Christian nation?\"\n\nIn 1994, he co-signed Evangelicals and Catholics Together, an ecumenical document that expressed the need for greater cooperation between evangelical and Catholic leaders in the United States.\n\nFrom 2006 to 2016, Noll was a faculty member in Department of History at Notre Dame. He replaced the retiring George Marsden as Notre Dame's Francis A. McAnaney Professor of History. Noll stated that the move to Notre Dame allowed him to concentrate on fewer subjects than his duties at Wheaton had allowed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263291", "title": "Philippine Open", "text": "Philippine Open\n\nPhilippine Open may refer to several sporting events.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263295", "title": "USS Perry", "text": "USS Perry\n\nUSS \"Perry\" may refer to the following United States Navy ships that are named for Oliver Hazard Perry:\n\n\nSee also\n"}
{"id": "2263305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263305", "title": "Wesley Walls", "text": "Wesley Walls\n\nCharles Wesley Walls (born March 26, 1966) is a former American football tight end who played 14 seasons in the National Football League.\n\nWalls played high school football in Pontotoc, Mississippi. He spent his first three years as a quarterback at South Pontotoc High School. Before his senior year, he transferred to Pontotoc High School, a rival high school. Walls' transfer caused such an uproar in the area, the case went to court, and Walls' eligibility for baseball and basketball was denied. He switched to fullback his senior year, and made the all-state team.\n\nWalls' ability at Pontotoc High earned him a scholarship to the University of Mississippi. He actually played defensive end for three years, but became a linebacker in his senior year. In addition, he played tight end. In a rare move under today's football system, Walls actually started both positions in a game against Memphis State University. After realizing that playing both offense and defense would be too much, he became the team's permanent tight end. He was still utilized on third-down situations as a pass rusher, however. He earned All-America honors as a senior. Walls was elected to the College Football Hall of Fame in 2014.\n\nWalls was drafted in the second round (56th overall) by the San Francisco 49ers in the 1989 NFL Draft. Despite early success in his career, including catching a nine-yard pass in the 49ers 55-10 rout of the Denver Broncos in Super Bowl XXIV, he was second on the depth chart behind All-Pro Brent Jones. He spent the entire 1992 NFL season and 1993 NFL season on injured reserve because of nagging shoulder injuries. In 1994, he signed as a free agent with the New Orleans Saints. Walls spent two seasons with the Saints, setting the team record for tight end receptions in 1995 with 57. He then signed a deal with the Carolina Panthers to become their starting tight end. It was in Carolina that Walls finally broke out as a player. He made the Pro Bowl five times between 1996 and 2001, only missing it during the 2000 season due to injuries that kept him out for 8 games. While at Carolina, he was also the back-up punter to Ken Walter. After Carolina declined to re-sign him in 2003, he signed with the Green Bay Packers, mostly backing up Bubba Franks, and retired the following year. Walls finished his career with 450 catches for 5,291 yards and 54 touchdowns.\n\nOn July 9, 2019, the Panthers announced that Walls would be inducted into the team's Hall of Honor along with Jake Delhomme, Jordan Gross, and Steve Smith Sr.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263310", "title": "Xia County", "text": "Xia County\n\nXia County or Xiaxian () is a county in the southwest of Shanxi province, People's Republic of China, bordering Henan province to the southeast. It is under the jurisdiction of Yuncheng City.\n\nIt was originally named Anyi city (安邑; \"peaceful district\" Middle Chinese: Anyip city) in ancient China, and served as the previous capitals of the Xia Dynasty and the Wei kingdom.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263315", "title": "Maura D. Corrigan", "text": "Maura D. Corrigan\n\nMaura D. Corrigan (born June 14, 1948) is the former director of the Michigan Department of Human Services. She was also a justice of the Michigan Supreme Court, serving from 1998 to 2011 and as chief justice from 2001 to 2004.\n\nShe graduated from Marygrove College in Detroit, Michigan in 1969 and earned her Juris Doctor degree from the University of Detroit Law School in 1973. While in law school, she worked as a probation officer at a Detroit court.\n\nHer first job after law school was with the Michigan Court of Appeals, where she served as a law clerk to Judge John Gillis. She next worked as a Wayne County assistant prosecutor. In 1979, she became an assistant U.S. Attorney, serving as chief of appeals; she later became the first woman to serve as chief assistant U.S. Attorney. In 1989, she became a partner at the Detroit law firm of Plunkett & Cooney. In 1992, Governor John Engler appointed her to the Michigan Court of Appeals. She was twice elected to that court and served as its chief judge from 1997 to 1998.\n\nCorrigan is a long-time member of the Federalist Society, Michigan Lawyers Chapter. She was also president of The Incorporated Society of Irish-American Lawyers and of the Federal Bar Association, Detroit Chapter.\n\nA member of the Pew Commission on Children in Foster Care, Corrigan has been recognized for her work on foster care and adoption issues, including \"The Detroit News\"'\n\"Michiganian of the Year\" award.\n\nCorrigan is the widow of Joseph D. Grano, a professor of constitutional law at Wayne State University. She has two children: Megan Grano, a comedian with Second City in Chicago, and Daniel Grano, an associate attorney with Flood, Lanctot, Connor & Stablein, PLLC, a law firm in Royal Oak, Michigan.\nShe has supported several of George W. Bush's nominees to the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit which includes the state of Michigan. She had this to say about nominee Richard A. Griffin: \nI have known Judge Griffin since 1992, when I first joined the Michigan Court of Appeals. I was fortunate to hear cases on panels with Judge Griffin on many occasions during my seven years as a Court of Appeals judge. Judge Griffin is intellectually gifted. He is a spirited questioner who 'cuts to the chase'. He is consistently well-prepared for oral argument and offers incisive views on the assigned cases to his colleagues. He is current in all his own writing assignments and promptly circulates his votes on his colleagues' opinions. He acquired excellent work habits from private practice that he applies to the business of appellate judging. \n\nCorrigan had been mentioned as a potential nominee to the Supreme Court following the announced retirement of Sandra Day O'Connor and the withdrawal of Harriet Miers, and before President Bush's nomination of Samuel Alito. Jan Crawford Greenburg recounted in her history of contemporary Supreme Court nominations that Corrigan declined to be considered for a vacancy because she did not desire to go through the ordeal of the nomination and confirmation process.\n\nCorrigan advocates the judicial philosophy of textualism, which \"promotes adherence to the actual text of statutes\". In an article in the \"New York University Annual Survey of American Law\", Corrigan argued that resort to history in interpreting a statute is a form of \"dice loading\".\n\nThe Michigan Department of Human Services (DHS) is the state's second-largest agency. The DHS oversees almost 12,000 employees and has an annual budget of more than $6 billion to administer federal programs.\n\nThe DHS staff handles more than 1.5 million medical assistance cases and approximately 1.7 million cash and food-assistance cases all across Michigan. It oversees Michigan's child and adult protective services, foster care, adoptions, juvenile justice, domestic violence, and child-support programs. The DHS also licenses adult foster care, child day care and child welfare facilities.\n\nIn 2011 she caused major controversy in cutting students' access to food benefits. She also made headlines with statements about students' work ethic and their access to jobs.\n\nAs DHS Director she oversaw the state's Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program during the Flint water crisis.\n\nCorrigan sits on the board of research organization Child Trends.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263323", "title": "Ivan Stambolić", "text": "Ivan Stambolić\n\nIvan Stambolić (; 5 November 1936 – 25 August 2000) was a Serbian politician. He was a prominent official of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia and the President of the Presidency of Serbia in the 1980s.\n\nIn August 2000, he was assassinated. His uncle was politician Petar Stambolić.\n\nStambolić graduated from the University of Belgrade's Law School. In spring 1986, he became the President of the Presidency of Serbia. He was a mentor and a close personal friend to Slobodan Milošević, and supported him in the elections for the new leader of the League of Communists of Serbia, to the dismay of the other leaders in the party. Stambolić spent three days advocating Milošević's election and finally managed to secure him a tight victory, the tightest ever in the history of Serbian Communist Party internal elections.\n\nStambolić and Milošević held similar views on the autonomous provinces of Serbia, Kosovo and Vojvodina, both feeling that constitutional changes were necessary to sort out their relationship with the centre. Stambolić managed to win over the League of Communists of Yugoslavia to his position on this matter at the Thirteenth Congress of the LCY, held in 1986, and then set up a commission to work out the details of the constitutional reforms that were eventually passed in 1989. He also wanted to protect the rights of Serbs and Montenegrins in Kosovo, insisting as early as 1982 that he would speak up for those rights even if his opponents labelled him a Greater Serbian nationalist. Where Milošević and he differed on these matters was Milošević's demand for greater rapidity and his stronger sympathy for Serb demonstrators. It was the issue of speed that was to bring the two into conflict.\n\nStambolić and the Serbian government joined the federal Yugoslav government in harshly condemning the controversial Memorandum of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts of 1986 for inciting nationalism. Stambolić said: \n\n\"we [communist party leaders] do not accept the Memorandum’s call for Serbia to turn its back on its own future and the future of Yugoslavia, for it to arbitrarily accuse the proven leaders of the revolution and of socialist development, for Serbian Communists to be seen as the illegitimate leaders of the working class and people of Serbia.\" \n\nDragiša Pavlović, Milošević's fairly liberal successor at the head of the Belgrade Committee of the party, opposed his policy towards the solving of the issues of the Kosovo Serbs, calling it \"hastily promised speed\". Milošević denounced Pavlović as being soft on Albanian radicals, contrary to advice from Stambolić. On 23/24 September 1987, at the subsequent eighth session of the Central Committee, one that lasted around 30 hours, and was broadcast live on the state television, Milošević had Pavlović deposed, to the utter embarrassment of Ivan Stambolić, who resigned under pressure from Milošević's supporters a few days later.\n\nIn December 1987, Stambolić was officially voted off the position and replaced by Petar Gračanin, who was in turn succeeded the following year by Milošević himself.\n\nStambolić mysteriously disappeared on 25 August 2000, still during the rule of Slobodan Milošević. On 28 March 2003, the police revealed that he was murdered on Fruška Gora by eight Special Operations Unit officers. On 18 July 2005, these men and their co-conspirators were found guilty of the murder of Stambolić and were sentenced to between 15 and 40 years in prison. The court found that the order for Stambolić's murder came from Slobodan Milošević.\n\n<br>\n\n"}
{"id": "2263345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263345", "title": "Mamoun Darkazanli", "text": "Mamoun Darkazanli\n\nMamoun Darkazanli (Arabic: مأمون داركازنلي (born August 4, 1958) in Aleppo, Syria) is a citizen of Germany and Syria who is wanted in Spain on terrorism charges.\n\nHe was arrested on October 15, 2004 in Hamburg on a Spanish warrant, but freed on July 18, 2005 after a ruling by the Federal Constitutional Court of Germany. Darkazanli is under sanction, as affiliate or supporter of al-Qaida, by the United Nations, by the European Union, and by the United States Treasury as a Specially Designated Global Terrorist. His company, called Mamoun Darkazanli Import-Export Company or Darkazanli Export-Import Sonderposten, in Hamburg, until recently was listed as well.\n"}
{"id": "2263346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263346", "title": "Belle, Udupi", "text": "Belle, Udupi\n\nBelle (also known as Bollay) is a village in the southern state of Karnataka, India. It is located in the Udupi taluk of Udupi district. The village is known for its historic Moodu-Belle Mahalingeshwara Temple dedicated to Shiva.\n\nAs of the 2001 India census, Belle had a population of 5324 with 2441 males and 2883 females.\n\nThe village economy is predominantly based on agriculture, with plenty of rice cultivation. Some modern changes are apparent. Cultivation of Jasmine flowers, coconut, arecanut, sugarcane and poultry farming is on the rise.\n\nThe weekly market of Belle is on Tuesdays. Belle is connected to Udupi, the district and Taluka headquarters, Karkala, Shirva, and Katapadi by a bus service. The economic prosperity of the village may be due to the employment of a significant a number of people from the village in the Gulf countries.\n\nThe village has a thousand year old temple dedicated to the Hindu deity Mahalingeshwara, which is situated in the Devaragudde area. Ganesha and Surya Narayana are the other two deities worshiped in the temple. The circular shrine of the Solar deity Surya within the temple complex is of historical importance. The idol of the solar deity is a neat image and holds lotuses in both his hands The temple festival called \"Utsava\" takes place in the second week of February. The temple was established by an aristocratic Bunt woman named Ballalthi of the Belle Ballal clan, the chief land owning feudals of Belle. The Belle Ballala Bunt clan is a cadet branch of the Arasa Ballala rulers of Yerdanadu Aramane, a small medieval feudatory state. The Ballalas claimed descent from the Jaina Santara dynasty who married into the local Alupa dynasty of Tulu Nadu. The Belle Ballala clan were originally followers of Jainism but converted to Shaivism later. They follow the law of matrilineal inheritance (Aliyasantana) and have five manor houses in Belle which are Belle Melmane, Belle Kelamane, Belle Badagumane, Belle Padumane and Belle Moodumane. These five manors owned close to 2000 acres of land in feudal and colonial times before land reforms were implemented in the 1960s\n\nA medieval wooden image of one of the chiefs (Ballal) of Belle lies in a shrine near the Kelamane House. \n\nTwo branches of the clan exist outside Belle: Mallar Guthu (erstwhile feudal lords of Mallar village) and Sanoor Guthu (erstwhile \"Potail\" (administrators) of Sanoor Village). Moodubelle Kambala is held at Belle Kelamane House in November every year. Mallarguthu Sankappa Shetty, a member of this clan built the Kalya Marigudi Temple in Kaup.\n\nThe western part of the village also has an old temple dedicated to the Hindu deity Mahalingeshwara Shiva. The temple was recently renovated.\n\nA Roman Catholic Church which is also one of the biggest churches in the Udupi Diocese. It is place of worship for a large Konkani speaking Catholic population. An annual festival (Santhmary) takes place every year on the first Tuesday, Wednesday of January. People from many communities go to the church and celebrate the feast.\n\nThe village has a primary school, a high school, and a junior college. There is an English language school that also offers primary and high school. By 2012–2013, a college offering degrees (B.A. and B.Com.) will open, beginning its first classes.\n\nEducational Institutes in the area include: St. Lawrence College, St. Lawrence High School (Kannada), Bharathi Higher Primary School (KunthalaNagara), Belle Church Aided Higher Primary School (Kannada), Jnanaganga College (Nellikatte).\n\nBelle village has been geographically separated into two parts: Moodubelle (Belle - East), Padubelle (Belle-West). A river, Badra Amma (also known as Papanashini), flows between Moodu Belle and Padu Belle. Moodu Belle village is around 12 km from District Headquarters Udupi by road.\n\nTulu, Konkani and Kannada are widely spoken. Tulu is the lingua franca in the area as it is in most of Tulu Nadu.\n\nThe nearest airport is Mangalore International Airport. The nearest railway station is at Udupi. \n\nBy road, Moodubelle lies in State Highway SH-37 and it is well connected by road network.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263355", "title": "Amy Gillett", "text": "Amy Gillett\n\nAmy Elizabeth Gillett (née Safe; 9 January 1976 – 18 July 2005) was an Australian track cyclist and rower who represented Australia in both sports. She was killed when a driver crashed into the Australian squad of cyclists with whom she was training with in Germany.\n\nGillett was born in Adelaide and was educated at Annesley College. She was a world champion junior rower, winning a gold medal in the coxless pair in the Junior World Championships in 1993 and the women's single scull in 1994. She came fifth in the single scull in the Nations Cup held in Paris the same year.\n\nAt 20, she was a member of the Australian women's eight at the Atlanta Olympics. She was coached by Simon Gillett during her rowing career and later married him in January 2004, moving to Mount Helen near Ballarat. After failing to make the Australian rowing team for the Sydney Olympics she quit the sport but was identified as a cyclist with potential. She was an Australian Institute of Sport rowing and cycling scholarship holder.\n\nIn 2002 Gillett was first in the Individual Pursuit Australian Titles, held in Victoria. From 2002 to 2005, she was a member of the Australian Institute of Sport elite cycling squad and represented Australia in the 2002 and 2003 Cycling World Cups. While she was not a member of the Australian cycling team for the 2004 Athens Olympics, her results during 2005 were steadily improving including a third place in the 2005 Road Time Trial Australian Open Titles. She was rated as one of the top 100 women road cyclists at the time of her death and Australian cycling officials had identified her as a potential medallist in the 2006 Commonwealth Games in the time trial. Gillett was also undertaking a doctorate at the University of South Australia at the time of her death.\n\nGillett died after a crash near Zeulenroda, Germany on 18 July 2005, when a young German driver lost control of her car and drove head first into six members of the Australian women's cycling squad, who were preparing for the Thüringen Rundfahrt der Frauen stage race. Five of Gillett's Australian team mates suffered injuries, most very serious. Katie Brown, Lorian Graham, Kate Nichols, Alexis Rhodes and Louise Yaxley were taken immediately to hospital, with Rhodes and Yaxley suffering major trauma. Graham and Brown had incurred fractures and Nichols had torn tendons requiring surgery. The newly qualified driver was fined €1440 and disqualified from driving for eight months.\n\nSimon Gillett and the Australian Cycling Federation subsequently established the Amy Gillett Foundation. The Foundation's aims were to:\n\nIn 2018, the way the scholarship was awarded and operated changed, as Cycling Australia pulled direct support for the Australian development teams with whom the scholarship recipient would have normally. Previously the scholarship recipient was selected by a panel from applications to the foundation, but in 2018 recipient was selected to race as a part of professional team . The Australian national development team itself had its own selection process prior to 2018.\n\nRecipients of the Amy Gillett Scholarship include:\n\nWiggle Amy's Gran Fondo cycling event, which benefits the foundation, is held in September along the Great Ocean Road, between Lorne and Skenes Creek. It is one of the only cycling events in Australia held on a fully closed road.\n\nIn January 2010 the Amy Gillett Bikeway was opened at Oakbank, South Australia. The trail follows a section of the former Mount Pleasant railway line.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263357", "title": "Spot (comics)", "text": "Spot (comics)\n\nThe Spot (Dr. Jonathan Ohnn) is a fictional character, a supervillain appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character has been depicted as an enemy of Spider-Man and Daredevil.\n\nDr. Jonathan Ohnn first appeared unnamed in \"Spectacular Spider-Man\" #97 and became the Spot in the following issue #98. He was created by Al Milgrom and Herb Trimpe.\n\nAs a scientist working for the Kingpin, Dr. Jonathan Ohnn was assigned to reproduce the radiation levels of the superhero Cloak to find a way to artificially mimic his powers. Working late one night, he succeeded creating a solid black circular portal. In doing so, however, the drain on the city's power became so great, a blackout washed over the city, causing the portal to shimmer and destabilize. Fearful of losing a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity, Ohnn stepped into it. The shock of the transition caused him to pass out.\n\nHe awoke floating weightlessly in a dimension which he initially assumed was Cloak's dark dimension. He soon realized however that the power shortage caused the portal to send him to a different dimension, a place of half darkness and half light. A seemingly infinite number of portals surrounded him in this place. Making swimming motions, he managed to find the original portal that brought him there and slipped back through it.\n\nWhen Ohnn emerged back into his lab, his body had undergone a radical transformation. The portals from the other dimension had adhered to his skin, covering him with black spots from head to toe. Realizing the spots were portable space warps, he started to think he might be able to use them to defeat anyone in battle. When Spider-Man and Black Cat arrived to confront Kingpin, he appeared before them and announced himself as the Spot. Spider-Man collapsed on the roof, laughing at the name. The Spot ended up winning that first confrontation and warned the heroes to leave the Kingpin alone. He later lost a second battle against Spider-Man because he was tricked into throwing too many of his spots as weapons and not keeping enough to defend himself with.\n\nSpot later formed a short-lived team with Gibbon, Grizzly, and Kangaroo called the Spider-Man Revenge Squad, which was better known as the Legion of Losers. This team fell apart when Spider-Man carted the Spot and the Kangaroo to jail for bank robbery and Grizzly and Gibbon left the group as they disagreed with their teammates' more ruthless approach.\n\nSometime later, the Spot was captured by the organization called the Gideon Trust and was forced to open a portal to the Negative Zone. Gideon Trust hoped to investigate and exploit the natural resources of the Zone for their own purposes, but were defeated by the Fantastic Four who were trapped there.\n\nThe Spot later helped Tombstone escape from a maximum security prison. As thanks, Tombstone snapped his neck.\n\nDespite this, he reappeared alive months later and arranged a meeting with Slyde. Both were upset at the reports of Hydra capturing or killing lesser-known supervillains. When the Spot arrived, both he and Slyde were quickly captured by a brainwashed Elektra. They were then resurrected by the Hand to join Hydra's army of superhumans and assault the S.H.I.E.L.D. helicarrier, however the Spot was taken out by Wolverine during the attack.\n\nThe Spot returned in \"Civil War: War Crimes\" where he was recruited as part of Hammerhead's supervillain army. However, as Iron Man and S.H.I.E.L.D. forces attacked their forces, it remains unknown if the Spot is currently incarcerated with other villains, somehow escaped, or amongst the casualties of the raid.\n\nThe Spot appeared in \"MODOK's 11\" as part of a team organized by the villain of the same name to steal a weapon/power-source named the Hypernova. In the book, the Spot's intelligence seems to have been reduced to the point that he brags about having once been defeated by Spider-Man. He is showing a self-serving streak and in #3, it was revealed he'd defected to Temugin in return for a larger paycheck. He runs out on the rest of the team - leaving them to die - the instant they get the Hypernova. The Temugin immediately afterward trapped the Spot in the dimension he originally gained his powers from. The Temugin felt he couldn't trust the Spot not to backstab \"him\" like he had MODOK's 11.\n\nIn the \"\" issues of Amazing Spider-Man, the Spot is seen in the \"Bar With No Name\".\n\nThe Spot returns in \"Amazing Spider-Man\". His son had been injured and is now in a coma as a result of a drive-by shooting. In revenge, Spot begins killing members of the Russian Mafia.\n\nDuring the \"Dark Reign\" storyline, Spot is one among many supervillains who joined the Hood's crime syndicate. It is later revealed he is serving as a mole for Mister Negative (a fellow Darkforce-powered villain) under the promise that he will be cured once the Maggia crime families are killed.\n\nDuring the \"Origin of the Species\" storyline, Spot is among the supervillains invited by Doctor Octopus to join his supervillain team where he promises each of them a reward in exchange that they secure some specific items for him. Ever since Lily Hollister's baby was stolen by the Chameleon, Spider-Man had been going on a rampage against any villains involved. The police ended up getting a web ball containing Spot, Diablo, and Overdrive.\n\nLater, Spot worked with a man to kidnap the little girl of a mafia family during the wedding of her family and another mafia family, but the abduction was foiled by Daredevil. Spot was then captured and had his powers replicated by Coyote, a minion of an unknown figure trying to bring Daredevil down.\n\nBoomerang and Owl hire Spot onto the Sinister Sixteen, assembled to distract the Chameleon's forces while Boomerang steals from him.\n\nSpot was among the villains seen at the Bar with No Name when Black Cat tried to recruit a group of villains. They declined because of her affiliation to Electro. After Black Cat was thwarted by Spider-Man and Silk, Spot and the other criminals at the Bar with No Name joined her army when they wanted her to lead them.\n\nAfter helping the Ringer escape from prison, the Spot battled White Rabbit during a gang war, then attacked a museum, where he was incapacitated by Spider-Man and Spider-Man 2099.\n\nAs part of the 2016 \"Marvel NOW!\", Spot kidnapped Jessica Jones by punching her to an unknown van.\n\nSpot later appeared as a member of the Sinister Six that is led by Aaron Davis in a recolored version of the Iron Spider armor. He accompanied the group in their mission to steal a decommissioned S.H.I.E.L.D. Helicarrier.\n\nDuring the \"Infinity Wars\" storyline, Spot is among the villains that accompany Turk Barrett to his meeting with the Infinity Watch at Central Park.\n\nDuring the \"Hunted\" storyline, Spot was seen as a patron at the Pop-Up with No Name.\n\nUsing his space warps, the Spot can instantly move himself or any part of his body from one area to another over a theoretically unlimited distance via another dimension nicknamed \"Spotworld.\"\n\nThis connection with Spotworld probably explains the many deaths he has suffered and subsequent revivals with no explanation.\n\nThe Spot can control and manipulate the warps to almost any degree he wishes. He can expand or shrink them to any size, or he can join together multiple spots to form one larger warp. The spots are unaffected by gravity and can be placed against a surface or left suspended in mid-air. He can also designate which spots will lead to the spot dimension from those that will instantly lead to another location in this dimension. He can create new spots, or close them entirely by retreating into his dimension and pulling the warp in behind him (making a quiet \"poit\" sound).\n\nBy concentrating, he used to be able to revert to his human appearance. When doing this, the spots merged to form one large black void in his chest, though this was easily covered with a shirt.\n\nHis preferred method of attack is to surround his opponent with numerous spots, allowing him to punch or kick them from unexpected angles across great distances. This proved very effective against Spider-Man as his spider-sense was unable to detect incoming attacks from another dimension, effectively negating this ability (and although the Spot's lack of super-strength meant that his punches did not actually do much damage even when they did connect, the cumulative effect could prove dangerous in an extended fight). The same phenomenon was true when Spot flung Spider-Man through a warp and he reappeared in this dimension too close to a wall to dodge. However, on Daredevil, who also has superhuman senses, this trick does not work, as his Radar Sense could easily detect the teleportation energy in the Spot's body, making it simple for him to tell where the Spot was going to attack from. The Spot can also move the spots on his body to protect himself from physical attack by positioning one in the path of a punch or kick, causing the attack to pass harmlessly through a warp.\n\nIn the comic \"\", Dr. Jonathan Ohnn (shown in his Spot form) appears in the S.H.I.E.L.D. Helicarrier with the other heroes who survived the Zombie plague.\n\nThe \"Ultimate\" version of the Spot appeared in Ultimate Spider-Man #111. Not much is known about him, except that his name is Frank, and he worked for Roxxon Industries, where an accident gave him his powers. He has similar powers to his 616 counterpart, being able to use the \"spots\" on his body to attack his opponent from long range. After a fight with Spider-Man, he is apprehended. The main difference in appearance between the Ultimate version and his 616-counterpart is that his spots flow around his body like a lava lamp instead of staying put. From an illustrator's point of view he is not drawn with a Dalmatian-like pattern, but is instead penciled as a white figure and covered in black ink blots when the page is inked.\n\nIn \"\" (an alternate reality first shown in the \"Secret Wars\" storyline where Peter and Mary Jane's marriage never ended), the Spot is one of the few beings with natural powers left free after the powerful Regent attempted to capture all powered beings to absorb their abilities for himself as part of a plan to challenge God Emperor Doom. Although Spot escaped, he apparently left parts of himself behind with the result that his body has obvious 'gaps' where his holes once were, and each time he uses one it takes away more of what remains of his body. Despite this, he 'sacrifices' one hole to save Spider-Man's family when they are attacked by the Sinister Six, and hides another in the Sandman so that the resistance can attack Regent directly.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263372", "title": "Joran van der Sloot", "text": "Joran van der Sloot\n\nJoran Andreas Petrus van der Sloot (; born 6 August 1987) is a Dutch convicted murderer who killed Stephany Flores Ramírez in Lima, Peru in 2010. He is also the prime suspect in the disappearance of Natalee Holloway in 2005.\n\nAfter Flores' murder on 30 May 2010—five years to the day after Holloway's disappearance—Van der Sloot fled to Chile, where he was arrested and extradited back to Peru for questioning regarding the murder. On 7 June 2010, he confessed to bludgeoning Ramírez. He later tried to formally retract his confession, claiming that he had been intimidated by the Peruvian police and framed by the FBI. A Peruvian judge ruled on 25 June 2010 that the confession was valid, and on 13 January 2012, Van der Sloot was sentenced to 28 years' imprisonment for Flores' murder.\n\nWhile living in Aruba five years earlier, Van der Sloot had been the prime suspect in the disappearance of eighteen-year-old American woman Natalee Holloway, who disappeared in Aruba on 30 May 2005. He was indicted by a federal grand jury in the U.S. for wire fraud and extortion related to Holloway's whereabouts. Holloway's disappearance remains unsolved.\n\nThe Holloway and Flores cases both attracted widespread media attention; \"Time\" magazine declared Van der Sloot's arrest the top crime story of 2010. Van der Sloot was the subject of international news coverage from prison, leading to controversies that resulted in the investigation and suspension of several Peruvian officials.\n\nJoran van der Sloot was born in Arnhem in the Netherlands as one of three sons of Paulus van der Sloot (1952–2010), a lawyer, and Anita van der Sloot-Hugen, an art teacher. In 1990 his family moved from Arnhem to Aruba, where he was an honor student at the International School of Aruba. He was considered a star soccer and tennis athlete at the school. Van der Sloot competed in doubles tennis with his father at the Moët et Chandon Anniversary Cup in 2005 and hoped to play for Saint Leo University near Tampa, Florida. Van der Sloot's mother said he had a problem with lying and had a tendency to sneak out of the house at night to go to casinos.\n\nVan der Sloot (then age 17), along with the Kalpoe brothers, Deepak (then age 21) and Satish (then age 18), was arrested on 9 June 2005, as a suspect in the 30 May 2005 disappearance of an 18-year-old American woman, Natalee Holloway, who was declared legally dead six years after she disappeared. The Kalpoes were released from custody on 4 July, but were re-arrested on 26 August on suspicion of rape and murder, while Van der Sloot remained in custody. All three suspects were released on 3 September because of a lack of evidence.\n\nAfter his release, Van der Sloot was required to stay within Dutch territory pending the results of the investigation. On 5 September 2005, he returned to the Netherlands to study international business management at the HAN University of Applied Sciences. On 14 September, a higher court removed the travel restrictions. Gerold G. Dompig, former deputy commissioner of the Aruba Police Force, stated that the initial arrests were made prematurely under pressure from Holloway's family. Dompig charged that the family sidetracked the investigation by making it difficult for the police to collect evidence to solve the case.\n\nOn 26 September 2005, Van der Sloot told the American television show \"A Current Affair\" that neither he nor the Kalpoe brothers had sex with Natalee, but he admitted that they initially agreed to lie to the authorities. He said that they first told police that Holloway was dropped off alone at her hotel, while he later said that he was dropped off with her at the beach. He stated that he left Holloway alone at the beach at her request and that he regretted it.\n\nOn 6 February 2006, on ABC's \"Good Morning America\", Van der Sloot's parents stated that their son was unfairly singled out and that the investigation left them devastated. Later that month, while Van der Sloot and his father were in New York City for an interview with ABC's \"Primetime\", they were served with a lawsuit filed by Natalee's parents, Beth and Dave Holloway, alleging personal injury; the case was dismissed on jurisdictional grounds that August.\n\nIn April 2007, \"De zaak Natalee Holloway\" (\"The Case of Natalee Holloway\"), a book written in Dutch by Van der Sloot and reporter Zvezdana Vukojevic, was published by Sijthoff in the Netherlands. Van der Sloot started writing the book while attending business classes in Arnhem. He stated in the introduction, \"I see this book as my opportunity to be open and honest about everything that happened, for anyone who wants to read it.\"\n\nOn 27 April 2007, a new search involving some twenty investigators was launched at Van der Sloot's parents' home in Aruba. Dutch authorities searched the yard and surrounding area, using shovels and thin metal rods to penetrate the dirt. A spokesman for the prosecutor's office, Vivian van der Biezen, stated \"The investigation has never stopped and the Dutch authorities are completely reviewing the case for new indications\". A statement released directly from the prosecutor's office stated: \"The team has indications that justify a more thorough search.\" Investigators did not comment on what prompted the new search, except that it was not related to Van der Sloot's book.\n\nOn 21 November 2007, Van der Sloot and the Kalpoe brothers were re-arrested in Arnhem and Aruba for \"suspicion of involvement in voluntary manslaughter and causing serious bodily harm that resulted in the death of Natalee Holloway\" because of what the Aruba prosecutor's office stated was \"new incriminating evidence\" related to the disappearance of Holloway. Van der Sloot was returned to Aruba on 23 November, and a court hearing on 26 November ruled to continue his detention for eight days. The Kalpoe brothers were released on 1 December. Van der Sloot was ordered released on 7 December, and he was released without charge the same day.\n\nOn 11 January 2008, after being challenged on the Dutch late-night talk show \"Pauw & Witteman\" by crime reporter Peter R. de Vries, Van der Sloot threw a glass of red wine into De Vries' face. On 3 February, an undercover video made by De Vries aired on Dutch television, purporting to show Van der Sloot smoking marijuana and admitting to being present during Holloway's death. The show was watched by 7 million viewers in the Netherlands and was the most popular non-sports program in Dutch television history.\n\nPatrick van der Eem, working undercover for De Vries, had befriended Van der Sloot, who was unaware that he was being taped when he said that Holloway had suffered some kind of seizure while having sex on the beach. After failing to revive her, Van der Sloot said that he summoned a friend named Daury. The two men neither phoned for medical help nor checked Natalee to determine if she might still be alive. Then, according to Van der Sloot, Daury volunteered to load her on a boat, and he dumped Natalee's body into the sea. The prosecutor in Aruba determined the video was admissible, but the evidence was deemed \"insufficient\" to warrant Van der Sloot's, or anyone's, arrest. Although the taped confession appeared damning, Van der Sloot argued that he was lying to impress Van der Eem, who he believed was a drug dealer.\n\nOn 22 September 2008, in New York City, De Vries accepted an International Emmy Award in Current Affairs for his coverage while accompanied by Beth Holloway. Under pressure of the attention from the program, Van der Sloot voluntarily checked into a psychiatric clinic before departing for Thailand. He moved to Muang Ake, a suburb of Bangkok, to study business at Rangsit University, but dropped out and bought Sawadee Cup, a restaurant next to the campus that served sandwiches and pizza.\n\nIn November 2008, De Vries aired undercover footage of Van der Sloot making preparations for the apparent sex trafficking of Thai women in Bangkok. De Vries claimed that Van der Sloot was making $13,000 for every woman sold into prostitution in the Netherlands. Van der Sloot used the alias \"Murphy Jenkins\" to avoid Thai authorities. Peruvian Minister of Justice Aurelio Pastor said that Thailand was pursuing criminal charges against Van der Sloot. According to \"The National Enquirer\", he is being investigated for his involvement in the disappearance of young women he may have recruited for a Thai sex slave gang while posing as a production consultant for a modeling agency that would send them to Europe.\n\nVan der Sloot was portrayed by actor Jacques Strydom in the Lifetime television film \"Natalee Holloway\" (2009), which was based on the bestselling book \"Loving Natalee: A Mother's Testament of Hope and Faith\" (2007) by Beth Holloway. The movie brought in the highest television ratings in Lifetime's 11-year history at the time. Van der Sloot himself watched the film one evening in 2010, according to his friend John Ludwick, and said that some parts were true while others were not. The film was followed by a sequel, \"Justice for Natalee Holloway\" (2011), in which Van der Sloot was played by actor Stephen Amell.\n\nIn August 2009, Van der Sloot was spotted in Macau at the Asia Pacific Poker Tour. He won over US$12,000 that year in an online poker tournament. He described himself on his YouTube page as \"a professional poker player\" and cited Barry Greenstein's poker strategy guide, \"Ace on the River\", as his favorite book. In early 2010, Van der Sloot sold his restaurant business and returned to Aruba after the death of his father Paulus.\n\nPaulus (Paul) van der Sloot was arrested on 22 June 2005, for questioning in Holloway's disappearance. He was ordered released on 26 June after three days of questioning. According to Aruba's chief prosecutor, one of the Kalpoe brothers told investigators that Paulus, who at the time was training to be a judge, advised that without a body, the police would have no case. Beth Holloway pursued Van der Sloot's parents in the ensuing media circus on Aruba. She said that Paulus acknowledged that they could not control their son and had sent him to a psychiatrist.\n\nOn 10 November 2005, Paulus won an unjust detention action against the Aruban government, clearing him as a suspect and allowing him to retain his government contract. The elder Van der Sloot then brought a second action, seeking monetary damages for himself and his family because of his false arrest. The action was initially successful, but the award of 40,000 Aruban florins (US$22,300) was reversed on appeal. The family's finances were depleted by the legal expenses. In January 2007, Paulus found work as a managing partner at the law firm that represented him.\n\nOn 24 November 2008, Fox News' \"On the Record\" aired an interview with Joran Van der Sloot in which he said that he sold Holloway into sexual slavery, receiving money both when Holloway was taken, and later on to keep quiet. He also alleged that he paid the Kalpoe brothers for their assistance, and that his father Paulus paid off two police officers who had learned that Holloway was taken to Venezuela. Van der Sloot later retracted the statements made in the interview. The show also aired part of an audio recording provided by Van der Sloot, which he alleged is a phone conversation between him and Paulus, in which Paulus displays knowledge of his son's purported involvement in human trafficking. According to Mos, the voice heard on the recording was not that of Paulus van der Sloot. The Dutch newspaper \"De Telegraaf\" reported that the \"father's\" voice is almost certainly that of Joran himself, trying to speak in a lower tone.\n\nOn 8 January 2010, Paulus cancelled his partnership at the law firm where he had been working. On 10 February 2010, he died of a heart attack at the age of 57 while playing tennis in Aruba. Van der Sloot returned to Aruba soon afterward and turned to gambling. His mother, Anita, said that Van der Sloot had severe mental problems and blamed himself for his father's death. He left before she could have him psychiatrically committed, leaving a note: \"I'm gone, do not worry.\"\n\nAround 29 March 2010, Van der Sloot allegedly contacted John Q. Kelly, Beth Holloway's legal representative, with an offer to reveal the location of Natalee's body and the circumstances surrounding her death for an advance of $25,000 against a total of $250,000. Kelly said that he secretly went to Aruba in April to meet with Van der Sloot, who was desperate for money, and gave him $100. Kelly notified the FBI, which set up a sting operation with the Aruban authorities.\n\nOn 10 May, Van der Sloot allegedly accepted the amount of $15,000 by wire transfer to his account in the Netherlands, following a cash payment of $10,000 that was videotaped by undercover investigators in Aruba. In exchange, Van der Sloot told Kelly that his father buried Holloway's remains in the foundation of a house. Authorities determined that this information was false, because the house had not yet been built at the time of Holloway's disappearance. Van der Sloot later e-mailed Kelly that he lied about the house. Holloway was shocked that the FBI did not promptly file extortion charges against Van der Sloot, allowing him to leave freely with the money to Bogotá, Colombia, on his way to Lima, Peru. The FBI and the office of the U.S. Attorney contended that the case had not yet been sufficiently developed.\n\nOn 3 June 2010, the U.S. District Court of Northern Alabama charged Van der Sloot with extortion and wire fraud. U.S. Attorney Joyce White Vance issued an arrest warrant through Interpol to have Van der Sloot prosecuted in the United States. On 4 June, at the request of the U.S. Justice Department, Dutch authorities raided and confiscated items from two homes in the Netherlands, one of them belonging to reporter Jaap Amesz, who had previously interviewed Van der Sloot and claimed knowledge of his criminal activities. Aruban investigators used information gathered from the extortion case to launch a new search at a beach, but no new evidence was found. Aruba's Solicitor-General said they would not seek Van der Sloot's extradition to Aruba. On 30 June, a federal grand jury formally indicted Van der Sloot of the two charges. The indictment filed with the U.S. District Court seeks the forfeiture of the $25,100 that had been paid to Van der Sloot.\n\nIn an interview published by \"De Telegraaf\" on 6 September 2010, Van der Sloot admitted to the extortion plot, stating: \"I wanted to get back at Natalee's family. Her parents have been making my life tough for five years.\" Van der Sloot's attorney said that his client was not paid for the interview and suggested that \"maybe there were some mistakes in the translation.\"\n\nOn 9 March 2014, the Peruvian government announced that Van der Sloot would face extradition to the United States in the year 2038 to face charges of extortion and wire fraud, after completion of his 28-year sentence in Peru for the murder of Stephany Tatiana Flores Ramírez (see below). In February 2016, an undercover reporter filmed Van der Sloot confessing to Natalee Holloway's murder. The film shows Van der Sloot, in Dutch, laughing over how he never told the truth about the whole event and that he did in fact kill Natalee. His Peruvian wife is also present during this conversation.\n\nOn 30 May 2010—the fifth anniversary of Holloway's disappearance—Stephany Tatiana Flores Ramírez, 21, died at the Hotel TAC, in the Miraflores District of Lima, Peru. On 2 June, a hotel employee found her beaten body in Room 309, which had been registered in Van der Sloot's name. He had departed from the hotel without returning the room key and left the television running. A tennis racquet, identified by the coroner as a possible homicide weapon, was recovered from the room. A hotel guest and an employee came forward to say they saw Van der Sloot and the victim entering the hotel room together, and the police obtained video of the two playing cards at the same table the night before at the Atlantic City Casino in Lima. Van der Sloot had entered Peru via Colombia on 14 May 2010 to attend the Latin American Poker Tour.\nFlores was a business student who was less than a year from graduation at the University of Lima. She was the daughter of Ricardo Flores, a former president of the Peruvian Automobile Club and winner of the \"Caminos del Inca\" rally in 1991. A prominent businessman and entertainment organizer, he ran for vice president in 2001 and for president five years later on fringe tickets.\n\nRicardo Flores said that police found date rape drugs in his daughter's car, parked about 50 blocks from the hotel where she died. Her jewelry, money, identification and credit cards were missing, including about $1,000 her father had given her to purchase a laptop, and over $10,000 she had won earlier at the casino. Flores reportedly kept this money in her car, but a police search found no money in it.\n\nAfter Flores' family reported her missing, police retrieved the hotel surveillance tape and obtained Van der Sloot's name and national identification number. Her brother's wife discovered Van der Sloot's background in a Google search about an hour before her body was found.\n\nPeruvian officials named Van der Sloot as the lone suspect in the homicide investigation. Interpol issued an international arrest warrant for Van der Sloot, believing that he had fled the country to Chile, possibly intending to return to Aruba through Argentina. Van der Sloot was sighted entering Chile via the Chacalluta border crossing, north of Arica, on 31 May 2010. His ex-girlfriend, Melody Granadillo, said that Van der Sloot sent her a text message asking for money to buy a ticket back to Aruba.\n\nOn 3 June, Van der Sloot was arrested near Curacaví by the Investigations Police of Chile while traveling in a rented taxi on Highway 68 between the coastal city of Viña del Mar and the capital of Santiago. He was found with a laptop, foreign currency, a business card case, detailed charts of ocean currents around Lima, and bloody clothes. His phone's SIM card was missing, which made mobile phone tracking of his location impossible. He told Chilean police that unidentified armed robbers hid in the hotel room and killed Flores when she disobeyed their order to be quiet. Van der Sloot's Dutch attorney claimed that his client was on his way to Santiago to turn himself in. He was subsequently expelled and transported by Chilean police in a Cessna 310 back to Arica to be handed over to Peruvian authorities at the Chacalluta border crossing on 4 June.\n\nVan der Sloot arrived at Lima police headquarters on 5 June, where he was interrogated about the Flores murder while represented by attorney Luz Maria Romero Chinchay. The Dutch embassy provided a translator for his defense. He was held in a seventh floor cell and permitted to contact his mother. Van der Sloot was placed on suicide watch by guards after it was reported that he deliberately hit his head against a wall. On 10 June, he was moved to a cell at the prosecutor's office in central Lima.\n\nSurveillance video from the Atlantic City Casino recorded Flores winning $10,000 at a baccarat table area on 25 May 2010, while accompanied by a male friend who was not Van der Sloot. According to casino spokesperson Luis Laos, she also won $237 playing poker on 29 May and it was common for people to know the identities of big winners. Laos stated that Van der Sloot did not win any money that night. At 3:00 a.m. on 30 May, Flores was recorded entering the casino alone and walking to a poker table where Van der Sloot was sitting. Van der Sloot had not registered for the Latin American Poker Tour. The deadline to pay the $2,700 entry fee for the 2 June event at the casino was 30 May.\n\nPolice released hotel security video showing Van der Sloot and Flores entering the Hotel TAC together at about 5:00 a.m. on 30 May. At about 8:10 a.m., he is shown walking across the street to a supermarket and returning with bread and two cups of coffee. Around 8:45 a.m., he is seen leaving the hotel alone with his bags.\n\nAn autopsy ruled that Flores did not have sexual intercourse before her death and that she was not under the influence of enough alcohol to prevent her from resisting an attack. She suffered blunt-force trauma to her head, which caused a brain hemorrhage, cranial fracture, and broken neck. She also suffered significant injuries to her face and showed signs of asphyxiation, according to court documents. Flores tested positive for the presence of amphetamines. The lab report does not indicate whether the victim took the drugs willingly or unknowingly.\n\nThe stains on Van der Sloot's clothes matched Flores' blood type. Blood was also found on the floor, hallway, and mattress in the hotel room. Police stated that DNA tests would be conducted on the clothes, skin found under the victim's fingernails, and the previously recovered tennis racquet. Ricardo Flores stated in interviews that his daughter's body needed to be exhumed to gather the fingernail DNA evidence, and that her body had not been cremated for this reason.\n\nOn 14 March 2011, the National Police of Peru provided a copy of the hard disk drive from Van der Sloot's laptop computer to the FBI. Colonel Oscar González, of the high tech division of the Peruvian police, stated that the U.S. federal investigation was interested in information related to Holloway's disappearance and the alleged extortion of her family. Peruvian detectives determined that the laptop accessed information about the Holloway case before Flores arrived in Van der Sloot's hotel room; it was then used to visit two poker websites at around the time Flores was present in the room. According to a police dossier, the laptop was later used to search Google for the subjects: \"relationship between the Peruvian and Chilean police\", \"Chilean border pass\", \"buses in Chile\", and \"countries that do not extradite in Latin America.\"\n\nOn 7 June 2010, Van der Sloot reportedly confessed to killing Flores, after hours of interrogation. He initially proclaimed his innocence. According to an expert in Peruvian law, the confession fit a defense strategy of trying to get the charge reduced to manslaughter, which is punishable by 6 to 20 years in prison, while a conviction for murder could result in up to 35 years' imprisonment. The prosecution was seeking a sentence of 30 years. Peru does not issue life sentences in standard cases of murder and has abolished capital punishment in all but exceptional circumstances, such as crimes committed under military law. A life sentence can be issued for a murder committed during the commission of a robbery. Peruvian president Alan García Pérez used the case to seek the reinstatement of the death penalty for murder.\n\nIn his written confession released by Peruvian police, Van der Sloot recounted that he briefly left the hotel to get some coffee and bread, and returned to find Flores using his laptop computer without his permission. A police source stated that she may have found information linking him to the disappearance of Holloway. An altercation allegedly began, and she attempted to escape. According to the aforementioned written confession released by Peruvian authorities, Van der Sloot stated, \"I did not want to do it. The girl intruded into my private life ... she didn't have any right. I went to her and I hit her. She was scared, we argued and she tried to escape. I grabbed her by the neck and hit her.\" Van der Sloot reportedly stated that he was stoned on marijuana at the time. A detective linked to the case said that Van der Sloot considered getting rid of the body in a suitcase, but decided against it because he would have been stopped at the front desk. He then reportedly drank espresso and took amphetamines to counter fatigue before fleeing.\n\nCriminal police chief Cesar Guardia said Van der Sloot \"let slip that he knew the place\" where Holloway's body is buried. Guardia stated that the interrogation was limited to their case in Peru, which he considered \"practically closed\", and that questions about Holloway's disappearance were avoided. Guardia said that the confession contains lies because Van der Sloot's \"toxicological report shows no signs that he had ingested any kind of drug.\" Felonies committed under the influence of drugs can gain leniency in Peruvian courts. Guardia said that the motive for the crime was robbery. Van der Sloot reportedly offered a different motive for killing Flores, stating that he \"feared that she would go to the police\". On 14 June, Peruvian authorities released written transcripts of Van der Sloot's alleged confession. His mother Anita expressed concern that her son's confession may have been coerced. According to Van der Sloot's former attorney Luz Maria Romero Chinchay, his mother advised him not to make any statements nor sign anything, but it was too late.\n\nVan der Sloot later retracted this confession in a prison cell interview with \"De Telegraaf\", claiming that he had been coerced and \"tricked\" by police with a promise to be transferred to the Netherlands. He stated that at the time he signed the confession documents, he did not understand the content as it was in Spanish. He was quoted: \"In my blind panic, I signed everything, but didn't even know what it said.\" Van der Sloot said that he was lured to Peru and framed by another gambler, named Elton Garcia, who he claimed was working undercover for the FBI. Van der Sloot's attorney Maximo Alonso Altez Navarro stated his intention to resign because the case \"created many problems\" for him. He had been threatened and harassed for taking the case, and Van der Sloot's family was unable to afford his legal expenses. However, Navarro stayed on to file a motion to void the confession on the grounds that his client was not properly represented during his interrogation. On 25 June, Superior Court Judge Wilder Casique Alvizuri rejected the motion, noting that Van der Sloot was represented by a state-appointed lawyer and provided a translator by the Dutch embassy. Navarro said that Van der Sloot was as \"depressed\" as anyone in prison would be.\n\nOn 11 June 2010, Lima Superior Court Judge Juan Buendia ordered Van der Sloot held on charges of first-degree murder and robbery, determining that he acted with \"ferocity and great cruelty\". Under Peruvian law, Van der Sloot was not eligible to be released on bail, and would be tried by a panel of three judges rather than a jury. A simple majority of the three was required for conviction. Police transported Van der Sloot on the same day from Lima's Palace of Justice in an armored truck, while angry onlookers yelled and threw rotten lettuce. He was taken to the Miguel Castro Castro maximum security prison and placed in a cell near the prison director's office for his own safety. He was registered as inmate #326390 and separated from the general prison population under 24-hour guard, in a high-security cell block housing only one other inmate. Van der Sloot reportedly offered to disclose the location of Holloway's body in exchange for transfer to an Aruban prison because of fear for his life. President Pérez said that Van der Sloot would have to stand trial for the homicide before any extradition request would be considered. He also stated that Van der Sloot will serve his prison sentence in Peru. There is no treaty for the transfer of prisoners between Peru and the Netherlands.\n\nOn 15 June, Aruban and Peruvian authorities announced that they would cooperate in their respective cases involving Van der Sloot. Aruban investigators expected to be able to interview Van der Sloot in Peru in August, after Peruvian authorities had completed their investigation. At his first formal hearing within the on-site courtroom of Miguel Castro Castro prison on 21 June, Van der Sloot refused to discuss the case with Judge Carlos Morales Cordova, claiming that his rights and due process were violated. Van der Sloot filed a complaint with the National Police of Peru, accusing chief detective Miguel Angel Canlla Ore of misconduct. He also claimed that his laptop had been improperly searched. Van der Sloot's defense counsel filed a motion of \"habeas corpus\" disputing the legality of his detention and to nullify statements he gave to police, but the motion was declared \"unfounded\" by Superior Court Judge Wilder Casique Alvizuri on 25 June. The judge upheld all three depositions given by Van der Sloot to police and stated that the defendant's laptop was sealed by the court. Navarro vowed to appeal all the way to the Supreme Court of Peru and the Inter-American Court of Human Rights with a legal strategy to \"paralyze the process\". The Peruvian court said that this would not hold up the case against Van der Sloot.\n\nNavarro stated that he filed suit against Chinchay, who first represented Van der Sloot during his interrogation, charging her with abuse of authority, conspiracy to commit a crime, and misrepresentation because he did not find her name on the list of public defenders from Peru's Ministry of Justice. Navarro also filed a complaint against Van der Sloot's translator, insisting that he misrepresented himself as an official translator of the Dutch embassy. Chinchay rejected the claims against her, stating that Van der Sloot had selected her as a private attorney after declining another defense attorney appointed by the state. She contradicted his claims that he did not understand what he was signing by stating that she was able to speak with him in perfect Spanish. She said that Van der Sloot was interested in talking about the Holloway case, thinking that it might get him extradited to Aruba. Chinchay also said that when she told Van der Sloot that she noticed he was signing various documents with very different signatures, he signaled for her to be quiet.\n\nNavarro stated, on 21 August 2010, that the case was stagnating because an official interpreter was unable to be found for the case in Peru. The Peruvian association of translators and interpreters and the Dutch embassy both separately stated at the time that they have been unable to locate one to officially translate Spanish into Dutch. Unlike Aruba and the United States, Peru does not guarantee the right to a speedy trial. On 6 September, a Peruvian appeals court voted 2 to 1 to reject Van der Sloot's motion that he is being unlawfully held. Because 3 votes are required for a decision, if a fourth judge voted in Van der Sloot's favor, a fifth judge would be required to break the tie. Peruvian statutes permit a suspect to be detained for up to 18 months for interrogation, though Navarro expressed skepticism that law enforcement officers would do so with his client.\n\nIn February 2011, Navarro filed a \"violent emotion\" defense with the court, arguing that Van der Sloot had entered into a state of temporary insanity because Flores found out about his connection to Holloway from his laptop computer. Under Peruvian law, if the judge accepts this crime of passion argument, the sentence for such a plea could be reduced to only 3 to 5 years; Navarro noted that this could allow Van der Sloot to be eligible for parole in as soon as 20 months. Oscar González of the Peruvian police stated that an examination of Van der Sloot's laptop determined that Flores did not access such information while she was in the hotel room with him.\n\nOn 11 January 2012, Van der Sloot pleaded guilty to the \"qualified murder\" and simple robbery of Flores. He was convicted and sentenced to 28 years' imprisonment for the murder on 13 January, and, he must pay $75,000 to the Flores family. Hours after learning of the sentence, Van der Sloot was transferred to a maximum security prison, Piedras Gordas, located north of Lima. He is currently expected to be released on 10 June 2038.\n\nIn August 2014, Van der Sloot was transferred to Challapalca prison in the mountainous South of Peru, where conditions are harsh due to the location's altitude. Two months later, a Dutch online news service claimed that Van der Sloot was stabbed and critically injured by fellow prisoners in Peru. Van der Sloot's wife's claim of a stabbing is contested by Peruvian authorities.\n\nPublic outcry in Peru has been fueled by local media, which labeled Van der Sloot a \"monster,\" \"serial killer,\" and \"psychopath.\" The coverage of this controversy highlighted cases of other women dying at the hands of foreigners. Peruvian and Colombian newspapers published articles about the investigation of the disappearance of two young women who frequented casinos during Van der Sloot's stay in at least two Bogotá hotels from 6 to 14 May 2010, prior to entering Peru. However, the Administrative Department of Security of Colombia do not consider Van der Sloot a suspect as they believe his presence in Bogotá was merely in transit to Peru. Dutch daily newspaper \"Trouw\" warned that the overwhelming pressure on authorities of Van der Sloot's presumed guilt risked turning the case into a show trial. The Dutch consulate told Peruvian authorities that it was concerned how Van der Sloot was being treated and presented to the media.\n\nIn December 2010, \"Time\" magazine named Van der Sloot's arrest the most notable criminal event of the year, ahead of the Belgian love triangle skydiving murder case, the Chinese school attacks and the Elizabeth Smart kidnapping trial. ABC News listed the coverage of Van der Sloot's murder confession by \"Good Morning America\" among the most read stories from its website in 2010. WIAT-TV, the CBS affiliate in Birmingham, Alabama, near Holloway's hometown, named the criminal charges filed against Van der Sloot in 2010 among the top ten stories of the year. Radio Netherlands Worldwide identified him as one of the most talked about Dutch people of the year.\n\nVan der Sloot's cell became the target of a media circus, with reporters vying to gain exclusive access and report about his prison surroundings. Since his incarceration, he has only consented to interviews to \"De Telegraaf\", in which he admitted to extorting the Holloway family and said that he received a number of marriage proposals in his cell, including one from a woman who wanted to have his child. Van der Sloot reportedly receives fan mail from around the world, though mostly from women residing in the United States and the Netherlands. According to sources within the prison, Van der Sloot sought $1 million in exchange for an on-camera interview.\n\nThe Office of Internal Affairs of the National Penitentiary Institute of Peru began administrative and disciplinary action on 23 August 2010, when Peruvian network América Televisión aired a picture of Van der Sloot with three other inmates that had been taken with official photographic equipment at Miguel Castro Castro prison. The photo included Van der Sloot casually posing with Colombian hitman Hugo Trujillo Ospina and American murderer William Trickett Smith II. Van der Sloot and Smith have been referred to by local media as \"the foreigners accused of the most talked-about assassinations in our country.\"\n\nOn 11 September 2010, Beth Holloway and De Vries traveled to Peru with a Dutch television crew to visit the prison. According to Navarro, his client was taken to meet them \"practically by force.\" Navarro stated that the meeting with Holloway took \"less than one minute.\" Holloway said that she told Van der Sloot that she had \"no hate in her soul\" for him and asked about her daughter's disappearance, to which Van der Sloot responded he could not speak to her without his lawyer present and handed her Navarro's business card. However, Holloway also stated in interviews about the encounter, \"I've hated him for five years. I wanted to peel his skin off.\" According to Navarro, Holloway was \"snuck\" into the prison without identifying to the Dutch TV crew who she was. A prison spokesperson stated that Holloway's name was not found in the visitor registry. Holloway and the crew were removed from the prison, reportedly after a hidden camera was discovered by the guards. Representatives for Holloway and De Vries denied that a hidden camera was involved or that anything was seized. Miguel Castro Castro prison warden Alex Samamé Peña was suspended after video segments of the confrontation between Holloway's mother and Van der Sloot later began airing on Dutch network SBS6.\n\nIn October 2010, América Televisión broadcast video of a transaction for marijuana within the prison that was conducted by a shirtless man addressed as \"gringo Van der Sloot\". Navarro said that the situation was \"staged\" and asked the National Penitentiary Institute to investigate how it was leaked. Prison spokesperson Bruno Guzman said that Van der Sloot had been painting his cell \"to improve his conditions\" and the incident was being investigated.\n\nVan der Sloot's mother, Anita, stated in a Dutch interview that her son could have killed Flores and that she will not visit him at the prison. She said in another interview that she hopes to talk to the family of the victim and apologize to them.\n\nIn February 2011, Navarro protested a decision by prison officials to deny Radio Netherlands worldwide permission for a subsequent interview with Van der Sloot. Navarro claimed that the ruling was influenced by upcoming general elections.\n\nOn 5 July 2011, St. Martin's Press published \"Portrait of a Monster: Joran van der Sloot, a Murder in Peru, and the Natalee Holloway Mystery\" by Lisa Pulitzer and Cole Thompson.\n\nOn July 4, 2014, Van der Sloot married a Peruvian woman named Leidy Figueroa, whom he met while she was selling goods inside the prison. She was seven months pregnant with his child at the time.\nOn September 28, 2014, Figueroa gave birth in Peru.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263374", "title": "Alan Hantman", "text": "Alan Hantman\n\nAlan M. Hantman, FAIA (born October 13, 1942) is an American architect who served as the 10th Architect of the Capitol from February 1997 until February 2007. As Architect of the Capitol, he was responsible to the United States Congress for the maintenance, operation, development, and preservation of the United States Capitol Complex. \n\nDuring the week of July 24, 2006, Hantman informed the House and Senate leadership that he would not seek a second ten-year term. Upon Hantman's retirement on February 2, 2007, the Chief Operating Officer of the Architect of the Capitol, Stephen T. Ayers, became the Acting Architect of the Capitol, and was subsequently confirmed to that post in his own right.\n\nHantman graduated from the City College of New York with a bachelor's degree in architecture and earned a master's degree in urban planning from the City University of New York Graduate Center. He is a fellow of the American Institute of Architects, is certified by the National Council of Architectural Registration Boards, and is currently licensed in the state of New York. \nPrior to his appointment he was Vice President of Facilities Planning and Architecture for the Rockefeller Center Management Corporation of New York City for 10 years and then served as their consultant. He received the Sidney L. Strauss Award from the New York Society of Architects for his work at the Center.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263382", "title": "Schönholzerswilen", "text": "Schönholzerswilen\n\nSchönholzerswilen is a municipality in the district of Münchwilen in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.\n\nSchönholzerswilen is probably first mentioned in 857 as \"Wichrammeswilare\". In 1216 it was mentioned as \"Wilær\" and in 1693 it was mentioned as \"Schönholtzerß Wÿlen\". Between 1803 and 1964, the \"Ortsgemeinden\" of Schönholzerswilen and Toos formed the \"Munizipalgemeinde\" of Schönholzerswilen. In 1964 both communities merged to form the political municipality of Schönholzerswilen.\n\nNumerous neolithic objects, including stone axes and neolithic grave mounds, indicate that the area was inhabited anciently. Additionally, Roman era coins have been discovered in the municipality. Very little is known about the village in the Middle Ages, except for several brief entries in historic records. In 1439 the Abbey of St. Gallen bought the low court rights in the village from Ulrich von St. Johann. The Abbey combined the village of Schönholzerswilen along with Heiligkreuz, Wuppenau and half of Toos to form a single court. Many of the surrounding farm houses remained part of the \"Freigericht Thurlinden\" (Free Court of Thurlinden) instead of being incorporated into the Abbey's court. The \"Freigericht Thurlinden\" remained independent of Schönholzerswilen until the creation of the Helvetic Republic in 1798.\n\nSchönholzerswilen was probably a full parish by 1275. However, over the following years it decreased in importance and by 1508 the village church was just a filial church under the parish of Bussnang. When the parish of Bussnang converted during the Protestant Reformation, the abbot of St. Gallen forced Schönholzerswilen to remain Catholic. Schönholzerswilen remained Catholic until 1677. In 1718 they received a priest from Zurich. Zurich continued to appoint the village priest until 1843. Starting in 1820, the Catholics in the village were part of the parish of Wuppenau. This lasted for over thirty years, until in 1854 a Catholic parish was established in the municipality.\n\nSchönholzerswilen has an area, , of . Of this area, or 70.6% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 21.6% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 7.3% is settled (buildings or roads) and or 0.5% is unproductive land.\n\nOf the built up area, industrial buildings made up 3.3% of the total area while housing and buildings made up 0.0% and transportation infrastructure made up 1.4%. while parks, green belts and sports fields made up 2.6%. Out of the forested land, 19.7% of the total land area is heavily forested and 1.8% is covered with orchards or small clusters of trees. Of the agricultural land, 60.1% is used for growing crops, while 10.5% is used for orchards or vine crops.\n\nThe municipality is located in the Münchwilen district, on a ridge of the \"Gabrisstock\" between Bürglen (in Thurgau) and Wil (in St. Gallen). It consists of the village of Schönholzerswilen and the hamlets of Hagenwil, Leutenegg and Ritzisbuhwil as well as others.\n\nSchönholzerswilen has a population () of , 4.4% of the population are foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1997–2007) the population has changed at a rate of -1.6%. Most of the population () speaks German(98.9%), with Portuguese being second most common ( 0.3%) and French being third ( 0.1%).\n\n, the gender distribution of the population was 50.5% male and 49.5% female. The population was made up of 374 Swiss men (48.4% of the population), and 16 (2.1%) non-Swiss men. There were 365 Swiss women (47.2%), and 18 (2.3%) non-Swiss women.\n\nIn there were 9 live births to Swiss citizens, and in same time span there were 5 deaths of Swiss citizens. Ignoring immigration and emigration, the population of Swiss citizens increased by 4 while the foreign population remained the same. There was 1 Swiss man and 1 non-Swiss man who emigrated from Switzerland to another country and 4 non-Swiss women who emigrated from Switzerland to another country. The total Swiss population change in 2008 (from all sources) was an increase of 6 and the non-Swiss population change was an increase of 15 people. This represents a population growth rate of 2.8%.\n\nThe age distribution, , in Schönholzerswilen is; 92 children or 11.9% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 148 teenagers or 19.2% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 72 people or 9.4% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 91 people or 11.8% are between 30 and 39, 140 people or 18.2% are between 40 and 49, and 83 people or 10.8% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 56 people or 7.3% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 60 people or 7.8% are between 70 and 79, there are 25 people or 3.2% who are between 80 and 89, and there are 3 people or 0.4% who are 90 and older.\n\n, there were 246 private households in the municipality, and an average of 3. persons per household. there were 115 single family homes (or 89.8% of the total) out of a total of 128 inhabited buildings. There were 10 two family buildings (7.8%), 2 three family buildings (1.6%) and 1 multi-family buildings (or .8%). There were 128 (or 17.5%) persons who were part of a couple without children, and 490 (or 67.0%) who were part of a couple with children. There were 32 (or 4.4%) people who lived in single parent home, while there are 10 persons who were adult children living with one or both parents, 2 persons who lived in a household made up of relatives, 4 who lived in a household made up of unrelated persons, and 5 who are either institutionalized or live in another type of collective housing.\n\nThe vacancy rate for the municipality, , was 0%. , the construction rate of new housing units was 0 new units per 1000 residents. there were 260 apartments in the municipality. The most common apartment size was the 6 room apartment of which there were 103. There were - single room apartments and 103 apartments with six or more rooms.\n\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 56.26% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the CVP (13.32%), the Green Party (9.09%) and the SP (6.86%). In the federal election, a total of 301 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 55.3%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following table:\nThe Toos-Waldi, a Bronze Age hill settlement is listed as a Swiss heritage site of national significance. The entire village of Schönholzerswilen is part of the Inventory of Swiss Heritage Sites.\n\n, Schönholzerswilen had an unemployment rate of 0.99%. , there were 153 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 56 businesses involved in this sector. 21 people are employed in the secondary sector and there are 7 businesses in this sector. 61 people are employed in the tertiary sector, with 17 businesses in this sector.\n\nFrom the , 263 or 36.0% were Roman Catholic, while 402 or 55.0% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there is 1 individual who belongs to the Orthodox Church, and there are 15 individuals (or about 2.05% of the population) who belong to another Christian church. There were there is 1 individual who is Islamic. 31 (or about 4.24% of the population) belong to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 18 individuals (or about 2.46% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nIn Schönholzerswilen about 75.2% of the population (between age 25-64) have completed either non-mandatory upper secondary education or additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\").\n\n"}
{"id": "2263387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263387", "title": "G. Donald Harrison", "text": "G. Donald Harrison\n\nGeorge Donald Harrison (April 21, 1889 – June 14, 1956) was responsible for the design of some of the finest and largest pipe organs in the United States. Born in Huddersfield, England, he first worked as a patent attorney in 1914 but after military service he began to pursue an interest in pipe organ building, working with Henry Willis & Sons of London.\n\nAfter immigrating to America, Harrison joined the Skinner Organ Company in 1927 where he spent the remainder of his career. After the Skinner company merged with the Aeolian Organ Company, forming the Aeolian-Skinner Organ Company in 1933, he became the company's tonal director and president. While the bulk of his work was as a tonal designer and voicer, Harrison is most famous for his association with \"American Classic\" organ design. This design concept (its name coined by New Jersey state senator and fellow organ builder Emerson Lewis Richards) was partly a reaction to the proliferation of romantic-orchestral \"symphonic organs\" that had been in fashion to that point. The symphonic organ sought to emulate the effects of a symphony orchestra with imitative solo reeds, colorful flutes and warm string-toned stops. While these organs were well-suited to orchestral transcriptions, they lacked the clarity and brilliance needed to accurately play polyphonic music from the 18th century and earlier. On the other hand, the American Classic design sought to return to design principles of the 18th century, particularly the development of clean diapason choruses topped by brilliant mixtures. The voicing of these instruments allowed for a clear interpretation of fugal passages and chorale writing where each inner voice could be heard and articulated clearly. \n\nHowever, American Classic organs also contained symphonic stops and expressive divisions akin to those found on Romantic organs, with a special emphasis placed on voices from the 19th- and early 20th-century French Romantic schools. By using this method of blending different organ stops from all eras of organ building, Harrison conceived the American Classic organ as a single instrument that could effectively and convincingly play music of all styles and eras with equal facility. In many of his instruments, he is considered to have achieved this goal, adapting his instruments effectively to the particular acoustic qualities of American concert halls and churches.\n\nHarrison’s design concept was illustrated when he wrote: “To me, all art is international; one can draw from the best of all countries. I have used the technique at my disposal to produce instruments which I consider suitable for expressing the best in organ literature. I have no use for copying successful works of the past; such a method is doomed to failure. It seems to me the only way to build artistic and successful instruments is to have knowledge of what has gone before, and to thoroughly understand the underlying principles upon which the great works of the past have been based. The works produced are then originals, and while they can possess all the advantages of other good work, they have their own personality and reflect their own good time.” \n\nThe pipe organs at Grace Cathedral in San Francisco, Church of the Advent in Boston, and at St. John’s Chapel in Groton, Massachusetts, are often as cited as the first “turning point” instruments produced under Harrison’s direction. Each contained Baroque-style stops on low wind pressure with several different high-pitched mixtures – a vast departure from the norm in organ building at the time. But Harrison’s characteristic wisdom, restraint and diplomacy ensured that these rather revolutionary instruments made their appearance without offense. The tide soon turned in American organ building, and before long it seemed that everyone wanted an Aeolian-Skinner in their church or institution. Other builders adapted their product to the new and evolving market as well.\n\nA heavy smoker, Harrison died of a heart attack after weeks of overworking himself during hot summer months for the rebuilding of the E.M. Skinner organ at Saint Thomas Church Fifth Avenue for the 1956 American Guild of Organists national convention in New York City. Ernest M. Skinner, although much older, outlived Harrison by four years.\n\nAeolian-Skinner pipe organs built under Harrison's direction are considered by many to be the apotheosis of the American organ builder's art for their period. Unfortunately many of Harrison's masterworks have been altered, rebuilt or modified in such a way as to no longer be representative of his aesthetic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263397", "title": "Periș", "text": "Periș\n\nPeriș is a commune in the far northwestern corner of Ilfov county, Muntenia, Romania. The population of Periș, in 2002, was 7,151, with a total of 2,800 households (average household size—2.6 persons). In Romanian, its name means \"a place where pear trees grow\". The commune is composed of three villages: Bălteni, Buriaș and Periș. It used to include Brătulești and Cocioc villages, until these were absorbed by other villages in the commune.\n\nThe surface area of the commune is 77.97 km², and its altitude ranges from 105 to 137 m above sea level.\n\nIt was the site of the Battle of Periș, on August 24, 1546, where Mircea the Shepherd launched a surprise attack on the boyars opposing his rule and greatly decimated them.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263402", "title": "Ciolpani", "text": "Ciolpani\n\nCiolpani is a commune in the northwestern part of Ilfov county, Muntenia, Romania. It is composed of five villages: Ciolpani, Izvorani, Lupăria, Piscu and Ţigăneşti.\n\nIts name is the plural of \"ciolpan\", a Romanian word meaning \"tree stump\".\n"}
{"id": "2263405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263405", "title": "Gruiu", "text": "Gruiu\n\nGruiu is a commune in the northeastern part of Ilfov county, Muntenia, Romania. Its name in the Romanian language means \"small hill\". It is composed of four villages: Gruiu, Lipia, Siliștea Snagovului and Șanțu-Florești.\n"}
{"id": "2263406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263406", "title": "Nuci", "text": "Nuci\n\nNuci is a commune in the northeastern part of Ilfov County, Muntenia, Romania. Its name means \"walnut trees\" in Romanian. It is composed of five villages: Balta Neagră, Merii Petchii, Micșuneștii Mari, Micșuneștii-Moară and Nuci.\n"}
{"id": "2263407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263407", "title": "William L. Ensign", "text": "William L. Ensign\n\nWilliam L. \"Bill\" Ensign FAIA, served as Acting Architect of the Capitol from 1995-1997. He had previously served as Assistant Architect under George M. White. Upon White's retirement, Mr. Ensign assumed the responsibilities of Acting Architect until replaced by Alan M. Hantman, in January 1997. Under Hantman, Ensign's replacement as Assistant Architect was Michael G. Turnbull.\n\nMr. Ensign is also a former trustee of Tax-Free Fund For Utah and of cultural organizations.\n\nMr. Ensign spent his early career as a partner in a Washington architecture firm, McLeod, Ferrara and Ensign, which had a speciality in school and college design. He served as assistant architect of the Capitol from 1980 to 1995.\n\nWilliam Lloyd Ensign was born on the West Indian island of Trinidad on December 14, 1928, then under British control. His father was an American.\n\nThe younger Ensign was a 1950 civil and architectural engineering graduate of the University of Colorado. He received a master's degree in architecture from Columbia University in 1952 and then spent six years in the Navy.\n\nHe was a fellow of the American Institute of Architects and sat on the organization's national board. He was a former president of the AIA's Washington chapter. He received many awards from the AIA.\n\nHe died on December 7, 2010 in Bethesda, Maryland, at the age of 81.\n"}
{"id": "2263408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263408", "title": "Grădiștea, Ilfov", "text": "Grădiștea, Ilfov\n\nGrădiștea is a commune in the northeastern part of Ilfov County, Muntenia, Romania. It is composed of two villages, Grădiștea and Sitaru. Its name is of Slavic origin and has the meaning of the Latin word castrum. The name was used by the Slavs to locate the ruins of the old Roman fortifications.\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2263409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263409", "title": "Moara Vlăsiei", "text": "Moara Vlăsiei\n\nMoara Vlăsiei is a commune in the northern part of Ilfov County, Muntenia, Romania. Its name means \"Mill of Wallachia[n forest]\", and was called \"Căciulați\" until 1968, when its administrative center was moved from the village of Căciulați to Moara Vlăsiei (a village previously named \"Moara Săracă\" \"the Poor Mill\"). It is composed of two villages, Căciulați and Moara Vlăsiei.\n\nThe village is home to Moara Vlăsiei Cricket Ground, the only cricket field in Romania and home of the Romanian national cricket team.\n"}
{"id": "2263411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263411", "title": "Balotești", "text": "Balotești\n\nBalotești is a commune in the northwestern part of Ilfov County, Muntenia, Romania. Two small rivers flow through this location: Cociovaliștea and Vlăsia. It is composed of three villages: Balotești, Dumbrăveni and Săftica.\n\nThe commune is named after an 18th-century boyar, Balotă, who owned local lands.\n\nOn March 31, 1995, a TAROM Romanian Airbus A310 crashed near Balotești, leaving 60 dead (\"see Tarom Flight 371\").\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2263412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263412", "title": "Corbeanca", "text": "Corbeanca\n\nCorbeanca is a commune in the northwestern part of Ilfov County, Muntenia, Romania, on the Pociovaliștea River. It is composed of four villages: Corbeanca, Ostratu, Petrești and Tamași. The commune's name derives from \"Corbeanu\", the name of a shepherd who settled here.\nThere are several residential neighbourhoods that have been built in Corbeanca since the late 1990s, such as \"Paradisul verde\" (\"Green Paradise\").\n\nCorbeanca is linked to Bucharest's public transport system through regional bus route R441 and R446 .\n"}
{"id": "2263414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263414", "title": "George Petty-Fitzmaurice, 8th Marquess of Lansdowne", "text": "George Petty-Fitzmaurice, 8th Marquess of Lansdowne\n\nGeorge John Charles Mercer Nairne Petty-Fitzmaurice, 8th Marquess of Lansdowne DL (27 November 1912 – 25 August 1999), was a British peer and Conservative politician. He held the office of Justice of the Peace for Perthshire in 1950. He held the office of Deputy Lieutenant of Wiltshire in 1952. He held the office of Lord-in-Waiting between 1957 and 1958. He held the office of Joint Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State, Foreign Office between 1958 and 1962. He held the office of Minister of State, Commonwealth and Colonial Affairs between 1962 and 1964. He was invested as a Privy Counsellor in 1964.\n\nPetty-Fitzmaurice was the son of Lord Charles Petty-Fitzmaurice and grandson of Henry Petty-FitzMaurice, 5th Marquess of Lansdowne. His cousins, the 7th Marquess of Lansdowne and the 7th Marquess's younger brother, were both killed in action in August 1944 and Petty-FitzMaurice thus unexpectedly inherited his titles, except for the Lordship of Nairne, which was inherited by the 7th Marquess's sister Katherine Evelyn Constance Bigham (1912–1995). After his father's death, Petty-Fitzmaurice's mother, Violet, became the wife of John Jacob Astor, 1st Baron Astor of Hever.\n\nLord Lansdowne was married four times.\n\nHis first wife was Barbara Dempsey Chase (1918–1965), only child of Harold Stuart Chase (1890–1970), a real-estate investor of Santa Barbara, California, and Detroit, Michigan, and his wife, née Gertrude Boyer, formerly Stearns. They married on 18 March 1938; Lady Lansdowne died on 18 February 1965, from injuries sustained in \"a shotgun blast in the gunroom at her Scottish home, Meikleour House ... The police called it an accident\". They had four children:\n\nOn 22 December 1969, Lord Lansdowne married, secondly, Selina Polly Dawson Carnegie, daughter of David Eccles, 1st Viscount Eccles, and former wife of Robin Andrew Duthac Carnegie. They were divorced in 1978. By this marriage, Lord Lansdowne had one stepson, Andrew James Carnegie (born 1963).\n\nLord Lansdowne's third wife was Gillian Anna Morgan (1936–1982), daughter of A.E. Morgan and his first wife, the former Nancye Little-Jones. She and Lord Lansdowne married on 15 October 1978.\n\nOn 12 July 1995, Lord Lansdowne married Penelope Eve Astor (died 2006), widow of Lord Lansdowne's half-brother the Hon. John Astor, former wife of David Rolt, and daughter of Commander George Francis Norton Bradford.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263418", "title": "Dascălu, Ilfov", "text": "Dascălu, Ilfov\n\nDascălu is a commune in Ilfov County, Muntenia, Romania. It is composed of four villages: Creața, Dascălu, Gagu and Runcu. Its name is derived from an obsolete Romanian word for \"teacher\".\n\nThe Mostiștea river has its source in Gagu village.\n"}
{"id": "2263424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263424", "title": "Image hosting service", "text": "Image hosting service\n\nAn image hosting service allows individuals to upload images to an Internet website. The image host will then store the image onto its server, and show the individual different types of code to allow others to view that image. Some of the best known examples are Flickr, Imgur and Photobucket, each catering for different purposes.\n\nTypically image hosting websites provide an upload interface; a form in which the uploader specifies the location of an image file on their local computer file system. After pressing a \"Submit\" button the file is uploaded to the image host's server. Some image hosts allow the uploader to specify multiple files at once using this form, or the ability to upload one ZIP archive containing multiple images. Additionally, some hosts allow FTP access, where single or multiple files can be uploaded in one session using FTP software or an FTP-capable browser.\n\nAfter this process, the image is hosted on the server. Typically this means that the image is available on the web (to the public). The uploader may also be allowed to specify inline links to the hosted image, in order to embed it on other websites e.g.\n\n\nUsually, the image host will put restrictions on the maximum image size allowed, or the maximum space or bandwidth allowed per user. Due to bandwidth costs, free services usually offer relatively modest size limits per image when compared to paid services, but allow users hotlinking their images.\n\nImage hosts also allow tools such as the ability to create photoblogs/galleries with your images, or add them to a slide show for easier viewing. Some offer more advanced tools such as the ability for anl to ato an image they uploaded, sideloaders, or browser sidebars. Other hosts have introduced novel features such as the ability to automatically resize images down to a user-selected size. A Flickr tool allows one to upload photos using a camera phone with email capability.\n\nHosting services have the potential ability to identify when and where their images are being used. When an image file is accessed, the image host is capable of logging the date and the general numeric internet address of the request.\n\nIn the case of spam, the messages often include unique image URLs that are specific to that message only. The unique URL is used as a tracking ID, so that the image host can identify exactly what message intended for what specific recipient has been viewed, in addition to the date and host accessing the image. This is why many email reading systems do not show images by default, to protect the reader from having their reading of spam being tracked by the email senders.\n\nMany image hosts are free, some do not even require registration. Of the free image hosts, the vast majority are supported by advertisements, mostly on their top pages, thumbnail pages, or \"not found\" pages. Showing advertisements to users has enabled image size and bandwidth limits to increase.\n\nSome free hosts have optional paid image hosting functions, while other hosts offer only paid services. Features and storage available are generally better for paid services, while cost is still much less than the cost of purchasing webhosting to operate a website. Paid services often allow users to have password protected photo albums, customizable skins, and customized subdomains. There are many other paid services available that offer different packages of options, features, and costs.\n\nBefore the development of image hosting services, the display and exchange of images on the early public Internet of the 1980s-1990s was a laborious and complex process. Expertise was needed to set up a private file server, to connect it to the Internet, and paying for the potentially expensive dedicated Internet connection. Some experts would provide access to a Unix shell and some file storage, via paid access, free public access, or just made available to a select group of private friends. Uploading of images was accomplished with command-line tools like FTP, or uploading images using slow 14.4 to 33.6 kilobit dialup modem connections and terminal protocols like XMODEM to the server storage.\n\nBefore the Web was developed, images would primarily be downloaded manually from file servers or from binary newsgroups on Usenet, and displayed with a separate image viewer. The expansion of the Web in the 1990s brought text and images together, allowing for inline display of images without separate downloading, but still required the above expertise and methods to make the images available.\n\nAlso, on the early web, some technical knowledge was required to know how to even make an uploaded image display on a discussion forum. Typically, images would accessed using a URL format similar to:\n\nbut to make the image actually display in a discussion forum, this would need to be manually rewritten in HTML markup in the forum post, as\nOne of the primary new features of the early and developing Web that enabled the easy sharing of images and other data, was the concept of being able to upload or HTTP POST a file via the web browser to the remote server. This alone helped to eliminate all the complex steps of needing to understand command line tools like FTP or uploading via a modem terminal.\n\nEarly image and data storage servers also initially left the uploaded content unchanged, sometimes resulting in undesirable web page display problems, such as too high resolution causing page layout problems in discussion forums, or too high detail causing very slow page loading times. The sharing of potentially incompatible image formats could also result in them not displaying properly for some viewers.\n\nThe early and developing image sharing services eventually added the ability to automatically resize and recompress uploaded images into standardized sizes and formats, for maximum browser compatibility and minimizing of bandwidth usage for unnecessarily large images.\n\nThe provision for early image sharing services to automatically create sharing links also reduced the need for technical knowledge of where the image was uploaded.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263427", "title": "Petrăchioaia", "text": "Petrăchioaia\n\nPetrăchioaia is a commune in the east of Ilfov County, Muntenia, Romania. It is composed of four villages: Măineasca, Surlari, Petrăchioaia and Vânători. Its name is a feminine form of \"Petrache\", which in turn is a name of Greek origin, derived from \"Petrakis\".\n"}
{"id": "2263428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263428", "title": "Tunari", "text": "Tunari\n\nTunari is a commune in the center of Ilfov County, Muntenia, Romania. Its name means \"cannoneers\" in Romanian. It is composed of two villages, Dimieni and Tunari.\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2263429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263429", "title": "Ștefăneștii de Jos", "text": "Ștefăneștii de Jos\n\nȘtefăneștii de Jos is a commune in the centre of Ilfov County, Muntenia, Romania. Its name means \"Lower Ștefănești\", derived from \"Ștefan\" (Stephan) and suffix -ești. The commune is composed of three villages: Crețuleasca, Ștefăneștii de Jos and Ștefăneștii de Sus.\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2263431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263431", "title": "Afumați, Ilfov", "text": "Afumați, Ilfov\n\nAfumați is a commune in the east of Ilfov County, Muntenia, Romania, composed of a single village, Afumați. Its name is derived from the Romanian verb \"a afuma\", meaning to smoke food.\n\nThe ruins of the Princely Court of Radu of Afumați, Voivode of Wallachia from 1522 to 1529, are located at the entrance in the commune, on the left bank of the Pasărea brook.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263432", "title": "Găneasa, Ilfov", "text": "Găneasa, Ilfov\n\nGăneasa is a commune in the east of Ilfov County, Muntenia, Romania. Its name is a feminine form of \"Gane\", a Romanian name. It is composed of five villages: Cozieni, Găneasa, Moara Domnească, Piteasca and Șindrilița.\n"}
{"id": "2263434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263434", "title": "Mogoșoaia", "text": "Mogoșoaia\n\nMogoșoaia is a commune in the west of Ilfov County, Muntenia, Romania, composed of a single village, Mogoșoaia. \n\nIn late 17th century, Constantin Brâncoveanu bought land here, and, between 1698–1702, he built the Mogoșoaia Palace.\n"}
{"id": "2263435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263435", "title": "The Gates of Hell", "text": "The Gates of Hell\n\nThe Gates of Hell () is a monumental sculptural group work by French artist Auguste Rodin that depicts a scene from the \"Inferno\", the first section of Dante Alighieri's \"Divine Comedy\". It stands at 6 metres high, 4 metres wide and 1 metre deep () and contains 180 figures. The figures range from high up to more than one metre (3 ft). Several of the figures were also cast independently by Rodin.\n\nThe sculpture was commissioned by the Directorate of Fine Arts in 1880 and was meant to be delivered in 1885.\nRodin would continue to work on and off on this project for 37 years, until his death in 1917.\n\nThe Directorate asked for an inviting entrance to a planned Decorative Arts Museum with the theme being left to Rodin's selection. Even before this commission, Rodin had developed sketches of some of Dante's characters based on his admiration of Dante's \"Inferno\".\n\nThe Decorative Arts Museum was never built. Rodin worked on this project on the ground floor of the Hôtel Biron. Near the end of his life, Rodin donated sculptures, drawings and reproduction rights to the French government. In 1919, two years after his death, The Hôtel Biron became the Musée Rodin housing a cast of \"The Gates of Hell\" and related works.\n\nRodin conceived that people would walk toward the work, perhaps up a flight of stairs, and be overwhelmed frontally by the massive gates, contemplating the experience of hell that Dante describes in his \"Inferno\". Rodin thought particularly of Dante's warning over the entrance of the Inferno, \"Abandon every hope, who enter here.\"\n\nA work of the scope of \"The Gates of Hell\" had not been attempted before, but inspiration came from Lorenzo Ghiberti's \"Gates of Paradise\" at the Baptistery of St. John, Florence, 15th century bronze doors depicting figures from the Old Testament.\nAnother source of inspiration was medieval cathedrals combining high and low relief.\nRodin was also inspired by Michelangelo's fresco \"The Last Judgment\", Delacroix's painting \"The Barque of Dante\", Balzac's collection \"La Comédie humaine\" and Baudelaire's poems \"Les Fleurs du mal\".\n\nIn an article in \"Le Matin\", Rodin said: \"For a whole year I lived with Dante, with him alone, drawing the eight circles of his inferno. [...] At the end of this year, I realized that while my drawing rendered my vision of Dante, they had become too remote from reality. So I started all over again, working from nature, with my models.\"\n\nThe original sculptures were enlarged and became works of art of their own.\n\n\nThe original plaster was restored in 1917 and is displayed at the Musée d'Orsay in Paris. A series of plaster casts illustrating the development of the work is on view at the Musée Rodin in Meudon. Also in 1917, a model was used to make the original three bronze casts: \n\nSubsequent bronzes have been distributed by the Musée Rodin to a number of locations, including:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263438", "title": "Chitila", "text": "Chitila\n\nChitila () is a town in the west of Ilfov County, Muntenia, Romania, situated 9 km to the north west of Bucharest. It is often seen as a satellite town of Bucharest. One village, Rudeni, is administered by the town.\nChitilia is linked to Bucharest by three bus routes (r476, r469 and r402) run by STB - Society of Transport Bucharest - , and the railways coming from Buzău and Ploiești.\n"}
{"id": "2263439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263439", "title": "Dragomirești-Vale", "text": "Dragomirești-Vale\n\nDragomirești-Vale is a commune in the southwestern part of Ilfov County, Muntenia, Romania. Its name is derived from \"Dragomir\", a Romanian name of Slavic origin (from Драгомир, which means \"precious and peaceful\"), the suffix \"-ești\", and noun \"Vale\", which means \"valley\".\n\nA medium-size commune, it is composed of 3 villages: Dragomirești-Deal, Dragomirești-Vale and Zurbaua.\n\nIt is situated near Bucharest, approx. 14 km away from the city centre and 4 km from the Bucharest-Pitești highway. The nearest airports are Henri Coandă International Airport, Otopeni (30 km away), and Aurel Vlaicu International Airport (25 km away).\n"}
{"id": "2263443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263443", "title": "Dobroești", "text": "Dobroești\n\nDobroești is a commune in the east of Ilfov County, Muntenia, Romania, right off the limits of Bucharest's Sector 2. It is composed of two villages, Dobroești and Fundeni. The name \"Dobroești\" is derived from South Slavic/Bulgarian \"Dobro\" (good) and Romanian suffix -ești. A modern shopping and apartment complex, for overseas Chinese, have been built in Dobroești, dubbed as Chinatown.\n"}
{"id": "2263446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263446", "title": "Brănești, Ilfov", "text": "Brănești, Ilfov\n\nBrănești is a commune in the far east of Ilfov County, Muntenia, Romania. Its name is derived from \"Bran\", a Romanian name, and the suffix -ești. It is composed of four villages: Brănești, Islaz, Pasărea and Vadu Anei.\nBrănești has three high schools. \n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2263448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263448", "title": "Ciorogârla", "text": "Ciorogârla\n\nCiorogârla is a commune in the southwestern part of Ilfov County, Muntenia, Romania. It is composed of two villages, Ciorogârla and Dârvari. The Ciorogârla River flows through this location; its name, of Slavic origin, means \"murky stream\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2263449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263449", "title": "Domnești, Ilfov", "text": "Domnești, Ilfov\n\nDomnești is a commune in the southwestern part of Ilfov County, Muntenia, Romania. Its name is derived from \"Domn\" (Lord, referring to the ruler of Wallachia) and suffix \"-ești\". It is composed of two villages, Domnești and Țegheș.\n"}
{"id": "2263453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263453", "title": "Clinceni", "text": "Clinceni\n\nClinceni is a commune in the southwestern part of Ilfov County, Muntenia, Romania. It is composed of three villages: Clinceni, Olteni and Ordoreanu. The location hosts a small airport.\n"}
{"id": "2263457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263457", "title": "Bragadiru", "text": "Bragadiru\n\nBragadiru is a town in the southwestern part of Ilfov County, Muntenia, Romania.\n\nAccording to the 2002 census, Bragadiru had a population of 8,165, of which 98.19% were Romanians, 1.45% were Romani, and 0.36% of other ethnic backgrounds.\n"}
{"id": "2263459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263459", "title": "Glina, Ilfov", "text": "Glina, Ilfov\n\nGlina is a commune in the south-east of Ilfov county, Muntenia, Romania. Its name is derived from Slavic \"Glina\", meaning \"clay\". It is composed of three villages: Cățelu, Glina and Manolache.\n\nThe commune is the site of the Glina sewage treatment plant.\n\nCățelu is the site of Battery 9-10, the best known – and most visited – former military fort from a defensive circle of fortifications surrounding Bucharest that was built in the late 19th century, during the reign of King Carol I.\n"}
{"id": "2263460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263460", "title": "Cernica", "text": "Cernica\n\nCernica is a commune in the southeast part of Ilfov County, Muntenia, Romania, with a population of 9,425 as of 2002. It is composed of five villages: Bălăceanca, Căldăraru, Cernica, Poșta and Tânganu, several villages on the bank of lake Cernica. The commune lent its name to the Cernica Monastery, an early 17th-century Orthodox monastery in the nearby town of Pantelimon. The name is also given to the Cernica Forest, the largest wooded area around Bucharest.\n\nThe name of the commune is derived from the name of the vornic Cernica Știrbei and is of Slavic origin, meaning \"black\". \n"}
{"id": "2263461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263461", "title": "Cornetu", "text": "Cornetu\n\nCornetu is a commune in the south-west of Ilfov county, Muntenia, Romania. In Romanian, its name signifies a forest of European Cornel (\"Cornus mas\") trees. It is composed of two villages, Buda and Cornetu.\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2263462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263462", "title": "Paul Hirst", "text": "Paul Hirst\n\nPaul Quentin Hirst (1946–2003) was a British sociologist and political theorist. He became Professor of Social Theory at Birkbeck College, London, in 1985 and held the post until his death from a stroke and brain haemorrhage.\n\nOn 20 May 1946, Hirst was born in Holbeton, Devon. His father was in the armed forces and part of this childhood was spent in Germany. He went to grammar school in Plymouth, he studied social science at the University of Leicester, where he was taught by Sami Zubaida, and took his master’s in sociology at the University of Sussex.\n\nHirst took up a lectureship at Birkbeck College in 1969. In 1972, he was one of the founding members of the Department of Politics and Sociology at Birkbeck. He was appointed Reader in Social Theory in 1978 and Professor seven years later.\n\nDuring the 1970s he became well known (along with Barry Hindess) as the main figure in British structural Marxism. By the late 1970s and 1980s, however, Hirst had become a critic of Louis Althusser's brand of Marxism. Drawing upon Michel Foucault but also W. V. O. Quine and Ludwig Wittgenstein, he criticised essentialism, epistemological discourses and the possibility of any general theory, in a move against careless sociological constructionist imperialism. In his work on democratic governance, he turned towards the ideas of the English political pluralists: John Neville Figgis, G. D. H. Cole, and Harold Laski. During the late 1980s and early 1990s, Hirst developed a theory of associationalism which attempted to revive social democracy by providing an alternative to state socialism and free-market liberalism. He also made important contributions to critical legal theory.\n\nHis later work, with Grahame Thompson resulted in an influential criticism of fashionable theories of economic globalisation, demonstrating the continued importance of the nation-state. His book 'War and Power' is a historical-sociological analysis of the development of the modern state and state system and addresses some of current political challenges including climate change. His last book 'Space and Power' clearly demonstrated his intellectual scope. In the book he investigates the relationship between space and power, arguing that the exercise of power is both constrained by and shapes the character of the built environment.\n\nWith Mark Cousins, Colin MacCabe, and Richard Humphreys, he founded the London Consortium in 1993. He chaired the Executive Committee of Charter 88 and was an early and regular contributor to \"openDemocracy\".\n\nHe died on 17 June 2003 in London.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263465", "title": "Măgurele", "text": "Măgurele\n\nMăgurele is a town situated in the southwestern part of Ilfov County, Muntenia, Romania. Its population is 9,200. Four villages are administered by the town: Alunișu, Dumitrana, Pruni and Vârteju.\n\nThe town hosts a nuclear research lab, the Institute of Atomic Physics ( (IFA)) and its National Institute for Physics and Nuclear Engineering. Between 1957 and 1998, it had a Soviet VVRS research reactor, now closed down. The Faculty of Physics of the University of Bucharest is also located in Măgurele.\n\nAccording to a Romanian government press release, the high power laser system (HPLS) project of the Extreme Light Infrastructure - Nuclear Physics Center achieved the power of 10 petawatts on 7 March 2019, becoming the most powerful laser in the world.\n\nIts name is derived from a Romanian word possibly of Dacian origin, \"măgură\", meaning \"hill\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2263467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263467", "title": "Berceni, Ilfov", "text": "Berceni, Ilfov\n\nBerceni is a commune in the southeastern part of Ilfov county,\nMuntenia, Romania, composed of a single village, Berceni.\n"}
{"id": "2263468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263468", "title": "Dărăști-Ilfov", "text": "Dărăști-Ilfov\n\nDărăști-Ilfov is a commune in the south of Ilfov County, Muntenia, Romania, 20 km from the national capital, Bucharest. It is composed of a single village, Dărăști-Ilfov. The commune, with a population of 2935 people, is mainly inhabited by low-income families, many of which commute to Bucharest for work but live in the locality due to cheaper housing. According to the 2002 census, 100.0% of the population are ethnic Romanians.\n\nUntil July 2005, Dărăști had been served by public bus route 433 from Bucharest, run by RATB, the capital's bus operator. After July 2005, however, RATB suspended all of its outer-suburban routes in Ilfov County, including Route 433 to Dărăști, citing lack of profitability on these routes. This resulted in the routes being licensed out to private operators. The Dărăști-Bucharest route was contracted to Atlassib, a Romanian bus company which operates internationally. Atlassib has been accused by the residents of Dărăști for doubling prices, despite the fact that RATB prices were heavily subsidised.\n\nIn October 2005, this led to a number of revolts by the residents of the Dărăști, many of which refused to pay the fare, physically-abused drivers and controllers, and damaged the buses, causing losses of 200,000 new lei to Altassib. This has led to the introduction of security guards on Dărăști services, and in bus stops alongside the route, making the Dărăști-Bucharest route the only route in Romania that necessitates this type of security. On October 10, 2005, \"Gândul\" reported that the threats and assault against Atlassib employees increased, prompted by a price rise of more than 30% that Altassib maintains was only caused by a need to recover losses on the route. This had led many to believe that the bus service may soon by totally suspended, leaving the locality without any public transport links with Bucharest and further exacerbating Dărăști's social problems.\n\nIn 2006, RATB reintroduced Route 433 services from Bucharest to Dărăști, and the city is now once again connected to the capital's public bus network.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263469", "title": "1 Decembrie", "text": "1 Decembrie\n\n1 Decembrie is a commune in the south of Ilfov County, Muntenia, Romania, composed of a single village, 1 Decembrie. It also included Copăceni village until 2005, when it was split off to form a separate commune. It has a population of 9,436, of which 9,067 (96.08%) are Romanians and 363 (3.84%) are Roma (Gypsies).\n\nOriginally named Copăcenii de Sus, in the 1930s the village changed its name to Regele Ferdinand, in memory of King Ferdinand of Romania. After the Communist takeover in mid-1940s, the name was changed to 30 Decembrie (December 30), to commemorate the day when the country became a republic in 1947. In 1996, following the Romanian Revolution, the name was changed to 1 Decembrie (December 1) - the day when the Kingdom of Romania was united with Transylvania in 1918.\n"}
{"id": "2263470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263470", "title": "Vidra, Ilfov", "text": "Vidra, Ilfov\n\nVidra is a commune in the south of Ilfov County, Muntenia, Romania. Its name means \"otter\". It is composed of three villages: Crețești, Sintești and Vidra.\n"}
{"id": "2263473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263473", "title": "Volley theory", "text": "Volley theory\n\nVolley theory states that groups of neurons of the auditory system respond to a sound by firing action potentials slightly out of phase with one another so that when combined, a greater frequency of sound can be encoded and sent to the brain to be analyzed. The theory was proposed by Ernest Wever and Charles Bray in 1930 as a supplement to the frequency theory of hearing. It was later discovered that this only occurs in response to sounds that are about 500 Hz to 5000 Hz.\n\nThe volley theory was explained in depth in Ernest Wever's 1949 book, Theory of Hearing Groups of neurons in the cochlea individually fire at subharmonic frequencies of a sound being heard and collectively phase-lock to match the total frequencies of the sound. The reason for this is that neurons can only fire at a maximum of about 500 Hz but other theories of hearing did not explain for hearing sounds below about 5000 Hz.\n\nSounds are often sums of multiple frequency tones. When these frequencies are whole number multiples of a fundamental frequency they create a harmonic. When groups of auditory neurons are presented with harmonics, each neuron fires at one frequency and when combined, the entire harmonic is encoded into the primary auditory cortex of the brain. This is the basis of volley theory.\n\nPhase-locking is known as matching amplitude times to a certain phase of another waveform. In the case of auditory neurons, this means firing an action potential at a certain phase of a stimulus sound being delivered. It has been seen that when being played a pure tone, auditory nerve fibers will fire at the same frequency as the tone. Volley theory suggests that groups of auditory neurons use phase-locking to represent subharmonic frequencies of one harmonic sound. This has been shown in guinea pig and cat models.\n\nIn 1980, Don Johnson experimentally revealed phase-locking in the auditory nerve fibers of the adult cat. In the presence of -40 to -100 decibel single tones lasting 15 or 30 seconds, recordings from the auditory nerve fibers showed firing fluctuations in synchrony with the stimulus. Johnson observed that during frequencies below 1000 Hz, two peaks are recorded for every cycle of the stimulus, which had varying phases according to stimulation frequency. This phenomenon was interpreted as the result of a second harmonic, phase-locking to the stimulus waveform. However, at frequencies between about 1000 Hz and 5000 Hz, phase-locking becomes progressively inaccurate and intervals tend to become more random.\n\nPitch is an assigned, perceptual property where a listener orders sound frequencies from low to high. Pitch is hypothesized to be determined by receiving phase-locked input from neuronal axons and combining that information into harmonics. In simple sounds consisting of one frequency, the pitch is equivalent to the frequency. There are two models of pitch perception; a spectral and a temporal. Low frequency sounds evoke the strongest pitches, suggesting that pitch is based on the temporal components of the sound.\nHistorically, there have been many models of pitch perception. (Terhardt, 1974; Goldstein, 1973; Wightman, 1973). Many consisted of a peripheral spectral-analysis stage and a central periodicity-analysis stage. In his model, Terhardt claims that the spectral-analysis output of complex sounds, specifically low frequency ones, is a learned entity which eventually allows easy identification of the virtual pitch. The volley principle is predominantly seen during the pitch perception of lower frequencies where sounds are often resolved. Goldstein proposed that through phase-locking and temporal frequencies encoded in neuron firing rates, the brain has the itemization of frequencies that can then be used to estimate pitch.\n\nThroughout the nineteenth century, many theories and concepts of hearing were created. Ernest Wever proposed the volley theory in 1937 with his paper \"The Perception of Low Tones and the Resonance-Volley Theory\". In this paper, Wever discusses previous theories of hearing and introduces volley theory using support from his own experiments and research. The theory was introduced as a supplement to the frequency theory or temporal theory of hearing, which was in contrast to the place theory of hearing.\n\nThe most prominent figure in the creation of the place theory of hearing is Hermann von Helmholtz, who published his finished theory in 1885. Helmholtz claimed that the cochlea contained individual fibers for analyzing each pitch and delivering that information to the brain. Many followers revised and added to Helmholtz's theory and the consensus soon became that high frequency sounds were encoded near the base of the cochlea and that middle frequency sounds were encoded near the apex. Georg von Békésy developed a novel method of dissecting the inner ear and using stroboscopic illumination to observe the basilar membrane move, adding evidence to support the theory.\n\nIdeas related to the frequency theory of hearing came about in the late 1800s as a result of the research of many individuals. In 1865, Heinrich Adolf Rinne challenged the place theory; he claimed that it’s not very efficient for complex sounds to be broken into simple sounds then be reconstructed in the brain. Later, Friedrich Voltolini added on by proposing that every auditory hair cell is stimulated by any sound. Correspondingly, William Rutherford provided evidence that this hypothesis was true, allowing greater accuracy of the cochlea. In 1886, Rutherford also proposed that the brain interpreted the vibrations of the hair cells and that the cochlea did no frequency or pitch analysis of the sound. Soon after, Max Friedrich Meyer, among other ideas, theorized that nerves would be excited at the same frequency of the stimulus.\n\nOf the various theories and notions created by Rinne, Rutherford, and their followers, the frequency theory was born. In general, it claimed that all sounds were encoded to the brain by neurons firing at a rate that mimics the frequency of the sound. However, because humans can hear frequencies up to 20,000 Hz but neurons cannot fire at these rates, the frequency theory had a major flaw. In an effort to combat this fault, Ernest Wever and Charles Bray, in 1930, proposed the volley theory, claiming that multiple neurons could fire in a volley to later combine and equal the frequency of the original sound stimulus. Through more research, it was determined that because phase synchrony is only accurate up to about 1000 Hz, volley theory cannot account for all frequencies at which we hear.\n\nUltimately, as new methods of studying the inner ear came about, a combination of place theory and frequency theory was adopted. Today, it is widely believed that hearing follows the rules of the frequency theory, including volley theory, at frequencies below 1000 Hz and place theory at frequencies above 5000 Hz. For sounds with frequencies between 1000 and 5000 Hz, both theories come into play so the brain can utilize the basilar membrane location and the rate of the impulse.\n\nDue to the invasiveness of most hearing related experiments, it is difficult to use human models in the study of the auditory system. However, many findings have been revealed in cats and guinea pigs. Additionally, there are few ways to study the basilar membrane \"in vivo\".\n\nMany revolutionary concepts regarding hearing and encoding sound in the brain were founded in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Various tool were used induce a response in auditory nerves that were to be recorded. Experiments by Helmholtz, Wever, and Bray often involved the use of organ pipes, stretched springs, loaded reeds, lamellas, vibrating forks, beats, and interruption tones to create “clicks”, harmonics, or pure tones. Today, electronic oscillators are often used to create sinusoidal or square waves of precise frequencies.\n\nAttempts to electrically record from the auditory nerve began as early as 1896. Electrodes were placed into the auditory nerve of various animal models to give insight on the rate at which the neurons are firing. In a 1930 experiment involving the auditory nerve of a cat, Wever and Bray found that 100–5000 Hz sounds played to the cat produced similar frequency firing in the nerve. This supported the frequency theory and the volley theory.\n\nPioneered by Georg von Békésy, a method to observe the basilar membrane in action came about in the mid 1900s. Békésy isolated the cochlea from human and animal cadavers and labeled the basilar membrane with silver flakes. This allowed strobe imaging to capture the movement of the membrane as sounds stimulated the hair cells. This led to the solidification of the idea that high frequencies excite the basal end of the cochlea and provided new information that low frequencies excite a large area of the cochlea. This new finding suggested that specialized properties are occurring for high frequency hearing and that low frequencies involve mechanisms explained in the frequency theory.\n\nA fundamental frequency is the lowest frequency of a harmonic. In some cases, sound can have all the frequencies of a harmonic but be missing the fundamental frequency, this is known as missing fundamental. When listening to a sound with a missing fundamental, the human brain still receives information for all frequencies, including the fundamental frequency which does not exist in the sound. This implies that sound is encoded by neurons firing at all frequencies of a harmonic, therefore, the neurons must be locked in some way to result in the hearing of one sound.\nCongenital deafness or sensorineural hearing loss is an often used model for the study of the inner ear regarding pitch perception and theories of hearing in general. Frequency analysis of these individuals’ hearing has given insight on common deviations from normal tuning curves, excitation patterns, and frequency discrimination ranges. By applying pure or complex tones, information on pitch perception can be obtained. In 1983, it was shown that subjects with low frequency sensorineural hearing loss demonstrated abnormal psychophysical tuning curves. Changes in the spatial responses in these subjects showed similar pitch judgment abilities when compared to subjects with normal spatial responses. This was especially true regarding low frequency stimuli. These results suggest that the place theory of hearing does not explain pitch perception at low frequencies, but that the temporal (frequency) theory is more likely. This conclusion is due to the finding that when deprived of basilar membrane place information, these patients still demonstrated normal pitch perception. Computer models for pitch perception and loudness perception are often used during hearing studies on acoustically impaired subjects. The combination of this modeling and knowledge of natural hearing allows for better development of hearing aids.\n"}
{"id": "2263474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263474", "title": "Rush–Copley Medical Center", "text": "Rush–Copley Medical Center\n\nRush–Copley Medical Center in Aurora, Illinois is a 210-bed hospital in the greater Fox Valley area. It is named after Ira Clifton Copley, who donated over $2 million for the original hospital.\n\nThe Cancer Care Center has been designated as a Comprehensive Community Cancer Center by the American College of Surgeons Commission on Cancer.\n\nRush–Copley Neuroscience Services provides specialized care to the greater Fox Valley area.\n\nThe Heart and Vascular Institute is an accredited Chest Pain Center for the care of patients with Acute Coronary from the Society of Chest Pain Centers.\n\nEmergency Services is a designated Level II Trauma Center that serves nearly 70,000 patients annually.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263484", "title": "Swingnose crossing", "text": "Swingnose crossing\n\nA swingnose crossing or moveable point frog is a device used at a railway turnout to eliminate the gap at the common crossing (a.k.a. frog) which can cause damage and noise.\n\nOn a fixed railway crossing, the wheels need only drift by a small angle, say 1 in 20, before the vehicle may start to go in the wrong direction at the V of a V-crossing. This problem can limit the maximum speed of vehicles using the crossing.\n\nIn addition, the open gap at a fixed V-crossing forms a weak point on the railway line where the heavily loaded wheel must bump across the resulting gap of about 10 cm, supported only by the portion of the wheel tread which is on the wing rail. This pounds the rail so much that the steel can deform and/or wear away. This damage may easily spread to other components including the wheels, and the noise can be a nuisance. Scheduling repair of damage can also be a problem in high traffic locations.\n\nSwingnose crossings virtually eliminate the gap at V-crossings allowing for higher vehicle speeds.\n\nThe swingnose crossing overcomes the problem of the gap by moving the point of the V-crossing from side to side, synchronised with the selected direction of the turnout. The wheels are supported the entire way on their treads, and do not produce noise and vibration that would otherwise occur.\n\nSwingnose crossings are also useful where heavy rail and light rail vehicles, which have different wheel profiles, share the same track.\n\nA variety of swingnose crossing, suitable for locations where a branch line turns off a higher-speed line, is the swing wing crossing. In this device, the V-crossing does not need its own motor but is moved by the flange of an approaching wheel on the branch track. It returns to its normal position when the diverging train has passed, pushed by a damped spring.\n\nSwingnose crossings would be used for V-crossings finer than about 1 in 20, and for axle loads in excess of 25 tonnes. \n\nSwingnose crossings need to operate at the same time as the main turnout switches to which they belong. This may require excessive effort for manual operation, and require a point motor. The main turnout and the swingnose crossing will require separate machines.\n\nA switched diamond is a diamond crossing in which the fixed frogs are replaced by moveable frogs.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263486", "title": "Latanoprost", "text": "Latanoprost\n\nLatanoprost, sold under the brand name Xalatan among others, is a medication used to treat increased pressure inside the eye. This includes ocular hypertension and open angle glaucoma. It is applied as eye drops to the eyes. Onset of effects is usually within four hours, and they last for up to a day.\nCommon side effects include blurry vision, redness of the eye, itchiness, and darkening of the iris. Latanoprost is in the prostaglandin analogue family of medication. It works by increasing the outflow of aqueous fluid from the eyes through the uveoscleral tract.\nLatanoprost was approved for medical use in the United States in 1996. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines, the safest and most effective medicines needed in a health system. Latanoprost is available as a generic medication. The wholesale cost in the developing world is about US$0.69–3.79 per 2.5 ml bottle. In the United States a month of treatment costs less than . In 2017, it was the 81st most commonly prescribed medication in the United States with more than nine million prescriptions.\n\nIn people with ocular hypertension (intraocular pressure (IOP) ≥21 mm Hg) including open-angle glaucoma, treatment with latanoprost reduced IOP levels by 22 to 39% over 1 to 12 months’ treatment. Latanoprost was more effective than timolol 0.5% twice daily in 3 of 4 large (n = 163 to 267) randomised, double-blind trials. Latanoprost demonstrated a stable long-term IOP-lowering effect in 1- or 2-year continuations of these trials, with no sign of diminishing effect during prolonged treatment.\n\nMeta-analysis suggests that latanoprost is more effective than timolol in lowering intraocular pressure (IOP). However, it often causes iris pigmentation. While current evidence suggests that this pigmentation is benign, careful lifetime evaluation of patients is still justified.\n\nPatients who had elevated IOP despite iridotomy and/or iridectomy (including patients of Asian descent), latanoprost was significantly more effective than timolol in two double-blind, monotherapy trials (8.2 and 8.8 mm Hg vs 5.2 and 5.7 mm Hg for latanoprost vs timolol at 12 and 2 weeks, respectively).\n\nListed from most to least common:\n\n\nResearch suggests that wiping the eye with an absorbent pad after the administration of eye drops can result in shorter eyelashes and a lesser chance of hyperpigmentation in the eyelid, compared to not wiping off excess fluid.\n\nUse in pregnant women is limited due to high incidence of abortion shown in animal experiments. Because of this, latanoprost is classified as risk factor C (adverse events were observed in animal reproduction studies at maternally toxic doses) according to United States Food and Drug Administration's use-in-pregnancy ratings. Drug excretion in breast milk is unknown.\n\nInteractions are similar to other prostaglandin analogs. Paradoxically, the concomitant use of latanoprost and bimatoprost or other prostaglandins may result in increased intraocular pressure.\nNon-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can reduce or increase the effect of latanoprost.\n\nLike tafluprost and travoprost, latanoprost is an ester prodrug that is activated to the free acid in the cornea. Also like the related drugs, latanoprost acid is an analog of prostaglandin F that acts as a selective agonist at the prostaglandin F receptor. Prostaglandins increase the sclera's permeability to aqueous fluid. So, an increase in prostaglandin activity increases outflow of aqueous fluid thus lowering intraocular pressure.\n\nLatanoprost is absorbed well through the cornea and completely hydrolysed to the active latanoprost acid. Highest concentrations of the acid in the aqueous humour are reached two hours after application, lowering of intraocular pressure starts after 3 to 4 hours, the highest effect is found after 8 to 12 hours, and its action lasts at least 24 hours. When latanoprost acid reaches the circulation, it is quickly metabolised in the liver by beta oxidation to 1,2-dinor- and 1,2,3,4-tetranor-latanoprost acid; blood plasma half life is only 17 minutes. The metabolites are mainly excreted via the kidney.\n\nThe activation and deactivation pathway is analogous to the one of tafluprost; see Tafluprost#Pharmacokinetics for chemical formulae.\n\nLatanoprost exhibits thermal and solar instability. The concentration of latanoprost stored at 50 °C will decrease by 10% every 8.25 days. When stored at 70 °C the concentration will decrease by 10% every 1.32 days. Ultraviolet light, for example in sunlight, causes rapid degradation of latanoprost.\n\nThe brand Xalatan is manufactured by Pfizer.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263491", "title": "Japanese occupation of Singapore", "text": "Japanese occupation of Singapore\n\n, officially was the name for Singapore when it was occupied and ruled by the Empire of Japan, following the fall and surrender of British military forces on 15 February 1942 during World War II.\n\nJapanese military forces occupied it after defeating the combined British, Indian, Australian, and Malayan garrison in the Battle of Singapore. The occupation was to become a major turning point in the histories of several nations, including those of Japan, Britain, and Singapore. Singapore was renamed , meaning \"Light of the South Island\" and was also included as part of the .\n\nSingapore was officially returned to British colonial rule on 12 September 1945, following the formal signing of the surrender instrument at the Municipal Building, now known as the City Hall. Singapore would go on to be a sovereign city-state 20 years later in 1965. The experience of Japanese rule continues to be commemorated with Total Defence Day, which is marked annually in Singapore on 15 February, the day of the surrender of the British to the Japanese in 1942.\n\nThe Japanese captured all of Malaya during the Malayan Campaign in a little more than two months. The garrison defending Singapore surrendered on 15 February 1942, only a week after the invasion of the island commenced. British Prime Minister Winston Churchill called the fall of Singapore \"the worst disaster and largest capitulation in British history\".\n\nThe \"Kempeitai\" (the Japanese military police), which was the dominant occupation unit in Singapore, committed numerous atrocities towards the common people. They introduced the system of \"Sook Ching\", meaning \"purging through purification\" in Chinese, to get rid of those, especially so ethnic Chinese, deemed to be hostile to the Empire of Japan (anti-Japanese elements in the local population). The Sook Ching Massacre claimed the lives of between 25,000 and 55,000 ethnic Chinese in Singapore as well as in neighboring Malaya. These victims, mainly males between the ages of 18 to 50, were rounded up and taken to deserted spots and remote locations around the island, such as Changi Beach, Punggol Point, and Siglap and killed systematically using machine-guns and rifles. Moreover, the \"Kempeitai\" established an island-wide network of local informants to help them identify those they suspected as anti-Japanese. These informers were well-paid by the \"Kempeitai\" and had no fear of being arrested for their loyalty was not in question to the occupation forces. These informers worked at Kempeitai screening centres where the Japanese attempted to single out anti-Japanese elements for execution. Japanese soldiers and Kempeitai officers patrolled the streets often and all commoners had to bow to them with respect when they passed by. Those who failed to do so would be slapped, punished, beaten and some people would even be taken away to imprisonment or even face execution.\n\nTo discourage Western influence, which Japan sought to eliminate from the very start of their invasion, the Japanese set up schools and education institutions and pressured the local people to learn their language (Japanese). Textbooks and language guidebooks were printed in Japanese and radios and movies were broadcast and screened in Japanese. Every morning, school-children had to stand facing the direction of Japan (in the case of Singapore, looking northeast) and sing the Japanese national anthem (\"Kimigayo\"). Japanese propaganda banners and posters also went up all around Singapore, as did many Japanese Rising Sun flags raised and hung across many major buildings.\n\nBasic resources, ranging from food to medication, were scarce during the occupation. The prices of basic necessities increased drastically over the three and a half years due to hyperinflation. For example, the price of rice increased from $5 per 100 catties (about ) to $5,000 by the end of the occupation between August and September 1945. The Japanese issued ration cards, also known as \"Peace Living Certificates\" to limit the amount of resources distributed to the civilian population. Adults could purchase of rice per month and children received accordingly. The amount of rice for adults was reduced by 25% as the war progressed, as much of the scarce rice supplies were sent to feed the Japanese military.\n\nThe Japanese issued \"Banana Money\" (so referred to due to the image of a banana tree printed on most of such notes of the currency) as their main currency during the occupation period since British Straits currency became rarer and was subsequently phased out when the Japanese took over in 1942. They instituted elements of a command economy in which there were restrictions on the demand and supply of resources, thus creating a popular black market from which the locals could obtain key scarce resources such as rice, meat, and medicine. The \"Banana\" currency started to suffer from high inflation and dropped drastically in value because the occupation authorities would simply print more whenever they needed it; consequently on the black market, Straits currency was more widely used.\n\nFood availability and quality decreased greatly. Sweet potatoes, tapiocas and yams became the staple food of most diets of many Singaporeans because they were considerably cheaper than rice and could also be grown fast and easily in backyard gardens. They were then turned into a variety of dishes, as both desserts and all three meals of the day. Such foods helped to fend starvation off, with limited success in terms of nutrients gained, and new ways of consuming sweet potatoes, tapiocas and yams with other products were regularly invented and created to help stave off the monotony. Both the British colonial and Japanese occupation authorities encouraged their local population to grow their own food even if they had the smallest amount of land. The encouragement and production were similar to what occurred with \"Victory Gardens\" in Western nations (predominantly in Europe) during World War II as food supplies grew ever more scarce. \"Ipomoea aquatica\", which grew relatively easily and flourished relatively well near water sources, became a popular food-crop just as it did the other vegetables,\n\nAfter taking Singapore, the Japanese established the , to educate Malays, Chinese, Indians, and Eurasians in the Japanese language. Faye Yuan Kleeman, the author of \"Under an Imperial Sun: Japanese Colonial Literature of Taiwan and the South\" wrote that it was the most successful of such schools in Southeast Asia. During the occupation, the Japanese had also opened the Shonan First People's School.\n\nSingapore was the target of various operations masterminded by Allied forces to disrupt Japanese military activities. On 26 September 1943, an Allied commando unit known as Z Force led by Major Ivan Lyon infiltrated Singapore Harbour and sank or damaged seven Japanese ships comprising over . Lyon led another operation, codenamed \"Rimau\", with the same objective almost a year later and sank three ships. Lyon and 13 of his men were killed fighting the Japanese. The other 10 men who participated in the operation were captured, charged with espionage in a kangaroo court and subsequently executed.\n\nLim Bo Seng of Force 136 led another operation, code-named \"Gustavus\", he recruited and trained hundreds of secret agents through intensive military intelligence missions from China and India. He set up the Sino-British guerrilla task force Force 136 in 1942 with Captain John Davis of the Special Operations Executive (SOE).\nOperation Gustavus was aimed at establishing an espionage network in Malaya and Singapore to gather intelligence about Japanese activities, and thereby aid the British in Operation Zipper – the code name for their plan to take back Singapore from the Japanese. Force 136 was eventually disbanded after the war.\n\nIn August 1945, two XE class midget submarines of the Royal Navy took part in Operation Struggle, a plan to infiltrate Singapore Harbour and sabotage the Japanese cruisers and using limpet mines. They inflicted heavy damage on \"Takao\", earning Lieutenant Ian Edward Fraser the Victoria Cross. From November 1944 to May 1945, Singapore was subjected to air raids by British and American long-range bomber units.\n\nNaval facilities and docks in Singapore were also bombed on eleven occasions by American air units between November 1944 and May 1945. These attacks caused some damage to their targets but also killed a number of civilians. Most Singaporeans, however, welcomed the raids as they were seen as heralding Singapore's liberation from Japanese rule.\n\nOn 6 August 1945, the United States detonated an atomic bomb over the Japanese city of Hiroshima. Sixteen hours later, American President Harry S. Truman called again for Japan's surrender, warning them to \"expect a rain of ruin from the air, the like of which has never been seen on this earth.\" 8 August 1945, the Soviet Union declared war on and on 9 August 1945, the Soviet Union invaded the Imperial Japanese puppet state of Manchukuo. Later in the day, the United States dropped a second atomic bomb, this time on the Japanese city of Nagasaki. Following these events, Emperor Hirohito intervened and ordered the Supreme Council for the Direction of the War to accept the terms the Allies had set down in the Potsdam Declaration for ending the war. After several more days of behind-the-scenes negotiations and a failed coup d'état, Emperor Hirohito gave a recorded radio address across the Empire on 15 August. In the radio address, called the Jewel Voice Broadcast (玉音放送 Gyokuon-hōsō), he announced the surrender of Japan to the Allies.\n\nThe surrender ceremony was held on 2 September, aboard the United States Navy battleship USS Missouri, at which officials from the Japanese government signed the Japanese Instrument of Surrender, thereby ending the hostilities.\n\nOn 12 September 1945, a surrender instrument was signed at the Singapore Municipal Building. This was followed by a celebration at the Padang, which included a victory parade. Lord Louis Mountbatten, Supreme Allied Commander of South East Asia Command, came to Singapore to receive the formal surrender of the Japanese forces in the region from General Seishirō Itagaki on behalf of General Hisaichi Terauchi. A British military administration, using surrendered Japanese troops as security forces, was formed to govern the island until March 1946.\n\nAfter the Japanese surrendered, there was a state of instability anomie in Singapore, as the British had not yet arrived to take control. The Japanese occupiers had a considerably weakened hold over the populace. There were widespread incidents of looting and revenge-killing. Much of the infrastructure had been wrecked, including the harbour facilities and electricity, water supply and telephone services. It took four or five years for the economy to return to pre-war levels. When British troops finally arrived, they were met with cheering and fanfare.\n\nBanana money became worthless after the occupation ended.\n\nTo keep alive the memory of the Japanese occupation and its lessons learned for future generations, the Singapore government erected several memorials with some at the former massacre sites:\n\nSpearheaded and managed by the Singapore Chinese Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Civilian War Memorial is located in the War Memorial Park at Beach Road. Comprising four white concrete columns, this 61 meters tall memorial commemorates the civilian dead of all races. It was built after thousands of remains were discovered all over Singapore during the urban redevelopment boom in the early 1960s. The memorial was officially unveiled by Singapore's first prime minister Lee Kuan Yew on the 25th anniversary of the start of the Japanese occupation in 1967. It was constructed with part of the S$50 million 'blood debt' compensation paid by the Japanese government in October 1966. Speaking at the unveiling ceremony, Lee said:\n\nOn 15 February every year, memorial services (opened to the public) are held at the memorial.\n\nThe site of this monument lies within the compound of the Hong Lim Complex in Chinatown. The inscription on the monument reads:\n\nThe site of this monument is located in Changi Beach Park (near Camp Site 2) in the eastern part of Singapore. The inscription on the monument reads:\n\nThe site of this monument is located off Punggol Road in northeastern Singapore. The inscription on the monument reads:\n\nThe Japanese occupation of Singapore has been depicted in media and popular culture, including films, television series and books\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263492", "title": "Scalix", "text": "Scalix\n\nScalix is an e-mail and groupware server that runs on Linux, licensed under the Scalix Public License (SPL).\n\nScalix provides e-mail, group calendaring and other collaborative software, which are standard in groupware. It can be accessed from many different clients, most notably Microsoft Outlook, Novell Evolution (formerly Ximian) and Scalix Web Access, an AJAX-based web email and calendaring client that combines the functionality of desktop email with the ease-of-use of a browser.\n\nScalix was released by Scalix Corporation, based in California, with offices in New York City, Germany, the United Kingdom, Malaysia, Poland, Brazil and Japan, and contract operations in India, Russia and the United Kingdom. The code is based on the earlier HP OpenMail product, which was licensed from Hewlett-Packard.\n\nScalix Corporation was founded by Julie Hanna in 2002, during her tenure as an Entrepreneur In Residence (EIR) at Mayfield Fund. She served as the company's first CEO. The company was funded by venture firms New Enterprise Associates (NEA), Mohr Davidow Ventures (MDV) and Mayfield Fund.\n\nIn July 2007, the company was purchased by Xandros and in July 2011 sold to Sebring Software Inc, a collaborative integration software company offering on-premises and cloud solutions.\n\nOn November 11, 2013, a press release announced a management buy-out and the concurrent release of version 12.0.\n\nScalix includes and provides the following components as part of its offerings:\nScalix comes in several different editions: Enterprise, Small Business, Hosted, Community and Raw, the latter two being free software.\n\nScalix Inc. claims there are 250 Scalix-capable partners and affiliates, worldwide.\n\nThe Scalix Public License is based on the Mozilla Public License (MPL); the modifications have not been approved by the Open Source Initiative. The SPL adds an appendix (exhibit b) to the MPL requiring that any products derived from Scalix source code display a \"Scalix\" logo that links back to the Scalix website, and a copyright notice \"in the same form as the latest version of the Covered Code distributed by Scalix at the time of distribution of such copy\"; see the license for details.\n\nScalix had a difficult road getting the latest version out, with a maintenance update, announced for Q4/2011, and a major release, announced for Q1/2012, not being released. After an over-three-year-long wait, the next major release of Scalix, version 12 was released on November 11, 2013, with support included for Outlook 2010 and 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263499", "title": "Digital clock", "text": "Digital clock\n\nA digital clock is a type of clock that displays the time digitally (i.e. in numerals or other symbols), as opposed to an analogue clock, where the time is indicated by the positions of rotating hands.\n\nDigital clocks are often associated with electronic drives, but the \"digital\" description refers only to the display, not to the drive mechanism. (Both analogue and digital clocks can be driven either mechanically or electronically, but \"clockwork\" mechanisms with digital displays are rare).\n\nThe first digital pocket watch was the invention of Austrian engineer Josef Pallweber who created his \"jump-hour\" mechanism in 1883. Instead of a conventional dial, the jump-hour featured two windows in an enamel dial, through which the hours and minutes are visible on rotating discs. The second hand remained conventional. By 1885 Pallweber mechanism was already on the market in pocket watches by Cortébert and IWC; arguably contributing to the subsequent rise and commercial success of IWC. The principles of Pallweber jump-hour movement had appeared in wristwatches by the 1920s (Cortébert) and are still used today (Chronoswiss Digiteur). While the original inventor didn't have a watch brand at the time, his name has since been resurrected by a newly established watch manufacturer.\n\nPlato clocks used a similar idea but a different layout. These spring-wound pieces consisted of a glass cylinder with a column inside, affixed to which were small digital cards with numbers printed on them, which flipped as time passed. The Plato clocks were introduced at the St. Louis World Fair in 1904, produced by Ansonia Clock Company. Eugene Fitch of New York patented the clock design in 1903.\n13 years earlier Josef Pallweber had patented the same invention using digital cards (different from his 1885 patent using moving disks) in Germany (DRP No. 54093).\nThe German factory Aktiengesellschaft für Uhrenfabrikation Lenzkirch made such digital clocks in 1893 and 1894.\n\nThe earliest patent for a digital alarm clock was registered by D.E Protzmann and others on October 23, 1956, in the United States. Protzmann and his associates also patented another digital clock in 1970, which was said to use a minimal amount of moving parts. Two side-plates held digital numerals between them, while an electric motor and cam gear outside controlled movement.\n\nIn 1970, the first digital wristwatch with an LED display was mass-produced. Called the Pulsar, and produced by the Hamilton Watch Company, this watch was hinted at two years prior when the same company created a prototype digital watch for Kubrick's \"\".\nThroughout the 1970s, despite the initial hefty cost of digital watches, the popularity of said devices steadily rose.\n\nOver the years, many different types of digital alarm clocks have been developed.\n\nIn the Soviet Union, the 7-segment digital clocks were known as Elektronika 7.\n\nDigital clocks typically use the 50 or 65 hertz oscillation of AC power or a 32,768 hertz crystal oscillator as in a quartz clock to keep time. Most digital clocks display the hour of the day in 24-hour format; in the United States and a few other countries, a commonly used hour sequence option is 12-hour format (with some indication of AM or PM). Some timepieces, such as many digital watches, can be switched between 12-hour and 24-hour modes. Emulations of analog-style faces often use an LCD screen, and these are also sometimes described as \"digital\".\n\nTo represent the time, most digital clocks use a seven-segment LED, VFD, or LCD for each of four digits. They generally also include other elements to indicate whether the time is AM or PM, whether or not an alarm is set, and so on.\n\nIf people find difficulty in setting the time in some designs of digital clocks in electronic devices where the clock is not a critical function, they may not be set at all, displaying the default after powered on, 00:00 or 12:00.\n\nBecause they run on electricity, digital clocks often need to be reset whenever the power is cut off, even for a very brief period of time. This is a particular problem with alarm clocks that have no \"battery\" backup, because a power outage during the night usually prevents the clock from triggering the alarm in the morning.\n\nTo reduce the problem, many devices designed to operate on household electricity incorporate a battery backup to maintain the time during power outages and during times of disconnection from the power supply. More recently, some devices incorporate a method for automatically setting the time, such as using a broadcast radio time signal from an atomic clock, getting the time from an existing satellite television or computer connection, or by being set at the factory and then maintaining the time from then on with a quartz movement powered by an internal rechargeable battery.\nCommercial digital clocks are typically more reliable than consumer clocks. Multi-decade backup batteries can be used to maintain time during power loss.\n\nBecause digital clocks can be very small and inexpensive devices that enhance the popularity of product designs, they are often incorporated into all kinds of devices such as cars, radios, televisions, microwave ovens, standard ovens, computers and cell phones. Sometimes their usefulness is disputed: a common complaint is that when time has to be set to Daylight Saving Time, many household clocks have to be readjusted. The incorporation of automatic synchronization by a radio time signal is reducing this problem (see Radio clock).\n\n"}
{"id": "2263501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263501", "title": "Fox Valley (Illinois)", "text": "Fox Valley (Illinois)\n\nThe Fox Valley—also commonly known as the Fox River Valley—is a region centered on the Fox River of Northern Illinois, along the western edges of the Chicago metropolitan area. The region extends from the village of Antioch in far northern Illinois, to the city of Ottawa in the south. It includes rural areas, suburban development, and 19th-century downtowns. Around 1 million people live in this area.\n\nNative American tribes that historically lived in this region include the Potawatomi, Sac, and Fox tribes.\n\nSome of cities in the Fox River Valley are part of the Rust Belt. Within this region is Aurora, the second largest city in the state, Elgin, and the nearby cities of Batavia, St. Charles, and Geneva, which have been known as the Tri-City area since the early 20th century.\n\nThe following is a list of cities and villages from north to south, along the Fox River Valley:\n"}
{"id": "2263503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263503", "title": "Bicton, Western Australia", "text": "Bicton, Western Australia\n\nBicton is a riverside suburb of Perth, Western Australia, located south-west of the central business district. The suburb is mostly residential, and falls within the City of Melville local government area. Bicton borders the Swan River to the north, with the northern third of the suburb taken up by a Class-A reserve at Point Walter.\n\nOriginally settled in the 1830s, when a large vineyard was established, Bicton was mainly rural until the subdivision of the former Bicton Racecourse, beginning in 1919. Further subdivisions of the Castle Hill area in 1921 established the suburb as a middle-class area of Fremantle. Bicton underwent further expansion after the conclusion of World War II, and is now one of the most affluent riverside suburbs in Perth.\n\nPrior to European settlement, the Beeliar subgroup of the indigenous Noongar people obtained food and drinking water from the river edges and open grassy areas. The sandbar at Point Walter was used as one of the few river crossing between the mouth of the river and The Narrows. The area around Point Walter was known as \"Dyoondalup\" in the local language, meaning \"place of white sand\", and featured in local creation myths. The area along the East Fremantle and Bicton foreshores, extending into Blackwall Reach, was called \"Quaada gabee, meaning \"beautiful water\", and included a number of freshwater springs.\n\nThe Swan River Colony was declared by Charles Fremantle in April 1829, however, Bicton was not settled until 1830, when four land grants were given to John Hole Duffield, who had arrived on the \"Warrior\" in March 1830, Alfred Waylen, Joseph Cooper and William Hapgood. The area was named after the village of Bicton in East Devon, where Duffield had previously had an estate. Duffield planted the colony's first commercially-operating vineyard, comprising 5,700 vines, in 1845. His son, James Hole Duffield, and another worker, John Luff, died on 30 March 1860 after they were buried alive in what the \"Perth Gazette\" called \"a lamentable accident\" while attempting to sink a well on Duffield's property.\n\nThe Bicton Racecourse was established in 1904 on land leased by the Higham family after the closure of the South Fremantle Racecourse. The course was closed in 1917 after the passing of the \"WA Racing Restrictions Act\". The former racecourse was subdivided into suburban blocks in 1919, and the Castle Hill area, close to Point Walter, was subdivided in 1921 by Gold Estates. Further development occurred after the conclusion of the Second World War.\n\nBicton is bounded by Petra Street to the west, Stock Road to the east, Canning Highway to the south and the Swan River to the north (Melville Water) and northwest (Blackwall Reach). Apart from the reserve and golf course at Point Walter, almost all of Bicton is residential. Bicton is one of the most hilly coastal suburbs of Perth, with Castle Hill the most prominent hill. The suburb has several beaches, most notably at Bicton Baths, Point Walter and along the Bicton foreshore. The suburb lies on the Swan Coastal Plain. Much of Bicton is situated on limestone base-rock, with the cliffs at Blackwall Reach composed entirely of limestone. Many houses, especially those built around the turn of the 19th and 20th centuries, were built on limestone foundations quarried from Bicton. Bicton's soil is generally sandy and infertile.\n\nThe Bicton foreshore has been a popular place for families to visit. Barely 20 metres from Bicton Baths is a grass area with a square jetty that is a popular destination for swimming, fishing and other water activities.\n\nThe Melville Water Polo Club and Bicton Swimming Club are based at Bicton Pool overlooking the river, which was established as a baths in 1926 by the swimming club. Two teams competing in the Australian National Water Polo League, the Fremantle Mariners (men's), and the Fremantle Marlins (women's), play their home games at the pool. The Tom Hoad Cup, an international water polo tournament, has been held yearly since 2003 at the pool. A cricket club, the Bicton Junior Cricket Club, was originally formed for school- and church-run competitions around 1923. The club is currently based at Troy Park in Attadale but still plays occasional games at Bicton Primary School.\n\nThree shopping facilities are located in the suburb, as well as a strip mall extending along most of Canning Highway. Two churches – St. Christophers Anglican Church and Bicton Presbyterian Church – are located within the borders of Bicton, while the Bicton Uniting Church is located in the neighbouring suburb of Palmyra. Three aged care facilities – Carinya of Bicton, Braemar Lodge and Craigview Grove are located in Bicton. The Bicton-Palmyra subchapter of the Returned and Services League (RSL) is located on Foss Street. The Leopold Hotel is located on the corner of Point Walter Road and Canning Highway, and was listed on the Statewide Hotel Survey undertaken by the Heritage Council of Western Australia in 1999. There are also a number of residences, facilities and reserves listed with the Heritage Council. A quarantine station operated by the Australian Quarantine and Inspection Service, Fremantle Quarantine Station, opened in 1916 to service the port of Fremantle. The station close in 1983, moving to Byford, with part of the land being subdivided and the rest becoming the Quarantine Park, with the jetty converted to use for recreational purposes.\n\nThere are five public parks operated by the City of Melville located in Bicton: Bicton Quarantine Park, Fred Jones Reserve, Harry Grose Reserve, John Dickinson Reserve, and Rod Campbell Park, as well as reserves located at Bicton Baths (including Bicton Pool), Blackwall Reach and Point Walter. An eight-hole golf course, Point Walter Golf Course, and tennis courts, are also located at Point Walter. The suburb also includes several playgrounds and bicycle and walking paths along the shores of the Swan River.\n\nThe suburb contains one state-run primary school, Bicton Primary School, established in 1904 and located on View Terrace. As of semester one, 2011, the school has a total enrolment of 410 students, consisting of 40 kindergarten, 54 pre-primary, and 316 primary students. Bicton is occasionally used by the local community, and shares the hosting of an annual fête with other local schools. The school is located within the catchment area of Melville Senior High School, having previously fallen within the John Curtin College of the Arts catchment area. Bicton Primary School is used as a polling booth by the Western Australian Electoral Commission for both state and federal elections. A small tornado in May 2005 caused significant damage in the Bicton area, causing $6 million damage to the school. This resulted in the closure of the school for four weeks.\n\nCanning Highway, running between Fremantle and The Causeway in Victoria Park, makes up the southern border of the suburb. Other major roads include Petra Street, making up the western border, Stock Road, making up the eastern border, and Preston Point Road, running through the suburb. Bicton is served by the 148 and 158 Transperth bus routes from Fremantle station, as well as services along Canning Highway, the 910 (previously the 106) and the 111. The 765 school special runs through Bicton during the school term. All services are operated by Swan Transit.\n\nA tramway network, Fremantle Municipal Tramways, operated a branch line to Point Walter between 1915 and 1939, by way of Canning Road and Point Walter Road. The opening of this line helped to develop Point Walter into a popular resort and place of entertainment. Along with the trams came electric lighting, and, soon afterwards, shops and restaurants. Entertainment at Point Walter included McNamara's Band, and panoramic views of the Swan River.\n\nBicton has one polling booth in federal and state elections, located at Bicton Primary School. At federal level, Bicton is located within the Division of Tangney. At state level, Bicton is located in the district of Bicton, which was created for the 2017 state election. In the Western Australian Legislative Council, Bicton falls into the electoral region of South Metropolitan. At local government level, Bicton is part of the Bicton-Attadale Ward of the City of Melville, along with Attadale. Bicton-Attadale elects two councillors, currently June Barton (term expiring 2013) and Susanne Taylor-Rees (term expiring 2015).\n\n"}
{"id": "2263508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263508", "title": "John Fox (American football)", "text": "John Fox (American football)\n\nJohn Fox (born February 8, 1955) is a former American football coach and player. He was the head coach of the Carolina Panthers, Denver Broncos and Chicago Bears of the National Football League (NFL). He coached the Panthers to a NFC Championship and the Broncos to an AFC Championship.\n\nFox played football at Castle Park High School in Chula Vista, California under local celebrated coaches Gil Warren and Reldon \"Bing\" Dawson, and Southwestern College also in Chula Vista from 1974–1975, before going to San Diego State, where he played defensive back with future NFL player and head coach Herman Edwards. Fox received a bachelor's degree in physical education and earned teaching credentials from San Diego State. He then proceeded to the NFL as a free agent and signed a two-year contract with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. After that contract was over he retired from the NFL.\n\nFox was defensive backs coach at U.S. International University. Sid Gillman, past head coach of the San Diego Chargers, was the athletic director at the time. In 1980, Fox was the defensive backs coach for the Boise State University Broncos when they won the NCAA Division I-AA Football Championship. In 1983, Fox was a member of Mike Gottfried's University of Kansas staff, as the secondary coach. Fox followed Gottfried to the University of Pittsburgh when Gottfried became Head Coach at Pitt in 1986. Fox was first the Defensive Backs coach and then was promoted to Defensive Coordinator by Gottfried. While at Pitt, Fox made some contacts with Pittsburgh Steeler coaches and when Gottfried was let go by Pitt, Fox got his first NFL coaching gig with the Steelers.\n\nFox began his first professional football coaching stint in the short-lived United States Football League with the Los Angeles Express in 1985.\n\nHe entered the NFL in 1989 as the secondary coach of the Pittsburgh Steelers, later also holding this job with the San Diego Chargers. Fox was the defensive coordinator for the Los Angeles Raiders and later that of the New York Giants during Super Bowl XXXV, which they lost.\n\nIn 2002, Fox was signed as the third head coach of the Carolina Panthers, whose previous coach George Seifert had led the team to a disastrous 1-15 record in 2001, including 15 consecutive losses to end the season. Fox's first regular season game was a 10–7 victory over the Baltimore Ravens which ended the Panthers' 15-game losing streak dating to the previous season. Fox and the Panthers posted a 7–9 record for the 2002 season (his first with the team), demonstrating a drastic improvement over the previous season.\n\nIn the 2003 season Fox led the Panthers to Super Bowl XXXVIII, losing 32–29 to the New England Patriots on a last-second field goal by Adam Vinatieri. Fox joined Vince Lombardi as the only other coach to inherit a team that had won only one game in the season prior, and then take that team to an NFL Championship game. Fox also took the Carolina Panthers to the NFC Championship game in the 2005 season, but they were defeated by the Seattle Seahawks.\n\nThe 2006 season was disappointing for Fox and the Panthers, as a team that had Super Bowl aspirations finished 8-8 and out of the playoffs.\n\nThe 2007 season saw the team finish with a record of 7–9, before finishing with a 12–4 record in the 2008 season, again heading to the playoffs in which they were beaten by the Arizona Cardinals.\n\nThe 2009 season was disappointing to Fox and the Panthers much like 2006. The Panthers finished the season 8-8 and in third place in the NFC South division, missing the playoffs again.\n\nThe 2010 season saw the Panthers finish last in the league, at 2–14. As of this time, Fox was one of only two coaches, and the only one as a head coach, still working on the NFL sidelines that was once a member of former Pittsburgh Steelers head coach Chuck Noll's coaching staff, the other being Minnesota Vikings wide receivers coach George Stewart. Tom Moore, currently an offensive consultant for the Arizona Cardinals, is still active in the league but works from home.\n\nOn December 31, 2010, Carolina Panthers owner Jerry Richardson announced that he would not be renewing Fox's contract at the conclusion of the 2010 season.\n\nOn January 13, 2011, Fox was selected to be the 14th head coach of the Denver Broncos. He was signed to a 4-year $14 million deal. He was chosen by the Broncos out of a list of five possible head coach candidates that included Broncos interim head coach and running backs coach Eric Studesville, Atlanta Falcons offensive coordinator Dirk Koetter, Houston Texans offensive coordinator Rick Dennison and New York Giants defensive coordinator Perry Fewell. Fox was chosen based on his previous head coaching experience plus his 20+ years as an NFL coach. At the conclusion of the 2011 season, the Broncos finished tied for 3rd in the NFL in sacks and 1st in rushing offense, again with Fox. \n\nIn April 2012, Fox received a three-year contract extension worth between $5 million and $6 million per year, replacing his contract that expired at the end of the 2014 NFL season.\n\nIn week two of the 2012 season, Fox was fined $30,000 for chiding the replacement officials. The Broncos would go on to win their last 11 games after a 2–3 start. In week 17 of the 2012 season, Fox won his 100th career game as an NFL head coach, including the playoffs, beating the Kansas City Chiefs 38–3. However, the Broncos were upset in the divisional playoffs to the Baltimore Ravens, in double-overtime.\n\nOwing to a cardiac-related issue, starting with week 10 of 2013, Fox was replaced by Broncos defensive coordinator Jack Del Rio as Fox underwent an aortic valve replacement. Fox, while playing golf in North Carolina near his offseason home in Charlotte during the Broncos bye week, reported feeling dizzy and was taken for examination to the hospital, where doctors told him not to put off valve replacement surgery any longer; he had done so earlier in the year to continue coaching this season. On November 4, Fox temporarily relinquished his head coaching duties, and Del Rio was named interim head coach for the remainder of the 2013 season regular season. Fox then underwent successful aortic valve replacement surgery.\n\nIn the 2013 NFL season, quarterback Peyton Manning threw for 5,477 yards and 55 touchdowns, both records, and the offense combined for 7,317 yards, also a record. Fox coached the Broncos to Super Bowl XLVIII, where they played the NFC champion Seattle Seahawks. He is one of four head coaches to win both an NFC and an AFC championship game along with Bill Parcells, Dan Reeves, and Andy Reid, and one of seven coaches to reach the Super Bowl with multiple teams. On February 2, 2014, the Broncos lost to the Seahawks 43–8.\n\nFox coached the Broncos to another strong season in 2014; the Broncos finished the regular season 12–4. They earned the AFC's number 2 seed and a first-round playoff bye. Hosting Peyton Manning's former team, the Indianapolis Colts at home in the Divisional Round, the Broncos were upset 24–13 and were eliminated from the playoffs.\n\nOn January 12, 2015, the day after Denver lost in the Divisional Round of the playoffs, Fox and the Broncos mutually agreed to part ways. Fox left the Broncos with the highest regular season win percentage in team history. However, general manager John Elway felt the Broncos hadn't shown enough fight at critical times in the playoffs.\n\nFox is only the second head coach in NFL history to win four straight division titles since joining a new team; the Broncos made the playoffs in all four years of Fox's coaching tenure.\n\nOn January 16, 2015, Fox accepted a four-year deal to become head coach of the Chicago Bears. Fox led the Bears to a 6–10 record in his first season, only the second time in his career where he had double-digit losses. In the third game of the season, a 26-0 road loss against the Seattle Seahawks, the Bears punted on all of its ten possessions, the only time a team has punted on all of its possessions at least since 1980.\n\nFox finished his second season with the Bears with a 3–13 record, tied for the worst record for the Bears since the NFL changed to a 16-game season.\n\nAfter a 1–3 start in 2017, Fox benched quarterback Mike Glennon in favor of rookie Mitchell Trubisky in Week 5. With Trubisky, the Bears finished the season 5–11, and Fox was fired at the season's end. His overall record with the Bears was 14–34, the second-lowest win percentage in franchise history, as the team failed to record a winning streak longer than two games and finished last in the NFC North in all three seasons. \"Thank you to all the players, coaches, the city of Chicago and Bears fans everywhere, your passion for the game and this team is unmatched in the NFL,\" Fox stated in a team release. \"Today is the tough part of our results-oriented business but I wish the Bears organization the best for years to come.\"\n\nOn March 20, 2018, ESPN announced that Fox would be hired to work as a studio analyst for NFL Live.\n\nFox was born in Virginia Beach, Virginia and raised in San Diego, California after moving there at age 15. His step-father, Ron, was a US Navy SEAL. Fox and his wife, Robin, have three sons and a daughter. Known to his friends as \"Foxy\", he is an active community leader in the Carolinas. He and his wife co-chair the annual Angels & Stars Gala, which benefits St. Jude Children's Research Hospital.\n"}
{"id": "2263524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263524", "title": "John Clark", "text": "John Clark\n\nJohn Clark may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263525", "title": "Dive (Sarah Brightman album)", "text": "Dive (Sarah Brightman album)\n\nDive is the third studio album by English soprano Sarah Brightman. It is her first album with producer Frank Peterson, and a marked departure from her previous operatic works. Its unifying theme is water and the ocean. Four of the songs are covers: \"Captain Nemo\" was originally recorded in 1990 by Dive; \"A Salty Dog\" in 1969 by Procol Harum; and \"Johnny Wanna Live\" in 1992 by Sandra. Likewise, \"Once in a Lifetime\" is a cover of the Gregorian song from 1991's \"Sadisfaction\", also produced by Frank Peterson, though with different lyrics alluding to BDSM.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263526", "title": "Ray Evernham", "text": "Ray Evernham\n\nRay Evernham (born August 26, 1957) is an American consultant for Hendrick Companies, formerly an auto racing crew chief for Bill Davis Racing and Hendrick Motorsports, owner of his own team Evernham Motorsports from 2001–2010, and analyst for ESPN's NASCAR coverage. A three time Winston Cup Series Champion with driver Jeff Gordon, in 1999, Evernham won the \"NASCAR Winston Cup Illustrated\" “Person of the Year”. Evernham was inducted to the NASCAR Hall of Fame, Class of 2018.\n\nEvernham was a modified racer. When he was 26 years old, he was hired by the International Race of Champions (IROC) as a chassis specialist. Drivers were impressed that he could translate what they were saying about the car's handling into technological adjustments.\n\nHe crashed at Flemington Speedway in the middle of the 1991 season. He damaged his brain stem, which left depth perception impairment. He said, \"When you wreck that bad, you don't remember anything about it.\" As a driver, he added, \"I couldn't meet my own expectations, and that frustrated the hell out of me.\" His accident prompted officials to put foam blocks in the corners to lessen impacts.\n\nEvernham started working for NASCAR driver Alan Kulwicki at the end of 1991. Their personalities clashed, and Evernham stayed with Kulwicki for six weeks before quitting at Daytona. As he was walking out of the garage area and NASCAR, Ford engineers Lee Morse and Preston Miller stopped him. They had worked directly with the Ford teams, including Kulwicki's, and they were impressed with Evernham. They suggested that Ford might find Evernham another assignment outside of NASCAR's top division (Winston Cup). Jeff Gordon had just become a Ford driver and he had mentioned that he would like to work with Evernham again. The two had worked briefly together in 1990, when Evernham had worked on some chassis setups for Gordon's Pontiac team. Evernham thought back to that brief time with Gordon, remembering, \"From the first day we ever worked together, boom! We hit it off. We had fun, we did good, he was what I wanted, and I was what he wanted.\" Gordon's owner, Bill Davis Racing, did not want to hire Evernham for their NASCAR Busch Series team. \"Bill Davis didn't want me,\" Evernham later recalled. \"But Ford paid my salary to go and work for Bill Davis, because Jeff wanted me there so bad.\"\n\nEvernham remained the crew chief for Gordon after he moved up into the Winston Cup Series for Hendrick Motorsports from the final race of the 1992 season to 1999. Gordon and Evernham won 47 Cup races, 3 Cup championships (1995, 1997, and 1998) and were the dominant team in NASCAR Cup competition at the time.\n\nFor his work as a crew chief, Evernham was voted into the NASCAR Hall of Fame's Class of 2018.\n\nAs the head of the \"Rainbow Warriors\" pit crew (named for the colorful DuPont Automotive Finishes, now known as Axalta Coating Systems, scheme), Evernham is considered one of the innovators in improving the duration and efficiency of pit stops, the period where a driver receives new tires, fuel, repairs, and adjustments to the handling of the car. Instead of using the teams mechanics as the pit crew, Evernham created a group of specialists (often former athletes) who would train to perfect their assigned task (tire changing, tire carrying, jacking up the car, etc...). Much like professional sports teams, Evernham incorporated choreography, put his crew members through strength and agility training, and analyzed pit stops on film between races to point out spots where his crew excelled or could improve. These methods led to the car spending less time in the pits, gaining spots on the race track. Evernham is credited with changing the expected duration of a 4-tire pit stop from over 20 seconds to less than 15.\n\nEvernham left Hendrick Motorsports and Gordon/Evernham Motorsports in 1999 to form his own team, Evernham Motorsports. The team ran debuted in the Winston Cup Series in 2000 out of Bill Elliott's race shop in a limited schedule with Casey Atwood. Evernham was also tabbed by Daimler Chrysler to bring Dodge back into prominence in NASCAR’s elite racing series, leading the development of the Intrepid R/T race car that debuted in 2001. The team operated with direct factory backing and sponsorship from the nearly 3,000 Dodge Dealers, the Mopar performance brand, and the UAW. Evernham fielded cars in the Sprint Cup Series, Nationwide Series, and Craftsman Truck Series, as well as in the ARCA, USAC and Dodge Weekly Racing Series. Drivers for the team included Elliott, Atwood, Jeremy Mayfield, Kasey Kahne, Elliott Sadler, Erin Crocker, Patrick Carpentier, and Chase Miller.\n\nOn August 6, 2007, it was announced that George N. Gillett Jr. had purchased a majority share in the team, and that the name had been changed to Gillett Evernham Motorsports. On January 9, 2009, GEM then completed a merger with Petty Enterprises and brought the team's famous No. 43 car into the fold, changing the name once again to Richard Petty Motorsports. Late in the 2009 season, RPM announced that it was to merge with Yates Racing, leaving Dodge to run Ford Fusions. In late 2010, the team was bought out by Richard Petty and several investment groups, and Evernham sold his remaining share in the operation.\n\nIn May 2011 Evernham sued Gillett Jr., alleging that Gillett did not fulfill his responsibilities as co-owner, Gillett's management problems led to the demise of the team and that in the process, he lost $19 million. In 2012 the suit was settled under undisclosed terms.\n\nEvernham has dipped into television several times as an analyst. He has worked three separate stints for ESPN/ABC: in 2000, 2008–2010, and 2012–2013. He has worked both race coverage and studio coverage at various points.\n\nEvernham is host of the show \"AmeriCARna\" on Velocity.\n\nEvernham currently works on NBCSN as a color analyst and is paired up with Ralph Sheheen on broadcasts of the Whelen Modified Tour and Whelen Southern Modified Tour.\n\nDuring the 2006 season, former Evernham driver Jeremy Mayfield was fired from the No. 19 car for 'lack of performance,' as stated by the Evernham team. Court documents reveal that Mayfield blames Evernham's personal life, included a claim that a \"close personal relationship\" had developed between the then-married Evernham and development driver Erin Crocker, and \"sub-par\" equipment as the reasons he had not won a race in 2006. Evernham admitted that he had an ongoing relationship with Crocker. Furthermore, he said about Crocker, \"The proper thing to do and something her and I would like to do is move her to another race team.\" Evernham and Crocker eventually were married at a private ceremony in Las Vegas on August 26, 2009.\n\nEvernham is also known for a 1995 penalty which was then the largest fine in NASCAR history. The $60,000 fine ($ today) was imposed for using unapproved suspension parts on Jeff Gordon's car in a May 1995 race. The fine was not eclipsed until Michael Waltrip Racing's $100,000 fine in February 2007, later surpassed by Carl Long's $200,000 fine in May 2009 and the $300,000 fine (and other points penalties) in September 2013 for the Spingate controversy of multiple teams.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263529", "title": "Keeper of the Seven Keys: The Legacy", "text": "Keeper of the Seven Keys: The Legacy\n\nKeeper of the Seven Keys: The Legacy is the eleventh studio album by German power metal band Helloween, released in 2005. It is the first album with new and current drummer Dani Löble and a continuation to their 1987 and 1988 albums \"\" and \"\". The album is a double CD with nearly 80 minutes playing time and comes in a digipack with 6 flaps. It was produced by Charlie Bauerfeind (Blind Guardian, Halford, Rage) and features Blackmore's Night singer Candice Night on the track \"Light The Universe\".\n\nWhen asked about what inspired them to make a third \"Keeper\" album, bassist Markus Grosskopf said:\n\nThe intro of the song \"Occasion Avenue\" uses samples from \"Halloween\", \"Eagle Fly Free\" and \"Keeper of the Seven Keys\" with Michael Kiske on vocals. One of the samples is a clip from a previously unreleased live version of \"Keys\" with Kiske singing the first part of the chorus and the crowd joining in.\n\n\nGuest musicians\n\n"}
{"id": "2263532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263532", "title": "Vernal Fall", "text": "Vernal Fall\n\nVernal Fall is a waterfall on the Merced River just downstream of Nevada Fall in Yosemite National Park, California. Like its upstream neighbor, Vernal Fall is clearly visible at a distance, from Glacier Point, as well as close up, along the Mist Trail. The waterfall flows all year long, although by the end of summer it is substantially reduced in volume and can split into multiple strands, rather than a single curtain of water.\n\n\"Yan-o-pah\" (\"little cloud\") was the local name of the fall before it was named \"Vernal\"- meaning relating to Spring - by Lafayette Bunnell, a member of the Mariposa Battalion in 1851.\n\nThe trail begins at the Happy Isles trail head in Yosemite Valley and travels generally east-southeast. This is one of the shortest () and most popular trails in Yosemite. The trail is mostly shaded and is progressive in incline until it reaches the base of the waterfall where mist sprays onto the hikers.\n\nAt times of high flow, mostly in the spring, hikers may be drenched by the time they pass the mist from the waterfall. The final 15 minutes of the trail is a very steep climb up rocks to the top of the waterfall. Once atop the falls there is a pool of water called the Emerald Pool around which hikers lounge and rest. There is also a 20 degree slope of rock with water flowing into the pool called the Silver Apron.\n\nSwimming above Vernal Fall carries a great deal of risk: the rocks are slippery, the river has strong undercurrents that may not be visible from the surface, and tourists have been swept over the fall to their deaths. Though swimming there is illegal and warnings to stay out of the water are clearly posted, several deaths have occurred when visitors entered the water above the fall in the vicinity of the Silver Apron and Emerald Pool. Three people died in a single day, on July 19, 2011, after being swept over Vernal Fall in this manner.\n\nThe fall is shown in error on a 1932 Philippines stamp. Although the stamp indicates that it depicts Pagsanjan Falls in the Philippines, it in fact shows Vernal Fall.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263533", "title": "Upādāna", "text": "Upādāna\n\nUpādāna is a Vedic Sanskrit and Pali word that means \"fuel, material cause, substrate that is the source and means for keeping an active process energized\". It is also an important Buddhist concept referring to \"attachment, clinging, grasping\". It is considered to be the result of \"taṇhā\" (craving), and is part of the \"dukkha\" (suffering, pain) doctrine in Buddhism.\n\nThe term \"Upādāna\" appears in the sense of \"material cause\" in ancient Vedic and medieval Hindu texts. For medieval era Vaishnavism scholar Ramanuja, the metaphysical Hindu concept of Brahman (as Vishnu) is the \"upadana-karana\" (material cause) of the universe. However, other Hindu traditions such as the Advaita Vedanta disagree and assert alternate theories on the nature of metaphysical Brahman and the universe while using the term \"upadana\" in the sense of \"substrate, fuel\".\n\nMore generally, the realist Hindu philosophies such as Samkhya and Nyaya have asserted that Brahman is the \"Upādāna\" of the phenomenal world. The philosophies within the Buddhist schools have denied Brahman, asserted impermanence and that the notion of anything real is untenable from a metaphysical sense. The Hindu traditions such as those influenced by Advaita Vedanta have asserted the position that everything (Atman, Brahman, Prakriti) is ultimately one identical reality. The concept \"Upādāna\" also appears with other sense of meanings, in Vedanta philosophies, such as \"taking in\".\n\nUpādāna is the Sanskrit and Pāli word for \"clinging\", \"attachment\" or \"grasping\", although the literal meaning is \"fuel\". Upādāna and taṇhā (Skt. \"tṛṣṇā\") are seen as the two primary causes of suffering. The cessation of clinging leads to Nirvana.\n\nIn the Sutta Pitaka, the Buddha states that there are four types of clinging:\nThe Buddha once stated that, while other sects might provide an appropriate analysis of the first three types of clinging, he alone fully elucidated clinging to the \"self\" and its resultant suffering.\n\nThe Abhidhamma and its commentaries provide the following definitions for these four clinging types:\nAccording to Buddhaghosa, the above ordering of the four types of clinging is in terms of decreasing \"grossness\", that is, from the most obvious (grossest) type of clinging (sense-pleasure clinging) to the subtlest (self-doctrine clinging).\n\nBuddhaghosa further identifies that these four clinging types are causally interconnected as follows:\nThis hierarchy of clinging types is represented diagrammatically to the right.\n\nThus, based on Buddhaghosa's analysis, clinging is more fundamentally an erroneous core belief (self-doctrine clinging) than a habitualized affective experience (sense-pleasure clinging).\n\nIn terms of consciously knowable mental experiences, the Abhidhamma identifies sense-pleasure clinging with the mental factor of \"greed\" (\"lobha\") and the other three types of clinging (self-doctrine, wrong-view and rites-and-rituals clinging) with the mental factor of \"wrong view\" (\"ditthi\"). Thus, experientially, clinging can be known through the Abhidhamma's fourfold definitions of these mental factors as indicated in the following table:\n\nTo distinguish craving from clinging, Buddhaghosa uses the following metaphor:\nThus, for instance, when the Buddha talks about the \"aggregates of clinging,\" he is referring to our grasping and guarding physical, mental and conscious experiences that we falsely believe we are or possess.\n\nIn the Four Noble Truths, the First Noble Truth identifies clinging (\"upādāna\", in terms of \"the aggregates of clinging\") as one of the core experiences of suffering. The Second Noble Truth identifies craving (\"tanha\") as the basis for suffering. In this manner a causal relationship between craving and clinging is found in the Buddha's most fundamental teaching.\n\nIn the twelve-linked chain of Dependent Origination (Pratītyasamutpāda, \"also see\" Twelve Nidanas), clinging (\"upādāna\") is the ninth causal link:\n\n\n\nAccording to Buddhaghosa, it is \"sense-pleasure\" clinging that arises from craving and that conditions becoming.\n\nProfessor Richard F. Gombrich has pointed out in several publications, and in his recent Numata Visiting Professor Lectures at the University of London, School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS), that the literal meaning of \"upādāna\" is \"fuel\". He uses this to link the term to the Buddha's use of fire as a metaphor. In the so-called Fire Sermon (\"Āditta-pariyāya\") (Vin I, 34-5; SN 35.28) the Buddha tells the bhikkhus that everything is on fire. By everything he tells them he means the five senses plus the mind, their objects, and the operations and feelings they give rise to — i.e. everything means the totality of experience. All these are burning with the fires of greed, hatred and delusion.\n\nIn the nidana chain, then, craving creates \"fuel\" for continued burning or becoming (bhava). The mind like fire, seeks out more fuel to sustain it, in the case of the mind this is \"sense experience\", hence the emphasis the Buddha places on \"guarding the gates of the senses\". By not being caught up in the senses (\"appamāda\") we can be liberated from greed, hatred and delusion. This liberation is also expressed using the fire metaphor when it is termed \"nibbāna\" (Sanskrit: \"\") which means to \"go out\", or literally to \"blow out\". (Regarding the word \", the verb \"vā\" is intransitive so no agent is required.)\n\nProbably by the time the canon was written down (1st Century BCE), and certainly when Buddhaghosa was writing his commentaries (4th Century CE) the sense of the metaphor appears to have been lost, and \"upādāna\" comes to mean simply \"clinging\" as above. By the time of the Mahayana the term \"fire\" was dropped altogether and greed, hatred and delusion are known as the \"three poisons\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263536", "title": "Richard Petty Motorsports", "text": "Richard Petty Motorsports\n\nRPAC Racing, LLC, dba Richard Petty Motorsports (RPM) is an American professional stock car racing team that currently competes in the NASCAR Cup Series. The team is owned by seven-time NASCAR champion Richard Petty and New York businessman Andrew M. Murstein. The team was founded as Evernham Motorsports in 2000 by former crew chief Ray Evernham, entering full-time competition as a two-car operation in 2001 and fielding additional full-time entries in alliances with Ultra Motorsports and the Valvoline corporation. The organization was renamed Gillett Evernham Motorsports in 2007 after former Montreal Canadiens and Liverpool F.C. owner George Gillett bought a controlling interest from founder Evernham, and took on its current name after merging with Petty's team Petty Enterprises in 2009. Known for its factory backing from Dodge since its inception, the team switched to Ford in late 2009 and merged with Yates Racing for 2010. The team has the odd distinction of being the result of three successful teams (Evernham, Petty, & Yates) merging after falling on hard times.\n\nAfter funding issues due to the Gillett family's financial woes, in November 2010, an investment group including Andrew M. Murstein and his Medallion Financial Corporation, Douglas G. Bergeron, and Richard Petty himself, signed and closed sale on racing assets of Richard Petty Motorsports. Petty, Murstein, and Medallion Financial are the current owners of the team, while Evernham, Gillett, and Bergeron are no longer involved with the team.\n\nThe team currently fields the No. 43 Chevrolet Camaro full-time for Bubba Wallace in the NCS and has a partnership with Richard Childress Racing.\n\nEvernham Motorsports was founded in the year 2000 by former crew chief Ray Evernham, who won three championships atop the pit box for Jeff Gordon and Hendrick Motorsports. Evernham was named a team manager and owner for Daimler Chrysler's return to NASCAR's top level through their Dodge brand, leading the development of the Intrepid R/T race car that debuted in 2001. The team also operated with direct factory backing and sponsorship from Dodge. The team originally operated out of the former facility of Bill Elliott Racing.\n\nIn August 2007, then Montreal Canadiens and Liverpool F.C. owner George N. Gillett Jr. purchased a majority stake in the race team. The operation was renamed Gillett Evernham Motorsports, with Ray Evernham retaining substantial ownership and the role of CEO. Evernham stated the partnership would allow him to focus on \"racing operations and team performance\", with the Gillett family handling the business end of the operation. GEM proceeded to hire several financial executives to assist with corporate marketing, including former chairman of LendingTree Tom Reddin to replace Evernham as CEO.\n\nAt the beginning of the 2008 season, GEM signed a technical and marketing agreement with independent driver Robby Gordon, with plans to eventually absorb Robby Gordon Motorsports into the GEM stable. Under the terms of the alleged merger, Gordon would sell his one-car-operation to GEM for $23.5 million, then receive a four-year contract worth $12 million to drive for the team. The deal fell through, with GEM suing Gordon for violating the terms of the agreement.\n\nAfter the 2008 season, turmoil emerged when A. J. Allmendinger and Reed Sorenson were signed to drive for the team, while Elliott Sadler was released from his ride in the 19 car and planned to sue the team to keep his job. In the midst of a struggling economy, in January 2009 GEM merged with fellow Dodge team Petty Enterprises, which could no longer find sponsors for any of its cars, thus expanding the team to four cars. The organization was renamed Richard Petty Motorsports in the process. Ray Evernham was not involved in the merger negotiations, and both he and Richard Petty only maintained minority shares in the new team. Near the end of the season, the team announced its departure from the Dodge banner after being its flagship team since 2001. The team switched to Ford and would merge with Yates Racing, owned by Ford head engine builder Doug Yates, which had fielded several successful NASCAR drivers including Davey Allison, Ernie Irvan, Dale Jarrett, and Ricky Rudd.\n\nBy 2010, RPM's continued operation was put into question when lead driver Kasey Kahne announced his departure by the end of the season for Red Bull Racing Team. Kahne would be released by the team before the second Martinsville race with five events left in the season, after several mechanical failures. Kahne's decision was in the midst of financial problems for the Gillett family in several of their ventures, which included George Gillett defaulting on a $90 million loan he had used to purchase the team. With lackluster performance and rumors from week-to-week that the team would shut down, the chaos peaked in October when RPM's cars for the second Talladega race were briefly confiscated, and again in November when RPM's four team haulers remained parked at Texas Motor Speedway instead of heading to the next race at Phoenix, in both cases due to payment issues with engine and equipment supplier Roush Fenway Racing. The situation was resolved in November, when Richard Petty partnered with Medallion Financial (headed by lead investor Andrew M. Murstein) and DGB investments (headed by Douglas G. Bergeron) to purchase the team for \"less than $50 million.\" Petty once again was at the helm of a race team, and retained a one-third stake in the company by investing \"several million dollars\" of his own. Murstein had been seeking a sports investment since 2008 when he formed a special purpose acquisition company together with Hank Aaron, a Medallion board member, and others worth $215 million. The team contracted from four teams to two following 2010. Bergeron's share was bought out by Murstein at the end of 2014.\n\nIn 2015 the team began fabricating its own bodies, and in 2016 began building its own chassis, reducing its technical reliance on Roush Fenway Racing.\n\nFor the 2018 season, RPM switched their alliance from RFR to Richard Childress Racing which also came with a manufacturer switch to Chevrolet.\n\nOn November 16, 2001, Ultra Motorsports announced they had entered into a joint venture with Evernham Motorsports where the team would switch to Dodge Intrepids from Ford. Casey Atwood, who had been driving Evernham's No. 19 and needed a ride once Jeremy Mayfield became the team's second driver, would take over the 7 car for the 2002 season. The venture was known as Ultra-Evernham Motorsports, with Ultra owner Jim Smith handling day-to-day operations and Evernham handling technical and competition aspects of the team. Ray Evernham described it as \"doing two and a half teams.\" In January 2002, Sirius Satellite Radio was named as the sponsor for the 7 car. In his sophomore season, Atwood struggled severely, with a 29.4 average finish for the year and a best finish of 11th. The poor performance was attributed to a lack of competitive equipment (with the team using second-hand Evernham machines), and a lack of effort on driver Atwood's part. The partnership was dissolved after Smith decided to remove Atwood from the car with two races left in the season. Ultra Motorsports Truck Series driver Jason Leffler was named the interim driver. Jimmy Spencer would take over the car in 2003 for the once again independent Ultra Motorsports Dodge.\n\nThe No. 19 car was Evernham Motorsports' first foray into racing in the Cup series. It debuted in the 2000 Chevrolet Monte Carlo 400 at Richmond International Raceway as the No. 19 Motorola-sponsored Ford with 20-year-old Busch Series driver Casey Atwood as the driver. In that race, the car scored a 19th-place finish. The abbreviated season was capped off by Atwood's tenth-place finish at Homestead that year.\n\nFor Evernham's full-time debut in 2001, Atwood was named as the driver of the 19 car, teammate to Bill Elliott in the No. 9. The team was part of Dodge's return into NASCAR, with Dodge Dealers sponsoring the entire season. The year was off to a sluggish start when Atwood failed to qualify at the spring Atlanta race, but picked up steam towards the end of the year, winning the pole at Phoenix International Raceway, and almost winning the Homestead race before relinquishing the lead to teammate Elliott late in the race. Atwood barely missed wrestling the rookie of the year crown away from Kevin Harvick, despite Harvick finishing much higher in the points (ninth) and winning twice.\n\nAt the end of the year, though, Evernham made a change. He signed Jeremy Mayfield, who had recorded three wins for Penske Racing but who had been fired in September 2001 and had not run since, to join Elliott and drive the No. 19. As part of the move, Evernham agreed to the aforementioned deal with Ultra Motorsports which gave Atwood a car to drive. Mayfield struggled in his initial year with Evernham, posting just four top tens and finishing 26th in points. He won a pole at Talladega Superspeedway the next year however, and improved to 19th in points. 2004 was even better, winning at Richmond and barely making the cut for the inaugural Chase for the Nextel Cup. He claimed one more win in 2005 and qualified once again for the Chase.\n\nHowever, after the 2006 Allstate 400 at the Brickyard, where an early-race crash dropped the No. 19 team out of the top-35 in owner points (thus requiring the team to qualify for each race on time), owner Ray Evernham replaced Mayfield with Bill Elliott for the race at Watkins Glen, citing a lack of performance through the 2006 season. However, in affidavits filed in court Mayfield blamed his lack of performance and subsequent termination from the team on Evernham's heavy involvement with development driver Erin Crocker, and the \"close personal relationship\" that developed between the two.\n\nOn August 16, Elliott Sadler, after leaving Robert Yates Racing, was officially named the driver of the No. 19 car for the remainder of the 2006 season, as well as being named the driver for the 2007 season. In his first race, Sadler qualified second and finished tenth. This was the No. 19 car's best finish of the 2006 season until Sadler scored a sixth-place finish at New Hampshire several weeks later. Sadler finished 22nd in driver points, while the No. 19 team finished 34th in owner points, guaranteeing it a spot in the first five races of the 2007 season. Sadler would score only two top tens in 2007, finishing 25th in points.\nIn November 2007, Best Buy was announced as the new sponsor for fifteen races in the 2008 NASCAR Sprint Cup season. Later Stanley and McDonald's were announced as the two other primary sponsors on the No. 19. In May, Sadler reached a two-year contract extension with the team. However, on December 27, 2008, GEM announced that A. J. Allmendinger, who drove the team's No. 10 car at the end of the season, would be replacing Sadler in the No. 19 for the 2009 season. At the same time the team also announced several of its sponsors were considering leaving the team and that Ray Evernham had cleared his personal belongings out of the team's race shop, but it was not clear whether it was related to the hire. On January 3, 2009, Sadler's attorney announced that he would be seeking a breach of contract lawsuit against GEM for the dismissal. Looking to avoid the lawsuit GEM and Sadler's attorneys reached a settlement six days later that would return Sadler to the No. 19 for 2009 while keeping Allmendinger with the team. Sadler had five top-ten finishes in 2009, and finished twenty-sixth in points. Stanley was the team's sponsor for all 36 races in 2010. Due to a lack of results, Sadler announced his departure from the team in mid-season allowing this team to shut down. The team was considered to return in 2012 after Richard Childress Racing driver Clint Bowyer was offered a contract, but RPM withdrew their offer by September, with Bowyer accepting a 3-year contract with Michael Waltrip Racing to drive the No. 15 5-hour Energy Toyota Camry. Since then, the team has remained inactive. The number 19 would later be reassigned by NASCAR to Humphrey Smith Racing (which used the 19 in the now-Xfinity Series as TriStar Motorsports), and has since moved again to Joe Gibbs Racing.\n\nOn August 26, 2008, Gillett Evernham Motorsports announced the signing of Reed Sorenson to a multi-year contract to drive the No. 10 car. On Thursday January 9, it was announced that Richard Petty would sell his team to GEM, moving Sorenson to the No. 43 for the 2009 season in the process. The 43 ran multiple sponsorships from McDonald's, Valvoline, the United States Air Force, Super 8, Reynolds Wrap, Paralyzed Veterans of America, Charter Communications, Auto Value Bumper to Bumper, Liberty Medical, and Siemens, but only had one top-ten finish; a ninth at the rained-shortened Daytona 500. Sorenson was released the end of the season.\n\nThe team announced they had moved A. J. Allmendinger over to the No. 43 car for the 2010 season; he finished 19th in the points. In 2011, Allmendinger showed continued improvement, especially when he was paired with former Roush Fenway Racing crew chief Greg Erwin. The team would finish 15th in points, but it was not enough to retain Best Buy as a primary sponsor. As a result, Allmendinger was granted a release from RPM and he soon joined Penske Racing.\n\n\nTo replace Allmendinger, RPM signed Aric Almirola, who had replaced Kasey Kahne in the 9 car at the end of the 2010 season. Almirola earned a Pole start at Charlotte in May, and collected one top 5 and four top 10s en route to a 20th-place finish in points. Aric's best run of the year may have been at Kansas in October, where he qualified fifth and lead 69 laps after taking the top spot on lap 6. But on lap 121, Almirola blew a tire, sending his Farmland Ford into the wall. He spun on lap 172 racing for the lead and lost a lap on pit road. After getting his lap back and working his way up to 13th, Almirola hit the wall once again, setting the front of the car ablaze and ending the promising run.\n\nIn 2013 Almirola returned to the No. 43; at Martinsville Speedway in October, the team ran the No. 41 to honor Maurice Petty's induction into the NASCAR Hall of Fame. During the 2013 season from Martinsville to Darlington, Almirola had the most consecutive Top 10s in the 43 car since Bobby Hamilton in 1996. After being fastest in practice in Talladega, his crew chief Todd Parrott was suspended for violating NASCAR's substance abuse policy. Almirola finished a career high 18th in points. For 2014, the team hired Trent Owens, Richard Petty's nephew as crew chief.\n\nIn January 2014, RPM announced a three-year contract extension with Almirola after working on one year deals the previous two seasons. This coincided with sponsor Smithfield Foods stepping up to fund 29 races in each the next three seasons with brands Smithfield, Farmland, Eckrich, and Gwaltney. Almirola had a rather slow start to 2014, being involved in a 12 car wreck in the 2014 Daytona 500. At Bristol, Almirola posted his best career finish to date of 3rd, only behind winner Carl Edwards and Ricky Stenhouse Jr.\n\nThe next week at Auto Club Speedway during the 2014 Auto Club 400, Almirola got involved in an accident with part-time Cup driver Brian Scott. Almirola made a pass on Scott for 4th place. Scott controversially moved into the back of Almirola to wreck himself and Almirola. In a post-race interview, an angry Almirola retorted \"The 33 was obviously a dart without feathers and coming across the race track. He ran right into me. Man, he came from all the way at the bottom of the race track and ran into me. He's not even racing this series for points. He's out there having fun because his daddy gets to pay for it and he wrecked us. That's frustrating.\"\n\nAt the 2014 Coke Zero 400, Almirola would earn his first career win in the Sprint Cup Series after avoiding two major wrecks, and leading the field when the race was called off after 112 laps due to rain. His win also marked the first victory by the Richard Petty Motorsports No. 43, the first victory for the No. 43 overall in Cup since Petty Enterprises' win at Martinsville in 1999, and 30 years to the day Richard Petty won his 200th race in a Curb Racing No. 43. On his big victory Almirola said \"The good Lord was watching out for us today and we were meant to win. It's real special for me to win here. This is not only the 30th anniversary of this team's last win at Daytona, it is my hometown and I remember growing up watching Daytona 500s and Firecracker 400s here. To win is real special.\" Almirola's win guaranteed him a spot in the newly reformatted Chase for the Sprint Cup. He was eliminated after the Round of 16 due to a crash at Dover.\nLongtime teammate Marcos Ambrose left the team in 2015, and he was replaced by Sam Hornish Jr. as the driver of Petty's other entry. Almirola scored a top-five finish at Dover early in the season but then barely missed out on the Chase in points, finishing sixteen points and one position behind the last man in, Clint Bowyer. Almirola finished fourth in the cut race, doing everything he could to make it in. Despite missing the playoffs, Almirola scored another top-five at Dover, a track which the team had traditionally been strong at. He wound up finishing seventeenth in points, top of the non-Chase field.\n\nFor the 2016 season Hornish was replaced by Brian Scott, whom Almirola had previously tangled with in his career. Almirola said that he felt \"more excited than ever\" and was confident that his extended pairing with crew chief Owens would yield good results. However, after a strong 12th place showing in the 2016 Daytona 500, the team went into a slump, highlighted by last-place finishes at Martinsville, Kansas and in the season's final race at Homestead-Miami. Almirola finished the 2016 season with an average finish of just over 23rd and a 26th-place points finish. After the 2016 season, RPM announced that they would lease the charter of the 44 team and focus solely on Almirola's effort.\n\nThe one-car approach paid immediate dividends as Almirola recorded a top ten finish in the 2017 Daytona 500. However, in the season's eleventh race, the 2017 Go Bowling 400, Almirola was caught in a wreck caused by Joey Logano. After Logano lost control of his car and collided with Danica Patrick's car, Almirola's car plowed into Logano's and the back end of the car left the ground. Almirola was then immediately airlifted to a hospital, where he would later be diagnosed with a shattered T5 vertebrae, for which he would miss eight to twelve races. Regan Smith was named as the replacement for the NASCAR All-Star Race, racing until the AAA Drive for Autism at Dover. Roush Fenway Racing's Xfinity Series driver Bubba Wallace made his Cup Series debut in the No. 43, driving the car until Almirola was fit to return to racing. Ford sports car racer Billy Johnson drove the No. 43 at Sonoma. Almirola returned to the car at New Hampshire Motor Speedway in July. In September 2017, it was announced that Almirola and Smithfield Foods were leaving Richard Petty Motorsports for Stewart-Haas Racing after negotiations to extend the sponsorship deal fell through, although after Petty threatened legal action, Smithfield reached a settlement in which their subsidiary brands such as Food Lion Feeds and Farmer John would sponsor the No. 43 for a portion of the 2018 season.\n\nFor the 2018 season, Wallace replaced Almirola in the No. 43 car who ran for Rookie of the Year honors. He got an impressive second-place finish at the 2018 Daytona 500. On May 1, 2018, World Wide Technology signed on to sponsor the No. 43 car for six races. Wallace finished the season 28th in points and finished 2nd in the Rookie of the Year honors.\n\nWallace started the 2019 season with a 38th-place finish at the 2019 Daytona 500 when Kurt Busch spun in front of him and Tyler Reddick hit him from behind, causing Wallace to collide with Busch. Wallace continued to finish consistently below the top-15, but he managed to make the starting grid of the 2019 Monster Energy NASCAR All-Star Race by winning stage 2 of the Monster Energy Open. At the 2019 Brickyard 400 Wallace managed to run top 10 the majority of the day and compete for the win with around 10 to go and would go onto finish third. On November 9, Wallace was fined $50,000 and docked 50 points for intentionally manipulating competition at Texas when he spun his car on the track after experiencing a tire failure.\n\nThe No. 44 debuted as the No. 9 in the 2001 Daytona 500 with Dodge's return to NASCAR. After half a decade as a driver and owner, 1988 Winston Cup Series champion Bill Elliott joined Evernham as a driver and re-assumed the No. 9 that he drove with Melling Racing. Elliott won the pole for the Daytona 500 and finished fifth. He marked the season with his first win in seven years at Homestead-Miami Speedway and finished 15th in points. Elliott would score two wins and finish 13th in points in 2002. He scored his final career win at North Carolina in fall 2003. After a ninth-place finish in the points that season, Elliott announced that due to the pressures of a full Nextel Cup schedule, he would step down from his full-time ride and would race the team's research and development car.\n\nElliott was replaced by rookie driver Kasey Kahne, a successful open-wheel racer just starting to gain respect in the Busch Series, who left a development contract with Ford to sign with Evernham's Dodge team for the 2004 season. Tommy Baldwin, Jr. would serve as crew chief for the No. 9 team. Kahne was arguably the least accomplished driver in a strong rookie class that included Busch Series winners Brian Vickers (the 2003 Champion), Scott Riggs, Scott Wimmer, and Johnny Sauter as well as Craftsman Truck Series winner Brendan Gaughan. Kahne would have the strongest performance out of all the young drivers, earning three second-place finishes through the first eleven races and five on the season, including two close finishes with Matt Kenseth and Elliott Sadler. Kahne earned four poles and 14 Top 10 finishes to score a 13th-place finish in points, winning the Rookie of the Year honors by over 100 points. In 2005, he won the spring Richmond race, but finished a disappointing 23rd in the final point standings.\nNear the end of the 2005 season, Evernham initiated a crew swap between his teams, citing performance issues with both cars. As a result, Kahne received most of what was Mayfield's team from 2005. In 2006, Kahne won six races, including the prestigious Coca-Cola 600 at Lowe's Motor Speedway in May. He also made his first Chase for the Nextel Cup, finishing eighth in the standings at the end of the season. His six wins were a series high in 2006 and he also tied for the most pole awards with Kurt Busch at six. On September 18, 2007, it was announced that Budweiser would sponsor the No. 9 car beginning in 2008, after Dodge Dealers/Mopar/UAW had sponsored the team since 2001. In his first year with the Budweiser sponsorship, Kahne had two wins and finished 14th in points. The next year, Kahne scored his first road course victory at the Toyota/Save Mart 350 and won again at Atlanta on Labor Day, earning him a berth in the Chase. However, early misfortune at Loudon put the No. 9 team out of contention for the championship, finishing 10th in points. 2010 would start the No. 9 team off on a high note by winning the second Gatorade Duel in a photo finish. However, the team was plagued by inconsistency and was knocked out of Chase contention before Richmond. With a lack of results, Kahne departed the team before Martinsville and drove Red Bull Racing's No. 83 Toyota. Kahne was replaced by Aric Almirola for the remaining races, who had a best finish of fourth at Homestead.\n\nMarcos Ambrose took over driving duties at the beginning of the 2011 season with Stanley Black & Decker moving over from the 19 team. Ambrose had a break out year in the No. 9 Ford and drove to his first NASCAR Sprint Cup Series victory at Watkins Glen International in August. He finished the season with a then-career-high 12 Top 10s, and a 19th-place points finish. Ambrose returned in 2012, and once again won at Watkins Glen, but only had eight Top 10s. However, he did pick up one spot in points to 18th. He failed to win or finish in the Top 5 in 2013, but finished in the Top 10 on six occasions. He dropped to 22nd in points.\n\nIn September 2014, Marcos Ambrose announced he would not return to RPM for 2015, and would depart from NASCAR to return to Australia and the V8 Supercar Series for DJR Team Penske. Later that month, it was announced that primary sponsor Stanley Black & Decker would depart the team for Joe Gibbs Racing. On October 8, 2014, it was announced that Sam Hornish, Jr. would drive the No. 9 car starting in 2015. Twisted Tea returned for four races including the Daytona 500. In late-February, it was announced that Medallion Bank, a subsidiary of team owner Andrew Murstein's Medallion Financial Corporation, would appear as a primary sponsor for select races. Medallion partnered with NASCAR Truck Series sponsor Camping World for the third and fourth races of the season (Las Vegas and Phoenix), and other companies including Mercury Marine and Lyon Financial. Hornish struggled during the year, with only three top tens including a best finish of eighth at Talladega in May to finish 26th in points. At the second to last race of the season at Phoenix, Richard Petty announced Hornish would not return to the team following season's end.\n\nHornish was replaced by longtime Xfinity Series driver Brian Scott for 2016, with Albertsons and Shore Lodge joining Twisted Tea as primary sponsors. The car was renumbered from 9 to 44, which had been used by Petty Enterprises, and by RPM in 2009.\n\nThe 98 car started as the 91 car in 2002. Three drivers drove the No. 91: Dick Trickle at Talladega Superspeedway (failing to qualify); Hank Parker, Jr. at Rockingham Speedway with sponsorship from USG Corporation; and Casey Atwood at Homestead-Miami Speedway with a sponsorship from Mountain Dew (after being released from the No. 7 car). The car returned in 2003 at Pocono Raceway and Indianapolis Motor Speedway, with Atwood driving the 91 Mountain Dew Live Wire-sponsored Dodge at Pocono and an unsponsored entry at Indy. In 2004, Bill Elliott relinquished his full-time duties to drive the No. 91 in a part-time deal at Las Vegas, Texas, and Indianapolis. Elliott also ran three races in a No. 98 Dodge under his own Bill Elliott Racing banner, utilizing Evernham equipment and crew members and the owners points of Mach 1 Racing, in part to avoid conflict with sponsor Coca-Cola (Evernham's No. 9 and No. 19 cars were both sponsored by Mountain Dew). He returned to drive the 91 in a part-time deal in 2005 in nine races held at Fontana, Atlanta, Texas, Charlotte, Michigan, Indianapolis, Michigan, Fontana, and Texas. Elliott had sponsorships from UAW, Coca-Cola, McDonald's, Stanley Tools, Auto Value / Bumper to Bumper, and Visteon.\n\n\nIn 2006, the team became full-time and was renumbered as the No. 10 car, as Scott Riggs and his Valvoline sponsorship moved over from struggling MB2 Motorsports. In addition to sponsoring 22 races in 2006, Valvoline also maintained an ownership stake in the team through Senior Vice President James Rocco (like with MBV), called Valvoline-Evernham Motorsports (also written as Valvoline-Evernham Racing). The team nearly won on several occasions including Charlotte, Talladega, and Texas — where he crashed out in second place with two laps to go. He finished 18th in final standings despite missing the Daytona 500. Going into 2007 with high hopes, Evernham's performance suffered; Riggs failed to qualify for six races and had five DNF's with only one Top 10 finish all season. He was released with two races remaining in favor of former CART driver Patrick Carpentier, who had also replaced him at Watkins Glen.\n\n\nCarpentier, who was 36 years old at the time, became the full-time driver for 2008, part of a unique rookie class stacked with open wheel veterans all trying to emulate the success found by Juan Pablo Montoya the previous year. This included IndyCar Series Champions Dario Franchitti and Sam Hornish, Jr., and CART and Formula One champion Jacques Villeneuve, as well as DEI development drivers Regan Smith and Aric Almirola. With Valvoline taking a backseat role in 2008 and Stanley Tools moving to the No. 19 car, GEM signed LifeLock for eight races, an identity security company making a large entrance investment into NASCAR. Charter Communications and Auto Value/Bumper to Bumper also sponsored several races. Carpentier won the pole at Loudon but otherwise struggled, as did his fellow open-wheel counterparts. He had no Top 10s, missed five races — including the Daytona 500 — and was out of the Top 35 in points when he was released after Kansas. Second-year driver A. J. Allmendinger replaced Carpentier, after being released from Red Bull Racing in favor of Scott Speed. In his five races for GEM, Allmendinger was impressive, posting three Top 15s and often outrunning his teammates. Allmendinger was initially rewarded with a full-time ride in the No. 19 car, replacing Elliott Sadler. This was derailed when Sadler intended to sue the team and Allmendinger to keep his job, when Reed Sorenson was signed as a third driver, and when several sponsors threatened to leave the team in response to the recent moves.\n\nThe merger between GEM and Petty Enterprises in January 2009 suddenly expanded the team to four rides; the team was renamed to Richard Petty Motorsports and Sadler remained in the 19, while Sorenson moved over to the newly absorbed No. 43 car. Later that month, Allmendinger was signed to drive the newly renumbered No. 44 (used by Kyle Petty, Buckshot Jones, and others at Petty Enterprises in the past) in 2009 with an option for a second season. The only starts guaranteed for the team were the Budweiser Shootout and the first eight-point races of 2009, with the possibility of more races if the team could secure sponsorship. The team unveiled a retro Valvoline/Petty Blue paint scheme for the Daytona 500, and opened the year with a third-place finish in the \"Great American Race\". Later in the season, Allmendinger finished ninth at Martinsville. They secured sponsorship through the Chevy Rock and Roll 400 at Richmond in the fall. RPM announced in April that Allmendinger was being signed to a two-year deal, which would keep him in the No. 44 through the end of the 2010 season and sponsorships from Hunt Brothers Pizza, Super 8, Harrah's Entertainment, and Ford allowed him to complete the season. The 44 would also run Fords in several late season races in preparation for a manufacturer switch the next year. Considering the circumstances the year began on, Allmendinger had a solid season, with one Top 5, six Top 10s, and a 24th-place points finish. He would move over to the 43 the next year.\n\nFor 2010, due to the buyout of Yates Racing by RPM, Paul Menard replaced Reed Sorenson (driver of the 43 in 2009) and drove the No. 98 Menards Ford Fusion. Menard posted similar stats to Allmendinger the prior year (1 top 5, 6 top 10s, 23rd in points), but left the team along with crew chief Slugger Labbe for 2011, taking the Menards sponsorship with him to Richard Childress Racing, forcing the No. 98 to shut down.\n\nThe No. 9 Ultimate Chargers Busch team started as the No. 6 Pepsi-sponsored Dodge Intrepid for Tommy Baldwin Racing. The team made its debut in 2002 at the fall Michigan Busch Series race, where Wally Dallenbach drove the team to a 14th-place finish. Dallenbach finished in the top ten in his other two starts in the car that year, splitting the car with Damon Lusk. Lusk took over on a limited basis for 2003 but did not finish in the top 10.\n\nIn 2004, primary sponsor Unilever backed the Hungry Drivers program to allow for young drivers to compete for a full-time seat in NASCAR. Four drivers were chosen to compete for the seat and the chosen drivers were Scott Lynch, Mark McFarland, Tracy Hines, and Paul Wolfe. Each driver was given three races to prove their talent. After scoring 2 top-20 finishes, including a 12th-place effort at New Hampshire, Wolfe was awarded the No. 6 Busch seat for the 2005 season.\n\nIn October 2004, Evernham Motorsports acquired Tommy Baldwin Racing, and with it, the Hungry Drivers program. Paul Wolfe started out the 2005 season, but was let go after the first four races due to poor performance. Kasey Kahne and Jeremy Mayfield took the brunt of the driving duties of the No. 6 team with Kahne scoring the team's first win at Kansas in October. Other drivers would also share in the driving duties of the car, including Mike Wallace, Tracy Hines, Bill Elliott, Casey Atwood, and also Paul Wolfe for three races. Erin Crocker would also make her Busch Series racing debut with the team at Richmond.\n\nFor the 2006 season, a number of changes were made to the team. First, a number switch with Roush Racing gave Evernham the No. 9 to use for his team while the No. 6 went with Mark Martin's Busch team. Also, Unilever's sponsorship of the team was expanded. Now called the Ultimate Chargers team, it would feature Kasey Kahne, Jeremy Mayfield, and Scott Riggs as the main drivers of the car throughout the year. Crocker, who competed under the No. 98 with sponsorship from General Mills, and Boris Said also shared driving duties in the car. Kahne, who drove the majority of races for the team, won twice at Las Vegas in the spring and Fontana in the fall. In 2007, Kahne won the spring race at Charlotte and the fall race at Bristol with sponsorship again from Unilever. Kahne, Elliott Sadler, Scott Riggs, Boris Said, and Chase Miller shared the brunt of the driving duties in the car. Deac McCaskill drove for the team in a single race at O'Reilly Raceway Park at Indianapolis.\n\nIn 2008, Unilever, along with additional backing from AutoValue/Bumper-to-Bumper and Ingersoll Rand, continued sponsorship of the team with Kahne, Sadler, Patrick Carpentier, and Chase Miller sharing driving duties in the car through the year. Results were mixed for the Nationwide GEM team. For the first time since the program's inception, the team failed to record a win. The car's best results were two second-place finishes. The first was recorded by Kasey Kahne in the spring race at Bristol while Patrick Carpentier finished 2nd in the race at Montreal.\n\nLater in the year, it was announced that primary sponsor Unilever would move to the No. 5 of JR Motorsports. As a result of the loss of the sponsor, the organization announced that the car would move to a part-time schedule for the 2009 season. With the cutback, the team also let go about 65 employees, some of whom were also from the engine shop.\n\nIn 2009, the No. 9 team partnered with Braun Racing and their No. 10 Toyota Camry for several races with Kasey Kahne and Elliott Sadler. Fritos with the sponsor at Atlanta with Kahne as driver. Bumper to Bumper sponsored Sadler at New Hampshire. McDonald's was the sponsor at Daytona is July and at Bristol in August.\n\nThe team was brought back in 2011, RPM provided a car for Marcos Ambrose in the NASCAR Nationwide Series race in Montreal. The No. 9 Ford Mustang was prepared by Roush Fenway Racing. Owen Kelly practiced and qualified the car while Ambrose was in Michigan for the Sprint Cup race. The car qualified 9th. Even with the team starting in the back with the driver change, the team won the race that stopped a string of bad luck for Ambrose at the track. In 2013, the No. 9 Ford Mustang was driven by Marcos Ambrose in the Nationwide Children's Hospital 200 at Mid-Ohio to a seventh-place finish. The 9 was also run at Homestead for the season finale with Corey Lajoie behind the wheel. He was involved in a crash and finished 33rd.\n\nIn 2014, Ambrose returned to the series in the No. 09 Ford Mustang at Watkins Glen International, winning the race.\n\nIn the 2003 season, the team debuted with Jeremy Mayfield driving the No. 79 Dodge Intrepid, with Mountain Dew sponsoring, at Rockingham. He finished 4th in the only race for the team that year. The team returned for the 2005 season, operating as a 2nd Busch team. Sponsorship for this car came mainly from Trus Joist and Auto Value. Kahne and Mayfield shared the driving duties for the three races the team ran with a best finish of 4th at Richmond in May. Kahne also drove the car to a 12th-place finish at New Hampshire and Mayfield had a best finish of 29th at Charlotte. While the team didn't run in 2006, a couple of the chassis from the No. 79 were run by Erin Crocker in her first couple of races.\n\nIn the last race of the 2007 season at Homestead-Miami Speedway, Patrick Carpentier made his second Busch Series start. The car was the No. 19 sponsored by Stanley.\n\nChase Miller drove the car as a second GEM car in select Nationwide Series races in 2008, with sponsorship from Cellco Partnerships (a joint venture of Verizon and Vodafone) on the car. The team was retired once the Braun-Petty deal was announced.\n\nIn 2012, the No. 9 was renumbered to the No. 43 running Michael Annett, who brings his sponsorship from Pilot Flying J, though STP served as sponsor for the STP 300 at Chicagoland.\n\n\nWith Annett moving up to the Cup Series for Tommy Baldwin Racing, RPM hired former Turn One Racing Truck driver Dakoda Armstrong to take over the No. 43, bringing sponsorship from WinField. Armstrong drove for two seasons, then left after 2015 for JGL Racing.\n\nIn 2016, former BK Racing driver Jeb Burton joined the team, driving the No. 43. In June, the team was suspended after sponsor J. Streicher & Co. defaulted on their agreement with RPM.\n\nIn 2002, Casey Atwood ran a Dodge-sponsored No. 19 car at Pocono Raceway in the ARCA Racing Series, winning the race from the pole.\n\nIn 2005, Erin Crocker made her ARCA Racing Series debut in a No. 98 Dodge at Nashville Superspeedway. Crocker won the pole, and finished 12th after leading 28 laps. Crocker would run six more races with another pole at Kentucky and five top five finishes. Crocker ran seven more ARCA races in 2006, and moved up to NASCAR's Craftsman Truck Series full-time with sponsorship from General Mills brands Cheerios and Betty Crocker. Crocker would score another Kentucky pole and three top tens in ARCA, but the success would not translate in the Truck Series, with a best finish of 16th twice leading to a 25th finish in the championship standings. General Mills would leave at the end of the season, leading the Truck Series team to close. Crocker returned to ARCA for 12 races in 2007, with Mac Tools sponsoring five races. Crocker won the pole at Daytona and her third consecutive Kentucky pole, scoring six top fives and eight total top ten finishes.\n\nIn 2016, Richard Petty Motorsports formed an alliance with Empire Racing, owned by John Corr. Empire Racing would field the No. 43 Petty's Garage entry in the Camping World Truck Series part-time in the series, with a number of young drivers sharing the truck.Austin Hill drove at Daytona. Korbin Forrister drove at Eldora, but failed to qualify.\n\nThe alliance with Empire Racing has moved to ARCA from the 2017 season having been centered around Richard Petty's grandson, Thad Moffitt. Moffitt has run part-time in the No. 46. And Sean Corr drive No. 43 in a few races.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263550", "title": "John Smith Memorial Mace", "text": "John Smith Memorial Mace\n\nThe John Smith Memorial Mace (known as the Observer Mace from 1954 to 1995) is an annual debating tournament (British Parliamentary format) contested by universities in England, Ireland, Scotland and Wales.\n\nThe equivalent competition for secondary schools is the ESU Schools Mace.\n\nThe competition was founded in 1954 by the journalist Kenneth Harris of \"The Observer\" newspaper, and was sponsored by the newspaper until 1995. It was then renamed the John Smith Memorial Mace in honour of the British Labour Party leader John Smith, who won the tournament as a member of the Glasgow University team in 1962, and died in 1994.\n\nThe competition has been held annually since 1954, except for 1977, when no tournament was organised. In the early years, neither Oxbridge debating society (the Oxford Union and Cambridge Union) participated. Glasgow University Union has been the most successful institution in the competition's history, winning the tournament 16 times, most recently in 2018.\n\nIn addition to John Smith, other notable former winners include Charles Kennedy, Donald Dewar, John Nicolson, Lord Hunt of Wirral and Professor Anthony Clare.\n\nSince 1993, the competition has been run by the English-Speaking Union, with assistance from regional convenors. Four regional tournaments are held each year for universities in England, Ireland, Scotland and Wales. The Irish tournament is open to teams from both the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland. The winners of these four regional competitions then go on to face each other in the International Final, which is held each spring to determine the overall champions.\n\nAll debates in the competition are held using the British Parliamentary debate format. Speeches in the International Final and regional finals are seven minutes long, which is similar to most other British Parliamentary format tournaments, where speeches are usually seven or five minutes long. Until 2001, speeches in the tournament's finals were ten minutes long.\n\nThe Mace is considered by many debaters to be effectively an overall championship for the United Kingdom and Ireland, with the regional qualifying tournament serving effectively as national championships for England, Scotland and Wales. The Irish Times National Debating Championship served as the Irish qualifier for the Mace in the 1960s, but is now run separately.\n\nGlasgow University Union 16\nCambridge Union 6\nUniversity of Edinburgh 5\nLincoln's Inn 4\nUniversity College Dublin Literary & Historical Society 4\nInner Temple 3\nTrinity College Dublin Philosophical Society 2\nTrinity College Dublin Historical Society 2\nOxford Union 2\nKing's Inns 2\nUniversity College Dublin Law Society 2\nMiddle Temple 2\nUniversity College Cardiff 2\nUniversity College Cork Philosophical Society 1\nUniversity College Cork Law Society 1\nGray's Inn 1\nUniversity of Bristol 1\nEaling College 1\nBirkbeck College 1\nRuskin College 1\n\nPrior to the 2001-2 academic year, England and Wales held a combined qualifying tournament for the International Final of the Mace. At the time, the winners of the Irish, Scottish and English/Welsh tournaments qualified for the International Final automatically, while runners-up from the events qualified for a repechage debate which determined the fourth team in the International Final. After the 2000-1 academic year, England and Wales began holding separate qualifying tournaments and the repechage was abolished.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263558", "title": "The Second Life of Doctor Mirage", "text": "The Second Life of Doctor Mirage\n\nThe Second Life of Doctor Mirage is an 18-issue American comic book series co-created by writer/artist Bob Layton and illustrator Bernard Chang, and published by Valiant Comics. More than two million comics in the series have been sold since it was published from 1993–1995. \"The Second Life of Dr. Mirage\" has been translated into German, Italian, Spanish, Norwegian, Filipino, Chinese, and other languages.\n\nIn a 1994 interview, Bob Layton said that the book was originally created after talking with a close friend who was discouraged that so few comic books catered to the female audience\n\nHwen and Carmen Mirage are parapsychologists who investigate paranormal activity and supernatural mysteries. They are hired to investigate two necromantically charged corpses, which come to life and attack them. During the fight, the corpses reveal the name of their master, Master Darque, a necromantic sorcerer. Hwen begins a journey to find Darque.\n\nHwen pursues Master Darque to Ladakh, Tibet. Master Darque attempts to absorb Hwen's life force, but is thwarted by Carmen's love for Hwen just as Darque's power reaches its peak. Carmen and Hwen attempt an escape, but are attacked by undead priests, at which point Hwen discovers his own ability to control energy. Hwen’s new ability and Carmen’s martial arts expertise prove to be beyond Darque’s control, and they strike an uneasy truce.\n\nHwen soon realizes he has been transformed into a “positively charged” necromantic being. This transformation means Hwen cannot come into physical contact with other people. This puts a strain on Hwen and Carmen’s marriage as they attempt to return to normal life. Subsequently Hwen receives training to harness his powers and can become solid for short periods of time. Eventually, Hwen acquires the ability to change the appearance of his clothing.\n\nHwen and Carmen believe they have found a friend in Enrico, who agrees to manage their home when they travel for investigations. Enrico appears to be easygoing and helpful, but is later found to be keeping dark secrets.\n\nA house becomes charged with necromantic energy and gives shape to the angry spirit within. Hwen and Carmen investigate the home, which is destroyed due to a gas leak. During the destruction, necromantic energy is released and is absorbed by Hwen.\n\nMore problems come when it becomes known that Carmen's parents despise Hwen, as does Carmen's ex-husband, who is even more dangerous. These problems come to the forefront as a body-manipulating foe seeks to suck the 'dark energy' out of Carmen.\n\nIn the series, Darque Power is the name given to the necromantic energy released when humans die. Named for Master Darque, the world's most infamous necromancer, the energy can be used in several types of magic spells and incantations. Silver is the only known conductor for Darque Power energy. Electromagnetic pulses can disrupt the flow of Darque Power energy forces.\n\n\"Second Life of Doctor Mirage\" #1–#18 (1993–1995)\n\n"}
{"id": "2263561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263561", "title": "Giuseppe Colosi", "text": "Giuseppe Colosi\n\nGiuseppe Colosi (March 29, 1892 – October 20, 1975) was an Italian zoologist. He specialized in the study of crustaceans and mysids in particular. \n\nColosi was born in Petralia Sottana. From 1920 to 1924, he taught in Turin, and he was the head of the zoological institute of the University of Florence from 1940 to 1962. He died in Florence, aged 83.\n\nColosi is commemorated in the scientific name of a species of lizard, \"Chalcides colosii\".\n\nEthology Ecology & Evolution\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263563", "title": "Frederick Lambton, 4th Earl of Durham", "text": "Frederick Lambton, 4th Earl of Durham\n\nFrederick William Lambton, 4th Earl of Durham (19 June 1855 – 31 January 1929) was a British peer, a Liberal (and later Liberal Unionist) politician, and the son of George Lambton, 2nd Earl of Durham. He inherited the Earldom from his twin brother, John Lambton, 3rd Earl of Durham, when the latter died with no legitimate children.\n\nHe married Beatrix Bulteel (1859 – 27 April 1937), his second cousin once removed, on 26 May 1879). They had six children:\n\n\nHe was elected at the 1880 general election as a Liberal Member of Parliament (MP) for South Durham, 384 and held that seat until the constituency was abolished for the 1885 general election. He did not stand in 1885, but having joined the Liberal unionists in 1885 he unsuccessfully contested Berwick-Upon-Tweed in 1886, Sunderland in 1886, and a by-election in South East Durham in February 1898.\n\nHe was returned to the House of Commons after a fifteen-years absence at the 1900 general election, when he defeated Joseph Richardson, the Liberal winner of the 1898 by-election. Lambton was re-elected unopposed in 1906, but lost the seat by a wide margin to a Liberal candidate in January 1910.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263578", "title": "N-Coded Music", "text": "N-Coded Music\n\nN-Coded Music was a jazz record label in New York City founded by Dave Grusin, Larry Rosen, and Phil Ramone in 1997.\n\nTheir original business model was to break out new artists and groups from various genres (mainly smooth jazz) by releasing their music through its co-owned online music site, Music Boulevard, in the form of CDs and downloads using the Liquid Audio format. CDs were also distributed by Sony Music's independent RED Distribution for the traditional retail market. After Music Boulevard and its main competitor CDNOW merged, N2K Encoded was sold to Warlock Records and renamed N-Coded Music.\n\nN-Coded's roster included Ann Hampton Callaway, Jane Monheit, Candy Dulfer, Andy Bey, and Jonathan Butler.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263598", "title": "Matato'a", "text": "Matato'a\n\nMatato’a is a musical and dance group from Easter Island (Rapa Nui). It is one of the most famous bands from the island. Matato'a was founded in 1996 by Kevamatato’a Atan. It was in 1998 that they adopted the name of Matato'a, which means 'warrior' or 'guardian'. They played all over Chile in the same year. Mito Manutomatoma, a founding member, left the group in 1999 to play mainstream Chilean music.\n\nThe group, consisting largely of family members, uses traditional instruments, such as stones, horse jawbone, and bombo along with electric guitars and other modern elements to create a unique fusion sound.\n\nMatato'a's principal motivation is to promote the ancestral traditions, the dances, the costumes, & body paintings of the Rapa Nui People. Performances are high-energy, with intensive indigenous cultural representation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263602", "title": "Kickstand", "text": "Kickstand\n\nA kickstand is a device on a bicycle or motorcycle that allows the bike to be kept upright without leaning against another object or the aid of a person. A kickstand is usually a piece of metal that flips down from the frame and makes contact with the ground. It is generally located in the middle of the bike or towards the rear. Some touring bicycles have two: one at the rear, and a second in the front.\n\nThe earliest known kickstand was designed by Albert Berruyer in 1869, and since then kickstands have been independently reinvented many times. It was mounted below the handlebars, so was much longer than more recent designs. A shorter model was patented by Eldon Henderson in 1926. In the 1930s, a \"smaller, more convenient\" kickstand was developed by Joseph Paul Treen.\n\nIn 1891, Pardon W, Tillinghast patented a design for a stand which was mounted on the pedal, but folded up flat under the pedal when not in use.\n\nKickstands on bicycles fell out of fashion in the 1970s, as the bicycles became lighter, and many riders were concerned about extra weight.\n\nA \"side stand\" style kickstand is a single leg that simply flips out to one side, usually the left side, and the bike then leans against it. Side stands can be mounted to the chain stays right behind the bottom bracket or to a chain and seat stay near the rear hub. Side stands mounted right behind the bottom bracket can be bolted on, either clamping the chain stays, or to the bracket between them, or welded into place as an integral part of the frame.\n\nA \"center stand\" kickstand is a pair of legs or a bracket that flips straight down and lifts the rear wheel off the ground when in use. Center stands can be mounted to the chain stays right behind the bottom bracket or to the rear dropouts. Many motorcycles feature center stands in addition to side stands. The center stand is advantageous because it takes most of the motorcycle's weight off its tires for long-term parking, and it allows the user to perform maintenance such as chain adjustments without the need for an external stand. Center stands are found on most \"standard\" and \"touring\" motorcycles, but are omitted on most high-performance sportbikes to save weight and increase ground clearance.\n\nWhile not strictly a \"kickstand\", the \"Flickstand\" is a small bracket that flips down from the down tube and engages the front tire to prevent the front end from steering and tire from rotating, and thus enabling the bike to be safely leaned against an object without danger of the front end turning and the bike subsequently falling to the ground. These were made by Rhode Gear Company in the 1970s and 1980s. While the Flickstand is no longer made, a Velcro strap can be employed for similar success by strapping a brake lever to lock the brake or strap the front wheel to the down tube.\n\nKickstands can be made of steel or cast aluminium. There may be a rubber cap on the end.\n\nKickstands can lock in place, either up or down, by several means:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263604", "title": "Aiphanes", "text": "Aiphanes\n\nAiphanes is a genus of spiny palms which is native to tropical regions of South and Central America and the Caribbean. There are about 26 species in the genus (see below), ranging in size from understorey shrubs with subterranean stems to subcanopy trees as tall as . Most have pinnately compound leaves (leaves which are divided into leaflets arranged feather-like, in pairs along a central axis); one species has entire leaves. Stems, leaves and sometimes even the fruit are covered with spines. Plants flower repeatedly over the course of their lifespan and have separate male and female flowers, although these are borne together on the same inflorescence. Although records of pollinators are limited, most species appear to be pollinated by insects. The fruit are eaten by several birds and mammals, including at least two species of amazon parrots.\n\nCarl Ludwig Willdenow coined the name \"Aiphanes\" in 1801. Before that, species belonging to the genus had been placed in \"Bactris\" or \"Caryota\". The name \"Martinezia\" had also been applied to the genus, and between 1847 and 1932 it was generally used in place of \"Aiphanes\". Max Burret resurrected the name \"Aiphanes\" in 1932, and laid the basis for the modern concept of the genus. \"Aiphanes\" is most closely related to several other genera of spiny palms—\"Acrocomia\", \"Astrocaryum\", \"Bactris\" and \"Desmoncus\". Two species are widely planted as ornamentals and the fruit, seeds or palm heart of several species have been eaten by indigenous peoples of the Americas for millennia.\n\n\"Aiphanes\" is a genus of spiny palms ranging from tall subcanopy trees to small shrubs with subterranean stems growing in the forest understorey. Its name combines the Ancient Greek \"ai\", meaning \"always\", with \"phaneros\", meaning \"evident\", \"visible\" or \"conspicuous\". In their 1996 monograph on the genus, botanists Finn Borchsenius and Rodrigo Bernal pointed out that \"ironically, species of \"Aiphanes\" are generally very hard to spot and find in dense vegetation and, accordingly, are among the most poorly collected neotropical palms\".\n\nWhile some species are single-stemmed, others form multi-stemmed (caespitose) clumps. Coupled with variation in stem size, this produces a diversity of growth forms in the genus—solitary (single-stemmed) palms that grow into the subcanopy of the forest, solitary or caespitose palms that grow in the forest understorey and acaulescent palms which lack an aboveground stem.\n\nTwo species are characterised by an growth habit—\"A. acaulis\" and \"A. spicata\". Two other species—\"A. ulei\" and \"A. weberbaueri\"—occur in both acaulescent populations and those which produce above-ground stems. Several species are single-stemmed understorey palms, an unusual growth form. \"Aiphanes grandis\" and \"A. minima\" are single-stemmed palms which grow to be more than tall, while the remainder are multi-stemmed understorey species. Multi-stemmed palms range from plants with a single main stem and a few basal suckers to caespitose clumps of 20 densely packed stems. A variety of growth forms can exist within a single species and this appears to be influenced by habitat and environmental conditions.\n\nThe leaves of \"Aiphanes\" species are usually pinnately divided—rows of leaflets emerge on either side of the axis of the leaf in a feather-like or fern-like pattern. The sole exception to this is \"A. macroloba\" which has entire leaves. They are usually spirally arranged, but some species have a distichous leaf arrangement, a condition that is normal in palm seedlings but uncommon among adults. Old leaf bases detach cleanly from the stem, except in \"A. hirsuta\" subsp. \"fosteriorum\", which often has old leaf bases attached to the newer portions of the stem.\n\nLeaves are spiny but the degree varies both within and among species. Leaf sheaths are always densely spiny but the spines usually become smaller and sparser towards the ends of the leaves.\n\nSpines are characteristic of \"Aiphanes\" and other members of the subtribe Bactridinae. They are found almost everywhere on the plants and are especially well-developed on the stem, leaf bases, and the peduncle. In \"Aiphanes\", the spines are formed from the outer tissues of the plant and are not derived through the modification of other plant organs. They range from less than to more than long.\n\n\"Aiphanes\" species are pleonanthic—they flower repeatedly over the course of their lifespan—and monoecious, meaning that there are separate male and female flowers, but individuals plants bear both types of flowers. In \"Aiphanes\", male and female flowers are borne together on the same inflorescence. Usually only a single inflorescence is borne at each node, although \"A. gelatinosa\" often bears then in groups of three at a single node. The inflorescence usually consists of a main axis consisting of a peduncle and a rachis. The rachis bears rachillae, which are smaller branches which themselves bear the flowers, while the peduncle is the main stalk connecting the rachis with the stem of the plant. In some species there is second-order branching—the rachillae themselves are branched and the flowers are borne on these branches.\n\nFlowers are usually borne in groups of three—one female flower together with two male flowers. In some species groups of four flowers (two male and two female) have been reported. At the far end of the inflorescence, away from the axis of the tree, pairs of male flowers replace the triads of male and female flowers. Flower colour is poorly known. It must be recorded from live plants, since preserved flowers lose their colour over time, and records of these species in the wild are incomplete. Male flowers tend to fall into two groups—those with cream or yellow flowers and those with some amount of purple in the flowers. Female flowers are even less well known than male flowers.\n\nPollen grains are usually spherical to ellipsoid in shape, sometimes triangular, about 20 to 30 micrometres along their long axis and 20 to 30 µm in diameter. They are typically monosulcate, meridionosulcate or more rarely trichotomosulcate. The sulcus is a furrow which runs along the surface of the pollen grain and is usually the site at which pollination occurs. Monosulcate pollen has a single furrow that runs along the pole of the pollen grain. Meridionosulcate pollen have a furrow that runs along the equator of the pollen grain. Trichotomosulcate pollen, on the other hand, has three furrows. The outer layer of the pollen is covered to a greater or lesser extent with ridges, spines or warts. This \"sculpting\" tends to be more pronounced in species that are fly-pollinated and less pronounced in those that are pollinated by beetles or bees.\n\nThe fruit of \"Aiphanes\" species is usually a red, spherical, single-seeded drupe. A thin skin (or epicarp), which can be either smooth or spiny, covers the fleshy mesocarp, which is typically orange and sweet. The mesocarp of \"A. horrida\" has one of the highest reported carotene contents of any plant product and is also rich in protein. The endocarp, which encases the seed, is brown or black and very hard at maturity. Seeds are light brown with a thin seed coat (or testa) and white endosperm, which is sweet and tastes somewhat like coconut.\n\nPublished chromosome counts exist for two species, \"Aiphanes minima\" and \"A. horrida\"; haploid chromosome counts vary from 15 to 18. Borchsenius and Bernal report that it is difficult to get accurate chromosome counts in palms and that differences in chromosome counts may reflect these difficulties.\n\n\"Aiphanes\" is placed in the subfamily Arecoideae, the tribe Cocoseae and the subtribe Bactridinae, together with the genera \"Desmoncus\", \"Bactris\", \"Acrocomia\" and \"Astrocaryum\".\n\nIn his 1932 revision of the genus, German botanist Max Burret recognised 32 species. Seventeen of these were new species, mostly based on collections made by German botanist Wilhelm Kalbreyer in northern Colombia between 1877 and 1881. Working with a very narrow species concept, and not being familiar with the variation present in natural populations, Burret placed almost every specimen into a distinct species. The bombing of the Berlin Herbarium during the Second World War destroyed the only known collections for 13 of these 32 species, further complicating the situation.\n\nThe International Code of Botanical Nomenclature requires each species to be represented by a type collection. The destruction of Burret's type collections left many species only known from his original descriptions, which generally lacked illustrations. Other specimens (called neotypes) were designated to replace these, either by Rodrigo Bernal and colleagues in 1989 or by Borchsenius and Bernal in their 1996 monograph of the genus. Bernal and colleagues attempted to retrace Kalbreyer's travels in northern Colombia and collect specimens from as close as possible to the location of the original collections.\n\nBurret divided \"Aiphanes\" into two subgenera, \"Brachyanthera\" and \"Macroanthera\". Eleven species were placed in \"Macroanthera\", while the remainder were placed in \"Brachyanthera\". In their 1996 monograph, Borchsenius and Bernal questioned the applicability of these subgenera. They recognised that if \"Macroanthera\" was reduced to three species (\"A. horrida\", \"A. eggersii\" and \"A. minima\") it could form a viable grouping, but that this would leave \"Brachyanthera\" overly heterogeneous. Consequently, they abandoned Burret's use of subgenera.\n\nIn the three decades following Burret's delimitation of the genus a further 15 species were described, bringing the total species count to 47. Borchsenius and Bernal determined that many of these names were synonyms, although American botanist George Proctor disagreed with their decision to lump \"A. acanthophylla\" into \"A. minima\". Borchsenius and Bernal also described one new species, \"Aiphanes spicata\", bringing the total number of accepted species to 22. In two cases the destruction of the only known collections made it impossible to be absolutely certain that a name was a synonym. The current \"World Checklist of Selected Plant Families\", maintained by Rafaël Govaerts at the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, recognises 26 species, including four species described since the publication of Borchsenius and Bernal's monograph.\n\nBurret divided \"Aiphanes\" into two subgenera, \"Brachyanthera\" and \"Macroanthera\". Eleven species were placed in \"Macroanthera\", with the remainder in \"Brachyanthera\". In their 1996 monograph, Borchsenius and Bernal questioned the applicability of these subgenera. They recognised that if \"Macroanthera\" was reduced to three species (\"A. horrida\", \"A. eggersii\" and \"A. minima\") it could form a viable grouping, but that this would leave \"Brachyanthera\" overly heterogeneous. Consequently, they abandoned Burret's use of subgenera.\n\nThe earliest botanical description of a species in the genus was made by French botanist Charles Plumier, who described two species based on his visits to the West Indies between 1689 and 1695. Both of Plumier's species are now considered to be \"Aiphanes minima\". The same species was described by Dutch botanist Nikolaus Joseph von Jacquin in 1763. Spanish botanist José Celestino Mutis produced a detailed description of \"A. lindeniana\" and illustrations of that species and what is thought to be \"A. horrida\" in 1779.\n\nIn 1791 Joseph Gaertner included a species of \"Aiphanes\" in his \"De Fructibus et Seminibus Plantarum\", calling it \"Bactris minima\". This is the oldest validly published name for any member of the genus. The name \"Aiphanes\" was coined by German botanist Carl Ludwig Willdenow in 1801. He described a single species, \"A. aculeata\", in 1806.\n\nJacquin had used the name \"Caryota horrida\" to describe a plant that belonged to the same species (and may have been the same individual) described by Willdenow. Borchsenius and Bernal cite an 1809 publication date for Jacquin's description, which gave precedence to Willdenow's name. However, the more recent World Checklist (2006) gives an 1801 publication date for Jacquin's description, making \"A. horrida\" the correct name for the species.\n\nIn 1816 Alexander von Humboldt, Aimé Bonpland and Carl Sigismund Kunth described \"Martinezia caryotifolia\", adding another name to the list of synonyms for \"A. horrida\". Since the original diagnostic characters of \"Martinezia\" did not fit any existent species, it was redefined by Kunth to fit \"M. caryotifolia\". Consequently, \"Martinezia\" came to replace \"Aiphanes\" and the latter name was rarely used between 1847 and 1932. In 1857 Hermann Karsten created a new genus, \"Marara\", to accommodate two Colombian species, \"M. bicuspidata\" (later shown to be a synonym for \"A. horrida\") and \"M. erinacea\" (now \"A. erinacea\"). Hermann Wendland attempted to resurrect \"Aiphanes\" in 1878, merging \"Martinezia\" and \"Marara\" into it, but his proposal was ignored. In 1901 Orator F. Cook created two new genera—\"Curima\", into which he put \"A. minima\", and \"Tilmia\", which housed \"A. horrida\". In 1932, after publishing a species in \"Martinezia\", Burret changed his mind about the genus and synonymised it with \"Aiphanes\". This led to the current delimitation of the genus.\n\nSpecies accepted by the World Checklist of Selected Plant Families:\n\nThe genus \"Aiphanes\" ranges from the Dominican Republic and Panama in the north, to Trinidad and Tobago in the east, across Colombia and down along the Andes to Bolivia. In Brazil it only occurs along the border with Peru. \"Aiphanes\" is primarily South American—one species (\"A. hirsuta\") is present in Panama and two others (\"A. horrida\" and \"A. minima\") are found in the Caribbean. \"Aiphanes minima\", which is endemic to the insular Caribbean, is the only species absent from the South American mainland. Although \"A. horrida\" has been reported from Guyana and southern Venezuela these reports have not been verified with herbarium vouchers.\n\n\"Aiphanes horrida\" is the most widely distributed species. It ranges from Trinidad to Bolivia but is absent from Ecuador and northern Peru. Other species have narrower ranges with one centre of diversity in western Colombia and Ecuador and another minor one in northeastern Peru. The 2006 IUCN Red List includes three species which are endangered by habitat destruction—\"A. grandis\", \"A. leiostachys\" and \"A verrucosa\"—and three others considered vulnerable to the same threat—\"A. chiribogensis\", \"A. duquei\" and \"A. lindeniana\". Rodrigo Bernal and Gloria Galeano expanded this list in a 2005 review of the status of Colombian palms. They listed two species as critically endangered—\"A. graminifolia\", a species that was first described in 2002, and \"A. leiostachys\" (which was classified as endangered in the IUCN Red List). They classified two species as endangered—\"A. acaulis\" and \"A. parvifolia\"—and two species as vulnerable—\"A. gelatinosa\" and \"A. pilaris\". They also classified six species as near threatened—\"A. erinacea\", \"A. hirsuta\", \"A. lindeniana\" (vulnerable according to the IUCN Red List), \"A. linearis\", \"A. macroloba\" and \"A. simplex\". The threats to these species were not listed, but Jens-Christian Svenning reported that \"A. erinacea\" was threatened by logging given its limited distribution and poor ability to regenerate in disturbed forests. In addition to these, \"A. deltoidea\", which is widely distributed across the western Amazon Rainforest, is present at such low densities that it was classified as a rare species by Francis Kahn and Farana Moussa in 1994.\n\n\"Aiphanes\" species are palms of the forest understorey and subcanopy. The most widely distributed species, \"A. horrida\", occurs both in tropical dry forest and in more humid forest types, but there is a gap in its distribution which coincides with the wettest forests of the upper Amazon Basin. Two other species, \"A. minima\" and \"A. eggersii\", are also found in drier environments; \"A. eggersii\" is found in areas receiving as little as of precipitation annually. The remaining species are found in montane forests at high elevations or in wet—often very wet—lowland forests, including areas receiving as much as of annual precipitation.\n\nRecords of visits by pollinators exist for only a few species, but most of these suggest that the species are pollinated by insects. Flowers of \"A. chiribogensis\" produce small quantities of nectar, but lack a scent. Fruit flies (Drosophilidae), fungus gnats (Mycetophilidae, Sciaridae), midges (Cecidomyiidae, Ceratopogonidae) and micromoths (Lepidoptera) were recorded visiting these flowers, but bees and hover flies were not. \"Aiphanes eggersii\" was thought to be pollinated by bees and possibly by wind. Fruit flies (Drosophilidae), hover flies (Syrphidae), biting midges (Ceratopogonidae) and leaf beetles (Chrysomelidae) were recorded visiting the flowers of \"A. erinacea\", but bees were not. \"Aiphanes horrida\" was reportedly pollinated by wind, bees (Meliponidae), weevils (Curculionidae) and bugs (Hemiptera). Flies and weevils were observed on the flowers of \"A. simplex\".\n\nThe fruit of \"A. horrida\" is rich in vitamins and energy and likely to be eaten by many animals. Oilbirds are reported to eat its fruit and disperse its seeds. Squirrels are also reported to consume the fruit, despite the spiny nature of the tree. The fruit, flowers and seeds of \"A. minima\" are consumed by the vulnerable Saint Vincent amazon (\"Amazona guildingii\") and is also considered a potentially important food species for the critically endangered Puerto Rican amazon (\"Amazona vittata\").\n\nSeveral species show clumped distributions. Dispersal limitation has been invoked to explain the clumped distribution of adults and limited recruitment of seedlings in both \"A. erinacea\" in Ecuador and \"A. minima\" in Puerto Rico. Similarly, the rarity of \"A. lindeniana\" and \"A. simplex\" in Colombian forests may be linked to limited seed production and the limited effectiveness of seed dispersal by avian and mammalian frugivores.\n\n\"Aiphanes\" species have a long history of human use. The remains of carbonised seeds thought to belong to \"A. horrida\" have been found in archaeological sites in Colombia dating back to about 2800 BP; seeds of this species are still consumed and are traded in local markets. \"Aiphanes horrida\" is also widely planted as an ornamental, as is \"A. minima\". The fruit or seeds of \"A. deltoidea\", \"A. eggersii\", \"A. linearis\" and \"A. minima\" are all consumed locally. The palm heart of \"A. macroloba\" is consumed by the Coaiquer people of northwestern South America. Aiphanol, a compound isolated from \"A. horrida\", has shown significant inhibitory activity against cyclooxygenases; inhibition of these enzymes can provide relief from the symptoms of inflammation and pain.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263612", "title": "Salon-de-Provence Air Base", "text": "Salon-de-Provence Air Base\n\nSalon-de-Provence Air Base ( or BA 701) is a base of the French Air Force located south Salon-de-Provence in southern France.\n\nIt hosts the training facilities for the officers of the air force:\n\nIt hosts the demonstration formations of the French Air Force, including the \"Patrouille de France\".\n\nIn addition, it hosts a school of the French Navy: the school of Naval Aviation (EAN).\n\nSalon-de-Provence Air Base is a pre-World War II airfield, which was used by the Armée de l'Air during the early part of the war. It was briefly a base for RAF Bomber Command Wellingtons, which were sent to Salon from England, for raids on the Italian port of Genoa, as a part of Operation Haddock. After the 1940 Battle of France and the June Armistice with Nazi Germany, it became part of the limited () air force of the Vichy Government. Known Vichy units at Salon-de-Provence were:\n\nOn 11 November 1942, Salon-de-Provence Air Base was seized by Nazi forces as part of Case Anton, the occupation of Vichy and the Luftwaffe took control of the base. Under German control, the base became a bomber airfield for anti-shipping operations over the Mediterranean against American Convoys, and later, attacking Allied forces on Corsica and Sardinia after their capture from Italian forces (Regio Esercito) during 1943. Known units assigned were:\n\nIt was attacked on several missions by Allied bombers based in England while under German control. The airfield was sized by Allied Forces in August 1944 during Operation Dragoon, the Invasion of Southern France in August 1944 and was repaired and placed into operational use by the United States Army Air Forces XII Engineer Command, being turned over to Twelfth Air Force on 28 August 1944. It was designated as Advanced Landing Ground \"Y-16 Salon\".\n\nTwelfth Air Force stationed the 27th Fighter Squadron at the repaired field from 30 August, flying A-36 Apaches until moving north into eastern France in October. Also the 47th Bombardment Group flew A-20 Havoc light bombers from the field during September.\n\nThe use by American forces of the airfield was brief, and on 20 November 1944 it was returned to French control.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263626", "title": "Antiphrasis", "text": "Antiphrasis\n\nAntiphrasis is the rhetorical device of saying the opposite of what is actually meant in such a way that it is obvious what the true intention is.\n\nSome authors treat antiphrasis as merely a synonym for irony.\n\nSome euphemisms are antiphrases, such as \"Eumenides\" 'the gracious ones' to mean the Erinyes, deities of vengeance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263630", "title": "Wertpapierkennnummer", "text": "Wertpapierkennnummer\n\nThe Wertpapierkennnummer, (WKN, WPKN, WPK or simply Wert), is a German securities identification code. It is composed of six digits or capital letters (excluding I and O), and no check digit. \n\nThere have been several changes in the WKN definition:\n\nThe WKNs and DE-ISINs are provided by WM-Datenservice.\n\nWKNs may be obsolete in future, since they may be replaced by International Securities Identification Numbers (ISINs).\n\nLike most very long German words, \"Wertpapierkennnummer\" is a compound word: Wert-Papier-Kenn-Nummer, if translated literally, means value–paper–to know–number (Wertpapier = financial security; Kennnummer = identity number).\n\nBefore the German spelling reform of 1996 the correct spelling was \"Wertpapierkennummer\" with only two consecutive \"n\"’s, since the orthography rules allowed the same consonant three times in a row only under special circumstances. Since the reform, the spelling has been \"Wertpapierkennnummer\" with three consecutive \"n\"’s.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263631", "title": "Kissing Point, New South Wales", "text": "Kissing Point, New South Wales\n\nKissing Point is a point on the Parramatta River about 2 km south of Ryde, located in the suburb of Putney. Historically, the name referred to a much wider area than the current-day point; and perhaps originally to the point near Ryde Bridge where Settlers Park is now located, and where a 1948 brass plaque by the Council states.\n\nSeveral possibilities have been suggested for the origin of the name \"Kissing Point\". One is that the name was given because the area of water around it was the furthest up Parramatta River that heavily laden vessels could reach before their keels \"kissed\" the bottom. Another, more romantic possibility is the area was popular for picnics and that Governor Hunter may have had a kiss in return for his chivalry on one such occasion. A third is that Governor Hunter rowed up the river on a journey of exploration, had breakfast at Breakfast Point, and rowed across the river to Kissing Point where he kissed his wife goodbye before proceeding on his journey.\n\nThe area was inhabited by the Wallumedegal people prior to European Settlement.\n\nWhen the area was first settled by European colonists it was known as Eastern Farms. Land grants were made to 10 emancipated convicts in 1792. By 1794 the name had given way to Kissing Point. In the early 19th century the name was applied to an area including the current day Ryde, Putney and Gladesville.\n\nOne of the emancipists was James Squire who brewed the colony's first beer and became a wealthy business man. He grew hops in the area and established a brewery and a tavern on the location just west of the current-day Kissing Point. A plaque to James Squire is erected on the site.\n\nKissing Point was also an important source of fruits and vegetables for the early colony.\n\nBennelong died in the area. He was buried on the property of James Squire, near to the point.\n\nKidman and Mayoh's Shipyard established to build freight ships to replace freight fleet post World War I. A disastrous outcome, as the two ships built here were not commissioned, and were burnt and sold for salvage. Halvorsen's ships located where James Squire's original wharf stood. Halvorsen's made ships for World War II.\n\nKissing Point is in the Parish of Hunters Hill in the County of Cumberland. and is in the suburb of Putney.\n\nKissing Point is home to two wharfs; one at Bennelong Park and the other constructed off the very tip of the peninsula, the Sydney Ferries Kissing Point Wharf. Sydney Ferries operates a regular service to the Sydney CBD from the Kissing Point Wharf. Sydney Buses service 507 operates to the point.\n\nThere is a boat launching ramp adjacent to the Kissing Point Wharf with associated trailer parking. The point is a landmark on the Parramatta Valley Cycleway.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263636", "title": "Te Vaka", "text": "Te Vaka\n\nTe Vaka is an Oceanic music group that performs original contemporary Pacific music or \"South Pacific Fusion\". The group was founded in 1995 by singer and songwriter Opetaia Foa'i in New Zealand. They have toured the world consistently since 1997 and have won a number of awards including \"Best Pacific Music Album\" award for their albums \"Tutuki\" (2004) and \"Olatia\" (2007) from the New Zealand Music Awards and \"Best Pacific Group\" in the 2008 Pacific Music Awards According to the BBC, they are \"the world's most successful band playing original contemporary Pacific music.\"\n\nTe Vaka is a group of musicians and dancers with origins from various Polynesian backgrounds (including Tokelau, Tuvalu, Samoa and New Zealand) that formed in 1997, under the leadership of award-winning songwriter, Opetaia Foa'i. That year, they released their eponymous debut album through ARC Music, a UK/European record company. The album gained immediate success and recognition, being distributed to over 80 countries. Their follow-up album, \"Ki Mua\", was released through Warm Earth Records, and went #1 on world music charts and mainstream radio in the South Pacific.\n\nIn 2002, the band released their third album, \"Nukukehe\". The album gained the group a nomination in the New Zealand Music Awards and the BBC Radio 3 Awards for World Music. Their next albums entered the European World Music Charts, as well as winning numerous awards.\n\nThrough their career, Te Vaka has performed extensively around the world, performing in London’s Royal Festival Hall and Ronnie Scott's Jazz Club, as well as headlining music festivals throughout Europe like WOMAD. They have also performed at the APEC ministerial dinners and America's Cup events in Auckland, the Commonwealth Games in Melbourne, the Rugby World Cup in Paris and the Olympic Games in Beijing.\n\nIn 2010 and 2011, the band completed two tours in North America. That same year, Te Vaka released their seventh album, \"Havili\".\n\nIn 2015, the band was selected by Walt Disney Pictures to contribute to the soundtrack of the 2016 animated film \"Moana\".\n\nTe Vaka uses traditional musical instruments from the Pacific region like pate (single and double log drums), pa'u (indigenous goat skin conga), and bass drums.\n\nMost of their songs are written in Tokelauan language, reflecting the heritage of band founder, singer, and main songwriter, Opetaia Foa'i. Foa'i was born in Western Samoa, to a Tokelauan father and a Tuvaluan mother, and raised in a Tokelauan community in New Zealand. He has said that the inspiration for his music comes from his multi-cultural upbringing. However, some songs are also written in Samoan and Tuvaluan languages, which are the native tongues of most of the other band members.\n\nAs a result of this mixture of sounds and diversity of influences, their music has been referred to as \"a truly pan-Pacific sound\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263644", "title": "Singapore Post", "text": "Singapore Post\n\nSingapore Post Limited, commonly abbreviated as SingPost, is a postal service and courier company in Singapore. It is the country's designated Public Postal Licensee (PPL) which provides both domestic and international postal services. The company is a wholly-owned subsidiary of multinational telecommunications conglomerate Singtel.\n\nThe company provides mail collection and delivery services throughout Singapore. Letters and parcels are deposited in a post or parcel boxes or are collected in bulk from businesses, this is then transported to the SingPost sorting offices.\n\nIt also provides logistics services in the domestic market and global delivery services. SingPost also offers products and services including postal, agency and financial services through its post offices, Self-service Automated Machines (SAMs) and vPOST, its internet portal. Its headquarters is located in Paya Lebar, Singapore.\n\nAs of 2020, Singapore has 59, 299 Self-service Automated Machines (SAMs), a SAMPLUS, 40 postal agencies and more than 800 licensed stamp vendors. There are also 8,907 postal boxes installed at various locations throughout the city-state. \n\nPostal Services were available in Singapore since the island was founded by Sir Stamford Raffles in 1819. Initially, mail services were handled by the military authorities and then by the Master Attendant in 1823. The volume of mail was very small in those days and letters were collected and delivered from a single mail office. The Post Office, as it was then known, shared a room with the Master Attendant's Marine Office and the clerk to the Registrar of Import and Export. The whole establishment of the post office in the 1830s consisted of one European clerk, one local writer and a peon.\n\nTo cope with the increasing volume of mail, the Post Office, then known as the Singapore Post Office, later General Post Office, was moved in 1854 to its own building near the Town Hall by the side of the Singapore River. Although it was more spacious, there were frequent complaints regarding its location. The Commercial Square (business sector) was on the opposite side of the river, so going to the Post office was inconvenient as one had to cross the river by boat. After 1856, a footbridge was constructed across the river and a toll of cent was levied.\n\nAs trade flourished in Singapore and both postal and marine traffic grew heavier, the Post Office was separated from the Marine Office and it became a separate department in October 1858. During the period 1819 and 1858, letters for posting had to be handed in at the Post Office. No postage stamps were used but a register was kept of all letters received at the Post Office and of the names of sailing ships on which they were conveyed.\n\nStamped receipts were also given for all letters sent to the Post Office for dispatch. For the convenience of the residents, a register was kept of their individual postage accounts on the understanding that all postage due would be regularly settled every month. The first postage stamps were introduced for payment of postage only in 1854. In the early days, the flagstaff at Government Hill (now Fort Canning) was eagerly watched as flying of a flag at daylight, or the firing of a gun at night, signified the arrival of a ship with mail. This infused new life into the quiet community.\n\nOn receipt of letters from incoming ships, the Post Office sorters would proceed to register alphabetically all the letters before sending them out through the postmen for delivery. Postal delivery services by means of bullock cart, horse carriage or on foot, were first restricted to the town area. Posting boxes were later installed in the town area for the posting of mail which were then collected by horse-drawn mail coaches.\n\nIn 1873, a new General Post office was built on the site of the former Fort Fullerton, a location which was much nearer to the commercial centre of the town. However, the British Government failed to foresee the needs of the future, with the result that the building had to be replaced by another on practically the same site. The new General Post Office was completed in 1885, three years after approval was obtained.\n\nThe General Post Office was closed on 23 April 1921. All the equipment were moved to a building on the recently reclaimed land at Collyer Quay, and staff worked at this temporary post office during the construction of Fullerton Building. The post office was transferred back to Fullerton Building on 23 July 1928 and has remained there since.\n\nThe latter part of the 19th century marked the modern phase of the development in the history of the Singapore postal service. Services were extended to include a parcel post service, money order and postal order services and a post office savings bank. 1897 saw the establishment of the first sub-post offices, and by 1938, some 20 sub-post offices were already providing decentralised postal facilities on the island. The horse-drawn mail coaches were withdrawn and replaced by motor vans in 1914 as the mail traffic handled steadily increased.\n\nIn 1982, the Postal Services Department merged with the then \"Telecommunication Authority of Singapore\", also known as Telecoms.\n\nIn 1992, the \"Telecommunication Authority of Singapore\" was split into three entities:\n\nSingapore Post Limited was listed on the mainboard of the Singapore Exchange (SGX-ST) on 13 May 2003.\n\nSingapore Post is the first Public Postal Licensee. TAS granted the licence in 1992 in accordance with section 42 of the Telecommunication Authority of Singapore Act 1992. As a licensee, Singapore Post is empowered to operate postal services with the exclusive privilege of receiving, collecting and delivering letters and postcards from one place to another until 31 March 2007.\n\nSingPost was fined S$100,000 in 2017 and S$300,000 in 2018 for failing to meet mail delivery standards by IMDA.\n\nSingPost has made several acquisitions to strengthen and grow its business. In 2009, it acquired the remaining 50% stake in G3 Worldwide Aspac (G3AP), thereby giving the company presence in 10 countries (including Singapore). It also raised its stake in Malaysian Logistics company GDEX to 27% in 2011.\n\nAlibaba bought a 10.35% stake in SingPost for S$312.5 million in May 2014. Both parties also signed an agreement to pursue a joint venture in the business of e-commerce logistics.\n\nIn October 2015, SingPost acquired a 96.3 per cent stake in TradeGlobal for US$168.6 million (S$210 million), thereby expanding its e-commerce footprint in the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263645", "title": "Peucedanum ostruthium", "text": "Peucedanum ostruthium\n\nPeucedanum ostruthium or Imperatoria ostruthium, Masterwort, is a species of flowering plant in the family Apiaceae. It is native to the mountains of Central and Southern Europe, but has been widely introduced outside its native range.\n\nMasterwort is native to the mountains of Central and Southern Europe, including the Carpathians, Alps, northern Apennines, Massif Central and isolated occurrences in the Iberian Peninsula. It has, however, been widely introduced and cultivated and its native range is therefore not entirely clear.\n\nMasterwort is used as a flavouring for various liqueurs and bitters. Its roots and leaves have been used in the traditional Austrian medicine internally (as tea, liqueurs and wine) and externally (as fumigation, tincture or incense) for treatment of disorders of the gastrointestinal tract, skin, respiratory tract, cardiovascular system, infections, fever, flu and colds.\n\nThe plant is a source of coumarins, including oxypeucedanin, ostruthol, imperatorin, osthole, isoimperatorin and ostruthin.\n"}
{"id": "2263674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263674", "title": "Principal Officials Accountability System", "text": "Principal Officials Accountability System\n\nPrincipal Officials Accountability System, commonly referred to as the Ministerial system (), sometimes the Accountability system, was introduced in Hong Kong by chief executive Tung Chee Hwa in July 2002. It is a system whereby all principal officials, including the Chief Secretary, Financial Secretary, Secretary for Justice and head of government bureaux would no longer be politically neutral career civil servants. Instead, they would all be political appointees chosen by the chief executive.\n\nUnder the new system, all heads of bureaux would become Ministers, members of the Executive Council, a refashioned cabinet. They would report directly to the chief executive instead of the Chief Secretary or the Financial Secretary.\n\nPOAS was portrayed as the key to solving previous administrative problems, notably the lack of co-operation of high-ranking civil servants with the chief executive. The changes were introduced by Tung at the beginning of his second term, with the hope of resolving difficulties he faced in governance.\n\nIt was expanded and superseded by the Political Appointment System in 2008.\n\nAfter the transfer of sovereignty, Hong Kong inherited the colonial system that all positions in the government were filled by civil servants. The historical bureaucracy was necessitated by the nature of colonial rule. Government policies and legislations were all dominated by the bureaucracy, led by the Governor, with the executive and legislative councils, all of whose members were appointed by the Governor. A web of advisory boards and committees, served to support and supplement policies, thereby giving the system some sense of elite participation and endorsement.\n\nThe Sino-British Joint Declaration and the Basic Law had assumed the continuity of a bureaucracy-led government to preserve continuity of the government machine. Under this system, only the Chief Secretary, Financial Secretary and Secretary for Justice were ex-officio members of the Executive Council (EXCO); Unofficial members were majority in the council. Thus principal officials during the last British administration stayed in their original portfolios. In effect, the first non-colonial administration was a coalition government with top bureaucrats headed by then Chief Secretary for Administration, Anson Chan.\n\nSince the reversion to China, there has been an erosion of the running principles of the Executive Council (Exco) – some Exco members have violated the \"collective responsibility\" principles, namely being unsupportive to the decisions made by Exco. See this as the cause of many of his policy failures such as the \"85,000 Housing Reform\", Tung introduced POAS in 2002 to remedy the weaknesses as he perceived of the Hong Kong government.\n\nThe \"short pile\" scandal shows that the government and the chief executive fail to hold top civil servants, namely permanent secretary, accountable. Being the top of bureaucracy, permanent secretary no longer maintain political neutrality as they are bridging public and lower civil servants’ suggestions and giving advice to directors and executives; practically they are holding power for policy-making. Political neutrality is seen as an unwritten convention to promote impartiality within government and it is “the fundamental value for good governance” as bureaucrats are not elected, they are not meant to represent popular interest and do not capture the mandate to exert any kind of power. Yet, power is exercised and no mechanisms of accountability can hold them fully accountable as, firstly, the Legislative Council can hold answerability by inviting them into enquiry sessions,passing a motion for non-confidence does not entails dismissal nor disciplinary action as it is not stated in the Basic Law or any statute; secondly, they are not members of the Executive Council and not administratively accountable to the chief executive.\nOn 10 October 2001 Tung outlined an accountability system under which principal officials would serve no longer than the chief executive who appointed the official. Sixteen government bureaux would be consolidated into 11, and bureau heads not appointed as ministers would be retitled 'Permanent Secretaries. The principal officials would be the Chief Secretary, Financial Secretary, Secretary for Justice and Directors of the 11 Bureaux, who could be selected from within or outside the civil service. Under this system, the chief executive is able to appoint the Secretaries of Department and the Directors of Bureau directly and they are withdrawn from the civil service and would be employed on contract. They would be appointed by the Central Government on the recommendation of the chief executive. To allay fears of the threat to civil service neutrality, the Secretary for Civil Service would be a civil servant.\n\nAfter the introduction of the POAS, the chief executive would appoint all principal officials to Exco under the new accountability system, and Exco would become a small enough to be an effective decision-making body, a \"de facto\" 'cabinet', bearing collective responsibility for all policy decisions. Only a few full-time non-officials retained as \"ministers-without-portfolio\", thus aiming to achieve policy coherence and co-ordination within government.\n\nThe system is aimed at raising the accountability of the civil service, so the political appointees are responsible for all their job aspects and will step down if they make any failure. \"Certainly, the officials should be responsible for the success and failure for the policies for which they are responsible,\" Tung said\n\nTung presented a framework for the system to Legco in April 2002. It was announced that the appointees would report directly to the chief executive. They would leave the civil service, and be employed on contract. The civil service would remain permanent, meritocratic and politically neutral. The highest-ranking civil servants would be re-titled \"Permanent Secretaries\", would work to their respective principal officials under the accountability system, and would not have to shoulder the public responsibility for the performance of the bureaux. Cash remuneration package for principal officials under the accountability system would be in the region of $3.74 million, $3.87 million, $4.01 million and $4.15 million per annum for Directors of Bureau, SJ, FS and CS respectively.\n\nOn 24 June 2002, Tung announced the composition of his new cabinet, to be in place for the start of his second five-year term on 1 July. Tung heralded this as the \"dawning of a new era for the governance of Hong Kong... and more accountable to the people of Hong Kong.\" He added: \"Ours will be an open, enlightened and progressive government.\"\n\nThe proposals raised concerns that Tung was moving the system towards one man rule. Dr Anthony Cheung, professor in public administration at the City University, suggested that it may be a silent political revolution in disguise.\nProfessor DeGolyer of Baptist University echoed concerns that the proposals would severely weaken Hong Kong's system of checks and balances. He feared that as bureau heads would no longer report through the Chief Secretary and Financial Secretary, senior civil servants' career protections would be more vulnerable to the chief executive's pressure. The chief executive is required, by Article 56 of the Basic Law, to state for the record his reasons for rejecting a majority opinion of Exco members. The changes sought to Exco, previously dominated by civil servants, would remove one further constraint to the power of the chief executive. Furthermore, as Political secretaries would also have a say over who will become their permanent secretaries, a toadying culture among civil servants towards their political masters would be created.\n\nThere were criticisms from political observers of a lack of public consultation, then the legislation was rushed through.\n\nIn preparation for the introduction of POAS, the Tung allied himself with the Democratic Alliance for the Betterment of Hong Kong (DAB) and the Liberal Party, resulting in a clear division of the political spectrum – the pro-government camp, and the anti-government camp led by the Democratic Party (DP).\n\nAs a result of the appointment of the heads of the Liberal Party and DAB to the Executive Council to form a \"ruling alliance, the pro-democracy parties and individuals were marginalised.\n\nThe protection Tung offered to his beleaguered officials was one of the factors that led to the 1 July protest in which hundreds of thousands of Hong Kong people participated. Only after the protest did Tung reluctantly accepted the resignation of Regina Ip and Anthony Leung.\n\nIn 2004, academic think-tank headed by Anthony Cheung published a survey on POAS. Overall, many respondents felt \"regression in the governance of the Tung administration, with no significant improvements being made in the past 12 months,\" Cheung said. Alex Chan, social science lecturer at Hong Kong Polytechnic University, said the survey results showed the accountability system remained a mystery to the public, particularly among the middle class and professionals. In the wake of the forced resignations of Yeoh, Ip and Leung due to public pressure, Tung said that the POAS history was very short, but vowed to strengthen the system.\n\nIn 2008, political commentator Frank Ching remarked: \"six years after the system was introduced, we have yet to see a minister voluntarily resign to take political responsibility for anything.\"\n\nFirstly, the former CE ordered the former Secretary of Health, Welfare and Food Yeoh Eng-kiong to \"investigate himself\" after SARS, as a way to hold the secretary accountable, yet, absurdly, the government's later report declared that no officials should step down for the outbreak of SARS. He resigned solely because of public pressure.\n\nSecondly, in July 2002, Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Ltd. made a proposal to cancel listings of companies trading below HK$0.50 for 30 straight days. On the day of its announcement, panic selling caused a loss of HK$10 billion in the local stock market. Seventeen companies' shares lost more than 30 per cent of their value, and about HK$6 billion in market capitalisation was wiped off 105 listed companies. While a government enquiry absolved the ministers, and put the blame on HKEx chief executive, legislators criticised the government for avoiding responsibility, and cast doubt on the effectiveness of the accountability system. Lee Cheuk-yan said: \"[l]imited by the authority and terms of reference, the report did not make a detailed study of the accountability for the incident.\"\n\n\"The Standard\" revealed that some government officials argued there was no need to apologise because the report did not single Ma out for criticism. Government legal experts had cautioned that such an apology would set a bad precedent and could spark litigation. Ma did apologise, under clamour of public pressure.\n\nThen Financial Secretary Anthony Leung came under severe criticism in March 2003 when it was revealed that he bought a HK$790,000 (US$101,282) Lexus LS 430 vehicle, just weeks before he raised the tax on new vehicles in his budget.\n\nLeung denied that he was trying to avoid the new tax, which would have cost him an additional HK$50,000. Leung claimed that he had decided on the tax increase after buying the car. News of the car purchase sparked fury at Leung's conflict of interest, and concerns over his integrity for failing to declare his purchase to Exco. When it was revealed that James Tien, Stephen Lam and Yeoh Eng-kiong had also declared their purchases at the relevant meeting while Leung had not, Legislators were suspicious of a cover-up.\n\nTung Chee Hwa defended Leung's integrity, saying that although Leung had breached the Code of Conduct under the accountability system, but believed Leung did not intend to cover up. Tung did blame Leung for failing to tell him when or after he bought the new car, but added that \"[w]hether or not he made a declaration at the Exco meeting was relatively unimportant.\" Leung tendered his resignation, which Tung refused to accept.\n\nThe Hong Kong Harbour Fest, held from 17 October to 11 November 2003, was part of a HK$1 billion program to revive the economy after SARS. The event was a Government underwritten, and organised by InvestHK, under the auspices of the Economic Relaunch Working Group, in collaboration with the American Chamber of Commerce. The event and its organisation, which resulted in massive cost overruns and $100 million in government underwriting, was heavily criticised in the media.\n\nAccording to Christine Loh, the changes to civil servants' responsibilities and accountability a result of political appointments did not stop Mike Rowse, a senior civil servant from being made a scapegoat of political failure in the case. Frank Ching pointed to the huge credibility gap of the government. He decried the attempt by Henry Tang to shift political responsibility from himself, as the relevant minister, to a senior civil servant, as a travesty of justice, and said it went against the Accountability System.\n\nOn 26 July 2006 the government released the Consultation Document on the Further Development of the Political Appointment System. Two new posts, Deputy Directors of Bureaus (DAB) and Assistants to Directors (AD) would be added to the political appointment layer. Each Director of Bureau would be assisted by the two new appointees and constitute the political team while the civil servants carry out the administrative and executive tasks of the Government. Like for the heads of Bureaux, these 2 new posts can also be drawn from within or outside the civil service, and appointees may be with or without political background.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263689", "title": "East Ryde, New South Wales", "text": "East Ryde, New South Wales\n\nEast Ryde is a suburb in Northern Sydney, in the state of New South Wales, Australia. East Ryde is located 12 kilometers north-west of the Sydney central business district, in the local government area of the City of Ryde. East Ryde sits on the western bank of the Lane Cove River, and is sometimes referred to as North Shore. East Ryde shares the postcode of 2113 with adjacent suburb of North Ryde though it does not have a Post Office of its own.\n\nEast Ryde is a relatively small, quiet suburb surrounded by bushland and water on all but one side. The majority of East Ryde is located on top of a ridge, formerly a council rubbish tip, a locality known as the Dress Circle Estate, which was developed by Hooker Rex and opened in 1960. The areas of East Ryde that are at the banks of the Lane Cove River overlook the mangrove wetlands and are characterised by large, modern homes (mainly along Pittwater Road).\n\nThe whole area between the Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers was originally known by its Aboriginal name Wallumatta. Contact with the first white settlement's bridgehead into Australia quickly devastated much of the population through epidemics of smallpox and other diseases. Their descendants live on, though their language, social system, way of life and traditions are mostly lost. The Aboriginal name survives in a local reserve, the Wallumatta Nature Reserve, located at the corner of Twin and Cressy roads. Very few remnants of Sydney Turpentine-Ironbark Forest still exist. The most substantial undisturbed area is the Wallumatta Nature Reserve in North Ryde, which is owned and managed by the National Parks and Wildlife Service. This small and critically endangered reserve, also known as the Macquarie Hospital Bushland, is one of the last remnants of the remaining 0.5% (as at 2007) of original and endangered turpentine-ironbark forests on Wianamatta shale soil in Sydney. See Sydney Turpentine-Ironbark Forest.\n\nThe entire area was once turpentine-ironbark forest. The area that is now East Ryde was originally known as the 'North Ryde Dress Circle Estate', as it was part of North Ryde before forging its own identity as a suburb.\n\nEast Ryde is bounded by Cressy Road, Coxs Road, the Lane Cove River, Strangers Creek and Buffalo Creek. It was originally part of the Field of Mars Common. This was an area set aside by Governor King in 1804 for breeding stock owned by the early settlers whose allotments were inadequate to sustain their sheep and cattle. Because of its size and rugged character however, the common became infamous as a haven for escaped convicts and robbers. As early as 1856 there were proposals to sell the Field of Mars Common to raise finance for much needed infrastructure, but it was not until 1874 that the Field of Mars Common Resumption Act was passed in the New South Wales parliament. The first land sale of the new subdivision was held in September 1885 and included lots around Kittys Creek and today's East Ryde, though at this time East Ryde did not have a distinctive suburb name – it was part of North Ryde. An early proposal to link the released land to other parts of Sydney involved a tramway to the Field of Mars. In 1884 it was proposed that the tram would run through Balmain and Gladesville, crossing Strangers Creek where a bridge would be built. The tramway would traverse the common on its eastern side, probably along Pittwater Road, and then proceed north. More than 16 years later, on the same day as the opening of the De Burghs Bridge across the Lane Cove River, the Minister for Works proceeded to Gladesville to turn the first sod of the Field of Mars tramway – a tramway that was never built. In 1925 the finance committee of the New South Wales government approved the construction of a railway line between Eastwood and St Leonards. Housing developments appeared along the proposed route. One of these was on a hill near a proposed station at the eastern corner of today's Macquarie Hospital grounds. Because of its elevated position it was called the Dress Circle Estate. This estate was roughly two-thirds of the modern suburb of East Ryde. The 1926 subdivision plan clearly shows the influence that the promised railway had on this development. In larger typeface than 'The Dress Circle Estate' are the words 'Eastwood–St Leonards New railway' - \"60 choice elevated lots overlooking the beautiful Lane Cove River... close to a proposed station on the new electric railway from Eastwood to St Leonards\". There were two roads indicated – Twin Road and Mary Avenue. There was confidence that the railway would go ahead because it had been a passed by the State Parliamentary Works Committee. In 1929 the estate was extended with an addition called The Hill Top Estate. However, in the same year the government cancelled the proposed railway. Development of the estate ceased after only one house had been built.\n\nHooker Rex retained the original name of the Dress Circle Estate and named the streets according to a theatrical theme. Some of the greatest Australian stars of stage and screen are commemorated in the street names of East Ryde. Personalities commemorated include opera singers June Bronhill, Ronald Dowd and Dame Nellie Melba (Melba Avenue was formerly an extension of Twin Road); actors Diane Cilento, Peter Finch, Cecil Kellaway, John McCallum, Michael Pate and Madge Elliott; comedians Kitty Bluett, Roy Rene and Gladys Moncrieff; songwriter, entertainer and radio broadcasting pioneer Jack Lumsdaine; author and playwright Steele Rudd; and Peggy Sager, prima ballerina. Heard Street (original name of Rene Street) was named after Henry Heard, a settler in 1858 and an alderman on the first Ryde Council in 1871. Mary Avenue (now Elliott Avenue) was named after Henry's wife, Mary Jane Heard. Twin Road (formerly Bridge Road, extended into today's Moncrieff Drive and Melba Drive) was named after Henry and Mary's twin daughters Laura and Mabel, who were born in 1873.\n\nOn 1 October 1960 the Mayor of Ryde, Alderman ELS Hall, unveiled a drinking fountain and plaque in the reserve outside the shopping centre, commemorating the successful development of 500 home sites and the construction of 250 modern homes on the Dress Circle Estate. Following the increase in the area's population, Ryde East Public School opened in 1961. In 1970 another 20 home sites were created when Finch Avenue was extended into rezoned crown land between Moncrieff Drive and Stranger's Creek. Covenants controlled the type and quality of houses on the estate. The blocks were only one-sixth of an acre (650 square metres) instead of one-quarter of an acre (1,000 square metres). These were big enough for single dwellings, the only type allowed under the covenant, rather than multiple dwellings.\n\nA group of residents, in July 2006 unsuccessfully campaigned to have the suburb name changed to increase the area's housing prices. Suggestions included Bel Air, Melba, Dress Circle, Boronia Heights, Bennelong and Wallumatta. The motion was ultimately defeated at a public meeting, with approximately 75% of East Ryde residents present voting to keep the suburb's present name.\n\nDuring the 1980s, a long-distance walking trail from Sydney to Newcastle was created, known as the Great North Walk. The trail partly follows the Lane Cove River and passes through East Ryde between Buffalo Creek and Magdala Park. Major features in this area are the mangrove communities at Buffalo Creek and Kittys Creek, where boardwalks have been constructed to allow walkers to walk easily through the mangroves. Buffalo Creek Reserve offers picnic facilities.\n\nRyde East Primary School is located on Twin Road, with 350 students. The school features in Ursula Dubosarsky's book \"Jerry\", based on the death of an old horse that lived in a field opposite the school, and was greatly loved by the children. Dubosarsky had spent some months working in a building in the school grounds for the NSW School Magazine. \"Jerry\" is dedicated to Ryde East Public School.\n\nHeatley Reserve, located in the East Ryde Shopping Centre complex, is named after Ernest William Heatley, the former owner and operator of the adjacent newsagency who was murdered in July 1983 by Gary James Boreland during an attempted robbery.\n\nBrereton Park, bordered by Melba Drive, Bronhill Avenue and Pittwater Road, is named after John Le Gay Brereton.\n\n\n\nAccording to the 2016 census, there were 2,454 residents in East Ryde. 72.1% of people were born in Australia and 75.7% of people spoke only English at home. The most common ancestries were Australian 23.3%, English 22.6%, Irish 9.2%, Chinese 7.3% and Scottish 6.5%. The most common responses for religion were Catholic 35.4%, No Religion 28.3% and Anglican 13.4%. The median weekly household income was $2,585, considerably higher than the national median of $1,438.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263693", "title": "George Lambton, 2nd Earl of Durham", "text": "George Lambton, 2nd Earl of Durham\n\n(George Frederick) D'Arcy Lambton, 2nd Earl of Durham (5 September 1828 – 27 November 1879), styled Viscount Lambton from 1833 to 1840, was a British peer.\n\nLambton was born on 5 September 1828 at Copse Hill, Wimbledon and was baptised at St Mary's Church, Wimbledon on 29 September that year. He was the second (and, later, eldest surviving) son of John Lambton, 1st Earl of Durham, and his second wife Lady Louisa Elizabeth. His mother was a daughter of Charles Grey, 2nd Earl Grey. He was known by his third name of D'Arcy, the maiden name of an ancestor whose inheritance included land surrounding what would later become Lambton Castle. From his father's first marriage to Harriet Cholmondeley (the illegitimate daughter of George Cholmondeley, 1st Marquess of Cholmondeley), his elder half-sister was Lady Frances Charlotte Lambton, who married John Ponsonby, 5th Earl of Bessborough.\n\nAt age 11, Lambton inherited the earldom of Durham when his father, who served as British Ambassador to Russia and Governor-General of Canada, died in 1840. His mother died from a severe cold just over a year later. He attended Cambridge University in 1846.\n\nLord Durham served as Lord-Lieutenant of County Durham from 1854 to 1879.\n\nOn 19 July 1877, the Earl of Durham signed a document giving an acre of his land to be used for the construction of a church in the newly formed parish of Fatfield.Fatfield, St George's church, Washington was completed in 1879 and was built in the Early English Gothic style.\n\nOn 23 May 1854, Lord Durham married Lady Beatrix Frances Hamilton (1835–1871) at St George's, Hanover Square. Lady Beatrix was the second daughter of James Hamilton, 1st Duke of Abercorn and Lady Louisa Jane Russell (a daughter of John Russell, 6th Duke of Bedford. Together, they had thirteen children:\n\n\nThe Countess of Durham died on 21 January 1871, aged 35, and just three days after the birth of her youngest child. In 1876, Lord Durham had his right eye removed after he was shot by his son, Charles, while on a shooting party. Lord Durham died at 6:05pm on 27 November 1879 at his town house on Hill Street in Mayfair, aged 51, and was succeeded in the earldom by his eldest twin son John. The Earl and Countess and some of their children are buried in St Barnabas' Church, Burnmoor, which the Earl had built at his own expense when the parish was created in 1867.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263721", "title": "Veenai Dhanammal", "text": "Veenai Dhanammal\n\nVeenai Dhanammal () (1867–1938) was a highly accomplished Carnatic musician, and the torchbearer of the school of Carnatic music that goes by her name. She was both a vocalist and a performer on the Saraswati veena. The prefix \"Veenai\" in her name is an indicator of her exceptional mastery of that instrument. \nDhanammal was born in George Town, Madras (now Chennai), into a family of professional musicians and dancers. Her grandmother Kamakshi was a reputed dancer, and her mother was a vocalist who trained under Subbaraya Sastri, the son of Syama Sastri of the Carnatic music composer trinity.\n\nIn addition to training by her family members, Dhanammal also learned from Walajapet Balakrishna Das (\"Padam Baladas\"), a blind musician who was a repository of the \"padams\" of Kshetrayya, and Satanur Pancanatha Iyer.\n\n\"Regarding the veenai as an instrument complete and perfect in itself, she played it without plectrum, and often accompanied by her own singing. Her music is documented in a set of historical recordings. Her personal style, known as the \"Veenai Dhanammal bani\", is still regarded as a yardstick in terms of adherence to traditional values and profoundity of music expression. Musicians, critics and composers attended her private recitals in Chennai. Her continuing impact is ascribed to the scope of her repertoire, knowledge and refinement. Many songs by leading composers like Narasimhacarlu, Mutialpet Ponnusvami, Tiruvottriyur Tyagayyar, and especially Dharmapuri Subbarayar were composed for, or inspired by, Dhanammal. These compositions, mainly \"javali\" and \"padam\", have been preserved, taught, and published by her grandchildren, T. Sankaran, dancer T. Balasaraswati, T. Muktha, T. Brinda, and T. Viswanathan.\"\n\nA commemorative postage stamp on her was issued on 03-December-2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263731", "title": "Mawla", "text": "Mawla\n\nMawlā (, plural \"mawālī\" ()), is a polysemous Arabic word, whose meaning varied in different periods and contexts. \n\nIn the days before Muhammad, the term originally applied to any form of tribal association. \n\nIn the Quran and hadiths it is used in a number of senses, including 'Lord', 'guardian', 'trustee', and 'helper'. \n\nAfter Muhammad's death, this institution was adapted by the Umayyad dynasty to incorporate new converts to Islam into Arab-Muslim society and the word \"mawali\" gained currency as an appellation for converted non-Arab Muslims in the early Islamic caliphates. \n\nThe word \"mawla\" is derived from the root \"w-l-y\" (), meaning \"to be close to\", \"to be friends with\", or \"to have power over\". \"Mawla\" can have reciprocal meanings, depending on whether it is used in the active or passive voice: \"master\" or \"slave/freedman\", \"patron\" or \"client\", \"uncle\" or \"nephew\", or simply friend. Originally, \"mawāli\" were clients of an Arab tribe, but with the advent of Islam, the term came to refer to non-Arab Muslims and other client allies of the Muslim community.\n\nThe term originated in the days before Muhammad to refer to a politically-active class of slaves and freedmen, but it gained prominence during the Umayyad Caliphate, as many non-Arab subjects converted to Islam. The influx of non-Arab converts to Islam created a new difficulty in incorporating them into tribal Arab society. The solution appeared to be the creation of a contract, a wala', through which the non-Arab Muslims acquired an Arab patron (mawla). They continued to pay a similar tax that was required from the people of the book and were generally excluded from government and the military until the end of the Umayyad Caliphate. In Khorasan and Persia, the Arabs held most of the higher positions in the armed forces and in the upper echelons of government.\n\nThe Abbasid Revolution in 750 CE challenged the political and social privileges held so far by the Arabs. The key figure in this revolution was Abu Muslim Khorasani. He was a Persian, born in Isfahan and therefore had impeccable credentials of birth with the exploited Persian majority. The legacy of Umayyad excesses had created extreme bitterness among the local population. Unfair taxation had fostered dislike of the Arabs among the Persians. Under the Abbasid rulers of the 9th century, the non-Arab converts comprised an important part of the army. The institution of wala' as a requirement to enter Muslim society ceased to exist after the fall of the Umayyads, as the Abbasids favoured a universal interpretation of Islam that was not the exclusive religion of the Arab elite. However, the rise to political power of non-Arab ethnic groups eventually restricted the power of the Abbasid caliph in Baghdad, as Persian, Turkic and Berber Muslims began to form independent sultanates. \n\nAbu Hanifa was the founder of the Hanafi school of jurisprudence within Sunni Islam and lived through the Abbasid Revolution. He famously stated in one of his dictums: \"The belief of a newly converted Turk is the same as that of an Arab from Hejaz.\" \n\nHowever, this institution continued in the Abbasid period on a much smaller scale with the formation of armies entirely composed of non-Muslim slaves in the service of the Caliph. These slaves were considered to be the mawali of the Caliph and were thus in theory more loyal to the Caliph than free Muslim troops. This practice persisted throughout Islamic history through to the Ottoman period, who formed their own corps of non-Muslim slave troops known as the Janissaries.\n\nThe word \"Mawla\" is regarded as a considerable word in Ghadir Khumm event (regarding the sentence which was declared by the Islamic prophet Muhammad about Ali, that he said: \"For whoever I am his \"mawla\", 'Ali is his \"mawla\".\"). There have been mentioned meanings for this word \"mawla\", amongst: \"leader\", administrator, friend, Lord, owner, master, slave, follower, helper, one who has more right in something, wali, an ally, etc. Shia Muslims argue that in the context of the sermon (Ghadir Khumm), Muhammad intended that the word \"mawla\" to be taken as \"leader\". They therefore see this to be the official designation of Ali as Muhammad's successor.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263740", "title": "Mykel Shannon Jenkins", "text": "Mykel Shannon Jenkins\n\nMykel Shannon Jenkins (born July 3, 1969) is an American actor, perhaps best known as the winner of the first season of the SOAPnet reality television series \"I Wanna Be a Soap Star\".\n\nHis prize for winning the contest was a 13-week-contract on \"General Hospital\" as Officer Byron Murphy, though he was dropped to recurring after the contract was over. Jenkins exited the soap when his character was shot and killed. His final appearance was on July 22, 2005.\n\nHe began appearing on \"The Bold and the Beautiful\" on November 21, 2007, again playing the police officer, Charlie Baker.\n\nIn 2010, he co-starred with Scott Adkins in the direct-to-video martial arts film \"\".\n\nJenkins graduated from Loyola University in New Orleans, Louisiana.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263741", "title": "Archbishop of Mount Sinai and Raithu", "text": "Archbishop of Mount Sinai and Raithu\n\nThe following is a list of Orthodox Archbishops of Mount Sinai and Raithu (). The Church of Sinai is an autonomous (given that the Archbishop, and abbot of the monastery, is elected by the assembly of the monks (Brotherhood of Sinai) but is ordained by the Greek Orthodox Patriarch of Jerusalem) body of the Orthodox Church of Jerusalem:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263750", "title": "Center City, Philadelphia", "text": "Center City, Philadelphia\n\nCenter City includes the central business district and central neighborhoods of Philadelphia, in the U.S. state of Pennsylvania. It comprises the area that made up the City of Philadelphia prior to the Act of Consolidation, 1854 which extended the city borders to be coterminous with Philadelphia County. Greater Center City has grown into the second-most densely populated downtown area in the United States, after Midtown Manhattan in New York City, with an estimated 173,284 residents in 2010.\n\nCenter City is bounded by South Street to the south, the Delaware River to the east, the Schuylkill River to the west, and Vine Street to the north. This means that Center City occupies the boundaries of the city before it was made coterminous with Philadelphia County in 1854. The Center City District, which has special powers of taxation, has a complicated, irregularly shaped boundary that includes much but not all of this area, and also extends beyond it. The Philadelphia Police Department patrols three districts located within Center City – the 6th, 9th, 3rd and 17th districts.\n\nAmong Center City's neighborhoods and districts are Penn's Landing, Old City, Society Hill, South Street, Washington Square West, Market East, Chinatown, Logan Square, the Museum District (located along the Benjamin Franklin Parkway), Rittenhouse Square, Fitler Square, the Avenue of the Arts (South Broad Street), and Jewelers' Row.\n\nCenter City is home to most of Philadelphia's tallest buildings, including Philadelphia's City Hall, the second tallest masonry building in the world and until 1987 the tallest in Philadelphia, as well as the tallest building in the world for seven years. In March 1987, One Liberty Place broke the gentlemen's agreement not to exceed the height of the statue of William Penn atop City Hall. Upon the completion of One Liberty Place, no Philadelphia major-league sports team won a world championship for the next two decades, a phenomenon known as the \"Curse of Billy Penn.\" In an effort to reverse the curse, a 3-foot statue of Penn was affixed to the top of the Comcast Center upon its completion as the city's new tallest building in 2007. On October 29, 2008, the Philadelphia Phillies won the 2008 World Series, ending the \"curse\"\n\nSeven other skyscrapers now exceed the height of Penn's statue, including One Liberty Place's little sister, Two Liberty Place. The Comcast Center, which was completed in 2007, became the tallest building in Pennsylvania, 30 feet taller than One Liberty Place. In 2018, the Comcast Technology Center opened, which is now the tallest building in Philadelphia, the eighth-tallest building in the Western Hemisphere, and the tallest in the Western Hemisphere outside of New York or Chicago. 1441 Chestnut, which is currently under construction, is also slated to be taller than City Hall. The first publicly accessible vantage point higher than City Hall opened at One Liberty Observation Deck on the 57th floor of One Liberty Place in 2015.\n\nOther Center City skyscrapers include the BNY Mellon Center and the Three Logan Square, which houses a traffic camera used by the Philadelphia branch of the Westwood One MetroNetworks traffic service.\n\nAcross the street from City Hall is the Masonic Temple, the headquarters of the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania, a legacy of the Founding Fathers and signers of the Declaration of Independence, many of whom were Freemasons; such luminaries include George Washington and Benjamin Franklin.\n\nWhile Philadelphia's population declined, Center City's rose 10% between 1990 and 2000.\n\nIn 2007, the city designated the area bound by 11th Street, Broad Street, Chestnut Street and Pine Street as the Gayborhood.\n\n\nSunoco has its headquarters in the BNY Mellon Center. Cigna has its corporate headquarters in Two Liberty Place. Aramark is headquartered in Center City. Comcast is headquartered in the Comcast Center. The law firm Cozen O'Connor has its headquarters in Center City. Kogan Page has its United States offices in Center City.\n\nLincoln National Corporation moved its headquarters from Indiana to Philadelphia in 1999. In Philadelphia Lincoln was headquartered in the West Tower of Centre Square in Center City. In 2007 the company moved 400 employees, including its top executives, to Radnor Township from Philadelphia.\n\nThe Philadelphia Fire Department operates 5 Fire Stations in the Center City area :\n\n\nThe Federal Bureau of Prisons Northeast Region Office is in the U.S. Custom House, a part of the Independence National Historical Park, in Old City, Center City.\n\nThe William J. Green Jr. Federal Building houses the Federal Bureau of Investigation Philadelphia Field Office.\n\nThe Consulate-General of Italy in Philadelphia is located in the 1026 Public Ledger Building at 150 South Independence Mall West. The Consulate-General of Panama in Philadelphia is located in Suite 1 at 124 Chestnut Street. The Consulate-General of Israel in Philadelphia is located on the 18th Floor at 1880 John F. Kennedy Boulevard. The Consulate of Mexico in Philadelphia is located in Suite 310 of the Bourse Building off of Independence Mall.\n\nThe Consulate-General of the Dominican Republic in Philadelphia was located in Suite 216 in the Lafayette Building at 437 Chestnut Street. It closed on November 7, 2005.\n\nResidents are within the School District of Philadelphia.\n\nFrom the 1940s to the opening of what is now known as the Greenfield School in 1954, many residents attended public schools in other areas and private schools due to the low number of public schools in Center City.\n\nIn 2005, to prevent the flight of middle-class families, the school district and the Center City District, an economic development agency, started a program that promoted public schools in Center City (including Rittenhouse Square and Society Hill) and adjacent areas in Fairmount, Northern Liberties, and South Philadelphia.\n\nK-8 schools that have attendance boundaries in Center City and areas around Center City include:\n\nNeighborhood high schools for Center City and the Center City area, located outside of Center City, include:\n\nOther high schools include:\n\nCombined middle and high schools include:\n\nCharter schools not operated by the School District of Philadelphia include:\n\nThe Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Philadelphia operates the following Roman Catholic parochial schools in the Center City area :\n\nOther private schools in the Center City area include:\n\nThe Free Library of Philadelphia operates the Parkway Central Library at 1901 Vine Street, the Independence Branch at 18 South 7th Street, the Philadelphia City Institute on the first floor and lower level of an apartment complex at 1905 Locust Street, and the Library for the Blind and Physically Handicapped at 919 Walnut Street.\n\nMiddle States Association of Colleges and Schools is headquartered in Center City.\n\n\nThere is a 500,000+ sq ft underground pedestrian concourse that connects many of the center city Septa stations to businesses and office buildings. Primarily running under Market Street and Broad Street, the concourse spans east to west from 8th street to 18th street and north to south from John F. Kennedy Boulevard to Spruce Street.\n\n\nAmtrak's primary Philadelphia station, 30th Street Station, is located immediately west of Center City, just across the Schuylkill River. SEPTA Regional Rail trains, New Jersey Transit Atlantic City Line trains, Market-Frankford Line trains, and subway-surface line trolleys also service 30th Street Station, and both Megabus and BoltBus stop on streets adjacent to the station.\n\nThe Center City Residents' Association, originally formed in 1947 to prevent Rittenhouse Square from being turned into a parking lot, is a primary advocate for quality of life issues in Center City. Other community organizations of this type include Logan Square Neighborhood Association, Society Hill Civic Association, South of South Street Neighborhood Association, Washington Square West Civic Association, and the Queen Village Neighbors Association.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263753", "title": "Borate mineral", "text": "Borate mineral\n\nThe borate minerals are minerals which contain a borate anion group. The borate (BO) units may be polymerised similar to the SiO unit of the silicate mineral class. This results in BO, BO, BO anions as well as more complex structures which include hydroxide or halogen anions. The [B(O,OH)] anion exists as well.\n\nMany borate minerals, such as borax, colemanite, and ulexite, are salts: soft, readily soluble, and found in evaporite contexts. However, some, such as boracite, are hard and resistant to weathering, more similar to the silicates.\n\nThere are over 100 different borate minerals. Borate minerals include:\n\nIMA-CNMNC proposes a new hierarchical scheme (Mills et al., 2009). This list uses it to modify the Classification of Nickel–Strunz (mindat.org, 10 ed, pending publication).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263756", "title": "Centro de Investigación y Docencia Económicas", "text": "Centro de Investigación y Docencia Económicas\n\nThe Centro de Investigación y Docencia Económicas (\"Center for Research and Teaching in Economics\"; CIDE) is a Mexican center of research and higher education, specialized in the fields of social sciences, with an international-grade level of excellence. It is financed with public resources. It is considered one of Mexico's top think tanks.\n\nThe admission process is one of the hardest of Mexico and Latin America with admission rates around the 0.19 and 0.23% for bachelor's degrees.\n\nThe main campus is located in the Santa Fe hills of Mexico City, with another campus in the city of Aguascalientes in the north-central region of Mexico.\n\nCIDE has six academic divisions: Economics, Public Administration, International Studies, Political Studies, Legal Studies, and History.\n\nThe center's organizational structure reflects its pluralistic roots and its orientation towards promoting leadership and innovation. This flexibility allows faculty and alumni to pursue both individual interests and institutional priorities related to CIDE's three core functions: teaching, research, and outreach to the public and decision makers.\n\nThe diverse faculty at CIDE form a research community. Investigative work combines scientific rigor with social relevance; it aims to address the challenges Mexico faces. The academic staff is both Mexican and foreign and the majority are registered with the National System of Researchers.\n\nCIDE currently offers five undergraduate programs \n\nFive full-time masters programs \n\nTwo half time masters programs \n\nTwo PhD programs in \n\nDistinguished former/current residents/professors/researchers of CIDE include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2263757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263757", "title": "Absaroka–Beartooth Wilderness", "text": "Absaroka–Beartooth Wilderness\n\nAbsaroka–Beartooth Wilderness was created from existing National Forest lands in 1978 and is located in Montana and Wyoming, United States. The wilderness is partly in Gallatin, Custer and Shoshone National Forests and is composed of . The wilderness encompasses two distinct mountain ranges, namely the Beartooth and Absaroka ranges. These ranges are completely distinct geologically speaking with the Absarokas composed primarily of volcanic (or extrusive) and metamorphic rock, while the Beartooths are made up almost entirely of granitic rocks. The Absarokas are noted for their dark and craggy appearance, lush and heavily forested valleys and abundant wildlife. The highest peak in the range, located in Wyoming, is Francs Peak at . The Beartooths are more alpine with huge treeless plateaus and the highest peak in the state of Montana (Granite Peak ). The wilderness contains 30 peaks over . The wilderness is an integral part of the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem and borders Yellowstone National Park.\n\nWilderness areas do not allow motorized or mechanical equipment including bicycles. Although camping and fishing are allowed with proper permit, no roads or buildings are constructed and there is also no logging or mining, in compliance with the 1964 Wilderness Act. Wilderness areas within National Forests and Bureau of Land Management areas also allow hunting in season.\n\nThere are of trails in the wilderness, hundreds of lakes, a few dozen streams and a similar number of small glaciers can be found in the wilderness. The forests are dominated by various species of spruce, fir and pine while in the Beartooth Mountains, due to the altitude, tundra conditions often prevail. The Beartooths have the largest unbroken area of land in excess of in altitude in the U.S. outside of Alaska. Animals found in the wilderness include bald eagles and yellowstone cutthroat trout and the threatened grizzly bear and lynx as well as the gray wolf.\n\nAccess to the wilderness is difficult but can be achieved via the Beartooth Highway US 212 from Red Lodge, Montana. There are also some forest access roads from the west off of US 89 south from Livingston, Montana.\nThe Absaroka–Beartooth Wilderness is full of beautiful landscapes. Below are some of the highlights:\n\n\nRegretfully, many visitors to the wilderness area are ill-prepared for hiking through wilderness areas. \"Beartooth Panic\" often comes to people who like the idea of wilderness exposure, but are unprepared for the lack of Cell site and Wifi. Many people give up and expect helicopters to be sent out to them to pick them up and take them back to their cars. Others become disoriented, and helpless, when their Global Positioning System, cell phones and laptops don't work. Many carry maps and a compass, but don't know how to use them. \"Traditionally, wilderness has been used by those individuals willing to test the very substance of their body and soul. In the wilderness, humans are still at the mercy of natural forces. If you do not have innate survival skills, combined with the right training, you can be eaten by a bear or die in a storm. These risks were understood and accepted in the past. But that spirit seems foreign to a new breed of \"outdoorsmen\" who embrace the appearance but not the substance of adventure.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263782", "title": "Deceneus", "text": "Deceneus\n\nDeceneus (or \"Dicineus\", \"Dekaineos\") refers, in \"The Origin and Deeds of the Goths\" (\"Getica\") by Jordanes, to:\n"}
{"id": "2263786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263786", "title": "Epitaph (Necrophagist album)", "text": "Epitaph (Necrophagist album)\n\nEpitaph is the second studio album by German death metal band Necrophagist released by Relapse Records on August 3, 2004. Unlike on \"Onset of Putrefaction\", guitarist and vocalist Muhammed Suiçmez recorded the album alongside a full band instead of recording it by himself. Guitarist Christian Münzner, who later departed from the band and joined Obscura, wrote half of the leads as well as several basslines on the album.\n\nAll songs written by Muhammed Suiçmez except where noted.\n\nNecrophagist\n\nAdditional personnel\n"}
{"id": "2263789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263789", "title": "George Wilberforce Kakoma", "text": "George Wilberforce Kakoma\n\nGeorge Wilberforce Kakoma (27 July 1923 – 8 April 2012) was a Ugandan musician who wrote and composed \"Oh Uganda, Land of Beauty\", Uganda's national anthem.\n\nKakoma was born during the 1920s in what is now the southern part of Uganda's Masaka District. He graduated from the Trinity College of Music and Durham University.\n\nPrior to Uganda's independence, three sub-committees were established to deal with Uganda’s national symbols. The sub-committee for the creation of a national anthem encouraged Ugandans to submit their proposals.\n\nIn July 1962, the committee chose Kakoma's composition. It had taken him a day to compose the music and writer the lyrics for \"Oh Uganda, Land of Beauty\".\n\nKakoma worked as a music teacher in the Masaka District.\n\nKakoma died on 8 April 2012 in Kampala's Kololo suburb, aged 89. He had been ill since February 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263791", "title": "Sentence-final particle", "text": "Sentence-final particle\n\nSentence-final particles, including modal particles, interactional particles, etc., are minimal lexemes (words) that occur at the end of a sentence and that do not carry referential meaning, but may relate to linguistic modality, register or other pragmatic effects. Sentence-final particles are common in Chinese, including particles such as Mandarin \"le\" 了, \"ne\" 呢, \"ba\" 吧, \"ou\" 哦, \"a\" 啊, \"la\" 啦, \"ya\" 呀, and \"ma\" 嗎/吗, and Cantonese \"lo\" 囉 and \"ge\" 嘅. These particles act as qualifiers of the clause or sentence they end. Sentence-final particles are also present in Japanese and many East Asian languages, such as Thai, and especially in languages that have undergone heavy Sino-Tibetan influence, such as the Monguor languages.\n\nYuen Ren Chao has described sentence-final particles as \"phrase suffixes\": just as a word suffix is in construction with the word preceding it, a sentence-final particle or phrase suffix is \"in construction with a preceding phrase or sentence, though phonetically closely attached to the syllable immediately preceding it\". According to Chao, the sentence-final particle is phonetically close to the last word before it, but syntactically it is equidistant from every word in the whole predicate.\n\nWhile sentence-final particles usually do not carry meaning themselves or denote anything explicit, they may be derived from words that do carry meaning when they occur in other contexts and serve different functions.\n\nAll of the sentence-final particles of Standard Chinese are unstressed and, unlike most syllables in the language, do not carry tone.\n\n\nA major use of sentence-final particles in Mandarin Chinese specifically is thought to be as a signal of the speaker's attitude, the intended force of the statement to which the particle is attached, and \"how the utterance is to be taken by the hearer.\" For example, the addition of a particle may soften the tone of a question that might sound presumptuous or inappropriate without the particle. As such, sentence-final particles in this sense often perform an interpersonal function, rather than a grammatical one. Nevertheless, there are cases in which sentence-final particles do perform grammatical functions, such as Mandarin \"ma\" 嗎/吗, the \"question particle,\" which changes the grammatical mood of a sentence to interrogative. Likewise, even though sentence-final particles can usually be omitted from a sentence without making the sentence ungrammatical or changing its meaning, some particles do contain information critical to the interpretation of an utterance's meaning, such as Mandarin \"le\" 了.\n\nIn Japanese, there are many sentence-final particles that are used in formal as well as colloquial speech. Some examples include:\n\n\nEnglish also has some words and phrases that act somewhat like sentence final particles, but primarily only in colloquial speech. However, there are others, called tag questions, which are less colloquial and can be used for any situation. All are generally discourse particles rather than modal particles. For example:\nAll but the first are tag questions. Notice how when the main sentence is affirmative, the tag question is negative, and vice versa.\n\nIn the same way that certain words and phrases are used as sentence final particles above in the section on English (as discourse particles), some Spanish words and phrases can be used this way as well; once again, these are usually called tag questions. For example:\nNote that in Spanish, the question marks are placed around the tag question, and not around the entire sentence (although English only uses the single final question mark, it is implied that the entire sentence, and not just the tag, is the question).\n\n"}
{"id": "2263800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263800", "title": "V. N. Janaki", "text": "V. N. Janaki\n\nJanaki Ramachandran (30 November 192319 May 1996, née Vaikom Narayani), commonly known as V. N. Janaki, was an Indian politician and activist of Tamil Nadu. She was the third wife of the actor and politician M. G. Ramachandran.\n\nShe was the 4th Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu for 24 days from 7 January 1988, when her cabinet and the state assembly were collectively dissolved by the Government of India due to failures relating to law and order.\n\nJanaki was born in the town of Vaikom in Kottayam district of Travancore into a family with ties to both Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Her father, Rajagopal Iyer, was a Tamil Brahmin hailing from Thanjavur in Tamil Nadu, and was the brother of Papanasam Sivan, the musician and composer. Her mother, Narayani Amma, belonged to Vaikom and was of a Keralite matrilineal caste. Janaki married twice. Her first husband was Ganapathy Bhat whom she married in 1939. The couple had one son called Surendran. Later, in 1963, she married the Tamil cinema actor M. G. Ramachandran, with whom she had no children.\n\nJanaki became a moderately successful actress in the late 1940s. She starred in more than 25 movies including \"Mohini\" (1948), \"Raja Mukthi\", \"Velaikaari\", \"Aiyiram Thalaivangiya Aboorva Chintamani\", \"Devaki\" and \"Marudhanaattu Ilavarasi\". Many of her hits were in films where her future husband, Ramachandran, played the lead role, and she played either the heroine (\"Marudhanaattu Ilavarasi\") or a major supporting role (\"Raja Mukthi,\" \"Velaikkaari\" etc.). The first film where the two acted together was \"Mohini\" (1948), which was the first real blockbuster for both of them.\n\nSoon, Janaki and Ramachandran fell in love. Ramachandran had been married twice before this but both his wives had died of illnesses by this time. Janaki and her husband Ganapathi had never become reconciled to each other, although they still remained married. Ganapathi and Janaki both knew that they could not live with each other, both of them had built other lives for themselves, and their son Surendran was then over 20 years old. They petitioned for divorce on grounds of adultery, and secured a divorce which ended their marriage of more than 20 years.\n\nJanaki and Ramachandran married in 1963. Janaki, who had been relegated to less significant film roles as she aged, withdrew from films and devoted herself to domesticity. The couple did not have any children. Ramachandran (who had no children by any of his wives) is alleged to have taken an affectionate interest in the well-being of his step-son Surendran.\n\n\"This is a partial filmography. You can expand it.\"\n\nRamachandran swept the elections of 1977 and took office as Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu. He remained Chief Minister from that time until the day of his death in 1987. Janaki was at his side throughout, but only as a devoted wife. She played no role and took little interest in his political activities or in matters of state. Ramachandran groomed other young leaders of his party for political responsibility, including the actress Jayalalithaa, with whom he was said to share a great professional rapport.\n\nNevertheless, when Ramachandran died in 1987, Janaki was asked by party members to take his place. In deference to their wishes, Janaki Ramachandran (as she was now known) became Chief minister in January 1988, shortly after her husband's death. Her government lasted only 24 days, the shortest in the history of Tamil Nadu. She took his place as the Leader of the AIADMK party, which subsequently split into two factions.\n\nHer ministry went for a sensitive vote of confidence of the Eighth Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly in January 1988. This was because AIADMK coalition with 194 MLAs had split into 3 factions, with one faction supporting Jayalalitha (30 MLA) and other supporting the new CM Janaki (101). The clCongress party, under the directive of its national chief and then PM Rajiv Gandhi, had decided to completely vote neutral. The opposition severely demanded secret singular voting in the assembly, on the day of vote. But the speaker, rejected this. The speaker was a Janaki supporter, and had already disqualified 30 MLA of Jayalalitha faction, and also 15 MLA of DMK from MLA office, the previous day. He had also decreed that the cabinet must garner support of MLAs, who were physically present in the assembly at the time of vote. So instead of proving majority in 234 with just 101, Janaki had to prove majority in 198, which was easily possible. So, the speaker silenced the assembly, and called for vote. The DMK and AIADMK MLAs clashed within assembly, and many were injured bloodily, including the speaker. Without alternative, the speaker requested the CM to protect the house, and as a last measure, the CM called police into the house to quell the riot. Police and goons (disguised as police) clashed with each other. In midst of all these problems, the speaker announced unilaterally that the cabinet had won motion of confidence, and then ordered everyone to leave the hall, and he himself left the hall.\n\nBut the Central Government under Rajiv Gandhi, refused to accept this motion of confidence, and used Article 356 of the Constitution of India to dismiss her government in February the same year. Her party was subsequently defeated in the next elections that were held in 1989. She quit politics after the unification of the two factions of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam. As a result, Janaki remains the only chief minister on record without ever winning a legislative election.\n\nShe died of a cardiac arrest on 19 May 1996. She was buried beside her residence at MGR Garden in Ramapuram, Chennai, Tamil Nadu.\n\nJanaki Ramachandran gifted her property in Avvai Shanmugham Salai (Lloyds Road) in honour of her husband to the AIADMK. It subsequently became the headquarters of the party in 1986. She also willed her property in Arcot Street in T.Nagar to set up the Dr. MGR Memorial House in 1988. She was the founder chairman of The Satya Educational & Charitable Society managing many free educational institutions in Chennai. She gave property worth many million of dollars for the establishment of educational and charitable institutions in Tamil Nadu. She was also instrumental in setting up the Janaki Ramachandran Educational & Charitable Trust.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263803", "title": "Phosphate mineral", "text": "Phosphate mineral\n\nPhosphate minerals contain the tetrahedrally coordinated phosphate (PO) anion along sometimes with arsenate (AsO) and vanadate (VO) substitutions. Chlorine (Cl), fluorine (F), and hydroxide (OH) anions that also fit into the crystal structure.\n\nThe phosphate class of minerals is a large and diverse group, however, only a few species are relatively common.\n\nPhosphate rock has high concentration of phosphate minerals, most commonly of the apatite group. It is the major resource mined to produce phosphate fertilizers for the agriculture sector. Phosphate is also used in animal feed supplements, food preservatives, anti-corrosion agents, cosmetics, fungicides, ceramics, water treatment and metallurgy.\n\nThe largest use of minerals mined for their phosphate content is the production of fertilizer.\n\nPhosphate minerals are often used for control of rust and prevention of corrosion on ferrous materials applied with electrochemical conversion coatings.\n\nPhosphate minerals include:\n\nIMA-CNMNC proposes a new hierarchical scheme (Mills et al., 2009). This list uses it to modify the classification of Nickel–Strunz (mindat.org, 10 ed, pending publication).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263811", "title": "Mercedes-Benz 7G-Tronic transmission", "text": "Mercedes-Benz 7G-Tronic transmission\n\n7G-Tronic is Mercedes-Benz's trademark name for its seven-speed automatic transmission, starting off with the W7A 700 and W7A 400 (Wandler-7-Gang-Automatik bis 700 oder 400 Nm Eingangsdrehmoment; converter-7-gear-automatic with 516 or 295 ft·lb maximum input torque; type 722.9) as core models.\n\nThis fifth-generation transmission was the first seven-speed automatic transmission ever used on a production passenger vehicle. It initially debuted in Autumn 2003 on five different eight-cylinder models: the E500, S 430, S 500, CL 500, and SL 500. It also soon became available on many six-cylinder models. Turbocharged V12 engines, four cylinder applications and commercial vehicles continued to use the older Mercedes-Benz 5G-Tronic transmission for many years.\n\nThe company claims that the 7G-Tronic is more fuel efficient and has shorter acceleration times and quicker intermediate sprints than the outgoing 5-speed automatic transmission. It has two reverse gear ratios. .\n\nThe transmission can skip gears when downshifting. It also has a lockup torque converter on all seven gears, allowing better transmission of torque for improved acceleration. The transmission's casing is made of magnesium alloy, a first for the industry, to save weight. The 7G-Tronic transmission is built at the Mercedes-Benz Stuttgart-Untertuerkheim plant in Germany, the site of Daimler-Benz's original production facility.\n\nAbout 65 percent of Mercedes-Benz C-Class sedans, wagons, and sport coupes are purchased with automatic transmissions (with that figure rising). However, about 88 percent of Mercedes-Benz E-Class sedans and wagons are purchased with automatic transmissions, and automatic transmissions are standard on the Mercedes-Benz S-Class.\n\nThe transmission is currently available on the SsangYong's vehicles like Rexton, and Korando Turismo (in South Korea)/Turismo (in UK). In July 2009, Mercedes-Benz announced they are working on a new nine-speed automatic.\n\n7 forward gears plus 2 reverse out of 11 main components: 2 simple planetary gear sets, 1 Ravigneaux planetary gear set (considered as 2), 4 brakes and 3 clutches. It uses no bands nor sprag clutches. Turn out the design as advanced compared to its predecessor but less economical compared to its competitors.\n\nIn normal condition it sequentially shift gears, but if required can skip some gears, that are: 7 to 5, 6 to 2, 5 to 3 and 3 to 1.\n\nFor 6 or 8 cylinder gasoline engines and if Sport mode is not selected, transmission will start in 2nd gear. Also, if it is a Off road vehicle, if Low range is selected, will start in 2nd gear too.\n\nIf emergency mode is activated, like when occurs an electric fault or another critical fault, 6th gear default is selected (all solenoids off).\n\nIt is a fully electronic controlled unit. Torque converter lock up can operate in all 7 forward gears.\n\nThe TCT transmission is essentially the 7G-Tronic automatic transmission including \"Torque Converter Technology\".\n\nSporty, performance-oriented version with the same gear ratios. First used in 2005 Mercedes-Benz SLK 55 AMG.\n\nIn 2007, 7G-Tronic transmission with AMG SPEEDSHIFT was also called '7G-Tronic Sport'.\n\nMercedes-AMG developed the 7-speed MCT \"Multi Clutch Technology\" planetary semi-automatic transmission.\n\nThe MCT transmission is essentially the 7G-Tronic automatic transmission without a torque converter. Instead of a torque converter, it uses a compact wet startup clutch to launch the car from a stop, and also supports computer-controlled double declutching. The MCT (Multi-Clutch Technology) acronym refers to a planetary (automatic) transmission’s multiple clutches and bands for each gear.\n\nThe MCT is fitted with four drive modes: “C” (Comfort), “S” (Sport), “S+” (Sport plus) and “M” (Manual) and boasts 100 millisecond shifts in \"M\" and \"S+\" modes. MCT-equipped cars are also fitted with the new AMG DRIVE UNIT with innovative Race Start function. The AMG DRIVE UNIT is the central control unit for the AMG SPEEDSHIFT MCT 7-speed sports transmission and all driving dynamics functions. The driver can change gears either using the selector lever, or by nudging the steering-wheel shift paddles. The new Race start Function is a launch control system which enables the driver to call on maximum acceleration, while ensuring optimum traction of the driven wheels.\n\nIt is available on the 2009 SL 63 AMG and E63 AMG, and will be used for the 2011 S 63 AMG and CL 63 AMG, and the 2012 CLS 63 AMG and C 63 AMG. \n\nCompulsory on the 2014 AMG CLS63 and E63 models, as well as their \"S--Model\" variants. Improved with the release of the 2015 model year, by decreasing lag time between shifts.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263812", "title": "Trauma plate", "text": "Trauma plate\n\nA trauma plate, also known as a ballistic plate or ballistic panel, is a protective plate that is an add-on component or insert to a ballistic vest. Its primary purpose is to absorb the ballistic impact of projectiles received and reduce ballistic trauma and blunt trauma transferred to the wearer of the vest. As such, trauma plates supplement the ballistic protection of the section of the vest that they are positioned in. \nTrauma plates are most commonly found in the front, rear, and side pockets of a ballistic vest or plate carrier and positioned around the chest, back, and sides of the abdomen respectively. Vests like Dragon Skin do not contain traditional trauma plates, and may use a different form of protection like miniature trauma plates akin to scale armor. \n\nTrauma plates can be found in a variety of sizes and shapes. The most common shapes are rectangle, rounded rectangle, and irregular hexagon, as well as cuts widely known as SAPI, which bear visual similarities to the SAPI plate.\n\nIn concealed vests (vests worn under a shirt), the trauma plates are most commonly 5″ × 8″, with variants including 5″ × 7″, 5″ × 9″, 6″ × 8″, and 6″ × 9″. Thickness (depth) varies based on material and application but rarely exceed 1/4″. \n\nIn tactical vests, worn as outerwear, the trauma plates are most commonly 10″ × 12″ with some variation depending on the vest. Thickness varies, depending on material and application, but rarely approaches 1/2\". For larger plates intended to cover the torso, cuts can reach 15x16\".\n\nIn specialized/military-grade vests, a considerable portion of the vest is made up of rigid, trauma-plate like inserts. Since they are an essential part of the vest, they are NOT typically considered the same as trauma plates or pads and are typically referred to as inserts, much like the aramid ballistic inserts found in concealed, duty, and tactical vests. SAPI vests are an example of this type of vest. In most SAPI based vests/carriers, the outer vest is made out of and lined with aramid material made to carry multiple ballistic inserts, typically made out of ceramics. These inserts are shaped to fit the carrier and have sizes that vary depending on the size and shape of the vest. \n\nMost trauma plates or pads are made of a combination of materials. The following categories denote the primary material used in different plate packages.\n\nCeramic plates or ceramic armor, typically composed of boron carbide or similar material, are common place in military applications. The advantages of ceramic armor is that they are not only lighter than metals, but much harder as well, which enables them to deform most penetrators. \n\nCeramic material defeats projectiles by shattering it into pieces, decreasing the penetration ability of projectile. Compared to steel or titanium, ceramic plates have inferior multi-hit resistance due to its somewhat brittle nature, although there are workarounds. As such, they are vulnerable to projectiles which hit in a tight grouping, as these create a stress concentration on the plate and shatter the section of plate targeted.\n\nMost metal trauma plates are made primarily of steel or titanium, although aluminum and various alloys also exist. Metal trauma plates can be used for reducing blunt trauma due to the conductive traits of the material. Unfortunately, due to its lack of deformation, shock is still transmitted through the plate, moreso than ceramic. \n\nGiven the nature of the material used, there is a risk for ricochet and spall. To address this, metal plates are oftentimes encased in anti-spall lining designed to trap projectile fragments and spalling. Additionally, plate carriers and bullet resistant vests assist in trapping these fragments. \n\nMunitions above 3100 fps have been known to penetrate NIJ Level III steel armors, most notably the 5.56 M193 round.\n\nOften called soft trauma plates, these are flexible plates that typically do little to reduce trauma. They are typically composed of layers of aramid fabrics, similar to, if not the same as the material found in the vest. They may also include thin sheets of metal or ultra high molecular weight polyethylene (UHMWPE) to add stiffness and some trauma protection. \n\nMulti-layered sheets/plates of ultra high molecular weight polyethylene (UHMWPE) can provide an added ballistic enhancement equal to or even greater than metal plates with less weight. With these, there is the cost of less trauma reduction and the improbable but possible risk of fracture. The layered sheets that exist in each plate, are sometimes separated by high density foam, which provides some compression to aid in dissipating the kinetic energy of an impact. Though this is more often found in cheap polycarbonate plates that provide some trauma reduction, but no ballistic value.\n\nPolymer\n\nSeveral companies have created viscoelastic polymer compounds capable of a very high degree of energy/force dissipation as a result of shock, vibration, or g-force side loading. The material, and padding made from it, derives its superior energy adsorbing behavior from the unique physical properties of the viscoelastic compound.  The bulk of the compound is composed of a high molecular weight, highly viscous, highly elastic polymer fluid.  The fluid is then compounded with rheological modifiers and other fillers to control the physical and rheological properties of the finished padding compound.  Zoombang is one example of a polymer compound trauma pad (ZB-7 Trauma Pad).\n\nAs a potential material for future trauma plates and anti-ballistic fabrics, carbon nanotube and nanocomposite materials offer strength to weight ratios that are potentially superior to other materials. For further information on these materials as applied to ballistics, please visit the section on ballistic vest nanomaterials in ballistics. There are plates made of nanomaterials currently available in commercial products.\n\nSpecial threat plates (STP), also known as multi-threat, special purpose, rifle, and special application plates, are plates that have a notably higher ballistic rating (NIJ standard) than the vest. There is no standard for materials or ballistics for these plates, though most meet the NIJ Standard for armor type III. Some plates are made of a combination of materials, like ceramic on plastic, plastic on metal, etc. \n\nSome manufacturers may use these labels as marketing rather than enhanced protection. \n\nCommon special threats are NIJ Level III+, NIJ Level IIIA+/NIJ Level IIIB. NIJ Level III+ is especially noted for its use by steel body armor manufacturers Level III+ usually in this context indicates resistance/protection against high velocity threats of 3,100 feet per second or higher, as steel armor is notoriously vulnerable to faster threats. NIJ Level IIIA+ indicates a defensive capacity exceeding Level IIIA.\n\nMuch lesser known threat defenses like NIJ Level IV A, the A indicating Aramid in the NIJ system, were made against threats such as the THV munition. \n\n"}
{"id": "2263816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263816", "title": "List of Orthodox Archbishops of Finland", "text": "List of Orthodox Archbishops of Finland\n\nList of Greek Orthodox Archbishops of Finland, primates of the Finnish Orthodox Church:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263823", "title": "Miljenko Smoje", "text": "Miljenko Smoje\n\nMiljenko Smoje (14 February 1923 – 25 October 1995) was a Croatian writer and journalist.\n\nSmoje was born in Split, at the time in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, in a family of poor labourers. The neighbourhood where he grew up was known for its support for anarchism, socialism and other left-wing ideologies. This would later influence Smoje's work and help him develop a strong dislike of authorities and the establishment.\n\nSmoje finished high school in Split in 1941, but his further education was interrupted by the Axis invasion of Yugoslavia and Split being occupied by Italy. Smoje joined Communist Party of Yugoslavia and took part in local resistance movement. However, due to his rebellious nature, he was expelled from the Party, but he survived that, as well as brief incarceration by Italian authorities. After the end of the war he finished college and worked as a teacher. In 1950 he took a job as a reporter for the Split daily newspaper \"Slobodna Dalmacija\", where he would write until his formal retirement in 1979.\n\nAs a reporter, Smoje developed a specific style that included use of Čakavština dialect in his articles. His specialty was articles about ordinary people and through the decades he travelled over Dalmatia chronicling many aspects of its life. Later he used many of those experiences as the basis for his short stories, plays and novels. He liked to inject all of his work with a strong dose of humour, laced with elements of every-day tragedy. All this helped Smoje become one of the most respected and more popular writers of former Yugoslavia, as well as arguably the greatest humourist of Croatian literature.\n\nIt was the medium of television which helped Smoje become famous. In 1970 he wrote the script for \"Naše malo misto\" (also known as \"Malo misto\"), a mini-series chronicling three decades of life in small Dalmatian coastal town. The series featured many memorable characters that would later become part of local culture. Smoje also showed ability to use broad comedy as a way to criticise aspects of Communism. The series nevertheless became an instant hit and grew in popularity through the decades.\n\nIn 1980 Smoje tried to repeat the success with \"Velo misto\", a more ambitious project chronicling life in Split between 1910 and 1947. \"Velo misto\" became very popular and developed cult status of its own.\n\nAfter his retirement Smoje continued to write for \"Slobodna Dalmacija\" and \"Nedjeljna Dalmacija\" weekly. In the late 1980s and early 1990s he opposed Croatian nationalism and for that reason he was snubbed by the media controlled by Franjo Tuđman and his ruling Croatian Democratic Union. When Tuđman's supporter Miroslav Kutle took over \"Slobodna Dalmacija\" in 1993, Smoje began to write for the satirical weekly \"Feral Tribune\".\n\nSemi-official snub of Miljenko Smoje ended in late 1990s when his shows were allowed to be aired on Croatian Radiotelevision.\n\nSmoje was married twice. He is buried in Žrnovnica near Split.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263826", "title": "Tomb of the Unknown Revolutionary War Soldier", "text": "Tomb of the Unknown Revolutionary War Soldier\n\nThe Tomb of the Unknown Revolutionary War Soldier, also known as the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier of the American Revolution, is a war memorial located within Washington Square in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The memorial honors the thousands of soldiers who died during the American Revolutionary War, many of whom were buried in mass graves in the square. The tomb and Washington Square are part of Independence National Historical Park.\n\nThe memorial was first conceived in 1954 by the Washington Square Planning Committee, and was completed in 1957. The monument was designed by architect G. Edwin Brumbaugh and includes an eternal flame and a bronze cast of Jean Antoine Houdon's statue of George Washington as the monument's centerpiece. The tomb includes remains which were disinterred, after archeological examination, from beneath the square. The remains are that of a soldier, but it is uncertain if he was Colonial or British. An unknown number of bodies were buried beneath the square and the surrounding area. Remains are still occasionally found during construction and maintenance projects.\n\nEngraved in the side of the tomb are these words:\n\n\nThe plaque on the tomb reads:\n\n"}
{"id": "2263827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263827", "title": "Dylex", "text": "Dylex\n\nDylex Limited was one of Canada's largest retailers during the 1970s and 1980s, where it operated a number of specialty retail stores, including women's wear, men's wear, and family stores, including BiWay, a large, and now defunct, Canadian discount chain.\n\nDylex was formed in 1966 as a holding company for the purchase of Tip Top Tailors through a partnership between Jimmy Kay, a decorated World War II veteran and businessman, and Wilfrid Posluns, a former stockbroker. The company name was an acronym for \"Damn Your Lousy Excuses.\" It absorbed Posluns' company and Kay's Fairweather stores. From the start the company maintained retail and manufacturing operations. After a year, the company's sales at its meanswear stores had reached $37 million.\n\nIn 1984, Dylex purchased 50% of NBO Stores Inc., a 28-store chain of men's clothing discounters founded in Yonkers in 1971 as National Brands Outlet by Leon Atkind. In 1988, it purchased the remaining 50% from Atkind for $25 million () in cash. At the time, the company was generating $100 million-a-year in sales.\n\nThe company's strategy was to purchase clothing stores but to leave the running of the company in its current management's hands.\n\nThe company later purchased Harry Rosen Inc. from its founder, Harry Rosen. Rosen later bought back his company in 1992. The company recorded explosive growth during the 1970s and 1980s operating 17 chains with more than 2,700 stores in the United States and Canada at its peak. In 1980, its annual sales reached $650 million.\n\nAt one point, the company had five business divisions: BiWay, a major discount basic apparel and general merchandise, Thriftys (denim and other jeanswear and accessories), Tip Top Tailors (mid-priced men's suits and sportwear), and its women's wear group, made up of Fairweather (women's career and casual clothing), Big Steel Man (aka Big Steel and in its final days Steel), and Braemar (women's tailored clothing and accessories). The company operated 638 stores across Canada.\n\nIn 1999, Dylex created a new chain offering off-price brand name clothing and accessories named Labels, in an attempt to have a chain competing with the current leader of that category, Winners. This new venture was not successful, and by the end of 2000, the chain was purchased by the TJX Companies Inc (operators of the TJ Maxx and TK Maxx stores in the United States and Europe), and then folded into their Winners/HomeSense chain.\n\nBiWay Stores accounted for 54% of fiscal 2000 revenues; Thriftys, 14%; Fairweather, 12%; Tip Top Tailors, 12%; Braemar, 7%; and Labels, 1%.\n\nCo-founders Posluns and Kay eventually developed bad blood and the company's expansion into the United States, which was funded by heavily leveraging its purchases, proved to be the beginning of the end for the company. Kay left the business in the early 1990s. In 1995, the company sought bankruptcy protection. In 2000, the company sold its Thriftys, Braemar and National Logistics divisions to American Eagle Outfitters. The remainder of the company were sold off by 2001.\n\nBiWay was acquired by Hardof Wolf Group, a shell company for the United States-based McCrory Stores, a dollar store chain owned by Meshulam Riklis. The Fairweather chain was purchased by a private Canadian investment consortium. McCrory had announced its intentions to convert all of the BiWay stores into a dollar store chain to be named Dollar Zone, named after their chain of dollar stores in the United States.\n\nThese plans did not go through however, and in August 2001, all BiWay stores, save for a few Toronto area locations, were shuttered for good and Hardof Wolf left with all of the employees' money. The courts finally forced Hardof Wolf to pay back some of the money it owed to the employees. This court case set precedent in Ontario bankruptcy case law. It was later reported that Riklis had drained money from Dylex to be used in other Riklis owned companies.\nIn December 2018, it was announced that the BiWay chain would be revived as \"BiWay $10 Store \" beginning with a new 7,500 square foot location in August 2020 in North York.\n"}
{"id": "2263830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263830", "title": "Merthyr Town F.C.", "text": "Merthyr Town F.C.\n\nMerthyr Town Football Club () is a Welsh semi-professional football club based in Merthyr Tydfil, currently playing in the , in the seventh tier of the English football league system.\n\nMerthyr Town were founded in 1909 and played in the Football League from 1920 to 1930, but the club folded in 1934 and were replaced by new formed Merthyr Tydfil F.C. in 1945. In 2010, the club reformed again after Merthyr Tydfil F.C. was liquidated. Both versions of the club played at Penydarren Park.\n\nIn 1909, Merthyr Town joined the second division of the Southern League, which despite being primarily an English league, contained several other Welsh clubs, notably Cardiff City, Newport County and Swansea Town. After finishing third in 1911–12 the club were promoted to the first division, though they were relegated back to the second division in 1913–14. The Southern League did not operate during the First World War, and when it resumed for the 1919–20 season Merthyr were placed back in the top division.\n\nIn the summer of 1920 the Football League expanded with the creation of a new Third Division, which was made up entirely of the First Division of the Southern League from the previous season. Despite having finished second bottom in season before, usually a relegation place, Merthyr became a new member of the Football League.\n\nIn their first season in the Football League, the club had a much better season and finished 8th. This, however, proved to be their most successful league season, and it was followed by a gradual decline: 11th in 1921–2 and 17th in 1922–3. The 1923–4 season saw a slight improvement in league form as they finished 13th, but the major news was their appearance in the final of the Welsh Cup, though they lost 1–0 to Wrexham in a replay after a 2–2 draw.\n\nFrom then on the club declined further, and finished bottom of the Third Division in 1924–5. Although they finished 14th in 1925–6, in the following seasons the club finished 17th, 21st, 20th and then bottom again, and were eventually voted out of the Football League in 1930. They were replaced by the ill-fated Thames. During their penultimate season in the Football League the club had their best season in the FA Cup, getting past the first round for the only time, before losing to Watford in the second round.\n\nThe club dropped back into the Southern League, but lasted only four seasons, before ceasing to play in 1934.\n\nIn 2010, Merthyr Tydfil F.C. of the Southern Football League Premier Division were liquidated. The club was reformed under the name of Merthyr Town and consequently were required to drop three divisions to begin the 2010–11 season in the Western Football League Division One. The club was also forced to switch grounds, and left Penydarren Park to take Rhiw Dda’r, the home of Taff's Well A.F.C. as their new home ground. In their first season they won Division One and were promoted to the Western League Premier Division.\n\nThe newly promoted club once again called Penydarren Park home. Their first match back at their spiritual ground was a 1–9 defeat to Welsh Premier League side Llanelli in a pre-season friendly in July 2011. However Merthyr went on to secure a second consecutive championship and with it promotion to the Southern League.\n\nOn 6 April 2015, Merthyr Town were promoted back to the Southern League Premier Division only five years after being expelled, following a 9–0 home win against Bishops Cleeve. The club is fully owned by the supporters' trust.\n\nDuring the 2017-18 season, the Martyrs came into financial difficulties due to mismanagement of the clubs finances. This led to a team of youth players and office staff making up a squad of eleven to take on Chesham United in the league. The Martyrs lost 13-1 to Chesham United, which helped raise funds within a JustGiving page that was set up by the group of supporters at the football club.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263842", "title": "Allgemeine Zeitung", "text": "Allgemeine Zeitung\n\nThe Allgemeine Zeitung was the leading political daily journal in Germany in the first part of the 19th century. It has been widely recognised as the first world-class German journal and a symbol of the German press abroad.\n\nThe \"Allgemeine Zeitung\" ( ‘general newspaper’) was founded in 1798 by Johann Friedrich Cotta in Tübingen. The works of Schiller and Goethe were published in its pages.\n\nAfter 1803, the journal was published in Stuttgart. From 1807 to 1882, it was published in Augsburg.\n\nHeinrich Heine was a major contributor to the journal. From 1831 he wrote reports on music and painting and became the newspaper's Parisian correspondent. He wrote articles on the French way of life but also about Louis-Philippe and German politics.\n\nIn 1882, the \"Allgemeine Zeitung\" moved to Munich. The journal stopped publishing on July 29, 1929.\n\nThe tradition of this major journal is still maintained by the \"Augsburger Allgemeine Zeitung\", \"Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung\" and the \"Allgemeine Zeitung\" edited in Mainz.\n\nIn German:\n"}
{"id": "2263843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263843", "title": "Beauty and the Beast (talk show)", "text": "Beauty and the Beast (talk show)\n\nBeauty and the Beast is an Australian panel television show that has appeared in numerous versions since the early days of Australian television. The first version began in 1963 on the Seven Network with host Eric Baume as the \"Beast\". Baume was later replaced by presenters including John Laws, Stuart Wagstaff, Noel Ferrier and Rex Mossop. The original \"Beauties\" included Maggie Tabberer, Dita Cobb, Ena Harwood (mother of Andrew Harwood), Pat Firman, Patricia Lovell, Hazel Phillips, Noeline Brown and Freda Lesslie.\n\nViewers write in asking for advice about personal problems such as family squabbles, questions of social etiquette, marriage problems, contraception, work or career problems. The host of the program - usually an intentionally brusque and outspoken older male - presents each viewer question in turn and a panel of female celebrities provide their advice on the problem and the panel discusses the problem and the advice given offering opinions and views.\n\nIn 1982, the format was revived, with two rival versions, both carrying the same title, appearing on different networks. Network Ten's version had John Laws back as host, later replaced by Clive Robertson, whilst the Seven Network version was hosted by Derryn Hinch.\n\nA more recent version of the program has run on both Network Ten and Foxtel, hosted by radio broadcaster Stan Zemanek and then by radio broadcaster Doug Mulray. The series ran from 1996–2002, before returning to W exclusively in 2005 after a 3-year hiatus with Stan Zemanek. Zemanek died on 12 July 2007, thus ending the series.\n\nIt was also an afternoon New Zealand television series made in TVNZ in Dunedin (1976–85), hosted by Selwyn Toogood with four women panelists, including Shona McFarlane and Catherine Tizard (later Governor-General). A show with a similar concept called \"How's Life?\" aired in the early 2000s in New Zealand hosted by Charlotte Dawson.\n\nNotable female panel members in the Network Ten and Foxtel version have included Tracey Bevan, Ann-Maree Biggar, Diana Bowring, Ita Buttrose, Shelley Sykes, Barbara Rogers, Carlotta, Jo Casamento, Angela Catterns, Dita Cobb, Beccy Cole, Alyssa-Jane Cook, Louise Crawford, Clio Cresswell, Elaine Davies, Charlotte Dawson, Delilah, Penne Dennison, Anne Deveson, Miranda Devine, Claire Dunne, Maureen Duval, Susie Elelman, Diana 'Bubbles' Fisher, Lisa Forrest, Rachel Friend, Antonella Gambotto-Burke, Chelsea Gibb, Cleo Glyde, Tottie Goldsmith, Libbi Gorr, Belinda Green, Johanna Griggs, Donna Gubbay, Rose Hancock-Porteous, Pauline Hanson, Ena Harwood, Louisa Hatfield, Fiona Horne, Christa Hughes, Frida Irving, Shauna Jensen, Leigh Johnson, Gretel Killeen, Renae Leith, Rebecca Le Tourneau, Jeanne Little, Rachael Lloyd, Jackie Loeb, Prue MacSween, Gillian Minervini, Carol Moores, Julia Morris, Jan Murray (with whom Stan had an ongoing battle), Ali Mutch, Indira Naidoo, Judy Nunn, Lisa Oldfield, Cindy Pan, Jacqueline Pascarl, Carmelle Pavann, Dr Patricia Petersen, Diana Rodger, Kristine Stanley, Maggie Tabberer, Heather Turland, Rowena Wallace, Lisa Wilkinson, Sally Williams, Rebecca Wilson, Adriana Xenides, and Tania Zaetta.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263844", "title": "Entomological Society of Stettin", "text": "Entomological Society of Stettin\n\nThe Entomological Society of Stettin () or Stettin Entomological Society, based in Stettin (Szczecin), was one of the leading entomological societies of the 19th century. Most German entomologists were members, as were many from England, Sweden, Italy, France, and Spain. The society had very large collections and a very comprehensive library.\n\nThis first German entomological society was formed in 1839. Following the death at age 39 of its first and short-lived president, Dr. Wilhelm Ludwig Ewald Schmidt, Carl August Dohrn (1806-1892), a lifelong resident of the then Prussian town of Stettin, became its second president. He was elected at an anniversary meeting on 5 November 1843. Having acted as secretary of the society for the previous four years, he continued in this role, and that of president, for the next forty.\n\nUnder Dohrn's presidency the society became as important as the entomological societies of London and Paris. As in these countries, the society reflected the growing professionalism during the second half of the 19th century, necessitating specialisation. Specialisation was accompanied by a rise in technical standards of argument and presentation and a tendency toward the use of learned jargon. There were differences, however, as German universities and academies became increasingly advanced relative to those of England and France, organising seminars (with their published proceedings) and encouraging early publication of, for instance, the Ph.D. dissertation, the academic \"program\" and the technical monograph. Also, after about 1850, any entomologist who wished to keep abreast of developments in his subject had to be able to read at least English, French, German, Italian, and, in some cases, Swedish. Latin and Greek were indispensable. Far fewer entomologists in England and France were multilingual than in Germany. The Irish entomologist Alexander Henry Haliday, an early member of the society, was a notable exception.\n\nStettin (Szczecin) is close to Lund in Sweden, home of the great Swedish dipterist Johann Wilhelm Zetterstedt, and also to Mesritz, where Hermann Loew, the greatest dipterist of the century, was to become Director of the Royal \"Realschule\". Both were members of the society.\n\nThe society's journal was called the \"Stettiner Entomologische Zeitung\", abbreviated \"Stett. Ent. Zeit.\"\n\n\"The Stettin Entomological Society has continued in full activity, and the number of entomologists, in other countries as well as Germany (six of them members of this Society), who have been admitted as ordinary members during the past year, shows that their proceeding have aroused a greater zeal for scientific enquiry and mutual communication. Some of the visits to England of their Secretary, Dr. Schaum, have appeared in their volume of proceedings; as the articles on the determination of questionable Linnean species of Coleoptera, for which the collection of Linnaeus, in the possession of the Linnean Society of London, has afforded the materials. Besides the various interesting communications contained in this volume, (among which may be particularized Suffrian's criticisms on Schönherr's generic arrangement of the Curculionidae, and an elaborate investigation, by the veteran Gravenhorst, of the affinities of the Brachyeltrous genus Quedius, the society have published a second volume of their yearly journal (the Linnaea) containing, beside the usual portion of matter concerning Coleoptera, Lepidoptera and Diptera, from the pens of Suffrian, Zeller and Loew, a considerable contribution to the knowledge of the almost microscopical and obscure Hymenopterous family Mymaridae by Prof. Förster; as a supplement to which may be mentioned Loew's discovery of the hitherto unknown economy and prior states of these insects, communicated in the ' Entomologisches Zeitung'.\"\n\n\"The flourishing state of the society during all this time is the best evidence of the power of Dohrn to attract and keep together the bulk of the entomologists of Germany and many of other countries, and his influence remained great. Coleoptera occupied his own attention but he had a regard for insects of other orders if only for the reason that it brought him into communication with the lovers of them, for he had a sympathy not only with the entomologists as such but also as cultivators of a sense of pleasure and enjoyment in the varied realm of nature, and he was able, as a rule, to give far more information on cognate matters than he received\"\n\n\nVarious other obituaries of C.A. Dohrn are listed by Reinhard Gaedike and Eckhard K. Groll in \"Biographien der Entomologen der Welt\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263846", "title": "List of museums in Singapore", "text": "List of museums in Singapore\n\nThis is a list of museums in Singapore:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263849", "title": "Clipping (morphology)", "text": "Clipping (morphology)\n\nIn linguistics, clipping is the word formation process which consists in the reduction of a word to one of its parts (Marchand: 1969). Clipping is also known as \"truncation\" or \"shortening\".\n\nAccording to Marchand (1969), clippings are not coined as words belonging to the standard vocabulary of a language. They originate as terms of a special group like schools, army, police, the medical profession, etc., in the intimacy of a milieu where a hint is sufficient to indicate the whole. For example, \"exam\"(ination), \"math\"(ematics), and \"lab\"(oratory) originated in school slang; \"spec\"(ulation) and \"tick\"(et = credit) in stock-exchange slang; and \"vet\"(eran) and \"cap\"(tain) in army slang. Clipped forms can pass into common usage when they are widely useful, becoming part of standard English, which most speakers would agree has happened with \"math\"/\"maths\", \"lab\", \"exam\", \"phone\" (from \"telephone\"), \"fridge\" (from \"refrigerator\"), and various others. When their usefulness is limited to narrower contexts, such as with \"tick\" in stock-exchange slang, they remain outside standard register. Many, such as \"mani\" and \"pedi\" for \"manicure\" and \"pedicure\" or \"mic\"/\"mike\" for \"microphone\", occupy a middle ground in which their appropriate register is a subjective judgment, but succeeding decades tend to see them become more widely used.\n\nClipping is different from back-formation – back-formation may change the part of speech or the word's meaning, whereas clipping creates shortened words from longer words, but does \"not\" change the part of speech or the meaning of the word.\n\nAccording to (1986), clipping mainly consists of the following types:\n\nIn a final clipping, the most common type in English, the beginning of the prototype is retained. The unclipped original may be either a simple or a composite. Examples include \"ad\" (advertisement), \"cable\" (cablegram), \"doc\" (doctor), \"exam\" (examination), \"fax\" (facsimile), \"gas\" (gasoline), \"gym\" (gymnastics, gymnasium), \"memo\" (memorandum), \"mutt\" (muttonhead), \"pub\" (public house), \"pop\" (popular music), and \"clit\" (clitoris). An example of apocope in Israeli Hebrew is the word \"lehit\", which derives from להתראות \"lehitraot\", meaning \"see you, goodbye\".\n\nInitial (or fore) clipping retains the final part of the word. Examples: \"bot\" (robot), \"chute\" (parachute), \"roach\" (cockroach), \"gator\" (alligator), \"phone\" (telephone), \"pike\" (turnpike), \"varsity\" (university), \"net\" (Internet).\n\nFinal and initial clipping may be combined and result in curtailed words with the middle part of the prototype retained, which is the stressed syllable. Examples: \"flu\" (influenza), \"frig\" or \"fridge\" (refrigerator), \"jams\" or \"jammies\" (pajamas/pyjamas), \"polly\" (apollinaris), \"rona\" (coronavirus), \"shrink\" (head-shrinker), \"tec\" (detective).\n\nWords with the middle part of the word left out are equally few. They may be further subdivided into two groups: (a) words with a final-clipped stem retaining the functional morpheme: \"maths\" (mathematics), \"specs\" (spectacles); (b) contractions due to a gradual process of elision under the influence of rhythm and context. Thus, \"fancy\" (fantasy), \"ma'am\" (madam), and fo'c'sle may be regarded as accelerated forms.\n\nClipped forms are also used in compounds. One part of the original compound most often remains intact. Examples are: \"cablegram\" (\"cable\" tele\"gram\"), \"op art\" (\"op\"tical \"art\"), \"org-man\" (\"org\"anization \"man\"), \"linocut\" (\"lino\"leum \"cut\"). Sometimes both halves of a compound are clipped as in \"navicert\" (\"navi\"gation \"cert\"ificate). In these cases it is difficult to know whether the resultant formation should be treated as a clipping or as a blend, for the border between the two types is not always clear. According to Bauer (1983), the easiest way to draw the distinction is to say that those forms which retain compound stress are clipped compounds, whereas those that take simple word stress are not. By this criterion \"bodbiz, Chicom, Comsymp, Intelsat, midcult, pro\"-\"am, photo op, sci-fi\", and \"sitcom\" are all compounds made of clippings.\n"}
{"id": "2263856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263856", "title": "Anns v Merton LBC", "text": "Anns v Merton LBC\n\nIn 1962 the local council of Merton approved building plans for the erection of a block of maisonettes. The approved plans showed the base wall and concrete foundations of the block to be ‘three feet or deeper to the approval of local authority [being Merton]’. The notice of approval said that the bylaws of the council required that notice should be given to the council both at the commencement of the work and when the foundations were ready to be covered by the rest of the building work. The council had the power to inspect the foundations and require any corrections necessary to bring the work into conformity with the bylaws, but was not under an obligation to do so.\n\nThe block of maisonettes was finished in 1962. The builder (who was also the owner) granted 999-year leases for the maisonettes, the last conveyance taking place in 1965. In 1970 structural movements occurred resulting in failure of the building comprising cracks in the wall, sloping of the floors and other defects. In 1972 the plaintiffs who were lessees of the maisonettes issued writs against the builder and the council.\n\nThe plaintiffs claimed that the damage was a consequence of the block having been built on inadequate foundations, there being a depth of two feet six inches only as against the three feet or deeper shown on the plans and required under the bylaws. The plaintiffs claimed damages in negligence against the council for approving the foundations and/or in failing to inspect the foundations.\n\nAt the hearing at first instance the plaintiffs' case failed on the basis that it was statute barred as the cause of action arose on the first sale of a maisonette by the owner, more than six years before an action was commenced. The Court of Appeal allowed the appeals on the basis that the cause of action arose when the damage was discovered or \"ought to have been\" discovered.\n\nThe Court found in favour of the tenants.\n\nThe Appeal was raised on two points:\n\nThe House of Lords unanimously decided that a duty of care did exist and that such a duty was not barred by a \"limitation of actions\" statute.\n\nThe leading judgment was delivered by Lord Wilberforce with whom all fellow Judges concurred. Lord Salmon delivered a speech within which he agreed in substance with Lord Wilberforce but contained a separate analysis of, in particular, the issue of duty of care.\n\nLord Wilberforce accepted what might be seen as the high point of the adoption of the statements of Lord Atkin in \"Donoghue v Stevenson\", the \"neighbour principle\". He says: -\n\n\"‘Through the trilogy of cases in this House, Donoghue v Stevenson, Hedley Byrne & Co Ltd v Heller & Partners Ltd and Home Office v Dorset Yacht Co Ltd, the position has now been reached that in order to establish that a duty of care arises in a particular situation, it is not necessary to bring the facts of that situation within those of previous situations in which a duty of care has been held to exist. Rather the question has to be approached in two stages. First one has to ask whether, as between the alleged wrongdoer and the person who has suffered damage there is a sufficient relationship of proximity or neighbourhood such that, in the reasonable contemplation of the former, carelessness on his part may be likely to cause damage to the latter, in which case a prima facie duty of care arises. Secondly, if the first question is answered affirmatively, it is necessary to consider whether there are any considerations which ought to negative, or to reduce or limit the scope of the duty or the class of person to whom it is owed or the damages to which a breach of it may give rise’\".\n\"Hedley Byrne v Heller\" was held as an example of a case in which there was a reduction in the scope of the duty of care.\n\nThe 'Anns Test' established here by Lord Wilberforce is a two-stage test.\n\nApplying that general statement and approach, Lord Wilberforce considered the particular position of the council as the administrator of the Public Health Act 1936 and its bylaws as to building made by the council under that Act. Lord Wilberforce summarised the position as being one where the council was administering an act-enabling local council, through building bylaws to supervise and control the operations of builders, particularly the supervision of the foundations of buildings because the foundation is covered up as the building proceeds. This is specifically recognised by a particular bylaw which required that the foundation of every building should be taken down to such a depth or be so designed and constructed as to safeguard the building against damage by swelling or shrinkage of the subsoil. Lord Wilberforce noted that the builder was required to notify the local authority before covering up the foundations so that the local authority had the right to inspect and to insist on correction.\n\nAs Lord Wilberforce notes, the issue with respect to the council is that it is discharging powers and duties as a matter of public and not private law. However, Lord Wilberforce notes that there is no doubt that private law duties arise over and above or alongside the public law functions.\n\nLord Wilberforce notes that almost every exercise of statutory power must inherently adversely affect the interests of private citizens but in many cases the powers can be carried out properly and without causing harm to parties likely to be affected.\n\nThe court needs to give consideration to the balance between efficiency and thrift; the local council was under no duty to inspect but they are under a duty to give proper consideration whether they should inspect or not, further that if the council does inspect, it must carry out that inspection exercising reasonable care. Lord Wilberforce had to consider a decision of the House of Lords in \"East Suffolk River Catchment Board v. Kent\" where it was argued a Statutory Authority failed in reasonable time to repair the breach of a drainage bank and damage was sustained by the plaintiffs land as a result. Lord Wilberforce says that case was decided on the basis of a different statute, subject to a different range of considerations but that it might be said that there was no real consideration of a general duty of care and that the content of any duty of care against the background of considerable flooding and other activity being undertaken by the defendant argued for a lower standard of care. If not the absence of a duty of care.\n\nLord Wilberforce had no difficulty saying that on that basis the duty of care existed was affirmed and was owed to the owners and occupiers of the houses. The owners or occupiers are not an endless indeterminate class of potential plaintiffs.\n\nThe nature of the duty of care must be closely related to the consideration of the statutory powers granted to the council and the exercise of due care in those powers.\n\nLord Wilberforce dismissed the limitation of actions issues quite quickly and held that a claim was not statute barred.\n\nOver the following years the Courts backed away from the \"Anns\" approach and instead decided on a more category-based reasoning. The test was finally put to rest with the case of \"Murphy v Brentwood DC\" [1991] 1 AC 398, [1990] 2 All ER 908. It has been suggested by academics that this turn-around was in reaction to the conservative political climate in the United Kingdom at the time.\n\nNevertheless, the Anns approach has inspired the development of tort law in many parts of the world. It has since been adopted by Canada in the case \"City of Kamloops v. Nielsen\" and later modified by \"Cooper v. Hobart\". The modified \"Anns\" test is largely used for establishing new duties of care.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263871", "title": "Paris–Tours", "text": "Paris–Tours\n\nParis–Tours is a French one-day classic cycling race held every October from the outskirts of Paris to the cathedral city of Tours. It is a predominantly flat course through the Chevreuse and Loire valleys; the highest point is 200 m, at Le Gault-du-Perche. It is known as a \"Sprinters' Classic\" because it frequently ends in a bunch sprint at the finish, in Tours. For several decades the race arrived on the 2.7 km long Avenue de Grammont, one of cycling's best-known finishing straits, particularly renowned among sprinters. Since 2011 the finish was moved to a different location because a new tram line was built on the Avenue de Grammont. \n\nParis–Tours was first run for amateurs in 1896, making it one of the oldest cycling races in the world. It was organised by the magazine \"Paris-Vélo\", which described that edition won by Eugène Prévost as, \"“A crazy, unheard of, unhoped for success”\". It was five years before the race was run again and a further five years (1906) before it became an annual event for professionals, with \"L'Auto\" as organiser. \"L’Auto\" ran the Tour de France (TDF) and Paris–Tours is still run by the Tour organiser, Amaury Sport Organisation.\n\nThe race was part of the UCI Road World Cup from 1989 to 2004, and the UCI ProTour from 2005 to 2007. Since 2008 it is part of the UCI Europe Tour.\n\nParis–Tours has had many route changes although the distance has remained about 250 km. The start was moved out of Paris in the early days, first to Versailles, then to at Saint-Arnoult-en-Yvelines. Since 2009, the route has started in the Department of Eure-et-Loir. A loop through Chinon was added between 1919 and 1926 to make the approach to Tours hilly lanes on the south bank of the Loire and the total distance 342 km. Sprinters continued to dominate and in 1959 the organisers added three ascents of the Alouette Hill. It made little difference.\n\nIn 1965 dérailleurs were banned and riders were limited to two gears. The race was won by Dutch first-year professional Gerben Karstens who chose 53/16 and 53/15, covering 246 km at a record 45.029km/h. The experiment was judged a failure when the 1966 race ended the same way as 1964.\n\nThe course was reversed and the route constantly changed between 1974 and 1987. It was sometimes known as the Grand Prix d'Automne and sometimes by the names of the start and finish towns. For many the event lost character as the race was run between Tours and Versailles (1974–75) Blois and Chaville (1976–77 and 1979–84), Blois to Autodrome de Montlhéry (1978) and Créteil to Chaville (1985–87). In 1988 the race reverted to its original Paris–Tours route.\n\nThe wind can often be hostile; in 1988 Peter Pieters averaged just 34kmh, slowest for 57 years. However, Paris–Tours becomes the fastest classic when the wind is behind the riders, Óscar Freire winning in 2010 at 47.730kmh. It gave him the Ruban Jaune or \"Yellow Riband\" for the fastest speed in a classic, in fact the Ruban Jaune has been awarded nine times (as of 2016) to riders winning Paris–Tours and posting the fastest time in a professional race. \n\nThe route for the 2018 edition of the race was changed radically with the race starting in Chartres and incorporating 12.5 kilometres' of unpaved gravel tracks inside the final 60 kilometres as the race winds it way around vineyards in the Tours area. Seven new punchy climbs were also included in the finale of the race which was reduced to a distance of 211 kilometres to compensate for the additional difficulties. \n\nThe 1921 edition had blizzards. Half the field abandoned in Chartres. The winner, Francis Pélissier, punctured late in the race; his hands frozen, he tore the tyre off the rim with his teeth. Riding on the rim, he caught Eugène Christophe and soloed to the finish. Rik Van Looy won the 1959 race, the first to feature the Alouette Hill. One of the best sprinters of his day, Van Looy dropped two others on the second ascent and won alone.\n\nThe record for the most victories is three, held by Gustave Danneels (1934, 1936, 1937), Paul Maye (1941, 1942, 1945), Guido Reybroeck (1964, 1966, 1968) and Erik Zabel (1994, 2003, 2005).\n\nEddy Merckx never won Paris–Tours; he could have triumphed in 1968 but handed victory to team mate Guido Reybrouck, pulling out of the sprint, to thank him for help earlier in the season. Later, Noël Vantyghem (winner of the 1972 edition) said \"Together with Eddy Merckx, I won all classics races that could be won. I won Paris-Tours, he the rest.\"\n\nErik Zabel took his first big victory at Paris–Tours in 1994. He won Paris–Tours again in 2003 and 2005. Jacky Durand, Andrea Tafi, Marc Wauters, Richard Virenque, Erik Dekker and Philippe Gilbert (two times) have all won solo or from a small group, denying sprinters a chance. Virenque had just returned from a drugs ban. He broke away with Durand shortly after the start and stayed away despite Durand's dropping back outside Tours.\n\nThe Autumn Double refers to Paris–Tours and the Giro di Lombardia, considered cycling's most important classics in Autumn, run within a week of each other in October. The races are different – Lombardia is for climbers – making the double difficult. Only four have achieved it in the same year: Belgians Philippe Thys in 1917 and Rik Van Looy in 1959, Dutchman Jo de Roo twice (1962–1963) and Belgian Philippe Gilbert in 2009.\n\n\"Riders in italics are still active\"\n\nIn 1917 and 1918 a race was held from Tours–Paris as well as Paris–Tours.\n\nThe winners of Tours–Paris were:\n\n"}
{"id": "2263873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263873", "title": "Ramesh Balsekar", "text": "Ramesh Balsekar\n\nRamesh S. Balsekar (25 May 1917 – 27 September 2009) was a disciple of the late Sri Nisargadatta Maharaj, a renowned Advaita master. From early childhood, Balsekar was drawn to Advaita, a nondual teaching, particularly the teachings of Ramana Maharshi and Wei Wu Wei. He wrote more than 20 books, was president of the Bank of India, and received guests daily in his home in Mumbai until shortly before his death.\n\nBalsekar taught from the tradition of Advaita Vedanta nondualism. His teaching begins with the idea of an ultimate Source, Brahman, from which creation arises. Once creation has arisen, the world and life operate mechanistically according to both Divine and natural laws. While people believe that they are actually doing things and making choices, free will is in fact an illusion. All that happens is caused by this one source, and the actual identity of this source is pure Consciousness, which is incapable of choosing or doing. This false identity which revolves around the idea that \"I am the body\" or \"I am the doer\" keeps one from seeing that one's actual identity is free Consciousness.\n\nLike other Vedanta teachers, Balsekar says that while creation and creator appear to be different and separate, that they are actually two sides of the same coin. He taught that life is a happening but there is no individual doer of life. Among his most notable students are Dorje Khandro, a former disciple of Chögyam Trungpa, and Roger Castillo.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263875", "title": "Ecphonesis", "text": "Ecphonesis\n\nEcphonesis () is an emotional, exclamatory phrase (exclamation) used in poetry, drama, or song. It is a rhetorical device that originated in ancient literature.\n\nA Latin example is \"O tempora! O mores!\" (\"Oh, the times! Oh, the morals!\"). A modern example is \"Young man!\" from the song YMCA by the Village People.\n\nEdgar Allan Poe used ecphonesis in “The Tell-Tale Heart:” \"Almighty God!--no, no! They heard!--they suspected!--they knew!--they were making a mockery of my horror!--this I thought, and this I think. But anything was better than this agony! Anything was more tolerable than this derision! I could bear those hypocritical smiles no longer! I felt that I must scream or die! and now--again!--hark! louder! louder! louder! louder! \"'Villains!' I shrieked, 'dissemble no more! I admit the deed!--tear up the planks! here, here!--It is the beating of his hideous heart!'\"Other examples of ecphonesis include when Homer Simpson said \"No! No-no-no-no-no-no! Well, yes.\" during \"The Simpsons\" episode \"Homer The Heretic,\" and when the Scarecrow said \"Oh joy! Rapture! I got a brain!\" in \"The Wizard of Oz.\"\n\nDonald Trump used the expressions \"Sad!\" and \"Wrong!\" without elaboration throughout his 2016 US presidential campaign.\n\nIn the Eastern Orthodox Church many prayers are recited silently by the priest who \"speaks to God face-to-face\" according to St. Symeon of Thessaloniki. However, the closing words of such prayers are usually chanted aloud, especially at the closing of an ectenia (litany), and those closing words are called an ecphonesis.\n\n\"Examples:\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2263878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263878", "title": "Desperados: Wanted Dead or Alive", "text": "Desperados: Wanted Dead or Alive\n\nDesperados: Wanted Dead or Alive is a real-time tactics video game developed by Spellbound Entertainment and published by Infogrames for Microsoft Windows.\n\nIn the game, the player controls up to six characters in a wild west setting. The protagonist is a worldly knife-fighter and gunslinger, John Cooper. He takes on a bounty to capture a notorious train-robber named \"El Diablo\". As Cooper sets off on his quest, he is aided by five other friends and they work together in a real-time, stealth-based structure very similar to that introduced in \"\", although all-out gunfights are still highly possible in the game.\n\nA sequel called \"\" was released in late March 2006. A second sequel, \"Helldorado\", (announced as expansion pack \"Desperados 2: Conspiracy\" but made into a full game) was released in mid-2007 in Germany. The English version was released in some regions in November 2007. A fourth entry, \"Desperados III\", is currently in development by Mimimi Productions and published by THQ Nordic. The game is set to be released for Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in 2020.\n\nSpellbound was developing a follow-up with more multiplayer and steampunk-oriented elements, \"Desperados Gangs\", but they shut down before they could find a publisher.\n\nThe game takes place in 1881. Many trains have been robbed the last few months by a mysterious and vicious bandit known as El Diablo. The railroad company Twinnings & Co has offered $15,000 to the one who can stop El Diablo. Bounty hunter John Cooper accepts the task, despite the objections of the bad-tempered and contemptuous US Marshal Jackson. However, he soon learns that the mission is not as simple as he thinks.\n\nCooper gathers a team of his old partners to aid him on his quest, consisting of African-American explosives fanatic Sam Williams; Doc McCoy, a physician, safecracker and sniper; and seductive gambler Kate O'Hara. His group successfully captures the notorious bandit leader Pablo Sanchez; but as they attempt to deliver him to the authorities, they run into (and thwart) an ambush set by El Diablo's bandits. This and Sanchez's explanations that El Diablo has an informant at Twinnings lets Cooper conclude that Smith, the company's co-director who hired him, is the snitch. Smith is assassinated before Cooper can get some answers, and chased by Jackson's posse for murder, he frees Sanchez from prison and enlists his help. Mia Yung, a young Chinese girl, also joins the team after Jackson's men kill her father at his outpost, vowing to avenge his death.\n\nEl Diablo finally turns out to be Marshal Jackson himself, who captures the group and imprisons them in his secret headquarters in a cave. They escape with the help of Mia's pet monkey, Mr. Leone. Cooper chases El Diablo up to his office and kills him in the subsequent gunfight.\n\nThe player can use a \"spyglass\" function on NPCs to see their fields of vision. Depending on the color of the cone, the player can see the mental state of the NPC. If the cone is green, it means the person is calm. Similarly, a yellow cone signifies suspicion, and a red means the NPC has spotted one of the characters. Some colors signify special status such as a pink cone, meaning the NPC has become attracted to Kate, or a black cone, meaning they have been hit by Mia's blowpipe.\n\nAnother special feature is the Quick Action, in which certain actions - from running to a certain place up to using a weapon against a pre-targeted enemy - can be 'pre-programmed' and called upon immediately when needed. For instance, by programming his revolver with Quick Action, Cooper can either concentrate all three shots that he can fire on a single opponent or divide them between up to three targets without having to move the mouse cursor around.\n\nPhysical copies of the game released in the United States featured an alternate cover art by famed comic book artist Glenn Fabry.\n\nAn add-on was announced, but it was never released.\n\nOn 5 July 2018, Desperados: Wanted Dead or Alive - Modernized, an update was released that improved compatibility with newer Windows 10 OS, as well as ports to MacOS and Linux, added foreign dubs that were previously missing from most digital versions, and its mission from the game's demo brought into the full game.\n\nRob Smolka reviewed the PC version of the game for \"Next Generation\", rating it four stars out of five, and stated that \"This gets an extra star just for being that rare Western-themes game that does justice to its source. Stick with it through the tough times, or you'll miss out on a great story and a stable full of action.\"\n\nThe game received \"generally favorable reviews\" according to the review aggregation website Metacritic.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263880", "title": "Burning Japan Live 1999", "text": "Burning Japan Live 1999\n\nBurning Japan Live 1999 is a live album by the Swedish melodic death metal band Arch Enemy. Originally released in Japan only, the album was re-released worldwide in 2000 due to fan demand.\n\n\"Burning Japan Live 1999\" received mixed reviews by critics. Metal Rules's El Cid criticized mainly the crowd writing that \"the Japanese crowd doesn't help much in this matter, no offense to anyone but it does seem like everyone is just sitting down listening and doing nothing else during a gig unless they are instructed to by Johan Liiva\" and stated that the album \"is very much like listening to a compilation of Arch Enemy songs rather than a live album.\" On the other hand, Paul Schwarz of \"Chronicles of Chaos\" wrote in his review that it \"has a clear yet characteristic sound which places it in the rare category of being a live album well worth owning. The musical elements have a live-sounding rawness while retaining the subtleties which are such essential parts of Arch Enemy's masterful mixture of pure riff and metal melodies\". He praised Liiva writing that his \"vocal delivery is both powerful and expressive - and similarly well-balanced and accentuated by the top-notch production.\" Schwarz finished writing about the crowd, \"the crowd are enthusiastically loud though their fanatical support is thankfully quite unintrusive to the enjoyment of the record.\"\n\nPersonnel credits adapted from \"Burning Bridges\" album liner notes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263889", "title": "Nonfinite verb", "text": "Nonfinite verb\n\nA nonfinite verb is a verb that is not finite. Nonfinite verbs cannot perform action as the root of an independent clause. Most nonfinite verbs found in English are infinitives, participles and gerunds. (They are sometimes called \"verbals\", but that term has traditionally applied only to participles and gerunds.) Additional nonfinite forms found in some other languages include converbs, gerundives and supines. \n\nNonfinite verbs typically are not inflected by grammatical tense, and they have little inflection for other grammatical categories. Formally, they lack the three grammatical features (mood, tense & voice) that are \"associated, independently or relatively, with...the act of predication.\" Generally, they also lack a subject dependent. One or more nonfinite verbs may be associated with a finite verb in a finite clause: the elements of a verb catena, or verb chain.\n\nBecause English lacks most inflectional morphology, the finite and the nonfinite forms of a verb may appear the same in a given context.\n\nThe following sentences each contain one finite verb (underlined) and multiple nonfinite verbs (in bold):\n\nIn the above sentences, \"been\", \"examined\" and \"done\" are past participles, \"want\", \"have\", \"refuse\", \"accept\" and \"get\" are infinitives, and \"coming\", \"running\" and \"trying\" are present participles (for alternative terminology, see the sections below).\n\nIn languages like English that have little inflectional morphology, certain finite and nonfinite forms of a given verb are often identical, e.g.\n\nDespite the fact that the verbs in bold have the same outward appearance, the first in each pair is finite and the second is nonfinite. To distinguish the finite and nonfinite uses, one has to consider the environments in which they appear. Finite verbs in English usually appear as the leftmost verb in a verb catena. For details of verb inflection in English, see English verbs.\n\nEnglish has three kinds of nonfinite verbs: \n\nEach of the nonfinite forms appears in a variety of environments.\n\nThe infinitive of a verb is considered the \"base\" form, listed in dictionaries. English infinitives appear in verb catenae if they are introduced by an auxiliary verb or by a certain limited class of main verbs. They are also often introduced by a main verb followed by the particle \"to\" (as illustrated in the examples below). Further, infinitives introduced by \"to\" can function as noun phrases or even as modifiers of nouns. The following table illustrates such environments:\n\nEnglish participles can be divided along two lines: according to aspect (progressive vs. perfect/perfective) and voice (active vs. passive). The following table illustrates the distinctions: \n\nParticiples appear in a variety of environments. They can appear in periphrastic verb catenae, when they help form the main predicate of a clause, as is illustrated with the trees below. Also, they can appear essentially as an adjective modifying a noun. The form of a given perfect or passive participle is strongly influenced by the status of the verb at hand. The perfect and the passive participles of strong verbs in Germanic languages are irregular (e.g. \"driven\") and must be learned for each verb. The perfect and passive participles of weak verbs, in contrast, are regular and are formed with the suffix \"-ed\" (e.g. \"fixed\", \"supported\", \"opened\").\n\nA gerund is a verb form that appears in positions that are usually reserved for nouns. In English, a gerund has the same form as a progressive active participle and so ends in \"-ing\". Gerunds typically appear as subject or object noun phrases or even as the object of a preposition:\n\nOften, distinguishing between a gerund and a progressive active participle is not easy in English, and there is no clear boundary between the two nonfinite verb forms.\n\nSome languages, including many Native American languages, form nonfinite constructions by using nominalized verbs. Others do not have any nonfinite verbs. Where most European and Asian languages use nonfinite verbs, Native American languages tend to use ordinary verb forms.\n\nThe nonfinite verb forms in Modern Greek are identical to the third person of the \"dependent\" (or aorist subjunctive) and it is also called the \"aorist infinitive\". It is used with the auxiliary verb έχω (to have) to form the perfect, the pluperfect and the future perfect tenses.\n\nFor an overview of dependency grammar structure in modern linguistic analysis, three example sentences are shown. The first sentence, \"The proposal has been intensively examined\", is described as follows.\n\nThe three verbs together form a chain, or verb catena (in purple), which functions as the predicate of the sentence. The finite verb \"has\" is inflected for person and number, tense, and mood: third person singular, present tense, indicative. The nonfinite verbs \"been\" and \"examined\" are, except for tense, neutral across such categories and are not inflected otherwise. The subject, \"proposal\", is a dependent of the finite verb \"has\", which is the root (highest word) in the verb catena. The nonfinite verbs lack a subject dependent.\n\nThe second sentence shows the following dependency structure:\n\nThe verb catena (in purple) contains four verbs (three of which are nonfinite) and the particle \"to\", which introduces the infinitive \"have\". Again, the one finite verb, \"did\", is the root of the entire verb catena and the subject, \"they\", is a dependent of the finite verb.\n\nThe third sentence has the following dependency structure:\n\nHere the verb catena contains three main verbs so there are three separate predicates in the verb catena. \n\nThe three examples show distinctions between finite and nonfinite verbs and the roles of these distinctions in sentence structure. For example, nonfinite verbs can be auxiliary verbs or main verbs and they appear as infinitives, participles, gerunds etc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263891", "title": "Two Shoes", "text": "Two Shoes\n\nTwo Shoes is the second studio album by Australian ska-jazz band The Cat Empire, which was issued on 19 April 2005. It is the follow-up to their successful self-titled first album. It was recorded in November to December 2004 in Havana, Cuba. It débuted at the top of the ARIA Albums Chart and is the band's first number 1 album.\n\nAustralian ska-jazz group, The Cat Empire, released their second album, \"Two Shoes\", on 19 April 2005. It was recorded in Havana, Cuba, at Egrem Studios, late in the previous year, with production by The Cat Empire, Felix Riebl (percussion and vocals) and United Kingdom-based producer, Jerry Boys. It débuted at the top of the ARIA Albums Chart and is the band's first number 1 album, the second being Rising With The Sun. The tracks were more Latin in flavour, with a higher proportion written by Harry James Angus (trumpet and vocals) than on their self-titled first album. The Australian version contains a hidden track, called \"1001\", which is coupled with the track, \"The Night That Never End\". Some later versions included songs that appeared on their debut album. The lead single, \"Sly\", was issued ahead of the album on 28 March, which reached the top 30. It appeared on EA Sports' \"FIFA 08\" soundtrack. \"The Car Song\", written by Angus, was released as the second single in July, and peaked in the top 50.\n\nAllmusic's Jeff Tamarkin wrote \"Skipping merrily from alt-rock crunch to hip-hop beats, landing on reggae/ska, Latin jazz, and points in between, \"Two Shoes\" is clever and brainy, danceable and absorbing\". \n\nAustralian version:\n\n\nBonus DVD\n\nIndica Records special edition:\n\nDisc 1\n\nDisc 2 - DVD\n\nThe album was also released under Indica Records in 2006. In 2007, a North American version was released for the US market through Velour Recordings. This variety added the track \"The Chariot (Havana Version)\", and the removed \"Miserere\" and the hidden track \"1001\". Also in 2007, \"Two Shoes\", was issued in some European countries by Universal Music Group. It added \"How to Explain?\", \"Hello\", \"The Lost Song\", \"Days Like These\", \"The Rhythm\" as the first 5 tracks of the album, removed \"Miserere\" (with \"The Chariot\" (Havana version) in its place), \"Saltwater\", \"The Night That Never End\" and \"1001\", and finally added \"The Wine Song\" as the last track. \n"}
{"id": "2263901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263901", "title": "Australian Gold Nugget", "text": "Australian Gold Nugget\n\nThe Australian Gold Nugget is a gold bullion coin minted by the Perth Mint. The coins have been minted in denominations of oz, oz, oz, oz, 1 oz, 2 oz, 10 oz, and 1 kg of 24 carat gold. They have legal tender status in Australia and are one of few legal tender bullion gold coins to change their design every year, another being the Chinese Gold Panda. This and their limited annual mintage may, unlike for many other bullion coins, raise their numismatic value over the value of gold used.\n\nThe Gold Nugget series was introduced in 1986 by Gold Corporation, a company wholly owned by the Government of Western Australia, more commonly known by its trading name The Perth Mint. This issue of coins had two unique features: a \"two-tone\" frosted design effect, and individual hard plastic encapsulation of each coin. These features were unusual for a standard bullion coin and gave the Nugget a unique market niche. \n\nFrom 1986 to 1989, the reverse of these coins pictured various Australian gold nuggets. With the 1989 proof edition, the design was changed to feature different kangaroos, a more world-recognised symbol of Australia. The coins are today sometimes referred to as \"gold kangaroos\".\n\nIn 1991, 2 oz, 10 oz, and 1 kilogram sizes were introduced. These were created with the intention of using economies of scale to keep premiums low, and are some of the largest gold coins ever minted. In 1992, the face values on these large coins were lowered to keep them proportional to the 1 oz coin. The reverse of these coins does not change annually like the lower denominations; the same \"red kangaroo\" design is used every year.\n\nIn October 2011, the Perth Mint created a one tonne gold coin, breaking the record for the biggest and most valuable gold coin, previously held by the Royal Canadian Mint, the Big Maple Leaf. The coin is approximately in diameter and thick. It features a red kangaroo on the front of the coin and a portrait of Queen Elizabeth II on the reverse. The face value of the coin is 1 million, but at the time of minting it was valued at over 53 million.\n\nThe Australian Gold Nugget coins should not be mistaken for the Australian Lunar Gold Bullion coins. Both coins are minted by Perth Mint and have .9999 purity, but Lunar coins use images of different animals from the Chinese calendar instead of the kangaroo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263904", "title": "Carbon footprint", "text": "Carbon footprint\n\nA carbon footprint is historically defined as the total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions caused by an individual, event, organization, or product, expressed as carbon dioxide equivalent. Greenhouse gases, including the carbon-containing gases carbon dioxide and methane, can be emitted through the burning of fossil fuels, land clearance and the production and consumption of food, manufactured goods, materials, wood, roads, buildings, transportation and other services.\n\nIn most cases, the total carbon footprint cannot be calculated exactly because of inadequate knowledge of and data about the complex interactions between contributing processes, including the influence of natural processes that store or release carbon dioxide. For this reason, Wright, Kemp, and Williams proposed the following definition of a carbon footprint:\n\nThe global average annual carbon footprint per person in the late 2010s was 0.7 tonnes COeq food, 1.1 tonnes from the home, 0.8 tonnes transport and 0.8 tonnes other.\n\nAn individual's, nation's, or organization's carbon footprint can be measured by undertaking a GHG emissions assessment, a life cycle assessment, or other calculative activities denoted as carbon accounting. Once the size of a carbon footprint is known, a strategy can be devised to reduce it, for example, by technological developments, energy efficiency improvements, better process and product management, changed Green Public or Private Procurement (GPP), carbon capture, consumption strategies, carbon offsetting and others.\n\nFor calculating personal carbon footprints, several free online carbon footprint calculators exist including a few supported by publicly available peer-reviewed data and calculations including the University of California, Berkeley's CoolClimate Network research consortium and CarbonStory. These websites ask you to answer more or less detailed questions about your diet, transportation choices, home size, shopping and recreational activities, usage of electricity, heating, and heavy appliances such as dryers and refrigerators, and so on. The website then estimates your carbon footprint based on your answers to these questions. A systematic literature review was conducted to objectively determine the best way to calculate individual/household carbon footprints. This review identified 13 calculation principles and subsequently used the same principles to evaluate the 15 most popular online carbon footprint calculators. A recent study's results by Carnegie Mellon's Christopher Weber found that the calculation of carbon footprints for products is often filled with large uncertainties. The variables of owning electronic goods such as the production, shipment, and previous technology used to make that product, can make it difficult to create an accurate carbon footprint. It is important to question, and address the accuracy of Carbon Footprint techniques, especially due to its overwhelming popularity.\n\nCalculating the carbon footprint of industry, product, or service is a complex task. One tool industry uses Life-cycle assessment (LCA), where carbon footprint may be one of many factors taken into consideration when assessing a product or service. The International Organization for Standardization has a standard called ISO 14040:2006 that has the framework for conducting an LCA study. ISO 14060 family of standards provides further sophisticated tools for quantifying, monitoring, reporting and validating or verifying of GHG emissions and removals. Another method is through the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, a set of standards for tracking GHG emissions.\n\nPredicting the carbon footprint of a process is also possible through estimations using the above standards. By using Emission intensities/Carbon intensities and the estimated annual use of fuel, chemical, or other inputs, the carbon footprint can be determined while a process is being planned/designed.\n\nThe concept and name of the carbon footprint derive from the ecological footprint concept, which was developed by William E. Rees and Mathis Wackernagel in the 1990s. While carbon footprints are usually reported in tons of emissions (CO-equivalent) per year, ecological footprints are usually reported in comparison to what the planet can renew. This assesses the number of \"earths\" that would be required if everyone on the planet consumed resources at the same level as the person calculating their ecological footprint. The carbon footprint is one part of the ecological footprint. The carbon part was popularized by a large campaign of BP in 2005. Carbon footprints are more focused than ecological footprints since they measure merely emissions of gases that cause climate change into the atmosphere.\n\nCarbon footprint is one of a family of footprint indicators, which also include water footprint and land footprint.\n\nDirect carbon emissions come from sources that are directly from the site that is producing a product. These emissions can also be referred to as scope 1 and scope 2 emissions.\n\nScope 1 emissions are emissions that are directly emitted from the site of the process or service. An example for industry would be the emissions related to burning a fuel on site. On the individual level, emissions from personal vehicles or gas burning stoves would fall under scope 1.\n\nScope 2 emissions are the other emissions related to purchased electricity, heat, and/or steam used on site. In the US, the EPA has broken down electricity emission factors by state.\n\nIn the UK, defra provides emission factors going back to 2002 covering scope 1, 2 and 3.\n\nDefra no longer provide international emission factors and refer visitors to the IEA who provide free highlights and paid for details covering Scope 1 and 2.\n\nIndirect carbon emissions are emissions from sources upstream or downstream from the process being studied, also known as scope 3 emissions.\n\nExamples of upstream, indirect carbon emissions may include:\n\n\nExamples of downstream, indirect carbon emissions may include:\n\n\nA July 2017 study published in \"Environmental Research Letters\" found that the most significant way individuals could mitigate their own carbon footprint is to have one less child (\"an average for developed countries of 58.6 tonnes CO-equivalent (tCOe) emission reductions per year\"), followed by living car-free (2.4 tonnes CO-equivalent per year), forgoing air travel (1.6 tonnes CO-equivalent per trans-Atlantic trip) and adopting a plant-based diet (0.8 tonnes CO-equivalent per year). The study also found that most government resources on climate change focus on actions that have a relatively modest effect on greenhouse gas emissions, and concludes that \"a US family who chooses to have one fewer child would provide the same level of emissions reductions as 684 teenagers who choose to adopt comprehensive recycling for the rest of their lives\".\n\nAnother option is to drive less. Walking, biking, carpooling, mass transportation and combining trips result in burning less fuel and releasing fewer emissions into the atmosphere.\n\nThe choice of diet is a major influence on a person's carbon footprint. Animal sources of protein (especially red meat), rice (typically produced in high methane-emitting paddies), foods transported long-distance or via fuel-inefficient transport (e.g., highly perishable produce flown long-distance) and heavily processed and packaged foods are among the major contributors to a high carbon diet. Scientists at the University of Chicago have estimated \"that the average American diet – which derives 28% of its calories from animal foods – is responsible for approximately one and a half more tonnes of greenhouse gasses – as equivalents – per person, per year than a fully plant-based, or vegan, diet.\" Their calculations suggest that even replacing one third of the animal protein in the average American's diet with plant protein (e.g., beans, grains) can reduce the diet's carbon footprint by half a tonne. Exchanging two-thirds of the animal protein with plant protein is roughly equivalent to switching from a Toyota Camry to a Prius. Finally, throwing food out not only adds its associated carbon emissions to a person or household's footprint, but it also adds the emissions of transporting the wasted food to the garbage dump and the emissions of food decomposition, mostly in the form of the highly potent greenhouse gas, methane.\n\nOptions to reduce the carbon footprint of humans include Reduce, Reuse, Recycle, Refuse. This can be done by using reusable items such as thermoses for daily coffee or plastic containers for water and other cold beverages rather than disposable ones. If that option isn't available, it is best to properly recycle the disposable items after use. When one household recycles at least half of their household waste, they can save 1.2 tons of carbon dioxide annually.\n\nAnother option for reducing the carbon footprint of humans is to use less air conditioning and heating in the home. By adding insulation to the walls and attic of one's home, and installing weather stripping, or caulking around doors and windows one can lower their heating costs more than 25 percent. Similarly, one can very inexpensively upgrade the \"insulation\" (clothing) worn by residents of the home. For example, it's estimated that wearing a base layer of long underwear with top and bottom, made from a lightweight, super-insulating fabric like microfleece, can conserve as much body heat as a full set of clothing, allowing a person to remain warm with the thermostat lowered by over 5 °C. These measures all help because they reduce the amount of energy needed to heat and cool the house. One can also turn down the heat while sleeping at night or away during the day, and keep temperatures moderate at all times. Setting the thermostat just 2 degrees lower in winter and higher in summer could save about 1 ton of carbon dioxide each year.\n\nThe carbon handprint movement emphasizes individual forms of carbon offsetting, like using more public transportation or planting trees in deforested regions, to reduce one's carbon footprint and increase their \"handprint.\" The Handprint is being used around the world to strengthen action towards the fulfillment of the UN Sustainable Development Goals.\n\nThe most powerful industrial climate actions are:\nrefrigerant management (90 billion tonnes of COe 2017–2050, since refrigerants have thousands of times the warming potential of CO); land-based wind turbines for electricity (85 billion); reduced food waste (71 billion); and restoring tropical forests by ending use of the land for other purposes (61 billion). They calculate benefits cumulatively to 2050, rather than annually, because industrial actions have long lead times.\n\nA product, service, or company's carbon footprint can be affected by several factors including, but not limited to:\n\n\nThese factors can also change with location or industry. However, there are some general steps that can be taken to reduce carbon footprint on a larger scale.\n\nIn 2016, the EIA reported that in the US electricity is responsible for roughly 37% of Carbon Dioxide emissions, making it a potential target for reductions. Possibly the cheapest way to do this is through energy efficiency improvements. The ACEEE reported that energy efficiency has the potential to save the US over 800 billion kWh per year, based on 2015 data. Some potential options to increase energy efficiency include, but are not limited to:\n\n\nCarbon Footprints from energy consumption can be reduced through the development of alternative energy projects, such as solar and wind energy, which are renewable resources.\n\nReforestation, the restocking of existing forests or woodlands that have previously been depleted, is an example of Carbon Offsetting, the counteracting of carbon dioxide emissions with an equivalent reduction of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. Carbon offsetting can reduce a companies overall carbon footprint by offering a carbon credit.\n\nA life cycle or supply chain carbon footprint study can provide useful data which will help the business to identify specific and critical areas for improvement. By calculating or predicting a process’ carbon footprint high emissions areas can be identified and steps can be taken to reduce in those areas.\n\nCarbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere, and the emissions of other GHGs, are often associated with the burning of fossil fuels, like natural gas, crude oil and coal. While this is harmful to the environment, carbon offsets can be purchased in an attempt to make up for these harmful effects.\n\nThe Kyoto Protocol defines legally binding targets and timetables for cutting the GHG emissions of industrialized countries that ratified the Kyoto Protocol. Accordingly, from an economic or market perspective, one has to distinguish between a \"mandatory market\" and a \"voluntary market\". Typical for both markets is the trade with emission certificates:\n\n\nTo reach the goals defined in the Kyoto Protocol, with the least economical costs, the following flexible mechanisms were introduced for the mandatory market:\n\n\nThe CDM and JI mechanisms requirements for projects which create a supply of emission reduction instruments, while Emissions Trading allows those instruments to be sold on international markets.\n\n\nThe CERs and ERUs can then be sold through Emissions Trading. The demand for the CERs and ERUs being traded is driven by:\n\n\nNations which have failed to deliver their Kyoto emissions reductions obligations can enter Emissions Trading to purchase CERs and ERUs to cover their treaty shortfalls. Nations and groups of nations can also create local emission reduction schemes which place mandatory carbon dioxide emission targets on entities within their national boundaries. If the rules of a scheme allow, the obligated entities may be able to cover all or some of any reduction shortfalls by purchasing CERs and ERUs through Emissions Trading. While local emissions reduction schemes have no status under the Kyoto Protocol itself, they play a prominent role in creating the demand for CERs and ERUs, stimulating Emissions Trading and setting a market price for emissions.\n\nA well-known mandatory local emissions trading scheme is the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS).\n\nNew changes are being made to the trading schemes. The EU Emissions Trading Scheme is set to make some new changes within the next year. The new changes will target the emissions produced by flight travel in and out of the European Union.\n\nOther nations are scheduled to start participating in Emissions Trading Schemes within the next few years. These nations include China, India and the United States.\n\nIn contrast to the strict rules set out for the mandatory market, the voluntary market provides companies with different options to acquire emissions reductions. A solution, comparable with those developed for the mandatory market, has been developed for the voluntary market, the Verified Emission Reductions (VER). This measure has the great advantage that the projects/activities are managed according to the quality standards set out for CDM/JI projects but the certificates provided are not registered by the governments of the host countries or the Executive Board of the UNO. As such, high quality VERs can be acquired at lower costs for the same project quality. However, at present VERs can not be used in mandatory market.\n\nThe voluntary market in North America is divided between members of the Chicago Climate Exchange and the Over The Counter (OTC) market. The Chicago Climate Exchange is a voluntary yet legally binding cap-and-trade emission scheme whereby members commit to the capped emission reductions and must purchase allowances from other members or offset excess emissions. The OTC market does not involve a legally binding scheme and a wide array of buyers from the public and private spheres, as well as special events that want to go carbon neutral. Being carbon neutral refers to achieving net zero carbon emissions by balancing a measured amount of carbon released with an equivalent amount sequestered or offset, or buying enough carbon credits to make up the difference.\n\nThere are project developers, wholesalers, brokers, and retailers, as well as carbon funds, in the voluntary market. Some businesses and nonprofits in the voluntary market encompass more than just one of the activities listed above. A report by Ecosystem Marketplace shows that carbon offset prices increase as it moves along the supply chain—from project developer to retailer.\n\nWhile some mandatory emission reduction schemes exclude forest projects, these projects flourish in the voluntary markets. A major criticism concerns the imprecise nature of GHG sequestration quantification methodologies for forestry projects. However, others note the community co-benefits that forestry projects foster.\nProject types in the voluntary market range from avoided deforestation, afforestation/reforestation, industrial gas sequestration, increased energy efficiency, fuel switching, methane capture from coal plants and livestock, and even renewable energy. Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) sold on the voluntary market are quite controversial due to additionality concerns. Industrial Gas projects receive criticism because such projects only apply to large industrial plants that already have high fixed costs. Siphoning off industrial gas for sequestration is considered picking the low hanging fruit; which is why credits generated from industrial gas projects are the cheapest in the voluntary market.\n\nThe size and activity of the voluntary carbon market are difficult to measure. The most comprehensive report on the voluntary carbon markets to date was released by Ecosystem Marketplace and New Carbon Finance in July 2007.\n\nÆON of Japan is firstly approved by the Japanese authority to indicate a carbon footprint on three private brand goods in October 2009.\n\nAccording to The World Bank, the global average carbon footprint in 2014 was 4.97 metric tons CO/cap. The EU average for 2007 was about 13.8 tons COe/cap, whereas for the U.S., Luxembourg and Australia it was over 25 tons COe/cap. In 2017, the average for the USA was about 20 metric tons COe.\n\nMobility (driving, flying & small amount from public transit), shelter (electricity, heating, construction) and food are the most important consumption categories determining the carbon footprint of a person. In the EU, the carbon footprint of mobility is evenly split between direct emissions (e.g. from driving private cars) and emissions embodied in purchased products related to mobility (air transport service, emissions occurring during the production of cars and during the extraction of fuel).\n\nThe carbon footprint of U.S. households is about 5 times greater than the global average. For most U.S. households the single most important action to reduce their carbon footprint is driving less or switching to a more efficient vehicle.\n\nThe following table compares, from peer-reviewed studies of full life cycle emissions and from various other studies, the carbon footprint of various forms of energy generation: nuclear, hydro, coal, gas, solar cell, peat and wind generation technology. (Studies dated 2006 and 2008)\n\nNote: 3.6 megajoules (MJ) = 1 kilowatt-hour (kW·h), thus 1g/MJ = 3.6g/kW·h.\n\nLegend\n\nThese three studies thus concluded that hydroelectric, wind, and nuclear power produced the least CO per kilowatt-hour of any other electricity sources.\nThese figures do not allow for emissions due to accidents or terrorism. Wind power and solar power, emit no carbon from the operation, but do leave a footprint during construction phase and maintenance during operation. Hydropower from reservoirs also has large footprints from initial removal of vegetation and ongoing methane (stream detritus decays anaerobically to methane in bottom of reservoir, rather than aerobically to CO if it had stayed in an unrestricted stream).\n\nThe table above gives the carbon footprint per kilowatt-hour of electricity generated, which is about half the world's man-made CO output. The CO footprint for heat is equally significant and research shows that using waste heat from power generation in combined heat and power district heating, chp/dh has the lowest carbon footprint, much lower than micro-power or heat pumps.\n\nCoal production has been refined to greatly reduce carbon emissions; since the 1980s, the amount of energy used to produce a ton of steel has decreased by 50%.\n\nThis section gives representative figures for the carbon footprint of the fuel burned by different transport types (not including the carbon footprints of the vehicles or related infrastructure themselves). The precise figures vary according to a wide range of factors.\n\nSome representative figures for CO emissions are provided by LIPASTO's survey of average direct emissions (not accounting for high-altitude radiative effects) of airliners expressed as CO and CO equivalent per passenger kilometre:\n\n\nHowever, emissions per unit distance travelled is not necessarily the best indicator for the carbon footprint of air travel, because the distances covered are commonly longer than by other modes of travel. It is the total emissions for a trip that matters for a carbon footprint, not merely the rate of emissions. For example, because air travel makes rapid long-distance travel feasible, a holiday destination may be chosen that is much more distant than if another mode of travel were used.\n\nCO emissions per passenger-kilometre (pkm) for all road travel for 2011 in Europe as provided by the European Environment Agency:\n\n\nFor vehicles, average figures for CO emissions per kilometer for road travel for 2013 in Europe, normalized to the NEDC test cycle, are provided by the International Council on Clean Transportation:\n\n\nAverage figures for the United States are provided by the US Environmental Protection Agency, based on the EPA Federal Test Procedure, for the following categories:\n\n\nIn 2005, the US company Amtrak's carbon dioxide equivalent emissions per passenger kilometre were 116 g, about twice as high as the UK rail average (where much more of the system is electrified), and about eight times a Finnish electric intercity train.\n\nAverage carbon dioxide emissions by ferries per passenger-kilometre seem to be . However, 18-knot ferries between Finland and Sweden produce of CO, with total emissions equalling a CO equivalent of , while 24–27-knot ferries between Finland and Estonia produce of CO with total emissions equalling a CO equivalent of .\n\nSeveral organizations offer footprint calculators for public and corporate use, and several organizations have calculated carbon footprints of products. The US Environmental Protection Agency has addressed paper, plastic (candy wrappers), glass, cans, computers, carpet and tires. Australia has addressed lumber and other building materials. Academics in Australia, Korea and the US have addressed paved roads. Companies, nonprofits and academics have addressed mailing letters and packages. Carnegie Mellon University has estimated the CO footprints of 46 large sectors of the economy in each of eight countries. Carnegie Mellon, Sweden and the Carbon Trust have addressed foods at home and in restaurants.\n\nThe Carbon Trust has worked with UK manufacturers on foods, shirts and detergents, introducing a CO label in March 2007. The label is intended to comply with a new British Publicly Available Specification (i.e. not a standard), PAS 2050, and is being actively piloted by The Carbon Trust and various industrial partners. As of August 2012 The Carbon Trust state they have measured 27,000 certifiable product carbon footprints.\n\nEvaluating the package of some products is key to figuring out the carbon footprint. The key way to determine a carbon footprint is to look at the materials used to make the item. For example, a juice carton is made of an aseptic carton, a beer can is made of aluminum, and some water bottles either made of glass or plastic. The larger the size, the larger the footprint will be.\n\nIn a 2014 study by Scarborough et al., the real-life diets of British people were surveyed and their dietary greenhouse gas footprints estimated. Average dietary greenhouse-gas emissions per day (in kilograms of carbon dioxide equivalent) were:\n\n\nThe precise carbon footprint of different textiles varies considerably according to a wide range of factors. However, studies of textile production in Europe suggest the following carbon dioxide equivalent emissions footprints per kilo of textile at the point of purchase by a consumer:\n\n\nAccounting for durability and energy required to wash and dry textile products, synthetic fabrics generally have a substantially lower carbon footprint than natural ones.\n\nThe carbon footprint of materials (also known as embodied carbon) varies widely. The carbon footprint of many common materials can be found in the Inventory of Carbon & Energy database, the GREET databases and models, and LCA databases via openLCA Nexus. The carbon footprint of any manufactured product should be verified by a third-party.\n\nCement production gives a major contribution to CO emissions. Cement production and carbon footprint resulting from soil sealing in Italy was 8.0 tonne per person CO emissions. The balance between carbon loss due to soil sealing and carbon stocked in man-made infrastructures resulted in a net loss to the atmosphere, minus 0.6 tonne CO per hectare and year.\n"}
{"id": "2263918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263918", "title": "Sengkang Sculpture Park", "text": "Sengkang Sculpture Park\n\nSengkang Sculpture Park (Chinese: 盛港雕塑公园) is a park located in the Compassvale North Gate neighbourhood in Sengkang New Town in Singapore, located between Compassvale Crescent and Sengkang East Way near Sengkang MRT/LRT station. \n\nThe park evolved from Sengkang's \"fishing village / marine\" theme and design brief which called for the introduction of \"Arts in the Park\". The 24,000-square metre park is divided into two parts (one bigger and the other smaller). The two parts straddle over Compassvale Street. Since the park is bounded overhead by LRT viaducts and underground by MRT tunnels, adhering to the LTA's Railway Protection requirements during both design and construction stages was a challenge.\n\nThe sculpture park is specially designed to allow for greater opportunity for the park user to interact with the sculptures and spaces created. This would in turn create a personal experience for the individual park user, both young and old. The park is sometimes used for activities such as dancing and aerobics.\n\nThe main entrances of the park are sited along Compassvale Street. Bright yellow tapering walls channel the park user into a \"larger than life size\" sculptural playground. These tapering walls, which act as visual markers to the park, eventually terminate at activity areas as seats.\n\nSome sculptures such as the large \"Rotating Fish Motiff Panels\" were designed to be moveable so as to allow the park user to manipulate the sculptures to a desired composition.\nThe \"Waves\" sculptures, which recollect Sengkang's \"fishing village / marine\" theme, are a metaphor of the waves of the sea. Sited on an undulating surface of \"calm\" carpet grass, one can stroll within the \"waves\" which dynamically change in form from every angle.\nColourful textured \"Bubbles\" ball sculptures are also sited within the park. These sculptures were designed as playful visual treats and at the same time, allowing the park user to interact with them by climbing, sitting or simply lazing around them.\n\nThe park culminates in front of the outdoor refreshment area of the neighbourhood centre with a cascading plaza.\n\nStanding on elevated platforms, the seven \"Dancing figurines\" stand harmoniously in line, almost as if ready to explode into action. The brightly coloured yellow blades spin in the wind, injecting life and energy into these \"dancers\".\n\nThe smaller part of the park across the road is more subtle and predictable in its sculptural composition. Designed for more passive interaction, the \"Wind\" sculptures flank both sides of the linear site with colourful rotating perforated panels which spin in the wind.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263925", "title": "Reformatory", "text": "Reformatory\n\nA reformatory or reformatory school is a youth detention center or an adult correctional facility popular during the late 19th and early 20th centuries in Western countries. In the United Kingdom and United States, they came out of social concerns about cities, poverty, immigration, and gender following industrialization, as well as from a shift in penology to reforming instead of punishing the criminal. They were traditionally single-sex institutions that relied on education, vocational training, and removal from the city. Although their use declined throughout the 20th century, their impact can be seen in practices like the United States' continued implementation of parole and the indeterminate sentence.\n\nReformatory schools were penal facilities originating in the 19th century that provided for criminal children and were certified by the government starting in 1850. As society's values changed, the use of reformatories declined and they were coalesced by an Act of Parliament into a single structure known as approved schools. Although similar in some of their practice, industrial schools were intended to prevent vulnerable children becoming criminal.\n\nThere was a perceived rise in juvenile delinquency in the early 19th century; whereas in a rural economy very young children could gain paid employment doing tasks such as bird scaring and stone gathering these opportunities were not available in the cities. Youngsters were very visible on the streets. In 1816, Parliament set up a ‘Committee for Investigating the Alarming Increase in Juvenile Crime in the Metropolis’, in 1837 the writer Charles Dickens published \"Oliver Twist\" a story about a child involved in a street gang. and in 1847 it was recognised in the Juvenile Offences Act of 1847, that children under 14 should be tried in a special court not an adult court. Begging and vagrancy was rife, and it was these low level misdemeanours that caused the magistrates to send vulnerable youngsters to industrial schools to learn to be industrious, and learn skills that would make then more employable.\n\nMore serious crimes, required an element of punishment in an environment away from older prisoners, who would have a further negative effect on the youngster, before the task of reforming their ways. The power to set up such an establishment was given in the 1854 Youthful Offenders Act (the Reformatory Schools Act). This provided financial assistance and support for reformatory schools for convicted young offenders as an alternative to prison. Industrial schools were regularised three years later by the 1857 Industrial schools act.\n\nThe first juvenile prison was the 1838 Parkhurst prison on the Isle of Wight. Separation of youngsters has been proposed earlier by Peel's Gaol Act of 1823, but implementation had generally failed. From 1824-1826 some boys were housed on the prison hulk, \"Captivity\" (the former \"Bellerophon\"). Even earlier in 1817, Samuel Hoare the Quaker banker and philanthropist and the architect James Bevan, had proposed a new suitable prison: there was no consensus as to whether a prison should be for deterrence, retribution, punishment, removing a cause of nuisance or reforming the prisoner. Parkhurst aimed to reform the prisoner, provide some education and prepare the youngster to be transported as a free man to the colonies in Australia.\n\nBy 1866 there were 51 \"certified reform schools\" in England and 14 in Scotland, but this had declined to 43 in 1913, while \"certified industrial schools\" had become more popular moving from 50 in 1866 to 132 (residential) and 21 (dayschools) in 1913.\n\nEarlier initiatives began in 1756 with the founding of the Marine Society \"for the purpose of clothing landsman and boys for the use of the king's ship, and as an expedient to provide for poor boys who might become a nuisance.\" In 1788, the Philanthropic Society was set up and opened an institution at St. George's Fields, Southwark, \"for the protection of poor children, and the offspring of convicted felons; and for the reformation of those who have themselves been engaged in criminal practices.\"\n\nThe regime was strict but fair and humane within the context of the times.\nGood behaviour was rewarded and poor behaviour punished. Punishment followed rule-breaking and rewards followed compliance. The rules were clear and transparent. The morality was simple and this would provide some security as children.\n\nSimilarly, normal living conditions for the urban poor involved overcrowded multiple occupancy in buildings with no mains drainage where diseases were rife. With no health care available- or affordable there was a high death rate amongst the malnourished children. In the reformatory there was simple regular food, the conditions were clean and medical care was available. In addition they were given free education and some training in a skill that would be marketable when they had finished their time. The success rate was high.\n\nThe differences between a 'certified reformatory' and a 'certified industrial school' lay in the intake and the philosophy. Industrial schools took students that needed protection, while the reformatory took students that had been already convicted of a serious offence. When students were sent to a reformatory, they first served a two-week spell in a full prison. Liberals thought this was pointless and conservatives still thought this would act as a 'deterrent' and was meaningful 'retribution'. Some reformatories trained for the a future in agriculture and hoped the graduates would choose to emigrate, other trained the miscreants for a life at sea either in the military or the merchant navy. To this end ten training hulks were purchased.\n\nThe \"Akbar\", (purchased in 1862) was a reform training ship moored off Birkenhead on the River Mersey. It accommodated 200 boys aged 14–16 from all over the country who had been sentenced to detention of at least 5 years. It was run by the Liverpool Juvenile Reform Society Boys were occupied in continually scrubbing the decks and until 1862 in picking oakum (teasing apart old rope so the fibres could be reused). They learned tailoring and shoemaking. Recreation was limitid to reading suitable magazines, bagatelle and playing draughts.\n\nOn 27 September 1887, ('Akbar Mutiny') while the captain was ashore the boys mutinied, they armed themselves with sticks, broke into the stores and entered the captains cabin, and stole valuables. Seventeen boys escaped on a stolen boat. There were recaptured after a few days and sent for trial. Two were sentenced to hard labour, but the rest were sent back to the ship and punished with the birch, solitary confinement and a diet of biscuit and water. The inspectors blamed the incident on the staff not being firm enough with the boys.\n\nIn July 1899, another of the Merseyside training ships, the \"Clarence\", was destroyed by a fire on a day when the ship was to have received a visit from the Bishop of Shrewsbury. An official inquiry reached no firm conclusions as to the cause, noting however that \"There remains the theory that the ship was deliberately fired\".\n\nOn shore the Mount St Bernard's RC Reformatory opened in 1856. In the same year there was a mutiny, then in 1864 a riot. In 1870 a boy died. Again in 1875 there was a mutiny where 60 out of 200 boys escaped. Three years later in 1878 there was another mutiny, with a break out and an officer was stabbed.\n\nThe \"Akbar\" was retired in 1910 and the boys moved on shore to the 'Akbar Nautical Training School' at Heswall. The magazine \"John Bull\" published a report on the Akbar Scandal, detailing cruel treatment that had apparently led to a number of deaths. It detailed that boys were tortured and there were several deaths. Boys were gagged with blankets before being secured to a birching horse, their trousers removed and then birched with hawthorn branches. The ill boys were considered malingerers and caned. Minor offences were punished with drenching and being forced to stand upright throughout the night; several boys died as a result.\nThe Home Office internal report exonerated the Akbar staff, but this led to a Departmental Committee in 1913 inquiring into punishment practices used, and the welfare of the children with reformatory and industrial schools.\n\nThe Akbar Scandal triggered a change in the management of Reformatories and Industrial Schools. They lost their autonomy and became subject of increased inspection. Charles Russell was appointed that year as Chief Inspector of the Reformatory and Industrial Schools shaped new ideas about the boys' welfare. The ethos returned to the one of care found in the 1830s away from the one of punishment that it had become. Numbers on roll declined as magistrates started to prefer the probation system. The schools accepted the common name of Approved schools in 1927 and this was formalised by the 1933 Children and Young Person's Act, which would effectively ended the Victorian Industrial and Reformatory School System. The remaining schools were re-constituted as Approved Schools with objectives more appropriate for youngsters in the 20th century.\n\nSimilar to the United Kingdom, reformatories in the United States were an alternative to traditional prisons for youth and young adults that came out of social and prison reform movements of the 19th century and early 20th centuries, also known at the Progressive Era. Industrial Schools, which emerged at the same time, were closely related institutions that primarily took in vagrant youth.\n\nSocial reformers were concerned about the urban poor, especially the growing presence of white immigrants like those from Ireland, slum conditions, and their perceived connection to rising crime rates in cities. At the same time, prison reformers were investigating and examining the terrible conditions at traditional prisons and their perceived failure to rehabilitate prisoners. Reformatories emerged as penal practice shifted toward \"treat[ing] rather than punish[ing]\" inmates and attempting to prevent the creation of future criminals, which was marked by the first meeting of the National Congress on Penitentiary and Reformatory Discipline in 1870 in Cincinnati, Ohio. Penologists from around the world gathered to consider new visions for imprisonment and collectively endorsed a general aim for reforming prisoners with their Declaration of Principles.\n\nReformatories were mostly single-sex institutions that offered gendered \"educational, vocational, and recreational\" activities and opportunities. Reformatories for women aimed to legislate morality through criminalizing female sexuality, contributing to the creation of the category of \"delinquent girl.\" White middle and upper-class women spearheaded the reformatory movement for women, criticizing the condition of women in traditional correctional facilities, and advocating for separate institutions. At New York's Auburn Prison (1818 – ), for example, female prisoners did not fit into the ascetic penology the facility pioneered. Segregated from the male population in a crowded, unventilated attic above the guard's barracks, not only did they defy the Silent System Auburn enforced, but were also unsupervised, and vulnerable to the predations of male guards. Further, women were not allowed to contribute through manual labor, and were left to languish, locked inside most of the time. Part of the issue was that before the Civil War, women were an extreme minority in United States' prisons: in the mid-1840s, Dorothea Dix recorded a grand total of 167 women in prisons from Maine through Virginia. As Beaumont and De Tocqueville observed in their survey of American Prisons (\"On the Penitentiary System in The United States...\"): It is because they occupy little space in the prison, that they have been neglected. It is the same with most evils of society, a remedy for which is ardently sought if they are important; if they are not alarming they are overlooked.But when a female inmate, secretly five months pregnant, was flogged to death in the early 1830s, progressive activists were livid, and pushed the New York State Legislature to found Mount Pleasant Prison, in Ossining NY, in 1835, the first female prison created by an act of law in the United States. Mount Pleasant and other women's facilities like it aimed to make inmates embody Victorian standards of womanhood, through training in domestic services, and education regarding sexual standards and women's role in society. Prisons like Bedford Hills (1901 – ) went so far as to adopt a \"cottage plan,\" each housing unit with 28 single rooms (which could be decorated), a kitchen, and a flower garden. Even well into the 1920s – and supported by the social science of the era, as codified in law by the 1908 Muller v. Oregon ruling – labor in women's prisons would be limited to sewing, cleaning, and other chores.\n\nBlack youth were traditionally excluded from reformatory institutions, like reformatories and industrial schools, unless separate ones were created exclusively for them, like Philadelphia's \"Colored House of Refuge.\" These institutions did not offer similar types of education and training to those for white youth and, instead, often prepared Black youth for gendered menial labor (ex: physical labor and domestic work) that would reinforce their social position.\n\nThe term \"reformatory\" also has considerable constitutional significance in Canada, as s.92 (6) of the British North America Act, 1867 exclusively reserves powers over reformatories and prisons to provincial jurisdiction, as well as pre-trial incarceration for those judged unsuitable for bail. In contrast, s. 91 (28) exclusively reserves powers over penitentiaries and criminal legislation to federal jurisdiction creating an intricately overlapping burden of responsibility In some provinces, particularly British Columbia, pre-trial detainees greatly suffer relatively to convicted provincial inmates (or even many federal inmates)\n. Under current law, most juveniles and anyone sentenced to a term of imprisonment up to and including two years less a day will serve time in a provincial prison or reformatory (although they may be released far earlier due to overcrowding or a determination that further incarceration is unjustified). Controversially, the use of \"two years less a day\" sentences has been used by some judges to avoid mandatory sentences such as deportation, weapons prohibitions, prohibitions to entry to the US, or harsh pardon ineligibility barriers.\n\nThe use of the terms \"prison\", \"correctional centre\", and \"reformatory\" vary by province and category of offender. In contrast, federal penitentiaries are mostly referred to simply as \"institutions\". In addition, a person who would face a provincial sentence of incarceration for an offence would face criminal proceedings more directly administered by the province. For example, judges in such proceedings are appointed by the province, rather than superior court justices who are appointed by the federal government (despite most prosecutors, superior court justices, and court costs being paid by the provinces in such cases). Provincial governments also have more leeway to create diversion programs in such cases. Such offences are often prosecuted (if at all) by summary charge and result in relatively minor sentences.\n\nUntil 1972, the term reformatory referred to an Ontario provincial prison for either juveniles (16 and 17 years of age) or adults (18 years of age or older). Very often, one reformatory facility would house both. Offenders under the age of 16 were held in \"Training Schools\". After 1972, when Ontario's Department of Correctional Services (having been renamed in 1968 from the Department of Reform Institutions) became the Ministry of Correctional Services, these facilities were officially redesignated as \"correctional centres\".\n\nExamples:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263930", "title": "Medenine", "text": "Medenine\n\nMedenine ( \"\" ) is the major town in south-eastern Tunisia, south of the port of Gabès and the Island of Djerba, on the main route to Libya. It is the capital of Medenine Governorate.\n\nIn pre-colonial times, Medenine was already the most important trading centre in the south, attracting merchants from all over North Africa and even from Bornu, to the south of the Sahara. The Ksar housed the central granaries of the various nomadic Berber tribes of the region.\n\nThe area was the scene of an unsuccessful German counter-attack by General Erwin Rommel as part of Operation Capri during March 1943 against British Eighth Army forces. The Battle of Medenine was Rommel's last engagement in Africa before he was replaced by General Hans-Jürgen von Arnim as commander of the Afrika Korps.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263934", "title": "Musical language", "text": "Musical language\n\nMusical languages are constructed languages based on musical sounds, which tend to incorporate articulation. Unlike tonal languages, focused on stress, and whistled languages, focused on pitch bends, musical languages distinguish pitches or rhythms. Whistled languages are dependent on an underlying spoken languages and are used in various cultures as a means for communication over distance, or as secret codes. The mystical concept of a language of the birds tries to connect the two categories, since some authors of musical \"a priori\" languages have speculated about a mystical or primeval origin of the whistled languages.\n\nThere are only a few language families as of now such as the Solresol language family, Moss language family, and Nibuzigu language family. \n\nThe Solresol family is a family of a posteriori languages (usually English) where a sequence of 7 notes of the western C-Major scale or the 12 tone chromatic scale are used as phonemes.\n\n\nThe Nibuzigu family\n\nKobaïan is a language constructed by Christian Vander of the band Magma, which uses elements of Slavic and Germanic languages, but is based primarily on 'sonorities, not on applied meanings'.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263956", "title": "Christian Rudolph Wilhelm Wiedemann", "text": "Christian Rudolph Wilhelm Wiedemann\n\nChristian Rudolph Wilhelm Wiedemann (December 7, 1770 in Brunswick – December 31, 1840 in Kiel), was a German physician, historian, naturalist and entomologist. He is best known for his studies of world Diptera, but he also studied Hymenoptera and Coleoptera, although far less expertly.\n\nWiedemann’s father, Conrad Eberhard Wiedemann (1722–1804) was an art dealer and his mother, Dorothea Frederike (née Raspe) (1741–1804) was the daughter of an accountant in the Royal Mining Service and also interested in the arts.\n\nAfter his education in Brunswick, he matriculated in 1790 to the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Jena where he was a contemporary of the poet Friedrich von Hardenberg.\n\nWhile attending university, Wiedemann, was one of the many pupils of Johann Friedrich Blumenbach, and travelled to Saxony and Bohemia. He obtained his doctoral degree in 1792 with a thesis entitled \"Dissertatio inauguralis sistens vitia gennus humanum debilitantia\". He then went to England to increase his knowledge of mineralogy.\n\nAppointed Professor of Anatomy at Brunswick’s Collegium Carolinum in 1794, his inaugural address was about a medical condition observed in a boy at Llandeilo, Wales. It was titled \"Über das fehlende Brustbein\", English “On the missing breastbone”.\n\nIn 1796 he married Luise Michaelis, the daughter of Johann David Michaelis, an Orientalist. They would raise the two sons of Luise's brother, who died in a cholera epidemic. The couple had nine children of their own, two dying in infancy.\n\nHe was later appointed Lecturer in his specialist field obstetrics\n\nIn the late 17th century, there was a movement, based in Brunswick, to establish German as a scientific language. Able to read Latin, English, French and Italian, Wiedemann found remunerative work as a translator.\n\nIn 1801 he received a scholarship for study in Paris from the Duke of Brunswick. Here he studied obstetrics and natural history and met Georges Cuvier, amongst other zoologists.\n\nIn 1802, he was, in addition to his other medical appointments, made Professor of Obstetrics at the College of Anatomy and Surgery and was nominated Privy Councillor at the court of the Duchy of Brunswick and Lüneburg.\n\nIn 1804 he contracted syphilis which had serious effects in later years.\n\nIn 1805 he became Professor of Medicine in Kiel (then in Denmark and part of the Duchy of Holstein) with the title Counsellor of Justice and, later Counsellor of State. These were difficult years for Denmark which had sided with France in the Napoleonic Wars against England (and her allies) to preserve her maritime empire. Money was a problem and Wiedemann used his own resources to set up the midwifery clinic proposed as one of his duties as professor.\n\nIn 1811 he travelled south to Italy for his health.\n\nFrom around 1814 Wiedemann devoted much of his time to taxonomic entomology and in 1815, on a visit to Bonn to stay with his daughter Emma who had married Carl Theodor Welcker later a radical embroiled in the turbulent politics of the 1840s he travelled to Stolberg to meet Johann Wilhelm Meigen a, by then, well known entomologist through his important work on Diptera. Perhaps, not able to attend properly to his medical duties through ill health- he visited the spa town of Bad Aachen in 1817- Wiedemann changed employment (to Pharmacology) and had several semi-honorary positions. With more time and sedentary, he prepared and studied insects and went on collecting trips for his health. He also gaves lectures on entomology and natural history.\n\nWiedemann’s most productive work on insects was accomplished in the 1820s. But when he attended a scientific meeting in Hamburg in 1830 this too was drawing to a close. His eyesight was very poor and he had a succession of strokes.\n\nWiedemann main natural history interest remained entomology but he was also interested in mineralogy and conchology. In 1827 his collections included 5,000 minerals and over 3,500 species of Diptera.\n\nHe is known to have visited Hamburg, Copenhagen and Berlin in these years but nothing is so far known of these trips although they may well have been to further his insect studies.\n\nWiedemann published the first monographs on “exotic” (non-European) Diptera.\nHe was the creator of the transitory review \"Archiv für Zoologie und Zootomie\" 1800-1806 (five volumes) 2,356 pages. Berlin and Brunswick and the \"Zoologisches Magazin\" (volumes 1-2) 1817-1823 749 pages. Kiel and Altona.\n\nAlthough he worked mainly on Diptera he also published descriptions of Coleoptera and (at least one) Hymenopteran.\n\nHe was the successor to Johan Christian Fabricius as the author of descriptions of “exotic” that is non-European Diptera. Meigen worked only on the European species.\n\nHis descriptions show clear advances, both over Fabricius and many of his contemporaries. A brief Latin diagnosis, a fuller detailed description in German, the sex of the specimen, locality details, a reference to the collection in which the specimen was to be found and, sometimes, the name of the collector.\n\nIn Brunswick, then an important centre for entomology Wiedemann worked with Johann Christian Ludwig Hellwig and Johann Karl Wilhelm Illiger setting new standards for descriptions (uniform terminology for structures and colour) and for nomenclature, especially in regard to the avoidance of synonyms by proper research of pre-existing literature. He was critical of Fabricius in this respect, although honouring him as a great entomologist\n\nIn \"Aussereuropäische Zweiflügelige Insekten\" he described 1000 new and redescribed 500 old (mainly Fabrician) species. This work, supplemental to Meigen followed Meigen in introducing many new genera. He could have gone further than he did with “exotic” genera. He introduced too few of these but the full extent of diversity of world Diptera was not then apparent.The work includes descriptions of Diptera collected by Ferdinand Deppe in Mexico.\n\nWiedemann, in his studies of the Fabrician) species was careful to consider only Fabricius specimens identified by their labels in Fabricius’ hand. This is at the core of the modern concept of type specimens.\n\nHe made his studies as comprehensive as possible, studying the collections of Wilhelm Von Winthem and Bernt Wilhelm Westermann and studied the collections in Copenhagen, Berlin, Frankfurt, Kiel, Leiden and Vienna. He also studied Thomas Say’s borrowing these from the Philadelphia museum. He was unable to study the Linnean and the Fabricius types (both in London) or visit Paris.\n\nWiedemann's published work on entomology was almost entirely descriptive and notable for its accuracy.\n\n\nWiedemann's collection of Diptera and Hymenoptera was taken over by Wilhelm von Winthem who presented part to the Natural History Museum, Vienna (Naturhistorisches Museum, Wien) the rest to the Senckenberg Museum in Frankfurt, The Zoological Museum, University of Copenhagen (Zoologisk Museum, Københavns Universitet).\nCollection contents online \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263974", "title": "Bouveault–Blanc reduction", "text": "Bouveault–Blanc reduction\n\nThe Bouveault–Blanc reduction is a chemical reaction in which an ester is reduced to primary alcohols using absolute ethanol and sodium metal. It was first reported by Louis Bouveault and Gustave Louis Blanc in 1903. Bouveault and Blanc demonstrated the reduction of ethyl oleate and \"n\"-butyl oleate to oleyl alcohol. modified versions of which were subsequently refined and published in \"Organic Syntheses\".\n\nThis reaction is used commercially although for laboratory scale reactions it was made obsolete by the introduction of lithium aluminium hydride.\n\nSodium metal is a one-electron reducing agent. Four equivalents of sodium are required to fully reduce each ester. Ethanol serves as a proton source. The reaction produces sodium alcoxides, according to the following stoichiometry:\nIn practice, considerable sodium is consumed by the formation of hydrogen. For this reason, an excess of sodium is often required. Because the hydrolysis of sodium is rapid, not to mention dangerous, the Bouveault-Blanc reaction requires anhydrous ethanol. The mechanism of the reaction follows:\n\nConsistent with this mechanism, sodium-ethanol mixtures will also reduce ketones to alcohols.\n\nThis approach to reducing esters was widely used prior to the availability of hydride reducing agents such as lithium aluminium hydride and related reagents. It requires vigorous reaction conditions and has a significant risk of fires, explaining its relative unpopularity. One modification involves encapsulating the alkali metal into a silica gel, which has a safety and yield profile similar to that of hydride reagents. Another modification using a sodium dispersion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263976", "title": "Mirepoix, Ariège", "text": "Mirepoix, Ariège\n\nMirepoix (, supposedly from \"mire peis\", meaning \"see the fish\") is a commune in the Ariège department in southwestern France.\n\nMirepoix is situated in the Hers valley between Carcassonne and Pamiers.\n\nMirepoix was captured in 1209 by Simon V de Montfort and given to one of his lieutenants, Guy de Lévis. The town, originally on the right bank of the Hers-Vif, was destroyed by a violent flood in 1289. It was rebuilt by Jean de Lévisin 1290, on an elevated natural terrace on the other side of the river. The layout of the town center has not changed since the 13th century.\n\nMirepoix Cathedral (\"Cathédrale Saint-Maurice de Mirepoix\"), a former Roman Catholic cathedral and national monument of France, was the seat of a bishopric until 1801.\n\nThe inhabitants are called \"Mirapiciens\".\n\nAt the heart of Mirepoix is one of the finest surviving arcaded market squares - Les Couverts- in France. The square is bordered by houses dating from the thirteenth to the fifteenth centuries.\n\nThe mediaeval Maison des Consuls (council house) has rafter-ends carved with dozens of images of animals and monsters, and caricatures of mediaeval professions and social groups.\n\nThe cathedral of St-Maurice has the second widest Gothic arch in Europe (after Girona in Catalonia, Spain). The foundation stone was laid by Jean de Lévis on the 6th May 1298. Construction continued, with interruptions, over the next six centuries. The cathedral was restored in 1858 and 1859 by Prosper Mérimée, and Eugène Viollet-le-Duc.\n\nLa Porte d'Aval dates from 1372.\n\nMirepoix's bridge is 206 meters long and has seven arches. It is the work of architect Jean-Rodolphe Perronet (1708–1794), whose best known works are the Pont de la Concorde in Paris (1787–1791) and the bridge of Nantes. Work on its construction was started in 1776. Near the bridge and closer to town a much smaller bridge passes over a canal; near this layer bridge is the 'chêne vert', an ancient oak tree about 800 years old.\n\nThe first mention of the ancient Château de Terride dates from 960. It was captured (together with Mirepoix as a whole) by Simon de Montfort on 22 September 1209. The castle took the name of 'Terride' in the 16th century.\n\n\n\"MiMa\" is an international festival of the art of marionettes held every summer. Each year the event is built around a central theme. The line-up showcases a variety of techniques including object theatre, glove puppets, string puppets and marionettes portées (puppets carried by a handle on the back of the head).\n\n\"Mirepoix Musique\" promotes concerts of classical music (particularly French and English) and readings throughout the year in and around Mirepoix.\n\n\"Salon du Livre d’Histoire Locale de Mirepoix\"\n\nThe festival \"Swing à Mirepoix\" is held each year over the Easter weekend.\n\n"}
{"id": "2263983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263983", "title": "Foudre-class landing platform dock", "text": "Foudre-class landing platform dock\n\nThe \"Foudre\"-class landing platform dock was a class of landing platform docks designed and used by the French Navy. The vessels have operated from 1990 until the present. In 2011 \"Foudre\" was sold to the Chilean Navy. \"Siroco\" was sold to the Brazilian Navy in 2015.\n\nThe \"Foudre\" class was designed to load a mechanized regiment aboard and act as its logistical support vessel once in theatre. Each ship of the class displaces 11,300 tonnes at standard load and 12,000 tonnes at full load. The vessels are long with a beam of and a draught of . \n\nThe \"Foudre\" class carry large stowage areas which can be used to ferry battle tanks and vehicles, a 52-ton elevating platform, a lateral ramp and a flight deck able to simultaneously operate several helicopters.\nThree rotations of such ships can ferry a whole armoured regiment with its 22 AMX-30 or Leclerc battle tanks, 44 AMX 10 RC heavy armoured cars, 22 \"véhicules de l'Avant Blindé\", 41 all-terrain light vehicles (including 16 MILAN anti-tank missile systems), 54 TRM 4000 trucks, 15 TRM 2000 light trucks, 5 fuel trucks, 2 tug trucks, 6 120 mm mortars, 67 towed containers and one beach carpeting system, overall 3300 tonnes. \n\nThe hull is built around a well deck which constitutes three-quarters of the length of the ship, and can accommodate up to eight landing craft. The landing craft can be put to sea by filling ballast tanks and lowering the ship, and opening the rear door.\n\nThe aeronautical installations allow all-weather operations of transport helicopters, intended to carry commandos. 4 Super-Puma or 2 Super-Frelon helicopters can be accommodated in the hangar.\n\nThe \"Foudre\" class is equipped with two SEMT Pielstick 16 PC 2.5 V400 diesels connected to two adjustable-blade propellers and one beam propeller. There is an auxiliary beam propeller (1,000 hp). This gives the ships a speed of \nand an effective range of at .\n\nThe electrical plant consists of five SACM-Unidiesel diesels alternators creating 4,250 kW (5 × 850 kW) of electrical power.\n\nShips of the \"Foudre\" class are supplied with three surface-to-air Mistral systems for air defence. They are also equipped with three 30 mm Breda-Mauser guns and four 12.7 mm M2-HB Browing machine guns.\n\nIn 1999, \"Siroco\" was deployed to East Timor as part of the International Force for East Timor.\n\nIn June 2010, French defence minister Hervé Morin offered \"Foudre\" to the Argentine Navy during his visit to Buenos Aires. Argentina had already declined the transfer of the in the past and is more interested in seeking French support for a locally built amphibious ship instead.\n\nIn October 2011 it was announced that Chile and France had finalized negotiations for sale of \"Foudre\" to Chile for around USD80 million.\n\nIn December 2011 \"Foudre\" entered service in the Chilean Navy as \"Sargento Aldea\". The 2013 French White Paper on Defence and National Security said that \"Siroco\" would be decommissioned, a decision confirmed in October 2014.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2263985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263985", "title": "Australian water dragon", "text": "Australian water dragon\n\nThe Australian water dragon (\"Intellagama lesueurii\", formerly \"Physignathus lesueurii\" ), which includes the eastern water dragon (\"Intellagama lesueurii lesueurii\" ) and the Gippsland water dragon (\"Intellagama lesueurii howittii\" ) subspecies, is an arboreal agamid species native to eastern Australia from Victoria northwards to Queensland. There may be a small introduced population on the south-east coast of South Australia.\n\nThe specific name, \"lesueurii\", is in honor of French naturalist Charles Alexandre Lesueur.\n\nAustralian water dragons have long powerful limbs and claws for climbing, a long muscular laterally-compressed tail for swimming, and prominent nuchal and vertebral crests. (A nuchal crest is a central row of spikes at the base of the head. These spikes continue down the spine, getting smaller as they reach the base of the tail.)\n\nIncluding their tails, which comprise about two-thirds of their total length, adult females grow to about 60 cm (2 feet) long, and adult males can grow slightly longer than one metre (3 feet) and weigh about 1 kg. Males show bolder colouration and have larger heads than females. Colour is less distinct in juveniles.\n\nThe Australian water dragon is the only species of the genus \"Intellagama\".\n\nThere are two subspecies; \"Intellagama lesueurii lesueurii\" (eastern water dragon) and \"Intellagama lesueurii howitti\" (Gippsland water dragon). \"Intellagama lesueurii lesueurii\" tends towards white, yellow and red on the throat and possesses a dark band behind its eye; \"Intelligama lesueurii howitti\" lacks this and instead has dark bands on either side of its throat, which is blotched with yellow, orange, or blue. Both subspecies are light greenish grey in overall colour with black bands running across their back, tail and legs. The water dragon can slowly change skin colour to aid its camouflage. The skin will shed during periods of growth.\n\nAustralian water dragons are extremely shy in the wild, but readily adapt to continual human presence in suburban parks and gardens. They are fast runners and strong climbers. When faced with a potential predator, they seek cover in thick vegetation, or drop from an overhanging branch into water. They are able to swim totally submerged, and rest on the bottom of shallow creeks or lakes for up to 90 minutes, to avoid detection.\n\nBoth males and females display typical agamid behaviour such as basking, arm-waving and head-bobbing. Fast arm-waving signals dominance, while slow arm-waving signals submission. Males are territorial, and in areas of higher population density, males exhibit displays of aggression toward other males including posturing, chasing and fighting.\n\nAustralian water dragons living in cooler Australian climates hibernate over winter. During spring, usually in early October, the female excavates a burrow about deep and lays between 6 and 18 eggs. The nest is usually in sandy or soft soil, in an area open to sun. When the mother has laid the eggs, she backfills the chamber with soil and scatters loose debris over it. Australian water dragons exhibit temperature dependent sex determination; the sex of the hatchlings is determined by the temperature of the nest site.\n\nWhen the young are born they stay near the entrance of the burrow for some time before leaving home. When they finally leave the nest, they tend to group together away from the adult population.\n\nAs its name suggests, the Australian water dragon is associated with water and is semi-aquatic. It can be found near creeks, rivers, lakes and other water bodies that have basking sites such as overhanging branches or rocks in open or filtered sun. The species is very common in the rainforest section of Brisbane Botanic Gardens, Mount Coot-tha in Queensland, and a monument has been built to them there.\n\nThere are anecdotal reports of a small colony living on the Sixth Creek in the Forest Range area of South Australia, which were probably introduced there during the 1980s by a local reptile enthusiast. This is many hundreds of miles outside their natural range.\n\nAustralian water dragons are prey to birds, snakes, cats, dogs and foxes. Nestlings and smaller juvenile water dragons are vulnerable to predation by kookaburras, currawongs, butcherbirds and other carnivorous birds. They are also prone to becoming road kill due to the attraction of warm bitumen and concrete for basking.\nThe Australian water dragon's diet depends on its size. Juveniles and yearlings tend to feed on small insects such as ants, spiders, crickets, and caterpillars. When they get bigger, so does their prey. An adult diet includes small rodents such as baby mice, although insects are still the most commonly consumed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2264013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264013", "title": "Flowerhorn cichlid", "text": "Flowerhorn cichlid\n\nFlowerhorn cichlids are ornamental aquarium fish noted for their vivid colors and the distinctively shaped heads for which they are named. Their head protuberance, or \"kok\", is formally termed a nuchal hump. Like blood parrot cichlids, they are man-made hybrids that exist in the wild only because of their release. First developed in Malaysia, Thailand, and Taiwan, they became very popular with Asian fish hobbyists. They are also kept by hobbyists in the US and Europe. Numerous cast-off flowerhorns have been released to the wild, especially in Singapore and Malaysia, where they have become an invasive pest animal. Their importation is banned in Australia.\n\nFlowerhorn breeding dates to 1993. Taiwanese and Malaysians admired fish with protruding heads, known as 'kaloi' or 'warships', found in the western part of the nation. The slightly protruding forehead and long tail of these fish were prized in Taiwanese society as bringing luck in geomancy. By 1994, red devil cichlids (typically \"Amphilophus labiatus\") and trimac cichlids (\"Amphilophus trimaculatus\") had been imported from Central America to Malaysia and the hybrid blood parrot cichlid had been imported from Taiwan to Malaysia and bred these fish together, marking the birth of the flowerhorn.\n\nIn 1995, the blood parrots were further crossbred with the Human Face Red God of Fortune, which produced a new breed called the Five-colors God of Fortune. With its beautiful colors, this fish quickly became popular. Selective breeding continued through 1998, when the Seven-colors Blue Fiery Mouth (also known as Greenish Gold Tiger) was imported from Central America, and crossbred with the Jin Gang Blood Parrot from Taiwan. This crossbreeding led to the first generation of flowerhorn hybrids (often generically called luohans in English), which were then followed by subsequent flowerhorn introductions.\n\nWhen luohans were first imported to the United States, there were only two varieties of these fish for distribution, flowerhorn and golden base. Flowerhorns came in two varieties, those with pearls (silver-white spots on the skin) and those without. Golden bases also had two varieties, those that faded and those that did not. Among the flowerhorns, the ones without pearls were quickly overtaken in popularity by those with pearls, becoming pearl-scale flowerhorns, which were developed into the Zhen Zhu variety. Within the golden bases, the unfaded ones developed an attractive golden skin in place of what had been the flowerhorn's grey skin.\n\nBy 1999, there were four varieties of flowerhorn available in the American market: regular flowerhorns, pearl-scale flowerhorns, golden flowerhorns, and faders. Commercial breeders proliferated, and fish were selected for appearance with little regard for terminology. Consequently, names became confusing and parentage became difficult to track.\n\nAround 2000 to 2001, the Kamfa variety appeared. These were hybrids of any type of flowerhorn crossed with any species of the genus \"Vieja\" or with any parrot cichlid. These brought in some new traits, such as short mouths, wrapped tails, sunken eyes, and increasingly larger head bumps. Seeing this, those who bred the Zhen Zhus began line breeding their fish to develop faster and become more colorful, in order to compete with the Kamfa strains.\n\nFlowerhorn cichlids have a lifespan of 10–12 years. They are usually kept at a water temperature of 80–85 °F, and a pH of 7.4–8.0. They require a tank of a minimum of 40 gallons, with 75 gallons optimal. A breeding pair may require a tank of 150 gallons or more, depending on size. Being aggressive and territorial, two or more flowerhorns are usually not kept together, but the tank housing them can be divided up with acrylic dividers or egg crates.\n\nThere are several ways by which breeders distinguish between male and female flowerhorns. Generally, the males are larger than the females, but there are some exceptions. Males have the kok, or the nuchal hump, on their foreheads. Males also usually have brighter and more vivid colors. For most breeds, the females have black dots on their dorsal fins, whereas males usually have longer anal and dorsal fins. Females tend to have an orange belly, especially when ready to breed. The mouth of the male is thicker and more pronounced than the female's. One sure way to determine the sex of flowerhorn is that grown female will lay eggs every month even without the male.\n\nFlowerhorn cichlids are subject to several diseases, including hole-in-head disease, \"ich\", and digestive blockages.\n\nThe original flowerhorn hybrid stock are referred to as luohans (from the Chinese word for the Buddhist concept of ). The four main derived varieties are Zhen Zhu, Golden Monkey, Kamfa, and the golden base group, which includes Faders and the Golden Trimac. They are sometimes referred to as breeds, though that term technically only refers to varieties of fully domesticated species.\n\nBlood parrot cichlids were the earliest defined type of cichlid hybrid, whereas the King Kong Parrot represents an early stage in the transition to flowerhorn breeding. The blood parrots are smaller, with a bigger head, more protruding eyes, and a V-shaped mouth. The King Kong Parrot is longer, with a reddish orange color, and a dorsal fin shorter than the anal fin. The shape of the King Kong is similar to the red devil cichlid, and, when it reaches a size of 18 cm, the shape of the mouth changes to a triangle with a more protruding jaw. Only 20% of these fish grow to a size of a half kilogram.\n\nKing Kong Parrots are sometimes colored purple or blue by pigment injection. This practice is unhealthy for the fish, and the color will fade with time. Parrot cichlids fed with natural colorants and attractants naturally develop a red color. With further breeding, a round body shape has been selected, with the dorsal fin and anal fin longer than the tail fin, and the mouth can open and close naturally. These fish have clear eyes, and 90% of them grow to 1 kg or above, with the characteristic flowerhorn head shape.\n\nThe Red Mommon and Red Ingot varieties are the most typical of these hybrid cichlids. Both of these fishes are appreciated for feng shui. The Red Mommon is named for its high forehead, which looks like the hat worn by the God of Fortune. The Red Ingot is named for its \"yuan-bao\" shape, referring to odd-shaped gold or silver pieces formerly used as money in China.\n\nThe Red Mommon and Red Ingot grow faster in the first year, with a size of about 20 cm. They grow to 25–28 cm by two years later. Their maximum size is not yet known, and it is believed that the fish may grow to 30 cm or above in the future. Both of these fish are raised at 28 °C water temperature, pH ~6–8 (with slightly acid water preferred), and kH ~3–6, while avoiding any sudden change in water quality. It is also common to test regularly for ammonia and nitrite. Both of these fishes can be bred with different kinds of cichlids.\n\nThe genuine Golden Monkey (also called Good Fortune) or Kamalau was bred by Lam Seah and Lam Soon in Bercham, Ipoh, Malaysia. After the third generation, all of them were sold to the A-1 Aquarium in 2001. This type of flowerhorn is an original luohan-based fish and not a mixed-type Zen Zhu or Kamfa.\n\nIt can be a particularly expensive flowerhorn, carrying a price tag of more than one thousand dollars. The most expensive Golden Monkey was sold for $600,000 dollars during a Malaysian exhibition in 2009.\n\nThis variety originated directly from the luohan. Its main characteristics are white or yellow eyes (red eyes are possible but not common), a fan tail, a water-colored head bump, sunken eyes, and smaller lips than the Zhen Zhu. This variety generally also has a larger and more square body than that of the Zhen Zhu. Head flowers can be found on the Kamfa, but not as prominently as with Zhen Zhus.\nThis variety originated slightly after the Kamfa, derived from the luohan. It has a rounded tail, large mouth, red protruding eyes, and a prominent head flower. Zhen Zhu means 'pearl flowerhorn'. This variety's strongest characteristic is pearling. Breeders often cross other types with Zhen Zhus because they breed easily and can create better pearling (flowerline) for the next generation. Weak tails can also carry over, however.\n\nGolden base is a group of multiple varieties, including Faders and Golden Trimac. Faders are called by that name because during the juvenile period of life they first lose their color and go completely black then, as the fading process continues, the black fades away, leaving a more vibrant color, usually yellow or red.\n\nRed Texas cichlids are related to the golden base family of flowerhorns. They were originally created by breeding a green Texas cichlid with a Mommon or King Kong parrot, then crossing the offspring back to the parents until a consistent red color was achieved. Hobbyists consider the most important feature of the red Texas to be the color. Red Texas cichlids range in colors, and are rated as:\n\n\nThe second characteristic that sets the red Texas apart is the pearling. Red Texas can vary greatly in terms of the type of pearling.\n\nFrom the Kamfa family, this fish typically has white or yellow sunken eyes, although red eyes are possible but rare. Distinctive features of this strain include an intense black double flower row along the lateral line, and very thick white pearling. Originating in Thailand, this strain has seen a recent rebirth in Vietnam. The body is typical of a Kamfa, with a fan tail, and a longer body than some other Kamfas. King Kamfa is the most expensive flowerhorn strain.\n\nThis is a cross of a Kamfa male and a Malau female. The body and face resemble a typical Kamfa (see above). The finnage and sunken eyes reflect the Kamfa genes. The main feature of a Kamfamalau is the pearling. Fins typically take on a \"frosted\" pearl look that is rarely found in any other varieties of flowerhorn. Pearling usually crosses all the way across the head bump, another rarity in flowerhorn varieties. This strain should display the best characteristics of both Kamfa and Malau.\n\nThe Thai Silk, also known as Titanium, is a relatively new strain which is almost completely metallic blue, gold, or white. Its origins are unclear. A new strain of Thai silk has been developed that has a kamfa-type body and red, blue, or white eyes. It was believed to be a cross between White Tigers (Texas lineage), pure Texas cichlid and a Vieja.\n\nA strain is a more specific subset within a particular variety. Strains can get as narrowly defined as all coming from one individual parent fish. Strains can also differ by country of origin and by breeder.\n\nCreated by Ah Soon of Malaysia, these fish are characterized by a large stocky body, as well as metallic pearling.\n\nThese were created by the Indonesian Luohan Club (ILC), using a Golden Monkey (or Malau) female and a Zhen Zhu male. The second generation was spawned from the Elvis selection and a Golden Monkey female. The strain is characterized by extensive pearling all over the body, face, and head. What distinguishes an IndoMalau's pearls from that of a Zhen Zhu or a King Kamfa is that they are extremely fine. As the fish ages, the pearls become more intricately woven and thinner. Flowerlines vary dramatically; some only have a few flower spots. Most ILC IndoMalaus will include some singular flowers on the back line or \"top row\". The front half of the fish, from the pectoral fins forwards, is red. The back half is a golden gradient intensifying in color towards the tail. The body is very wide and high, a throwback to the original luohan. There is a very pronounced chin or \"gobbler\". The head is usually forward-protruding. The tail is fan-shaped, close to that of a Kamfa. The dorsal and anal fins lack trailers, a common trait found also in Zhen Zhu. The caudal peduncle is very large and pronounced in this strain.\nThis strain was created by a Mr. Tan of Vietnam, by crossing a Zhen Zhu with a Kamfa. It has pearls and a flowerline like a King Kamfa, but the body and fins are more closely related to the Zhen Zhu. Most have protruding eyes and a more rounded tail like a Zhen Zhu.\n\nNew flowerhorn strains have been developed through breeding programs in the United States. Although it is hard for the US to compete with Asia's well established flowerhorn breeding farms, strains with unique genetics have been created.\n\nFlowerhorns have been criticized by cichlid hobbyists and environmentalists for a number of reasons. Interest in flowerhorns resulted in culling of surplus and deformed fish, some of which were dumped in the wild in Malaysia and Singapore, where they survived and disrupted riverine and pond ecosystems. Like many other cichlids, flowerhorns are aggressive and can breed quickly, competing with and eating native fish.\n\nFlowerhorn breeding contributes to the commercial demand for new and different fish, leading to unethical practices such as breeding for anatomical deformities, as occurred in goldfish breeding.\n\nWithin the aquarium hobby, flowerhorns are not favored because of the difficulty of breeding them. The majority of flowerhorn males are sterile (cannot reproduce), so finding one that can is time consuming. Hobbyists have to wait until 8–10 months for a male fish to reach sexual maturity then pair it with a female to test fertility.\n"}
{"id": "2264014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264014", "title": "Epicenity", "text": "Epicenity\n\nEpicenity is the lack of gender distinction, often reducing the emphasis on the masculine to allow the feminine. It includes androgyny – having both masculine and feminine characteristics.\n\nThe adjective gender-neutral may describe epicenity (and both terms are related to the terms gender-neutral language, gender-neutral pronoun, gender-blind, and unisex).\n\nIn linguistics, the adjective \"epicene\" is used to describe a word that has only one form for both male and female referents. In some cases, the term \"common\" is also used, but should not be confused with \"common\" or \"appellative\" as a contrary to \"proper\" (as in proper noun).\nIn English, for example, the epicene (\"or\" common) nouns \"cousin\" and \"violinist\" can refer to a man or a woman, and so can the epicene (\"or\" common) pronoun \"one\". The noun \"stewardess\" and the third-person singular pronouns \"he\" and \"she\" on the other hand are not epicene (\"or\" common).\n\nIn languages with grammatical gender, the term \"epicene\" can be used in two distinct situations:\n\nThis can be further complicated when dealing with spoken French (when some orthographical nuances are lost) or referring about biological entities with non-binary gender, such as the hermaphrodite snail or dioecious plants.\n\n"}
{"id": "2264019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264019", "title": "F-010", "text": "F-010\n\nF-010 or T plug or PTT plug is a type of telephone plug and matching socket. The F-010 standard originated in France and is used there (overseas departments and territories included) and in other countries, including Algeria, Andorra, Bhutan, Burkina Faso, Chad, Comoros, Republic of the Congo, Djibouti, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Grenadines, Ivory Coast, Madagascar, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Monaco, Morocco, Niger, Rwanda, Senegal, Somalia, Togo and Tunisia.\n\nThe F-010 is described in \"Spécifications techniques d'interface\" edited by France Télécom.\n\nIn France, it has been replaced by RJ45 since the NF C 15-100 standard in 2008, mandatory for any new construction.\n"}
{"id": "2264036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264036", "title": "Bill Ponsford", "text": "Bill Ponsford\n\nWilliam Harold Ponsford (19 October 1900 – 6 April 1991) was an Australian cricketer. Usually playing as an opening batsman, he formed a successful and long-lived partnership opening the batting for Victoria and Australia with Bill Woodfull, his friend and state and national captain. Ponsford is the only player to twice break the world record for the highest individual score in first-class cricket; Ponsford and Brian Lara are the only cricketers to twice score 400 runs in an innings. Ponsford holds the Australian record for a partnership in Test cricket, set in 1934 in combination with Don Bradman (451 for 2nd wicket)—the man who broke many of Ponsford's other individual records. In fact, he along with Bradman set the record for the highest partnership ever for any wicket in Test cricket history when playing on away soil (451 runs for the second wicket)\n\nDespite being heavily built, Ponsford was quick on his feet and renowned as one of the finest ever players of spin bowling. His bat, much heavier than the norm and nicknamed \"Big Bertha\", allowed him to drive powerfully and he possessed a strong cut shot. However, critics questioned his ability against fast bowling, and the hostile short-pitched English bowling in the Bodyline series of 1932–33 was a contributing factor in his early retirement from cricket a year and a half later. Ponsford also represented his state and country in baseball, and credited the sport with improving his cricketing skills.\n\nPonsford was a shy and taciturn man. After retiring from cricket, he went to some lengths to avoid interaction with the public. He spent over three decades working for the Melbourne Cricket Club, where he had some responsibility for the operations of the Melbourne Cricket Ground (MCG), the scene of many of his great performances with the bat. In 1981 the Western Stand at the MCG was renamed the WH Ponsford Stand in his honour. This stand was demolished in 2003 as part of the redevelopment of the ground for the 2006 Commonwealth Games, but its replacement was also named the WH Ponsford Stand. At the completion of the stadium redevelopment in 2005, a statue of Ponsford was installed outside the pavilion gates. In recognition of his contributions as a player, Ponsford was one of the ten initial inductees into the Australian Cricket Hall of Fame.\n\nThe son of William and Elizabeth (née Best) Ponsford, Bill Ponsford was born in the Melbourne suburb of Fitzroy North on 19 October 1900. His father was a postman whose family had emigrated from Devon, England, to Bendigo, Victoria, to work in the mines during the 1850s gold rush. His mother was also born in the goldfields, at Guildford, before moving to Melbourne with her father, a Crown Lands bailiff. Ponsford grew up on Newry St in Fitzroy North, and attended the nearby Alfred Crescent School, which stood beside the Edinburgh Gardens.\n\nPonsford learnt the rudiments of cricket from his uncle Cuthbert Best—a former club player for Fitzroy. He had the best batting and bowling averages for his school team in 1913, 1914 and 1915 and eventually rose to the captaincy. His local grade club, Fitzroy, awarded Ponsford a medallion—presented by the local mayor—for being his school's outstanding cricketer in the 1913–14 and 1914–15 seasons. The medallion was awarded along with an honorary membership of the club, and Ponsford trained enthusiastically, running from school to the nearby Brunswick Street Oval in the Edinburgh Gardens to practise in the nets. Les Cody, the general secretary of Fitzroy Cricket Club and a first-class cricketer with New South Wales and Victoria, was Ponsford's first cricketing role model.\n\nIn December 1914, Ponsford completed his schooling and earned a qualifying certificate, which allowed him to continue his education at a high school should he wish. He instead chose to attend a private training college, Hassett's, to study for the Bank Clerk's exam. Ponsford passed the exam and commenced employment with the State Savings Bank at the Elizabeth Street head office in early 1916. In May 1916, the Ponsford family moved to Orrong Rd in Elsternwick, a wealthier part of Melbourne. Ponsford played with Fitzroy in a minor league for the remainder of the 1915–16 season, but under the geographical \"zoning\" rules in place for club cricket, he was required to transfer to St Kilda Cricket Club in the following season.\n\nThe First World War and the creation of the First Australian Imperial Force led to a significant shortage of players available for cricket. As a result, Ponsford was called up to make his first-grade debut for St Kilda during the 1916–17 season, just one week before his sixteenth birthday. This match was against his old club Fitzroy, and was played at the familiar Brunswick Street Oval. The young Ponsford's shot-making lacked power, and after making twelve singles, he was bowled. He played ten matches in his first season with the St Kilda First XI and averaged 9.30 runs per innings. By the 1918–19 season, Ponsford topped the club batting averages with an average of 33. He also topped the bowling averages, taking 10 wickets at an average of 16.50 runs per wicket with his leg spin.\n\nDespite failing to score a century for his club side (something he did not rectify until the 1923–24 season), Ponsford was called up to represent Victoria against the visiting England team in February 1921—his first-class cricket debut. His selection was controversial; the leading personality in Victorian cricket and national captain, \"The Big Ship\" Warwick Armstrong, had been dropped. Armstrong's omission sparked a series of angry public meetings protesting against the perceived persecution of Armstrong by administrators. While making his way to the Melbourne Cricket Ground (MCG) for the match, Ponsford had to walk through demonstrators carrying placards that denounced his selection at the expense of Armstrong. Without Armstrong, the Victorians were comfortably beaten by Johnny Douglas's English team by seven wickets. Batting down the order, Ponsford made six in the first innings and 19 in the second innings. Later that month, Ponsford made his maiden first-class century, scoring 162 against Tasmania at the NTCA Ground in Launceston, despite batting low in the order, at number eight.\n\nPonsford was named captain of a Victorian side made of up of promising youngsters, to play against Tasmania at the MCG on 2–5 February 1923. In this, only his third first-class match, Ponsford broke the world record for the highest individual innings score at that level on the final day of the match, scoring 429 runs and batting for nearly eight hours. Along the way, he broke Armstrong's record for the highest score for Victoria (250), before surpassing former England captain Archie MacLaren's world record individual score of 424. The team score of 1,059 was also a new record for a first-class innings—an impromptu paint job was needed to show the score on a board that was not designed to display a four-figure total.\n\nThe Governor General of Australia, Lord Forster, visited the dressing rooms after the day's play to congratulate Ponsford personally. Cables from around the world applauded the new record-holder, including one from Frank Woolley, whose 305* was the previous highest score against Tasmania. The former world record holder MacLaren was not so forthcoming. MacLaren thought that the two teams were both short of first-class standard and therefore the record should not be recognised. However, an agreement made in 1908 confirmed that matches against Tasmania should be categorised as first-class matches. An exchange of letters between MacLaren and the Victorian Cricket Association, and speculation over possible political motives followed in the popular press, but the famous \"Wisden Cricketers' Almanack\" recognised and published Ponsford's score as the record.\n\nSelected for his first Sheffield Shield match, against South Australia three weeks after his record-breaking innings, Ponsford—still batting down the order, at number five—made 108. The South Australian (and former Australian) captain Clem Hill watched Ponsford bat and commented, \"[Ponsford] is young and full of promise; in fact, since Jim Mackay, the brilliant New South Welshman, I think he is the best.\" In 1923–24 Ponsford continued to score at a heavy rate. Against Queensland in December, he made 248 and shared in a partnership of 456 runs with Edgar Mayne—the highest first wicket partnership by an Australian pair to this day. Later that season, he scored a pair of centuries against arch-rivals New South Wales, accumulating 110 in each innings.\n\nPonsford broke into international cricket in the 1924–25 season. After scoring 166 for Victoria against South Australia, and 81 for an Australian XI against the touring English team, he was selected for the first Test against England at the Sydney Cricket Ground (SCG). Batting at number three, Ponsford joined his captain Herbie Collins at the wicket after the dismissal of opening batsman Warren Bardsley. Although Ponsford initially struggled against the \"baffling\" swing bowling of Maurice Tate, the experienced Collins was confident enough to farm the strike during Tate's initial spell and Ponsford went on to make a century (110) on his Test debut. Ponsford later said \"I was most grateful for Herbie taking [Tate's bowling] until I was settled in. I doubt I would have scored a century but for his selfless approach.\" He scored 128 in the second Test at Melbourne; thereby becoming the first batsman to score centuries in his first two Tests. Ponsford played in all five Tests of the series, scoring 468 runs at an average of 46.80.\n\nThere were no international visitors to Australia in the 1925–26 season, so Ponsford was able to play a full season for Victoria. He scored 701 runs at an average of 63.72, including three centuries, making him the fourth highest runscorer for the season. At the end of the season, Ponsford was chosen for the Australian team to tour England in 1926. He was one of the younger players in the squad; 9 of the 15 players were over the age of 36. He made a good start to the tour, scoring a century (110*) in his first innings at Lord's against the Marylebone Cricket Club in May. Unfortunately for Ponsford, tonsillitis caused him to miss three weeks of cricket in June and he was not chosen for the first three Tests of the English summer. He returned for the fourth and fifth Tests. The fifth Test was the only match that saw a result—an English victory—which meant that the hosts won the series and the Ashes one Test to nil. For the tour, Ponsford made 901 runs at an average of 40.95, including three centuries. \"Wisden\" described Ponsford's performances for the season as \"something of a disappointment\" but noted that \"he batted well enough on occasion to demonstrate his undoubted abilities\".\n\nIn the season following his return to Australia, Ponsford continued to make large scores. He started the season by hitting 214 runs (out of a Victoria team total of 315) against South Australia at the Adelaide Oval and followed this with 151 at the MCG against Queensland. In his next match, against New South Wales, Ponsford again rewrote the record books. Ponsford scored 352 runs, 334 of them in a single day, and helped Victoria to an innings total of 1,107, which remains the highest team total in first-class cricket, breaking Victoria's own record set four years earlier. After Ponsford played the ball back on to his stumps to be dismissed bowled, he then turned to look at his broken wicket and famously said, \"Cripes, I am unlucky.\" For the season, Ponsford went on to score 1,229 runs at an average of 122.90, including six centuries and two half-centuries from only ten innings.\n\nIn the 1927–28 season, Ponsford continued where he had left off at the end of the previous summer. Ponsford topped the aggregate and the averages for the season, scoring 1,217 runs at an average of 152.12. In December 1927, he improved on his own first-class world record score, hitting 437 against Queensland; later that month he scored 202 and 38 against New South Wales and he then added another 336 against South Australia over the New Year. He had scored 1,013 runs in the space of four innings. This feat was part of a sequence in which he scored a century in a record ten consecutive first-class matches from December 1926 to December 1927. In January 1928 the \"Daily News\" in London described Ponsford as \"the most remarkable and the most heart-breaking scoring-machine ever invented\". Ponsford toured New Zealand with an Australian squad in 1928. In the six first-class matches scheduled, he scored 452 at an average of 56.50, second only to his opening partner Bill Woodfull in both average and aggregate. In the 1929–30 domestic season, Ponsford scored 729 runs at an average of 45.56, including three centuries, to finish fourth in the season aggregates.\n\nA strong England team—captained by Percy Chapman and including Jack Hobbs, Herbert Sutcliffe, Wally Hammond and Harold Larwood—toured Australia in 1928–29. Ponsford's form was good in the lead up to the Tests; he scored 60 not out for Victoria against the tourists, and added 275* against South Australia. Before the Test series started, Ponsford had declared in a column in the \"Herald\" that Harold Larwood's \"pace through the air is not all that fast for a fast bowler\", with the qualification that \"he makes great pace off the pitch\". Larwood dismissed him for scores of two and six in the first Test, and fractured a bone in Ponsford's hand in the second. The injury sidelined Ponsford for the remainder of the Test series.\nPonsford travelled to England for a second time, with the 1930 Australian team. In a wet summer, Australia won the series two Tests to one, recovering The Ashes. For the second time in as many trips to England, Ponsford fell ill—gastritis caused him to miss the third Test at Headingley Stadium. Despite this setback, Ponsford scored 330 runs in the Tests at an average of 55.00. \"Wisden\" wrote, \"Ponsford had a much better season—especially in the Test matches—than four years previously. ... In helping his captain to wear down England's bowling he accomplished great work and, even if he was seldom really attractive to watch, there could be no question about his skill and how difficult he was to get out.\" The outstanding performer of the tour was the young Don Bradman, who scored 974 runs in the Test matches—this remains a world record for the most runs scored in a Test series. Ponsford played a part in Bradman's success; \"Wisden\" stated that \"it is only fair to say that on more than one occasion [Bradman's] task was rendered the easier by the skilful manner in which Woodfull and Ponsford, by batting of different description, had taken the sting out of the England bowling.\"\n\nIn 1930–31, the West Indies sent their first-ever touring team to Australia for a five Test series. Ponsford was paired with a new partner, Archie Jackson; Woodfull chose to bat down the order to allow the young New South Welshman to open the batting. The change had little effect on Ponsford, who scored 467 runs at an average of 77.83 against the Caribbean tourists. Ponsford and Jackson started the Test series well, their 172 run partnership in the second innings taking Australia to a 10-wicket victory in the first Test. Ponsford finished just short of his century, unbeaten on 92. Before walking out to bat, Jackson had said to Ponsford, \"I see the skipper padded up. We won't give him a hit!\" Jackson failed in the second Test at the SCG, but Ponsford went on to score his highest Test score to date, 183, before being bowled by Tommy Scott. Another century (109) in the third Test was part of a 229 run partnership with Bradman, who went on to score 223. Ponsford was reunited with Woodfull as his opening partner for the remaining Tests after Jackson, ill and struggling for form, was omitted. The West Indies had a famous victory in the fifth Test, but lost the series 4–1.\n\nPonsford had less success against the South Africans during their tour of Australia in 1931–32. While the Australians took a clean sweep of the Test 5–0, Ponsford's highest score in the four Tests he played was 34; he totalled 97 runs at an average of 19.40. It was Bradman who dominated with the bat for Australia, scoring four centuries and 806 runs overall.\n\nIn a response to the record-breaking feats of Don Bradman, the English team that toured Australia in 1932–33—led by Douglas Jardine—adopted a tactic of fast, short pitched bowling directed at the body, later known as \"Bodyline\". While Bodyline sought to curb Bradman, it was used against all the Australian batsmen, including Ponsford. After being bowled twice behind his legs—by Larwood for 32 in the first innings and for two in the second innings by Bill Voce—in the first Test at Sydney, Ponsford was omitted from the team for the second Test at Melbourne. Ponsford returned for the third Test in Adelaide, batting down the order. The Test was controversial and highly acrimonious; several Australian batsmen—including Woodfull and Bert Oldfield—were hit on the body and head from the English fast bowling. Ponsford was hit on several occasions during his innings of 85; he chose to turn his torso and take the rising balls on his body—especially on his left shoulder blade and backside—rather than risk a catch to the leg side fielders. When Ponsford returned to the dressing room after his dismissal, his teammates were amazed by the mass of bruises that covered his back and shoulders. Ponsford remarked to Bill O'Reilly, \"I wouldn't mind having a couple more if I could get a hundred.\"\n\nAfter failing in the fourth Test, Ponsford was again dropped. The hostile barrage of short-pitched bowling had a major impact on Ponsford's technique and career. In the three Tests that Ponsford played during the Bodyline series, he estimated he was hit around fifty times. During the series Ponsford developed a habit of turning his back on the rising ball and, if hit, glowering at the affected bowler. While the manager of the England team, Pelham Warner, thought that Ponsford \"met the fast-leg theory in plucky and able style\", this behaviour was criticised by the British cricket writer, R. C. Robertson-Glasgow. Bradman thought that the Bodyline tactics hastened Ponsford's eventual retirement.\n\nAfter the disappointments of the Bodyline series, Ponsford returned to domestic cricket in 1933–34, scoring 606 runs at an average of 50.50. At the end of the domestic season, he was selected for his third tour of England with the Australian team in 1934. Illness again interrupted Ponsford's English summer, causing him to miss the second Test at Lord's. In the final two Tests of the series, the two record breakers—Ponsford and Bradman—combined in two remarkable partnerships.\n\nIn the fourth Test at Headingley, Bradman joined Ponsford at the fall of the third wicket when the Australians had scored only 39 runs (39/3). By the time Ponsford was dismissed hit wicket for 181, Australia were 427/4; the partnership had yielded 388 runs. Bradman went on to make 304. The partnership was the highest ever in Test cricket at the time and as of 2009 is still the highest fourth wicket partnership for Australia. \"Wisden\" said of Ponsford's innings \"... he hit the ball hard and placed it well when scoring in front of the wicket. Moreover, his defence was rock-like in its steadiness and accuracy.\"\n\nWith the series locked at 1–1, the fifth and deciding Test at The Oval saw an even larger partnership between Bradman and Ponsford. The pair added 451 runs for the second wicket in an Australian total of 701 runs. Bradman scored 244 and Ponsford—again dismissed hit wicket—his highest Test score, 266. This partnership remained the highest in Tests until 1991 and the highest for the second wicket until 1997. As of 2009, it remains the highest ever in Australian Test history. Again \"Wisden\" was complimentary, saying \"It would be hard to speak in too high terms of praise of the magnificent displays of batting given by Ponsford and Bradman\" but noted that \"Before Bradman joined him Ponsford had shown an inclination to draw away from the bowling of Bowes.\"\n\nIn the four Tests that Ponsford for the English summer, he made 569 runs at an average of 94.83. His performance saw him named as one of the five Wisden Cricketers of the Year in 1935. \n\nUpon their return to Australia, a testimonial match was arranged on behalf of the two Victorian opening batsmen, Woodfull and Ponsford. Woodfull—the senior member of the partnership—had announced his retirement from first-class cricket before returning from England and the press had speculated that Ponsford would succeed him as captain of Victoria. Walking out to bat in the match, the pair were cheered by the crowd to the strains of \"For He's a Jolly Good Fellow\". Together, the two Bills made another century partnership, before Ponsford was dismissed for 83; Woodfull went on to make a century.\n\nDuring the match, to the surprise of the public, the press and his teammates, Ponsford announced his retirement from first-class cricket at the relatively young age of 34. His announcement remarked upon the changing atmosphere in high level cricket and touched on the effects of Bodyline. Woodfull remarked that Ponsford's retirement was premature, while teammate and journalist Jack Fingleton believed that the task of maintaining such high standards had affected Ponsford's nervous energy: \"At the age of 34 he felt that he never wanted to see a bat or a cricket game again.\" Arthur Mailey suspected that Ponsford's sensitivity to criticism, especially from the media, was a key factor behind the early retirement. The memory of being omitted from the Australian side twice during the Bodyline series also stung Ponsford sorely. Ponsford continued playing for the Melbourne Cricket Club until 1939, but never represented his state or country again.\n\nPonsford began his working life at the State Savings Bank. On his return from England in 1926, the bank advised him that they might not tolerate so much leave for cricket in the future. Ponsford received a lucrative offer to play for Blackpool Cricket Club, which he was inclined to accept. This news was received with dismay by Australian fans, who had earlier seen players such as Ted McDonald leave Australia and accept contracts in the professional English leagues. To keep Ponsford in Melbourne, \"The Herald\"—a local newspaper—employed him on the basis that he would remain available for all representative cricket. The new role included writing articles for the paper.\n\nIn 1932, at the end of his five-year contract with the newspaper, Ponsford successfully applied for a position on the staff of the Melbourne Cricket Club. He was appointed to an unspecified office job working for the club secretary Hugh Trumble, which required him to transfer his cricket and baseball allegiances from St Kilda to Melbourne. \"The Herald\" unsuccessfully tried to retain his services, and Keith Murdoch—the Editor-in-Chief of the Herald, and later, the father of Rupert Murdoch—visited the Ponsford home to lobby against the move. Ponsford's new role included managing the staffing arrangements and crowd control at the Melbourne Cricket Ground for Australian rules football and cricket matches. In 1956, following the retirement of Vernon Ransford, Ponsford unsuccessfully applied for the position of club secretary, effectively its chief executive officer and one of the most prestigious positions in Australian cricket. However, in the event recently retired Test cricketer Ian Johnson was appointed to the position. Ponsford remained with the club until his retirement in June 1969.\n\nPonsford met Vera Neill at his local Methodist church; the pair married in 1924 and settled in the Melbourne suburb of Caulfield South. They had two sons, Bill Jr. and Geoff. Ponsford became a Freemason in 1922 and continued in the movement until 1985, retiring with the rank of Master Mason. During the Second World War, Ponsford attempted to volunteer with the Royal Australian Air Force, but was rejected on account of his colour blindness. In 1978, four years after the death of his wife, Ponsford moved in with his son, Geoff, at Woodend in rural Victoria, and was an active lawn bowler. An infection after an operation in 1988 saw Ponsford admitted to a nursing home in nearby Kyneton. He died there on 6 April 1991; at the time he was Australia's oldest living Test cricketer.\n\nBaseball was a reasonably popular sport in Australia in the early 20th century and Ponsford alternated between cricket and baseball throughout his sporting life. At the time, baseball was generally played in Australia during the winter months, as many of the leading players were enthusiastic cricketers who viewed the sport as a means of improving their fielding skills. As with cricket, Ponsford started his baseball career at Alfred Crescent School, where his coach was the former Victorian player Charles Landsdown. As a junior Ponsford played shortstop, later as a senior for the Fitzroy Baseball Club he converted to catching.\nPonsford improved rapidly and by 1913 he was included in the Victorian schoolboys side for a tournament in Adelaide. He was again selected in the following year—now as a catcher—representing his state at the first national schoolboys championship in Sydney. The tournament coincided with a visit to Australia by two professional major league teams from the United States—the Chicago White Sox and the New York Giants. The manager of the Giants, John \"Mugsy\" McGraw, watched part of the tournament; the Ponsford family claim that McGraw was so impressed with Ponsford's skills that he later spoke to Ponsford's parents about the possibility of Bill playing in the United States.\n\nIn 1919, Ponsford was selected for Victoria's baseball team, alongside future Test cricket teammate Jack Ryder. In 1923, \"The Sporting Globe\" claimed that Ponsford was \"... the best batter of the season. ... Indeed, as an all-round man, it is doubtful if he has a superior in the state.\" In 1925, Ponsford captained the Victorian team and was selected as centre fielder in an Australian representative team that played three matches against an outfit from the United States Pacific Fleet, which had docked in Melbourne. Over the three matches, won by the Australians, Ponsford made five safe hits, gained eight bases and his batting average was .357. Ponsford's next match against American opposition was against a team from Stanford University that visited Australia in 1927. Ponsford's Victorian team defeated Stanford 5–3; it was the visitors' only loss on the tour.\n\nPonsford simultaneously retired from baseball and cricket in 1934. In his newspaper column, he said that he liked both sports equally. He felt that baseball gave a player more opportunities to perform: \"In cricket you may have the bad luck to get out early; which often means a blank afternoon. It is not so with baseball; you are in the game all the time.\" Joe Clark, the author of \"History of Australian Baseball\", said \"Ponsford is considered by many to be the best baseballer of his time in Australia.\" The official program for the 1952 Claxton Shield—held in Perth—made a similar claim.\n\nIn first-class cricket, Ponsford scored 13,819 runs at an average of 65.18, as of 2009 the fifth highest complete career average of any player, worldwide. Ponsford was not satisfied with merely making centuries; he strove to score 200 and more. Arriving in big cricket a few years before Bradman, for a time Ponsford was considered the heaviest scorer in cricket history. Jack Fingleton claimed that \"The true perspective of Ponsford's deeds had barely dawned on the game when Bradman ruthlessly thrust him from public thought ...\"\n\nApart from Brian Lara, Ponsford is the only man to twice score 400 runs in a first-class innings and along with Bradman and Wally Hammond, he remains one of only three men to have scored four triple-centuries. His 437 against Queensland is, as at 2009, still the fifth highest score in first-class cricket.\n\nPonsford was known for batting in partnerships, sharing in five that amassed over 375 runs each. Ponsford and his long-time partner, Woodfull, were known as \"the two Bills\", \"Willy Wo and Willy Po\" and \"Mutt and Jeff\" amongst other names. Together, the pair made 23 century partnerships; 12 of these exceeded 150 runs. Ponsford's other prolific partnership was with Bradman. In two Tests in 1934, the pair set records that still stand today:\nCricket writer Ray Robinson said of the pair batting together, \"[Ponsford] was the only one who could play in Bradman's company and make it a duet.\"\n\nFor services to cricket, Ponsford was made a Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) in the 1982 New Year Honours announced on 31 December 1981. Ponsford was one of the ten inaugural inductees when the Australian Cricket Hall of Fame was launched in 1996. In 2000, Ponsford and Arthur Morris were chosen to open the batting for the Australian Cricket Board's Team of the Century, a theoretical selection of the best team of Australian cricketers of the 20th century. In 2001, Ponsford was selected in the Melbourne Cricket Club Team of the Century.\n\nIn 1986 the Western Stand of the Melbourne Cricket Ground was renamed the \"Ponsford Stand\". Ponsford was described by his son as being \"tickled pink\" by the honour, but that he would only agree to the renaming if he was not required to participate in any public appearance or media interview. As part of the ongoing modernisation of the MCG the Ponsford Stand was torn down; the new stand was completed in 2004 and again named in his honour. A statue of the cricketer was installed outside the Ponsford Stand in 1995—one of a series in place around the stadium commemorating Australia's sporting heroes.\n\nAnswering to the nickname of \"Puddin'\", Ponsford was a thickset man, weighing in at around during his playing career. Despite this, he was known for his quick footwork, and was regarded as an excellent player of spin bowling. Ponsford was noted for his ability to maintain intense levels of concentration for extended periods. He possessed a strong cut shot and he drove through mid off powerfully, although critics noted that his backlift was not completely straight. He had a tendency to shuffle too far to the off; this exposed his leg stump and he was bowled behind his legs on six occasions in Tests against England. However, Ray Robinson felt that \"no bowler could have got a marble, much less a [cricket] ball between his bat and his left leg.\"\n\nFingleton wrote, \"He crouched a little at the crease ... he tapped the ground impatiently with his bat while awaiting the ball, and his feet were so eager to be on the move that they began an impulsive move forward just before the ball was bowled. This was the shuffle that sometimes took him across the pitch against a fast bowler; but, that aside, his footwork was perfection. I never saw a better forcer of the ball to the on-side, and for this stroke his body moved beautifully into position.\" However, Ponsford was not a stylish batsman. Bradman said \"There were more beautiful players, but for absolute efficiency and results where can one turn to equal [Ponsford]?\" Robinson described Ponsford as the \"founder of total batting, the first to make a habit of regarding 100 as merely the opening battle in a campaign for a larger triumph.\" The New South Wales and Australian bowler Arthur Mailey later said that \"I don't think it was the rungetting Ponny enjoyed so much as the bowlers' discomfort, especially when those bowlers came from New South Wales.\"\n\nPonsford used a heavy bat——nicknamed \"Big Bertha\". Opposition players sometimes joked that Ponsford's bat was larger than allowed under the laws of cricket and indeed in one match in Sydney, it was found to be slightly larger than permitted—the result of the bat spreading from his powerful hitting. Throughout his innings, Ponsford would pull his cap further to the left. Robinson claimed that \"if you saw the peak at a rakish angle towards his left ear you could tell he was heading for his second hundred\". When volunteering for service with the Royal Australian Air Force, Ponsford discovered he possessed abnormal colour vision, unable to distinguish red from green. The examining doctor was astonished and asked Ponsford, \"What colour did [the ball] look to you after it was worn?\" Ponsford replied, \"I never noticed its colour, only its size.\" A later study identified Ponsford's specific colour vision as protanopia, a form of dichromacy in which red appears dark. Ponsford did not enjoy batting on rain-affected wickets. When on tour his teammates did not ask if it had rained last night, merely \"Did Ponny wake during the night?\"—legend had it that even the slightest trickle would wake him and have him anguishing over having to bat on the \"sticky\" in the morning.\n\nPonsford was a shy person, on the field and off. Robinson wrote that Ponsford \"was so reserved that you had to know him for three years or the duration of a Test tour before his reticence relaxed.\" Similarly, when photographed Ponsford would hang his head so his cap would cover most of his face. This shyness intensified after his retirement. He would often walk along laneways to his work at the MCC, rather than be recognised on the way to the train station. While on the train, he would cover his face with the newspaper. At work, he disliked interaction with the public and would direct staff to advise visitors that he was not in, despite often being clearly in view. Bill O'Reilly said of Ponsford, \"He spoke rarely and even then only if he could improve on silence.\" Nonetheless he was popular with his teammates and was said to have a droll sense of humour.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2264096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264096", "title": "Picador (imprint)", "text": "Picador (imprint)\n\nPicador is an imprint of Pan Macmillan in the United Kingdom and Australia and of Macmillan Publishing in the United States. Both companies are owned by Georg von Holtzbrinck Publishing Group.\n\nPicador was launched in the UK in 1972 with the aim of publishing outstanding international writing in paperback. In 1990, Picador started publishing its own hardcovers.\n\nIn the summer of 2018, the US branch of Picador announced that starting in April 2019 it would no longer publish original titles and would focus exclusively on reprinting as trade paperbacks literary works originated by editors elsewhere at Macmillan.\n\nPicador authors have included Jonathan Franzen, Michael Chabon, Marilynne Robinson, Angela Carter, Thomas Pynchon, Raj Patel, Jon Ronson, Alan Hollinghurst, Graham Swift, John Banville, Patrick McCabe, Tim Winton, Mick Jackson, Colm Toibin, Trezza Azzopardi, Edward St Aubyn, Emma Donoghue, Jim Crace, Sunjeev Sahota, Hanya Yanagihara, Pankaj Mishra, Bret Easton Ellis and Sir Salman Rushdie.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2264109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264109", "title": "Force multiplication", "text": "Force multiplication\n\nIn military science, force multiplication or a force multiplier refers to a factor or a combination of factors that gives personnel or weapons (or other hardware) the ability to accomplish greater feats than without it. The expected size increase required to have the same effectiveness without that advantage is the \"multiplication factor\". For example, if a certain technology like GPS enables a force to accomplish the same results of a force five times as large but without GPS, then the multiplier is five. Such estimates are used to justify an investment cost for force multipliers.\n\nBefore the era of modern electronic communications, the Mongols used swarming tactics coordinated by effective military communications using flags, horns, and couriers. In the Middle Ages, archer's stakes were driven into the ground for protection from mounted men-at-arms. This is an example of \"combined arms\", another ancient method of force multiplication.\n\nSome common force multipliers are:\n\nSome factors may influence one another, e.g. enhanced technology improving morale or geographical features allowing deception.\n\nIn the First World War, the Germans experimented with what were called \"storm tactics\", where a small group of highly trained soldiers (stormtroopers) would open a salient through which much larger forces could penetrate. This met with only limited success, breaking through the first lines of defence but lacking the staying power to break the opposing forces entirely while the 1939 Blitzkrieg, which broke through with coordinated mechanized ground forces with aircraft in close support, was vastly more effective.\n\nTowards the end of World War II, the German army introduced kampfgruppe combat formations that were composed of whatever units happened to be available. Though poor quality ones generally constituted the major part of them, they often performed successfully because of their high degree of flexibility and adaptability. Mission-type tactics, as opposed to extremely specific directives that give no discretion to the junior commander, are widely used by modern militaries now due to their force multiplication. Originating from German concepts of \"Auftragstaktik\", these tactics may be developing even more rapidly in the concept of network-centric warfare (NCW) where subordinate commanders receive information not only from their own commanders, but from adjacent units.\n\nA different paradigm was one of the results of the theories of John Boyd, the \"high-low mix\" in which a large number of less expensive aircraft, coupled with a small number of extremely capable \"silver bullet\" aircraft, had the effect of a much larger force. Boyd's concept of quick action is based on the repeated application of the \"Boyd loop\", consisting of the steps\nBoyd's concept is also known as the OODA Loop, and is a description of the decision-making process that Boyd contended applies to business, sports, law enforcement and military operations. Boyd's doctrine is widely taught in the American military, and one of the aims of network centric warfare is to \"get inside his OODA loop\"—that is, to go from observation to action before the enemy can get past orientation, preventing him from ever being able to make an effective decision or put it into action. Small unit leadership is critical to this, and NCW's ability to disseminate information to small unit leaders enables such tactics.\n\nNetwork-centric warfare can provide additional information and can help prevent friendly fire, but also allows \"swarm tactics\" \nand the seizing of opportunities by subordinate forces. These are a realization of Boyd's theories. defines \" \"a swarming case is any historical example in which the scheme of maneuver involves the convergent attack of five (or more) semiautonomous (or autonomous) units on a targeted force in some particular place. \"Convergent\" implies an attack from most of the points on the compass.\"\n\nAnother version of \"swarming\" is evident in air-to-ground attack formations in which the attack aircraft do not approach from one direction, at one time, or at the same altitude, but schedule the attacks so each one requires a Boyd-style OODA iteration to deal with a new threat. Replacement training units (RTU) were \"finishing schools\" for pilots that needed to know not just the school solution, but the actual tactics being used in Vietnam. Referring to close air support, \"In the RTU, new pilots learned the rules of the road for working with a Forward air controller (FAC). The hardest part was finding the small aircraft as it circled over the target area. The fast-moving fighters used directional finding/steering equipment to get close enough to the slow, low FAC until someone in the flight could get an eyeball on him—a tally-ho. Once the FAC was in sight, he would give the fighters a target briefing—type of target, elevation, attack heading, location of friendlies, enemy defensive fire, best egress heading if hit by enemy fire, and other pertinent data. Usually the fighters would set up a circle, called a wheel or \"wagon wheel\", over the FAC, and wait for him to mark the target. Once the\ntarget was marked, the flight leader would attack first.\n\nNapoleon is well known for his comment \"The moral is to the physical as three to one.\" Former United States Secretary of State and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Colin Powell has said: \"Perpetual optimism is a force multiplier.\" Morale, training, and ethos have long been known to result in disproportionate effects on the battlefield.\n\nPsychological warfare can target the morale, politics, and values of enemy soldiers and their supporters to effectively neutralize them in a conflict.\n\nTorture of select individuals in enemy populations can turn them into social disease vectors; effectively weaponizing 'shell-shock' which may create long-lasting effects in the target population that outlast physical injuries.\n\nRanged weapons that hit their target can be far more effective than those that miss. That is why rifled muskets for infantry and rangefinders for artillery became commonplace in the 19th century.\n\nTwo new weapons of World War I, barbed wire and the machine gun, multiplied defensive forces, leading to the stalemate of trench warfare.\n\nAircraft Carriers such as USS Gerald R. Ford can carry more than 75 aircraft with fuel and ammunition for all tasks that an aircraft carrier should need like air to air, air to naval and air to ground missions. When deployed, aircraft carriers are an massive force multiplier that can turn any engagement in favour of those that have the aircraft carrier. Carriers can hold different type of aircraft to different usage meaning the force multiplier can vary depending on the specific task at hand\n\nAirborne tanker aircraft, such as the Boeing KC-135 are a very significant force multiplier. They can carry fuel so bomber and fighter aircraft can take off loaded with extra weapons instead of full fuel tanks. The tankers also increase the range and time loitering within or near the target areas by off-loading fuel when it is needed. Tankers can also be used to rapidly deploy fighters, bombers, SIGNET, Airborne Command Post, and cargo aircraft from the United States to the areas where they are needed. The force multiplier of a KC-135R can be anywhere from 1.5 to as much as 6 when used near the target area.\n\nAt one extreme, a stealth aircraft like the Northrop Grumman B-2 Spirit strategic bomber can attack a target without needing the large numbers of escort fighter aircraft, electronic-warfare aircraft, Suppression of Enemy Air Defenses, and other supporting aircraft that would be needed were conventional bombers used against the same target.\n\nPrecision-guided munitions (PGM) give an immense multiplication. The Thanh Hoa Bridge in North Vietnam had been only mildly damaged by approximately 800 sorties by aircraft armed with conventional Unguided bombs, but had one of its spans destroyed by a 12-plane mission, of which 8 carried laser-guided bombs. Two small subsequent missions, again with laser-guided bombs, completed the destruction of this target. Precision guided munitions are one example of what has been called the Revolution in Military Affairs. In World War II, British night bombers could hit, at best, an area of a city.\n\nModern PGMs commonly put a bomb within 3–10 meters of its target (see Circular error probable), and most carry an explosive charge significant enough that this uncertainty is effectively voided. See the in Afghanistan, using the technique of Ground-Aided Precision Strike.\n\nFighter aircraft coordinated by an AWACS control aircraft, so that they can approach targets without being revealed by their own radar, and who are assigned to take specific targets so that duplication is avoided, are far more effective than an equivalent number of fighters dependent on their own resources for target acquisition.\n\nIn exercises between the Indian and US air forces, the Indian pilots had an opportunity to operate with AWACS control, and found it extremely effective. India has ordered AWACS aircraft, using Israeli Phalcon electronics on a Russian airframe, and this exercise is part of their preparation. Officer and pilot comments included \"definitely was a force multiplier. Giving you an eye deep beyond you\"... \"We could pick up incoming targets whether aircraft or missiles almost 400 kilometers away. It gives a grand battle coordination in the air\".\n\nThe use of small numbers of specialists to create larger effective forces is another form of multiplication. The basic A Team of US Army Special Forces is a 12-man unit that can train and lead a company-sized unit (100-200 men) of local guerrillas.\n\nDeception can produce the potential effect of a much larger force. The fictitious First United States Army Group (FUSAG) was portrayed to the World War II Germans as the main force for the invasion of Europe. Operation Bodyguard \nsuccessfully gave the impression that FUSAG was to land at the Pas de Calais, convincing the Germans that the real attack at Normandy was a feint. As a result of the successful deception, the Normandy force penetrated deeply, in part, because the Germans held back strategic reserves that they thought would be needed at the Pas de Calais, against what was a nonexistent force. FUSAG's existence was suggested by the use of decoy vehicles that the Allies allowed to be photographed, fictitious radio traffic generated by a small number of specialists, and the Double Cross System. Double Cross referred to turning all surviving German spies in the UK into double agents, who sent back convincing reports that were consistent with the deception programs being conducted by the London Controlling Section.\n\n"}
{"id": "2264110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264110", "title": "Waldegrave School", "text": "Waldegrave School\n\nWaldegrave School is a secondary school with academy status in Twickenham, London, England. It takes girls between the ages of 11 and 16 and has a coeducational sixth form, opened in September 2014. There are four houses and each house is named after prominent women: (Mary) Seacole, (Emmeline) Pankhurst, (George) Elliot and (Rosalind) Franklin.\n\nWaldegrave School converted to academy status in 2012, having previously been part of the Richmond upon Thames LEA. \n\nThe Headteacher is Elizabeth Tongue, who replaced Philippa Nunn in January 2019. Mrs Nunn held the post from 2006 when she succeeded Heather Flint.\n\nWaldegrave was a Beacon School from 1999 and became involved in a Leading Edge Partnership with Grey Court School in 2004. It was also awarded specialist Science College status in September 2004, and continues to specialise in science today. It is the only state-maintained girls' school (ages 11 to 16) in the borough. In 2014 it opened a co-educational 6th form with approximately 140 students in each year.\n\nAs with other schools, latest exam results and related data are published in the Department for Education's national tables.\n\nIn 2010 Waldegrave was named the top state secondary school, without a sixth form, in the country, by The Times Parent Power and again in 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015. This is a survey based on the % of A and A* grades achieved by students. In 2016, it was named Comprehensive School of the year by the Sunday Times Schools Guide in recognition of its consistently good GCSE results and the high standard of results for its first A level cohort.\n\nIn 2008, Waldegrave was reported to have received a higher proportion of fraudulent applications than for other secondary schools in the London Borough of Richmond upon Thames.\n\nWaldegrave School was formed in 1980 by the merger of two girls' schools – Twickenham Girls' School and Kneller Girls' School – on its present-day site. Its name commemorates Frances Lady Waldegrave, a former local resident of Strawberry Hill House.\n\nTwickenham County School for Girls opened in 1909, later known as the all-girls Twickenham County Grammar School or the Cowsheds. With the end of selective grammar education in the borough in 1972, the school became a comprehensive known as Twickenham Girls' School in 1973.\n\nRuth Kirkley (1935 – 21 July 2009), headteacher from 1977, continued as the first headteacher of Waldegrave school until 1991.\n\nThe site of Twickenham Girls' School is now the St Richard Reynolds RC College \n\nKneller Girls' School opened in 1936 at the railway end of the \"Meadway\" site shared with the mirror building, but initially completely segregated, Kneller Boys' School. The building was augmented by huts following the raising of school leaving age to 15 after the Education Act 1944.\n\nThe schools merged as Kneller Secondary Modern School before 1959 when the boys moved to what is now Twickenham Academy in Whitton, and the school reverted to all-girls and its original name. The girls' numbers were increased with the transfer of secondary school age girls from the Stanley Road school. In 1978 the school relocated to the site in \"Fifth Cross Road\".\n(The \"Fifth Cross Road\" site had previously been occupied since 1928 by the Thames Valley Grammar School which became a Sixth Form College in 1973 and had closed in 1977 with the formation of Richmond upon Thames College).\n\nThe former Kneller school site in \"Meadway\" is now a residential estate. \n\n\n\n\n\nAlso appeared in 1989 film \"Shirley Valentine\" starring Pauline Collins\n\nIt was also used in the series \"Goggle-Eyes\" adapted for television by the BBC as a four-episode mini-series, which was broadcast in 1993.\n\nThe school was also featured in a short section of \"Before I go to Sleep\" (2014) starring Nicole Kidman and Colin Firth\n"}
{"id": "2264137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264137", "title": "Language of the birds", "text": "Language of the birds\n\nIn mythology, medieval literature and occultism, the language of the birds is postulated as a mystical, perfect divine language, Adamic language, Enochian, angelic language or a mythical or magical language used by birds to communicate with the initiated.\n\nIn Indo-European religion, the behavior of birds has long been used for the purposes of divination by augurs. According to a suggestion by Walter Burkert, these customs may have their roots in the Paleolithic when, during the Ice Age, early humans looked for carrion by observing scavenging birds.\n\nThere are also examples of contemporary bird-human communication and symbiosis. In North America, ravens have been known to lead wolves (and native hunters) to prey they otherwise would be unable to consume. In Africa, the greater honeyguide is known to guide humans to beehives in the hope that the hive will be incapacitated and opened for them.\n\nDating to the Renaissance, birdsong was the inspiration for some magical engineered languages, in particular musical languages. Whistled languages based on spoken natural languages are also sometimes referred to as the language of the birds. Some language games are also referred to as the language of birds, such as in Oromo and Amharic of Ethiopia.\n\nUkrainian language is known as \"nightingale speech\" amongst its speakers.\n\nIn Norse mythology, the power to understand the language of the birds was a sign of great wisdom. The god Odin had two ravens, called Hugin and Munin, who flew around the world and told Odin what happened among mortal men.\n\nThe legendary king of Sweden Dag the Wise was so wise that he could understand what birds said. He had a tame house sparrow which flew around and brought back news to him. Once, a farmer in Reidgotaland killed Dag's sparrow, which brought on a terrible retribution from the Swedes.\n\nIn the \"Rígsþula\", Konr was able to understand the speech of birds. When Konr was riding through the forest hunting and snaring birds, a crow spoke to him and suggested he would win more if he stopped hunting mere birds and rode to battle against foemen.\n\nThe ability could also be acquired by tasting dragon blood. According to the \"Poetic Edda\" and the \"Völsunga saga\", Sigurd accidentally tasted dragon blood while roasting the heart of Fafnir. This gave him the ability to understand the language of birds, and his life was saved as the birds were discussing Regin's plans to kill Sigurd. Through the same ability Áslaug, Sigurd's daughter, found out the betrothment of her husband Ragnar Lodbrok, to another woman.\nThe 11th century Ramsund carving in Sweden depicts how Sigurd learnt the language of birds, in the \"Poetic Edda\" and the \"Völsunga saga\".\n\nIn an eddic poem loosely connected with the Sigurd tradition which is named \"Helgakviða Hjörvarðssonar\", the reason why a man named Atli once had the ability is not explained. Atli's lord's son Helgi would marry what was presumably Sigurd's aunt, the Valkyrie Sváfa.\n\nAccording to Apollonius Rhodius, the figurehead of Jason's ship, the \"Argo\", was built of oak from the sacred grove at Dodona and could speak the language of birds. Tiresias was also said to have been given the ability to understand the language of the birds by Athena. The language of birds in Greek mythology may be attained by magical means. Democritus, Anaximander, Apollonius of Tyana, Melampus and Aesopus were all said to have understood the birds.\n\nThe 'birds' are also mentioned in Homer's Odyssey : \"“[...] although I am no prophet really, and I do not know much about the meaning of birds. I tell you he will not long be absent from his dear native land, not if chains of iron hold him fast. He will find a way to get back, for he is never at a loss.\"\n\nIn the Quran, Suleiman (Solomon) and David are said to have been taught the language of the birds. Within Sufism, the language of birds is a mystical divine language. \"The Conference of the Birds\" is a mystical poem of 4647 verses by the 12th century Persian poet Attar of Nishapur.\n\nIn the Jerusalem Talmud, Solomon's proverbial wisdom was due to his being granted understanding of the language of birds by God.\n\nIn Egyptian Arabic, hieroglyphic writing is called \"the alphabet of the birds\".\n\nThe concept is also known from many folk tales (including Welsh, Russian, German, Estonian, Greek, Romany), where usually the protagonist is granted the gift of understanding the language of the birds either by some magical transformation, or as a boon by the king of birds. The birds then inform or warn the hero about some danger or hidden treasure. One example is the Russian story The Language of the Birds.\n\nIn Kabbalah, Renaissance magic, and alchemy, the language of the birds was considered a secret and perfect language and the key to perfect knowledge, sometimes also called the \"langue verte\", or green language (Jean Julien Fulcanelli, Heinrich Cornelius Agrippa \"de occulta philosophia\", (Emmanuel-Yves Monin, \"Hieroglyphes Français Et Langue Des Oiseaux)\", \n\nCompare also the rather comical and satirical \"Birds\" of Aristophanes and \"Parliament of Fowls\" by Chaucer.\n\nIn medieval France, the language of the birds (\"la langue des oiseaux\") was a secret language of the Troubadours, connected with the Tarot, allegedly based on puns and symbolism drawn from homophony, e. g. an inn called \"au lion d'or\" (\"the Golden Lion\") is allegedly \"code\" for \"au lit on dort\" \"in the bed one sleeps\".\n\nRené Guénon has written an article about the symbolism of the language of the birds.\n\nChinese writer Pu Songling wrote about \"The Bird Language\" in his anthology \"Strange Tales from a Chinese Studio\".\n\n\"Hiéroglyphes Français Et La Langue Des Oiseaux, Editions du Point d'Eau\" by Emmanuel Yves-Monin is a systematic study on the subject but is only available in French.\n\nThe artificial language zaum of Russian Futurism was described as \"language of the birds\" by Velimir Khlebnikov.\n\nThe children's book author Rafe Martin has written \"The Language of Birds\" as an adaptation of a Russian folk tale; it was made into a children's opera by composer John Kennedy.\n\nMelanesian creole Tok Pisin is sometimes called \"language of the birds\", because the word \"pisin\" has a double meaning (from English words \"pidgin\" and \"pigeon\"). Mian speakers, for example, refer to Tok Pisin as \"wan weng\", literally \"bird language\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2264160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264160", "title": "SQL-92", "text": "SQL-92\n\nSQL-92 was the third revision of the SQL database query language. Unlike SQL-89, it was a major revision of the standard. Aside from a few minor incompatibilities, the SQL-89 standard is forward-compatible with SQL-92.\n\nThe standard specification itself grew about five times compared to SQL-89. Much of it was due to more precise specifications of existing features; the increase due to new features was only by a factor of 1.5–2. Many of the new features had already been implemented by vendors before the new standard was adopted. However, most of the new features were added to the \"intermediate\" and \"full\" tiers of the specification, meaning that conformance with SQL-92 entry level was scarcely any more demanding than conformance with SQL-89.\n\nLater revisions of the standard include (SQL3), , , and .\n\nSignificant new features include:\n\nTwo significant extensions were published after standard (but before the next major iteration.)\n\n"}
{"id": "2264173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264173", "title": "Roads in China", "text": "Roads in China\n\nNot to be confused with Chinese Road in Laotian Civil War\n\nRoads in China may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2264183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264183", "title": "Battle of Vågen", "text": "Battle of Vågen\n\nThe Battle of Vågen (also Battle in the Bay of Bergen, or shortened Battle of Bergen) was a naval battle between a Dutch merchant and treasure fleet and an English flotilla of warships in August 1665 as part of the Second Anglo-Dutch War. The battle took place in Vågen (meaning \"the bay, voe\" in Norwegian), the main port area of neutral Bergen, Norway. Due to a delay in orders the Norwegian commanders took the side of the Dutch, contrary to the secret intentions of the King of Norway and Denmark. The battle ended with the defeat of the English fleet, which retreated, much damaged but without losing any ships. The treasure fleet was relieved by the Dutch home fleet seventeen days later.\n\nThe Dutch merchant fleet consisted of about sixty vessels. Ten of them were Dutch East India Company (VOC) vessels under command of Commodore Pieter de Bitter which were returning from the East Indies. Twice each year the Dutch East India Company sent a Return Fleet back to the Netherlands. This one had departed on Christmas Day 1664 and had at that time the richest cargo ever. It was laden with many luxury goods, typical for the \"rich trade\": spices, including 4,000,000 catty of pepper, 440,000 pounds of clove, 314,000 pounds of nutmeg, 121,600 pounds of mace, and about 500,000 pounds of cinnamon; 18,000 pounds of ebony; 8,690 catty of silk and about 200,000 other pieces of cloth; 2,000 pounds of indigo; 18,151 pearls; 2,933 rubies, 3,084 raw diamonds, and 16,580 pieces of porcelain. The total European market value was about eleven million guilders or three million rigsdaler, more than the total annual revenues of the Danish crown. \n\nIn order to avoid the English fleet controlling the English Channel after its victory in the Battle of Lowestoft, the merchant fleet had sailed north of Scotland in order to reach the Dutch Republic via the North Sea. After having been dispersed by a storm on 29 June, most ships gathered in neutral Bergen harbor for shelter during July to wait for the repair of the Dutch home fleet after its defeat. The first three VOC vessels, the yacht \"Kogge\" (cargo purchase value: 67,972 guilders), the fluyt \"Diemermeer\" (cargo value 272,087 guilders), and \"Jonge Prins\" (cargo value: 438,407 guilders) arrived on 19 July (Julian calendar). On 29 July another seven vessels entered the harbour: \"Walcheren\" (cargo value 346,964 guilders), \"Phoenix\" (cargo value 297,326 guilders), \"Slot Hooningen\" (cargo value 386,122 guilders), \"Brederode\" (cargo value 296,773 guilders), the yacht \"Rijzende Zon\" (cargo value 288,400 guilders), and the fluyts \"Wapen van Hoorn\" (cargo value 300,464 guilders) and \"Amstelland\" (cargo value 282,785 guilders). Not all of the VOC fleet was present: the \"Muskaatboom\" (cargo value: 293,688 guilders) had disappeared in a storm near Madagascar, and the yacht \"Nieuwenhoven\" (cargo value: 77,251 guilders) and the fluyt \"Ooievaar\" (cargo value: 300,246 guilders) had found refuge in Trondheim. Except for \"Diemermeer\" and \"Amstelland\", the Dutch ships were heavily armed; many were specially built company vessels with the dual function of warship and merchantman.\n\nThe English battle fleet was from 4 July present in the North Sea to intercept the squadron of Vice-Admiral Michiel de Ruyter, which was about to arrive from America, having raided the English possessions there. The English fleet learned about the arrival of the first ships of the VOC fleet, already announced by the English ambassador in the Republic, George Downing, from a merchantman from Rostock on 22 July. This caused a heated discussion about which target should have priority. The fleet commander, Lord Sandwich, against the advice of most of his flag officers decided to split the fleet. On 30 July, after a merchantman from Ostend had reported the other VOC ships had also arrived, a small task force was dispatched to Bergen to capture or at least block the convoy. The flotilla under Rear-Admiral Thomas Teddiman first consisted of 22 warships but it was reduced to fourteen when eight ships sailed too westerly, were swept beyond Bergen and could not beat up the wind to the south. Besides the gunships, the fireships \"Bryar\", \"Greyhound\", and \"Martin Gally\" were present. Teddiman reached Bergen at six in the evening of 1 August, and blocked the entry to the bay. The beginning of the English action was inauspicious: Teddiman's flagship \"Revenge\" ran aground that same evening at Cape Nordnes and only with much effort managed to work itself free. The entrance of the bay being only about 400 metres wide, the English could position but seven ships there. These were, from north to south, \"Prudent Mary\", \"Breda\", \"Foresight\", \"Bendish\", \"Happy Return\", \"Sapphire\", and \"Pembroke\". The others pointed their guns at the coastal batteries.\n\nAt Vågen, the fortresses of Bergenhus and Sverresborg guarded the harbor. Representatives from both fleets approached Johan Caspar von Cicignon, commandant of the fortresses, and Claus von Ahlefeldt, commander of the Norwegian forces at Bergen. The Norwegians for now decided to remain out of the dispute. Ahlefeldt had heard rumors of a secret deal between King Charles II of England and King Frederick III of Denmark-Norway, but no concrete orders had arrived. By treaty a force of five warships of any nation might enter the harbour; Ahlefeldt indicated he wouldn't allow anything else.\n\nIn fact a secret, purely oral, agreement had been made a week earlier between the English envoy, Sir Gilbert Talbot, and Frederick III. Denmark-Norway would allow the English fleet to assault the Dutch convoy and the loot would be shared in equal parts. This was despite the official alliance of Frederick with the Dutch. Frederick sent an order to Ahlefeldt that he should protest the English attack, but take no action against it. This order did not reach Bergen in time. The English sent an order to their fleet to postpone their attack until Ahlefeldt had received his orders, but the messenger was intercepted en route by the Dutch. Teddiman had, however, been told that a deal was in the making. Both Charles and Frederick hoped to get the loot for their personal funds, not for their official national treasuries. Charles had instructed Lord Sandwich in a personal secret meeting to arrange for this. Lord Sandwich therefore sent his namesake nephew, the courtier and adventurer Edward Montagu (1635–1665), with Teddiman to ensure everything would proceed according to plan. Teddiman had been ordered to act as quickly and forcefully as possible to avoid an involvement of the main English fleet which would compromise secrecy.\n\nWhen Teddiman sent Montagu to Bergen to coordinate the attack, to his great disappointment the Danish commanders refused to cooperate. At 4:00 AM Montagu returned but was immediately sent back by Teddiman, now to threaten the fortresses with violence should they remain obstinate. Montagu claimed the English fleet had 2000 cannon and 6000 men, a claim which made little impression, as it was obvious he was exaggerating the true size by about three times. He was taken even less seriously when he offered the Order of the Garter in exchange for compliance. When he was again refused, Montagu made a little detour and let his boat row alongside the Dutch fleet to inspect their preparations. The Dutch respected the neutrality of the port, played the Wilhelmus and saluted Montagu three times with white smoke. His vessel saluted back.\n\nMeanwhile, the city was in an uproar as English sailors had entered it to intimidate the population. Many citizens fled. De Bitter hastily called back the Dutch crews, most of them on shore leave in Bergen, by ringing the church bells. As few of them had much fighting experience — and many weren't even Dutch — he raised their spirits by promising three months of extra wages in case of a victory. Such promises were legally binding under Dutch law and the news was met with great enthusiasm. When he ended his speech by asking: \"Do you have the courage to stand up to the enemy or not?\", the men according to the Dutch reports cheered: \"Yes, sir! We'll remain firm until we'll have defeated the enemy and rather die than surrender such rich treasure or ourselves to the English!\"\n\nMost Dutch ships were very deep in the bay; at about 300 metres from the English line De Bitter positioned from north to south the \"Slot Hooningen\", \"Catherina\", his flagship the \"Walcheren\", the \"Gulden Phenix\" and the \"Rijzende Zon\". Thousands of sailors from the lighter ships were sent to reinforce the fortresses.\n\n]\nEarly in the morning the English beat their drums and sounded their trumpets and the Dutch knew hostilities would soon begin. Their crews bared their heads for a short prayer and then hastily manned the guns.\n\nWhen violence erupted at six in the morning of 2 August Old Style, both fleets engaged at merely some hundreds of metres distance of each other. Teddiman decided against using fireships in order not to endanger the precious cargo. Besides he didn't have the weather gage and simply couldn't execute a direct attack. The Dutch had positioned their eight heaviest ships so that they could give broadsides at the English; most smaller guns had been moved to point at the enemy as manoeuvring would be impossible anyway. The English fleet was in a leeward position and thus had a better range, but the English gunners overcompensated for this, and so their shots mostly fell short. Fierce southern winds and rain blew the smoke from the English guns back to the ships, blinding them, and they were unaware the Dutch ships were rarely hit. As Bergen protrudes somewhat into the bay from the north, the most northern English vessels had to shoot just along it to reach the Dutch. An English shot landed in the fortress, killing four people. The commandant responded by firing back at the English fleet. The English fleet which in total possessed about 600 cannon and 2000 men was in itself far superior to the Norwegian arsenal which had only 125 guns and 200-300 men. However the ships facing the Dutch were poorly positioned to answer the Norwegian fire. Besides most English vessels were frigates and unable to take as much damage as the large Dutch merchantmen, while the Dutch actually had some superiority in firepower. Teddiman had hoped Dutch morale would quickly break and made the mistake not to break off action when this didn't happen. After three hours of being mercilessly pounded, the English blocking ships were routed. Their panicked crews cut the anchor ropes, but some ships remained entangled and threatened to capsize because of the weight of the broken masts, so they had to anchor again under fire to cut them off. The English were forced to retreat, to Herdla, at around ten in the morning.\n\nThe English had 421 casualties: 112 dead (among them most of the captains of the blocking ships) and 309 wounded. Andrew Marvell wrote in his long ironic poem about the \"Dutch War\":\n\nThe \"reached\" was a typical sneer from Marvell, alluding to the fact Teddiman hadn't placed his flagship in the blocking line, though it was by far the most powerful ship he could employ.\n\nIn the biography of John Wilmot, 2nd Earl of Rochester the story is told that Rochester, Montagu and George Windham, three young noblemen, had had a strong premonition of their death. They made a pact that whoever should perish first would appear to the other in spirit form. Late in the battle, George suddenly began to shake with fear. Edward embraced him for consolation and then both were slain by the same cannonball.\n\nThe Dutch convoy suffered some damage to their ships, especially the \"Catherina\", a Mediterranean fleet vessel, and about 25 dead and seventy wounded. Eight men died in the fortress, and another ten died in the city.\n\n\"The diary writer from Bergen, Michel Hofnagel, who lived at the time [of the battle] tells about the following: 'In the city three citizens, three women, two farmers and two animals were killed and three or four wounded. On \"skansene\" seven [were] killed and twenty six wounded.'\", according to Bjørn Arvid Bagge, University Librarian and author of the book, \"Storpolitikk og intriger\" (2012).\n\nThe orders from Denmark reached Ahlefeldt six days later, on 8 August. With the Dutch merchant vessels still in Bergen, Ahlefeldt travelled to the English fleet at Herdla the next day to try to repair the damage, offering them a chance to attack again without interference from the fortress. The offer was rejected however as Teddiman knew he couldn't be ready in time before the actions of the main fleets had decided the outcome of the entire enterprise. Also Von Ahlefeldt refused to attack the Dutch himself. In the days after the battle the Dutch had strongly fortified their position: a defensive chain was positioned in the entry of the bay and their sailors improved the fortifications, adding another hundred guns. As the wind turned north they expected a direct attack from Teddiman, but the English Rear-Admiral, though now rejoined with the eight vessels that had got separated, limited himself to observing the harbour; on 10 August he left to join the main fleet, that however had already been forced by lack of supplies to depart for England on 6 August, ignorant that it had failed to intercept De Ruyter.\n\nOn 13 August Sandwich, learning that De Ruyter had reached the Republic on 27 July, took sea again, sailing to the east, but failed to meet Teddiman's flotilla though it was but thirty miles to the north of him; both English forces were unaware of each other and of the fact that not fifty miles east of them, De Ruyter was heading north, having on arrival been appointed Lieutenant-Admiral and supreme commander of the rebuilt combined Dutch fleet, that was now out in force with 93 warships, 20 yachts, 12 fireships, 15,051 sailors, 4583 marines and 4337 cannons. Again returning to England, Sandwich joined Teddiman near Flamborough Head on 18 August, anchoring at Solebay on the 22nd to resupply and departing on the 28th.\n\nMeanwhile, on 19 August De Ruyter's relief fleet had arrived at Bergen; on 23 August he left again to shield a planned escape by the merchant fleet, but adverse gales forced him to return two days later. Only on 29 August did the Dutch merchant fleet leave the harbour. The next day the convoy of 184 ships was struck by a hurricane, lasting till the afternoon of 1 September, that completely dispersed it. When the storm subsided De Ruyter had only 37 warships and eight merchantmen with him. Sandwich, now to the east of De Ruyter, on 3 September managed to intercept and take a straggling group of four warships, the \"Zevenwolden\", \"Westvriesland\", \"Groningen\" and \"Hoop\" and, much more important, two VOC-vessels: the \"Slot Hooningen\" and \"Gulden Phenix\", that would again be lost by them during the Raid on the Medway. Receiving the false news that De Ruyter was east of him with the mass of the Dutch fleet, Lord Sandwich retreated to the west to bring his prizes to safety, again narrowly missing De Ruyter, moving to the east. Montague would afterwards be severely criticised for this as he thus forwent an excellent opportunity to destroy the Dutch in detail or at least capture more of the treasure ships. He on 9 September managed however to intercept and capture a second group with two WIC-vessels, four warships and seven fluyt naval supply ships. After breaking off a chase of another thirty vessels, for fear of the shoals of the Frisian Isles, he finally returned to Solebay on 11 September. The other Dutch vessels returned to the Dutch Republic safely, mostly reassembled by De Ruyter.\n\nFor the English the escape of the Dutch Return Fleet from the Indies was an enormous blow: they could only finance the war by capturing it. But the blow was somewhat softened by the later capture of the two VOC-merchantmen. Lord Sandwich was blamed for the failure and fell into disgrace. After his arrival in the Thames he illegally, but perhaps with connivance of Charles, took goods of considerable value from the hulls of the \"Slot Hooningen\" and \"Gulden Phenix\", sold these in secret and divided the gain among his nine flag officers, reserving for himself £4000. When this came to light, Charles had no choice but to cashier him, though Sandwich defended his conduct by pointing out he took only a small part of the booty, the value of which was estimated by him at £500,000. Samuel Pepys thus describes the impression of wealth when visiting one of the captured ships, in his diary entry of 16 November: \"So I on board my Lord Bruncker; and there he and Sir Edmund Pooly carried me down into the hold of the India shipp, and there did show me the greatest wealth lie in confusion that a man can see in the world. Pepper scattered through every chink, you trod upon it; and in cloves and nutmegs, I walked above the knees; whole rooms full. And silk in bales, and boxes of copper-plate, one of which I saw opened (...)which was as noble a sight as ever I saw in my life(...)\".\n\nLord Sandwich also thought he had been tricked by the Danish king, as Pepys recounts in his diary entry of 18 September: \"But the main thing my Lord wonders at, and blames the Dane for, is, that the blockhead, who is so much in debt to the Hollander, having now a treasure more than much than all his Crowne was worth, and that which would for ever have beggared the Hollander, should not take this time to break with the Hollander, and thereby pay his debt that must have been forgiven him and have got the greatest treasure into his hands that ever was together in the world\". In February 1666 the Danish king would declare war against England, after receiving large Dutch subsidies. Pieter de Bitter received an honorary golden chain from the States-General.\n\nOne reaction to the battle was the construction of an additional fortress—Fredriksberg Fortress (on Nordnes); the battle \"showed clearly how vulnerable the city really was\", according to Bjørn Arvid Bagge.\n\nToday, the Bergen Cathedral has a cannonball from the battle imbedded in the wall of its tower . In 2015 a plaquette was unveiled on a wall of the cathedral; an information board (\"infoplate\") was unveiled \"near \"Kongestatuen\" at Bergen[s]hus Fortress\". Bergen Maritime Museum has on display part of the decoration on the English vessels: two wooden figures, depicting the head of a lion and the head of a unicorn; in 2015, an exhibition marked the 350th anniversary of the battle: [kings, spices and gunpowder] \"Konger, krydder og krutt\".\n\n\n Bergen Cathedral\n"}
{"id": "2264194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264194", "title": "Heterography and homography", "text": "Heterography and homography\n\nIn linguistics, heterography is a property of a written language, such that it lacks a 1-to-1 correspondence between the written symbols and the sounds of the spoken language. Its opposite is homography, which is the property of a language such that written symbols of its written form and the sounds of its spoken form have a 1-to-1 correspondence.\n\nThe orthography of the English language is, according to Larry Trask, a \"spectacular example\" of heterography. But most European languages exhibit it to some extent. Finnish is \"very close\" to being a systematically homographic language. A phonemic transcription (such as a transcription of phonemes that uses the International Phonetic Alphabet, for example) is, by its nature, homographic, also.\n\nThe degree of heterography of a language is a factor in how difficult it is for person to learn to read that language, with highly heterographic orthographies being more difficult to learn than more homographic ones. Many people have espoused the point of view that the extreme heterographic nature of English is a disadvantage in several respects. These include, for example, Dr. Kiyoshi Makita writing in the July 1968 issue of the \"American Journal of Orthopsychiatry\", who attributes the rarity of dyslexia amongst Japanese children to the fact that Japanese is a highly homographic language.\n\nConfusion between heterographic homophonic words (homophonic heterographs or heterographic homophones) such as \"piece\" and \"peace\" is one of the symptoms of surface dyslexia, a form of dyslexia causing error when a word's spelling is not perceived to be in accord with pronunciation rules.\n\nOther homophonic heterographs in English include:\n\n\nIn French, examples include \"sain\" and \"saint\".\n\nHeterographs are especially problematic for written communication, in that spelling errors (e.g., in a word-processed or emailed document) due to the typist choosing the wrong member of a heterograph set will persist into the final document, even after spell-checking. This is because heterographs cannot be caught by a simple spell checker, which only inspects the word itself (i.e., which is correct in some contexts) and not the context it is in (which may indicate the need for a different spelling).\n\nHeterophonic homographs (also known as homographic heterophones) are, in contrast, words whose spoken sounds differ but whose written forms are the same. English has a few hundred heterophonic homographs, examples of these latter include \"lead\" (\"lead by example\" vs \"lead poisoning\") and \"read\" (\"will read\" vs \"has read\").\n\nThe two aforementioned classes of words, along with a third class (homophonic homographs—words with different meanings whose written and spoken forms are both the same, such as \"bank\" in English and \"杜鹃\" in Chinese) are the three classes of lexical ambiguities in all languages (marked in green in the key on the right). \"Heterophonic heterographs\" (marked in brown) are words spelled differently and pronounced differently, consisting of all words outside of the other three classes.\n\nChinese has many words that are both homophonic and homotonic. Distinctions are made between such words using heterography. Homophonic heterographs are very frequent in Chinese, whereas heterophonic homographs are not. In contrast, homographic heterophony is one of the most salient characteristics of English orthography, with the \"-ough\" in \"though\", \"tough\", \"through\", \"thought\", \"bough\", \"cough\", and \"dough\" being homographic but greatly heterophonic.\n\nAlthough written French includes a limited number of heterophonous homographs – for example, \"est\" (/ɛ/, \"is\") v. \"est\" (/ɛst/, \"east\") and \"fils\" (/fis/, \"son\") v. \"fils\" (/fil/, \"threads\") – the language is characterized to a much greater degree by the not infrequent occurrence of homophonous heterographs – for example, \"vert\" (\"green\"), \"vers\" (\"towards\"), \"verre\" (\"glass\"), \"ver\" (\"worm\"), \"vair\" (\"a type of fur\"), all pronounced /vɛʁ/.\n\nThere is thus a strong correlation in French between spelling and pronunciation – but it is one which operates reliably only in the direction shown in the examples given above. From the spelling of an unknown word one can in almost every case know, or very reliably guess at, its correct pronunciation, but the spelling of a previously unknown word is not at all easily deducible from knowing only its pronunciation.\n\nEnglish, by contrast, exhibits a weak correspondence between spelling and pronunciation in \"both\" directions, making it a much more heterographic language than French.\n\n"}
{"id": "2264196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264196", "title": "Timeline of psychotherapy", "text": "Timeline of psychotherapy\n\nThis article is a compiled timeline of psychotherapy. A more general description of the development of the subject of psychology can be found in the History of psychology article. For related overviews see the Timeline of psychology and Timeline of psychiatry articles.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\ncredited as providing the first clinical/scientific mention of the unconscious in his work Von den Krankeiten.\nParacelsus called for the humane treatment of the mentally ill (but was ignored for several centuries) as he saw \nthem not to be possessed by evil spirits, but merely 'brothers' ensnared in a treatable malady.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2264206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264206", "title": "Patrick Heron", "text": "Patrick Heron\n\nPatrick Heron (30 January 1920 – 20 March 1999) was a British abstract and figurative artist, critic, writer, and polemicist, who lived in Zennor, Cornwall.\n\nHeron was recognised as one of the leading painters of his generation. Influenced by Cézanne, Matisse, Braque and Bonnard, Heron made a significant contribution to the dissemination of modernist ideas of painting through his critical writing and primarily his art.\n\nHeron's artworks are most noted for his exploration and use of colour and light. He is known for both his early figurative work and non-figurative works, which over the years looked to explore further the idea of making all areas of the painting of equal importance. His work was exhibited widely throughout his career and while he wrote regularly early in his career, notably for \"New Statesman\" and \"Arts New York\", this continued periodically in later years.\n\nBorn 30 January 1920 at Headingley, Leeds in Yorkshire, Heron was the eldest child of Thomas Milner Heron and Eulalie Mabel (née Davies). The family moved to Cornwall when Heron was five and brother Michael (1921), where Tom joined Alec Walker at Cryséde to manage and expand the business from artist-designed wood-block prints on silk to include garment-making and retail. The whole family, now four children (Joanna 1926 and Anthony 1928 born in Cornwall), moved again in 1929 to Welwyn Garden City where Tom established Cresta Silks. Notable designers including Edward McKnight Kauffer and Wells Coates, Paul Nash and Cedric Morris worked with Cresta, and Heron also created fabric designs for the firm from his teenage years. At school, Heron met his future wife, Delia, daughter of Celia and Richard Reiss, a director of the company which founded Welwyn Garden City.\n\nRegistered as a conscientious objector in World War II, Heron worked as an agricultural labourer in Cambridgeshire before he was signed off for ill health. He returned to Cornwall to work for Bernard Leach at the Leach Pottery, St Ives, in 1944–45. During this time, he met many leading artists of the St Ives School, including Barbara Hepworth and Ben Nicholson. Reacquainted with Cornwall, Heron spent each summer there until it became his permanent home in 1956 after his purchase and refurbishment of \"Eagles Nest\" the year before from Mark Arnold-Forster, a house Heron had lived in during his childhood. He spent the rest of his life here, until he died at home in March 1999.\n\nPatrick and Delia married in 1945 and had two daughters,\n\nHeron was appointed a CBE in 1977 under Harold Wilson, but rejected a knighthood under Margaret Thatcher.\n\nHeron used that most rare and uncanny of gifts: the ability to invent an imagery that was unmistakably his own, and yet which connects immediately with the natural world as we perceive it, and transforms our vision of it. Like those of his acknowledged masters, Braque, Matisse and Bonnard, his paintings are at once evocations and celebrations of the visible, discoveries of what he called \"the reality of the eye\".Heron's early works were strongly influenced by artists including Matisse, Bonnard, Braque and Cézanne. Throughout his career, Heron worked in a variety of media, from the silk scarves he designed for his father's company Cresta from the age of 14, to a stained-glass window for Tate St Ives, but he was foremost a painter working in oils and gouache.\n\nHeron first saw the paintings of Paul Cézanne at an exhibition at the National Gallery in 1933, an influence which continued throughout his career. Having seen \"The Red Studio\" by Matisse (one of his other significant influences) at the Redfern Gallery in 1943, Heron completed \"The Piano\", which he considered to be his first mature work. His first solo exhibition was held in 1947 at the Redfern Gallery, London. That same year, Heron began a series of portraits of TS Eliot, one of which was acquired by the National Portrait Gallery in 1966. In 2013 this highly abstracted portrait was the centre of an exhibition at the gallery, displayed for the first time alongside a selection of Heron's original studies from life and memory from which it was produced.\n\nHeron's permanent move to Eagles Nest in 1956 coincided with his commitment to non-figurative painting and resulted in a very productive period of his work. Its roots can be seen in the \"Space in Colour\" exhibition held at Hanover Gallery, London in 1953 where the works of Heron and nine of his British contemporaries were displayed, which he both curated and wrote the catalogue for. His Tachiste paintings made reference to the garden at Eagles Nest, such as \"Azalea Garden\", in the Tate collection.\n\nHis 'Stripe' paintings, described by Alan Bowness as being 'suffused with light and colour and full of a positive life-enhancing quality so free and so refreshing' emphasised this move towards the principles of colour. Writing in 1968, Bowness went on to describe how he could 'think of few more disconcerting paintings in the last twenty years than Herons stripe paintings of 1957'. Heron described how the 'vertical touch' of the Tachiste paintings were pushed to the ultimate conclusion, as the lines \"became longer and longer, until on one painting in early 1956 they became so long that the strokes touched top and bottom\". From 1958 onwards, Heron was represented by Waddington Galleries. When Ben Nicholson moved to Switzerland in 1958, Heron took over his studio at Porthmeor Studios, overlooking the beach at Porthmeor, St Ives, and began to take advantage of the larger space to paint at a bigger scale – first soft-edged and then the self-described \"wobbly hard-edge painting\", such as \"Cadmium with Violet, Scarlet, Emerald, Lemon and Venetian: 1969\" in the Tate.\n\nThe shock of Delia's unexpected death in 1979 meant Heron did little painting for some time. When he did return to the canvas, he turned to the garden at Eagles Nest. Just as it had shown a route to abstraction when Heron first moved there in the 1950s, through it he found a way to reinvigorate his creative approach: rather than rapidly drawing large shapes in pen across the canvas which would then be filled in with a fine Japanese watercolour brush as he had through most of the 1970s, Heron used a large brush, mixed different colours together, and painted from the arm rather than the wrist, allowing the works to develop through the act of painting. This burst of creativity, resulting in paintings such as \"28 January: 1983 (Mimosa)\", formed Heron's Barbican exhibition of 1985.\n\nIn 1989 Heron was invited to be artist-in-residence at the museum of New South Wales in Sydney, and this resulted in another highly prolific period of his work. Drawing inspiration from his daily walk to his studio through the city's Botanic Gardens located by the harbour, Heron produced six large paintings and 46 gouaches in sixteen weeks. These works are reactions to real visual experiences, yet are not direct representations; instead the line and colour encapsulate \"specific visual realities without ever depicting them\".\n\nThese intense periods of activity characterised Heron's later career, made obvious through his exhibitions at the Barbican, and another at Camden Arts Centre in 1994. Taking advantage of the space of the centre, Heron created a series of paintings of grand proportions – at and ranging from long, they were conceived with Camden Arts Centre's galleries in mind. These paintings formed the exhibition entitled 'Big Paintings' that went on to tour Britain. The year before, Heron designed a coloured glass window for the new Tate St Ives with his son-in-law Julian Feary, which opened in 1993. Heron was commissioned to paint a portrait of author AS Byatt (1997), and the following year Tate Gallery, London staged a major retrospective of his work in 1998. This was the most comprehensive exhibition of Heron's work and brought together items from the different decades and periods of his working life. Selected by David Sylvester, the works were displayed so that the last gallery with his late paintings adjoined the first gallery with his earliest works, making explicit how the elements on which Heron's career was founded were already in place. Nicholas Serota, former director of the Tate Gallery, who was a friend as well as patron, described Heron as \"one of the most influential figures in post-war British art\".\n\nOnce the exhibition closed, at the Tate Gallery, London, Heron embarked on a series of 100 gouache paintings, each no bigger than A4. He stopped at 43rd, the number it took to cover the carpet in his sitting room at Eagles Nest.\n\nNaturally I like the article [in the\" New English Weekly\"] very much indeed – but not only because what you say about my work pleases me, but also because it is criticism that could only come from someone who has practised himself – and responded to the work in the way it was done. Henry MooreDear Mr Heron, I have translated certain sections of your book on paintings which I have read with interest. You throw a new light on those things about which run-of-the-mill criticism is bewildering. My sincere compliments, Georges Braque\n\nHeron was highly acclaimed as a writer as well as an artist, and respected by his contemporaries for being able to articulate art from the perspective of a practitioner. His writing about art began in 1945 when he was invited by Philip Mairet, editor of \"The New English Weekly\", to contribute to the journal. His first published article, on Ben Nicholson, was written while Heron was still at Leach Pottery. This was soon followed by essays on Picasso, Klee, Cézanne and Braque. Within the next two years Heron began broadcasting a series of talks on contemporary art on the BBC World Service and the newly founded Third programme, and wrote regularly for \"New Statesman\". In 1955, he became London Correspondent to Arts Digest, New York (later renamed \"Arts(NY)\"), and in the same year a selection of his criticism was published by Routledge as \"The Changing Forms of Art\". In 1958, Heron took a \"vow of silence\" as a critic, giving up his regular columns as he said he wanted to be a painter who wrote, not a writer who paints.\n\nHe did continue to contribute to exhibition catalogues, and wrote some key articles. Notably in 1966, 1968 and 1970 he published a series of articles in \"Studio International\" questioning the perceived ascendancy of American artists, at the expense of British and Parisian artists. His final essay on the subject was in a closely worded article of some 14,000 words published over a period of three days in \"The Guardian\" in October 1974. He also wrote passionately in defence of the independence and autonomy of English Art Schools against their integration into the polytechnic system. Heron's articles and essays have been republished in collected works, such as 'Selected Writings by the Artist' in \"Patrick Heron\" (Oxford: 1988)\", \"Patrick Heron on Art and Education\" (Leeds: 1996), and \"The Colour of Colour\" (Texas: 1979).\n\nHeron exhibited his work throughout his career. Key solo exhibitions include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2264219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264219", "title": "List of gaps in Hong Kong", "text": "List of gaps in Hong Kong\n\nThis is a list of gaps and passes in Hong Kong.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2264225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264225", "title": "Working Group on Internet Governance", "text": "Working Group on Internet Governance\n\nThe Working Group on Internet Governance (WGIG) was a United Nations multistakeholder Working group initiated after the 2003 World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS) first phase Summit in Geneva failed to agree on the future of Internet governance. The first phase of World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS) agreed to continue the dialogue on Internet Governance in the Declaration of Principles and Action Plan adopted on 12 December 2003, to prepare for a decision at the second phase of the WSIS in Tunis during November 2005. In this regard, the first phase of the Summit requested the United Nations Secretary-General to establish a Working Group on Internet Governance (WGIG).\n\nThe main activity of the WGIG was \"to investigate and make proposals for action, as appropriate, on the governance of Internet by 2005.\" The WGIG was asked to present the result of its work in a report \"for consideration and appropriate action for the second phase of the WSIS in Tunis 2005.\" \n\nIt was asked, inter alia, to deal with the following issues: \n\nA few weeks before the release of the WGIG Report the U.S. reiterated its claim of ICANN and stated that it wished to \"maintain its historic role in authorizing changes or modifications to the authoritative root zone file\". \n\nThe chair of WGIG was Nitin Desai, and the executive coordinator was Markus Kummer.\n\nThe 40 official members are listed in the final report; in addition, there were many people attending informally to contribute their views.\n\nThe report of the WGIG divided Internet Governance into four sections:\n\nFour options for the management of Internet-related public policy issues were proposed in the Report of the WGIG, finalised during their fourth meeting, and presented to stakeholders on 18 July 2005 in preparation for the November 2005 meeting in Tunis, Tunisia. These proposals all include the introduction of an open multi-stakeholder based Internet governance forum to give greater influence to stakeholders around the world, including civil society, the private sector, and governments. Each model included different strategies for the oversight role, currently held by the United States Department of Commerce.\n\nThe proposed models were:\n\nSome critics have hinted that the idea that the world's countries require a more \"equal\" say in Internet governance, masks the desire by some governments to conduct censorship or monitor their citizens more effectively. \n\nFears that increased \"governance\" will bring with it more regulation and fees have been expressed. IT experts have expressed doubts that a U.N. body that does not necessarily know enough about the Internet will effectively coordinate the Internet technologically. The director of ICANN has expressed concerns that some of the changes proposed represent a government-focused \"top-down\" philosophy, and that this is incompatible with the current \"bottom-up\" structure of the Internet mandated by US policy. The U.S Government's negotiating position in Tunis Prepcom 3 was flexible on the principle of global involvement, very strong on the principle of multistakeholder participation, but inflexible on the need for US control to remain for the foreseeable future in order to ensure the \"security and stability of the Internet\". This generally showed itself in U.S. support for proposals allowing other governments to have a larger role in the management of their ccTLDs, but no change to the management or control of the root zone file.\n\nThe majority of stakeholders want to avoid a politicisation of the Internet, and some consider the effort of the WGIG as launching a set of alien and dangerous terms and ideas. Others believe that it has been an important forum for discussion of the often contentious issue of Internet governance, as well as a model for multi-stakeholder cooperation. \n\nSome feel that either of the alternatives is better: a division of the Internet or a defense of the status quo. The United States has traditionally considered its function as a defender of citizens' rights worldwide, which is one reason it wants to keep the Internet free for private individuals rather than overly regulated by governments or international organisations. Some of the options presented in the WGIG Report may be seen by some as too government-oriented, while one option reflects the status quo, and may be seen as being too US-centric.\nThe final agreements reached in Tunis, the Tunis Agenda and the Tunis Commitment, include the formation of the Internet Governance Forum. No agreement was reached on the oversight function.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2264228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264228", "title": "Henry Bradshaw", "text": "Henry Bradshaw\n\nHenry Bradshaw or Harry Bradshaw may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2264231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264231", "title": "Taulihawa, Nepal", "text": "Taulihawa, Nepal\n\nTaulihawa, also known as Kapilavastu, is one of the oldest municipality and administrative center of Kapilvastu District in Province No. 5 of southern Nepal. Taulihawa is located roughly to the south-west of Lumbini, a UNESCO World Heritage Site and the birthplace of Gautama Buddha.\n\nThe municipality lies at an altitude of above sea level on Nepal's southern border across from Uttar Pradesh state, India. There is a customs checkpoint for goods while movement of Indian and Nepalese nationals across the border is unrestricted.\nTaulihawa had a population of 27,170 at the time of the 2001 Nepal census.\n\nMany historians claim Tilaurakot located in Kapilavastu municipality (Taulihawa) to be the ancient city of Kapilavastu. On the other hand, some other archaeologists have identified present-day Piprahwa, India as the location for the historical site of Kapilavastu. The 19th-century search for the historical site of Kapilavastu followed the accounts left by Faxian and later by Xuanzang, who were Chinese Buddhist monks who made early pilgrimages to the site.\nKapilavastu was an ancient city and the capital city of the Shakya kingdom.\nKing Śuddhodana and Queen Māyā are believed to have lived at Kapilavastu, as did their son Prince Siddartha Gautama until he left the palace at the age of 29.\n\nThere are many sites of historical interest in or very close to Kapilavastu, including:\n\n\nKumarwarti\n\n"}
{"id": "2264244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264244", "title": "Henry Bradshaw (poet)", "text": "Henry Bradshaw (poet)\n\nHenry Bradshaw (c. 1450–1513) was an English poet born in Chester. In his boyhood he was received into the Benedictine monastery of Saint Werburgh, and after studying with other novices of his order at Gloucester College, Oxford, he returned to his monastery at Chester.\n\nBradshaw wrote a Latin treatise \"De antiquitate et magnificentia Urbis Cestricie\", which is lost, and a life of the patron saint of his monastery in English seven-lined stanza. This work was completed in the year of its author's death, 1513, mentioned in \"A balade to the auctour\" printed at the close of the work. A second ballad describes him as \"Harry Braddeshaa, of Chestre abbey monke.\" Bradshaw disclaims the merit of originality and quotes the authorities from which he translates—Bede, William of Malmesbury, Giraldus Cambrensis, Alfred of Beverley, Henry of Huntingdon, Ranulph Higden, and especially the \"Passionary\" or life of the saint preserved in the monastery. The poem, therefore, which is defined by its editor, Dr Carl Horstmann, as a \"legendary epic,\" is rather a compilation than a translation. It contains a good deal of history beside the actual life of the saint. St Werburgh was the daughter of Wulfhere, king of Mercia, and Bradshaw gives a description of the kingdom of Mercia, with a full account of its royal house. He relates the history of St Ermenilde and St Sexburge, mother and grandmother of Werburgh, who were successively abbesses of Ely. He does not neglect the miraculous elements of the story, but he is more attracted by historical fact than legend, and the second book narrates the Danish invasion of 875, and describes the history and antiquities of Chester, from its foundation by the legendary giant Leon Gaur, from which he derives the British name of Caerleon, down to the great fire which devastated the city in 1180, but was suddenly extinguished when the shrine of St Werburgh was carried in procession through the streets.\n\n\"The Holy Lyfe and History of saynt Werburge very frutefull for all Christen people to rede\" (printed by Richard Pynson, 1521) has been very variously estimated. Thomas Warton, who deals with Bradshaw at some length, quotes as the most splendid passage of the poem the description of the feast preceding Werburgh's entry into the religious life. He considered Bradshaw's versification \"infinitely inferior to Lydgate's worst manner.\" Dr Horstmann, on the other hand, finds in the poem \"original genius, of a truly epic tone, with a native simplicity of feeling which sometimes reminds the reader of Homer.\" Most readers will probably adopt a view between these extremes. Bradshaw expresses the humblest opinion of his own abilities, and he certainly had no delicate ear for rhythm. His sincerity is abundantly evident, and his piety is admitted even by John Bale, hostile as he was to monkish writers. W. Herbert thought that a \"Lyfe of Saynt Radegunde\", also printed by Pynson, was certainly by Bradshaw. The only extant copy is in the Britwell library.\n\nPynson's edition of the \"Holy Lyfe\" is very rare, only five copies being known. A reprint copying the original type was edited by Mr. Edward Hawkins for the Chetham Society in 1848, and by Dr Carl Hortsmann for the Early English Text Society in 1887.\n\n"}
{"id": "2264256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264256", "title": "Henry Bradshaw (scholar)", "text": "Henry Bradshaw (scholar)\n\nHenry Bradshaw (2 February 1831 – 10 February 1886) was a British scholar and librarian. \n\nHenry Bradshaw was born in London, England, the son of Joseph Hoare Bradshaw, a banker. He was educated at Eton and King's College, Cambridge, where he became a fellow in 1853. After a brief spell from 1854 to 1856 as an Assistant Master at Saint Columba's College, Dublin, he accepted an appointment in the Cambridge University Library as an extra assistant. \n\nWhen he found that his official duties absorbed all his leisure he resigned his post, but continued to give his time to the examination of the manuscripts and early printed books in the library. There was then no complete catalogue of these sections, and Bradshaw soon showed a rare faculty for investigations respecting old books and curious manuscripts. \n\nIn addition to his achievements in black-letter bibliography he threw great light on ancient Celtic language and literature by the discovery, in 1857, of the \"Book of Deer\", a manuscript copy of the Gospels in the Vulgate version, in which were inscribed old Gaelic charters. This was published by the Spalding Club in 1869. Bradshaw also discovered some Celtic glosses on the manuscript of a metrical paraphrase of the Gospels by Juvencus. He made another find in the Cambridge library of considerable philological and historical importance; Cromwell's envoy, Sir Samuel Morland (1625–1695), had brought back from Piedmont manuscripts containing the earliest known Waldensian records, consisting of translations from the Bible, religious treatises and poems. One of the poems referred to the beginning of the 11th century, though the manuscripts did not appear to be of earlier date than the 15th century. On this Morland had based his theory of the antiquity of the Waldensian doctrine, and, in the absence of the manuscripts, which were supposed to be irretrievably lost, the conclusion was accepted. Bradshaw discovered the manuscripts in the university library, and found in the passage indicated traces of erasure. The original date proved to be 1400. Incidentally the correct date was of great value in the study of the history of the language. \n\nHe had a share in exposing the frauds of Constantine Simonides, who had asserted that the Codex Sinaiticus brought by Tischendorf from the Greek monastery of Mount Sinai was a modern forgery of which he was himself the author. Bradshaw exposed the absurdity of these claims in a letter to \"the Guardian\" (26 January 1863). In 1866 he made a valuable contribution to the history of Scottish literature by the discovery of 2200 lines on the siege of Troy incorporated in a manuscript of Lydgate's Troye Booke, and of the Legends of the Saints, an important work of some 40,000 lines. These poems he attributed, erroneously, as has since been proved, to Barbour.\n\nIn the absence of easily accessible library catalogs, Bradshaw played an important role in providing English literature and language scholars from other countries with access to and information about the location of medieval manuscripts. Ewald Flügel, a German scholar who had moved from Leipzig to Stanford University, praised him as the \"librarian of librarians,\" and Bernhard ten Brink, first chair of English Philology in Germany, called him \"the most thorough\" of \"all living Chaucer scholars.\"\n\nBradshaw allowed his attention to be divided over many areas, and wrote little that has lasted. He was elected (1867) university librarian, and as dean of his college (1857–1865) and praelector (1863–1868) he was involved in further routine duties. Besides his discoveries in bibliography, he improved the standard of library administration. His papers on antiquarian subjects were edited by Francis John Henry Jenkinson in 1889.\n\nHe had a great influence on Karl Pearson.\n\n"}
{"id": "2264259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264259", "title": "Comboios", "text": "Comboios\n\nComboios is an Indigenous Land of the \"tupiniquim\" people in the Brazilian state of Espírito Santo. In 1997 the first assembly of the \"tupinikim\" and \"guarani\" peoples was held here. Comboios was the only village in the area not participating in the protests against the Aracruz corporation, which is active in deforestation of\nrain forests. Comboios is within the Aracruz municipality.\n"}
{"id": "2264262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264262", "title": "Zur", "text": "Zur\n\nZur occurs five times in the King James Bible as the name of various people and a state.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2264263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264263", "title": "Bucksaw", "text": "Bucksaw\n\nA bucksaw is a hand-powered frame saw similar to bow saw and generally used with a sawbuck to cut logs or firewood to length (\"bucking\"). Modern bucksaws usually have a metal frame (\"H\" or \"C\"-shaped) and a removable blade with coarse teeth held in tension by the frame. Lightweight portable or foldable models used for camping or back-packing are also available. It is often referred to as a bow saw in the North American hardware market, but that term traditionally refers to a different type of saw with a wooden frame.\n\nA bucksaw is a crosscut saw: it is designed to cut across the grain. The width of the blade is constant from the teeth to the back. It is meant to cut wood fibers that are under tension, and is thick so that it is more difficult to bend on the push stroke. It can be either a one or two-man saw. Coopers often use bucksaws in their work.\n\nBucksaws can be used for a number of tasks like clearing land, chopping firewood, cutting lumber, and sometimes kept handy for small logging projects. Due to their portability, these hand tools are often preferred by people that like to go camping and enjoy the outdoors lifestyle. Bucksaws feature coarse teeth that allow them to work with very big timber and are designed to allow replacing the blades after extensive woodworking projects.\n\nIf people use them for furnishing crafts, the blades can be substituted with more polished ones. The cuts produced with these smaller toothed blades are smoother and cleaner. The great advantage of this tool is that electric power or cord is not needed to use it, and its affordability makes it easily replaceable.\n"}
{"id": "2264300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264300", "title": "Greek Orthodox Archbishop of Beirut", "text": "Greek Orthodox Archbishop of Beirut\n\nGreek Orthodox Archbishop of Beirut and Exarch of Phoenicia is the head of the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of Beirut and Exarchate of Phoenicia in the Syrian-based patriarchate of the Eastern Orthodox Church of Antioch. The present Archbishop is Elias Audi (1980-)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2264305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264305", "title": "Charlie Hodge", "text": "Charlie Hodge\n\nCharlie Hodge may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2264309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264309", "title": "Louis Lewandowski", "text": "Louis Lewandowski\n\nLouis Lewandowski (April 3, 1821 – February 4, 1894) was a Polish-Jewish and German-Jewish composer of synagogal music.\nHe contributed greatly to the liturgy of the Synagogue Service. His most famous works were composed during his tenure as musical director at the Neue Synagoge in Berlin and his melodies form a substantial part of synagogue services around the world today.\n\nLewandowski was born in Wreschen, Grand Duchy of Posen, Prussia (now Września in Poland). The name Lewandowski is derived from the place name Lewandów, itself derived from the Old Polish word lewanda – 'lavender' (lawenda in modern Polish). \n\nAt the age of twelve he went to Berlin to study piano and voice, and became solo soprano in the synagogue. Afterward he studied for three years under A. B. Marx and attended the school of composition of the Berlin Academy. There his teachers were Carl Friedrich Rungenhagen and Eduard Grell. Lewandowski was the first Jew to be admitted to the school at the request of Felix Mendelssohn. After graduating with high honors, he was appointed in 1840 choirmaster of the Berlin synagogue. In that capacity he rendered invaluable services in the development of music for synagogue ritual.\n\nIn 1866 he received the title of \"royal musical director.\" Shortly afterward, he was appointed choirmaster in the Neue Synagoge, Berlin, for which he composed the entire musical service. The Neue Synagogue was what would then have been called a conservative synagogue and what now would be considered progressive. His arrangements of ancient Hebrew melodies for choir, cantor, and organ are considered masterly productions, characterized by great simplicity and a profound religious sentiment. Many of Lewandowski's pupils became prominent cantors. Lewandowski was the principal founder of the Institute for Aged and Indigent Musicians, an institution that prospered under his management.\n\nLewandowski died in Berlin in 1894. He and his wife Helene are buried in the Weißensee Cemetery. On their gravestone is inscribed: \"\"Liebe macht das Lied unsterblich!\"\" (Love makes the melody immortal!)\n\nLewandowski's principal works include: \"Kol Rinnah u-Tefillah,\" for cantor; \"Todah ve-Zimrah,\" for mixed chorus, solo, and organ; 40 psalms, for solo, chorus, and organ; symphonies, overtures, cantatas, and songs. During Lewandowski's life the issue of whether an organ should be part of a synagogue service was one of major contention. Lewandowski advocated communal singing and the organ was essential to facilitate this. Eventually organs became commonplace in synagogues around Europe, hence the popularity of \"Todah ve-Zimrah\". Lewandowski's writing is quite unique in that it incorporates the strict four-part harmony of church music with ancient cantorial modal melodies.\n\nToday Lewandowski's music forms a central part of the synagogue service in Reform, Liberal, Conservative and Orthodox communities. It is sung across the world from Europe to Australia and America to South Africa. Most orthodox synagogues across the world refrain from a mixed choir or instrumental music, hence much of this music has been arranged for a capella male choir. Even in communities without choirs one can hear the melodies of Lewandowski either chanted by the cantor or a communal unison.\n\nOver the past decades attempts have been made to celebrate the music of Lewandowski. The \"Zemel Choir\" of London released an album of the works of Lewandowski according to their original settings entitled \"Louis Lewandowski - Choral and Cantorial Works\". In 2011 in Berlin an annual international choir festival was started under the auspices of the mayor called the \"Louis Lewandowski Festival\". \"The Synagogal Ensemble Berlin\", the resident choir at the Pestalozzistraße Synagogue in Berlin present full Lewandowski Shabbat services every Friday night and Saturday Morning. The \"Lewandowski Chorale, Johannesburg\" is a non-denominational mixed choir focussing on bringing the music of Lewandowski to a wider audience. The Society for Classical Reform Judaism (USA), the international voice of advocacy for the preservation and renewal of the historic worship and musical traditions of the Reform Movement, actively promotes the Lewandowski repertoire for contemporary liturgical usage. In addition to the production of CD recordings of this music, the Society has supported the renewed use of the Lewandowski tradition at the Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion, at its campus synagogues in Cincinnati, Los Angeles and particularly in Jerusalem- where a Classical Reform worship Service and concert have become a major annual event. The SCRJ also supports the use of these compositions, with instrumental and choral accompaniment, at congregations throughout the United States, as well as in Jerusalem and Warsaw.\n\nThe Jewish Encyclopedia article cites the following references:\n\n"}
{"id": "2264342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264342", "title": "Science Centre Singapore", "text": "Science Centre Singapore\n\nThe Science Centre Singapore (SCS, previously known as Singapore Science Centre) is a scientific institution in Jurong East, Singapore, specialising in the promotion of scientific and technological education for the general public. With over 850 exhibits spread over eight exhibition galleries, it sees over a million visitors a year, and over 25 million visitors up to the year 2003 when it celebrated its silver jubilee. Every year, Science Centre will include new activities.\n\nThe Science Centre was carved out of the National Museum of Singapore as a separate institution so that the latter could focus on its artistic and historical collections. This idea was first mooted in 1969 by the former Science Council of Singapore, now known as the Agency for Science, Technology and Research (A*Star), and was approved by the government.\nThe SCS building's design was decided by an architectural competition organised by the Science Centre Board, in which Raymond Woo architects' entry was selected. Built at a cost of S$12 million on a site in Jurong East, it was officially opened on 10 December 1977 by Dr. Toh Chin Chye, the Minister-in-charge of the centre.\n\nIn 1987, the centre saw a significant expansion with the opening of Singapore's first and only OMNIMAX theatre, the Omni-Theatre. Costing $18 million, it has a 276-seat theatre underneath a tilted dome.\n\nIn 1999, a $38 million renovation expanded the centre's exhibition space with larger open areas, a direct connection to the separate Omni-Theatre building, as well as a new entrance. In 2000, Snow City, a recreation of a environment in tropical Singapore, was set up beside the Omni-Theatre.\n\nOn 7 December 2007, in its 30th anniversary year, the centre rebranded itself as the Science Centre Singapore (SCS).\n\nThe Science Centre Observatory is situated at , and is above mean sea level. It is one of the few observatories in the world located next to the equator. Its unique position allows constellations in both the northern and southern celestial hemispheres to be observed and thus opens up more vistas in the sky for observers. The Observatory is endowed with a range of sophisticated facilities as well as a classroom for astronomy lessons, slide shows and public talks.\n\nThe main telescope of the Observatory is a Cassegrain reflector of a combined focal length of . The sub-telescope is a apochromatic Kepler refractor with a focal length of . The equatorial mount for the telescopes was designed for Singapore's unique location; the accompanying English yoke provides the stability needed for the drive and tracking mechanisms. The stainless steel dome can be made to swivel in any direction and its shutter can be made to slide open for the telescope to be focused on to interesting objects in the sky.\n\nThe Observatory has been open to the public for stargazing sessions every Friday night since June 2006. The opening hours are from 7:50 to 10:00 pm. The Observatory can comfortably accommodate 50 visitors per session. It is important to note that stargazing through the observatory telescope is only possible when the sky is clear. However, regardless of weather conditions, the staff will be present.\n\nOn 4 April 2008, the Urban Redevelopment Authority announced plans to relocate the Science Centre next to Chinese Garden MRT station within ten to 15 years.\n\nOn 24 May 2019, the Science Centre board awarded a multi-disciplinary team led by Architects 61 for the design of the new centre, expected to be ready by 2025. It said the team, which includes Zaha Hadid architects, submitted the \"best proposal which reflected the boldness of scientific endeavour and future focused Stem aspirations\".\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2264346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264346", "title": "Electron configurations of the elements (data page)", "text": "Electron configurations of the elements (data page)\n\nThis page shows the electron configurations of the neutral gaseous atoms in their ground states. For each atom the subshells are given first in concise form, then with all subshells written out, followed by the number of electrons per shell. Electron configurations of elements beyond hassium (element 108), including those of the undiscovered elements beyond oganesson (element 118), are predicted.\n\nAs an approximate rule, electron configurations are given by the . However there are numerous exceptions; for example the lightest exception is chromium, which would be predicted to have the configuration , written as , but whose actual configuration given in the table below is .\n\nNote that these electron configurations are given for neutral atoms in the gas phase, which are not the same as the electron configurations for the same atoms in chemical environments. In many cases, multiple configurations are within a small range of energies and the irregularities shown above are quite irrelevant chemically.\n\nAll sources concur with the data above except in the instances listed separately:\n\nThis website is also cited in the CRC Handbook as source of Section 1, subsection Electron Configuration of Neutral Atoms in the Ground State.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThis book contains predicted electron configurations for the elements 119–172 and 184, based on relativistic Dirac–Fock calculations by B. Fricke in \n\nPredicted electron configurations for element 173 based on relativistic Dirac–Fock calculations by B. Fricke\n"}
{"id": "2264348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264348", "title": "Bird language", "text": "Bird language\n\nBird language refers to birds' system of communication. It may also refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2264365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264365", "title": "IBTABA", "text": "IBTABA\n\nIt's Beginning to and Back Again, also known by its acronym IBTABA, is the sixth studio album by the British post-punk group Wire, released in 1989. The title comes from the lyrics of the third song, \"German Shepherds\".\n\nHalf of the album consists of reinterpretations of live performances of material from the band's previous record, \"A Bell Is a Cup...Until It Is Struck\". The recordings are \"based on performances in Chicago, Portugal and London.\" Live tracks were deconstructed in the studio and remixed by Wire. The record contains the single \"Eardrum Buzz\", which was the band's most successful single in their history, charting at #2 on the Billboard Modern Rock Tracks chart and #68 in the UK.\n\nAll tracks written by Bruce Gilbert, Robert Gotobed, Graham Lewis and Colin Newman.\n"}
{"id": "2264377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264377", "title": "Indian Federal Democratic Party", "text": "Indian Federal Democratic Party\n\nThe Indian Federal Democratic Party was a political party in India. In the 2004 Lok Sabha elections IFDP won one seat from Kerala P. C. Thomas Defeating Jose K. Mani of Kerala Congress (M). That was the first parliamentary electoral victory of a National Democratic Alliance member in the state.\n\nLater, IFDP merged with the Kerala Congress (Jacob). A breakaway faction of IFDP led by M. P. George split from the party. In 2014, this faction merged with All India Forward Bloc.\n"}
{"id": "2264389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264389", "title": "Republican Party of India (Athawale)", "text": "Republican Party of India (Athawale)\n\nThe Republican Party of India (Athawale) ( RPI(A)) is a political party in India. The party is a splinter group of the Republican Party of India and has its roots in the Scheduled Castes Federation led by B. R. Ambedkar. The president of the party is Ramdas Athawale.\n\nRamdas Athawale was member of the Maharashtra Legislative Council from 1990 to 1995 and a cabinet member in the Government of Maharashtra. Subsequently, he was elected to the Parliament of India, representing Mumbai North Central in the 12th Lok Sabha between 1998–99 and the Pandharpur constituency from 1999 to 2004.\n\nAfter the 2004 election, it had a small representation in the Lok Sabha and was a constituent of the ruling United Progressive Alliance. Its presence is limited to Maharashtra.\n\nAll factions of the RPI except Prakash Ambedkar's Bharipa Bahujan Mahasangh have reunited to form a Republican Party of India (United).\n\nIn 2011, the party aligned itself with the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance.\n\nRakhi Sawant resigned from Rashtriya Aam Party and joined Republican Party of India (A) in June 2014 and expressed her desire to work for dalits. Rakhi serves as party's state vice-president and president of woman wing.\n\nIn September 2015, the RPI(A) was one of 16 parties in Maharashtra to lose its registration for not submitting audited balance sheets and IT return documents since 2005. Thus they have lost their official election symbols.\n\nAthawale is only member in Member of Parliament in Upper House of the Indian parliament. He is currently Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Department with Disability Affairs from July 2016 in Narendra Modi ministry.\n\nIn May 2019, Athawale continued his position as Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment.\n\n"}
{"id": "2264396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264396", "title": "Kerala Congress", "text": "Kerala Congress\n\nThe Kerala Congress is a party which was split off from Indian National Congress in 1964. It was founded by K. M. George. This party is based on the state \nKerala. The party had gone through many splits and mergers. The party is now dissolved into many other parties such as Kerala Congress (M), Kerala Congress (Jacob), Kerala Congress (B), Kerala Congress (Democratic), Kerala Congress (Skaria Thomas) , \nKerala Congress (Thomas) , Kerala Congress (Nationalist), \nJanadhipathya Kerala Congress.\nAmong these Kerala Congress (M) is recognised as a State Party by Election Commission of India\n\n\nThe Kerala Congress has suffered severe divisions and several factions (called groups), and a number of parties have emerged over the years, all claiming the name Kerala Congress in various times in its history. Factions included the parent under P. J. Joseph, Kerala Congress (Mani) under K. M. Mani, Kerala Congress (Balakrishna Pillai) under R. Balakrishna Pillai, and Kerala Congress (Jacob) under Johnny Nellore. The group that had retained the official recognition by the Election Commission of India to the name 'Kerala Congress' was the one led by P. J. Joseph (which is informally called the Joseph group) until 2010.\n\nKerala Congress grew under K. M. George. R. Balakrishna Pillai was another founding leader of the party. Besides these two leaders Karingozhakkal Mani Mani, popularly called K.M. Mani and P. J. Joseph, the youth front leader rose as prominent leaders of the party. After the death of K. M. George in 1976, there was tussle for control over the party between Balakrishna Pillai and K. M Mani. Pillai felt, as the senior most leader, he would be the de facto leader of the party. However Mani and Joseph had more followers. In the year 1977, just before the Assembly elections, R. Balakrishna Pillai announced a split from the parent Kerala Congress. This group came to be known as Kerala Congress (Balakrishna Pillai) with R. Balakrishna Pillai as the Chairman. In the Assembly elections of 1977 Kerala Congress stayed with UDF and secured 20 seats where as Pillai group secured 2 seats with LDF\n\nKerala Congress was again split in the year 1979, when veteran Indian politician and the then Minister of Home Affairs in the Kerala government, Karingozhakkal Mani Mani, popularly called K.M. Mani, announced a split from the parent Kerala Congress, owing to difference of opinions with P. J. Joseph. This group came to be known as Kerala Congress (M) with K. M. Mani as the Chairman. In the 1979 Panchayat elections Kerala Congress (M) stayed with U. D. F. and Kerala Congress under P. J. Joseph stayed with L. D. F. In 1980 Assembly elections both factions switched the sides. Kerala Congress (M) moved over to L. D. F. along with Congress Leader A. K. Antony and Kerala Congress under P. J. Joseph moved over to U. D. F. Later Kerala Congress (M) returned to the U. D. F. All three factions represented the U. D. F. in 1982 Assembly lections as separate entities. In the 1982 U. D. F government, K. M Mani (Finance), P. J. Joseph (Revenue), R. Balakrishna Pilai (Transport), T. M. Jacob ( Education) became ministers.\n\nIn 1985 the Kerala Congress (M) and Kerala Congress (Balakrishna Pillai) merged with its parent Kerala Congress under P. J. Joseph while the two factions realized that the splits are indeed weakening the party. The merged Kerala Congress had 25 MLAs and 4 Ministers. On 25 May 1985, at a public meeting at Ernakulam, R Balakrishna Pllai, then a Minister in the Kerala Cabinet, allegedly incited the people to resort to protests like 'Punjab Model' to get the rights of Kerala State. This became a huge controversy and Pillai was forced to resign from the Cabinet and his portfolio was given to K. M Mani. Later the High Court of Kerala gave relief to Pillai. On this grounds the Kerala Congress under Chairman P. J. Joseph requested the then Chief Minister K. Karunakaran to reindic Pillai to the cabinet. Karunakaran saw this as an opportunity to weaken Kerala Congress and took a stand that for Pillai to be re-indicted to the cabinet Kerala Congress has to surrender the Finance portfolio held by Mani or be content with 3 minister ships. This caused Mani to be upset and following a sequence of events, the seeds of another split was already sown.\n\nJust before the Assembly elections of 1987 the differences between the factions under K. M Mani and P. J. Joseph got wider following the 'Punjab Model' speech issue. The Kerala Congress was again split when Mani famously declared 'If it is a split, So be it'. The faction under K. M. Mani was again known as Kerala Congress (M). Pillai and Joseph remained as Kerala Congress. T. M Jacob choose to stay with K. M Mani. In general there was a discontent among the Kerala Congress leaders that K. M. Mani was not putting the interests of the party, but a large number of ordinary party men stayed with Mani. A lot of Mani's earlier loyal leadership team including the leaders who were initially chosen by Mani to negotiate with Joseph, like O. Lukose and P. C. Joseph had to finally align with Joseph in the political situation that unfolded. However K. M. Mani still commanded a lot of loyalty in ordinary party men who were unaware of the insider information.\n\nOn 16 December 1993, then Irrigation Affairs Minister T. M. Jacob MLA along with Johny Nellore MLA, P. M. Mathew MLA, Mathew Stephen MLA, Oommen Mathew, Vakkanad Radhakrishnan, and George Kunnappuzha split from Kerala Congress (M)citing differences with K. M. Mani. The newly formed faction was called Kerala Congress (Jacob).\n\nP. C. Thomas, son of P. T. Chacko who was part of Kerala Congress (M) and was the sitting M.P from Muvattupuzha had growing differences with K. M. Mani. This caused a split of a group of leaders from Kerala Congress (M) to form Indian Federal Democratic Party (I.F.D.P). IFDP tried to form a national level alliance but failed. Meanwhile, the parent Kerala Congress under P. J. Joseph also got split when P. C. George formed the Kerala Congress (Secular) splitting away from parent Kerala Congress under P. J. Joseph.\n\nLater Indian Federal Democratic Party (I.F.D.P), under P. C. Thomas which split from the Mani group, merged with the Joseph group. A section of the Indian Federal Democratic Party under M. P. George retains its own cadre. In October 2009, Kerala Congress (Secular) under P. C. George, which split from the Joseph group, merged with the Mani group. A section of the Kerala Congress (Secular) denied the merger and began to be known as Kerala Congress (Socialist). Kerala Congress Socialist soon got dissolved when it merged with the Janata Dal (Secular).\n\nThere were several unofficial moves for bringing back the various splinter groups together under one umbrella ever since the first split of 1979. In 2007, Kerala Congress (Mani), Kerala Congress (Secular), Kerala Congress (Balakrishna Pillai), and Kerala Congress (Jacob) tried to form a united forum, but this was unsuccessful.\n\nP. J. Joseph announced on 30 April 2010 the intention of his group to leave the Left Democratic Front (LDF), of which his group had been a constituent for two decades, and merge with the group led by K. M. Mani to form a united Kerala Congress. K. M. Mani reciprocated shortly thereafter, welcoming the exit of the Joseph group from the LDF. This reunited the two factions which had split in 1979 to form a single Kerala Congress, and made it the largest constituent of the United Democratic Front (UDF) after the Indian National Congress. However, other factions including Kerala Congress (Balakrishna Pillai), kept out of this merger. A faction under P. C. Thomas also dissented and stayed back with the Left Democratic Front, forming the Kerala Congress (Anti-merger Group).\n\nDuring the 2011 Kerala Assembly elections, both P. J. Joseph and P. C. Thomas claimed the party symbol Bicycle and the party name Kerala Congress. Registration of the name Kerala Congress was temporarily frozen by the Election Commission as the arguments were inconclusive. The Joseph group which united with the Mani group was asked to adopt the name of Kerala Congress (M) and its symbol Two Leaves. The Thomas group was allotted the name Kerala Congress (Anti-merger Group) and the symbol Chair.\n\nKerala Congress made claims to the Idukki Lok Sabha seat within the United Democratic Front for the 2014 elections. There was a strong sentiment against the sitting congress M.P, P. T. Thomas because of his stand on the Kasturirangan Report. Francis George, who was earlier M.P. from the constituency, was very vocal against the Kasturirangan Report and had mobilized the people in protest along with several other banners. The Congress high command denied seat to Kerala Congress and Mr. Dean Kuriakose was announced as the UDF candidate. The LDF tactically didn't announce its candidate in the hope of pulling over a winnable candidate like Francis George or P. C. Joseph from Kerala Congress, who were spearheading the protests against the Kasturirangan Report. But Francis George openly refused the offer to contest under the LDF banner. Finally Mr. Joice George, an advocate of 'Highrange Samrakshana Samiti', the forum set up against Kasturirangan Report, was fielded as LDF candidate and he went on to win the election banking on the sentiment against Kasturirangan Report.\nJust before 2014 Lok Sabha elections, on 11 March 2014, a few members led by Noble Mathew left Kerala Congress and form new fractional party named as Kerala Congress(Nationalist). This party is in alliance with BJP led National Democratic Alliance.\n\nFrancis George, son of founder of Kerala Congress K. M. George, along with Antony Raju and Dr. K C Joseph left Kerala Congress (Mani) and formed Kerala Congress (Democratic).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2264407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264407", "title": "Piccolomini", "text": "Piccolomini\n\nPiccolomini (pronounced ) is the name of an Italian noble family, which was prominent in Siena from the beginning of the 13th century until the 18th century.\n\nIn 1220, Engelberto d'Ugo Piccolomini received the fief of Montertari in Val d'Orcia from the emperor Frederick II as a reward for services rendered. The family acquired houses and towers in Siena as well as castles and territory in the republic, including Montone and Castiglione; the latter sold to the comune in 1321.\n\nThey obtained great wealth through trade, and established counting-houses in Genoa, Venice, Aquileia, Trieste, and in various cities of France and Germany. Supporters of the Guelph cause in the civil broils by which Siena was torn, they were driven from the city during the time of Manfred of Sicily and their houses demolished; they returned in triumph after the Angevin victories, were expelled once more during the brief reign of Conradin, and again returned to Siena with the help of Charles of Anjou. But through their riotous political activity, the Piccolomini lost their commercial influence, which passed into the hands of the Florentines, although they retained their palaces, castles and about twenty fiefs, some of which were in the territory of Amalfi and of great extent.\n\nAnother branch of the family obtained a great success in the Kingdom of Naples, becoming one of the \"seven great houses\" of the kingdom.\n\nMany members of the house were distinguished ecclesiastics, generals and statesmen in Siena and elsewhere.\n\nTwo of them became popes:\n\nOther distinguished members include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2264414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264414", "title": "Forge Mill Needle Museum", "text": "Forge Mill Needle Museum\n\nThe Forge Mill Needle Museum in Redditch, Worcestershire, is a historic museum depicting Redditch's Industrial Heritage. Opened in 1983 by Queen Elizabeth II, it records how in Victorian times, Redditch was the international centre of the needle and fishing tackle industry and once produced 90% of the world's needles. \n\nModels and recreated scenes provide a vivid illustration of how needles were once made, and the museum organises many exhibitions, demonstration, and workshops on how needles were used in the textile industry. \n\nForge Mill Museum is open to visitors from February to November. Site tours of National Needle Museum, Forge Mill and the neighbouring Bordesley Abbey can be arranged by contacting the Museum .\n\n"}
{"id": "2264425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264425", "title": "Jean Leclerc", "text": "Jean Leclerc\n\nJean Leclerc may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2264429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264429", "title": "Phraseology", "text": "Phraseology\n\nIn linguistics, phraseology is the study of set or fixed expressions, such as idioms, phrasal verbs, and other types of multi-word lexical units (often collectively referred to as \"phrasemes\"), in which the component parts of the expression take on a meaning more specific than or otherwise not predictable from the sum of their meanings when used independently. For example, ‘Dutch auction’ is composed of the words \"Dutch\" ‘of or pertaining to the Netherlands’ and \"auction\" ‘a public sale in which goods are sold to the highest bidder’, but its meaning is not ‘a sale in the Netherlands where goods are sold to the highest bidder’. Instead, the phrase has a conventionalized meaning referring to any auction where, instead of rising, the prices fall.\n\nPhraseology (from Greek φράσις \"phrasis\", \"way of speaking\" and -λογία \"-logia\", \"study of\") is a scholarly approach to language which developed in the twentieth century. It took its start when Charles Bally's notion of \"locutions phraseologiques\" entered Russian lexicology and lexicography in the 1930s and 1940s and was subsequently developed in the former Soviet Union and other Eastern European countries. From the late 1960s on it established itself in (East) German linguistics but was also sporadically approached in English linguistics. The earliest English adaptations of phraseology are by Weinreich (1969) within the approach of transformational grammar, Arnold (1973), and Lipka (1992 [1974]). In Great Britain as well as other Western European countries, phraseology has steadily been developed over the last twenty years. The activities of the European Society of Phraseology (EUROPHRAS) and the European Association for Lexicography (EURALEX) with their regular conventions and publications attest to the prolific European interest in phraseology. European scholarship in phraseology is more active than in North America. Bibliographies of recent studies on English and general phraseology are included in Welte (1990) and specially collected in Cowie & Howarth (1996) whose bibliography is reproduced and continued on the internet and provides a rich source of the most recent publications in the field.\n\nThe basic units of analysis in phraseology are often referred to as phrasemes or \"phraseological units\". Phraseological units are (according to Prof. Kunin A.V.) stable word-groups with partially or fully transferred meanings (\"to kick the bucket\", “Greek gift”, “drink till all's blue”, “drunk as a fiddler (drunk as a lord, as a boiled owl)”, “as mad as a hatter (as a march hare)”). According to Rosemarie Gläser, a phraseological unit is a lexicalized, reproducible bilexemic or polylexemic word group in common use, which has relative syntactic and semantic stability, may be idiomatized, may carry connotations, and may have an emphatic or intensifying function in a text.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2264437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264437", "title": "London Working Men's Association", "text": "London Working Men's Association\n\nThe London Working Men's Association was an organisation established in London in 1836. It was one of the foundations of Chartism. The founders were William Lovett, Francis Place and Henry Hetherington. They appealed to skilled workers rather than the mass of unskilled factory labourers. They were associated with Owenite socialism and the movement for general education.\n\n"}
{"id": "2264486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264486", "title": "Duras, Lot-et-Garonne", "text": "Duras, Lot-et-Garonne\n\nDuras is a commune in the Lot-et-Garonne department in south-western France.\n\nThe town is traversed by the Dropt river.\n\n\nDuras is twinned with the following cities:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2264507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264507", "title": "Hypokinesia", "text": "Hypokinesia\n\nHypokinesia refers to decreased bodily movement. One of the two categories of movement disorders, hypokinesia is characterized by a partial or complete loss of muscle movement due to a disruption in the basal ganglia. Patients with hypokinetic disorders like Parkinson's disease experience muscle rigidity and an inability to produce movement. It is also associated with mental health disorders and prolonged inactivity due to illness, amongst other diseases.\n\nThe other category of movement disorder resulting from damage to the basal ganglia, hyperkinesia, features an exaggeration of unwanted motion, like twitching or writhing in Huntington's disease or Tourette syndrome.\n\nHypokinesia describes a variety of more specific disorders:\n\nDopamine\n\nThe main neurotransmitter thought to be involved in hypokinesia is dopamine. Essential to the basal ganglionic-thalamocortical loop, which processes motor function, dopamine depletion is common in these areas of hypokinesic patients. Bradykinesia is correlated with lateralized dopaminergic depletion in the substantia nigra. The dopamine pathway in the substantia nigra is essential to motor function, and commonly a lesion in this area correlates with displayed hypokinesia. Tremor and rigidity, however, seem to be only partially due to dopamine deficits in the substantia nigra, suggesting other processes are involved in motor control. Treatments for hypokinesia often either attempt to prevent dopamine degradation by MAO-B or increase the amount of neurotransmitter present in the system.\n\nGABA and glutamate\n\nThe inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA and the excitatory glutamate are found in many parts of the central nervous system, including in the motor pathways that involve hypokinesia. In one pathway, glutamate in the substantia nigra excites the release of GABA into the thalamus, which then inhibits the release of glutamate in the cortex and thereby reduces motor activity. If too much glutamate is initially in the substantia nigra, then through interaction with GABA in the thalamus and glutamate in the cortex, movements will be reduced or will not occur at all.\n\nAnother direct pathway from the basal ganglia sends GABA inhibitory messages to the globus pallidus and substantia nigra, which then send GABA to the thalamus. In the indirect pathway, the basal ganglia send GABA to the globus pallidus which then sends it to the subthalamic nucleus, which then disinhibited sends glutamate to the output structures of the basal ganglia. Inhibition of GABA release could disrupt the feedback loop to the basal ganglia and produce hypokinesic movements.\n\nGABA and glutamate often interact with each other and with dopamine directly. In the basal ganglia, the nigrostriatal pathway is where GABA and dopamine are housed in the same neurons and released together.\n\nHypokinetic symptoms arise from damage to the basal ganglia, which plays a role in producing force and computing the effort necessary to make a movement. Two possible neural pathways enable the basal ganglia to produce movement. When activated, the direct pathway sends sensory and motor information from the cerebral cortex to the first structure of the basal ganglia, the putamen. That information directly inhibits the globus pallidus internal and allows free movement. The indirect pathway, traveling through the putamen, globus pallidus external, and subthalamic nucleus, activates the globus pallidus internal threshold and inhibits the thalamus from communicating with the motor cortex, producing hypokinetic symptoms.\nWhen levels of dopamine decrease, the normal wave-firing pattern of basal ganglia neural oscillations changes and the tendency for oscillations increases, particularly in the beta wave of the basal ganglia. Recent research indicates, when oscillations fire simultaneously, processing is disrupted at the thalamus and cortex, affecting activities such as motor planning and sequence learning, as well as causing hypokinetic tremors.\n\nDopaminergic drugs are commonly used in the early stages of the hypokinesia to treat patients. With increased intake, though, they can become ineffective because of the development of noradrenergic lesions. While initially the dopaminergic drugs may be effective, these noradrenergic lesions are associated with hypokinesic gait disorder development later on.\n\nSome Parkinson's patients are unable to move during sleep, prompting the diagnosis of \"nocturnal hypokinesia\". Physicians have experienced success treating this sleep disorder with slow-release or night-time dopaminergic drugs, and in some cases, continuous stimulation by the dopamine agonist rotigotine. Despite improved mobility during sleep, many Parkinson's patients report an extremely uncomfortable sleeping experience even after dopaminergic treatments.\n\nOnce the reaction to dopaminergic drugs begins to fluctuate in Parkinson's patients, deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus and internal globus pallidus is often used to treat hypokinesia. DBS, like dopaminergic drugs, initially provides relief, but chronic use causes worse hypokinesia and freezing of gait. Lower-frequency DBS in irregular patterns has been shown to be more effective and less detrimental in treatment.\n\nPosteroventral pallidotomy (PVP) is a specific kind of DBS that destroys a small part of the globus pallidus by scarring the neural tissue, reducing brain activity and therefore tremors and rigidity. PVP is suspected to recalibrate basal ganglia activity in the thalamocortical pathway. PVP in the dominant hemisphere has been reported to disrupt executive function verbal processing abilities, and bilateral PVP may disturb processes of focused attention.\n\nMany akinesia patients also form a linguistic akinesia in which their ability to produce verbal movements mirrors their physical akinesia symptoms, especially after unsuccessful PVP. Patients are usually able to maintain normal levels of fluency, but often stop midsentence, unable to remember or produce a desired word. According to a study of Parkinson's patients with articulatory hypokinesia, subjects with faster rates of speech experienced more problems trying to produce conversational language than those who normally spoke at slower rates.\n\nMethylphenidate, commonly used to treat ADHD, has been used in conjunction with levodopa to treat hypokinesia in the short term. The two work together to increase dopamine levels in the striatum and prefrontal cortex. Methylphenidate mainly inhibits dopamine and noradrenaline reuptake by blocking presynaptic transporters, and levodopa increases the amount of dopamine, generally improving hypokinesic gait. Some patients, however, have adverse reactions of nausea and headache to the treatment and the long-term effects of the drug treatment still need to be assessed.\n\nNew treatments include increasing the number of dopamine cells by transplanting stem cells into the basal ganglia or stimulating endogenous stem cell production and movement to the basal ganglia. The successful integration of stem cells can relieve hypokinetic symptoms and decrease the necessary dose of dopaminergic drugs. However, a variety of complications, including possible tumor formation, inappropriate cell migration, rejection of cells by the immune system, and cerebral hemorrhage are possible, causing many physicians to believe the risks outweigh the possible benefits.\n\nAnother treatment, still in an experimental stage, is the administration of nociception FQ peptide (NOP) receptor antagonists. This treatment has been shown to reduce hypokinesia in animal studies when increasing nociception FQ in the substantia nigra and subthalamic nucleus. Low doses can be taken with dopaminergic treatment to decrease the amount of L-dopa needed, which can reduce its long-term side effects and improve motor performance.\n\nDance therapy has also been shown to reduce hypokinesic movements and rigidity, though targeted more at the muscular aspects of the disorder than the neural activity.\n\nBradykinesia has been shown to precede impairment of executive functions, working memory, and attention. These cognitive deficiencies can be tied to nonfunction of the basal ganglia and prefrontal cortex, which is also linked to the motor-dysfunction of hypokinesia. Tremor and rigidity have not had observable connections to cognitive impairments, supporting the idea that they are not as involved in the dopamine pathway in the basal ganglionic-thalamocortical loop. Dopaminergic treatments have shown improvement in cognitive functions associated with hypokinesia, suggesting they are also dependent on dopamine levels in the system.\n\nOften debated is whether the efficiency, vigor, and speed of movements in patients with hypokinesia are tied to motivation for rewarding and against punishing stimuli. The basal ganglia have been tied to the incentives behind movement, therefore suggesting a cost/benefit analysis of planned movement could be affected in hypokinesia. Rewards have not been shown to change the aspects of a hypokinesic individual's movement. In fact, the motor planning and control of a patient with hypokinesia is already as efficient as possible (as shown by slightly faster, but generally the same movement after deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus). This suggests that hypokinetic individuals simply have a narrower range of movement that does not increase relative to motivation.\n\nOther studies have come to the same conclusion about rewards and hypokinesia, but have shown that aversive stimuli can, in fact, reduce hypokinesic movement. Dopamine is either less involved or has a more complex role in the response to punishment than it does to rewards, as the hypodopaminergic striatum allows more movement in response to aversive stimuli.\n\nGender\n\nMore men than women typically develop hypokinesia, which is reflected in young and middle-aged populations where females have displayed higher levels of nigrostriatal dopamine than males. In the elderly, however, this differentiation is not present. Typically, women exhibit more tremor in the beginning development of hypokinesia. In the disorder, men tend to display more rigidity and women more bradykinesic motor behavior.\n\nAge of onset\n\nHypokinesia is displayed in the brain and outwardly slightly different depending on when an individual is first affected. In young-onset hypokinesia (younger than 45 years of age), typically slightly more cell loss occurs in the substantia nigra with more displayed dystonia and muscle stiffness. In old-onset hypokinesia (older than 70 years of age), typically more of a hypokinesic gait and difficulty walking and no dystonia are seen. Both onsets can display resting tremor, although more generally found in old-onset cases.\n\nStress causes alterations of cerebral circulation, increasing blood flow in the supramarginal gyrus and angular gyrus of the parietal lobe, the frontal lobe, and the superior temporal gyrus of the left hemisphere. Also, an increase in cardiac activity and change in the tonus of the heart vessels occurs, which is an elementary indication of stress development. In patients with normal stress, an adaptive fight-or-flight response is usually triggered by sympathetic nervous system activation. Hypokinesia patients experience these typical stress symptoms on a regular basis because of damage to the basal ganglia system. Therefore, when a hypokinesia victim is under stress, he or she does not display a typical fight-or-flight response, placing the patient under greater danger from potentially harmful stimuli. Low-impact exercise, elimination of drug and alcohol use, and regular meditation can help to restore normal stress responses in hypokinesia patients.\n\nThough it is often most associated with Parkinson's disease, hypokinesia can be present in a wide variety of other conditions.\n\n"}
{"id": "2264514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264514", "title": "Tactical assault group", "text": "Tactical assault group\n\nA Tactical Assault Group (TAG) is an Australian Defence Force special forces unit tasked with responding to counter-terrorism incidents in Australia on land and maritime environments and also with conducting overseas special recovery operations.\n\nAt present there are two tactical assault groups based on opposite sides of the country. As such they are individually identified as being either TAG East, based in Sydney or TAG West, based in Perth. Both groups are structured to conduct offensive domestic counter-terrorist operations focusing on direct action and hostage recovery.\n\nEach assault group maintains a short notice capability to conduct military operations beyond the scope of State and Federal Police Tactical Groups. These aims are achieved through various highly specialised skill sets, niche capabilities and supporting Australian Defence Force (ADF) units such as those from the Special Operations Engineer Regiment and 171st Aviation Squadron.\n\nThe Sydney Hilton bombing on 13 February 1978 was the catalyst for the Commonwealth Government to initiate an urgent review of security procedures to combat the threat of international terrorism.\n\nThe anti-terrorist agencies (the Australian Federal Police and the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation) were placed on heightened alert and a Protective Security Coordination Centre was established. The Prime Minister proposed the establishment of a Standing Advisory Committee on Commonwealth State Cooperation for Protection against Violence, which would be primarily responsible for the coordination and funding of various organisations involved. He also directed that police forces around Australia absorb the counter-terrorist role. However, a study by Sir Robert Mark, at that time recently retired from the London Metropolitan Police, concluded that this was a task for 'sophisticated soldiery' and should not be given to the police but rather to the Army. Sir Robert’s advice was further strengthened by the Ironbark Report, written by Colonel John Essex-Clark, in which he advised the urgent formation of a special counter-terrorist force within the Army.\n\nIn August 1978, it was proposed to allocate the task of raising, training and sustaining the counter-terrorist force to the Special Air Service Regiment to follow similar lines from the British Army with their counter-terrorist team from within their SAS. The force was to be called the TAG and was to be commanded by the Commanding Officer SASR. On 3 May 1979, the Government approved the raising of a dedicated counter-terrorist force in the SASR, with final authorisation to raise the TAG given on 31 August 1979.\n\nThe tasks allocated to the group included:\n\n\nThe training began officially in March 1980 and the force became fully operational in the following May. In July 1980, the SASR was directed to develop an offshore (maritime) capability, concerned primarily with retaking Bass Strait oil rigs in the event of terrorist capture. These operations were to be handled by a dedicated water operations team which included 17 Clearance Divers from the RAN’s Clearance Diving Branch, who were placed under operational control of the SASR from 4 August 1980 as part of the TAG.\n\nTAG (East) was raised on 22 July 2002 in order to increase the ADF's domestic counter-terrorist capability. TAG (East) mirrors the original Tactical Assault Group, which was redesignated TAG (West). The dual basing enables the ADF to readily respond to simultaneous and geographically separate domestic incidents.\n\nAt present there are two tactical assault groups, TAG East and TAG West. Each belongs to a different parent unit and each protect a different domestic geographical area of Australia.\n\nTAG East draws its members from the 2nd Commando Regiment, and rotates one company through the role for a pre-determined length of time. It is also supplemented with personnel from the Royal Australian Navy's Clearance Diving Branch. The Royal Australian Navy component consists of an operations officer, a clearance diver (CD) assault platoon, and an underwater medic. Approximately 30 Clearance Divers are permanently attached to the group at any one time.\n\nTAG West draws its members from the Special Air Service Regiment and rotates one squadron through the role for a pre-determined length of time. TAG West has primary responsibility for offshore recovery operations, such as ship-boarding or incidents on oil platforms, and also international/overseas incidents.\n\nBoth have world-class training facilities including advanced outdoor close-quarters battle ranges, MOUT villages, urban CT complexes, full-size aircraft mock-ups, and sniper ranges.\n\nBoth participate in NATEX (national anti-terrorism exercises). Several times each year, exercises are conducted to test elements of the Australian Defence Force including the two tactical assault groups, Special Operations Command (Australia) and the Special Operations Engineer Regiment. The exercises also \ninvolve relevant components of state and territory police forces, such as police tactical groups and intelligence agencies such as ASIO. TAG-West conducts annual training courses for police tactical group members from each state and territory. Each year as part of the National Counter-Terrorist Committee Skills Enhancement Course, each state and territory sends several members of its PTG to participate in a concentrated three-week course to strengthen standards of policing in urban counter-terrorist tactics and ensure all states are training consistently to the same codes and standards of counter-terrorism.\n\n\nOn 12 April 2001, an SASR troop conducted a boarding of the fishing vessel \"South Tomi\" using two RHIBs launched from the South African Navy vessel SAS \"Protea\" in international waters south of Cape Agulhas, South Africa. The \"South Tomi\" had fled the AFMA fisheries patrol vessel \"Southern Supporter\" after being detected poaching Patagonian toothfish near Heard Island and McDonald Islands in the Southern Ocean.\n\nOn 20 April 2003, members from both Tactical Assault Group West and Tactical Assault Group East combined to board the \"Pong Su\", a 4,000 ton North Korean ocean freighter in Australian territorial waters. The ship was flying the flag of Tuvalu at the time, known as flying a flag of convenience. The boarding of the freighter was carried whilst the ship was underway in rough seas. The reason for apprehending the ship was that it was suspected of being involved in smuggling almost 125 kg (300 pounds) of heroin into Australia.\n\nOn 12 December 2016, Tactical Assault Group members (unknown if TAG(E) or TAG(W)) conducted a boarding of the 50m former Japanese whaling vessel \"Kaiyo Maru No. 8\" (KM8) in international waters in the Southern Ocean south east of Tasmania after it was intercepted by HMAS \"Adelaide\". The vessel had been monitored by Maritime Border Command loitering and circling more than 200 nautical miles off the southern coast of Australia and was suspected to be involved in drug smuggling. Details of the boarding were not released by Defence but by law enforcement, however, imagery released by Defence shows TAG members in Air Drop Rigid Hull Inflatable Boat (ADRHIB) deploying from \"Adelaide\". Tactical Assault Group members discovered 186 kilograms of cocaine worth $60 million on board KM8 with ten crew members nine from China and one from Singapore detained. \"Adelaide\" had been in the area taking part in Exercise Ocean Raider 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2264529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264529", "title": "Canada national rugby league team", "text": "Canada national rugby league team\n\nThe Canada national rugby league team represents Canada in international rugby league football tournaments.\n\nRugby league was first introduced to Canada in the 1900s but was quickly outlawed by Rugby Union officials and thus became Canadian Football. It wasn't until the late 1980s that rugby league was re-introduced to Canada at an amateur level, when a short-lived 4-team domestic competition, known as the Tri-Counties Rugby League, was established. Four teams competed in its first year, three in Canada and one in the U.S., the New York-based Adirondacks club.\n\nThe Canadian national team played their first game in 1987 against the USA. They then played sporadically throughout the 1990s and participated in the 1995 and '96 Rugby League World Sevens and Rugby League Emerging Nations World Cup in 2000. Following the 2000 Emerging Nations World Cup, the Canadian Rugby League Federation folded. As a result, the national team was disbanded and the sport remained dormant for 10 years.\n\nIn 2010, a new governing body, Canada Rugby League, was formed. Their first comeback game was in 2010 in the War at the Shore tournament, where they played New England Immortals, a New England representative team, and the New York Knights AMNRL club team, losing both games. The team's international comeback was later in the year in September in the inaugural Colonial Cup. Later that year they competed in the Rugby League Atlantic Cup in Jacksonville, Florida.\n\nCanada's first win since they were reformed came the following year in 2011 against Jamaica. They collected their second win in September, against the USA in the second game of the Colonial Cup. However, due to an earlier loss to the USA and the resulting aggregate scores, Canada was unable to win the Cup. Canada's international season finished up with a defeat against South Africa, in a warm up game before their 2013 World Cup qualifiers campaign.\n\nIn 2014, Stuart Donlan was appointed as head coach. Donlan's first game was the 2014 Colonial Cup's only fixture. He coached Canada to a famous victory which made them the Colonial Cup champions for the very first time. Despite Donlan's success, Aaron Zimmerle, the head coach of the Tweed Heads Seagulls, took over the main coaching role in 2015 in their 2017 World Cup qualifying campaign.\n\nAfter failing to qualify for the 2017 World Cup, the Canada Rugby League Board appointed Benjamin Fleming as coach on a three-year deal. Canada Rugby League Association Vice President David Graham said \"the board's decision to appoint Fleming as Head Coach was based on the hard work and passion he has shown since returning to the association last year.\"\n\n1. Andrew Giguere\n\n2. Ethan Langs\n\n3. Michael Mastroianni\n\n4. Emil Borggren\n\n5. Tony Felix\n\n6. Matt Calvert\n\n7. Brad Austin\n\n8. Charles Curran\n\n9. James Robertson\n\n10. Dean Parker\n\n11. Skyler Dumas\n\n12. Dominic Witschi\n\n13. Antoine Blanc\n\n14. Kyle Koivisto\n\n15. Eric Moyer\n\n17. James Gwatkin\n\n18. Tyler Doran\n\n19. Mike Gallagher\n\n21. Travis Depasquale\n\n22. Jordon Henry\n\nThe following tournaments is a list of notable international competitions that Canada has been competing in since their existence in 1987.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2264562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264562", "title": "Greece national rugby league team", "text": "Greece national rugby league team\n\nThe Greece national rugby league team (Greek: Ελλάδα εθνική ομάδα ράγκμπι λίγκ) represents Greece in rugby league. The national team has been participating in international competition since 2003, and have become an affiliate member of the Rugby League International Federation.\n\nGreek Rugby League was first formed in Australia by Australian's with Greek heritage. The founder of the Greek Rugby League was Colin Mylonas. \n\nThe team, nicknamed 'The Titans' first played international fixtures in 2003. Greece played a warm-up match against New Caledonia in late August winning the encounter 10-26. In September of that year, the Greek National Team played their first RLIF sanctioned game against Italy in September. The game was played in Australia at Jubilee Oval for the inaugural Ionio Cup. Greece were narrowly defeated 26–24.\n\nIn October 2005, Greece played an international match in Australia against Malta which they lost 24 points to 22 in front of an estimated crowd of 6,500. Greece then played a warm up match against Fiji A at OKI Jubilee Stadium in front of 1103 spectators. Fiji, who had just qualified for the 2008 Rugby League World Cup, won the match 34–12.\n\nIn 28 October 2006, Greece played Serbia in the first international match on Greek soil. Greece, supported by Greek-heritage players from Australia, won 44-26 in front of 150 home fans of the Glyka Nera Football Club, Athens. Greece were coached by former Western Suburbs Magpies player Steve Georgallis.\n\nGreece won their first ever Rugby League Championship in 2009 when they won the Australian Mediterranean Shield, defeating Italy in the Final 34-14. This was the first competition that the Greek side had competed in. The Greeks were captained by Wests Tigers player John Skandalis. Greece did not qualify for the 2008 Rugby League World Cup.\n2013 saw the creation of a domestic Rugby League competition in Greece. This competition was originally governed by the Hellenic Federation of Rugby League (HFRL).\n\nOn 27 October 2013 Greece defeated Hungary 90-0 in an international match played in Budapest in front of 500 spectators. The Greek side featured a mixture of players from the Greek domestic competition (8) and Australian-based (9) players including Braith Anasta and Michael Korkidas. Anasta kicked 15 goals from 15 attempts and scored 46 points in the win.\n\nIn October 2014, Greece were crowned European Championship C champions after beating Czech Republic in the final. This was their second international tournament victory\n\nLater in the same month, Greece competed in the inaugural Balkans Cup tournament held in Serbia. They beat the hosts in the final to win their third international tournament to add to their trophy cabinet, second in over a week.\n\nMatthew Ashill was the coach of the team for the 2015 European C/2017 Rugby League World Cup qualifying tournament and on 13 September 2015 he named a 22-man train-on squad with only domestic club players which caused controversy as it was a key event coming up for the national rugby league team. He explained his decision saying \"We have a totally new plan using just domestic players who will contribute to the growth and development of the sport here\".\n\nIn April 2016, the HFRL was suspended from the Rugby League European Federation (RLEF) following a year-long investigation for \"wilfully acting in a manner prejudicial to the interests of the RLEF and international rugby league.\" The HRFL was expelled from the RLEF in August 2016 for failing to meet membership requirements.\n\nIn March 2017, the Greek Rugby League Association (GRLA) was recognised by the RLEF as the official governing body for rugby league in Greece, gaining observer status. In March 2018 the GRLA were rewarded for what the RLEF described as \"significant progress rebuilding the national governing body and revamping its competition structure, with the support of the Greek Australian community\" by being granted affiliate status. \n\nIn September 2018, Greece began their qualification path for the 2021 Rugby League World Cup by winning the European Championship C South conference. They defeated Ukraine 28–26 at Dynamo Stadium (Kharkiv) and Malta Rugby League 60–4 at Glyka Stadium, Athens.\n\nIn May 2019, Greece faced European Championship C North conference winners Norway at New River Stadium, London, in the European Championship C decider. The match served as a curtain raiser to the League 1 round 9 fixture between London Skolars and Doncaster, Greece defeated Norway 56–26 to progress to the final stages of World Cup qualifiers. \n\nIn November 2019, Greece qualified for the 2021 Rugby League World Cup after participating in the final round of European World Cup Qualifiers in Pool B with matches against Scotland and Serbia. Greece were unable to host their designated match against Scotland, as the Greek government does not recognise the Greek Rugby League Association. Instead, the match was played in London at New River Stadium on 1 November. Greece were defeated 42–24. \n\nThe remaining match in Pool B saw Greece play Serbia, with the winners advancing to the 2021 Rugby League World Cup. Greece defeated Serbia 82–6 at Makiš Stadium, Belgrade.\n\nOn 16 January 2020, Greece were drawn into Group A of the 2021 Rugby League World Cup with England, Samoa and France.\n\nThey then entered the 2020 European Championship B where they'll play Russia and Serbia.\n\nSquad selected for the 2019 Rugby League World Cup Qualifiers:\n\n\nSince rugby league has been known to the nation of Greece since the 2000s many players of Greek birth or heritage have gone on to attain notability in representing either Greece, other nations, or appearing in major domestic leagues around the world, some notable Greek Rugby League Players include:\n\n\"A red box around the year indicates tournaments played within Greece\"\n\n\nSource:\n\n"}
{"id": "2264567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264567", "title": "National Assembly of the Socialist Left", "text": "National Assembly of the Socialist Left\n\nThe National Assembly of the Socialist Left () was an alliance of far-left groups in Mexico. The only assembly of the socialist left for the creation of a \"Socialist Front\" was held in Mexico City April 16–17, 2005. The appeal inviting to the meeting was signed by:\n"}
{"id": "2264574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264574", "title": "British Rail Class 455", "text": "British Rail Class 455\n\nThe British Rail Class 455 is an electric multiple-unit passenger train built by BREL York between 1982 and 1985. They are operated on suburban services in South East England by South Western Railway and Southern.\n\nThe SR-style classification 4HIT (HIgh density, Tightlock coupling) was proposed for the class, but was rarely if ever used.\n\nThe Class 455 was originally to be classified as the 510 class, at which point they were planned as a 750 V DC version of the . However, as the chopper control system at the time was not considered robust enough for the electrically rougher third rail Southern Region, they were fitted with second-hand camshaft control systems and thus classified as the 455 class.\n\nA total of 505 carriages were built by British Rail Engineering Limited's Holgate Road carriage works and together with 43 existing trailers from Class 508s, formed 137 four-car sets. The 455s allowed the and to be withdrawn, as well as allowing the Class 508s to be transferred to the Merseyside network for which they were originally intended. They also allowed other stock to be cascaded to the North London and Oxted lines.\n\nThere were three batches of Class 455s, all consisting of four cars: driving carriages at each end, an intermediate trailer vehicle and an intermediate motorised vehicle (powered by four EE507-20J of 185 kW carried on the bogies of the MSO vehicle, some recovered from Class 405s), all originally built to the standard class 3+2 seating arrangement with 316 seats. Technically, they are formed DTSO+MSO+TSO+DTSO. They have the same bodyshell as the and , but as they were designed for inner suburban services they do not feature first class seating, air conditioning or toilet facilities and are restricted to 75 mph (121 km/h). Like the Class 317/318, as well as the diesel , they are based on the British Rail Mark 3, with a steel construction, unlike the earlier PEP based , , , and , which had an aluminium alloy body.\n\nThe Class 455/8s were built between 1982 and 1984. These include all 46 Southern units (allocated to Stewarts Lane depot) and 28 allocated to South Western Railway (at Wimbledon depot).\n\nThe Class 455/7s were built in 1984/85. There are 43 four-car units, all allocated to South Western Railway at Wimbledon depot. They differ from the 455/8s in having a revised front end (air horns relocated next to the coupler and revised headlamp clusters) that was later used on the Class 317/2 and .\n\nThe 455/7s are easily distinguished from 455/8s as each TSO car is taken from a and has a noticeably different profile. The Class 508s transferred to Merseyrail were originally four-carriage trains but were reduced to three cars when transferred.\n\nThe Class 455/9s were built in 1985. These 20 units are all allocated to South Western Railway at Wimbledon depot. These are similar to the 455/7s, except that they had new-build TSOs; except for 455912, which has a TSO formerly part of the prototype DEMU (which also had the same bodyshell). 455913's MSO 67301 was formerly a Class 210 driving vehicle, with the one good end of vehicle 62838 (the vehicle was damaged after being crushed by a falling cement mixer lorry) mated with the former cab end. The rest of 62838 was scrapped.\n\nDeliveries commenced in 1982 to Strawberry Hill. On 16 November 1982, 455805 was unveiled to the press at Waterloo station. The first entered service on 28 March 1983. All were initially allocated to Wimbledon depot working services on the Central and South Western divisions. The Central Division 455/8s were transferred to Selhurst in 1986 after modifications to the depot were completed. All were delivered in British Rail blue and grey livery; it had been anticipated that some or all 455/9s would be painted in a green variant of the 'Jaffa Cake' London & SouthEast livery, but this was overruled by the BR Design Panel. From 1986 all 455s were progressively repainted in Network SouthEast white, blue and red livery. In May 1991, 455743 was renumbered 455750 and renamed \"Wimbledon Traincare depot\" in recognition of the depot obtaining BS5750 quality services accreditation.\n\nIn April 1994 in the lead up to the privatisation of British Rail, 455801-455846 were allocated to the Network SouthCentral shadow franchise and sold to Eversholt. The remainder were allocated to the South West Trains shadow franchise and sold to Porterbrook.\n\nIn February 1996, all South Western division 455s were transferred to South West Trains (SWT). From September 1996, SWT began to modify the Network SouthEast livery with a Stagecoach orange brand added. In November 2004, SWT took delivery of the first unit refurbished by Bombardier, Ashford. The work involved the replacement of the seats with high back Grammar seats as fitted to the in 2+2 configuration, the doorways have modified so that the sliding doors can open further, and a predominantly red livery being adopted. The last was completed in March 2008.\n\nIn April 2013 it was announced that the SWT units would be fitted with new traction equipment provided by Vossloh Kiepe. As part of the re-powering of the fleet, the air operated camshaft and electrical resistance grids will be removed, as well as the EE507 traction motors. The new equipment consists of DC to AC inverters of the Insulated-gate bipolar transistor (IGBT) type. This is needed as the replacement traction motors are AC rather than DC.\n\nFitting new traction equipment both improves Miles per Breakdown values and overall reduces operating and maintenance costs. As the trains will therefore be in the depot less, it will allow South West Trains to acquire additional rolling stock without the need to build a new depot.\n\nA manufacturing defect in the new traction equipment has caused three failures in service and five under test. Two of the failures in service involved unit 5726, the other involved unit 5901. In the most serious incident, on 7 July 2017, fragments, described as \"quite sizeable\" by the Rail Accident Investigation Branch, were scattered across platforms and an adjacent car park at Guildford station.\n\nAll units passed to South Western Railway with the South Western franchise change in August 2017. Despite recent upgrades to the units, South Western Railway will replace the fleet with Class 701 \"Aventra\" units from 2020.\n\nThe South Western Railway units are used on most London commuter rail routes from London Waterloo to South West London and neighbouring areas.\n\nOn 13 October 1996, the Network SouthCentral shadow franchise was taken over by Connex South Central with 455801-455846. In the late 1990s, 16 were repainted in Connex's white and yellow livery. In August 2001, the franchise passed to Southern with all 46 transferred. Some were repainted in Southern's white and green livery. Between February 2004 and February 2006, all were refurbished by Alstom, Eastleigh. New 3+2 high back seating as fitted to the and the removal of cab end gangways to facilitate the installation of driver's air-conditioning were notable features.\n\nA repainting programme started for the Southern units in June 2012. This included a repaint and interior changes, such as changes to the grab rails on the top between each door. 455808 was the first completed, followed by 455812 in August 2012. The project was completed in December 2014, 455801 being the last unit.\n\nAnother repainting programme begun in January 2018 for the 455s to become compliant with the PRM 2020 specifications with 455816 being the first one completed.\n\nSouthern Class 455 units are used on inner and outer suburban services out of London Victoria and London Bridge to destinations in South London and Surrey.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2264592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264592", "title": "Charnwood, Australian Capital Territory", "text": "Charnwood, Australian Capital Territory\n\nCharnwood is a suburb in the Belconnen district of Canberra located within the Australian Capital Territory, Australia.\n\nCharnwood's estate design was based on the Radburn principle. Under this design, houses were to face common parkland, with the suburb's streets servicing garages situated at the rear of the houses. The design failed in its application, however, as home owners built fences around the \"park side\" of their blocks, effectively screening the houses away from the common parkland. This created long, narrow, fenced walkways, with poor lighting and no neighbourhood surveillance. The original design for the network of pathways was to make it possible to walk from any point in the suburb to any other without directly crossing a road; pedestrian bridges can be used to cross the few major streets within the suburb.\n\nCharnwood is the location of the Charnwood centre shopping area which serves surrounding suburbs. The shopping centre includes several fast food outlets, a branch of the Labor Club, a Shell Service Station and a Woolworths. An emergency services station incorporating ambulance, fire and rescue services was opened in October 2013 by the Minister for Police and Emergency Services, and is located near the Charnwood shops at the south-west corner of Lhotsky Street and Tillyard Drive abutting Ginninderra Dr.\n\nCharnwood is home to Charnwood-Dunlop Primary School, Saint Thomas Aquinas Catholic Primary School, Saint Thomas Aquinas Catholic Church and Charnwood High School (now closed and housing the Canberra Christian Life Centre and the Brindabella Christian College Charnwood Campus).\n\nAccording to the Act Planning and Land Authority website, the suburb is named after: \"\"[a] former homestead in the Belconnen District; Henry Hall obtained a grant of of land which he named 'Charnwood', 1833; named after the Forest of Charnwood in England.\"\"\n\nStreet names in Charnwood are named after New South Wales pioneers and the suburb name 'Charnwood' was gazetted on 9 September 1971.\n\nEach year, there is an annual carnival call the 'Charny Carny' a unique event which benefits Saint Thomas Aquinas Catholic Primary School, Charnwood-Dunlop Primary School and Mount Rogers Scout Group. This carnival has the traditional purpose of building community spirit and donates funds for both the schools and the Scout Group.\n\nThe Charnwood District Playing Fields are home to the Ginninderra \"Tigers\" athletics club during the track season (October - March).\n\nFor the purposes of Australian federal elections for the House of Representatives, Charnwood is in the seat of Fenner.\n\nFor the purposes of Australian Capital Territory elections for the ACT Legislative Assembly, Charnwood is in the Ginninderra electorate.\n\nRocks in Charnwood are from the Silurian age. Deakin Volcanics purple rhyodacite is found in most of Charnwood. The Deakin Fault passes in the north west direction on the north east edge of the Deakin Volcanics, The fault dropped down the Deakin Volcanics and raised up the south west side. Hawkins Volcanics green-grey dacite and quartz andesite are in the north east on the other side of Deakin Fault.\n"}
{"id": "2264595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264595", "title": "Czech Academy of Sciences", "text": "Czech Academy of Sciences\n\nThe Czech Academy of Sciences (abbr. CAS, , abbr. AV ČR) was established in 1992 by the Czech National Council as the Czech successor of the former Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences and its tradition goes back to the Royal Bohemian Society of Sciences (founded in 1784) and the Emperor Franz Joseph Czech Academy for Sciences, Literature and Arts (founded in 1890). The Academy is the leading non-university public research institution in the Czech Republic. It conducts both fundamental and strategic applied research.\n\nIt has three scientific divisions, namely the Division of Mathematics, Physics, and Earth Sciences, Division of Chemical and Life Sciences, and Division of Humanities and Social Sciences. The Academy currently manages a network of sixty research institutes and five supporting units staffed by a total of 6,400 employees, over one half of whom are university-trained researchers and Ph.D. scientists.\n\nThe Head Office of the Academy and forty research institutes are located in Prague, the remaining institutes being situated throughout the country.\n\nThe establishment of the academy in 1992 follows several previous organizations:\n\nIn 2010 the academy adopted an open access policy to make its research outputs free to read and reuse.\n\nThe official structure of the AS CR consists of three areas (sciences about inanimate nature, life sciences, and humanities),\neach with three sections. Each of these 9 sections contains from 4 up to 8 institutes. An institut splits further to departments, laboratories, or working teams, depending on the size and the topic of the institute.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2264605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264605", "title": "Bert van Marwijk", "text": "Bert van Marwijk\n\nLambertus \"Bert\" van Marwijk (; born 19 May 1952) is a Dutch football manager who last managed United Arab Emirates national team. As a footballer, he played for the Go Ahead Eagles, AZ, MVV and Fortuna Sittard amongst other clubs, and represented the Netherlands once.\n\nIn 1982, van Marwijk began his transition into a manager, retiring as a player in 1988 and becoming a full-time manager. In 2002, he won the UEFA Cup with Feyenoord. Van Marwijk managed the Netherlands from 2008 until June 2012 and guided the country to the 2010 FIFA World Cup final, which was lost 1–0 in extra-time to Spain. He left this position after the Netherlands lost all of their three matches at UEFA Euro 2012. Van Marwijk is the father-in-law of former Netherlands international Mark van Bommel. He coached the Australian national team at the 2018 FIFA World Cup.\n\nVan Marwijk was born in Deventer, Overijssel. As a forward and a midfielder, he played 393 matches in the Dutch highest division, the Eredivisie. He began his career at Go Ahead Eagles, his hometown club. After six seasons, he left Deventer and started to play in Alkmaar, for AZ. In 1978, he moved to MVV Maastricht, playing there for eight seasons before playing one season for Fortuna Sittard. He ended his playing career in 1988 after playing one season for the Belgium Football Club Assent. Van Marwijk had opportunities to play for bigger clubs like Feyenoord or West Ham United, but because of injuries he never made a big transfer.\n\nIn 1975, van Marwijk was called up by Rinus Michels to play for the Dutch national team in a friendly match against Yugoslavia, which was his only cap.\n\nVan Marwijk began his professional managerial career at his former club Fortuna Sittard. His side finished seventh in the Eredivisie in 1998, and reached the KNVB Cup final in 1999. Fortuna had players like Mark van Bommel, Kevin Hofland and Wilfred Bouma during that period.\n\nIn 2000, van Marwijk became the manager of Rotterdam-based club Feyenoord. In his first season, he led Feyenoord to a second-place finish in the Eredivisie and in his second season, 2001–02, he had one of the biggest successes of his career. After beating SC Freiburg, Rangers, PSV and Internazionale in the knock-out stage, he won the UEFA Cup final after beating Borussia Dortmund in the final, 3–2. Feyenoord ended in third place in the league with van Marwijk in the 2001–02, 2002–03 and 2003–04 seasons. In July 2004, he became manager of German Bundesliga club Borussia Dortmund; he was succeeded at Feyenoord by Ruud Gullit.\n\nIn both of his first two seasons with Dortmund, 2004–05 and 2005–06, van Marwijk ended seventh in the Bundesliga table. During his third season, his side was stagnating, situated mid-table in ninth, whereupon van Marwijk and the club announced that they would part ways at the end of the 2006–07 season. On 18 December, however, Dortmund and van Marwijk parted company earlier than announced; he was replaced by Jürgen Röber.\n\nIn June 2007, van Marwijk returned to Feyenoord, also bringing back Feyenoord veteran Giovanni van Bronckhorst from Barcelona. He also brought in Tim de Cler, Kevin Hofland and Roy Makaay, and with this team Feyenoord squad, he won the KNVB Cup in 2008 after beating Roda JC 2–0 in the final.\n\nVan Marwijk's return to Feyenoord would be short-lived; before the end of the 2007–08 season, it was announced van Marwijk would succeed Marco van Basten as head coach of the Dutch national team after UEFA Euro 2008. During his two spells as coach of Feyenoord, five seasons in total, they would finish second once, in 2000–01. Van Marwijk was succeeded at Feyenoord by Gertjan Verbeek.\n\nVan Marwijk's management staff as Dutch coach included former internationals Frank de Boer and Phillip Cocu, as well as Dick Voorn. In the 2010 World Cup, van Marwijk led the Dutch to the final against Spain after defeating Slovakia in the round of 16, Brazil in the quarter-finals and Uruguay in the semi-finals. They lost, however, 1–0 in extra time. He opted for a very hard style of play, especially during the final, in strong contrast with the Dutch football tradition.\n\nOn 8 December 2011, van Marwijk extended his contract with the Royal Dutch Football Association (KNVB) for four more years through to the summer of 2016, including participation in the 2014 World Cup and Euro 2016 tournaments. At the Euro 2012 tournament, however, the Dutch ended up without a single point and being widely criticized, prompting van Marwijk to resign on 27 June.\n\nOn 26 September 2013, van Marwijk became the head coach of German side Hamburger SV after refusing offers from Southampton and Sporting CP. On 8 February, Hamburg lost for their sixth consecutive league match and gave up three goals in their fifth-straight league match. The supervisory board at Hamburg met on 9 February 2014 to discuss the future of van Marwijk, opting to let him continue in his role. He was then, however, sacked on 15 February after Hamburg lost 4–2 to Eintracht Braunschweig. Hamburg had lost seven-straight league matches and a DFB-Pokal loss to Bayern Munich. His assistant coach, Roel Coumans, was sacked as well. Van Marwijk lasted 143 days at the helm of Hamburg.\n\nOn 26 August 2015, van Marwijk became the new manager of the Saudi Arabia national team on a one-year contact. On 3 September 2015, he managed his first game, winning 7–0 against East Timor at the 2018 Asian World Cup qualifiers. On 24 March 2016, he clinched qualification to the third (final) round by winning 2–0 against Malaysia. After criticism from local media for not staying in the country and watching league games, van Marwijk helped Saudi Arabia to directly qualify for the 2018 FIFA World Cup in their last game against Japan. Saudi Arabia qualified for their fifth FIFA World Cup and first since Germany 2006. But days after their last qualifying match, van Marwijk left the Saudi Arabia post having been unable to agree on a new contract with the Saudi Arabian Football Federation.\n\nOn 24 January 2018, van Marwijk was appointed as the new head coach of the Australia national soccer team. On 8 March 2018, it was announced that he will be replaced as Australian coach by Graham Arnold after the 2018 FIFA World Cup.\n\nOn 20 March 2019, van Marwijk became the new manager of the UAE national team. On 4 December 2019, UAE Football Association announced the sacking of van Marwijk following their 4-2 defeat to Qatar in the 24th Arabian Gulf Cup.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2264609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264609", "title": "List of suburbs in Greater Newcastle, New South Wales", "text": "List of suburbs in Greater Newcastle, New South Wales\n\nBelow is a list of suburbs located within the Greater Newcastle region in New South Wales, Australia. This region (officially the Newcastle statistical subdivision) comprises the local government areas of City of Newcastle, City of Lake Macquarie, City of Cessnock, City of Maitland and Port Stephens Council. Newcastle Greater Metropolitan area has a population of 493,466.\n\n"}
{"id": "2264615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264615", "title": "Asian Civilisations Museum", "text": "Asian Civilisations Museum\n\nThe Asian Civilisations Museum (ACM) is an institution which forms a part of the four museums in Singapore, the other three being the Peranakan Museum at Old Tao Nan School, the National Museum of Singapore and the Singapore Art Museum.\n\nIt is one of the pioneering museums in the region to specialise in pan-Asian cultures and civilisations. The museum specialises in the material history of China, Southeast Asia, South Asia and West Asia, from which the diverse ethnic groups of Singapore trace their ancestry.\n\nThe museum first opened at the Old Tao Nan School building on 22 April 1997 at Armenian Street, with exhibits largely centred on Chinese civilisation. With the restoration of the Empress Place Building, the museum established its new flagship museum there on 2 March 2003, rapidly expanding the collection to other areas of Asia. The Armenian Street branch closed for renovations on 1 January 2006 and reopened on 25 April 2008 as the Peranakan Museum, specialising in Peranakan culture. \n\nOn 16 September 2006, the Museum officially launched its new logo with a new slogan \"The Asian Civilisations Museum – Where Asian Cultures Come Alive!\". The logo shows the museum's location by the Singapore River. The reflected image highlights the Museum as a place for reflection while the orange represents activity and energy.\n\nIn late 2013, after undergoing a rebranding exercise, the Museum launched its new logo with a new slogan \"Singapore's Museum of Asia\".\n\nOn 16 September 2014, the Museum was named the top museum in Singapore and ranked ninth in Asia by TripAdvisor’s Travellers’ Choice awards. The Museum was the only Singapore museum ranked among Asia's top 10 museums.\n\nOn 15 November 2015, the Museum unveiled its new spaces after it started its revamp in 2014. The revamp is carried out in phases: Phase 1 was unveiled on 14 November 2015. Phase 2 was completed in April 2016, with further enhancements to follow.\n\nThe Chinese collection is represented by fine Dehua porcelain figures, Taoist and Buddhistic statuary, export porcelain, calligraphy and other examples of decorative art.\n\nThe South Asian Galleries feature statuary from a broad spectrum of periods including some fine Chola bronzes. Of particularly note is the Chola bronze sculpture of Uma, the consort of Shiva and that of Somaskanda. The early Buddhist art of India is also represented by works hailing from the Mathura and Gandhara schools, including a rare sandstone Mathura Buddha dating to the Kanishka era, and the head of a Gandharan Bodhisattva. Other areas of note include South Indian woodwork, Nepali-Tibetan bronzes, textiles, late medieval miniatures and colonial prints.\n\nThe Southeast Asian collections are broad in scope and are rich in ethnological material. Representing the aristocratic art of ancient Southeast Asia are Khmer sculptures, Javanese temple sculpture (some on loan from Leiden), later Buddhist art from Burma/Thailand and the Sinicised temple art of Vietnam. Peranakan gold, textiles, tribal ornament and theatrical masks are other strengths of the collection.\n\nThe Khoo Teck Puat Gallery is the permanent home for the cargo recovered from the Tang Shipwreck, a sunken 9th century trading ship bound for Iran and Iraq, discovered in 1998 off Belitung Island in the Java Sea. The recovered cargo comprises more than 60,000 well-preserved ceramics produced in China during the Tang dynasty (618–907), as well as objects of gold and silver. \n\nCertain gallery rooms are also used for temporary exhibitions. A recent exhibition included the display of the spectacular Bronze Age masks from Sanxingdui, Sichuan Province, China.\n\nThe museum has a restaurant, Empress, featuring traditional Chinese dishes in a contemporary setting, and a café, Privé ACM, offering all day dining. There are ballrooms and halls available for functions. The museum shop has souvenirs and a wide range of books on Asian art.\n\nPeranakan Museum\n"}
{"id": "2264639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264639", "title": "Netherlands national rugby league team", "text": "Netherlands national rugby league team\n\nThe Netherlands national rugby league team is the national rugby league team of The Netherlands in a sport that is virtually unknown in the Nederlands. It was formed in January 2003. The national team played its first international match in 2003 against Scotland A, where they lost 22–18.\n\nRugby league foundation year was in 2003 where it has regularly being played since 2003 under the NNRLB and has seen small domestic growth along the way. The first rugby league club match was played between Te Werve Bustards (Den Haag) and touring Essex Eels. After rugby league ceased in 2008 a new board the Nederlandse Rugby League Bond (NRLB) was entrusted to administer and grow the game in the Netherlands in 2009.\nThe Dutch participated in 1989 Student Rugby League World Cup in England, against Australia, England, France, New Zealand, Wales, Ireland and Scotland. The first rugby league match in Netherlands was a preparation match for the tournament against the French Army side at the Royal Military Academy in Breda. While in the late 1980s they faced Toulouse to earn a 20 all draw. Having played their first international against Scotland A in Sassenheim only narrowly losing 18 to 22, introducing the Rotterdam Cup in 2004 with a 24–14 loss to Scotland Students and debut 24 to 14 win against Serbia.\n2005 saw the Netherlands build on the previous season with the national team playing four internationals. The Netherlands were defeated by Georgia 34 – 14 in April. They then went on to win their other three internationals against Serbia, Scotland and Germany\n\nSerbia made the task of getting past the first round of European qualifiers all the more harder. The Netherlands suffered heavy defeats to Russia 40 – 14 and Georgia 57 – 16. As a consolation the Netherlands managed to defeat the other European newcomers Serbia 38 – 26. Netherlands finished 3rd in the Pool and failed to qualify for the 2008 Rugby League World Cup. The Netherlands capped off 2006 with a win against the Czech Republic 34 -28.\nRotterdam hosted the Nederlandse International Rugby League Nines Festival for visiting European teams between 2004 and 2007.\nAt present the NRLB are a nonprofit sports association for rugby league with their main goal to get the game exposure and attract more people to the sport. The NRLB have a short summer season (4 rounds + Finals) with the Netherlands 3V Sports Grand Prix 9's competition for clubs Capelle Spartans, Delft Rugby League, Nootdorp Musketiers and Te Werve Bustards, while they host teams for 13-aside matches including the annual clash with Oxford University Old Boys (in the Kermis Challenge) and varying teams from the UK. Netherlands as national and developmental squads have participated in away tours in tournaments such as the Heidelberg 9's in Germany and UK based events.\nIn recent seasons the Dutch have also participated in a Cross Border Challenge with select German clubs, National Selection matches (Select GPN vs Residents) and promotional games (combined squad vs Capelle Spartans). At youth level this year, the Dutch staged a BARLA U17 tour against a Netherlands Tasman U17 select in July at Nootdorp and Delft.\nLike most developing rugby league nations there are restrictions that the Dutch board face within early stages of development like funding, sponsorship, support and promotion.\nThe Dutch ten-year plan is to have a fully self-supportive domestic competition running for at least 6 months of the year and to have multiple self-standing Rugby League clubs all over the country. The national squad back on the international stage competing with the best. The Nederlandse Rugby League Bond gained Observer membership status from the Rugby League European Federation in February 2012.\n\nIn May 2013, Netherlands made 28th on the RLIF World Rankings after their match against Germany in a losing effort.\n\nThe Netherlands have played their first match in 2003 against Scotland A, losing 22 to 18. They then competed in the 2004 Rotterdam Cup, losing both their matches.\n\nThe Netherlands failed to progress past the preliminary stages of qualifying for the 2008 Rugby League World Cup, after being defeated by Georgia and Russia in 2006. They did however manage a victory against Serbia.\n\nFollowing these matches, the national team went on hiatus following a dispute between the Netherlands Federation and the RLEF. In 2009, a new board \" Nederlandse Rugby League Bond (NRLB) \" was appointed to run the Dutch game and re-establish relations with the RLEF. The Netherlands were re-admitted to the RLEF in 2010, and resumed international competition in 2013 with a friendly match against Germany. \n\nPrimary\n\nAlternative\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2264646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264646", "title": "Samuel Bowles (journalist)", "text": "Samuel Bowles (journalist)\n\nSamuel Bowles III (February 9, 1826 – January 16, 1878) was an American journalist born in Springfield, Massachusetts. Beginning in 1844 he was the publisher and editor of the \"Springfield Republican\", a position he held until his death in 1878.\n\nBowles was educated in public schools. After some time spent at the high school, he was finished at a private institution run by George Eaton, in Springfield. Bowles inherited the \"Republican\" from his father, Samuel Bowles (II) (1797–1851), who had established the paper as a weekly in 1824. At the age of seventeen years, he began working in the printing office. For a year his work consisted of the miscellaneous duties of office-boy and included everything except the writing of leading editorials. In 1844 he persuaded his father to publish the paper daily, and on 27 March of that year, the first daily issue appeared. The principal duties of the management of the new journal fell on young Bowles.\n\nThe winter of 1844–1845 he became ill, and he was obliged to spend some time in the South. A series of fifteen letters, descriptive of southern experiences, contributed to the paper at this time, were widely read. In December 1845, the \"Republican\" became a morning paper, and with the change followed the severe night-work for the editors. The father meanwhile devoted more attention to the counting-room, and the son occupied himself more exclusively with the editorial duties, in which he was ably assisted by Dr. Josiah Gilbert Holland, who continued with the paper as editor until 1857, and as a contributor until 1864.\nBy 1850 the \"Republican\" had acquired the largest circulation of any daily paper in New England, outside of Boston, and as fast as the money came in it was expended in increasing the plant. In 1851 the father died, and the entire management devolved on the young Bowles, who was then twenty-five years old. During the years that followed the time was occupied with incessant work and hard struggles. The paper was steadily growing in reputation and circulation, and its editor becoming known as an industrious, bold, and fearless journalist.\n\nBowles was highly involved in all aspects of the paper's operations and retained primary editorial control for most of his career. During his tenure, the paper gained its national reputation, though it remained largely regional and local in its concerns, featuring news from Springfield and surrounding small towns. At the time, the \"New York Tribune\" called it \"the best and ablest country journal published on the continent.\" In 1857 Bowles attempted to expand into the Boston market by partnering to publish the \"Boston Traveller\". As the new venture was largely unsuccessful, he left the partnership after a few months to return as editor of the \"Republican\". In 1872, Bowles decided to buy out full control of the paper, spinning off its publishing and binding business, Samuel Bowles & Company, to his minor shareholders. Inadvertently Bowles created his own competition when he alienated minor shareholder and twenty-year partner Clark W. Bryan, who soon purchased the fledgling \"Springfield Union\" and vastly expanded its production in the ensuing years. Bryan, formerly an editorial staff member and business partner of the Republican, would go on to found \"Good Housekeeping\".\n\nAlongside its news items, the \"Republican\" published sermons, poetry, short fiction, and took a strong moral and political editorial stance. During the controversies affecting slavery and resulting in the American Civil War, Bowles's paper supported, in general, the Whig and Republican parties and an anti-slavery agenda. In the period of Reconstruction under President Grant, his paper represented anti-administration or Liberal Republican opinions. In 1872 the \"Republican\" supported Horace Greeley in his campaign for the presidency. In the disputed election of 1876 he favored the claims of Samuel J. Tilden, the reform candidate who won the popular vote but lost the Electoral College. Subsequently, the paper became independent in politics.\n\nIn 1864 \"The Mason Auto Photographic Album\" was published with the reference on the inside first page to Samuel Bowles & Co. Springfield, Mass. The leather-bound book appears to be a yearbook for The College of New Jersey (now Princeton University) 1864 graduating class.\nThe long-running success of Bowles's paper was attributed not only to its subject matter and local relevancy but also to its lively, concise, and professionally written style. George S. Merriam in his \"Life and Times of Samuel Bowles\" (1885) described Bowles's style in the following way:\n\nHis style was admirable,—simple, direct, pure, forcible without being passionate, pungent without being vulgar, often delicately sarcastic and deliciously humorous, never egotistical, never suggesting the writer, always representing the journal, and this as the voice of the people,—he was by nature, by culture, by experience the model modern working journalist. He saw the world without, partly through others, but chiefly through its own words, interpreted to him by his own divine instincts. (p. 107) \nDuring his lifetime, and subsequently, the \"Republican\" office was a sort of school for young journalists, especially in the matter of pungency and conciseness of style, one of his maxims is \"put it all in the first paragraph.\"\n\nIn 1865, he made a journey to the Pacific coast with a large company, and in 1868 traveled as far as Colorado. In 1869, he again crossed the continent. He visited Europe in 1862, and again in 1870, 1871, and 1874; indeed, frequent trips were a necessity to him on account of ill health, his constitution having long since been impaired by over-work. Bowles published two books of travel, \"Across the Continent\" (1865) and \"The Switzerland of America\" (1869), which were combined into one volume under the title \"Our New West\" (1869). His \"The Pacific Railroad Open, How to Go, What to See\" was a small collection of papers that originally appeared in the \"Atlantic Monthly\" (Boston, 1869).\n\nWhile an author himself, Bowles was friends with notable men and women of American letters. Josiah Gilbert Holland, a novelist and poet, was both a friend to Bowles and an associate of the \"Republican\". Bowles was also a close friend and correspondent with the poet Emily Dickinson and her family. It has been speculated that he is the subject of Dickinson's romantic and submissive \"Master\" letters, though this is debated among scholars.\n\nIn 1848 Bowles married Mary Schermerhorn, and together they had ten children. Bowles died in Springfield in 1878, and he was succeeded as publisher and editor-in-chief of the \"Republican\" by his son Samuel Bowles (IV) (1851-1915). In 1884, Samuel Bowles (IV) married Elizabeth Hoar, the daughter of Ebenezer R. Hoar and niece of George Frisbie Hoar. They had two sons: Samuel, who became a journalist in Boston, and Sherman, who joined a newspaper in Philadelphia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2264649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264649", "title": "Battle Lines (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine)", "text": "Battle Lines (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine)\n\n\"Battle Lines\" is the 13th episode of the of the American science fiction television series \"\". \n\nSet in the 24th century, the series follows the adventures on Deep Space Nine, a space station located near a stable wormhole between the Alpha and Gamma quadrants of the Milky Way Galaxy, in orbit of the planet Bajor. In this episode, the spiritual leader of Bajor, Kai Opaka, is stranded with the crew on a world where the dead are resuscitated.\n\n, the spiritual leader of the Bajorans, comes aboard the station and requests a tour from Sisko, but during the tour, she subtly asks him to take her through the Wormhole. Against his better judgment he complies, and he, Bashir, Kira, and Opaka travel to the Gamma Quadrant. There they receive a distress signal from an unknown source. Opaka tells Sisko not to hold back on her account, so the group goes to investigate.\n\nThey find a planet with a network of satellites, one of which is malfunctioning. The runabout approaches the planet and one of the satellites attacks it, forcing them to crash land. Opaka dies in the landing, which devastates Kira; however, her mourning is interrupted by a group of people called the Ennis, led by Jonathan Banks' Golin Shel-la.\n\nThe Ennis explain that they are at war with a group called the Nol-Ennis, who could attack at any minute. They take Sisko, Bashir, and Kira to a cavelike dwelling and as predicted the Nol-Ennis attack within minutes. Many of the Ennis are killed fending off the attack, but after the battle Kai Opaka enters the cave, regenerated by some form of extraterrestrial nanotechnology. The same technology revives the Ennis and Nol-Ennis, but rather than a blessing it is a curse; both groups were sent to the planet as punishment for centuries of conflict, doomed to die over and over.\n\nAs Dax and O'Brien search for the group, Sisko gets the Ennis and Nol-Ennis to agree to meet in an effort to negotiate peace. Meanwhile, Kira must face her personal demons: years of fighting the Cardassians on Bajor have taken their toll on her and she has known nothing but violence since she was a child. However, while Kira is reconciling her problems, the Ennis and Nol-Ennis refuse to fix theirs and resume fighting.\n\nThe groups are revived once more and return to their respective camps, but by this time Bashir has discovered that the technology keeps those it revives (including Opaka) from leaving the planet. O'Brien and Dax find Sisko, and Opaka informs him that she will stay with the Ennis and Nol-Ennis. She says it is time for them to begin their healing process just as Kira has begun hers. Meanwhile, the Ennis and Nol-Ennis resume fighting. Before O'Brien transports Sisko, Bashir, and Kira to the runabout, Opaka tells Sisko that her work is there now, but reassures him that their paths will cross again.\n\nThe episode introduced several concepts that were important to the rest of the series, including the mythological beliefs of Kira Nerys from Bajoran history and the Bajoran spiritual leadership position of Kai.\n\nBoth SyFy and a writer for \"Medium.com\" recommended this as an essential episode to watch for an abridged \"Star Trek: Deep Space Nine\".\n\nGeek.com likened the Bajoran Kai to a \"space pope\" and is the second episode to include the character of Kai Opaka after her brief introduction in .\n\nIn 2013, Keith DeCandido gave the episode a warp factor rating of 6/10 for Tor.com, writing that it was \"not a great episode by any means, but a pretty decent, if standard, science fiction story.\"\n\nIn 2015, Den of Geek's David Burszan called the episode one of Jonathan Banks' 10 most geek-friendly roles for his portrayal of Ennis leader Golin Shel-la, writing, \"Apparently in the future, someone took that 'Send the mutants to the moon forever' protest sign from X-Men seriously, as the episode revealed that the two factions were sent there by their planet’s leaders because they couldn’t stop fighting.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2264677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264677", "title": "Wild (band)", "text": "Wild (band)\n\nWild was a five-piece classical female group. It was often compared to Bond because of the very similar makeup and style of both groups.\n\nAlthough most of the band was English, Iva Cojic and Andjelka Ristic were born in Serbia.\n\nWild played a range of different genres on their debut album \"Time\", and their music ranged from Latin beats to Celtic inspired. Wild also played the main theme of the TV Show, 'Robinson Crusoe', exclusively at their concerts. Their album, \"Time\", featured a version of the song \"The Eve of the War\" from \"Jeff Wayne's Musical Version of The War of the Worlds\", which was produced by Wayne himself.\n\nWild made their debut in 2005, when they were the ambassadors for the Spring Racing Carnival in Melbourne, Australia. Their music was constantly used on Channel 7.\n\nThe band also toured Malaysia in 2005.\n\nThe group has since split up. Two of the members are now part of Escala, a similar four-piece classical group who supported McFly in 2005 and appeared on \"Britain's Got Talent\" in 2008. Iva Cojic continued her career as a solo artist under the name Iva Ikon (singer/ pianist / songwriter).\n\n\n\"Time\" is the only album released by Wild. It contains 12 tracks with five of them composed by Tonči Huljić, who has composed tracks for Bond. It was released on 17 January 2004 in the UK.\n\n\n\nThis DVD contains a concert performed by Wild in London, England, at the London Hippodrome. The quintet played all the songs from their album \"Time\", including an extra song called \"Robinson Crusoe\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2264710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264710", "title": "Philip Bailhache", "text": "Philip Bailhache\n\nSir Philip Martin Bailhache, (born 28 February 1946) is a former Jersey politician and lawyer. He was elected as a Senator in the States of Jersey in October 2011 and served as an Assistant Minister to the Chief Minister. He previously held elected office as Deputy of Grouville 1972–1975. Between 1975 and 2009, he successively held office as Solicitor General, Attorney General, Deputy Bailiff and Bailiff of Jersey.\n\nBailhache was born in Jersey and was educated at St. Michael's Preparatory School and Charterhouse School, England.\n\nHis grandfather was a Jersey solicitor and served as Deputy for Grouville. His father was Lester Vivian Bailhache MA (1910–2005), a barrister called to the English Bar and an advocate in Jersey, he was Deputy of St Clement and subsequently a Jurat of the Royal Court of Jersey who served as Lieutenant-Bailiff of Jersey 1980–82.\n\nBailhache read Law at the University of Oxford, was called to the English Bar in 1968 and the Jersey Bar in 1969. He practised from the family law firm, Bailhache and Bailhache in Hill Street, St Helier.\n\nHis brother, William Bailhache, was appointed HM Attorney General in 2000 and Deputy Bailiff in 2009, and he was sworn in as Bailiff on 29 February 2015.\n\nBailhache served as a Law Officer of the Crown for 19 years, first as HM Solicitor General (1975–85) and subsequently as HM Attorney General (1986–93).\n\nIn 1994, Bailhache became Deputy Bailiff of Jersey, following the controversial removal from office of the previous Deputy Bailiff Vernon Tomes. He was appointed Bailiff of Jersey in 1995, in succession to Sir Peter Crill. As Deputy Bailiff and Bailiff, he was an ex officio judge of the Court of Appeal of Jersey. He was a judge of the Court of Appeal of Guernsey from 1995 to 2009.\n\nBailhache introduced several modernisations to Jersey's legal system. In 1997, he was the founding editor of the \"Jersey Law Review\" (from 2007 the \"Jersey and Guernsey Law Review\"). In 1998, he led the setting up and became the first chairman of the Jersey Legal Information Board, a project designed to use technologies to streamline the administration of justice and make Jersey court judgments more easily accessible as part of the worldwide free access to law movement. In 2008, he became the first chairman of the Governing Body of Jersey's law school, the Institute of Law, a not-for-profit organisation providing courses for candidates sitting the Jersey advocates and solicitors examinations and students taking the University of London LLB degree via the International Programmes.\n\nIn July 2005, the Policy and Resources Committee of the States of Jersey established the Constitutional Review Group, with terms of reference 'to conduct a review and evaluation of the potential advantages and disadvantages for Jersey in seeking independence from the United Kingdom or other incremental change in the constitutional relationship, while retaining the Queen as Head of State'. Bailhache was invited to chair the Group, which produced a 'Second Interim Report' in December 2007, presented to the States by the Council of Ministers in June 2008.\n\nBailhache retired from the office of Bailiff at the end of June 2009 and was succeeded by Mr Michael Birt. He continued to sit as a Commissioner (part-time judge) of the Royal Court of Jersey until July 2011.\n\nBailhache is an active member of the Commonwealth Magistrates and Judges' Association and became the Executive Vice-President in September 2009, following the retirement of Sir Henry Brooke.\n\nHis period of office as Bailiff was not without political criticism. Comments by Bailhache in his May 2008 Liberation Day speech about reporting by the international news media of investigations of child abuse in the island were criticised, but maintained as justified by Bailhache. On 15 July 2008, the States of Jersey Assembly overwhelmingly rejected a vote of no-confidence brought by Jersey Democratic Alliance member Deputy Shona Pitman, by 47 votes to three.\n\nBailhache was elected to the States of Jersey as deputy of Grouville in 1972, resigning his seat in 1975 on his appointment as Solicitor General.\n\nIn 2009, Bailhache and his wife were among prominent islanders to give public support to a campaign to introduce civil partnerships for gay people in Jersey. For many years, Bailhache has promoted reconciliation between the peoples of Jersey and Germany, especially in Bad Wurzach, where many islanders were interned during the Second World War.\n\nIn written evidence to Lord Carswell's 2010 inquiry into reform of Jersey's Crown Officers, including the role of the Bailiff, Bailhache concluded that \"the current system works extremely well and there is no reason for change\".\n\nIn July 2011, he announced that he was standing in the elections for the four vacant Senatorial seats in Jersey's October 2011 general election. He came top of the poll, receiving 17,538 votes (80.2% of votes cast). He subsequently stood for election to the post of Chief Minister, but was defeated by 27 votes to 24 by Ian Gorst on 14 November 2011.\nIn Christmas 2011 Bailhache played a small impromptu role in the local village pantomime of Grouville where his rendition of a popular tune on a washboard was a delightful surprise.\n\nBailhache has called for changes to the Channel Islands' relationship with the United Kingdom government, arguing that \"at the very least, we should be ready for independence if we are placed in a position where that course was the only sensible option\".\n\nOn 7 March 2012, the States appointed Bailhache as chairman of Jersey's Electoral Commission. The Electoral Commission was set up to examine the constitution of the States Assembly.\n\nIn 1989 he became one of the first two Queen's Counsel learned in the law of Jersey. He received a knighthood in the 1996 Birthday Honours. In 2006, he was awarded l'Ordre de la Pléiade (\"Grand Officier\" class) by l'Assemblée parlementaire de la Francophonie. He is an honorary fellow of Pembroke College, Oxford (elected 1995) and an Honorary Bencher of the Middle Temple (2003).\n\n"}
{"id": "2264727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264727", "title": "Lowrance Electronics", "text": "Lowrance Electronics\n\nLowrance is a manufacturer of consumer sonar and GPS receivers, as well as digital mapping systems. Headquartered in Tulsa, Oklahoma, with production facilities in Ensenada, Mexico, Lowrance employs approximately 1,000 people. The company is best known for its High Definition Systems (HDS) and add-on performance modules which include Broadband 4G Radar, StructureScan with SideScan and DownScan Imaging, Sonic Hub Audio, Sirius LWX-1 Weather, and NAIS Collision Avoidance.\n\nIn 2006, Simrad Yachting and Lowrance merged in a deal valued at $215 million, creating a new company named Navico. The Lowrance brand is wholly owned by Navico, Inc. A privately held, international corporation, Navico is currently the world’s largest marine electronics company, and is the parent company to leading marine electronics brands: Lowrance, Simrad Yachting and B&G. Navico has approximately 1,500 employees globally and distribution in more than 100 countries worldwide. www.navico.com\n\nLowrance, a designer and manufacturer of Sonar, GPS and Aviation instruments, was founded in Joplin, Missouri in 1957. In 2006, Lowrance was purchased by Simrad Yachting for $215 million. This merger went on to create Navico, now the largest leisure marine electronics manufacturer in the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2264734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264734", "title": "Prussian Nights", "text": "Prussian Nights\n\nPrussian Nights () is a long poem by Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn, who served as a captain in the Soviet Red Army during the Second World War. Prussian Nights describes the Red Army's march across East Prussia, and focuses on the traumatic acts of rape and murder that Solzhenitsyn witnessed as a participant in that march.\n\nOriginally it was Chapter 8 of his huge autobiographic poem \"Dorozhen'ka\" (The Road) that he wrote in 1947 as a \"sharashka\" (scientific research camp) inmate. The original poem did not survive, but in 1950–1951, working in a hard labour camp near Ekibastuz, Solzhenitsyn restored Chapter 8 and Chapter 9 (\"The Feast of the Victors\") as separate poems. The poem is in trochaic tetrameter, \"in imitation of, and argument with the most famous Russian war poem, Aleksandr Tvardovsky's \"Vasili Tyorkin\".\"\n\nThe poem is based on Solzhenitsyn's own experiences – he was a captain of an artillery battery which formed a part of the Second Belorussian Front, which invaded East Prussia from south-east in January 1945. The Soviet offensive followed the path of the disastrous offensive by the Russian Second Army under Alexander Samsonov during World War I; the comparison with the Soviet victorious offensive is one of the underlying themes of the poem.\n\nSolzhenitsyn was arrested soon afterwards, in early February, three weeks after the offensive had started. His arrest was partly due to his critique of the treatment of civilians. In the poem he recalls the pillages, rapes and murders committed by the Soviet troops taking their revenge on German civilians, the events which later resulted in the first part of the German exodus from Eastern Europe, \n\nSolzhenitsyn composed the poem—about twelve hundred lines and over fifty pages long—while he was serving a sentence of hard labor in Gulag camps. He is rumored to have written a few lines of the poem each day on a bar of soap and memorized them while using it. He also wrote about how composing this poem helped him to survive his imprisonment: \"I needed a clear head, because for two years I had been writing a poem—a most rewarding poem that helped me not to notice what was being done to my body. Sometimes, while standing in a column of dejected prisoners, amidst the shouts of guards with machine guns, I felt such a rush of rhymes and images that I seemed to be wafted overhead . . . At such moments I was both free and happy . . . Some prisoners tried to escape by smashing a car through the barbed wire. For me there was no barbed wire. The head count of prisoners remained unchanged, but I was actually away on a distant flight.\"\n\nHe wrote down the poem between the 1950s and 1970s. He made a recording of it in 1969; it was not published in Russian until 1974 when it was published in Paris, France. A German translation was done by Nikolaus Ehlert in 1976, and it was officially first translated into English by Robert Conquest in 1977.\n\nCritical reaction was mixed. The \"New York Times\" reviewed it thus: \"a clumsy and disjointed 1400 line narrative which can be called poetry only because it is written in meter and rhyme. Sent to any publishing house of émigré Russian journal bearing any name but Solzhenitsyn's, it would be rejected unhesitatingly.\" A reviewer in \"New York Review of Books\" called \"Prussian Nights\", \"for all its shortcomings, a powerful and moving work. The literary critic Clive James took a more positive view:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2264736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264736", "title": "Pyotr Tayozhny", "text": "Pyotr Tayozhny\n\nPyotr (Cheshuin) Tayozhny () (1887 - 1952) was a Russian sculptor. He studied at the Artistic Industrial School in Yekaterinburg together with his close friend, sculptor Ivan Shadr. \nLater he worked with Faberge in Moscow. Discouraged by the turmoil that followed the 1917 October revolution, he left Moscow with his wife and two daughters and settled for several years in the Altay region. His pseyudanym \"Tayozhny\" comes from those rural years, it originates from the word taiga. In the 1920s, after returning to the capital, Pyotr Tayozhny together with Shadr was one of the authors of the first designs of the order of Lenin, the highest Soviet award. He later specialised in miniature pieces for book covers which included Bas-reliefs of Soviet leaders, including Joseph Stalin and writers, including Aleksandr Pushkin, Maksim Gorky, Gustave Flaubert, as well as medals, one of them depicting Vladimir Lenin lying in state. The medal is now a collector's item and a good example of the 1920s Soviet cultural propaganda.\n"}
{"id": "2264742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264742", "title": "Great Depression in Australia", "text": "Great Depression in Australia\n\nAustralia suffered badly during the period of the Great Depression of the 1930s. The Depression began with the Wall Street Crash of 1929 and rapidly spread worldwide. As in other nations, Australia suffered years of high unemployment, poverty, low profits, deflation, plunging incomes, and lost opportunities for economic growth and personal advancement.\n\nThe Australian economy and foreign policy largely rested upon its place as a primary producer within the British Empire, and Australia's important export industries, particularly primary products such as wool and wheat, suffered significantly from the collapse in international demand. Unemployment reached a record high of around 30% in 1932, and gross domestic product declined by 10% between 1929 and 1931.\n\nThere were also incidents of civil unrest, particularly in Australia's largest city, Sydney. Though Australian Communist and far right movements were active in the Depression, they remained largely on the periphery of Australian politics, failing to achieve the power shifts obtained in Europe, and the democratic political system of the young Australian Federation survived the strain of the period.\n\nThe James Scullin Labor Government had just assumed power with the commencement of the Scullin Ministry on 22 October following the 1929 federal election, however just a couple of days later, \"Black Thursday\" would mark the start of the Wall Street Crash of 1929 and the subsequent global onset of the Great Depression. From the outset the government was buffeted by the effects of the global economic crisis. With the government unable to implement the deflationary Premiers' Plan, Labor had split by 1931 over how to deal with the crisis, with Treasurer Ted Theodore failing to implement his Keynesian inflationary plans, and New South Wales Premier Jack Lang losing office over his plans to boost the budget through a temporary cessation of interest repayments on debts to Britain and that interest on all government borrowings be reduced by 3% to free up money for injection into the economy. Labor defector Joseph Lyons helped to form the United Australia Party through the ending of the Nationalist Party of Australia and succeeded Scullin as Prime Minister of Australia from the 1931 federal election until his death in 1939.\n\nThus Australia, unlike the United States, did not embark on a significant Keynesian program of spending to recover from the Depression. Nevertheless, the Australian recovery began around 1932. Australians took consolation from sporting achievements through the Depression, with cricketer Don Bradman and race horse Phar Lap achieving long-lasting fame.\n\nThe Great War (World War I) had depleted Britain's savings and foreign investments, and wartime inflation had upset the United Kingdom's terms of trade. A sluggish economy in Britain naturally reduced British demand for imports from Australia throughout the 1920s and this had affected Australia's balance of payments. Throughout the 1920s the Australian unemployment rate floated between 6% and 11%.\n\nThe Great War had also caused many necessary infrastructure projects to be delayed or abandoned, many of which began in the 1920s, including the Sydney Harbour Bridge and Sydney's underground railway system in addition to the Commonwealth government beginning to fund major highways. New dams and grain elevators were built, and the rural railway network was expanded in nearly every state. Large sums of government money were made available to provide returned First World War servicemen with farmland and agricultural equipment under soldier settlement schemes.\n\nAll these publicly funded projects were paid for by loans raised by both state and federal governments. Most of these loans were raised on capital markets in the City of London at an average of £30 million per annum.\n\nIn 1910, the federal government introduced a national currency, the Australian pound, which it pegged to the pound sterling. In effect, Australia was on the gold standard through the British peg. In 1914, Britain removed the pound sterling from the gold standard, creating inflation pressures. Britain returned the pound sterling to the gold standard in 1925 at pre-1913 parity, effectively revaluing both currencies significantly and unleashing crushing deflationary pressures and falling export demand. This had the immediate effect of making British and Australian exports far less competitive in non-British markets, and affected Australia's terms of trade.\n\nIn 1929, as an emergency measure during the Great Depression, Australia left the gold standard, resulting in a devaluation relative to sterling. A variety of pegs to sterling applied until December 1931, when the government set a rate of £1 Australian = 16 shillings sterling. This was intended to ease entry of Australian goods into the British and other linked markets.\n\nFalling export demand and commodity prices placed massive downward pressures on wages, particularly in industries such as coal mining. Due to falling prices, bosses were unable to pay the wages that workers wanted. The result was a series of crippling strikes in many sectors of the economy in the late 1920s. Coal miners' strikes in the winter of 1929 brought much of the economy to its knees. A riot at a picket line in the Hunter Region mining town of Rothbury saw police shoot one teenage coal miner dead.\n\nThe conservative Prime Minister of Australia, Stanley Bruce, wished to dismantle the conciliation and arbitration system of judicially supervised collective bargaining which had been the cornerstone of Australia's industrial relations system since the 1900s, which would allow employers alone to increase or decrease employee wages in response to economic and market conditions.\n\nThe opposition Australian Labor Party, led by James Scullin, successfully depicted Stanley Bruce as wanting to destroy Australia's high wages and working conditions in the 1929 federal election. Scullin was elected Prime Minister in a landslide which saw Stanley Bruce voted out as the Member for Flinders, the only time until the 2007 federal election that a sitting Prime Minister lost his seat.\n\nThe James Scullin Labor Government had just assumed power with the commencement of the Scullin Ministry on 22 October following the 1929 federal election, however just a couple of days later, Black Thursday would mark the start of the Wall Street Crash of 1929 and the subsequent global onset of the Great Depression. From the outset the Scullin administration was buffeted by the effects of the global economic crisis.\n\nThroughout Scullin's term, commodity prices continued to fall, unemployment rose, and Australia's big cities were depopulated as thousands of unemployed men took to the countryside in search of menial agricultural work. The stagnant economy had reduced economic activity and therefore tax revenues. However, the debt commitments of both state and federal governments remained the same. Australia became severely at risk of defaulting on its foreign debt which had been accumulated during the relative prosperity and infrastructure-building frenzy of the 1920s.\n\nThe Great Depression in Australia saw huge levels of unemployment and economic suffering amid plummeting export income. Although the economic downturn was a product of international events, Australian governments grappled with how to respond. Conventional economists said governments should pursue deflationary policies. Radicals proposed inflationary responses and increased government spending. Division emerged within the Labor Party over how to respond.\n\nIn August 1930, Scullin invited Sir Otto Niemeyer of the Bank of England to come to Australia to advise on economic policy. Niemeyer met with Federal and State leaders at a conference in Melbourne where he recommended a traditional deflationary response of balanced budgets to combat Australia's high levels of debt and insisted that interest on loans be met. It entailed the balancing of the budget through expenditure and wage cuts, without additional overseas borrowing, necessitating reductions in social welfare programs, defence spending and other sweeping cutbacks. The Premiers and Prime Minister Scullin agreed to this \"Melbourne Plan\", which would go on to form the basis of the Premiers' Plan. Ted Theodore, Treasurer in Scullin's Government, supported an \"inflationary\" policy of increased government spending in times of a recession, a view espoused in 1936 by John Maynard Keynes. The Senate and Commonwealth Bank (then also acting as the country's central bank) rejected Theodore's spending plans. The Labor Premier of New South Wales meanwhile announced the Lang Plan in February 1931, which included a temporary cessation of interest repayments on debts to Britain and that interest on all government borrowings be reduced to 3% to free up money for injection into the economy.\n\nIn 1929, as an emergency measure, Australia took the Australian pound off the gold standard, resulting in a devaluation relative to sterling. Starting in September 1930, the Australian banks began to slowly devalue the Australian pound, and a year later it had been devalued 30% against the Pound Sterling. This had the economic effect of increasing the cost of imported goods and increasing the cost of servicing government overseas debts, which were denominated in the overseas currency, typically in sterling.\n\nJack Lang, the Labor Party Leader of the Opposition in New South Wales and a fiery left-wing populist, campaigned vigorously against the provisions of the Melbourne Agreement. He was elected in a landslide in the NSW state election of 1930.\n\nScullin departed for an Imperial economic conference in London, necessitating an absence of five months, during which time he managed to secure reduced interest payments for Australia. With James Fenton as acting Prime Minister and Joseph Lyons as acting treasurer in his absence, Labor continued to negotiate Australia's economic response, with Fenton and Lyons advocating a more conservative fiscal approach and the unions and caucus calling for repudiation of debts.\n\nIn 1931 at an economic crisis conference in Canberra, Jack Lang issued his own programme for economic recovery. The \"Lang Plan\" advocated the repudiation of interest payments to overseas creditors until domestic conditions improved, the abolition of the Gold Standard to be replaced by a \"Goods Standard\" where the amount of money in circulation was linked to the amount of goods produced, and the immediate injection of £18 million of new money into the economy in the form of Commonwealth Bank of Australia credit. The Prime Minister and all other state Premiers refused.\n\nWith the rejection of the Theodore and Lang inflationary plans, the governments of Australia met to negotiate a compromise in 1931. The resulting Premiers' Plan required the Australian Federal and State governments to cut spending by 20%, including cuts to wages and pensions and was to be accompanied by tax increases, reductions in interest on bank deposits and a 22.5% reduction in the interest the government paid on internal loans.\n\nThe policy contrasted with the approach put forward by the British economist John Maynard Keynes and which was pursued by the United States, which held that governments needed to \"spend\" their way out of the Depression. The plan was signed by New South Wales Labor Premier Jack Lang, but he was a notable critic of its underlying philosophy and went on to pursue his own policy of defaulting on debt repayments, which led to confrontation with the Federal Scullin and Lyons Governments and resulted in the Lang Dismissal Crisis of 1932.\n\nThe Labor Party soon split into three separate factions. Jack Lang and his supporters, mainly in New South Wales, were expelled from the party and formed a left-wing splinter party officially known as the New South Wales Labor Party, commonly known as Lang Labor. The Minister for Public Works and Railways, Joseph Lyons, led a conservative faction, which believed in the deflationary approach of balanced budgets and cuts in spending and opposed defaulting on debt repayments. When the more radical Ted Theodore was reinstated as Treasurer by Scullin on 29 January, Joseph Lyons and James Fenton along with three others resigned from the government, joining the opposition Nationalist Party to form the United Australia Party. The Australian Labor Party would remain in government through the parliamentary term however, with Scullin as Prime Minister, and except for a brief stint by Scullin, Theodore as Treasurer.\n\nThe stance of Joseph Lyons and James Fenton against the more radical proposals of the Labor movement to deal with the Depression had attracted the support of prominent Australian conservatives, known as \"the Group\", whose number included future prime minister Robert Menzies. In parliament on 13 March 1931, though still a member of the ALP, Lyons supported a no confidence motion against the Scullin Labor government. The United Australia Party was then formed from a coalition of citizens’ groups and with the support of the Nationalist Party of Australia. Lyons quit the ALP to become parliamentary leader of the newly established United Australia Party, with John Latham, Nationalist Leader of the Opposition, becoming the new party's deputy leader.\n\nIn November 1931, Lang Labor dissidents chose to challenge the Scullin Labor government and align with the United Australia Party Opposition to pass a ‘no confidence’ and the government fell. At the 1931 federal election, the ALP were left with just 14 seats after losing 32 seats, though an extra 4 seats were won by NSW Lang Labor. The Lyons-led United Australia Party in Coalition with the Country Party commenced its first term of government in January 1932.\n\nBefore being voted out of office, the Scullin government had covered NSW's debt default. The federal government had paid NSW's bond installments and intended to recoup this money from the NSW Government. A dramatic episode in Australian history followed Lyons first electoral victory. When NSW Premier Jack Lang refused to pay interest on overseas State debts, the Lyons government stepped in and paid the debts and then passed the Financial Agreement Enforcement Act to recover the money it had paid. In an effort to frustrate this move, Lang ordered State departments to pay all receipts directly to the Treasury instead of into Government bank accounts. The New South Wales Governor, Sir Philip Game, intervened on the basis that Lang had acted illegally in breach of the state Audit Act and sacked the Lang Government, who then suffered a landslide loss at the subsequent 1932 state election.\n\nAustralia would recover relatively quickly from the global financial downturn, with recovery beginning around 1932. Lyons pursued an orthodox fiscal policy, favouring the deflationary economic measures of the Premiers' Plan, and refused to accept NSW Premier Jack Lang's proposals to default on overseas debt repayments. Australia entered the Depression with a debt crisis and a credit crisis. According to author Anne Henderson of the conservative Sydney Institute, Lyons held a steadfast belief in \"the need to balance budgets, lower costs to business and restore confidence\" and the Lyons period gave Australia \"stability and eventual growth\" between the drama of the Depression and the outbreak of the Second World War. A lowering of wages was enforced and industry tariff protections maintained, which together with cheaper raw materials during the 1930s saw a shift from agriculture to manufacturing as the chief employer of the Australian economy - a shift which was consolidated by increased investment by the commonwealth government into defence and armaments manufacture. Lyons saw restoration of Australia's exports as the key to economic recovery. A devalued Australian currency assisted in restoring a favourable balance of trade.\n\nDuring the Great Depression, different parts of Australian society experienced different hardships, challenges and opportunities. There was increased movement of many people to and from country areas in search of work. City and urban people planted gardens to produce fruit and vegetables. In some urban areas co-operatives were formed based on barter systems to share what was available. Shacks were built on the outskirts of large cities to house some who lost their homes, for example near the beach at Garie in the Royal National Park south of Sydney. There has been anecdotal evidence of families resorting to living in caves with authorities turning a blind eye as there were no other accommodation available.\n\nFor Australians, the decade of the 1930s began with problems of huge unemployment, because the fall of the stock markets on Wall Street reduced confidence throughout the world. Most governments reacted to the crisis with similar policies, aimed at slashing back government spending and paying back loans. The Australian government could do little to change the effects of the slump and the tough economic times ahead. This affected the country in many ways.\n\nBecause of economic downturn, people’s lives changed drastically. Australia had supplied huge amounts of wool for uniforms during World War 1, and many exports helped Australia achieve a high standard of living in the 1920s. The majority of the people of Australia lived very well prior to the fall, so they felt the effects of the depression strongly. Because of the severe economic contraction, the reduction of purchasing goods, employers couldn’t afford to keep excessive workers. A five-year unemployment average for 1930-34 was 23.4%, with a peak of approximately 30% of the nation being unemployed in 1932. This was one of the most severe unemployment rates in the industrialised world, exceeded only by Germany.\n\nMany hundreds of thousands of Australians suddenly faced the humiliation of poverty and unemployment. This was still the era of traditional social family structure, where the man was expected to be the sole bread winner. Soup kitchens and charity groups made brave attempts to feed the many starving and destitute. The suicide rates increased dramatically and it became clear that Australia had limits to the resources for dealing with the crisis. The depression's sudden and widespread unemployment hit the soldiers who had just returned from war the hardest as they were in their mid-thirties and still suffering the trauma of their wartime experiences. At night many slept covered in newspapers at Sydney’s Domain or at Salvation Army refugees.\n\nThe limited jobs that did arise were viciously fought for. The job vacancies were advertised in the daily newspaper, which formed massive queues to search for any job available. This then caused the race to arrive first at the place of employment (the first person to turn up was usually hired.) This is depicted in the Australian film \"Caddie\".\n\nExtraordinary sporting successes did something to alleviate the spirits of Australians during the economic downturn. In a Sheffield Shield cricket match at the Sydney Cricket Ground in 1930, Don Bradman, a young New South Welshman of just 21 years of age wrote his name into the record books by smashing the previous highest batting score in first-class cricket with 452 runs not out in just 415 minutes. The rising star's world-beating cricketing exploits were to provide much needed joy to Australians through the emerging Great Depression and Post World War One recovery.\n\nBetween 1929 and 1931 the racehorse Phar Lap dominated Australia's racing industry, at one stage winning fourteen races in a row. Famous victories included the 1930 Melbourne Cup, following an assassination attempt and carrying 9 stone 12 pounds weight. Phar Lap sailed for the United States in 1931, going on to win North America's richest race, the Agua Caliente Handicap in Tijuana, Mexico, in 1932. Soon after, on the cusp of US success, Phar Lap developed suspicious symptoms and died. Theories swirled that the champion race horse had been poisoned and a devoted Australian public went into shock.\n\nThe 1938 British Empire Games were held in Sydney at the Cricket Ground from 5–12 February, timed to coincide with Sydney's sesqui-centenary (150 years since the foundation of British settlement in Australia).\n\nUnlike the United States, where Franklin Roosevelt's inflationary New Deal attempted to stimulate the American economy, New Zealand where Michael Savage's pioneering welfare state tried to reduce hardship, or the United Kingdom where rearmament (from 1936) increased deficit spending, there was no significant mechanism for inflationary Keynesian economic policy responses in Australia.\n\nAustralia's recovery during the 1930s was led by the manufacturing sector.\n\nFederation in 1901 had granted only limited power to the federal government. For example, income taxes were collected by the State governments. Some argued that Australia's protectionist high tariffs worked to hurt the economy and that influential interest groups sought no change in this aspect of policy. Additionally, there was no significant banking reform or nationalisation of private businesses.\n\nThe devaluation of the Australian pound, abandonment of the Gold Standard, recovery of major trading partners like the United Kingdom and public works projects instituted by State and local governments led to a slow recovery. Unemployment, which peaked at 32% in 1932, was 11% at the start of the Second World War compared to 17.2% in the United States.\n\nFollowing Lyons' death in 1939, Robert Menzies assumed the United Australia Party leadership and the prime ministership, however the 1940 federal election resulted in a hung parliament. A year later, Menzies' minority government was brought down in the House of Representatives when the two independents crossed the floor and switched their support to Labor, bringing John Curtin to power during World War II. At the 1943 federal election, Curtin led Labor to their greatest House of Representatives victory both in terms of proportion of seats and their strongest national two-party vote. Curtin died in 1945 however, and was succeeded as Labor leader and prime minister by Ben Chifley, who would lead Labor to their first successful federal re-election attempt at the 1946 federal election, before their defeat at the 1949 federal election by the Menzies-led Liberal Party of Australia in Coalition with the Country Party. The comprehensive economic and social reforms and reformist nature of the Chifley Labor government was such that between 1946 and 1949, the Australian Parliament passed 299 Acts, a record until then, well beyond Labor's Andrew Fisher's 113 Acts from 1910 to 1913.\n\nCurtin and Chifley, who often used the spectre of another depression in their campaign rhetoric, utilised emergency wartime powers to introduce a command economy in Australia based on Keynesian principles. Unemployment was virtually eliminated in this period, being reduced to a record low of 1.1%. In 1942, income tax became federally controlled with the states conceding that the war effort needed a centrally controlled financial basis.\n\nIn 1944, Curtin announced the plan for a white paper on full employment. This white paper served a variety of roles; to establish the priority of full employment; to ensure the depression would not recur; and to propose ways to make these objectives possible. Dr H C 'Nugget' Coombs as director-general of the Reconstruction Ministry had major input into this policy. The economic theories proposed by J M Keynes in 1936 were a major influence on the white paper.\n\nBetween 1947 and 1949 Chifley also attempted to nationalise the banking sector, arguing that public control over the finance industry would assist in preventing further depressions. These plans saw bitter and protracted opposition from the media, conservative parties and the banks themselves. The High Court of Australia ruled that the proposed nationalisation of banks was unconstitutional. The government unsuccessfully appealed the decision in the Privy Council.\n\nIn 1949, the combined perceived threats of international and domestic communism and industrial unrest along with the public's waning support for extended rationing and intervention following the close of the War saw the return of Menzies to the prime ministership. Though Menzies was a conservative, his sixteen subsequent years in power saw the government continue the use of Keynesian methods in economic policy as well as further expansion of the Curtin and Chifley economic and social legacies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2264779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264779", "title": "Čazma", "text": "Čazma\n\nČazma is a town in Bjelovar-Bilogora County, Croatia. It is part of Moslavina.\n\nČazma is situated 60 kilometers east of Zagreb and only 30 kilometres from the center of the region - Bjelovar. \nČazma is situated on the slopes of Moslavačka gora, surrounded by fertile lowlands. The river Česma runs to the east of Čazma and the smaller river Glogovnica flows into it nearby, too.\n\nThe town of Čazma is one of the oldest towns in the Republic of Croatia. It was mentioned in 1094, when the Hungarian king Ladislav gave Čazma as a possession to the bishop of Zagreb. The year that is mentioned as the year of Čazma's foundation is 1226, when bishop Stjepan II Babonić established a parish, built a Dominican monastery and - today far known for its cultural worth, the Church of saint Mary Magdalene, which gave the parish its present name. The church is the only preserved monument of the earliest written eight hundred-year history of the city. It is a unique example of romanic architecture in northern Croatia and experts equate its value with the Zagreb cathedral. The church organ made in 1767 are one of the most beautiful in Croatia.\n\nJanus Pannonius (Latin: Ioannes Pannonius, Croatian: Ivan Česmički, Hungarian: Csezmiczei János, or Kesencei; 29 August 1434 – 27 March 1472) was born here who was a Croat-Hungarian Latinist, poet, diplomat and Bishop of Pécs. He was the most significant poet of the Renaissance in the Kingdom of Hungary and one of the better-known figures of Humanist poetry in Europe.\n\nThe town was occupied by the Ottoman Turks in 1552, who established their sanjak there. The town stayed under Ottoman rule for 54 years until it was liberated by Croatian Ban Toma Bakač Erdedi and his army in 1606.\n\nIn the late 19th and early 20th century, Čazma was a district capital in the Bjelovar-Križevci County of the Kingdom of Croatia-Slavonia.\n\nIts economy is based on small and middle-sized companies which manufacture final products from natural goods. Tradespeople, together with agricultural manufacturers, direct their development to services, production and tourist potential.\n\nHalf of the region where the town of Čazma is situated spreads out on agricultural land and as much as 44 percent is forested. Mineral wealth in the soil: quartz-sand, clay, stone etc., and especially springs of drinking water of great quality, enable various investments and building of plants, operation facilities and production lines.\n\nThe best known company from Čazma is Čazmatrans (transport company), which was established 1949.\n\nThe town has a population of 2,801, while the municipality consists of 36 villages, inhabited by a total of 8,077 people.\nAccording to the 2011 census, 98% of the population are Croats.\n"}
{"id": "2264784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264784", "title": "Ivan Shadr", "text": "Ivan Shadr\n\nIvan Shadr (), pseudonym of Ivan Dmitriyevich Ivanov (; , Shadrinsk, now Kurgan Oblast — 3 April 1941, Moscow) was a Russian/Soviet sculptor and medalist who took his pseudonym after his hometown of Shadrinsk.\n\nShadr studied at the Artistic Industrial School in Yekaterinburg from 1903 to 1907, and from 1907 to 1908 at the Drawing School of the Imperial Society for the Encouragement of the Arts in St Petersburg where the famous Nicholas Roerich was his teacher. He furthered his education under Auguste Rodin and Emile-Antoine Bourdelle in Paris (1910–1911), and in Rome (1911–1912).\n\nShadr's early works, such as the project for the Monument to the World's Suffering (1916), were designed according to the principles of Art Nouveau. After the 1917 Revolution he was an active participant in the execution of the Monumental Propaganda Plan, in particular, he sculptured reliefs depicting the Socialist ideological leaders Karl Marx, Karl Liebknecht, and Rosa Luxemburg, as well as some sixteen separate monuments to Vladimir Lenin.\n\nIn these years the characteristics of Shadr’s style were consolidated: an elevated, romantic organization of the figures and an emotional, dynamic composition. Among his most famous and characteristic works are sculptures \"The Cobblestone Is the Weapon of the Proletariat\" (1927) and \"Girl with an Oar\" (1936).\n\nIn the 1920s, Shadr together with sculptor Piotr Tayozhny came up with one of the first designs of the Order of Lenin, the highest Soviet award. Shadr also worked for Goznak, including on designing new Soviet money that included the symbols of that time: a worker, a peasant and a Red Army soldier. Those sculptures remarkable for their vigorous and dynamic typical characters can be seen nowadays in the Russian Museum (plaster casts) and in the Tretyakov Gallery (bronze sculptures).\n\nShadr died in Moscow and in 1952 was awarded the Stalin Prize posthumously. He is buried in Novodevichy Cemetery in Moscow, where his sculptural work can also been seen at the grave of Nadezhda Alliluyeva, the second wife of Stalin, and the grave of theater director Vladimir Nemirovich-Danchenko.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2264787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264787", "title": "Red Gate", "text": "Red Gate\n\nRed Gate (Russian: Красные ворота, \"Krasnye vorota\") were triumphal arches built in an exuberantly baroque design in Moscow. Gates and arches of this type were common back in 18th century Moscow. However, the Red Gate was the only one that survived until the 20th century. It was demolished in 1928 and the name still survives in an eponymous Moscow Metro station.\n\nThe Russian tradition of triumphal arches (or gates, as they were called during 18th-19th centuries) goes back to the time of Peter I. However, their specific Muscovite shape is a direct consequence of the Time of troubles of the early 17th century. Civil war, foreign raiders, and rampant crime of that period forced the landlords to fortify their town and country estates. In their simplest form, gates were cut through wooden palisade walls, and fortified with a small defensive platform perched above them. If money allowed, gates were fortified with a barbican tower, again with a raised wooden platform.\n\nIn the 18th century, this platform transformed into a raised structure above the main arch. Thus early Russian triumphal arches have a triangular, tripartite composition (two side pylons and a center piece, square or octagonal, raised above them). Contemporary 18th-century engravings present different variations of the type (notably, Alexey Zubov's 1711 engraving showing troops marching through seven different gates). It is believed that these gates influenced traditional Moscow architects in favor of Petrine Baroque, producing masterpieces like the Church of St. John the Warrior.\n\nAn extant example of private estate gates following the same layout belongs to the former Golitsyn estate on Volkhonka street (adjacent to Pushkin Museum).\n\nThe first true triumphal gates in Russia were installed by Peter I of Russia, intended for his generals' and his own triumphant rides. The earliest are dated 1697 (Capture of Azov) and 1703 (for the early victories of Boris Sheremetev, Anikita Repnin and Jacob Bruce in Great Northern War). Three sets of gates were set in\n\nThe second round of triumphal construction, commemorating the Battle of Poltava in 1709, resulted in seven gates being built in Moscow, notably the barbican gate on Bolshoy Kamenny Bridge. The third occasion, the Battle of Gangut of 1714, was celebrated in Saint Petersburg only. Finally, the Treaty of Nystadt was celebrated in both Saint Petersburg and Moscow. Peter's successors (Anna I of Russia, Elizabeth of Russia, Catherine II of Russia) had built various gates, but Red Gate in Moscow were the only ones that survived to 20th century.\n\nThe original arch on the site of Red Gate was built to commemorate the Battle of Poltava in 1709. Catherine I replaced it with a new structure in order to commemorate her own coronation in 1724. This arch burnt down 8 years later and was restored in 1742, for Elizabeth's coronation procession, which proceeded from the Moscow Kremlin to the Lefortovo Palace through the edifice.\n\nIn 1753, the wooden arch was demolished and replaced with a stone one. The design by Prince Dmitry Ukhtomsky faithfully followed that of Catherine I's architects. This was a refined specimen of baroque sensibility, with red-blood walls, snow-white reliefs, golden capitals, and 15 bright paintings representing \"Tsardoms of the Russian Empire\", coats of arms of Russian provinces, etc. A large portrait of Empress Elizabeth, surrounded by a lambent halo, was replaced with a double-headed eagle for Nicholas I's coronation in 1825. The structure was crowned by a golden statue of trumpeting angel. Around the gate, a spacious square was laid out.\n\nThe Red Gate was renovated in the spring of 1926. However, in December 1926, Mossovet approved demolition of the gate and other buildings, to make way for the Garden Ring expansion. The Red Gate was demolished June 3, 1927, despite protests from Ivan Fomin, Petr Baranovsky and other artists. A statue of an angel and other artifacts were preserved at the Museum of Moscow.\n\nThe square was still known as Krasnye Vorota (Red Gate), and in 1935 acquired a Metro station of the same name, designed by Ivan Fomin (underground station) and Nikolai Ladovsky (surface vestibule). In 1953, one of the famous Stalin's skyscrapers (the so-called \"high-rise building at the Red Gate Square\") was erected on the square to a design by Alexey Dushkin.\n\nThe square and station were renamed Lermontovskaya after Mikhail Lermontov in 1962 and were renamed back to Krasniye Vorota in 1986. Proposals to rebuild the arch were rejected, citing traffic congestion and the disparity between the modest size of the arch compared to the present-day width of the Garden Ring. The Angel of Glory, painted black, commemorates the loss of the Red Gate on the official coat of arms of Krasnoselsky District of Moscow. Also, first Moscow professional rehearsal studio was called \"Red Gate\", in honor of the triumphal arch.\n"}
{"id": "2264798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264798", "title": "Loktantrik Jan Samta Party", "text": "Loktantrik Jan Samta Party\n\nThe Loktantrik Jan Samta Party is a political party in India. Since 2004 it has a small representation in the Lok Sabha.\n"}
{"id": "2264800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2264800", "title": "West Midlands Collaborative Commerce Marketplace", "text": "West Midlands Collaborative Commerce Marketplace\n\nThe West Midlands Collaborative Commerce Marketplace (WMCCM) is an online marketplace that promotes the services of small-medium-sized engineering enterprises (engineering SMEs) in the English county West Midlands. It is financed by the European Regional Development Fund, based within Warwick Manufacturing Group at the University of Warwick at Coventry. The marketplace was founded by Professor Jay Bal with Dr Mark Swift. As of 2006, 2,000 firms had joined the website.\n\n"}
