{"id": "2247174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247174", "title": "Willie Colón", "text": "Willie Colón\n\nWilliam Anthony Colón Román (born April 28, 1950) is an American salsa musician and social activist. He began his career as a trombonist, and also sings, writes, produces, and acts. He is also involved in the politics of New York City.\n\nWillie Colón born in the South Bronx, New York, to American-born parents of Puerto Rican descent. He picked up the trumpet from a young age, and later switched to trombone, inspired by the all-trombone sound of Mon Rivera and Barry Rogers. He spent some summers at his maternal grandmother's sister's (La finca de Celín y Ramón) farm in the outskirts of Manatí, Puerto Rico on the road to neighboring Ciales, Puerto Rico.\n\nAt the age of 15 he was signed to Fania Records and at 17 he recorded his first album, which ultimately sold more than 300,000 copies. Due to fortuitous events, the main record producer at Fania at the time, Johnny Pacheco, recommended Héctor Lavoe to him.\n\nHe has also acted in films, including roles in \"Vigilante\" (1983), \"The Last Fight\" (1983) and \"It Could Happen to You\" (1994).\n\nColón has been a civil rights, community, and political activist since the age of 16. He has served as a member of the Latino Commission on AIDS and President of the Arthur Schomburg Coalition for a Better New York, member of the Board of Directors of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute. In 1995, Mr. Colón became the first person of color to serve on the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers (ASCAP) national board replacing Stephen Sondheim, and was also a member of the ASCAP Foundation.\n\nBeyond the trombone, he has also worked as a composer, arranger, and singer, and eventually as a producer and director. Combining elements of jazz, rock, and salsa, his work incorporates the rhythms of traditional music from Cuba, Puerto Rico, Brazil, and the other ancestral homeland, Africa, representing the mostly a one-way flow from Puerto Rico to the New York-based diaspora. \"His life and music commute back and forth between his home turf in the Bronx and his ancestral Puerto Rico, with more than casual stop-offs in other musical zones of the Caribbean.\" Colón \"makes the relation between diaspora and Caribbean homeland the central theme of his work,\" particularly in his 1971 Christmas album, \"Asalto Navideño\". The lyrics and music of the songs on this album \"enact the diaspora addressing the island culture in a complex, loving but at the same time mildly challenging way.\"\n\nHe went on to have many successful collaborations with salsa musicians and singers such as Ismael Miranda, Celia Cruz, and Soledad Bravo, and singer-songwriter Rubén Blades. On his website, Colón claims to hold the \"all time record for sales in the Salsa genre, [having] created 40 productions that have sold more than thirty million records worldwide.\"\n\nOne significant overarching theme in Colón's music, which draws from many cultures and several different styles, is an exploration of the competing associations that Puerto Ricans have with their home and with the United States. He uses his songs to depict and investigate the problems of living in the United States as a Puerto Rican, and also to imply the cultural contributions that Puerto Ricans have to offer.\n\nIn May 2007 Willie Colon sued Ruben Blades for breach of contract. This led to a series of suits and countersuits that lasted over five years. A book titled \"Decisiones\" detailing the inside story of this legal battle was written by Blades' former agent, Robert J. Morgalo and published in 2016 in English and Spanish website.The court documents can be read here and full transcripts of depositions and court rulings can be seen here\n\nColón released two singles,\"Amor de Internet\" and \"Corazón Partido\" to promote for his album \"El Malo Vol II: Prisioneros del Mambo\". In 2016 Colón began his 50th Anniversary Tour. In 2017 Colón announced his upcoming book titled \"Barrio de Guapos\" (\"The Secret Life of Willie Colón\") and the launching of his record label Willie Colon Presents. For 2018 Colón kicked off his \"Rumba Del Siglo\" (Jam of the Century) World Tour performing in U.S., Latin America and Europe to mostly sold-out venues. Because of the great success of his last tour, Colón will continue \"Rumba Del Siglo 2019\" (Jam of the Century 2019).\n\nWillie Colón campaigned and later became a special assistant and spokesperson for the first African- American mayor of New York City, David Dinkins from 1989 to 1993.\n\nIn 1994, in his first political run, Colón challenged Rep. Elliot Engel for the Democrat party primary for New York's 17th Congressional district. He was defeated 62% to 38%.\n\nIn 2001, Willie Colón ran for Public Advocate of the City of New York, receiving a respectable 101,393 votes.\n\nColón served for 12 years as New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg's representative advisor and liaison to the Latin Media Entertainment Commission (to which Robert De Niro and Jennifer Lopez serve as the celebrity chairs). Colón's base of operations, ELMALO, is in New Rochelle, New York.\n\nOn April 16, 2008, Colón announced his endorsement of U.S. Senator Hillary Clinton in her 2008 presidential campaign.\n\nOn April 25, 2010, Colón appeared at The National Mall for The Earth Day Climate Rally, along with Sting, John Legend, The Roots, Jimmy Cliff, Passion Pit, Bob Weir, Joss Stone, Robert Randolph, Patrick Stump, Mavis Staples, Booker T, Honor Society and Tao Rodríguez-Seeger.\n\nIn 2012 and 2013, Colón campaigned against Venezuelan president Hugo Chávez and the left-wing Bolivarian Revolution. Chávez addressed Colón via Twitter (\"shoemaker tend to your shoes\"). After Chávez' death, Willie Colón endorsed opposition candidate Henrique Capriles Radonski, vigorously using social media and composing a campaign theme \"Mentira Fresca\" (\"Fresh Lies\" which became the regime's candidate, Nicolás Maduro's nickname) the song went viral in Latin America, garnering millions of plays and downloads. Colón continues to be active in Venezuelan politics having pressed for the release of journalist Leocenis García and the release of political prisoner General Antonio Rivero\nOn May 26, 2014 after graduating from Westchester County Police Academy, Commissioner/Sheriff George Longworth swore William Anthony Colón into service as a Deputy Sheriff for Department of Public Safety. On December 13, 2017 Westchester County Deputy Police Commissioner Joseph Yasinski swore Deputy Sergeant William A Colón to the rank of Deputy Lieutenant\n\nIn addition to serving as a visiting professor and receiving honorary degrees for music and humane letters at various universities, in 1991, Colón received Yale University's Chubb Fellowship.\n\nIn 1999, Colón was a member of the Jubilee 2000 delegation to the Vatican along with Randolph Robinson of Trans Africa, Harvard economist Jeffrey Sachs, Bono from U2 and Quincy Jones. This initiative received Pope John Paul II's endorsement and later prompted President Clinton to forgive the US portion of the debt owed by some third-world countries. Jubilee 2000 resulted in the forgiveness of a total $100 Billion Dollars to debt ridden countries.\n\nIn September 2004, Colón received the Lifetime Achievement Award from The Latin Recording Academy. Over the course of his career, he has collaborated with notable musicians such as the Fania All-Stars, Héctor Lavoe, Rubén Blades, David Byrne, and Celia Cruz. Siembra, his record with Rubén Blades, was the best selling album for its genre. Colón has been inducted into the International Latin Music Hall of Fame in 2000 and the Latin Songwriters Hall of Fame in 2019.\n\nIn 2006, Willie Colón is portrayed by actor John Ortiz to Marc Anthony's Héctor Lavoe in the movie \"El Cantante\", starring Jennifer Lopez. The movie is about the life of Héctor Lavoe and it covered their early career as the top salsa duo from the 1960s through the mid-1970s.\n\nIn 2010, The \"International Trombone Association\" bestowed their Lifetime Achievement Award upon Willie Colón. In their journal they went on to say, \"Willie Colón has probably done more than anyone since Tommy Dorsey to keep the trombone before the public. Stylistically they are poles apart, Dorsey representing an ultra-smooth approach, Colón a Hard-edged roughness reportedly inspired by Barry Rogers. Unfortunately, Colón's public is largely Latino, so his music and contribution have gone unnoticed or ignored by the general press\"- Gerald Sloan, professor of music University of Arkansas.\n\nOn October 7, 2011, Westchester Hispanic Law Enforcement Association recognized Colón for his social and community activism and support.\n\nIn 2015 \"Billboard\" magazine named Willie Colón one of the 30 most influential Latin Artists of All Time.\n\nOn May 12, 2018, \"The Ellis Island Honor Society\" awarded Willie Colón the Ellis Island Medal of Honor which are presented annually to a select group of individuals whose accomplishments in their field and inspired service to the nation are cause for celebration. The Medal has been officially recognized by both Houses of Congress as one of our nation's most prestigious awards and is annually memorialized in the Congressional Record. \n\nOn October 31, 2018, Willie Colón was awarded the \"Lunas Del Auditorio Award\" by El Auditorio Nacional.A recognition granted by the National Auditorium to the best live shows in Mexico , the award is a replica of the sculpture of La Luna by sculptor Juan Soriano that is outside that enclosure. This award is transmitted by Televisa, TV Azteca, Channel 22 of the Ministry of Culture and Channel Eleven of the National Polytechnic Institute.\n\nColón has served as the chair of the Association of Hispanic Arts.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247181", "title": "The September When", "text": "The September When\n\nThe September When is a Norwegian rock band.\n\nThe band was formed in Stavanger in 1987, by vocalist Morten Abel, guitarist Tor Øyvind Syvertsen and keyboardist Helge Hummervoll, all former members of the band Mods. They signed a recording contract with Warner Music in Norway, and released their self-titled debut album in 1989. The band line-up was broadened by the addition of bassist Gulleiv Wee and drummer Stene Osmundsen before the following tour. Syvertsen left the band the following year, and Morten Mølster took his place.\n\nThe new line-up released their break-through album \"Mother I've Been Kissed\" in 1991. After releasing two more albums, \"One Eye Open\" in 1993 and \"HuggerMugger\" in 1994, The September When split up in 1996. The same year they released the compilation \"Absolute The September When - Prestige de la Norvège 1989-96\". Another compilation, \"The Best Of TSW\", got released in 2002 and contains remastered songs.\n\nAccording to the Morten Abel website, The September When reunited for a show on August 28, 2008 in Stavanger, Norway.\nThe band returned with a fifth studio album \"Judas Kiss\" on December 5, 2008. Guitarist Morten Mølster died on January 14, 2013.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247196", "title": "Raghubir Yadav", "text": "Raghubir Yadav\n\nRaghubir Yadav (born 25 June 1957) is an Indian film, stage and television actor, music composer, singer and set designer. He made his film debut with \"Massey Sahib\" (1985), in which he played the title role. He has won two International Awards as Best Actor for \"Massey Sahib\", FIPRESCI Critic's Award, Venice Film Festival, 1986 and the IFFI Best Actor Award (Male): Silver Peacock Award at the 11th International Film Festival of India, 1987. The film also featured writer and social activist Arundhati Roy. Raghuvir Yadav studied at the National School of Drama, New Delhi until 1977.\n\nYadav has performed as an actor and singer in over 70 plays and about 2500 shows, travelling in caravans, living in tents and performing on makeshift stages in villages, towns and cities of India with the Parsi Theatre Company (1967–1973). He was with the Rangoli Puppet Theatre, Lucknow (1973–1974), performing with glove puppets. At the National School of Drama Repertory (1977–1986), he acted in about 40 plays in over 2000 shows. He has also contributed to music, sets, costumes and masks.\n\nHe was seen in many milestone films in the following decades. Four films that he has acted in have received Academy Award nominations for Best Foreign Language Film (\"Salaam Bombay!\", \"Lagaan\", \"Water\" and \"Newton\"). Raghubir Yadav is one of the few Indian actor to have received the Silver Peacock Best Actor Award, at the International Film Festival of India. His most acclaimed role was as the drug addicted \"Chillum\" in \"Salaam Bombay!\" (1988). He has acted in \"Firaaq\". In 2011, he played the lead role in the film \"Dear Friend Hitler\", which takes its name from two letters Mahatma Gandhi wrote Adolf Hitler, in 1939 immediately before World War II and Christmas Eve 1940 after the war had started, to prevent and to stop the war. He has just finished the shooting schedule of the film \"Tilli\", in which he played role of a farmer. The film is directed by Punjabi cinema director Sagar S. Sharma.\n\nYadav started his television career with the television program \"Mungerilal Ke Haseen Sapne\" (1990), playing the lead character \"Mungerilal\". Before that, he had done a small role in Shyam Benegal's travel based series \"Yatra\" (1986). He also played minor roles in Shyam Benegal's Amaravathi ki Kathayein(1994-'95).\n\nLater he played the roles of Haji Nasruddin in the television program \"Mullah Nasruddin\" (also spelled as \"Mulla Nasiruddin\") and the lead in \"Chacha Chaudhary\". He also played the lead role for BI T.V. in \"Arjun Pandit\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247207", "title": "Jeff Stelling", "text": "Jeff Stelling\n\nJeffrey Robert Stelling (born 18 March 1955) is an English sports journalist and sport television presenter. He currently presents \"Gillette Soccer Saturday\" for Sky Sports and hosted their coverage of the Champions League between 2011 and 2015. \n\nHe also presented the Channel 4 quiz show \"Countdown\" (2009–2011) and ITV game show \"Alphabetical\" (2016–2017).\n\nStelling was brought up in a council house in Hartlepool. He attended Rift House Primary School and West Hartlepool Grammar School. After leaving school his first job was as a journalist at the \"Hartlepool Mail\" where he remained for four years.\n\nHis first broadcasting position was as a reporter on Middlesbrough F.C. on Radio Tees in the late 1970s. He was a sports presenter on London's LBC Radio \"Sportswatch\" programme in the early 1980s before moving to BBC Radio 2's weekend sports programme \"Sport on 2\", covering the Los Angeles and Seoul Olympic games.\n\nHe later spent time as a sports newsreader at TV-am, Channel 4, Eurosport and British Satellite Broadcasting before moving to Sky in 1992 to present coverage of horse racing, greyhound racing, snooker and darts. In 2003, he won a sports presenter special edition of \"The Weakest Link\". In 2004, Stelling was offered but rejected an offer from the BBC to front \"Score\"—their new Saturday results service. The job was given to Ray Stubbs.\n\nHe appeared in an advert for Sky Broadband in 2013 which spoofed a previous Sky Broadband advert which starred Bruce Willis.\n\nIn May 2013, Stelling joined \"twentyfour7 Football Magazine\" and wrote columns for the magazine's Dream Team. He's also been featured in the in-game presentation work for EA Sports' FIFA 15.\n\nIn 1994, Stelling became presenter of \"Sports Saturday\", which became \"Gillette Soccer Saturday\" in 1998, hosting a programme lasting up to six hours of football discussion and live reports on the afternoon's games with a panel of pundits including Frank McLintock, Chris Kamara, Rodney Marsh and the late George Best. Much of the programme's popularity is put down to Stelling, with \"The Guardian\" praising him for \"exceptional professionalism and élan\".\n\nAt the start of the 2005–06 Premiership football season, Stelling replaced Ian Payne as the host of Sky Sports' \"Ford Monday Night Football\" programme. However, Stelling's appointment coincided with a new, shorter format of the programme, with Stelling presenting the show live from the ground of that evening's game. Previously, the show had been presented from a studio, and had featured some coverage of the prior weekend's games. Moreover, in previous years on Monday nights without a live game, a \"Monday Night Football Special\" would be broadcast, which included only the analysis from the weekend's games. This appears to have been dropped from the 2005–06 season, indicating that Stelling's appointment is to a smaller role than that held by his predecessors.\n\nIn 2011, Stelling replaced the departed Richard Keys as the main presenter of Sky's live Champions League coverage and hosted between 2011 and 2015.\n\nOn 21 November 2008, it was reported that Stelling had been confirmed as the new host of the Channel 4 game show \"Countdown\" following the departure of Des O'Connor. He had reportedly also been approached for the role following the death of long-time host Richard Whiteley, but the role was given to former fellow sports presenter Des Lynam instead. Stelling began recording \"Countdown\" in December 2008, with the show's new assistant Rachel Riley, and started broadcasting in January 2009. He also appears during an episode of \"The IT Crowd\" in the same role. However, it was announced on 25 May 2011 that Stelling would be stepping down as presenter of \"Countdown\" at the end of the year, after three years at the helm, to concentrate on football, including his new Champions League role. He was replaced by Nick Hewer.\n\nIn August 2016, Stelling presented a new 10-part daytime game show for ITV called \"Alphabetical\". The show returned for a second series of 20 episodes in October 2017.\n\nOn 23 November 2007 he was awarded an honorary Doctor of Professional Studies by the University of Teesside.\n\nStelling was named Sports Broadcaster of the Year for four successive years by the Sports Journalists' Association, based on a poll of its members.\n\nOn 12 March 2010, he was granted the title of honorary freeman of his home town of Hartlepool, along with the town's former MP Lord Mandelson.\n\nStelling lives in Bishop's Waltham in south Hampshire with his wife Liz and two sons Robbie (born August 1998) and Matthew (born November 1999) and a daughter Olivia (born June 2003). They were married in November 1998 in Richmond upon Thames. He has completed the London Marathon on eight occasions and his best time is 3 hours and 28 minutes. In June 2013, Stelling, Colin Cooper, Craig Hignett and 12 others climbed Mount Kilimanjaro raising money for the children's charity The Finlay Cooper Fund. The climb raised £100,000.\n\nIn 2015, Stelling was appointed president of Hartlepool United after accepting a request from the club's owners.\n\nIn 2016, Stelling walked 262 miles from Hartlepool United to Wembley Stadium over 10 days raising over £420,000 for Prostate Cancer UK. He walked with his friend Russ Green, who was the Chief Executive of Hartlepool United at the time, and was joined by over 400 walkers including his friends from Sky Sports and the football world such as Chris Kamara, Matt Le Tissier, Charlie Nicholas and Paul Merson. On Day 3, Sir Ian Botham arrived to lend his support and walked with Stelling to Glanford Park, the home of Scunthorpe United, one of Botham's former clubs from his football career.\n\nIn 2017, Stelling again pledged to walk to raise money for Prostate Cancer UK. He covered the length of 15 marathons in as many days, starting from St. James's Park in Exeter, home of Exeter City and ending at St.James's Park in Newcastle, home of Newcastle United. The walk took place 2–16 June.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247211", "title": "James Loomis Madden", "text": "James Loomis Madden\n\nJames Loomis Madden (1892 – 1972) was acting chancellor of New York University from 1951 to 1952.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247212", "title": "Old Queen's Head", "text": "Old Queen's Head\n\nThe Old Queen's Head is a pub at 14 Pond Hill, Sheffield, South Yorkshire, England. It is a 15th-century timber framed building and the oldest surviving domestic building in Sheffield. It is now Grade II* listed.\n\nAlthough the Old Queens Head was built , the earliest known written record of the building is in a 1582 inventory of the estate of George Talbot, 6th Earl of Shrewsbury that included the furnishings of this building, which was then called \"The hawle at the Poandes\" or \"Hall i' th' Ponds\".\n\nAs a part of the Earl's estate, the building may have been a banqueting hall for parties hunting wildfowl in the nearby ponds. These ponds, which formed in the area where the Porter Brook meets the River Sheaf, are now gone, but gave rise to the local names Pond Street, Pond Hill (formerly Pond Well Hill) and Ponds Forge.\nBy the beginning of the 19th century the building was being used as a house. In 1840 a pub called the Old Queen's Head was opened in the building next door. Sometime after 1862 the pub expanded into the former Hall i' th' Ponds. Late in the 19th century, alterations and additions were made to the rear of the building.\n\nThe Queen in the pub's current name is likely to refer to Mary, Queen of Scots, who was imprisoned in Sheffield from 1570 to 1584.\n\nThe building has been Grade II* listed since 1952. It was refurbished in 1993 when it was controlled by the Tom Cobleigh pub company. It is now controlled by Thwaites Brewery.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247213", "title": "Hindu temple", "text": "Hindu temple\n\nA Hindu temple is a symbolic house, seat and body of divinity. It is a structure designed to bring human beings and gods together, using symbolism to express the ideas and beliefs of Hinduism. The symbolism and structure of a Hindu temple are rooted in Vedic traditions, deploying circles and squares. It also represents recursion and equivalence of the macrocosm and the microcosm by astronomical numbers, and by \"specific alignments related to the geography of the place and the presumed linkages of the deity and the patron\". A temple incorporates all elements of Hindu cosmos—presenting the good, the evil and the human, as well as the elements of Hindu sense of cyclic time and the essence of life—symbolically presenting dharma, kama, artha, moksa, and karma.\n\nThe spiritual principles symbolically represented in Hindu temples are given in the ancient Sanskrit texts of India (for example, Vedas and Upanishads), while their structural rules are described in various ancient Sanskrit treatises on architecture (Brhat Samhita, Vastu Sastras). The layout, the motifs, the plan and the building process recite ancient rituals, geometric symbolisms, and reflect beliefs and values innate within various schools of Hinduism. A Hindu temple is a spiritual destination for many Hindus, as well as landmarks around which ancient arts, community celebrations and economy have flourished.\n\nHindu temples come in many styles, are situated in diverse locations, deploy different construction methods and are adapted to different deities and regional beliefs, yet almost all of them share certain core ideas, symbolism and themes. They are found in South Asia particularly India and Nepal, Pakistan, in southeast Asian countries such as Sri Lanka, Cambodia, Vietnam, and islands of Indonesia and Malaysia, and countries such as Canada, Fiji, France, Guyana, Kenya, Mauritius, the Netherlands, South Africa, Suriname, Tanzania, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, the United Kingdom, the United States, and other countries with a significant Hindu population. The current state and outer appearance of Hindu temples reflect arts, materials and designs as they evolved over two millennia; they also reflect the effect of conflicts between Hinduism and Islam since the 12th century. The Swaminarayanan Akshardham in Robbinsville, New Jersey, United States, between the New York and Philadelphia metropolitan areas, was inaugurated in 2014 as one of the world's largest Hindu temples.\n\nA Hindu temple reflects a synthesis of arts, the ideals of dharma, beliefs, values, and the way of life cherished under Hinduism. It is a link between man, deities, and the Universal \"Purusa\" in a sacred space. It represents the triple-knowledge (trayi-vidya) of the Vedic vision by mapping the relationships between the cosmos (brahmanda) and the cell (pinda) by a unique plan that is based on astronomical numbers. Subhash Kak sees the temple form and its iconography to be a natural expansion of Vedic ideology related to recursion, change and equivalence.\nIn ancient Indian texts, a temple is a place for \"Tirtha\" – pilgrimage. It is a sacred site whose ambience and design attempts to symbolically condense the ideal tenets of Hindu way of life. All the cosmic elements that create and sustain life are present in a Hindu temple – from fire to water, from images of nature to deities, from the feminine to the masculine, from the fleeting sounds and incense smells to the eternal nothingness yet universality at the core of the temple.\n\nSusan Lewandowski states that the underlying principle in a Hindu temple is built around the belief that all things are one, everything is connected. The pilgrim is welcomed through 64-grid or 81-grid mathematically structured spaces, a network of art, pillars with carvings and statues that display and celebrate the four important and necessary principles of human life – the pursuit of artha (prosperity, wealth), the pursuit of kama (pleasure, sex), the pursuit of dharma (virtues, ethical life) and the pursuit of moksha (release, self-knowledge). At the center of the temple, typically below and sometimes above or next to the deity, is mere hollow space with no decoration, symbolically representing \"Purusa\", the Supreme Principle, the sacred Universal, one without form, which is present everywhere, connects everything, and is the essence of everyone. A Hindu temple is meant to encourage reflection, facilitate purification of one's mind, and trigger the process of inner realization within the devotee. The specific process is left to the devotee's school of belief. The primary deity of different Hindu temples varies to reflect this spiritual spectrum.\n\nIn Hindu tradition, there is no dividing line between the secular and the lonely sacred. In the same spirit, Hindu temples are not just sacred spaces, they are also secular spaces. Their meaning and purpose have extended beyond spiritual life to social rituals and daily life, offering thus a social meaning. Some temples have served as a venue to mark festivals, to celebrate arts through dance and music, to get married or commemorate marriages, commemorate the birth of a child, other significant life events, or mark the death of a loved one. In political and economic life, Hindu temples have served as a venue for the succession within dynasties and landmarks around which economic activity thrived.\n\nAlmost all Hindu temples take two forms: a house or a palace. A house-themed temple is a simple shelter which serves as a deity's home. The temple is a place where the devotee visits, just like he or she would visit a friend or relative. The use of moveable and immoveable images is mentioned by Pāṇini. In Bhakti school of Hinduism, temples are venues for puja, which is a hospitality ritual, where the deity is honored, and where devotee calls upon, attends to and connects with the deity. In other schools of Hinduism, the person may simply perform jap, or meditation, or yoga, or introspection in his or her temple. Palace-themed temples often incorporate more elaborate and monumental architecture.\n\nThe appropriate site for a temple, suggest ancient Sanskrit texts, is near water and gardens, where lotus and flowers bloom, where swans, ducks and other birds are heard, where animals rest without fear of injury or harm. These harmonious places were recommended in these texts with the explanation that such are the places where gods play, and thus the best site for Hindu temples.\n\nWhile major Hindu temples are recommended at sangams (confluence of rivers), river banks, lakes and seashore, \"Brhat Samhita\" and \"Puranas\" suggest temples may also be built where a natural source of water is not present. Here too, they recommend that a pond be built preferably in front or to the left of the temple with water gardens. If water is neither present naturally nor by design, water is symbolically present at the consecration of temple or the deity. Temples may also be built, suggests \"Visnudharmottara\" in Part III of Chapter 93, inside caves and carved stones, on hill tops affording peaceful views, mountain slopes overlooking beautiful valleys, inside forests and hermitages, next to gardens, or at the head of a town street.\n\nAncient builders of Hindu temples created manuals of architecture, called \"Vastu-Sastra\" (literally \"science\" of dwelling; \"vas-tu\" is a composite Sanskrit word; \"vas\" means \"reside\", \"tu\" means \"you\"); these contain Vastu-Vidya (literally, knowledge of dwelling). There exist many Vastu-Sastras on the art of building temples, such as one by Thakkura Pheru, describing where and how temples should be built. By the 6th century AD, Sanskrit manuals for in India. Vastu-Sastra manuals included chapters on home construction, town planning, and how efficient villages, towns and kingdoms integrated temples, water bodies and gardens within them to achieve harmony with nature. While it is unclear, states Barnett, as to whether these temple and town planning texts were theoretical studies and if or when they were properly implemented in practice, the manuals suggest that town planning and Hindu temples were conceived as ideals of art and integral part of Hindu social and spiritual life.\nThe \"Silpa Prakasa\" of Odisha, authored by Ramacandra Bhattaraka Kaulacara in the ninth or tenth centuries AD, is another Sanskrit treatise on Temple Architecture. Silpa Prakasa describes the geometric principles in every aspect of the temple and symbolism such as 16 emotions of human beings carved as 16 types of female figures. These styles were perfected in Hindu temples prevalent in eastern states of India. Other ancient texts found expand these architectural principles, suggesting that different parts of India developed, invented and added their own interpretations. For example, in \"Saurastra\" tradition of temple building found in western states of India, the feminine form, expressions and emotions are depicted in 32 types of \"Nataka-stri\" compared to 16 types described in \"Silpa Prakasa\". Silpa Prakasa provides brief introduction to 12 types of Hindu temples. Other texts, such as \"Pancaratra Prasada Prasadhana\" compiled by Daniel Smith and Silpa Ratnakara compiled by Narmada Sankara provide a more extensive list of Hindu temple types.\n\nAncient Sanskrit manuals for temple construction discovered in Rajasthan, in northwestern region of India, include Sutradhara Mandana's \"Prasadamandana\" (literally, manual for planning and building a temple). \"Manasara\", a text of South Indian origin, estimated to be in circulation by the 7th century AD, is a guidebook on South Indian temple design and construction. \"Isanasivagurudeva paddhati\" is another Sanskrit text from the 9th century describing the art of temple building in India in south and central India. In north India, \"Brihat-samhita\" by Varāhamihira is the widely cited ancient Sanskrit manual from 6th century describing the design and construction of \"Nagara\" style of Hindu temples.\n\nA Hindu temple design follows a geometrical design called \"vastu-purusha-mandala\". The name is a composite Sanskrit word with three of the most important components of the plan. \"Mandala\" means circle, \"Purusha\" is universal essence at the core of Hindu tradition, while \"Vastu\" means the dwelling structure. Vastupurushamandala is a yantra. The design lays out a Hindu temple in a symmetrical, self-repeating structure derived from central beliefs, myths, cardinality and mathematical principles.\n\nThe four cardinal directions help create the axis of a Hindu temple, around which is formed a perfect square in the space available. The circle of mandala circumscribes the square. The square is considered divine for its perfection and as a symbolic product of knowledge and human thought, while circle is considered earthly, human and observed in everyday life (moon, sun, horizon, water drop, rainbow). Each supports the other. The square is divided into perfect 64 (or in some cases 81) sub-squares called padas. Each pada is conceptually assigned to a symbolic element, sometimes in the form of a deity. The central square(s) of the 64 or 81 grid is dedicated to the Brahman (not to be confused with Brahmin), and are called Brahma padas.\n\nThe 49 grid design is called Sthandila and of great importance in creative expressions of Hindu temples in South India, particularly in ‘‘Prakaras’’. The symmetric Vastu-purusa-mandala grids are sometimes combined to form a temple superstructure with two or more attached squares. The temples face sunrise, and the entrance for the devotee is typically this east side. The mandala pada facing sunrise is dedicated to Surya deity (Sun). The Surya pada is flanked by the padas of Satya (Truth) deity on one side and Indra (king of gods) deity on other. The east and north faces of most temples feature a mix of gods and demi-gods; while west and south feature demons and demi-gods related to the underworld. This vastu purusha mandala plan and symbolism is systematically seen in ancient Hindu temples on Indian subcontinent as well as those in southeast Asia, with regional creativity and variations.\n\nBeneath the mandala’s central square(s) is the space for the formless shapeless all pervasive all connecting Universal Spirit, the highest reality, the purusha. This space is sometimes referred to as garbha-griya (literally womb house) – a small, perfect square, windowless, enclosed space without ornamentation that represents universal essence. In or near this space is typically a murti (idol). This is the main deity idol, and this varies with each temple. Often it is this idol that gives the temple a local name, such as Visnu temple, Krishna temple, Rama temple, Narayana temple, Siva temple, Lakshmi temple, Ganesha temple, Durga temple, Hanuman temple, Surya temple, and others. It is this garbha-griya which devotees seek for ‘‘darsana’’ (literally, a sight of knowledge, or vision).\n\nAbove the vastu-purusha-mandala is a superstructure with a dome called \"Shikhara\" in north India, and \"Vimana\" in south India, that stretches towards the sky. Sometimes, in makeshift temples, the dome may be replaced with symbolic bamboo with few leaves at the top. The vertical dimension's cupola or dome is designed as a pyramid, conical or other mountain-like shape, once again using principle of concentric circles and squares (see below). Scholars suggest that this shape is inspired by cosmic mountain of Meru or Himalayan Kailasa, the abode of gods according to Vedic mythology.\nIn larger temples, the central space typically is surrounded by an ambulatory for the devotee to walk around and ritually circumambulate the Purusa, the universal essence. Often this space is visually decorated with carvings, paintings or images meant to inspire the devotee. In some temples, these images may be stories from Hindu Epics, in others they may be Vedic tales about right and wrong or virtues and vice, in some they may be idols of minor or regional deities. The pillars, walls and ceilings typically also have highly ornate carvings or images of the four just and necessary pursuits of life – kama, artha, dharma and moksa. This walk around is called \"pradakshina\".\n\nLarge temples also have pillared halls called mandapa. One on the east side, serves as the waiting room for pilgrims and devotees. The mandapa may be a separate structure in older temples, but in newer temples this space is integrated into the temple superstructure. Mega temple sites have a main temple surrounded by smaller temples and shrines, but these are still arranged by principles of symmetry, grids and mathematical precision. An important principle found in the layout of Hindu temples is mirroring and repeating fractal-like design structure, each unique yet also repeating the central common principle, one which Susan Lewandowski refers to as \"an organism of repeating cells\".\nThe ancient texts on Hindu temple design, the \"Vastupurusamandala\" and \"Vastu Sastras\", do not limit themselves to the design of a Hindu temple. They describe the temple as a holistic part of its community, and lay out various principles and a diversity of alternate designs for home, village and city layout along with the temple, gardens, water bodies and nature.\n\nPredominant number of Hindu temples exhibit the perfect square grid principle. However, there are some exceptions. For example, the Teli-ka-mandir in Gwalior, built in the 8th century AD is not a square but is a rectangle in 2:3 proportion. Further, the temple explores a number of structures and shrines in 1:1, 1:2, 1:3, 2:5, 3:5 and 4:5 ratios. These ratios are exact, suggesting the architect intended to use these harmonic ratios, and the rectangle pattern was not a mistake, nor an arbitrary approximation. Other examples of non-square harmonic ratios are found at Naresar temple site of Madhya Pradesh and Nakti-Mata temple near Jaipur, Rajasthan. Michael Meister suggests that these exceptions mean the ancient Sanskrit manuals for temple building were guidelines, and Hinduism permitted its artisans flexibility in expression and aesthetic independence.\n\nA Hindu temple is a symbolic reconstruction of the universe and universal principles that make everything in it function. The temples reflect Hindu philosophy and its diverse views on cosmos and Truths.\n\nHinduism has no traditional ecclesiastical order, no centralized religious authorities, no governing body, no prophet(s) nor any binding holy book; Hindus can choose to be polytheistic, pantheistic, monistic, or atheistic. Within this diffuse and open structure, spirituality in Hindu philosophy is an individual experience, and referred to as kṣaitrajña (Sanskrit: क्षैत्रज्ञ)). It defines spiritual practice as one's journey towards moksha, awareness of self, the discovery of higher truths, true nature of reality, and a consciousness that is liberated and content. A Hindu temple reflects these core beliefs. The central core of almost all Hindu temples is not a large communal space; the temple is designed for the individual, a couple or a family – a small, private space where he or she experiences darsana.\n\nDarsana is itself a symbolic word. In ancient Hindu scripts, darsana is the name of six methods or alternate viewpoints of understanding Truth. These are Nyaya, Vaisesika, Sankhya, Yoga, Mimamsa and Vedanta – each of which flowered into their own schools of Hinduism, each of which are considered valid, alternate paths to understanding Truth and realizing Self in the Hindu way of life.\n\nFrom names to forms, from images to stories carved into the walls of a temple, symbolism is everywhere in a Hindu temple. Life principles such as the pursuit of joy, sex, connection and emotional pleasure (kama) are fused into mystical, erotic and architectural forms in Hindu temples. These motifs and principles of human life are part of the sacred texts of Hindu, such as its Upanishads; the temples express these same principles in a different form, through art and spaces. For example, Brihadaranyaka Upanisad at 4.3.21, recites:\nThe architecture of Hindu temples is also symbolic. The whole structure fuses the daily life and it surroundings with the divine concepts, through a structure that is open yet raised on a terrace, transitioning from the secular towards the sacred, inviting the visitor inwards towards the Brahma pada and temple's central core, as well as lifting him upwards into a symbolic space marked by its spire (shikhara, vimana). The ancient temples had grand intricately carved entrances but no doors, and lacked a boundary wall. In most cultures, suggests Edmund Leach, a boundary and gateway separates the secular and the sacred, and this gateway door is grand. In Hindu tradition, this is discarded in favor of an open and diffusive architecture, where the secular world was not separated from the sacred, but transitioned and flowed into the sacred. The Hindu temple has structural walls, which were patterned usually within the 64 grid, or other geometric layouts. Yet the layout was open on all sides, except for the core space which had just one opening for darsana. The temple space is laid out in a series of courts (mandappas). The outermost regions may incorporate the negative and suffering side of life with symbolism of evil, asuras and rakshashas (demons); but in small temples this layer is dispensed with. When present, this outer region diffuse into the next inner layer that bridges as human space, followed by another inner Devika padas space and symbolic arts incorporating the positive and joyful side of life about the good and the gods. This divine space then concentrically diffuses inwards and lifts the guest to the core of the temple, where resides the main idol as well as the space for the Purusa and ideas held to be most sacred principles in Hindu tradition. The symbolism in the arts and temples of Hinduism, suggests Edmund Leach, is similar to those in Christianity and other major religions of the world.\n\nIndian texts call the craftsmen and builders of temples as ‘‘Silpin’’ (Sanskrit: शिल्पिन्), derived from ‘‘Silpa’’. One of earliest mentions of Sanskrit word Silpa is in Atharvaveda, from about 1000 BC, which scholars have translated as any work of art. Other scholars suggest that the word Silpa has no direct one word translation in English, nor does the word ‘‘Silpin’’. Silpa, explains Stella Kramrisch, is a multicolored word and incorporates art, skill, craft, ingenuity, imagination, form, expression and inventiveness of any art or craft. Similarly a Shilpin, notes Kramrisch, is a complex Sanskrit word, describing any person who embodies art, science, culture, skill, rhythm and employs creative principles to produce any divine form of expression. Silpins who built Hindu temples, as well as the art works and sculpture within them, were considered by the ancient Sanskrit texts to deploy arts whose number are unlimited, Kala (techniques) that were 64 in number, and Vidya (science) that were of 32 types.\n\nThe Hindu manuals of temple construction describe the education, characteristics of good artists and architects. The general education of a Hindu Shilpin in ancient India included Lekha or Lipi (alphabet, reading and writing), Rupa (drawing and geometry), Ganana (arithmetic). These were imparted from age 5 to 12. The advanced students would continue in higher stages of Shilpa Sastra studies till the age of 25. Apart from specialist technical competence, the manuals suggest that best Silpins for building a Hindu temple are those who know the essence of Vedas and Agamas, consider themselves as students, keep well verse with principles of traditional sciences and mathematics, painting and geography. Further they are kind, free from jealousy, righteous, have their sense under control, of happy disposition, and ardent in everything they do.\n\nAccording to Silparatna, a Hindu temple project would start with a Yajamana (patron), and include a Sthapaka (guru, spiritual guide and architect-priest), a Sthapati (architect) who would design the building, a Sutragrahin (surveyor), and many Vardhakins (workers, masons, painters, plasterers, overseers) and Taksakas (sculptors). While the temple is under construction, all those working on the temple were revered and considered sacerdotal by the patron as well as others witnessing the construction. Further, it was a tradition that all tools and materials used in temple building and all creative work had the sanction of a sacrament. For example, if a carpenter or sculptor needed to fell a tree or cut a rock from a hill, he would propitiate the tree or rock with prayers, seeking forgiveness for cutting it from its surroundings, and explaining his intent and purpose. The axe used to cut the tree would be anointed with butter to minimize the hurt to the tree. Even in modern times, in some parts of India such as Odisha, Visvakarma Puja is a ritual festival every year where the craftsmen and artists worship their arts, tools and materials.\n\nHindu temples served as nuclei of important social, economic, artistic and intellectual functions in ancient and medieval India. Burton Stein states that South Indian temples managed regional development function, such as irrigation projects, land reclamation, post-disaster relief and recovery. These activities were paid for by the donations (melvarum) they collected from devotees. According to James Heitzman, these donations came from a wide spectrum of the Indian society, ranging from kings, queens, officials in the kingdom to merchants, priests and shepherds. Temples also managed lands endowed to it by its devotees upon their death. They would provide employment to the poorest. Some temples had large treasury, with gold and silver coins, and these temples served as banks.\nHindu temples over time became wealthy from grants and donations from royal patrons as well as private individuals. Major temples became employers and patrons of economic activity. They sponsored land reclamation and infrastructure improvements, states Michell, including building facilities such as water tanks, irrigation canals and new roads. A very detailed early record from 1101 lists over 600 employees (excluding the priests) of the Brihadisvara Temple, Thanjavur, still one of the largest temples in Tamil Nadu. Most worked part-time and received the use of temple farmland as reward. For those thus employed by the temple, according to Michell, \"some gratuitous services were usually considered obligatory, such as dragging the temple chariots on festival occasions and helping when a large building project was undertaken\". Temples also acted as refuge during times of political unrest and danger.\n\nIn contemporary times, the process of building a Hindu temple by emigrants and diasporas from South Asia has also served as a process of building a community, a social venue to network, reduce prejudice and seek civil rights together.\n\nJohn Guy and Jorrit Britschgi state Hindu temples served as centers where ancient manuscripts were routinely used for learning and where the texts were copied when they wore out. In South India, temples and associated \"mutts\" served custodial functions, and a large number of manuscripts on Hindu philosophy, poetry, grammar and other subjects were written, multiplied and preserved inside the temples. Archaeological and epigraphical evidence indicates existence of libraries called \"Sarasvati-bhandara\", dated possibly to early 12th-century and employing librarians, attached to Hindu temples.\n\nPalm-leaf manuscripts called lontar in dedicated stone libraries have been discovered by archaeologists at Hindu temples in Bali Indonesia and in 10th century Cambodian temples such as Angkor Wat and Banteay Srei.\n\nInscriptions from the 4th century AD suggest the existence of schools around Hindu temples, called \"Ghatikas\" or \"Mathas\", where the Vedas were studied. In south India, 9th century Vedic schools attached to Hindu temples were called \"Calai\" or \"Salai\", and these provided free boarding and lodging to students and scholars. The temples linked to Bhakti movement in the early 2nd millennium, were dominated by non-Brahmins. These assumed many educational functions, including the exposition, recitation and public discourses of Sanskrit and Vedic texts. Some temple schools offered wide range of studies, ranging from Hindu scriptures to Buddhist texts, grammar, philosophy, martial arts, music and painting. By the 8th century, Hindu temples also served as the social venue for tests, debates, team competition and Vedic recitals called \"Anyonyam\".\n\nAccording to Kenneth G. Zysk – a professor specializing in Indology and ancient medicine, Hindu \"mathas\" and temples had by the 10th-century attached medical care along with their religious and educational roles. This is evidenced by various inscriptions found in Bengal, Andhra Pradesh and elsewhere. An inscription dated to about AD 930 states the provision of a physician to two \"matha\" to care for the sick and destitute. Another inscription dated to 1069 at a Vishnu temple in Tamil Nadu describes a hospital attached to the temple, listing the nurses, physicians, medicines and beds for patients. Similarly, a stone inscription in Andhra Pradesh dated to about 1262 mentions the provision of a \"prasutishala\" (maternity house), \"vaidya\" (physician), an \"arogyashala\" (health house) and a \"viprasattra\" (hospice, kitchen) with the religious center where people from all social backgrounds could be fed and cared for. According to Zysk, both Buddhist monasteries and Hindu religious centers provided facilities to care for the sick and needy in the 1st millennium, but with the destruction of Buddhist centers after the 12th century, the Hindu religious institutions assumed these social responsibilities. According to George Michell, Hindu temples in South India were active charity centers and they provided free meal for wayfarers, pilgrims and devotees, as well as boarding facilities for students and hospitals for the sick.\n\nThe 15th and 16th century Hindu temples at Hampi featured storage spaces (temple granary, \"kottara\"), water tanks and kitchens. Many major pilgrimage sites have featured \"dharmashalas\" since early times. These were attached to Hindu temples, particularly in South India, providing a bed and meal to pilgrims. They relied on any voluntary donation the visitor may leave and to land grants from local rulers. Some temples have operated their kitchens on daily basis to serve the visitor and the needy, while others during major community gatherings or festivals. Examples include the major kitchens run by Hindu temples in Udupi (Karnataka), Puri (Odisha) and Tirupati (Andhra Pradesh). The tradition of sharing food in smaller temple is typically called \"prasada\".\n\nHindu temples are found in diverse locations each incorporating different methods of construction and styles:\n\n\nIn arid western parts of India, such as Rajasthan and Gujarat, Hindu communities built large walk in wells that served as the only source of water in dry months but also served as social meeting places and carried religious significance. These monuments went down into earth towards subterranean water, up to seven storey, and were part of a temple complex. These vav (literally, stepwells) had intricate art reliefs on the walls, with numerous idols and images of Hindu deities, water spirits and erotic symbolism. The step wells were named after Hindu deities; for example, Mata Bhavani's Stepwell, Ankol Mata Vav, Sikotari Vav and others. The temple ranged from being small single pada (cell) structure to large nearby complexes. These stepwells and their temple compounds have been variously dated from late 1st millennium BC through 11th century AD. Of these, Rani ki vav, with hundreds of art reliefs including many of Vishnu deity avatars, has been declared a UNESCO World Heritage site.\n\nThe Indian rock-cut architecture evolved in Maharashtran temple style in the 1st millennium AD. The temples are carved from a single piece of rock as a complete temple or carved in a cave to look like the interior of a temple. Ellora Temple is an example of the former, while The Elephanta Caves are representative of the latter style. The Elephanta Caves consist of two groups of caves—the first is a large group of five Hindu caves and the second is a smaller group of two Buddhist caves. The Hindu caves contain rock-cut stone sculptures, representing the Shaiva Hindu sect, dedicated to the god Shiva.\n\nA typical, ancient Hindu temple has a profusion of arts – from paintings to sculpture, from symbolic icons to engravings, from thoughtful layout of space to fusion of mathematical principles with Hindu sense of time and cardinality.\n\nAncient Sanskrit texts classify idols and images in number of ways. For example, one method of classification is the dimensionality of completion:\n\nAnother way of classification is by the expressive state of the image:\n\n\nA Hindu temple may or may not include an idol or images, but larger temples usually do. Personal Hindu temples at home or a hermitage may have a pada for yoga or meditation, but be devoid of anthropomorphic representations of god. Nature or others arts may surround him or her. To a Hindu yogin, states Gopinath Rao, one who has realised Self and the Universal Principle within himself, there is no need for any temple or divine image for worship. However, for those who have yet to reach this height of realization, various symbolic manifestations through images, idols and icons as well as mental modes of worship are offered as one of the spiritual paths in the Hindu way of life. This belief is repeated in ancient Hindu scriptures. For example, the Jabaladarshana Upanishad states:\n\nA number of ancient Indian texts suggest the prevalence of idols, temples and shrines in Indian subcontinent for thousands of years. For example, the temples of the Koshala kingdom are mentioned in the Valmiki Ramayana (various recent scholars' estimates for the earliest stage of the text range from the 7th to 4th centuries BCE, with later stages extending up to the 3rd century CE) The 5th century BC text, \"Astadhyayi\", mentions male deity \"arcas\" (images/idols) of Agni, Indra, Varuna, Rudra, Mrda, Pusa, Surya, and Soma being worshipped, as well as the worship of arcas of female goddesses such as Indrani, Varunani, Usa, Bhavani, Prthivi and Vrsakapayi. The 2nd Century BC ‘‘Mahabhasya’’ of Patanjali extensively describes temples of \"Dhanapati\" (deity of wealth and finance, Kubera), as well as temples of Rama and Kesava, wherein the worship included dance, music and extensive rituals. The \"Mahabhasya\" also describes the rituals for Krsna, Visnu and Siva. An image recovered from Mathura in north India has been dated to the 2nd century BC. Kautilya's Arthashastra from 4th Century BC describes a city of temples, each enshrining various Vedic and Puranic deities. All three of these sources have common names, describe common rituals, symbolism and significance possibly suggesting that the idea of idols, temples and shrines passed from one generation to next, in ancient India, at least from the 4th century BC. The oldest temples, suggest scholars, were built of brick and wood. Stone became the preferred material of construction later.\n\nEarly Jain and Buddhist literature, along with Kautilya's Arthashastra, describe structures, embellishments and designs of these temples – all with motifs and deities currently prevalent in Hinduism. Bas-reliefs and idols have been found from 2nd to 3rd Century, but none of the temple structures have survived. Scholars theorize that those ancient temples of India, later referred to as Hindu temples, were modeled after domestic structure – a house or a palace. Beyond shrines, nature was revered, in forms such as trees, rivers, and stupas, before the time of Buddha and Vardhamana Mahavira. As Jainism and Buddhism branched off from the religious tradition later to be called Hinduism, the ideas, designs and plans of ancient Vedic and Upanishad era shrines were adopted and evolved, likely from the competitive development of temples and arts in Jainism and Buddhism. Ancient reliefs found so far, states Michael Meister, suggest five basic shrine designs and combinations thereof in 1st millennium BC:\n\nMany of these ancient shrines were roofless, some had \"toranas\" and roof.\n\nFrom the 1st century BC through 3rd Century AD, the evidence and details about ancient temples increases. The ancient literature refers to these temples as \"Pasada\" (or Prasada), \"stana\", \"mahasthana\", \"devalaya\", \"devagrha\", \"devakula\", \"devakulika\", \"ayatana\" and \"harmya\". The entrance of the temple is referred to as \"dvarakosthaka\" in these ancient texts notes Meister, the temple hall is described as \"sabha\" or \"ayagasabha\", pillars were called \"kumbhaka\", while \"vedika\" referred to the structures at the boundary of a temple.\n\nWith the start of Gupta dynasty in the 4th century, Hindu temples flourished in innovation, design, scope, form, use of stone and new materials as well as symbolic synthesis of culture and dharmic principles with artistic expression. It is this period that is credited with the ideas of garbhagrha for \"Purusa\", mandapa for sheltering the devotees and rituals in progress, as well as symbolic motifs relating to dharma, karma, kama, artha and moksha. Temple superstructures were built from stone, brick and wide range of materials. Entrance ways, walls and pillars were intricately carved, while parts of temple were decorated with gold, silver and jewels. Visnu, Siva and other deities were placed in Hindu temples, while Buddhists and Jains built their own temples, often side by side with Hindus.\n\nThe 4th through 6th century marked the flowering of \"Vidharbha\" style, whose accomplishments survive in central India as Ajanta caves, Pavnar, Mandhal and Mahesvar. In the Malaprabha river basin, South India, this period is credited with some of the earliest stone temples of the region: the Badami Chalukya temples are dated to the 5th century by some scholars, and the 6th by some others.\n\nOver 6th and 7th centuries, temple designs were further refined during Maurya dynasty, evidence of which survives today at Ellora and in the Elephanta cave temples.\n\nIt is the 5th through 7th century AD when outer design and appearances of Hindu temples in north India and south India began to widely diverge. Nevertheless, the forms, theme, symbolism and central ideas in the grid design remained same, before and after, pan-India as innovations were adopted to give distinctly different visual expressions.\n\nThe Western Chalukya architecture of the 11th- & 12th-century Tungabhadra region of modern central Karnataka includes many temples. Step-wells are consist of a shaft dug to the water table, with steps descending to the water; while they were built for secular purposes, some are also decorated as temples, or serve as a temple tank.\n\nDuring the 5th to 11th century, Hindu temples flourished outside Indian subcontinent, such as in Cambodia, Viet Nam, Malaysia and Indonesia. In Cambodia, Khmer architecture favoured the Temple mountain style famously used in Angkor Wat, with a prang spire over the sanctum cell. Indonesian candi developed regional forms. In what is modern south and central Viet Nam, Champa architecture built brick temples.\n\nMany Hindu temples have been destroyed, some, after rebuilding, several times. Deliberate temple destruction usually had religious motives. Richard Eaton has listed 80 campaigns of Hindu temple site destruction stretching over centuries, particularly from the 12th through the 18th century. Others temples have served as non-Hindu places of worship, either after conversion or simultaneously with Hindu use.\n\nIn the 12th-16th century, during Muslim conquests in the Indian subcontinent and South Asia, Hindu temples, along with the temples of Buddhists and Jains, intermittently became targets of armies from Persian, Central Asian, and Indian sultanates. Idols were broken up and damaged, spires and pillars were torn down, and temples were looted of their treasury. Some temples were converted into mosques, or parts used to build mosques. There exist both Indian and Muslim traditions of religious toleration. During some periods, Muslim rulers encouraged the arts, and helped repair and protect Hindu temples. Akbar notably funded temple construction. In other periods, rulers led campaigns of temple destruction and forbade repairs to damaged temples. The Delhi Sultanate destroyed a large number of temples; Sikandar the Iconoclast, Sultan of Kashmir, was also known for his intolerance.\n\nThe 16th- and 19th-century Goa Inquisition destroyed hundreds of Hindu temples. All Hindu temples in Portuguese colonies in India were destroyed, according to a 1569 letter in the Portuguese royal archives. Temples were not converted into churches. Religious conflict and desecrations of places of worship continued during the British colonial era.\nHistorian Sita Ram Goel's book \" What happened to Hindu Temples \" lists over 2000 sites where temples have been destroyed and mosques have been built over them. Some historians suggest that around 30,000 temples were destroyed by islamic rulers between 1200 and 1800 AD. \nDestruction of Hindu temple sites was comparatively less in the southern parts of India, such as in Tamil Nadu. Cave-style Hindu temples that were carved inside a rock, hidden and rediscovered centuries later, such as the Kailasha Temple, have also preferentially survived. Many are now UNESCO world heritage sites.\n\nIn India, the Place of Worship (Special Provisions) Act was enacted in 1991 which prohibited the conversion of any religious site from the religion to which it was dedicated on 15 August 1947.\n\nThe customs and etiquette varies across India. Devotees in major temples may bring in symbolic offerings for the puja. This includes fruits, flowers, sweets and other symbols of the bounty of the natural world. Temples in India are usually surrounded with small shops selling these offerings.\n\nWhen inside the temple, devotees keep both hands folded (namaste mudra). The inner sanctuary, where the murtis reside, is known as the \"garbhagriha\". It symbolizes the birthplace of the universe, the meeting place of the gods and mankind, and the threshold between the transcendental and the phenomenal worlds. It is in this inner shrine that devotees seek a darsana of, where they offer prayers. Devotees may or may not be able to personally present their offerings at the feet of the deity. In most large Indian temples, only the pujaris (priest) are allowed to enter into the main sanctum.\n\nTemple management staff typically announce the hours of operation, including timings for special pujas. These timings and nature of special puja vary from temple to temple. Additionally, there may be specially allotted times for devotees to perform circumambulations (or pradakshina) around the temple.\n\nVisitors and worshipers to large Hindu temples may be required to deposit their shoes and other footwear before entering. Where this is expected, the temples provide an area and help staff to store footwear. Dress codes vary. It is customary in temples in Kerala, for men to remove shirts and to cover pants and shorts with a traditional cloth known as a \"Vasthiram\". In Java and Bali (Indonesia), before one enters the most sacred parts of a Hindu temple, shirts are required as well as Sarong around one's waist. At many other locations, this formality is unnecessary.\n\nNorth Indian temples are referred to as Nagara style of temple architecture. They have \"sanctum sanctorum\" where the deity is present, open on one side from where the devotee obtains \"darśana\". There may or may not be many more surrounding corridors, halls, etc. However, there will be space for devotees to go around the temple in clockwise fashion circumambulation. In North Indian temples, the tallest towers are built over the \"sanctum sanctorum\" in which the deity is installed.\n\nThe north India Nagara style of temple designs often deploy fractal-theme, where smaller parts of the temple are themselves images or geometric re-arrangement of the large temple, a concept that later inspired French and Russian architecture such as the matryoshka principle. One difference is the scope and cardinality, where Hindu temple structures deploy this principle in every dimension with garbhgriya as the primary locus, and each pada as well as zones serving as additional centers of loci. This makes a Nagara Hindu temple architecture symbolically a perennial expression of movement and time, of centrifugal growth fused with the idea of unity in everything.\n\nIn West Bengal, the Bengali terra cotta temple architecture is found. Due to lack of suitable stone in the alluvial soil locally available, the temple makers had to resort to other materials instead of stone. This gave rise to using terracotta as a medium for temple construction. Terracotta exteriors with rich carvings are a unique feature of Bengali temples. The town of Vishnupur in West Bengal is renowned for this type of architecture. There is also a popular style of building known as Navaratna (nine-towered) or Pancharatna (five-towered). An example of Navaratna style is the Dakshineswar Kali Temple.\n\nOdisha temple architecture is known as Kalinga architecture, classifies the spire into three parts, the \"Bāḍa\" (lower limb), the \"Ganḍi\" (body) and the \"Cuḷa/Mastaka\" (head). Each part is decorated in a different manner. Kalinga architecture is a style which flourished in Kalinga, the name for kingdom that included ancient Odisha. It includes three styles: \"Rekha Deula\", \"Pidha Deula\" and \"Khakhara Deula\". The former two are associated with Vishnu, Surya and Shiva temples while the third is mainly associated with Chamunda and Durga temples. The \"Rekha Deula\" and \"Khakhara Deula\" houses the \"sanctum sanctorum\" while the \"Pidha Deula\" style includes space for outer dancing and offering halls.\n\nThe temple architecture of Goa is quite unique. As Portuguese colonial hegemony increased, Goan Hindu temples became the rallying point to local resistance. Many these temples are not more than 500 years old, and are a unique blend of original Goan temple architecture, Dravidian, Nagar and Hemadpanthi temple styles with some British and Portuguese architectural influences. Goan temples were built using sedimentary rocks, wood, limestone and clay tiles, and copper sheets were used for the roofs. These temples were decorated with mural art called as \"Kavi kala\" or \"ocher art\". The interiors have murals and wood carvings depicting scenes from the Hindu mythology.\n\nSouth Indian temples have a large gopuram, a monumental tower, usually ornate, at the entrance of the temple. This forms a prominent feature of Koils, Hindu temples of the Dravidian style. They are topped by the \"kalasam\", a bulbous stone finial. They function as gateways through the walls that surround the temple complex. The gopuram's origins can be traced back to early structures of the Tamil kings Pallavas; and by the twelfth century, under the Pandya rulers, these gateways became a dominant feature of a temple's outer appearance, eventually overshadowing the inner sanctuary which became obscured from view by the gopuram's colossal size. It also dominated the inner sanctum in amount of ornamentation. Often a shrine has more than one gopuram. They also appear in architecture outside India, especially Khmer architecture, as at Angkor Wat. A koil may have multiple gopurams, typically constructed into multiple walls in tiers around the main shrine. The temple's walls are typically square with the outer most wall having gopuras. The sanctum sanctorum and its towering roof (the central deity's shrine) are also called the \"vimanam\". The inner sanctum has restricted access with only priests allowed beyond a certain point.\n\nTemples in Kerala have a different architectural style (keeping the same essence of Vastu), especially due to climatic differences Kerala have with other parts of India with larger rainfall. The temple roof is mostly tiled and is sloped and the walls are often square, the innermost shrine being entirely enclosed in another four walls to which only the pujari (priest) enters. The walls are decorated with either mural paintings or rock sculptures which many times are emphasised on Dwarapalakas.\n\nTemple construction reached its peak during rule of Pallavas. They built various temples around Kancheepuram, and Narasimhavarman II built the Shore Temple in Mamallapuram, a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The Pandyas rule created temples such as the Meenakshi Amman Temple at Madurai and Nellaiappar Temple at Tirunelveli. The Cholas were prolific temple builders right from the times of the first medieval king Vijayalaya Chola. The Chola temples include Nataraja temple at Chidambaram, the Sri Ranganathaswami Temple at Srirangam, the Brihadeshvara Temple of Thanjavur, Brihadeshvara Temple of Gangaikonda Cholapuram and the Airavatesvara Temple of Darasuram which are among the UNESCO World Heritage Sites. The Nayaks of Madurai reconstructed some of the well-known temples in Tamil Nadu such as the Meenakshi Temple.\n\nAngkor Wat was built as a Hindu temple by King Suryavarman II in the early 12th century in Yasodharapura (Khmer, present-day Angkor), the capital of the Khmer Empire, as his state temple and eventual mausoleum. Breaking from the Shaiva tradition of previous kings, Angkor Wat was instead dedicated to Vishnu. The Spire in Khmer Hindu temple is called Giri (mountain) and symbolizes the residence of gods just like Meru does in Bali Hindu mythology and Ku (Guha) does in Burmese Hindu mythology.\n\nAngkor Wat is just one of numerous Hindu temples in Cambodia, most of them in ruins. Hundreds of Hindu temples are scattered from Siem Reap to Sambor Prei Kuk in central Cambodian region.\n\nPashupatinath temple is one of the important temples of Hindu religion which is situated in Kathmandu, Nepal. It is built in a pagoda style and is surrounded by hundreds of temples and buildings built by kings. The temples top is made from pure gold.\n\nThere are a number of Hindu temple clusters along the coast of Vietnam, with some on UNESCO world heritage site list. Examples include Mỹ Sơn – a cluster of 70 temples with earliest dated to be from the 4th century AD and dedicated to Siva, while others are dedicated to Hindu deities Krishna, Vishnu and others. These temples, internally and with respect to each other, are also built on the Hindu perfect square grid concept. Other sites in Vietnam with Hindu temples include Phan Rang with the Cham temple Po Klong Garai.\n\nAncient Hindu temples in Indonesia are called \"Candi\" (read: \"chandi\"). Hindu temples of ancient Java bear resemblances with temples of South Indian style. The largest of these is the 9th century Javanese Hindu temple, Prambanan in Yogyakarta, now a UNESCO world heritage site. It was designed as three concentric squares and has 224 temples. The inner square contains 16 temples dedicated to major Hindu deities, of which Shiva temple is the largest. The temple has extensive wall reliefs and carvings illustrating the stories from the Hindu epic Ramayana.\n\nIn Bali, the Hindu temple is known as \"Pura\", which is designed as an open-air worship place in a walled compound. The compound walls have a series of intricately decorated gates without doors for the devotee to enter. The design, plan and layout of the holy pura follows a square layout.\n\nThailand has many notable Hindu temples including: the Sri Mariammam temple in Bangkok, the Devasathan, the Erawan Shrine, Prasat Muang Tam, Sdok Kok Thom and Phanom Rung. Most of the newer Hindu temples are of South Indian origin and were built by Tamil migrant communities. However, Thailand has many historic indigenous Hindu temples such as Phanom Rung. Although most indigenous Hindu temples are ruins, a few such as Devasathan in Bangkok are actively used.\n\nMany members of the diaspora from the Indian subcontinent have established Hindu temples outside India as a means of preserving and celebrating cultural and spiritual heritage abroad. Describing the hundreds of temples that can be found throughout the United States, scholar Gail M. Harley observes, \"The temples serve as central locations where Hindus can come together to worship during holy festivals and socialize with other Hindus. Temples in America reflect the colorful kaleidoscopic aspects contained in Hinduism while unifying people who are disbursed throughout the American landscape.\" Numerous temples in North America and Europe have gained particular prominence and acclaim, many of which were built by the Bochasanwasi Akshar Purushottam Swaminarayan Sanstha. The Ganesh temple of Hindu Temple Society of North America, in Flushing, Queens, New York City, is the oldest Hindu temple in the Western Hemisphere, and its canteen feeds 4,000 people a week, with as many as 10,000 during the Diwali (Deepavali) festival.\n\nThe Archaeological Survey of India has control of most ancient temples of archaeological importance in India. In India, day-to-day activities of a temple is managed by a temple board committee that administers its finances, management, and events. Since independence, the autonomy of individual Hindu religious denominations to manage their own affairs with respect to temples of their own denomination has been severely eroded and the state governments have taken control of major Hindu temples in some countries; however, in others, such as the United States, private temple management autonomy has been preserved.\n\nIn Sanskrit, the liturgical language of Hinduism, the word \"mandira\" means \"house\" (). Ancient Sanskrit texts use many words for temple, such as \"matha, vayuna, kirti, kesapaksha, devavasatha, vihara, suravasa, surakula, devatayatana, amaragara, devakula, devagrha, devabhavana, devakulika\", and \"niketana\". Regionally, they are also known as \"prasada\", \"vimana\", \"kshetra\", \"gudi\", \"ambalam\", \"punyakshetram\", \"deval\", \"deula\", \"devasthanam\", \"kovil\", \"candi\", \"pura\", and \"wat\".\n\nThe following are the other names by which a Hindu temple is referred to in India:\n\n\nIn Southeast Asia temples known as:\n\nSome lands, including Varanasi, Puri, Kanchipuram, Dwarka, Amarnath, Kedarnath, Somnath, Mathura and Rameswara, are considered holy in Hinduism. They are called \"kṣétra\" (Sanskrit: क्षेत्र). A kṣétra has many temples, including one or more major ones. These temples and its location attracts pilgrimage called tirtha (or tirthayatra).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247217", "title": "List of settlements in the Chania regional unit", "text": "List of settlements in the Chania regional unit\n\nThis is a list of settlements in the Chania regional unit, Greece.\n\n\nGavdos\n"}
{"id": "2247227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247227", "title": "Palnadu", "text": "Palnadu\n\nPalnadu is a region located in the south-western area of Guntur district and covering a portion of Prakasam district. It is spread over the revenue divisions of Gurazala in Guntur district and Markapur in Prakasam district.\n\nThe region is most notable for the Palnati Yudham (War for Palnadu) that was fought under the leadership of Brahma Nayadu and Nagamma and their warriors.\n\nThe region comprises hills and mostly stony areas which has minerals such as limestone and granite.Narasaraopet in Guntur district is considered as 'Gateway of Palnadu'\n"}
{"id": "2247228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247228", "title": "Flüela Pass", "text": "Flüela Pass\n\nFlüela Pass (elevation ) is a high mountain pass in the Swiss Alps in the canton of Graubünden. The road connects Davos and Susch in the lower Engadin valley.\nSince the Vereina Tunnel opened in 1999, the road is no longer guaranteed to be open all year.\nAn NGO, Pro Flüela Verein, was established in 1990 to extend the opening outside the summer months. It raises money from membership fees, and grants from the cantonal government and local communes\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247233", "title": "OVV quasar", "text": "OVV quasar\n\nAn optically violent variable quasar (often abbreviated as OVV quasar) is a type of highly variable quasar. It is a subtype of blazar that consists of a few rare, bright radio galaxies, whose visible light output can change by 50% in a day. OVV quasars have essentially become unified with highly polarized quasars (HPQ), core-dominated quasars (CDQ), and flat-spectrum radio quasars (FSRQ). Different terms are used but the term FSRQ is gaining popularity effectively making the other terms archaic.\n\nAt visible wavelengths, they are similar in appearance to BL Lac objects but generally have stronger broad emission lines.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247250", "title": "Ned O'Keeffe", "text": "Ned O'Keeffe\n\nNed O'Keeffe (born 1 August 1942) is a former Irish Fianna Fáil politician who served as Minister of State for Food from 1997 to 2001. He served as a Teachta Dála (TD) for the Cork East constituency from 1982 to 2011. He was a Senator from May 1982 to November 1982, upon being nominated by the Taoiseach.\n\nO'Keeffe was born in Ballindangan, Mitchelstown, County Cork in 1942. He was educated at Darra College, Clonakilty, where he received a diploma in Social and Rural Science. O'Keeffe was a pig farmer before becoming involved in politics.\n\nIn 1982, he was nominated by the Taoiseach, Charles Haughey, to the 16th Seanad. He was first elected to Dáil Éireann at the November 1982 general election. He retained his seat at each subsequent general election until his retirement in 2011.\n\nO'Keeffe served in a number of frontbench positions. He was Fianna Fáil Spokesperson on Industry from 1982 until 1987. While Fianna Fáil were in power between 1987 and 1994, O'Keeffe remained on the backbenches. When Bertie Ahern became party leader in 1994 O'Keeffe was appointed Deputy Spokesperson on Enterprise and Employment with responsibility for Commerce, Science, Technology and Small Business. He served in that position until 1997, when he became Minister of State at the Department of Agriculture and Food with responsibility for Food. He served in that position until February 2001, when he had to resign due to his voting on a Dáil motion without declaring that he had a beneficial interest in the subject matter.\n\nOn 28 November 2007, during a debate on a motion of no confidence in the Minister for Health and Children Mary Harney, O'Keeffe resigned the Fianna Fáil party whip when forced to vote his confidence in the Minister. On 26 February 2008, he was re-admitted to the Fianna Fáil parliamentary party.\n\nHe was a member of Cork County Council from 1985 to 1997.\n\nHe was an unsuccessful candidate at the 2009 European Parliament election for the South constituency. In the pre-election debate on Today FM he voiced his support for the use of Nuclear power and an incinerator in Cork Harbour.\n\nHe retired from politics at the 2011 general election.\n\nHe was arrested on 27 April 2012 by members of the Garda Bureau of Fraud Investigation (GBFI) on suspicion of using a false invoice to claim for mobile phone expenses while he was a member of the Oireachtas. He was held for a number of hours at Cobh Garda station under section 26 of the Criminal Justice (Theft and Fraud Offences) Act.\n\nOn the 1 December 2014, O'Keeffe was found guilty of fraudulently claiming in excess of €3,700 in mobile phone usage expenses. He was fined €3,500 and given a 7-month suspended jail sentence for his crime.\n"}
{"id": "2247269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247269", "title": "Theatre Guild", "text": "Theatre Guild\n\nThe Theatre Guild is a theatrical society founded in New York City in 1918 by Lawrence Langner, Philip Moeller, Helen Westley and Theresa Helburn. Langner's wife, Armina Marshall, then served as a co-director. It evolved out of the work of the Washington Square Players.\n\nIts original purpose was to produce non-commercial works by American and foreign playwrights. It differed from other theaters at the time in that its board of directors shared the responsibility of choosing plays, management, and production. The Theatre Guild contributed greatly to the success of Broadway from the 1920s throughout the 1970s.\n\nThe Guild has produced a total of 228 plays on Broadway, including 18 by George Bernard Shaw and seven by Eugene O'Neill. Other major playwrights introduced to theatre-going Americans include Robert E. Sherwood, Maxwell Anderson, Sidney Howard, William Saroyan, and Philip Barry. In the field of musical theatre, the Guild has promoted works by Richard Rodgers, teamed with both Lorenz Hart and Oscar Hammerstein II, George and Ira Gershwin, Jule Styne, and Meredith Willson, all of which have become classics. Under President John F. Kennedy, the Guild was engaged to assemble a U.S. theatre company, headed by Helen Hayes, to tour the capitals of Europe and South America with works by Tennessee Williams, Thornton Wilder, and William Gibson. \n\nIn 1968, the Guild became involved in the travel field by taking 25 of its subscribers to European capitals to see plays. In 1975, it instituted its Theatre At Sea program with a 17-day cruise aboard the \"Rotterdam\" with Hayes and Cyril Ritchard. Since then they have hosted more than thirty cruises, each with seven or eight performers. Among them have been Alan Arkin, Zoe Caldwell, Anne Jackson, Cherry Jones, Richard Kiley, Eartha Kitt, Patricia Neal, Lynn Redgrave, Gena Rowlands, Jean Stapleton, Eli Wallach, and Lee Roy Reams, who served as the program's resident director.\n\nThe last Broadway play produced by The Theatre Guild was \"State Fair\" in 1996. \n\n"}
{"id": "2247276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247276", "title": "Ipratropium bromide/salbutamol", "text": "Ipratropium bromide/salbutamol\n\nIpratropium bromide/salbutamol, sold under the brand name Combivent among others, is a combination medication used to treat chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). It contains ipratropium (an anticholinergic) and salbutamol (albuterol, a β-adrenergic agonist). It is taken by inhalation.\nCommon side effects include sore throat, muscle cramps, and nausea. Other side effects may include bronchospasm, allergic reactions, and upper respiratory tract infections. Safety in pregnancy is unclear. Each medication typically decreases bronchospasm and does so via different mechanisms.\nThe combination was approved for medical use in the United States in 1996. It is available as a generic medication. Sixty doses in the United Kingdom costs the NHS about 18 £ as of 2019. In the United States the wholesale cost of this amount is about US$9.50. In 2017, it was the 172nd most commonly prescribed medication in the United States, with more than three million prescriptions.\n\nSince Combivent contains a chlorofluorocarbon based propellant, it is being phased out in European Union countries. Chloroflourocarbons (CFC) are attributed to depletion of the ozone layer.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247288", "title": "Arts district", "text": "Arts district\n\nAn arts district or cultural district is a demarcated urban area, usually on the periphery of a city centre, intended to create a 'critical mass' of places of cultural consumption - such as art galleries, , theatres, art cinemas, music venues, and public squares for performances. Such an area is usually encouraged by public policy-making and planning, but sometimes occurs spontaneously. It is associated with allied service-industry jobs like cafes, printers, fashion outlets, restaurants, and a variety of 'discreet services' (see the back-page small-ads of almost any cultural events-listings magazine).\n\nThere may also be some artists' studios located in nearby back-streets. But, as Richard Florida has found from his research, cultural production facilities are often better sited some miles away from cultural consumption facilities - except in some very tolerant cities and in countries where a boisterous alcohol-based nightlife scene does not lead to aggressive and anti-social behaviour.\n\nIn the UK the term sometimes used is \"Cultural quarter\" or \"Arts quarter\".\nAmericans for the Arts defines the following types of cultural districts:\n\nSteiner and Butler outline five types of arts districts commonly found in the United States.\n\nThe creation of a cultural district implies collaboration between the arts and the local community. Cultural districts may be seen by local authorities as a way to revitalize the “brownfields” of the urban core: areas of abandoned buildings that encourage businesses and residents to leave the cities.\n\nThe developing theory of cultural districts increasingly conceives them as development models for local systems, where the term ‘district’ refers to supra-urban area. At supra-urban or regional level the complexity of a cultural district is even more marked than at urban level, due to potential interdependencies among a greater multitude of actors. A useful approach towards a deeper understanding can be to conceive cultural districts as complex adaptive systems. Indeed, complexity is definitely not a management fad and fashion, a mere metaphor or methodology, but a deeper perception of reality. Organizations are classically seen as purpose-driven entities with a structural form, exhibiting a certain degree of order and determinism. Such a linear top-down approach to analysis and design, however, exhibits many limitations when used for organizational settings characterized by a complex web of interdependencies. The view of a cultural district as a complex adaptive system suggests new ideas and approaches for policy-makers, designers and managers. It also opens up debate on issues of organizational design and change.\n\nAll cultural districts are unique, reflecting their cities’ unique environment, including history of land use, urban growth and cultural development. There is no standard model.\nMost cultural districts are built to take advantage of other city attractions such as historic features, convention spaces and parks and other natural amenities.\n\nStructural considerations within or near the district, community leadership and social forces all influence the development of a cultural district and the type of district that results. Factors influencing the siting of cultural districts include: perceived need for urban revitalization, existing investment, property value and preexisting cultural facilities.\n\nUnlike a cultural center or a shopping mall, a cultural district comprises a large number of property owners, both public and private, who control the various properties involved, hence a structural complexity. The effectiveness of the coordinating agency in guiding the direction of the cultural district varies according to its size, budget, mandated functions and degree of authority, resulting in widespread variation in the coordinated cultural programming and administration services offered by cultural districts. The coordinated agency appointed for the district must work carefully to ensure inclusiveness of concerns and to balance potentially conflicting interests.\n\nCultural districts offer two major types of services: one targets the arts community, providing marketing /promotion, box office services and property management; the other targets the district's business and property owners, offering urban design and development services or administrative support.\n\nThe excitement and attraction of a cultural district is a high mixture of interesting things to do, places to see, and places to visit (both cultural and noncultural), across the day and evening.\n\nSome artist-activists are promoting the concept of a \"Naturally Occurring Cultural District,\" or NOCD, patterned after the demographic concept of a naturally occurring retirement community. A NOCD \"supports existing neighborhood cultural assets rather than imposing arts institutions somewhere new,\" according to Tamara Greenfield, co-director of NOCD-New York. Co-director Caron Atlas explained: \"If a cultural district has emerged 'naturally,' then it grows from, builds on and validates existing community assets rather than importing assets from outside a community.\" Indeed, different conceptions of cultural districts include self-organization and emergence in different degrees (e.g. Lazzeretti, 2003; Le Blanc, 2010; Sacco et al., 2013; Stern & Seifert, 2007). Many authors argue that districtualization is essentially spontaneous and that the conditions for formation can be recognized and sustained, not created from the top. If the conception of a cultual district as a complex adaptive system were accepted, the design process would be conceived as something more flexible, dynamic and in evolution. Complexity theory and complex adaptive systems should move understanding of supra-urban cultural districts towards a more holistic and bottom-up approach rather than a linear top-down approach to analysis and design. This does not suggest inhibiting any attempt at prediction or planning. The use of qualitative analysis and rough estimations or agent-based modelling can represent a fertile ground for both future research, policy-making and managerial implications.\n\nNotable arts districts in the United States (alphabetical by city):\n\n\nArt districts in London include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2247290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247290", "title": "Prélude à l'après-midi d'un faune", "text": "Prélude à l'après-midi d'un faune\n\nPrélude à l'après-midi d'un faune (\"\"L.\" 86\"), known in English as Prelude to the Afternoon of a Faun, is a symphonic poem for orchestra by Claude Debussy, approximately 10 minutes in duration. It was composed in 1894 and first performed in Paris on 22 December 1894, conducted by Gustave Doret. The flute solo was played by Georges Barrère.\n\nThe composition was inspired by the poem \"L'après-midi d'un faune\" by Stéphane Mallarmé. It is one of Debussy's most famous works and is considered a turning point in the history of music. Pierre Boulez considered the score to be the beginning of modern music, observing that \"the flute of the faun brought new breath to the art of music.\"\n\nDebussy's work later provided the basis for the ballet \"Afternoon of a Faun\" choreographed by Vaslav Nijinsky and a later version by Jerome Robbins.\n\nAbout his composition Debussy wrote:The music of this prelude is a very free illustration of Mallarmé's beautiful poem. By no means does it claim to be a synthesis of it. Rather there is a succession of scenes through which pass the desires and dreams of the faun in the heat of the afternoon. Then, tired of pursuing the timorous flight of nymphs and naiads, he succumbs to intoxicating sleep, in which he can finally realize his dreams of possession in universal Nature.\n\nPaul Valéry reported that Mallarmé himself was unhappy with his poem being used as the basis for music:\n\nHe believed that his own music was sufficient, and that even with the best intentions in the world, it was a veritable crime as far as poetry was concerned to juxtapose poetry and music, even if it were the finest music there is.\n\nHowever, after attending the premiere performance at Debussy's invitation, Mallarmé wrote to Debussy: \"I have just come out of the concert, deeply moved. The marvel! Your illustration of the Afternoon of a Faun, which presents no dissonance with my text, but goes much further, really, into nostalgia and into light, with finesse, with sensuality, with richness. I press your hand admiringly, Debussy. Yours, Mallarmé.\"\n\nThe work is scored for three flutes, two oboes, cor anglais, two clarinets in A and B, two bassoons, four horns, two harps, two crotales and strings. In standard notation: 3 3[1.2.Eh] 2 2 – 4 0 0 0 – 1perc[crot] – 2hp – str (10').\n\nAlthough it is tempting to call this piece a tone poem, there is very little musical literalism in the piece; instead, the slow and mediated melody and layered orchestration as a whole evoke the eroticism of Mallarmé's poem.\n[This prelude] was [Debussy's] musical response to the poem of Stephane Mallarmé (1842–1898), in which a faun playing his pan-pipes alone in the woods becomes aroused by passing nymphs and naiads, pursues them unsuccessfully, then wearily abandons himself to a sleep filled with visions. Though called a \"prelude,\" the work is nevertheless complete – an evocation of the feelings of the poem as a whole.Debussy had intended to compose a second and third movement, an Interlude and Paraphrase finale, respectively, but he decided to concentrate all of his musical ideas into one movement.\n\nThe \"Prélude\" at first listening seems improvisational and almost free-form; however, closer observation will demonstrate that the piece consists of a complex organization of musical cells, motifs carefully developed and traded between members of the orchestra. A close analysis of the piece reveals a high amount of consciousness of composition on Debussy's part.\n\nThe main musical themes are introduced by woodwinds, with delicate but harmonically advanced accompaniment of muted horns, strings and harp. Recurring tools in Debussy's compositional arsenal make appearances in this piece: extended whole-tone scale runs, harmonic fluidity without lengthy modulations between central keys, and tritones in both melody and harmony. The opening flute solo consists of a chromatic descent to a tritone below the original pitch and then subsequent ascent. The development of the slow main theme transitions smoothly between , , and . Debussy uses sophisticated voicings and orchestration, allowing the main melodic cell to move from solo flute to oboe, back to solo flute, then to two unison flutes (yielding a completely different atmosphere to the melody), then to clarinet, and so on. Even the accompaniment explores alternate voicings: the flute duo's crescendo during their melodic cells accompany \"legato\" strings with violas carrying the soprano part over alto violins (the tone of a viola in its upper register being especially pronounced).\nThe composition totals 110 bars. If one counts the incomplete lines of verse as one, Mallarmé's text likewise adds up to 110 lines. The second section in D-flat starts at bar 55, exactly halfway through the work.\n\nIn 1912, the piece was made into a short ballet, with costumes and sets by painter Léon Bakst, which was choreographed and performed by renowned dancer Vaslav Nijinsky. It proved to be highly controversial because of the dancers' non-traditional movements and because of a moment in which the faun appears to masturbate.\n\nIn 1958, another ballet by Jerome Robbins was made, which has been frequently performed by many companies.\n\nIn Thomas Mann's \"The Magic Mountain\" it is implied that protagonist Hans Castorp listened to Debussy's piece on a gramophone. In the book, the \"Prélude\" is one of his favorite recordings, and leads him to daydream about a faun playing pipes in an oneiric landscape.\n\nClaude Debussy himself rewrote the piece for performance on two pianos in 1895.\n\nOther transcriptions include: the arrangement of Maurice Ravel for piano four hands, the flute and piano version of Gustave Samazeuilh, the arrangement for Pierrot ensemble (flute, clarinet, violin, cello and piano) by Tim Mulleman, a transcription for flute, clarinet and piano by Michael Webster, and an arrangement for the instruments of Ravel's Introduction and Allegro (flute, clarinet, harp and string quartet) with an additional double bass, by Graeme Steele Johnson.\n\nBenno Sachs, a pupil of Arnold Schoenberg, reorchestrated the work for a chamber ensemble which included a piano and a harmonium, for Schoenberg's Society for Private Musical Performances, which took place on 27 October 1920.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247298", "title": "Central Atlantic magmatic province", "text": "Central Atlantic magmatic province\n\nThe Central Atlantic magmatic province (CAMP) is the Earth's largest continental large igneous province, covering an area of roughly 11 million km. It is composed mainly of basalt that formed before Pangaea broke up in the Mesozoic Era, near the end of the Triassic and the beginning of the Jurassic periods. The subsequent breakup of Pangaea created the Atlantic Ocean, but the massive igneous upwelling provided a legacy of basaltic dikes, sills, and lavas now spread over a vast area around the present central North Atlantic Ocean, including large deposits in northwest Africa, southwest Europe, as well as northeast South and southeast North America (found as continental tholeiitic basalts in subaerial flows and intrusive bodies). The name and CAMP acronym were proposed by Andrea Marzoli (Marzoli et al. 1999) and adopted at a symposium held at the 1999 Spring Meeting of the American Geophysical Union.\n\nThe CAMP volcanic eruptions occurred about 201 million years ago and split into four pulses lasting for over ~600,000 years. The resulting large igneous province is, in area covered, the most extensive on earth. The volume of magma flow of ~2–3 × 10 km makes it one of the most voluminous as well.\n\nThis geologic event is associated with the Triassic–Jurassic extinction event.\n\nAlthough some connections among these basalts had long been recognized, in 1988 they were linked as constituting a single major flood basalt province . The basaltic sills of similar age (near 200 Ma, or earliest Jurassic) and composition (intermediate-Ti quartz tholeiite) which occur across the vast Amazon River basin of Brazil were linked to the province in 1999 . Remnants of CAMP have been identified on four continents (Africa, Europe, North America and South America) and consist of thoeliitic basalts formed during the opening of the Atlantic Ocean basin during the breakup of the Pangean supercontinent .\n\nThe province has been described as extending within Pangaea from present-day central Brazil northeastward about 5000 km across western Africa, Iberia, and northwestern France, and from the interior of western Africa westward for 2500 km through eastern and southern North America . If not the largest province by volume, the CAMP certainly encompasses the greatest area known, roughly 11 million km², of any continental large igneous province.\n\nNearly all CAMP rocks are tholeiitic in composition, with widely separated areas where basalt flows are preserved, as well as large groups of diabase (dolerite) sills or sheets, small lopoliths, and dikes throughout the province. Dikes occur in very large individual swarms with particular compositions and orientations. CAMP activity is apparently related to the rifting and breakup of Pangaea during the Late Triassic through Early Jurassic periods, and the enormous province size, varieties of basalt, and brief time span of CAMP magmatism invite speculation about mantle processes that could produce such a magmatic event as well as rift a supercontinent , .\n\nIn 2013 the CAMP's connection to the end-Triassic extinction, with major extinctions that enabled dinosaur domination of land, became more firmly established. Until 2013, the uncertainties in the geochronologic dates had been too coarse to confirm that the volcanic eruptions were correlated with major climate changes. The work by Blackburn et al. demonstrated a tight synchroneity between the earliest volcanism and extinction of large populations using zircon uranium-lead (U-Pb) dating. They further demonstrated that the magmatic eruptions as well as the accompanying atmospheric changes were split into four pulses lasting for over ~600,000 years .\n\nBefore that integration, two hypotheses were in debate. One hypothesis was based especially on studies on Triassic-Jurassic basins from Morocco where CAMP lava flows are outcropping (e.g., ), whereas the other was based on end-Triassic extinction data from eastern North American basins and lava flows showing an extremely large turnover in fossil pollen, spores (sporomorphs), and vertebrates , respectively.\n\nThe thickest lava flow sequences of the African CAMP are in Morocco, where there are basaltic lava piles more than 300 metres thick. The most-studied area is Central High Atlas, where the best preserved and most complete basaltic lava piles are exposed. According to geochemical, petrographic and isotopic data four distinct tholeiitic basaltic units were recognized and can be placed throughout the Central High Atlas: Lower, Intermediate, Upper and Recurrent basalts.\nThe Lower and Intermediate units are constituted by basaltic andesites, whereas the Upper and Recurrent units have basaltic composition. From Lower to Recurrent unit, we observe: \n\nAges were determined by Ar/Ar analysis on plagioclase , , . These data show indistinguishable ages (199.5±0.5 Ma) from Lower to Upper lava flows, from central to northern Morocco. Therefore, CAMP is an intense, short magmatic event. Basalts of the Recurrent unit are slightly younger (mean age: 197±1 Ma) and represent a late event. Consistently, the Upper and Recurrent basalts are separated by a sedimentary layer that locally reaches a thickness of circa 80 m.\n\nAccording to magnetostratigraphic data, the Moroccan CAMP events were divided into five groups, differing in paleomagnetic orientations (declination and inclination) . Each group is composed by a smaller number of lava flows (i.e., a lower volume) than the preceding one. \nThese data suggest that they were created by five short magma pulses and eruption events, each one possibly <400 (?) years long. \nAll lava flow sequences are characterized by normal polarity, except for a brief paleomagnetic reversal yielded by one lava flow and by a localized interlayered limestone in two distinct section of the High Atlas CAMP.\n\nPalynological data from sedimentary layers samples at the base of four lava flow sequences constrain the onset of the CAMP, since there is no evidence of depositional hiatus or tectonic deformation at the bottom of the lava flow piles . The palynological assemblage observed in these basal layers is typical of Late Triassic age, similar to that of the uppermost Triassic sedimentary rocks of eastern North America .\nSamples from interlayered limestone in lava flows provided unreliable palynological data. One limestone bed from the top to the central High Atlas upper basalts yielded a Late Triassic palynological assemblage. However, the observed sporomorphs in this sample are rare and poorly preserved.\n\nAll of these data indicate that the basaltic lava flows of the Central Atlantic magmatic province in Morocco were erupted at c. 200 Ma and spanned the Tr-J boundary. Thus, it is very possible that there is a connection between this magmatic event and the Tr-J boundary climatic and biotic crisis that led to the mass-extinction.\n\nThe North American portion of the CAMP lava flows crop out in various sections in the basins of Newark, Culpeper, Hartford, Deerfield, i.e. the Newark Supergroup in New England (USA), and in the Fundy Basin in Nova Scotia (Canada). The CAMP is here constituted by rare olivine- and common quartz-normative basalts showing a great lateral extension and a maximum thickness up to 1 km. The basaltic flows occur on top of continental fluvial and lacustrine sedimentary units of Triassic age. Ar/Ar data (on plagioclase) indicate for these basaltic units an absolute age of 198-200 Ma bringing this magmatic event undoubtedly close to the Triassic-Jurassic (Tr-J) boundary. Thus it is necessary to determine whether it straddles the boundary or not: if not, then the CAMP could not be a cause of the Late Triassic extinction event. For example, according to there are palynological, geochemical, and magnetostratigraphic evidences that the CAMP postdates the Tr-J boundary.\n\nIn the Newark basin a magnetic reversal (E23r) is observed just below the oldest basalts and more or less in the same position as a palynologic turnover, interpreted as the Tr-J boundary. In Morocco, two reversals have been detected in two lava flow sequences. Two distinct correlations between the Moroccan and the Newark magnetostratigraphy have been proposed. suggest that the Tr-J boundary is located above the lower reverse polarity level which is positioned more or less at the base of the Intermediate basalt unit of Morocco. These two levels can be correlated with chron E23r of the Newark Basin, therefore the North American CAMP Basalts postdate the Tr–J boundary whereas part of the Moroccan CAMP was erupted within the Triassic. Contrarily, propose that these two levels could be earliest Jurassic intervals of reverse polarity not sampled in the Newark Basin Sequence (many more lava flows are present in the Moroccan Succession than in the Newark Basin), but observed in Early Jurassic sedimentary sequences of the Paris Basin of France. Reverse polarity intervals in America could be present within North Mountain (Fundy basin, Nova Scotia) which are poorly sampled even if previous magnetostratigraphy analysis in this sequence showed only normal polarity, or in the Scots Bay Member of the Fundy basin which have never been sampled. There is only one outcrop in the CAMP of America where reverse polarity is observable: a CAMP–related (about 200 Ma) dike in North Carolina. suggest that reverse polarity intervals in this dike could be of post Triassic age and correlated with the same events in Morocco.\n\nThe Tr-J boundary is not officially defined, but most workers recognise it in continental strata by the last appearance of index taxa such as \"Ovalipollis ovalis\", \"Vallasporites ignatii\" and \"Patinasporites densus\" or, in marine sections, by the first appearance of the ammonite \"Psiloceras planorbis\". In the Newark basin the palynological turnover event (hence the Tr-J boundary mass extinction) occurs below the oldest CAMP lava flows. The same can be said for the Fundy, Hartford and Deerfield Basins. In the investigated Moroccan CAMP sections (Central High Atlas Basin), sedimentary layers sampled immediately below the oldest basaltic lava flows, apparently contain Triassic taxa (e.g., \"P. densus\"), and were thus defined as Triassic in age as at least the lowest lava flows . Still, a different interpretation is suggested by : the sampled sedimentary strata are quite deformed and this can mean that some sedimentary units could be lacking (eroded or structurally omitted). With respect to the Triassic pollens found in some sedimentary units above the Upper Unit basalts, they could have been reworked, so they don’t represent a completely reliable constraint.\n\nCAMP lava flows of North America can be geochemically separated in three units: the older ones are classified as \"high titanium quartz normative\" (HTQ) basalts (TiO = 1.0-1.3 wt%); these are followed by lava flows classified as \"low titanium quartz normative\" (LTQ) basalts (TiO = ca. 0.8-1.3 wt%); and then by the youngest lava flow unit classified as \"high titanium iron quartz normative\" (HTIQ) basalts (TiO = 1.4-1.6 wt%). According to , geochemical analyses based upon titanium, magnesium and silicon contents show a certain correlation between the lower North American lava flows and the Lower Unit of the Moroccan CAMP, thus reinforcing the conclusion that the Moroccan basalts postdate the Tr-J boundary.\n\nTherefore, according to these data, CAMP basalts shouldn’t be included among the direct causes of the Tr-J mass extinction.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247299", "title": "Victims of the Future", "text": "Victims of the Future\n\nVictims of the Future is the fourth solo studio album by Irish guitarist Gary Moore, released in 1983. It was the first album to feature former UFO guitarist/keyboardist Neil Carter. It was also the last to feature Ian Paice on drums, as he reformed Deep Purple in 1984.\n\nContinuing Moore's path in the hard rock genre, \"Victims of the Future\" is a collection of straight-out rock n' roll anthems (such as \"Teenage Idol\" and \"Hold On to Love\"), a mournful love ballad (\"Empty Rooms\", which was later re-recorded by Moore for his 1985 album \"Run for Cover\"), a cover of the Yardbirds' \"Shapes of Things\", and two darker songs, featuring social and political commentary: \"Victims of the Future\" and \"Murder in the Skies\", the latter a protest against the Soviet Union's shooting down of Korean Air Lines Flight 007.\n\nThe album was released in North America with a different cover and altered content. The guitar solo intro to \"Murder in the Skies\" was removed, and \"Devil in Her Heart\", a single B-side, was added. \"All I Want\", omitted from the LP, was included as a bonus track on the cassette version.\n\nMoore later dismissed \"Victims of the Future\" as \"just one of my feeble attempts at heavy rock\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247305", "title": "Pamela Britton", "text": "Pamela Britton\n\nPamela Britton (born Armilda Jane Owen, March 19, 1923 – June 17, 1974) was an American actress, best known for appearing as Lorelei Brown in the television series \"My Favorite Martian\" (1963–1966) and for her female lead in the film noir classic \"D.O.A.\" (1950). Throughout her acting career, Britton appeared often on Broadway and in several Hollywood and TV movies. \n\nArmilda Jane Owen was born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Owen's father, Raymond G. Owen, was a doctor who died when she was 3 years old. Her mother was Ethel Waite Owen, a prominent stage, radio, and early television actress. She had two sisters: Virginia, who was actress for RKO Radio Pictures; and Mary, a social worker.\n\nOwen attended Holy Angels Academy and the State Teacher's Normal School in her home town of Milwaukee. By the age of nine she was doing summer stock, and Hollywood came calling at age ten. Her mother rejected the advances, saying she wanted her to be an actress, not a child star. Owen started auditioning for roles at the age of 15, using the name \"Gloria Jane Owen\". She found that as soon as people knew who her mother was, they expected her to be as accomplished an actress as her. She used a pseudonym to audition under, choosing Pamela (from a British book) and Britton (to emphasize the source).\n\nAfter a stint touring with bandleader Don McGuire, Britton's big break came when she was cast as both Celeste Holm's understudy and as Gertie in the Broadway production of \"Oklahoma!\". She played Meg Brockie in the Broadway production of \"Brigadoon\" (1947). When \"Oklahoma!\" went on tour, she took over Holm's role as Ado Annie.\n\nBritton's New York agent eventually sent her credentials to Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer executive Marvin Schneck. He came to see one of her performances in Chicago, and was disappointed. He returned a second night, however, after additional cajoling from her agent, and he signed Britton immediately.\n\nBritton's first role in a major production was as Frank Sinatra's girlfriend in \"Anchors Aweigh\". Afterward, however, came a forgettable part in \"A Letter for Evie\" in 1946. She went on hiatus to play the comic role of \"Meg Brockie\" in the original 1947 production of \"Brigadoon\" on Broadway.\n\nShe returned to the big screen opposite Clark Gable in \"Key to the City\" (1950), and then went on to make her most significant film appearance in the classic \"D.O.A.\", also in 1950. She made her third film of the year in the Red Skelton vehicle, \"Watch the Birdie\" (1951). It was 19 years before she returned to the big screen.\n\nBritton portrayed the title role of the TV version of the Chic Young newspaper comic strip \"Blondie\" (1957), opposite Arthur Lake as her husband, \"Dagwood Bumstead\". \nBritton was married on April 8, 1943, in Texas, to Captain Arthur Steel after they met on a blind date arranged by one of her sisters. After the wedding, he was posted to Italy on active service while Britton remained working at home. They had a daughter, Katherine Lee, born on September 8, 1946. After the war, Steel worked as an advertising executive and went on to manage the Gene Autry hotels (Steel and Autry were first cousins). As their daughter grew up, Britton worked mainly in West Coast theater. She reprised her role in \"Brigadoon\" in 1954; appeared in \"Annie Get Your Gun\" at the Santa Barbara Bowl; and then returned to Broadway to replace an ailing Janis Paige in \"Guys and Dolls\".\n\nWhat is perhaps her signature role began in 1963 and lasted until 1966 when she appeared as the nosy and ditzy landlady, Mrs. Lorelei Brown, in \"My Favorite Martian\". After the series ended, Britton appeared in the movies, \"If It's Tuesday, This Must Be Belgium\" and \"Suppose They Gave a War and Nobody Came\".\n\nIn May 1974, while performing on tour with Don Knotts in \"The Mind with the Dirty Man\", Britton began to have headaches. She was diagnosed with a brain tumor and succumbed within weeks. Britton died in Arlington Heights, Illinois, on June 17, 1974. She was 51. Britton is buried at Forest Lawn Memorial Park in the Hollywood Hills.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247312", "title": "Soccer Saturday", "text": "Soccer Saturday\n\nGillette Soccer Saturday is a weekly television programme broadcast on Sky Sports in the United Kingdom and Ireland during the football season. The programme updates viewers on the progress of association football games in the United Kingdom on Saturday afternoons. The current host is Jeff Stelling. The programme is sponsored by Gillette.\n\nSoccer Saturday grew out of \"Sports Saturday\", which started in August 1992 and was hosted by Paul Dempsey and Sue Barker. \"Sports Saturday\" was similar in format to the BBC's \"Grandstand\" programme featuring a variety of sports and as with \"Grandstand\", the programme finished with news of the day's football. Current host Jeff Stelling joined the programme in 1994 and became its sole presenter a year later.\n\nFor the 1998/99 season, the programme became a football-only programme and accordingly the name of the programme changed to Soccer Saturday.\n\nPrior to May 2010, portions of the programme were simulcast on Sky Sports 1 as well as Sky Sports News. The portions simulcast were between 12:00–12:30 pm and 3:00 pm–5:15 pm, although this differed depending on the matches being covered on Sky Sports 1. From the start of the 2010–11 season these simulcasts were dropped and for the next three seasons the programme was exclusive to Sky Sports News but this Sky Sports 1 simulcast returned for the 2013–14 season as part of Sky Sports 1's new all-day Saturday football service. For the 2014–15 season the programme moved from Sky Sports 1 to Sky Sports 5 but reverted to Sky Sports 1 for the 2016–17 season.\n\nSoccer Saturday is broadcast from 12 noon on Sky Sports News and lasts for up to six hours. The programme begins with the host and four regular in-studio pundits previewing the weekend's matches, reviewing recent results and debating current issues in football. The show is also famous for the rapport between the pundits and the presenter. There is much banter between the pundits and Jeff Stelling, who, in a good humoured manner, often points out each other's mistakes and incorrect predictions. Stelling exuberantly celebrates goals scored by his favorite team (Hartlepool United). Viewers are kept updated on the progress of early kick-offs by reporters at the games and by graphics below and to the right of the director's cut. These graphics also includes latest team news and league standings.\n\nFrom 3 pm to 5.15 pm, Soccer Saturday provides running coverage of the 3 pm league matches, no games are televised in the UK (and only one of which is televised in Ireland). The graphics display a vidiprinter and cycle through current scores in the English and Scottish leagues, with Jeff Stelling providing commentary on the events as they unfold. Significant events at the most high-profile games – almost always in the Premier League – are described by the studio panel who each watch a game on a monitor. Other games deemed important are reported on by correspondents at the grounds connected to the studio by a video link, ISDN or telephone.\n\nAfter the 3 pm games finish, the classified football results are read by Alan Lambourn and this is followed by a run-through of the updated league tables. A commercial break then follows and this is when the vidiprinter is removed from the screen. For the final 45 minutes of the programme the studio pundits discuss the games they have been watching, and post-match interviews with players and managers are shown.\n\nThe regular format occasionally changes, for example during international windows when the Premier League does not play, the show is often shortened to 2:00 pm to 5:30 pm, and League 1 and 2 fixtures are then covered by the studio pundits as opposed to the usual Premier League ones. Stelling no longer presents Soccer Saturday during the international break, with duties being handed over to Julian Warren.\n\nA programme with the same format is also broadcast when there are a number of midweek games, such as on UEFA Champions League nights, in which case it is known as \"Soccer Special\". Since 2011, Soccer Special has been hosted by Julian Warren. Between 2008–2011, Ed Chamberlin presented the programme. He had previously shared presenting the programme with Ian Payne during the previous season. \"Soccer Special\" was hosted by Stelling until he began presenting \"Monday Night Football\" at the start of the 2005–06 season. The midweek Soccer Specials are often simulcast on Sky Sports 1. From the 2015-2016 season, Stelling started presenting Soccer Special again as Sky lost the rights to Champions League coverage to BT Sport.\n\nThe \"Soccer Special\" name is also used when a full afternoon programme of football is played on a day other than Saturday, which usually only occurs on Boxing Day, New Year's Day (unless that falls on either Friday or Sunday) and Easter Monday as well as the last day of the Championship and the last day of the Premier League season as both are normally played on a Sunday. On these occasions the programme is usually presented by Stelling and follows the normal Soccer Saturday format.\n\nFor a few years during the summer, the show was replaced with \"Sports Saturday\", which is more akin to the show's original format, concentrating on sports other than football due to the absence of competitive football during the summer. This again was presented by Ed Chamberlin. The programme did not return in 2009 or 2010, but was revived in July 2011, although it was presented by regular Sky Sports News presenters.\n\nHowever, in August 2010, Sky announced the launch of \"Sports Sunday with Jamie Such\" as presenter, which airs Sundays from 13:00–18:00. This programme, similar to the old Sports Saturday format, was initially presented by Ed Chamberlain but since his promotion in early 2011 to additional football presenting duties on Sky Sports, is now presented by other presenters from the Sky Sports News roster.\n\n\nRodney Marsh was a regular pundit, known for his outspoken views, until being sacked by Sky Sports in early 2005 after a joke referencing the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami. George Best was also a regular until leaving in 2004 to fight alcohol problems. Other former studio analysts include Frank McLintock, Alan Brazil, Clive Allen and Gordon McQueen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247321", "title": "Haughton Green", "text": "Haughton Green\n\nHaughton Green is a large village in Tameside, Greater Manchester, England. It formed part of the ancient township of Haughton, Lancashire, along with Haughton Dale, Higher Haughton, Lower Haughton, Haughton Hall and Haughton itself.\n\nOriginally, farming was the main occupation but the discovery of rich deposits of coal brought mining to the area. The soil was not particularly productive and farmers in both Haughton and Denton supplemented their incomes by making felt hats and this industry ultimately dominated the area and made Denton famous for this industry rather than the more usual industries of cotton spinning and weaving.\n\nThe Church of St Mary the Virgin was dedicated in March 1876. It was funded and specified by James Walton, father of Frederick Walton the investor of Linoleum. James owned the Haughton Dale Mill, which despite its name was not a cotton mill, instead providing wire for James' successful carding business. The church has an oak frame with plaster-and-cement walls between. The architects were Medland and Henry Taylor, and the building has a nave with four bays and a south aisle of three bays. An red-brick, octagonal bell tower stands to the side of the main building.\n\nHaughton adopted the Local Government Act, establishing the Haughton Local Board, in 1877 (neighbouring Denton had adopted the Act in 1857). In 1884, the Denton and Haughton Local Boards amalgamated into a single local authority, the Denton and Haughton Local Board. In 1894 this became the Denton Urban District Council, with Haughton being struck out of the formal title by Order of the Lancashire County Council, although the former township still remained as ecclesiastical parishes (Haughton, St Mary the Virgin and Haughton, St Anne). On 1 April 1974, Denton, became part of the Tameside Metropolitan Borough in the metropolitan county of Greater Manchester, England.\n\nHaughton Green is mainly a residential area that has roughly 3,000 households. Many of the shops and services are located on the main road of the old village, Haughton Green Road, which includes a post office and many other shops.\n\nHaughton Green was mainly a rural area, with most of its built up areas along the main roads and in the original village. It was only at the end of the 19th century and early 20th century that it became more built up and became more so when the Manchester (Beswick) overspill estate was located here in the late fifties behind existing housing on Two Trees Lane. There was also building of new middle class housing in and around the original village at the same time. This increased the size of the village significantly as housing here now extended down into the valley and next to wooded areas.\n\nThe village now forms part of the Denton South Ward on Tameside Council and the three local councillors are George Newton, Mike Fowler and Claire Reid. Andrew Gwynne is the Member of Parliament for Haughton Green, which is a part of the Denton and Reddish Parliamentary Constituency. Other nearby overspill council estates are Hattersley and Gamesley.\n\nHaughton Green is served by three primary schools and a secondary school.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247325", "title": "Margaret of Austria, Queen of Spain", "text": "Margaret of Austria, Queen of Spain\n\nMargaret of Austria (25 December 1584 – 3 October 1611) was Queen consort of Spain and Portugal by her marriage to King Philip III and II.\n\nMargaret was the daughter of Archduke Charles II of Austria and Maria Anna of Bavaria and thus the paternal granddaughter of the Holy Roman Emperor Ferdinand I. Her elder brother was the Archduke Ferdinand, who succeeded as Emperor in 1619. Two of her sisters, Anna and Constance, through their subsequent marriages to King Sigismund III Vasa, became Queens of Poland.\n\nMargaret married Philip III of Spain, her first-cousin, once-removed, on 18 April 1599.\n\nShe became a very influential figure at her husband's court. Philip had an \"affectionate, close relationship\" with Margaret, and paid her additional attention after she bore him a son in 1605.\n\nMargaret was also a great patron of the arts. She was considered by contemporaries to be a very pious Catholic and \"astute and very skillful\" in her political dealings.\n\nAlongside the Empress Maria, widow of Holy Roman Emperor Maximilian II, and the latter's daughter Archduchess Margaret, who lived as a nun in Madrid, Queen Margaret formed a circle of women wielding considerable influence over the king. They emphasised Spain's status as a Catholic power acting in the interest of Catholic Europe and also highlighted the unity of the House of Habsburg. They were successful, for example, in convincing Philip to provide financial support to Holy Roman Emperor Ferdinand II.\n\nThe pro-Austrian camp at the Spanish court was opposed by the Duke of Lerma, the King's chief minister, who argued that Spain should pursue her own course of action independently of religious or dynastic ties. Queen Margaret was \"melancholic\" and unhappy about the influence of Duke, whom she considered corrupt, over her husband, and continually fought him for influence over the king. In this conflict, she was supported by her favourite Mariana de San José, prioress of the \"Monasteria la Encarnación\", her husband's confessor Father Luis de Aliaga, and her daughter Maria Anna's confessor, the Franciscan friar Juan de Santa María - who was felt by contemporaries to have an excessive influence over the King at the end of his life. The Duke of Lerma was eventually removed from power in 1618, though only after Margaret's death.\n\nMargaret died while giving birth to her youngest child, Alfonso. Her husband never remarried and died ten years later.\n\nMargaret and Philip had eight children:\n\nMargaret of Austria is portrayed by Elena Rivera in the Spanish TV show El Ministerio del Tiempo.\n\nActress Viveca Lindfors portrayed Margaret in the 1948 Hollywood movie \"Adventures of Don Juan\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2247334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247334", "title": "UP Diksiyonaryong Filipino", "text": "UP Diksiyonaryong Filipino\n\nThe UP Diksiyonaryong Filipino (UPDF; ) is a monolingual Filipino dictionary. The dictionary is maintained by the University of the Philippines Center for Filipino Language (\"Sentro ng Wikang Filipino\"; UP-SWF), with Virgilio S. Almario, National Artist for Literature and a professor at the University of the Philippines Diliman, as editor-in-chief.\n\nThe first edition of the UPDF was released in 2001, while the second edition was released on July 29, 2010, coinciding with the centennial of the University of the Philippines. A third edition is scheduled for release in 2015, and new editions of the UPDF will be released every five years thereafter. The second edition contains over 200,000 entries.\n\nIn planning since 1996, the UPDF has been likened to a Filipino version of the \"Oxford English Dictionary\". An online version also exists for the benefit of overseas Filipinos.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247340", "title": "Methylprednisolone acetate", "text": "Methylprednisolone acetate\n\nMethylprednisolone acetate is a synthetic glucocorticoid corticosteroid and a corticosteroid ester.\n"}
{"id": "2247343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247343", "title": "Methylprednisolone sodium succinate", "text": "Methylprednisolone sodium succinate\n\nMethylprednisolone sodium succinate is a synthetic glucocorticoid corticosteroid and a corticosteroid ester.\n"}
{"id": "2247345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247345", "title": "Fuorn Pass", "text": "Fuorn Pass\n\nFuorn Pass or Ofen Pass (Romansh: \"Pass dal Fuorn\", , ) (el. 2149 m.) is a high alpine mountain pass in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland. The name is based on the ovens that were used in ironworks in the area. The ruins of these ovens can still be seen from nearby trails. \n\nIt connects Zernez in the Engadin valley with Val Müstair, crossing the (only) Swiss National Park in Switzerland.\n\nIt was here that a brown bear \"(Ursus arctos)\" was seen and photographed in July 2005 - the first sighting of a wild bear in Switzerland since 1923\n\nIn 2004, the biggest Honey fungus spotted in Europe was found near the Pass. The fungus is about 1,000 years old and its diameter is estimated at 500 to 800 meters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247361", "title": "New York Tendaberry", "text": "New York Tendaberry\n\nNew York Tendaberry is the third album by New York City-born singer, songwriter and pianist Laura Nyro. It was released in the autumn of 1969, on Columbia Records, some eighteen months after its predecessor, \"Eli and the Thirteenth Confession\". It was helmed by her, with the assistance of producer and engineer Roy Halee. The cover photograph was taken by David Gahr.\n\n\"New York Tendaberry\" is also considered to be the second in a trilogy of classic original Nyro records, with \"Eli\" and \"Christmas and the Beads of Sweat\" on either side. They are all considered musically and thematically similar, although \"New York Tendaberry\" is the most intense and stark.\n\nIn 1969, Nyro was one of the most popular pop songwriters, and various groups including The 5th Dimension, Three Dog Night, and Blood Sweat and Tears had enjoyed hits with her compositions. Thanks to the strong word of mouth trailing her work, \"New York Tendaberry\" became her most commercially successful record, peaking at #32 on the \"Billboard\" 200, formerly known as the Pop Albums chart.\n\nThe 5th Dimension reached US #27 in the Pop Singles chart (the \"Billboard\" Hot 100) with their version of \"Save the Country\", while artists including Barbra Streisand recorded \"Time and Love\".\n\nIn 2003, the album was included in Mojo's \"Collection\" book of the best albums of all time, and the reissued version was voted among the Best Albums of 2002 in \"Uncut\" magazine.\n\n\"New York Tendaberry\" is strongly influenced by Nyro's hometown, New York City.\n\nNyro sings of lovers and romances in a notably darker tone than on her previous album \"Eli and the Thirteenth Confession\".\n\nMusically, \"New York Tendaberry\" is far more intimate than any other Nyro album. Multi-layered instrumentation is less than on previous efforts as some songs were built around her voice and piano, though the use of strings and classical instrumentation is notable.\n\nNyro guided co-producer and engineer Roy Halee using color metaphors. She could not understand musical notation, and used other analogies to communicate what she wanted.\n\nThe album also uses sound effects such as the gunshot on \"Mercy on Broadway\" and the twinkling sky in \"New York Tendaberry\". Alongside Nyro's piano is a jazz band, an orchestra, and a rock band, though they are used more sparingly than on her previous two releases.\n\nThe album was released after a year of night-time recording sessions, and is considered by most to be Nyro's artistic highpoint.\n\nThe Legacy imprint of Columbia Records reissued the album in remastered and expanded format during the summer of 2002 alongside similar reissues of \"Eli and the Thirteenth Confession\" and \"Gonna Take a Miracle\".\n\nThe reissue featured the previously unreleased song \"In the Country Way,\" recorded by Nyro in 1971; as well as the mono single version of \"Save the Country\", which was recorded in the summer of 1968, in an attempt to give Nyro her first chart hit. This attempt backfired, and she stuck to her solo piano renditions for the \"New York Tendaberry\" album.\n\nThe accompanying booklet features photographs, lyrics and recording details, as well as new liner notes by David Fricke and a back-cover reminiscence from Suzanne Vega. The reissued version was voted among \"Uncut\" magazine's Best Albums of 2002.\n\nPure Pleasure Records added the album to their catalog in 2008. The remastering was made by Ray Staff using the original analog tapes, and brings the original artwork in a gatefold cover, and an audiophile record vinyl in 180 grams.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247366", "title": "Les Dirouilles", "text": "Les Dirouilles\n\nLes Dirouilles (Jèrriais: Les Dithouïl'yes) are a range of rocks to the North-East of Jersey.\n\nThey have a large range of names, taken individually, and are also known as just \"Les Pièrres\" (the rocks).\n\n"}
{"id": "2247367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247367", "title": "Ivan Loveridge Bennett", "text": "Ivan Loveridge Bennett\n\nIvan Loveridge Bennett, Jr. (March 4, 1922 – July 22, 1990) was an American physician who was dean of the NYU School of Medicine and served as president of New York University 1980–1981.\n\nBennett was educated at Emory University where he was a member of Sigma Chi fraternity. Graduated with a B.A. in 1943, and a medical degree in 1946. Bennett was Deputy Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy under Lyndon B. Johnson between 1967 and 1969. Bennett was also director of the department of pathology at Johns Hopkins University and also taught at Yale and New York University.\n\nHe was elected a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1972.\n"}
{"id": "2247370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247370", "title": "Beef bourguignon", "text": "Beef bourguignon\n\nBeef bourguignon () or bœuf bourguignon (; ), also called beef Burgundy, and bœuf à la Bourguignonne, is a beef stew braised in red wine, often red Burgundy, and beef stock, generally flavoured with carrots, onions, garlic, and a \"bouquet garni\", and garnished with pearl onions, mushrooms, and bacon. It is also a dish consisting of a piece of braised beef with the same garnish, when it may be called pièce de bœuf à la bourguignonne.\n\nIt is a well-known French recipe. The name probably refers to the use of wine, and it is likely not a regional recipe from Burgundy.\n\nWhen made with whole roasts, the meat was often larded.\n\nThe dish is considered \"traditional\". Although it was documented in the 19th century, beef bourguignon is probably very ancient. Other recipes called \"à la Bourguignonne\" with similar garnishes are found in the mid-19th century for leg of lamb and for rabbit.\n\nThe dish has become a standard of French cuisine, notably in Parisian bistrots. It only began to be considered as a Burgundian specialty in the twentieth century.\n\nJulia Child has described the dish as \"certainly one of the most delicious beef dishes concocted by man\".\n\nBeef bourguignon is generally accompanied with boiled potatoes or pasta.\n\nIn culinary terminology, \"bourguignon\" is applied to various dishes prepared with wine or with a mushroom and onion garnish in the mid-nineteenth century.\n\nThe dish may be called \"bourguignon\" or \"à la bourguignonne\" in both French and English. It is occasionally called \"beef/bœuf bourguignonne\" in English, but that is considered grammatically incorrect in French.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247371", "title": "Schneeberg Railway (cog railway)", "text": "Schneeberg Railway (cog railway)\n\nThe Schneeberg Railway () is one of three rack railways in Austria still operating, and runs from the small town of Puchberg am Schneeberg in Lower Austria up to a plateau beneath the Schneeberg summit. At , the Schneeberg is the highest mountain in Lower Austria. The other two working cog railways in Austria are the Schafberg Railway (opened in 1893) and the Achensee Railway (opened in 1889).\n\nThe line is long and has a rail gauge of , and uses the Abt rack system to overcome a height difference of . With the emergence of tourism in the second half of the 19th century, the region experienced a growing number of city dwellers looking for destinations close to Vienna. The area of the Vienna Hausberge (\"Viennese Local Mountains\"), the Schneeberg and Rax region, soon emerged as a favourite summer resort of Vienna's wealthy residents and lovers of the countryside. The Schneeberg Railway began its operation in 1897. Designed by Leo Arnoldi, it was built between 1895 and 1897 in two sections: a regular, connecting railroad from Wiener Neustadt to Puchberg; and the cog railway from Puchberg to the mountain plateau.\n\nOriginally operated by the Arnoldi company, whose majority shareholder was the Berlin bank house Landau, the operation was taken over in 1899 by the AG der Eisenbahn Wien–Aspang (EWA) (Vienna-Aspang Rail Company), due to economic problems. From 1937 it was operated by the BBÖ (\"Bundesbahn Österreich\"): the Federal Railway of Austria; the predecessor of today's ÖBB: Austrian Federal Railways), which was an independent commercial company after 1923. After 1940 the railway was fully nationalized, a situation lasting until 1990, when the ÖBB announced it was unable to maintain the existing level of service. Therefore an independent operating company, the \"Niederösterreichische Schneebergbahn GmbH\" (Lower Austrian Schneeberg Railway Company Ltd.) was founded in 1996, with a 50% shareholding owned by the federal state of Lower Austria, and the other 50% held by the ÖBB. Although it was originally operated with steam locomotives, modern diesel locomotives have also been in operation since 1999.\nThese came from Hunslet-Barclay, Kilmarnock, Scotland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247374", "title": "All the Man That I Need", "text": "All the Man That I Need\n\n\"All the Man That I Need\" is a song written by Dean Pitchford and Michael Gore. The song was first recorded as \"All the Man I Need\" by Linda Clifford for her album \"I'll Keep on Loving You\" (1982).\n\nIn 1991, American singer Whitney Houston had a number-one multiple chart hit with this song, recorded as \"All the Man That I Need\", from her third album \"I'm Your Baby Tonight\" (1990). Houston's version featured production from Narada Michael Walden and the single became a major worldwide hit, received mainly positive reviews from music critics, and reached number one on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100; it remains her fourth biggest-hit in that chart. \n\n\"All the Man That I Need\" was originally written in 1981, by Dean Pitchford and Michael Gore. They had Linda Clifford in mind when they wrote the song. They had previously written the song \"Red Light\" from \"Fame\" for her in 1980.\n\nLinda says, \"'All the Man I Need' was actually written for my husband and myself. I recorded it in 1980, when I recorded 'Red Light' from the movie Fame. Whitney Houston recorded it years later.\" As Linda states, writers Michael Gore and Dean Pitchford actually wrote that song for Linda and Nick for the 'I'll Keep Loving You' album. Linda had gotten out of a bad marriage some years earlier and when Michael and Dean saw how happy Linda and Nick were together; the song kind of wrote itself.\n\nClifford recorded her version of the song for inclusion on her album \"I'll Keep on Loving You\", and subsequently released it as a single, but it failed to chart. Later, Pitchford revealed that although different versions of the song were made, no one was really scoring a major success with it. \"I figured that it was one of those songs that was going to get cut a number of times and not ever have its day,\" he said. However, he was a close friend of Arista Records' president Clive Davis, and it was over a dinner with him that the subject of the song \"All the Man That I Need\" again came up. After a discussion between the two regarding the song, a demo version of it was sent to Davis. Davis, was impressed with the song, but felt they would be unable to do anything with it at that time as Houston had recently finished recording her second album, . Then came a long and agonizing wait for Pitchford while Arista went about the task of marketing Houston's second album, \"Whitney\", so this meant that any plans for a third were still some way off. During this interim period, Pitchford's publishers received many requests from interested parties who wanted one of their acts to record the song. However, in the end Houston finally recorded it on her album \"I'm Your Baby Tonight\".\n\n\"All the Man That I Need\" is an R&B song. According to the sheet music published at Musicnotes.com by Alfred Music Publishing, the song is written in the key of F minor with a key change to the key of F-sharp minor. The beat is set in common time, and moves at a slow tempo of 76 beats per minute. It has the sequence of Bm–Fm–E–E/D–D–Cm as its chord progression. Houston's vocals in the song span from the note of C to the note of A, while the piano elements range from the note of B to the high note of F . Stephen Holden of \"The New York Times\", wrote that the song was an \"expression of sexual hero worship.\" The song also features a saxophone solo by American recording artist Kenny G.\n\"All the Man That I Need\" garnered mainly positive reviews from music critics. About.com ranked the song at number 4 in their list of \"Top 20 Best Whitney Houston Songs\", noting that it has \"a prominent gospel choir in the final chorus.\" Allmusic's Ashley S. Battel said that the song is one of \"the two high points she does reach on this album [\"I'm Your Baby Tonight\"]\" and added \"the uplifting tale of another's love being enough to provide happiness in [the song].\" Larry Flick from \"Billboard\" described it as a \"shimmering jazz-and gospel-inflected ballad\" and stated that it \"fully demonstrates Houston's vocal beauty\". Greg Kot of \"Chicago Tribune\" was also positive in his review, writing that through the song, Houston was providing \"soundtrack to a million love affairs.\" \"Music & Media\" noted the song as a \"staggering gospel-tinged ballad with an overwhelming build-up in the chorus.\" \"The New York Times\" Stephen Holden was also positive in his review, viewing the song as a \"hunk of gargantuan pop bombast swathed in echo and glitzy astral twinkles.\" James Hunter from \"Rolling Stone\" magazine called it \"an outsize ballad about poverty and damaged self-regard, so expertly that the song, with its effective whiff of Spanish guitar, stages undeniable pop drama.\"\n\n\"All the Man That I Need\" was nominated for \"Best Pop Vocal Performance, Female,\" Houston's fifth nomination for the category, at the 34th Grammy Awards on February 26, 1992. The song was also nominated for \"Best R&B/Soul Single, Female\" at the 6th Soul Train Music Awards on March 10, 1992.\n\nReleased in December 1990, \"All the Man That I Need\" entered the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 Singles chart at number 53, the issue dated December 22, 1990. Ten weeks later, on the issue dated February 23, 1991, it ascended to the top of the chart, becoming Houston's ninth number-one on the chart. It stayed atop the chart for two weeks. It also topped the Hot 100 Singles Sales and Hot 100 Airplay charts, her first song to achieve this feat since \"Where Do Broken Hearts Go\" in 1988. It enjoyed a seven week run in the top ten of the chart, which was one week shorter than that of the album's lead single \"I'm Your Baby Tonight.\" The single entered the \"Billboard\" Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs (formerly Hot R&B Singles) at number 58, the same week it debuted on the Hot 100. It later peaked at number one on the chart, the issue date of March 2, 1991, making it Houston's fifth R&B number-one hit. When it hit the pole position of the R&B chart, the single spent its second and third week at the top of the Hot 100 and Hot Adult Contemporary charts, respectively. As a result, it became her first single topped simultaneously all of three different \"Billboard\" charts — the Hot 100, Hot R&B, and Hot Adult Contemporary — and overall the third triple-crown hit, after 1985's \"Saving All My Love for You\" and 1986's \"How Will I Know,\" reached the top spot on those of three charts in separate weeks. The song maintained the top position of the Adult Contemporary chart for four weeks, her second-longest stay on the chart. It was ranked number 16 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 Year-End chart for 1991. The single was certified Gold by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) for shipments of 500,000 copies or more on March 21, 1991. In Canada, the song debuted at 90 on the \"RPM\" Top 100 Hit Tracks chart, the issue date of January 12, 1991. Seven weeks later, it peaked at number one on the chart and stayed there for a week.\n\nInternationally, the song experienced some success. It went to number-one in Canada. It entered the UK Singles Chart at number 27, the week ending date of December 22, 1990, and peaked at number 13 on January 19, 1991, in that country. According to The Official Charts Company, the single has sold 120,000 copies in the United Kingdom. It also reached number 16 in Ireland, 11 in Netherlands, 21 in Austria, and 28 in France. The song also peaked at number 37 in Germany, 36 in New Zealand, and 28 in Switzerland.\n\nThe accompanying music video for \"All the Man That I Need\" was directed by Peter Israelson. The video begins with Houston, donning a curly hairstyle, and wearing a black turtleneck, with her initials \"WH\" embroidered on it, standing against a wall in a house. She then moves forward in the room, and sits on a chair, singing her lines looking into the camera. The video then switches into another room in the house with all white furniture, including a bed, wardrobe, and grand piano, in which Houston sings. She then moves outside on the balcony, where it is raining. After that scene, she is now seen performing, accompanied by a children's choir, on a stage, in front of an audience at some sort of program. The video ends with Houston finishing the performance, with her outline shown online.\n\nHouston performed the song on three of her regional and two world tours. She premiered the song in January 1990, during her Feels So Right Japan Tour, before the release of \"I'm Your Baby Tonight\". The song was performed in 1991 in the \"Welcome Home Heroes with Whitney Houston\" concert. This performance was included in the 2014 CD/DVD release, \"\".\n\nThe song was also performed on her third world tour, I'm Your Baby Tonight World Tour. Two different performances of the song on this tour were taped in Yokohama, Japan, on March 15, 1991 and in A Coruña, Spain, on September 29, 1991. The former was broadcast on Japanese TV channel. The latter was aired on Spanish TV channel, and in the United States, her first hourlong TV special, \"Whitney Houston: This Is My Life,\" on ABC TV, dated May 6, 1992. In addition, the performance can be found on the video: Welcome Home Heroes with Whitney Houston, taped in Norfolk, Virginia, on March 31, 1991.\n\nTwo years later on The Bodyguard World Tour (1993–94), she performed the song as a final part of \"Love Medley,\" along with \"I Love You,\" \"All at Once,\" \"Nobody Love Me Like You Do,\" \"Didn't We Almost Have It All,\" and \"Where Do Broken Hearts Go.\" Four different performances of the song were taped and broadcast on each country's TV channel during South American leg of the tour in 1994: Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, on January 16, during Hollywood Rock festival; Santiago, Chile on April 14; Buenos Aires, Argentina on April 16; and Caracas, Venezuela on April 21. Houston also performed the song on two of her regional tours, The Pacific Rim Tour (1997) and The European Tour (1998).\n\nBesides her tour performances of the song, she performed the song on various TV shows and the concerts. On December 11, 1990, Houston appeared on \"The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson\" (guest host: Jay Leno) and performed the song to accompaniment of her tour band. She also performed the song at \"The Arsenio Hall Show\", and \"Saturday Night Live\" on February 23, 1991, which was her first appearance on the show.\n\n\"All the Man That I Need\" was performed as a part of medley by Houston at the 2nd Billboard Music Awards on December 9, 1991. The medley consisted of two Billie Holiday's classics―\"Lover Man (Oh, Where Can You Be?)\" and \"My Man\"―and the song. In 1996, she performed the song at , a private gig for the wedding of Princess Rashidah, the eldest daughter of the Sultan of Brunei, Hassanal Bolkiah.\n\nIn 1982, the American musical group Sister Sledge recorded another version of the song as \"All the Man I Need\" as a duet with the singer David Simmons, on the Sister Sledge album 'The Sisters' (1982). Their version failed to make a large impact on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, but reached a moderate peak of number forty-five on the Hot R&B Singles chart.\n\nIn 1994, Luther Vandross (who made the arrangements of the original Linda Clifford version) included his own version, \"All the Woman I Need\" on his album \"Songs\". He performed the song at the 2001 BET Awards, in honor of Houston.\n\n\"All the Man That I Need\"\n\"Dancin' on the Smooth Edge\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247376", "title": "Django (web framework)", "text": "Django (web framework)\n\nDjango ( ; stylised as django) is a Python-based free and open-source web framework that follows the model-template-view (MTV) architectural pattern. It is maintained by the Django Software Foundation (DSF), an American independent organization established as a 501(c)(3) non-profit.\n\nDjango's primary goal is to ease the creation of complex, database-driven websites. The framework emphasizes reusability and \"pluggability\" of components, less code, low coupling, rapid development, and the principle of don't repeat yourself. Python is used throughout, even for settings files and data models. Django also provides an optional administrative create, read, update and delete interface that is generated dynamically through introspection and configured via admin models.\n\nSome well known sites that use Django include PBS, Instagram, Mozilla, \"The Washington Times\", Disqus, Bitbucket, and Nextdoor.\n\nDjango was created in the fall of 2003, when the web programmers at the \"Lawrence Journal-World\" newspaper, Adrian Holovaty and Simon Willison, began using Python to build applications. Jacob Kaplan-Moss was hired early in Django's development shortly before Simon Willison's internship ended. It was released publicly under a BSD license in July 2005. The framework was named after guitarist Django Reinhardt. \n\nIn June 2008, it was announced that a newly formed Django Software Foundation (DSF) would maintain Django in the future.\n\nDespite having its own nomenclature, such as naming the callable objects generating the HTTP responses \"views\", the core Django framework can be seen as an MVC architecture. It consists of an object-relational mapper (ORM) that mediates between data models (defined as Python classes) and a relational database (\"Model\"), a system for processing HTTP requests with a web templating system (\"View\"), and a regular-expression-based URL dispatcher (\"Controller\").\n\nAlso included in the core framework are:\n\nThe main Django distribution also bundles a number of applications in its \"contrib\" package, including:\n\nDjango's configuration system allows third party code to be plugged into a regular project, provided that it follows the reusable app conventions. More than 2500 packages are available to extend the framework's original behavior, providing solutions to issues the original tool didn't tackle: registration, search, API provision and consumption, CMS, etc.\n\nThis extensibility is, however, mitigated by internal components' dependencies. While the Django philosophy implies loose coupling, the template filters and tags assume one engine implementation, and both the auth and admin bundled applications require the use of the internal ORM. None of these filters or bundled apps are mandatory to run a Django project, but reusable apps tend to depend on them, encouraging developers to keep using the official stack in order to benefit fully from the apps ecosystem.\n\nDjango can be run in conjunction with Apache, Nginx using WSGI, Gunicorn, or Cherokee using flup (a Python module). Django also includes the ability to launch a FastCGI server, enabling use behind any web server which supports FastCGI, such as Lighttpd or Hiawatha. It is also possible to use other WSGI-compliant web servers. Django officially supports four database backends: PostgreSQL, MySQL, SQLite, and Oracle. Microsoft SQL Server can be used with django-mssql on Microsoft operating systems, while similarly external backends exist for IBM Db2, SQL Anywhere and Firebird. There is a fork named django-nonrel, which supports NoSQL databases, such as MongoDB and Google App Engine's Datastore.\n\nDjango may also be run in conjunction with Jython on any Java EE application server such as GlassFish or JBoss. In this case django-jython must be installed in order to provide JDBC drivers for database connectivity, which also can provide functionality to compile Django in to a .war suitable for deployment.\n\nGoogle App Engine includes support for Django version 1.x.x as one of the bundled frameworks.\n\nThe Django team will occasionally designate certain releases to be “long-term support” (LTS) releases. LTS releases will get security and data loss fixes applied for a guaranteed period of time, typically 3+ years, regardless of the pace of releases afterwards.\n\nFor developing a Django project, no special tools are necessary, since the source code can be edited with any conventional text editor.\nNevertheless, editors specialized on computer programming can help increase the productivity of development, e.g., with features such as syntax highlighting. Since Django is written in Python, text editors which are aware of Python syntax are beneficial in this regard.\n\nIntegrated development environments (IDE) add further functionality, such as debugging, refactoring, and unit testing. As with plain editors, IDEs with support for Python can be beneficial. Some IDEs that are specialized on Python additionally have integrated support for Django projects, so that using such an IDE when developing a Django project can help further increase productivity. For comparison of such Python IDEs, see the main article:\nThere is a semiannual conference for Django developers and users, named \"DjangoCon\", that has been held since September 2008. DjangoCon is held annually in Europe, in May or June; while another is held in the United States in August or September, in various cities. The 2012 DjangoCon took place in Washington, D.C., from 3 to 8 September. 2013 DjangoCon was held in Chicago at the Hyatt Regency Hotel and the post-conference Sprints were hosted at Digital Bootcamp, computer training center. The 2014 DjangoCon US returned to Portland, OR from 30 August to 6 September. The 2015 DjangoCon US was held in Austin, TX from 6 to 11 September at the AT&T Executive Center. The 2016 DjangoCon US was held in Philadelphia, PA at The Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania from 17 to 22 July.The 2017 DjangoCon US was held in Spokane, WA; in 2018 DjangoCon US was held in San Diego, CA. DjangoCon US 2019 was held again in San Diego, CA from Sept 22–27.\n\nDjango mini-conferences are usually held every year as part of the Australian Python Conference 'PyCon AU'. Previously, these mini-conferences have been held in:\n\n\nDjango has spawned user groups and meetups around the world, the most notable group is the Django Girls organization, which began in Poland but now has had events in 91 countries.\n\nProgrammers have ported Django's template design from Python to other languages, providing decent cross-platform support. Some of these options are more direct ports; others, though inspired by Django and retaining its concepts, take the liberty to deviate from Django's design:\n\nThis list is an extraction from Current Django Books\n"}
{"id": "2247377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247377", "title": "Agrostology", "text": "Agrostology\n\nAgrostology (from Greek , \"agrōstis\", \"type of grass\"; and , \"-logia\"), sometimes graminology, is the scientific study of the grasses (the family Poaceae, or Gramineae). The grasslike species of the sedge family (Cyperaceae), the rush family (Juncaceae), and the bulrush or cattail family (Typhaceae) are often included with the true grasses in the category of graminoid, although strictly speaking these are not included within the study of agrostology. In contrast to the word graminoid, the words gramineous and graminaceous are normally used to mean \"of, or relating to, the true grasses (Poaceae)\".\n\nAgrostology has importance in the maintenance of wild and grazed grasslands, agriculture (crop plants such as rice, maize, sugarcane, and wheat are grasses, and many types of animal fodder are grasses), urban and environmental horticulture, turfgrass management and sod production, ecology, and conservation.\n\nBotanists that made important contributions to agrostology include:\n"}
{"id": "2247380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247380", "title": "ISO 10303 Application Modules", "text": "ISO 10303 Application Modules\n\nThe STEP Application modules define common building blocks to create modular Application Protocols (AP) within ISO 10303. Higher-level modules are built up from lower-level modules. The modules on the lowest level are \"wrappers\" of concepts, defined in the Integrated Resources (IR) or Application Integrated Constructs (AIC). Modules on a medium level link lower level modules with each other and specialize them. Only modules on the highest levels completely cover a particular area so that they can be implemented.\n\nImplementation modules and modules defining conformance classes:\n\nFoundation modules:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247384", "title": "Robert Gildea", "text": "Robert Gildea\n\nRobert Nigel Gildea (born 12 September 1952) is professor of Modern History at the University of Oxford and is the author of several influential books on 20th century French history. He was educated at Merton College, Oxford, before attending St Antony's for a D.Phil under the supervision of Theodore Zeldin. His D.Phil. research was in French provincial education. Before being appointed Fellow in Modern History at Merton in 1979, he was a lecturer at King's College, London.\n\nFor his 2002 book \"Marianne in Chains\", a study of life in provincial France during the German occupation, Gildea won the prestigious Wolfson History Prize. The book, however, outraged members of the French academic elite through its documented claims that life in France had not been as adversely affected by the Nazi occupation because many French people had co-operated with the German invaders – far more so than previously believed.\n\nGildea lives in Oxford with his wife, Lucy-Jean, and four children. He was elevated to the position of Professor of Modern History from being Professor of Modern French History in September 2006, and is currently a Fellow of Worcester College.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247385", "title": "Detroit Times", "text": "Detroit Times\n\nSix different newspapers called the Detroit Times have been published in city of Detroit; the most recent existed for six decades, from 1900-60.\n\n\nThe sixth and most recent version (to date) of the \"Detroit Times\" was published as an evening paper from 1900 until November 6, 1960. The \"Times\" was brought back to life by James Schermerhorn October 1, 1900 as \"Detroit Today\" but quickly changed its name to the \"Evening Times\". The paper was purchased, after the property having been placed in the hands of a receiver, by William Randolph Hearst in the later part of 1921.\n\nAt the time Hearst purchased the \"Times\" it was located at 131 Bagley Street; Hearst wasted no time working out plans for a new state-of-the-art printing plant. With the backing of Hearst, who dispatched famed editor Arthur Brisbane to Detroit to kickstart the new management, the \"Times\" became the fastest-growing paper in the city, rivaling The \"Detroit News\" and the \"Detroit Free Press\" in the great Detroit newspaper war. The \"Times\" hit its highest circulation in 1951, with an average daily high of 438,757 papers sold.\n\nBut the 1950s were not kind to the newspaper business, and the \"Times\"' circulation numbers slipped to about 400,000 copies sold daily by 1960. Rumors of a sale of the Times had been circulating for weeks, then on the evening of Sunday, November 6th, 1960, Newsweek magazine broke the story with the headline,\"One Out In Detroit,\" explaining that Hearst's \"limping\" paper had been sold to The Evening News Association, owner of its \"independently owned, well-heeled competitor,\" \"The Detroit News\". Reports of the sale also appeared that evening on Detroit radio station WXYZ (now WXYT) as well as in the early \"bulldog\" edition of the Detroit Free Press.\n\nThe Free Press reported at the time that only one person at the Times, General Manager William H. Mills, knew of the imminence of the sale, and that H.G. Kern, General Manager of the Hearst chain, had informed Mills of the completion of the sale as early as Friday, November 4, instructing him to only inform the employees on Monday morning.\n\nThe Times' 1,500 employees were given little notice: They received termination telegrams at two in the morning on Monday, November 7, mere hours before they would begin reporting for work. The telegrams stated the following: \"It is with deep regret that the management of the Detroit Times must inform you of termination of your services as of the opening of business on Nov. 7, 1960. It is not necessary for you to report for further duty. Your paycheck will be available on your usual payday in the Detroit Times lobby. The chief accountant has been instructed to mail you a check as soon as possible for any monies that may be due you under the collective bargaining agreement between the Detroit Times and the Guild.\" The telegrams offered no explanations for the terminations. Employees were only informed that the building was locked and there were armed guards around it. A week or so later employees could return to clear their desks, accompanied by those armed guards. The news of the sale was delivered to the newsroom staff in the middle of the night, at approximately 3am on Monday, November 7. They were nearly finished with that day's first edition of the Times, but were given the news, told to stop what they were doing and to leave the premises, making the Sunday, November 6, 1960 edition, the final ever for the Detroit Times.\n\nOn Monday November 7, the day after reports of the sale began to surface, and the day after the unannounced final edition of the Times, The News and Hearst released a joint statement reporting the sale as a merger. The $10 million deal included the Times, its building, its presses, all physical assets, distribution rights and subscription lists. That same day, The News began showing the Times' masthead below theirs, displaying, \"The Detroit News - including the best features from the Detroit Times,\" meaning that even as former Times workers were still trying to absorb the shock of the news they had just received that morning, Times subscribers would begin receiving deliveries of The News - featuring the Times masthead - later that afternoon.\n\nIn reality, very few of the Times' staff were offered jobs with the \"merged\" paper, as it was no merger. The News had in fact, purchased the Times, closed it down in the middle of the night with no advance warning, locked down its building, and fired its employees. Many of the Times’ pressman, stereotypers, paper handlers, machinists, electricians and mailers were offered jobs printing The News. The News also offered all Times carriers jobs. The biggest names amongst the Times’ reporters were cherry-picked for positions with the expanding operations of The News, as well as the rival Detroit Free Press. About 400 of the Times’ Guild members, were sent scrambling for jobs at out-of-town papers, or left to find jobs in different industries.\n\nHearst executives expressed \"regret at leaving Detroit\" after nearly 40 years, but said that, much like the current troubling era for print journalism, \"the Times has been beset by the same basic problems confronting so many other metropolitan newspapers,\" and that circulation and advertising were not rising to match the cost of doing business. The Times had reportedly lost $10 million in the previous five years.\n\nThe prevailing opinion of the sale was that the Hearst papers, who were in financial trouble, sold the \"Detroit Times\" because it was one of the few properties that anyone wanted to buy. On November 11, The News began using the Times' presses to help with its huge bump in circulation. Before The News bought the Times, its daily circulation was around 525,000 and 740,000 on Sunday. After the sale, The News was printing 900,000 copies daily and 1.2 million on Sundays. (The first such Sunday run, on Nov. 13, 1960, broke the record for largest print run in the history of Detroit.) About 300,000 of the 900,000 daily copies and 200,000 of the Sunday copies were printed on the Times’ presses. This acquisition is a major reason why for many years, The Detroit News could boast beneath its masthead of having \"The Largest Evening Circulation In America,\" which was eventually downsized to \"Michigan's Largest Newspaper.\" That lasted until The News was overtaken in daily circulation by the rival Detroit Free Press.\n\nThe News would continue to use the Detroit Times' presses along with its own until 1975, when it opened a new, state-of-the art printing press in Sterling Heights, Michigan, that replaced both, and is still in use to this day, publishing The News, the rival Free Press, (due to a joint operating agreement) and several other papers. The Times' building was demolished in 1978. The area where the \"Detroit Times\" was located is called Times Square, although the Square itself was removed to make way for the Rosa Parks Transit Center in 2009.\n\nThe \"Detroit Times\" should not be confused with the \"Detroit Metro Times,\" the original name of the weekly \"Metro Times\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2247386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247386", "title": "Paul Pasqualoni", "text": "Paul Pasqualoni\n\nPaul Lucian Pasqualoni (; born August 16, 1949) is an American football coach. He was previously the defensive line coach at Boston College. He is a former head coach for the Syracuse University football team.\n\nPasqualoni has served as the defensive coordinator of the NFL's Miami Dolphins and Detroit Lions, and as the defensive line coach and interim defensive coordinator of the Dallas Cowboys. He was the head coach of the Syracuse University football team from 1991 to 2004.\n\nA native of Cheshire, Connecticut, Pasqualoni attended Cheshire High School, where he lettered in football and basketball. Following graduation, he continued to Bordentown Military Institute, also lettering on the football squad, and graduating in 1968. Pasqualoni then enrolled at Penn State, where he was a walk-on and subsequent letterman, as a linebacker under head coach Joe Paterno. In 1972, he received a B.S in health and physical education, then finished his education at Southern Connecticut State, receiving a M.S. in physical education and human performance.\n\nPasqualoni began his coaching career in 1972, while a graduate student at Southern Connecticut, as an assistant at his alma mater, Cheshire High School, where he remained for four seasons. After completing his master's degree, he was hired in 1976 as an assistant at Southern Connecticut by then-head coach, George DeLeone, who also served as a future assistant at Syracuse with Pasqualoni under Dick MacPherson. Pasqualoni was promoted to defensive coordinator in 1980, a position which he held for two seasons.\n\nIn 1982, Pasqualoni was hired away from Southern by in-state school Western Connecticut, as its head coach and athletic director. In five seasons with the Colonials, he amassed a 34–17 record, and coached the team to a 1985 New England Football Conference championship and appearance in the NCAA Division III playoffs.\n\nPasqualoni was an assistant at Syracuse from 1987 until 1991, when he was promoted to head coach after the position was vacated by Dick MacPherson, who left for the NFL to coach the New England Patriots. The Orange (then known as the Orangemen) enjoyed a number of successful years with Pasqualoni at the helm. The team won the Fiesta Bowl over Colorado in 1992 and defeated Clemson 41–0 in Gator Bowl in 1995, Donovan McNabb's freshman year. The team had a 6–3 record in bowl games under Pasqualoni. Pasqualoni's 14-year record with Syracuse was 107–59–1. His only losing season was in 2002 with a 4–8 record. Most seasons of his tenure saw Syracuse competing in the Top 25 in the country.\n\nWhile coach of the Orangemen, Pasqualoni's roots in Connecticut led him to recruit many star players from Connecticut high schools, including Bloomfield's Dwight Freeney, New Britain's Tebucky Jones and the McIntosh brothers from Cheshire High School.\n\nAt the conclusion of the 2004 season the team lost the Champs Sports Bowl 51–14. New athletic director Daryl Gross fired Pasqualoni on December 29, 2004, despite Syracuse's president, Nancy Cantor, publicly stating that Pasqualoni would be on the sideline the next season. He was replaced by Greg Robinson, who had been serving as the defensive coordinator at the University of Texas. During the 2005 season, the first season in 14 years without Pasqualoni leading the team and the first in 17 years without him on the staff, the Orange posted a record of 1–10, the worst on-field record in the 117-year history of Syracuse football.\n\nIn 2015, Syracuse vacated all of its wins from 2004 due to ineligible players. As a result, Pasqualoni's final season is \"officially\" the first winless season in school history.\n\nOn January 13, 2011, Pasqualoni was hired to lead the University of Connecticut football program, by soon to be dismissed AD Jeff Hathaway, two weeks after former coach Randy Edsall left for the University of Maryland. His two full seasons saw identical records of 5–7 — only his second and third losing seasons as a Division I-A/FBS head coach. He was dismissed as coach of the Huskies on September 30, 2013 in the midst of his 3rd season after starting 0–4.\n\nBefore becoming linebackers coach in 2005, Pasqualoni served as the Cowboys' coach of tight ends for the 2005 season, where he is credited for the continued development of Jason Witten leading to his second consecutive trip to the Pro Bowl. In 2006, Pasqualoni became the coach of the linebackers, being influential in DeMarcus Ware's success in that position. On November 8, 2010, Pasqualoni was promoted to interim defensive coordinator resulting from the firing of Wade Phillips, as Phillips served as both head coach and defensive coordinator for the Cowboys.\n\nPasqualoni was hired as the defensive coordinator of the Miami Dolphins on January 22, 2008.\n\nPasqualoni was fired by the Dolphins on January 11, 2010.\n\nHe was subsequently hired as the defensive line coach for the Dallas Cowboys.\n\nOn January 16, 2014, Pasqualoni was hired as the Chicago Bears defensive line coach.\n\nOn January 25, 2015 Pasqualoni was hired as the Houston Texans new defensive line coach. On January 20, 2016, Pasqualoni resigned.\n\nOn February 7, 2018, Pasqualoni was hired as the defensive coordinator of the Detroit Lions. On January 2, 2020, Pasqualoni decided to step away from football, leaving his position in Detroit.\n\nPasqualoni is married to the former Jill Fleischman, whom he met while coaching at Syracuse University. Together, they have two sons, Dante Paul and Tito Lucian, and a daughter, Cami Mae. He is also the author, with Jim McLaughlin, of the book \"Coaching Youth Football\", .\n\n"}
{"id": "2247388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247388", "title": "Dolly (1976 series)", "text": "Dolly (1976 series)\n\nDolly is an American variety show starring Dolly Parton that aired in first-run syndication during the 1976–1977 season.\n\nIn the mid-1970s, Parton was approached by Bill Graham, president of Show Biz, Inc., the same company that produced \"The Porter Wagoner Show\" (on which Parton had co-starred for seven years), and soon afterward the syndicated variety show \"Dolly\" was created.\n\nThe show boasted a budget of $85,000 per episode, an impressive sum for a syndicated series, making it the most expensive show to be produced out of Nashville at the time. A variety of Nashville and Hollywood stars appeared on the show, including Karen Black, Tom T. Hall, Emmylou Harris, The Hues Corporation, Captain Kangaroo, Lynn Anderson, Marilyn McCoo and Billy Davis Jr., Ronnie Milsap, Anne Murray, Kenny Rogers, Linda Ronstadt, KC and the Sunshine Band, and Anson Williams. According a 1978 biography by Alanna Nash, Parton spoke to Bob Dylan and he initially agreed to do the show, but eventually bowed out due to his discomfort with the television medium at the time.\n\nAmong the more well received installments, was one featuring the first televised performance of the Trio: Parton, Emmylou Harris and Linda Ronstadt, a full decade before they released the first of their two critically acclaimed albums.\n\nThe show was also the first time Parton and Kenny Rogers worked together; the two would top the country and pop charts in 1983 with their mega hit \"Islands in the Stream\".\n\nDespite the work that went into the show and the diverse collection of guests, Parton was said to have been less than pleased with the end product, as she found herself singing standards like \"My Funny Valentine\", which she felt didn't suit her voice or musical style, and interacting with guests with whom she had little in common. She told Nash during a 1977 interview:\n\nThe show lasted only one season despite very high ratings, falling apart when Parton asked out of her contract for a variety of reasons, including the toll that eighteen-hour days were taking on her vocal cords.\n\nThe show's opening theme was \"Love Is Like a Butterfly\". During the opening credits, Parton emerges on a swing and then comes down to sing the opening song, either a cover of a then-current hit, or occasionally one of her own hits.\n\nAt the closing of the show, Parton speaks the recitation from \"I Will Always Love You\", \"And I hope life treats you kind, and I hope that you have all you ever dream of. I wish you joy and lots and lots of happiness, but above all this, I wish you love, I love you\" and then she says \"Goodnight\" and sings the rest of the song and the closing credits roll.\n\nDuring the late 1970s and into the early 1980s, as Parton's popularity grew, \"Dolly\" was seen widely in reruns.\n\nOn February 27, 2007, six episodes of the series were released on DVD under the title \"Dolly Parton & Friends\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2247405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247405", "title": "Lawrence Langner", "text": "Lawrence Langner\n\nLawrence Langner (May 30, 1890 – 1962) was a playwright, author, and producer who also pursued a career as a patent attorney.\n\nBorn near Swansea, South Wales and working most of his life in the United States, he started his theatrical career as one of the founders of the Washington Square Players troupe in 1914. He was also involved in patent law and founded the National Inventors Council.\n\nIn 1919 he founded the Theatre Guild, where he supervised over 200 productions. He was also founder and Chairman of the American Shakespeare Festival, and with his wife, Armina Marshall, he created and operated the Westport Country Playhouse.\n\nBesides theatre, Lawrence Langner wrote several books, including an autobiography, titled \"Magic Curtain\". He was awarded the 1958 Tony Award for best play production (together with his wife and partners, Theresa Helburn and Dore Schary) for \"Sunrise at Campobello\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247408", "title": "Alberto Cárdenas", "text": "Alberto Cárdenas\n\nAlberto Cárdenas Jiménez (born April 4, 1958) is a Mexican politician affiliated with the conservative National Action Party (PAN). He is a former governor of Jalisco, (2000 - 2006). And Secretary of Agriculture in the cabinet of Felipe Calderón (1 December 2006 – 7 September 2009). In 2006 he was elected to the Senate for PAN, representing the state of Jalisco, with his term running until 2012.\n\nCárdenas was born in Zapotlán el Grande, Jalisco. He received a bachelor's degree in Industrial Engineering from the Ciudad Guzmán Technological Institute and both a master's degree in Business Planning and Ph.D. in Industrial Engineering from the Polytechnical University of Madrid, in Spain.\n\nHe was the mayor of Ciudad Guzmán from 1992 until 1994 and served as governor of Jalisco from 1995 until 2001. After leaving the post he was appointed general director of the National Forestry Commission. From 2003 until 2005 he headed the Secretariat of Environment and Natural Resources in the cabinet of Vicente Fox.\n\nOn July 7, 2005, he was formally registered in the presidential primary election of the National Action Party. He competed for the nomination with former fellow cabinet members Santiago Creel and Felipe Calderón, but ultimately lost to Calderón. In the general election of July 2, 2006, he was elected to the Senate for the PAN, representing the state of Jalisco.\n\nCárdenas is married to Joann Novoa Mossberger and has three children: Andrea, Alberto and Álvaro.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247418", "title": "Moya Lear", "text": "Moya Lear\n\nMoya Marie Olsen Lear (March 27, 1915 – December 5, 2001) was an American businesswoman and the wife of aviation pioneer Bill Lear. Her father was vaudeville performer Ole Olsen, whose Depression-era show \"Hellzapoppin'\" was one of the longest running Broadway musicals in history. Her mother was Lillian. Moya earned her bachelor's degree at Ohio State University and the Pace Institute in New York.\n\nMoya was introduced to Bill Lear by her father in his dressing room in 1938 while she was writing \"The Book\" for the play. She told Victor Boesen that she had dreamed of being a famous dancer, in the mold of Anna Pavlova and Vaslav Nijinsky, only to be told by her teacher that she would make a good jitterbug.\nLear and she were married in 1942. In 1946, the couple moved to Grand Rapids, Michigan where Lear conducted his avionics manufacturing and development.\n\nIn 1967, the Learjet company was sold and the Stead Air Force Base near Reno, Nevada, was acquired. Moya became active in Nevada Festival Ballet, the Sierra Arts Foundation, and Nevada Opera.\n\nShe received six honorary doctoral degrees. She devoted a substantial amount of time to philanthropy in the Reno, Nevada area. After the death of her husband, Lear attempted with investors to complete his innovative lightweight turboprop airplane, the LearAvia Lear Fan. The project ultimately failed to obtain FAA certification because of a gearing problem, and never went into production.\n\nFrom 1981-1983, Bonnie Tiburzi put on three “Women of Accomplishment” luncheons for the Wings Club honoring certain women, including Moya Lear.\n\nMoya and Bill Lear had four children: well-known pilot, UFOlogist and conspiracy theorist John Lear, Shanda Lear, David and Tina.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247419", "title": "Jana of the Jungle", "text": "Jana of the Jungle\n\nJana of the Jungle is an American animated television series created by Doug Wildey and produced by Hanna-Barbera Productions which aired on NBC from September 9, 1978, to December 2, 1978. It was originally broadcast as a half-hour segment of \"The Godzilla Power Hour\" (1978) and its later expanded form \"The Godzilla Super 90\" (1978–79).\n\nJana (voiced by B.J. Ward) is essentially a female version of Tarzan who traveled to the rain forests of South America in search of her lost father (whom she never finds). Her father vanished in a boating accident when she was still a child, but the introduction shows that he survived. She has long blonde hair, wears a dress made of unspecified animal skin and a necklace which doubles as a throwable weapon and makes a high-pitched resonating sound when thrown (somewhat similar to the chakram that would be the weapon of choice for the later, live-action \"Xena, Warrior Princess\") given to her by her father before the boating accident.\n\nBesides her animal friends (Ghost, a sleek white jaguar and Tico, a pesky water opossum), Jana has two human friends: Dr. Ben Cooper (voiced by Michael Bell), a young wildlife biologist who maintained the preserve started by Jana's father and helped in her continuing search for her father; and Montaro (voiced by Ted Cassidy), a descendant of a lost warrior tribe armed with a supernatural weapon known as the Staff of Power that can cause earthquake shockwaves when it strikes the ground. Montaro rescued Jana from the boating accident in which her father disappeared.\n\nThese are some of the jungle animals Jana called to, many for help:\n\n\"Jana of the Jungle\" was originally broadcast in these following formats on NBC:\n\nA total of 13 original episodes of \"Jana of the Jungle\" were produced in 1978, with the first eight broadcast as part of the second half of \"The Godzilla Power Hour\" from September 9 to October 28. In November 1978, when \"The Godzilla Power Hour\" was expanded to 90 minutes (with the addition of \"Jonny Quest\" reruns) and re-titled \"The Godzilla Super 90\", the five remaining episodes of \"Jana of the Jungle\" continued on this new format until December 2. The Jana character also made a cameo appearance piloting a rocket-car in an episode of \"Yogi's Space Race\" in 1978.\n\n\"Jana of the Jungle\" resurfaced in 1985 as part of USA Cartoon Express which is the last time any of the original 13 episodes were shown on television. This is one of the very few Hanna-Barbera series that has yet to be seen on either Cartoon Network or Boomerang; however, one of the episodes, \"The Cordillera Volcano\", was available for a limited time on WB's Hanna-Barbera online stream.\n\nIn January 2007, Dynamite Entertainment launched a comic book, with plot by Frank Cho and script by Doug Murray, called \"Jungle Girl\", featuring a blond female character called Jana. She is a Tarzan-esque heroine that lives in some kind of \"Lost World\", a jungle inhabited by strange creatures including dinosaurs and cavemen. While bearing the same name and taking place in a jungle setting, the Cho/Murray comic character is not really connected with the TV series.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247422", "title": "Truffade", "text": "Truffade\n\nTruffade is a rural dish traditionally associated with Auvergne in France. It is a sort of thick pancake made with thinly sliced potatoes that are slowly cooked in goose fat until tender, then mixed with thin strips of tome fraîche (which is very different from actual tomme cheese: the recipe will fail if tomme cheese is used, since that melts in a very different way). This mixture is stirred until it sticks together in a sort of thick pastry, which is sometimes decorated with fresh parsley and may be served with a simple green salad.\n\nSometimes the truffade is flipped over to brown the other side, or lardons are added to it.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247426", "title": "Koszyce", "text": "Koszyce\n\nKoszyce may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2247439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247439", "title": "Drugstore (band)", "text": "Drugstore (band)\n\nDrugstore are a London-based alternative and dream pop band, led by Brazilian singer-songwriter and bassist Isabel Monteiro (born 9 September 1965, São Paulo, Brazil), formed with Dave Hunter (later replaced by Daron Robinson) on guitar and Mike Chylinski on drums.\n\nThe band's name is taken from the 1989 Gus Van Sant film \"Drugstore Cowboy\".\n\nThe band was formed via a flat-share in East London, when Monteiro and American drummer Mike Chylinski met. They were joined by guitarist Dave Hunter and soon released their debut single, \"Alive\", on their own label Honey Records in 1993. The following year Hunter was replaced by Daron Robinson, and after only a handful of gigs, the band signed a major record deal with Go! Discs. Their debut album \"Drugstore\" was released on 27 March 1995 and it reached number 31 in the UK Albums Chart. The following three years were spent touring with Radiohead, Tindersticks, Jeff Buckley and The Jesus and Mary Chain, and playing at festivals such as Reading and Glastonbury\n\nFollowing the sale of Go! Discs to PolyGram, the band signed to Roadrunner Records and began work on their second album, \"White Magic for Lovers\", which was recorded at El Cortijo, in Spain, the music studio run by Trevor Morais, Björk's drummer. The album was released on 9 June 1998, peaking in the UK Chart at No. 45, and also landing the band their first top 20 hit single with \"El President\", a duet with Thom Yorke, a tribute to former Chilean president Salvador Allende, who was ousted in a 1973 coup d'état.\n\nIn 2000, the band signed to Global Warming Records and recorded their third album, \"Songs for the Jet Set\", at Battery Studios in London. The track \"Baby, Don't Hurt Yourself\" featured Lambchop's Paul Niehauss on pedal-steel. Whilst promoting the album, Monteiro decided to 'walk away from it all', and the band went into an eight-year hiatus. \"Drugstore Collector Number One\", a compilation of b-sides and outtakes, intended initially as a fan-only recording, was subsequently released commercially by the label in 2002.\n\nIn September 2009, the band reappeared with a reunion gig at Dingwalls, London. Early in 2010, Monteiro announced a revamped line-up, and performed at the Institute of Contemporary Arts (ICA) in London, on 5 May 2010. The following summer the band performed at Glastonbury Festival, for the charity 'Attitude is Everything', and at the Secret Garden Party Festival in Huntingdon.\n\nIn October 2010, Drugstore signed a one-off recording contract with the London-based indie label Rocket Girl, and in 2011 the band's fourth album, \"Anatomy\", was released. The BBC said \"The odds would have been long that, 18 years after their formation, they would reappear with some of their strongest material. Drugstore have been both placed at the dreamier end of the indie spectrum and compared with Leonard Cohen. Anatomy shows that there's more of an overlap there than one might have imagined\".\n\nIn 2012 the band performed outside London for the first time in over a decade, with shows at the Trades Club, in Hebden Bridge, and at the Norwich Arts Centre, in Norwich\n\nThe band returned in 2013 with a sold-out gig on 18 January at St Pancras Old Church.\n\nTo commemorate their 20th anniversary in September 2013 the band released \"The Best of Drugstore\" via Cherry Red Records, a compilation of tracks spanning the band's career with a selection of songs from their previous four albums. The album was launched with a sold-out show at London's Soho nightclub Madame Jojo's.\n\nIn early 2015, Isabel Monteiro relocated to her hometown of São Paulo, Brazil, and with the help of local musicians, will be performing a string of selected dates, with the 1st show on \"Vila Madalena\" 's bohemian venue Casa do Mancha.\n\nDrugstore's music has been featured on four film soundtracks. \"Superglider\", from the album \"Drugstore\", is used on \"All Over Me\", and \"House of America\", both released in 1997. \"Fader\", also from \"Drugstore\", is featured on the credits of the 2000 film \"Cherry Falls\".\n\n\"Old Shoes\", originally written and performed by Tom Waits from the album \"\", is used in the 2004 film \"East of Sunset\". The band's music was also featured throughout the BBC series \"This Life\", whose music producer was Ricky Gervais, and more recently on the Channel 4 TV series \"Teachers\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2247446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247446", "title": "Zemlyanka", "text": "Zemlyanka\n\nZemlyanka (Russian or , ) is an Eastern Slavic name for a dugout or \"earth-house\" which was used to provide shelter for humans or domestic animals. Based on a hole or depression dug into the ground, these structures are one of the most ancient types of housing known. Zemlyankas can be partially or fully recessed into the earth, with a flat roof covered with branches or sod, or dug into a hillside. The use of natural earth for insulation and protection for underground living has evolved into the \"earth shelter\" technology used today in architecture.\n\nIn World War II, partisans, or armed resistance fighters in Eastern Europe sometimes lived in zemlyankas which were used as underground bunkers to provide shelter and a hiding place from enemies. Notably they were used by members of the famous \"Bielski partisans\" in modern-day Belarus. In Poland they were called \"ziemianki\".\n\n\"Zemlyanka\" was the name of an Eastern Front (World War II) song written by A. Surkov (lyrics) and K. Listov (music) in 1941 during the Battle of Moscow. The use of zemlyankas by soldiers is mentioned in the song. However, due to its pessimism, the song was considered to be unpatriotic by the Soviet government at the time.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247453", "title": "After the War (Gary Moore album)", "text": "After the War (Gary Moore album)\n\nAfter the War is the seventh solo studio album by Irish guitarist Gary Moore, released in 1989.\n\nLike its predecessor \"Wild Frontier\", \"After the War\" contains elements of Celtic music. The instrumental \"Dunluce\" is named after Dunluce Castle in Northern Ireland.\n\nOn \"Led Clones\", Ozzy Osbourne – with whom Moore had worked before the singer united with Randy Rhoads – shares lead vocals. The song pokes fun at bands such as Kingdom Come, who were popular at the time and based on a Led Zeppelin-type sound and image. \"That song was great fun,\" Ozzy recalled, \"and it was an honour to record with Gary.\" The Sisters of Mercy frontman Andrew Eldritch provides backing vocals on the songs \"After the War\", \"Speak for Yourself\" and \"Blood of Emeralds\". Moore again pays tribute to the memory of his long-time friend and colleague Phil Lynott with the song \"Blood of Emeralds\".\n\n\"After the War\" would be Moore's last foray into conventional hard rock, and his last rock album of any kind until 1997's \"Dark Days in Paradise\". Starting with his next album, \"Still Got the Blues\", he would primarily switch to playing blues.\n\nAlthough Cozy Powell played drums on the album, he was replaced by Chris Slade for the tour, as he was set to tour with Black Sabbath, in support of their album, Headless Cross, which he also played drums on the album.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247458", "title": "Hunter's Handbook TV", "text": "Hunter's Handbook TV\n\nHunter's Handbook TV is an extension of \"Hunter’s Handbook\", the award-winning, official student publication of the International Hunter Education Association. Each HHTV episode invites experts in the hunting and shooting sports to the workshop to teach and inform viewers on becoming better hunters.\n\nEach show gives detailed instruction on two different subjects, from choosing the right rifle or shotgun; handgun hunting; navigation; survival and many other disciplines. The show is a combination of education and fast-paced hunting and shooting scenes that illustrate how much fun the sport can be. In addition, each episode concludes with the “Safety Tip of the Week,” presented by some of the foremost hunting education experts in America.\n\nThe show is owned by John Gallaspy.\n"}
{"id": "2247474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247474", "title": "Chinami Tokunaga", "text": "Chinami Tokunaga\n\nTokunaga was born in Kanagawa, Japan. In 2002, she passed the Hello! Project Kids audition and became a member of Hello! Project.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247485", "title": "Trimipramine", "text": "Trimipramine\n\nTrimipramine, sold under the brand name Surmontil among others, is a tricyclic antidepressant (TCA) which is used to treat depression. It has also been used for its sedative, anxiolytic, and weak antipsychotic effects in the treatment of insomnia, anxiety disorders, and psychosis, respectively. The drug is described as an atypical or \"second-generation\" TCA because, unlike other TCAs, it seems to be a fairly weak monoamine reuptake inhibitor. Similarly to other TCAs however, trimipramine does have antihistamine, antiserotonergic, antiadrenergic, antidopaminergic, and anticholinergic activities.\n\nTrimipramine's primary use in medicine is in the treatment of major depressive disorder, especially where sedation is helpful due to its prominent sedative effects. The drug is also an effective anxiolytic, and can be used in the treatment of anxiety. In addition to depression and anxiety, trimipramine is effective in the treatment of insomnia, and unlike most other hypnotics, does not alter the normal sleep architecture. In particular, it does not suppress REM sleep, and dreams are said to \"brighten\" during treatment. Trimipramine also has some weak antipsychotic effects with a profile of activity described as similar to that of clozapine, and may be useful in the treatment of psychotic symptoms such as in delusional depression or schizophrenia.\n\nThe effective dosage of trimipramine in depression is 150 to 300 mg/day.\n\nContraindications include:\n\n\nThe side effects of trimipramine have been said to be similar to those of other tertiary amine TCAs, with a preponderance of anticholinergic and sedative effects. However, trimipramine has also been said to be associated with a different side effect profile compared to other TCAs and in general with fewer side effects, chiefly due to its lack of norepinephrine reuptake inhibition and relatively lower anticholinergic effects (although it is still a potent anticholinergic). Somnolence is the most common side effect of the drug. Dry mouth is the most common anticholinergic side effect, but others like constipation, urinary retention, and blurred vision are also present.\n\nIt is described as being associated with minimal or no orthostatic hypotension, at least in comparison to clomipramine, in spite of its potent and comparable activity as an alpha-1 blocker. However, it has also been said to have a rate of orthostatic hypotension similar to that of other TCAs. Trimipramine is said to be less epileptogenic than other TCAs, although seizures have still been reported in association with it. It is also less cardiotoxic than other TCAs and cardiotoxicity is said to be minimal, with a \"very favorable profile\".\n\nCommon adverse effects include:\nAdverse effects with an unknown incidence includes:\n\n\nRare adverse effects include:\n\n\nCompared to other TCAs, trimipramine is relatively safe in overdose, although it is more dangerous than the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin–norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) but less dangerous than bupropion in cases of overdose.\n\nTrimipramine should not be given with sympathomimetic agents such as epinephrine (adrenaline), ephedrine, isoprenaline, norepinephrine (noradrenaline), phenylephrine and phenylpropanolamine.\n\nBarbiturates may increase the rate of metabolism. Trimipramine should be administered with care in patients receiving therapy for hyperthyrodism.\n\nHeavy exposure to any tricyclic antidepressants was associated with an elevated rate ratio for breast cancer 11–15 years later. However, on tests done on Drosophila melanogaster, nongenotoxic TCAs (amitriptyline, maprotiline, nortriptyline, and protriptyline), and genotoxic TCAs (amoxapine, clomipramine, desipramine, doxepin, imipramine, and trimipramine) were identified.\n\nThe mechanism of action of trimipramine in terms of its antidepressant effects differs from that of other TCAs and is not fully clear. The mechanism of action of its anxiolytic effects is similarly unclear. Trimipramine is a very weak reuptake inhibitor of serotonin, norepinephrine, and dopamine (see below), and unlike most other TCAs, has been claimed to be devoid of clinically significant monoamine reuptake inhibition. The effects of the drug are thought to be mainly due to receptor antagonism as follows:\n\n\nIn spite of its atypical nature and different profile of activity, trimipramine has been shown in head-to-head clinical studies to possess equivalent effectiveness to other antidepressants, including but not limited to other TCAs (e.g., amitriptyline, imipramine, doxepin, amineptine), tetracyclic antidepressants (TeCAs) (e.g., maprotiline), monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) (e.g., phenelzine, isocarboxazid), and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (e.g., fluoxetine). In addition, trimipramine has been found to possess greater anxiolytic effects than other TCAs such as amitriptyline and doxepin in head-to-head comparisons. Indeed, its prominent anxiolytic effects have been said to distinguish it from most other TCAs. The atypicality of trimipramine in relation to its lack of monoamine reuptake inhibition is described as challenging the monoamine hypothesis of depression.\n\nThe major metabolite of trimipramine, desmethyltrimipramine, is considered to possess pharmacological activity similar to that of other demethylated tertiary amine TCA variants.\n\nStudies have generally found only very weak inhibition of serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake with trimipramine, and the drug has been described by various authors as devoid of monoamine reuptake inhibition. Richelson & Pfenning (1984) found a relatively high K for the NET of 510 nM in rat brain synaptosomes and Tatsumi et al. (1997) found a relatively high K of 149 nM for the SERT in human HEK293 cells, but other authors and a more recent study with an improved design have not had the same findings. In the most recent study, by Haenisch et al. (2011), the researchers suggested that the discrepant findings from the Tatsumi et al. study were due to methodological differences, in particular the use of radioligand binding in isolated membranes (K) to study interactions as opposed to actual functional reuptake inhibition (IC).\n\nTrimipramine is extensively metabolized, so its metabolites may contribute to its pharmacology, including potentially to monoamine reuptake inhibition. In what was the only study to date to have assessed the activity profiles of the metabolites of trimipramine, Haenisch et al. (2011) assayed desmethyltrimipramine, 2-hydroxytrimipramine, and trimipramine-N-oxide in addition to trimipramine and found that these metabolites showed IC values for the SERT, NET, and DAT similar to those of trimipramine (see table to the right). Like other secondary amine TCAs, desmethyltrimipramine was slightly more potent than trimipramine in its norepinephrine reuptake inhibition but less potent in its inhibition of serotonin reuptake. However, desmethyltrimipramine still showed only very weak inhibition of the NET.\n\nTherapeutic concentrations of trimipramine are between 0.5 and 1.2 μM (150–350 ng/mL) and hence significant monoamine reuptake inhibition would not be expected with it or its metabolites. However, these concentrations are nearly 2-fold higher if the active metabolites of trimipramine are also considered, and studies of other TCAs have found that they cross the blood–brain barrier and accumulate in the brain to levels of up to 10-fold those in the periphery. As such, trimipramine and its metabolites might at least partially inhibit reuptake of serotonin and/or norepinephrine, though not of dopamine, at therapeutic concentrations, and this could be hypothesized to contribute at least in part to its antidepressant effects. This is relevant as Haenisch et al. has stated that these are the only actions known at present which could explain or at least contribute to the antidepressant effects of trimipramine. That said, blockade of the 5-HT, 5-HT, and α-adrenergic receptors, as with mirtazapine, has also been implicated in antidepressant effects.\n\nIn any case, there is also clinical and animal evidence that trimipramine does not inhibit the reuptake of monoamines. Unlike other TCAs, it does not downregulate β-adrenergic receptors, which is likely the reason that it does not cause orthostatic hypotension. It can be safely combined with MAOIs apparently without risk of serotonin syndrome or hypertensive crisis. Indeed, in rabbits, whereas hyperpyrexia (a symptom of serotonin syndrome) occurs with imipramine and an MAOI and to a lesser extent with amitriptyline and an MAOI, it does not occur at all with trimipramine and an MAOI, likely due to trimipramine's lack of serotonin reuptake inhibition.\n\nTrimipramine is a very potent antihistamine; it has the third highest affinity for the H receptor (K = 0.27 nM) after mirtazapine (K = 0.14 nM) and doxepin (K = 0.24 nM) among the TCAs and tetracyclic antidepressants (TeCAs). The TeCA mianserin (K = 0.40) and the TCA amitriptyline (K = 1.0) are also very potent H receptor antagonists, whereas other TCAs and TeCAs are less potent. These TCAs and TeCAs, including trimipramine, are far more potent than the standard antihistamine diphenhydramine (approximately 800 times for doxepin and 250 times for trimipramine), and are among the most potent antihistamines available.\n\nTrimipramine is also an antagonist of the H receptor with lower potency and has been found to be effective in the treatment of duodenal ulcers.\n\nBlockade of the H receptor is responsible for the sedative effects of trimipramine and other TCAs and their effectiveness in the treatment of insomnia.\n\nMost antidepressants suppress REM sleep, in parallel with their alleviation of depressive symptoms (although suppression of REM sleep is not required for antidepressant effects). This includes TCAs (e.g., amitriptyline, nortriptyline), TeCAs (e.g., mianserin, maprotiline), MAOIs (e.g., clorgiline, pargyline), and SSRIs (e.g., fluoxetine, zimelidine, indalpine). Trimipramine is unique in that it is an exception and produces antidepressant effects without compromising or otherwise affecting REM sleep. Even long-term treatment with trimipramine for up to 2 years has not been found to suppress REM sleep. In addition, trimipramine has been found to decrease nocturnal cortisol levels to normal and to normalize cortisol response in depressed patients; hence, it normalizes the hypothalamic–pituitary–adrenal axis, whereas imipramine and other antidepressants tend to increase nocturnal cortisol secretion.\n\nIn clinical studies, trimipramine has been found in doses of 50 to 200 mg/day to significantly increase sleep efficiency and total sleep time and to decrease waking time for up to 3 weeks in patients with insomnia. It also improved subjectively perceived sleep quality and well-being during daytime. Monitoring of patients upon discontinuation of trimipramine found that it did not cause rebound insomnia or worsening of sleep quality in subjective evaluations of sleep, although objective measurements found total sleep time below baseline in a subset of patients during trimipramine withdrawal.\n\nTrimipramine is a weak but significant antagonist of the dopamine D and D receptors, and also binds to the D receptor (K = 275 nM). Its affinities for various monoamine receptors including the D and 5-HT receptors closely resemble those of the atypical antipsychotic clozapine. In accordance, high doses of trimipramine have been found to have antipsychotic effects in schizophrenic patients, notably without causing extrapyramidal symptoms, and trimipramine has recently been found to be effective in reducing psychotic symptoms in patients with delusional depression. The lack of extrapyramidal symptoms with trimipramine may be related to its affinity for the D receptor, these both being properties it shares with clozapine. Unlike other TCAs, but reminiscent of antipsychotics, trimipramine has been found to markedly increase plasma prolactin levels (a marker of D receptor antagonism) at a dose of 75 mg/day and to increase nocturnal prolactin secretion at doses of 75 and 200 mg/day. These findings are suggestive of important antidopaminergic actions of trimipramine.\n\nUnlike various other TCAs, trimipramine shows marked antagonism of presynaptic dopamine autoreceptors, potentially resulting in increased dopaminergic neurotransmission. This effect has also been observed with low-potency tricyclic antipsychotics like thioridazine and chlorprothixene. Notably, these two antipsychotics have been claimed many times to also possess antidepressant effects. As such, blockade of inhibitory dopamine autoreceptors and hence facilitation of dopaminergic signaling could be involved in the antidepressant effects of trimipramine. However, other authors have attributed the claimed antidepressant effects of antipsychotics like the two previously mentioned to α-adrenergic receptor antagonism, although trimipramine specifically has only weak affinity for this receptor. Aside from antidepressant effects, low doses of antipsychotics have been found to increase REM sleep, and so dopamine autoreceptor antagonism could be involved in the unique effects of trimipramine in terms of REM sleep and sleep architecture.\n\nThe time to peak concentrations following a dose is 2 to 4 hours. The typical antidepressant therapeutic range of trimipramine concentrations is 150 to 300 ng/mL. The terminal half-life of trimipramine has been variously reported to be as little as 8 hours (in plasma) and as long as 24 hours. In any case, the terminal half-life of trimipramine is described as shorter than that of other TCAs, which makes it ideal for use in the treatment of insomnia.\n\nTrimipramine is a racemic compound with two enantiomers. CYP2C19 is responsible for the demethylation of (D)- and (L)-trimipramine to (D)- (L)-desmethyltrimipramine, respectively, and CYP2D6 is responsible for the 2-hydroxylation of (D)- and (L)-desmethyltrimipramine to (D)- and (L)-2-hydroxydesmethyltrimipramine, respectively. CYP2D6 also metabolizes (L)-trimipramine into (L)-2-hydroxytrimipramine.\n\nTrimipramine is a tricyclic compound, specifically a dibenzazepine, and possesses three rings fused together with a side chain attached in its chemical structure. Other dibenzazepine TCAs include imipramine, desipramine, and clomipramine. Trimipramine is a derivative of imipramine with a methyl group added to its side chain and is also known as 2'-methylimipramine or β-methylimipramine. The \"tri\"- prefix in its name may allude to the fact that its side chain features three methyl groups. Trimipramine is a tertiary amine TCA, with its side chain-demethylated metabolite desmethyltrimipramine being a secondary amine. Other tertiary amine TCAs include amitriptyline, imipramine, clomipramine, dosulepin (dothiepin), and doxepin. The chemical name of trimipramine is 3-(10,11-dihydro-5\"H\"-dibenzo[\"b\",\"f\"]azepin-5-yl)-\"N\",\"N\",2-trimethylpropan-1-amine and its free base form has a chemical formula of CHN with a molecular weight of 294.434 g/mol. The drug is used commercially as the maleate salt. The CAS Registry Number of the free base is 739-71-9 and of the maleate is 521-78-8.\n\nTrimipramine was developed by Rhône-Poulenc. It was patented in 1959 and first appeared in the literature in 1961. The drug was first introduced for medical use in 1966, in Europe. It was not introduced in the United States until later in 1979 or 1980.\n\n\"Trimipramine\" is the generic name of the drug and its , , , and , while \"trimipramine maleate\" is its , , , and . Its generic name in Latin is \"trimipraminum\", in German is \"trimipramin\", and in Spanish is \"trimipramina\".\n\nTrimipramine is marketed throughout the world mainly under the brand name Surmontil. Other notable brand names of trimipramine have included Herphonal, Rhotrimine, Sapilent, Stangyl, and Tydamine.\n\nTrimipramine is no longer marketed in Australia, though it was previously.\n"}
{"id": "2247499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247499", "title": "Tripoux", "text": "Tripoux\n\nTripoux (or \"Tripous\") is a dish made with small bundles of sheep tripe, usually stuffed with sheep's feet, sweetbreads and various herbs and garden vegetables. There are a number of variations on this dish, but they generally all involve savoury ingredients held together with sheep tripe and braised over low heat.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247502", "title": "Kokoro Library", "text": "Kokoro Library\n\nAn idealistic young soldier meets a nurse whose bibliophile young patient convinces him to bloom where he is planted as he pays forward his courage to the people with books from a nearby war-damaged library while helping to pick up the pieces. The collective goodwill visited unto him convinces the soldier to construct what is Kokoro Library as the \"place where miracles happen\" with the nurse as his spouse with whom he spawns three daughters: Iina, Aruto, and Kokoro.\n\nSeveral years later, Iina and Aruto have refined themselves into the librarians of Kokoro Library with such quality that their baby sister Kokoro wishes to emulate them. A sunny disposition along with a willingness to eschew the stereotypical professional relationship with her customers are among Kokoro's best assets; still, the road to being the consummate librarian is neither straight nor smooth in fair weather. Kokoro Library's seclusion within the mountains away from the city deters all but the most determined and adventurous users—an attribute that has gotten it in hot water on more than one occasion along with the public grant money necessary for its operation. In spite of the odds against her, Kokoro resolves herself for a euphoric epilogue.\n\nThe two characters listed below are deceased for most of the series.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Kokoro Library\"'s anime adaptation was met to generally positive reviews. The first DVD volume was reviewed by Paul Grisham of Mania.com, where he praised the colors used, saying, \"Colors are rich and warm and convey the fairy tale setting of the Kokoro Library and the nearby town effectively.\" Paul also commented on the audio, calling it \"warm and inviting without even the slightest hint of distortion.\" Jeremy A Beard from THEM Anime Reviews praised the \"general pleasant feeling and atmosphere\" of the small town depicted in the anime. Despite finding the \"overall \"Kokoro Library\" experience enjoyable\", Jeremy remarked that its \"accompanying relaxed pacing\" would turn viewers off.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247506", "title": "Royal Tournament", "text": "Royal Tournament\n\nThe Royal Tournament was the world's largest military tattoo and pageant, held by the British Armed Forces annually between 1880 and 1999. The venue was originally the Royal Agricultural Hall and latterly the Earls Court Exhibition Centre. In its later years it also acted as a fundraising event for leading forces charities, such as The Royal British Legion.\nThe Grand Military Tournament and Assault at Arms was held at the former Royal Agricultural Hall, in Islington from 21 to 26 June 1880. The Tournament was effectively a series of competitions contested by the officers and men of the regular and auxiliary units of the British Army. Although crowds didn’t flock to the Tournament in the first year, it was held again in 1881 and subsequent years.\n\nMore events to please audiences were added, including music from military bands, re-enactments, Musical Rides by the Cavalry and Musical Drives by the Artillery. Crowds began to flock to performances at the Agricultural hall; during the early 1900s the show outgrew its home and moved to the west London venue of Olympia. The Royal Navy and the Royal Air Force also participated. The show was renamed a number of times until it finally became the Royal Tournament.\n\nAfter the Second World War, the Tournament once again moved to a larger stage and opened its doors to the public at the Earls Court Exhibition Centre in 1950. With the exception of the war years, the Tournament was staged every summer from 1880 to 1999. The Royal Tournament had entered the history books as the First, Oldest and Biggest Military Tattoo in the World. Towards the end ticket sales were insufficient to cover costs; the 1998 Royal Tournament made a loss. On Monday 2 August 1999 the Royal Tournament closed for the final time to reduce military costs, following the 1998 Strategic Defence Review. \n\nOther military events such as Trooping the Colour, the Edinburgh Military Tattoo and the Royal International Air Tattoo remain an active part of British military pageantry, together with the various events organized by the Armed Forces and its three branches.\n\nIn June 2010, ABF - The Soldiers' Charity announced that a new event, to be called the \"British Military Tournament\", would be held over the weekend of 4–5 December 2010, bringing together the \"best elements of the Royal Tournament\", including the King's Troop, Royal Horse Artillery's Musical Drive, and the Royal Navy Field gun competition. The two themes of the event as announced were the 350th anniversary of the Household Cavalry, and the 150th anniversary of both the Army Physical Training Corps and the cadet movement. Initially, only the Army was to participate (with Navy or RAF presence only in old staples such as the Field Gun competition). Press reports suggested that the event might have later been held annually, \"hosted\" by the different services in turn.\n\nThe British Military Tournament was held four times, the 2013 Tournament being the last.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247512", "title": "Westport Country Playhouse", "text": "Westport Country Playhouse\n\nWestport Country Playhouse, is a not-for-profit regional theater in Westport, Connecticut.\nIt was founded in 1931 by Lawrence Langner, a New York theater producer. Langner remodeled an 1830s tannery with a Broadway-quality stage.\nThe building that now houses Westport Country Playhouse was originally constructed in 1835 as a tannery by R&H Haight, owned by Henry Haight. Charles H. Kemper acquired the tannery from Henry Haight's widow in 1866 and subsequently renamed the business C.H. Kemper Co.\nIn 1930, the former tannery, which had been unused since the 1920s, was purchased for $14,000 by Lawrence Langner. Cleon Throckmorten, a Broadway designer, was commissioned to renovate the interior of the building.\nOn June 29, 1931, the curtain went up on the first production at the Westport Country Playhouse. The Playhouse quickly became an established stop on the New England \"straw hat circuit\" of summer stock theaters.\n\nIn the 1940s, the Westport Country Playhouse began its apprentice program for young theater professionals. Over the years, Westport Country Playhouse apprentices have included composer/lyricist Stephen Sondheim, screenwriter Frank Perry, television host Sally Jesse Raphael, composer Mary Rodgers, actor Cary Elwes, and actress Tammy Grimes. The educational apprenticeship programs are still running.\nThe Westport Country Playhouse closed due to World War II from 1942 to 1945. In the late 1940s and 1950s, the Westport Country Playhouse's successes included world premieres of William Inge's \"Come Back, Little Sheba\" and Horton Foote's \"The Trip to Bountiful\", both of which went on to Broadway.\nSince the Langners stepped down in 1959, the administration has included James B. McKenzie from 1959 to 2000 and actress Joanne Woodward, Paul Newman's wife, who took over as artistic director in 2000. Newman remained a part-owner of a restaurant next to the theatre until his death in 2008. The Playhouse became a non-profit in 1973.\n\nIn 2002 the Westport Country Playhouse transferred its first production to Broadway after more than 35 years.\nRecently the theatre saw the world premiere of \"Thurgood\" and a revival of Thornton Wilder's \"Our Town\" with Paul Newman. Currently under the artistic direction of Mark Lamos, the Playhouse produces new and classic plays for the public.\nAlison Harris, executive director since 2000, announced in 2005 that she would not be renewing her contract when it expired in 2006. In December 2006, Jodi Schoenbrun Carter was named managing director. Artistic directors Joanne Woodward and Anne Keefe returned to the Westport Country Playhouse on January 2, 2008 to provide interim artistic leadership for the 2008 season. Ms. Woodward, acclaimed actress and director as well as a long-time resident of Westport, was the Westport Country Playhouse’s artistic director from 2000 to 2005, with Ms. Keefe as her associate. For the past two years, Ms. Woodward served as Westport Country Playhouse artistic director emeritus as well as a member of the board of trustees. Ms. Keefe has also been a member of the board since her departure as associate artistic director in 2006. Currently under the artistic direction of Mark Lamos the Playhouse produces new and classic plays for the public.\nThe Westport Country Playhouse has provided a stage for many new playwrights over the years. David Wiltse is the current playwright in residence, writing one play for the Westport Country Playhouse to produce each year.\n\nThe Campaign for a New Era was the fundraising effort by the Westport Country Playhouse to help pay for its $30.6 million, 18-month renovation from 2003 to 2005. Donations of more than $1,000 are recognized within the Westport Country Playhouse's lobby and production programs. Some of the largest donations came from the State of Connecticut, the Devlin Foundation, the Lucille Lortel Foundation, Elisabeth & Stanley Morten, and Joanne Woodward & Paul Newman.\nWoodward and executive director Alison Harris led a $30.6 million renovation, transforming the old barn into a modern, year-round theatre facility. The renovated theatre reopened in 2005. At Woodward's suggestion, a piece of the original stage floor was placed at the dressing room entrance to give a little extra luck to the actors. Woodward stepped down from her job in January 2006, and was followed by actor, opera and theatre director, and playwright Tazewell Thompson. However, Woodward and Newman have both continued to contribute to the Westport Country Playhouse's \"Campaign for a New Era.\"\n\nThe Westport Country Playhouse currently has a total of 578 seats. This is the seating capacity before the renovation. The seats are now individual and cushioned, as opposed to the former wooden pews, while retaining the historic look of the former pews. Further, fewer of the current seats are considered \"limited view\" since the renovation.\nThe 578 seats are distributed as follows:\nSeveral seats in both the orchestra and mezzanine can be removed or modified to be wheelchair accessible.\n\nOf the hundreds of interns and apprentices who have passed through the Playhouse's educational programs, several have gone on to attain notoriety. Some graduates include Stephen Sondheim, Frank Perry, Tammy Grimes, Sally Jessy Raphael, Mary Rodgers, and Christina Crawford. A large number of Playhouse interns and apprentices have made careers in the theatre or in related activities.\n\nThe program is named in honor of Joanne Woodward, co-artistic director. The Westport Country Playhouse provides summer and school year internships to students ages 19 and older from around the country.\n\nThe interns are entrusted with considerable responsibilities and treated as staff members while they engage in an intensive learning experience. Each intern is hired for a specific position, but are expected to work as a team and pitch in where necessary, including, but not limited to, running crew, ushering, concessions and parking.\n\nApplicants must be serious minded, highly motivated and able to commit a minimum of twelve weeks, with long working hours as many as 7 days a week. Applicants should be college students, graduate students or recent graduates, with basic training and experience in theatre already completed, prepared to take the next step towards a professional theatre career.\n\nMany notable performers have enhanced the Westport Country Playhouse stage from 1930 to the present, including such well-known names as Billie Burke, Liza Minnelli, Eartha Kitt, Gene Wilder, Paul Newman, James Earl Jones, Jane Curtin, Ruth Gordon, Kitty Carlisle, Henry Fonda, Hume Cronyn, Jessica Tandy, Olivia de Havilland, Eva Gabor, Johanna Day, Michael Allinson, and Jane Fonda. \n\nThe Westport Country Playhouse has a counterweight fly system currently employing 22 battens, with space for future installations. The height from the stage to the grid is 40 feet (12.19m), with an effective fly range from 3 feet 10 inches (1.17m) to 38 feet (11.58m). Each arbor is 6 feet tall with a capacity for 1200 pounds (544 kg). The locking rail is on the stage right wall, and the loading bridge is 32 feet 3 inches (9.83m) above the stage floor.\nAlthough the fly system and grid are designed for loads to be hung parallel to the proscenium, smaller loads can be hung perpendicular using cables independent of the actual arbor system. These have to be flown in and out manually from the grid, so perpendicularly hung loads are generally stationary during performances.\nLighting is controlled from a Strand 520 console in a control booth at the back of the house. For technical rehearsals, a control position can be set up in the center of the theatre.\nThe Westport Country Playhouse's stage lighting instruments include:\nColor scrollers, irises, top hats, and barn doors (all lighting instrument attachments) are also available. On-stage film and projection equipment are only available through special arrangement.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247515", "title": "Northampton and Lamport Railway", "text": "Northampton and Lamport Railway\n\nThe Northampton & Lamport Railway is a standard gauge heritage railway in Northamptonshire, England. It is based at Pitsford and Brampton station, near the villages of Pitsford and Chapel Brampton, roughly north of Northampton.\n\nThe line between Northampton and Market Harborough was finally closed (by British Rail) on 16 August 1981, the intermediate stations on the route having been closed for many years.\n\nIn 1984 (just 3 years after the line's closure) a group was formed by Michael William Papworth (of Northampton) with the intention of re-opening a section of the line as a heritage railway. The site opened to the public shortly afterwards. Following the granting of a Light Railway Order, the line carried its first fare-paying passengers in November 1995. The official Grand Opening Ceremony took place (just 4 months later) on 31 March 1996.\n\nCurrently, passenger trains operate on a section of line approximately in length, departing from and arriving at the only station, Pitsford and Brampton. \n\nHowever, As of November 2013, An extension south had currently been under construction which adds another of running line, with around 90% of track-relaying completed around Spring 2012. Once complete it will include a station with sidings and run-round loop at the former Boughton Crossing on the A5199 at the Northamptonshire village of Boughton.\n\nA northern extension of the NLR to Spratton currently remains within the planning stage. The previous extension heading north, opened after several years' work and around £50,000 was spent on repairs to Bridge 13, (the same amount (or more) will be required for Bridge 14, when the NLR turns its intention northwards).\n\nThe signalling system, with two working signal boxes (and a third under construction), makes it one of the most comprehensive and detailed on any heritage railway of its size, within Preservation. The Booking Office at Pitsford and Brampton station was built using the disused Lamport signal box, originally located around away on/up the same line. It had since been converted in such a way that it can be easily converted back into a signal box if whenever required in the future. \n\nA third signal box has been installed at the Boughton Terminus; the former Betley Road signal box from Crewe is being used following its restoration.\n\nThe Brampton Valley Way is a \"linear park\" offering a traffic-free route for walkers, cyclists and pedestrians, and which runs alongside the railway, separated by a stout safety fence. Access is also available to horse riders on other sections away from the railway.\n\nThe railway is open for viewing from 10:00 to 17:00 on Sundays. Train rides are available on Sundays from March to October, diesel hauled with steam-hauled trains for special events (subject to availability). Open from March to October and throughout December for Santa's visit.\n\nA number of special events take place throughout the year, the popular Santa Specials run throughout the month of December.\n\nOn 18 July 2007 the \"Railway at War\" weekend, an event held at the railway every September, was named \"Best Event\" in the 2007 Northamptonshire Renaissance Heritage Awards.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247519", "title": "Carroll Vincent Newsom", "text": "Carroll Vincent Newsom\n\nCarroll Vincent Newsom (1904–1990) was an American educator who served as the eleventh NYU President and President of Prentice Hall.\n\nNewsom was born February 23, 1904 in Buckley, Illinois. He received a B.A. from the College of Emporia in 1924, a M.A. from the University of Michigan in 1927 and a Doctor of Philosophy in 1931.\n\nHe commenced his academic career in 1924 as a mathematics instructor at the College of Emporia. In 1927-1928 he taught at the University of Michigan and at the University of New Mexico in 1928-1929. He was appointed assistant professor in 1929, an associate professor in 1931, and professor in 1933, and served as Head of the Department from 1931-1944. He was Professor of Mathematics and Chairman of the Science Division at Oberlin College from 1944-1948.\n\nFrom 1948-1950, he was Assistant Commissioner for Higher Education, then Associate Commissioner for Higher and Professional Education, for the New York State. Newsom was appointed Executive Vice President in 1955 at New York University and served as 11th NYU President from 1956-1962. He was President of Prentice Hall from 1964-1965 and Director of NBC from 1961-1971, serving as Vice President from 1966-1969. \nHe served on many other boards of directors and committees, listed below.\n\nNewsom married and had three children. His wife, Frances Jeanne Higley, died June 3, 1989 in Dublin, OH. Newsom died February 3, 1990 in Dublin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247531", "title": "Popular Republican Movement", "text": "Popular Republican Movement\n\nThe Popular Republican Movement (, MRP) was a Christian-democratic political party in France during the Fourth Republic. Its base was the Catholic vote and its leaders included Georges Bidault, Robert Schuman, Paul Coste-Floret, Pierre-Henri Teitgen and Pierre Pflimlin. It played a major role in forming governing coalitions, in emphasizing compromise and the middle ground, and in protecting against a return to extremism and political violence. It played an even more central role in foreign policy, having charge of the Foreign Office for ten years and launching plans for the creation of the European Coal and Steel Community. which grew into the European Union. Its voter base gradually dwindled in the 1950s and it had little power by 1954.\n\nIn the late 19th century secular forces sought to radically reduce the power of the Catholic Church in France, especially regarding schools. The Catholic bishops mistrusted the Republic and the ideas of the French Revolution, as well as the idea of popular sovereignty, which questioned the superiority of the spiritual power over the temporal. For this reason, it supported all the conservative governments of the 19th century, notably MacMahon and his policy of \"moral order\".\n\nIn 1892, in his encyclical \"Au Milieu Des Sollicitudes\", Pope Leo XIII advised the French Catholics to rally to the Republic. The previous year, another encyclical, \"Rerum novarum\" had denounced both capitalistic society and socialist ideology, and advocated the creation of Catholic popular organisations. In 1894, students founded \"Le Sillon\" (The Furrow). Its leader, Marc Sangnier, campaigned for spiritual values, democracy and social reforms. It represented the progressive wing of French Catholicism. Radical forces triumphed in 1905 and disestablished the Catholic Church and seized its properties. The very conservative Pope Pius X told the bishops to distance themselves from the state. Better relations were restored in the 1920s, but the parties on the left (Radical, Socialist and Communist) were strongly anticlerical.\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century, many organisations appeared: the Christian Workers Youth, the Christian Agricultural Youth, and the French Confederation of Christian Workers. In 1924, the Popular Democratic Party (PDP) was founded, but it remained a small centre-right party. However, more liberal Christian Democratic ideas arose in intellectual circles. Emmanuel Mounier founded the review \"Esprit\" (mind or spirit) which denounced fascism and passivity of the Western democracies. In the paper \"L'Aube\" (The Dawn), Francisque Gay and Georges Bidault shared similar theses. These circles participated actively in the anti-Nazi underground Resistance during the Second World War.\n\nIn 1944, some prominent French politicians wanted to rally all the non-Communist Resistance behind Charles De Gaulle. This project failed. The French Section of the Workers International (SFIO) was refounded and people from the Christian resistance movement founded the Popular Republican Movement. It claimed its loyalty to de Gaulle, who led the provisional government composed of Communists, Socialists and Christian democrats. At the November 1945 legislative election, the MRP was second (23.9%) after the French Communist Party (PCF) but ahead the SFIO.\n\nThe MRP benefited from the absence of real right-wing challengers to rally the conservative electorate. Indeed, among the three largest parties, it was the only one that was not Marxist. Furthermore, it appeared the closest to de Gaulle. It supported the reforms decided by the provisional government and inspired by the programme of the National Council of Resistance written during the war: nationalisation of banks and industrial companies such as Renault, and the creation of a welfare state. Georges Bidault remarked that the MRP was governing \"in the centre with right-wing methods to attain left-wing ends\" or that it was \"pursuing left-wing policies with a right-wing electorate\" \"(une politique de gauche, avec un électorat de droite)\".\n\nNevertheless, the MRP disagreed with the institutional and constitutional ideas of De Gaulle, who advocated a strong executive power, not dependent on Parliament, acting in the national interest while particular interests would be represented by the parties in Parliament. Wanting to achieve the complete integration of Catholicism in the Republic, the MRP supported the principle of parliamentary democracy against De Gaulle.\n\nRelations with De Gaulle deteriorated. In January 1946, the president of the provisional government resigned in protest at the restoration of the \"parties regime\". The MRP ministers chose to stay in government. Nevertheless, the party called on voters to reject the proposed constitution in May 1946, fearing the election of a pro-Communist regime. After that, the MRP became the largest party in parliament after the June 1946 legislative election (28.2%) and Bidault took charge of the cabinet. In October 1946, the MRP, together with the SFIO and the PCF, presented a new proposed constitution. It was approved despite De Gaulle's call for a \"no\" vote. One year later, a Gaullist party was founded under the name of Rally of the French People (\"Rassemblement du peuple français\" or RPF).\n\nThe MRP became a mainstay of the Fourth Republic. It was allied with the Socialists and the Communists in the Three-parties alliance until spring 1947. Then, it joined the Third Force that brought together centre-left and centre-right parties against the Communists on the one hand and the Gaullists on the other hand. Two Christian Democrats led the cabinet: Georges Bidault (June–December 1946, October 1949-July 1950) and Robert Schuman (November 1947-July 1948, August–September 1948) who presented, as Foreign Minister, plans for what would become the European Community. Indeed, European unification was an important part of the MRP platform.\n\nIt is the only major French party to defend the functioning of the colonial system, including forced labour, in the post-war period.\n\nWith the creation of the Gaullist RPF and the reconstruction of the conservative right in the National Center of Independents and Peasants (\"Centre national des indépendants et paysans\", CNIP), the MRP faced challengers to represent the right-wing electorate. At the 1951 legislative election, it lost half of its 1946 voters (12.6%).\nFurthermore, due to its propensity for integrating conservative politicians sometimes compromised by their association with Vichy, it was sardonically nicknamed the \"Machine à Ramasser les Pétainistes\" (\"Machine for collecting Pétainists\").\n\nThe MRP also dominated French foreign and colonial policies during most of the later 1940s and 1950s. Along with the French Socialist Party, it was the most energetic supporter in the country of European integration. It was also a strong backer of NATO and of close alliance with the United States, making it the most \"Atlanticist\" of French political parties.\n\nIts leaders, especially Georges Bidault and Paul Coste-Floret (foreign and colonial ministers respectively in several French coalition governments) were primary architects of France's hard-line colonial policies that culminated in long insurgencies in Vietnam (1946-1954) and Algeria (1954-1962), as well as a series of smaller insurrections and political crises elsewhere in the French Empire. The MRP eventually divided over the Algerian question in the late 1950s (with Bidault being an avid supporter of the OAS).\n\nIn terms of voters, many on its left-wing joined the Socialists and many on its right wing left for the Moderates or Gaullists.\n\nAfter the 13 May 1958 crisis, the party supported De Gaulle's return and called for approval of the constitution of the Fifth Republic. It participated in the government of national unity behind De Gaulle, then broke with him in 1962 over his opposition to extending European economic integration into the realm of political integration.\n\nWhen De Gaulle proposed a referendum on presidential election by universal suffrage, the MRP took part in the \"coalition of the no\". De Gaulle dissolved the National Assembly and the MRP suffered a serious electoral defeat.\n\nIn 1963, Jean Lecanuet took the leadership in order to renew the party's image. He was a candidate at the 1965 presidential election and was third (15%) behind De Gaulle and Socialist François Mitterrand. Then he created the Democratic Centre by merging MRP members with the National Center of Independents and Peasants (CNIP). The MRP itself disbanded in 1967, while some historical personalities of the party (such as Maurice Schumann) joined the Gaullist party Union of Democrats for the Fifth Republic.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247534", "title": "Maloja Pass", "text": "Maloja Pass\n\nMaloja Pass (Italian: \"Passo del Maloja\", German: \"Malojapass\") (1815m a.s.l.) is a high mountain pass in the Swiss Alps in the canton of Graubünden, linking the Engadine with the Val Bregaglia, still in Switzerland and Chiavenna in Italy. It marks the divide between the Danube and Po watersheds. Lägh da Bitabergh is near the pass.\n\nThe road from Chiavenna to Silvaplana with distances and elevation:\n\nThe Maloja Pass is open in winter. However, after heavy snowfalls the road may be closed for a couple of hours or for an entire day. Even if open, the road might be covered with snow making snow/winter tires, or chains, a necessity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247539", "title": "Jo Mango", "text": "Jo Mango\n\nJo Mango is a British alternative folk and acoustic band from Glasgow. Jo Mango is also the adopted name of the lead singer and primary songwriter of the group.\n\n\nJo has also appeared as a solo artist playing shows across the globe in countries such as America, Australia and Japan. Her tour of America began with a session on Nic Harcourt's show \"Morning Becomes Eclectic\" on Santa Monica's KCRW radio station and a performance at South By South West (SXSW) in Austin, Texas. \"The Scotland Herald\" describes Jo Mango's recent EP \"When We Lived in The Crook of a Tree\" as \"[a voice] so hushed and precise, that it sounds as if it were recorded inside your own head\" (2013).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247547", "title": "Labcabincalifornia", "text": "Labcabincalifornia\n\nLabcabincalifornia is the second album by The Pharcyde, released in 1995, three years after their debut \"Bizarre Ride II the Pharcyde\". The album's production was handled by The Pharcyde themselves and Jay Dee, with additional help from Diamond D and M-Walk.\nThe first single was \"Drop\". The video for \"Drop\" was directed by Spike Jonze, and used footage of the group performing the song backwards, replayed backwards, giving it a surreal quality. The backwards theme of the video is also a reference to the song itself, which features a backwards sample. \"Drop\" was a hit, as was the follow-up single \"Runnin',\" which peaked at #55 on the Billboard Hot 100.\nOverall, this album is a more mellow and introspective affair than their debut and features more somber themes such as dealing with fame and success, drug abuse, and broken down relationships.\nAlbum sales compared to \"Bizarre Ride\" did not fare as well; the group was not able to reach Gold status. After \"Labcabincalifornia\" was released, Fatlip left the group to concentrate on his solo career.\n\nInformation is based on the album’s Liner Notes\n\n\n\nUnless otherwise indicated, Information is based on the album’s Liner Notes\n"}
{"id": "2247551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247551", "title": "Cowasji Jehangir Hall", "text": "Cowasji Jehangir Hall\n\nThe Cowasji Jehangir Hall is a museum of modern art and was part of the Institute of Science prior to 1996. The hall was built in 1911 by George Wittet and funded by Cowasji Jehangir. It is located in Colaba area of Mumbai, India.\n\nIn 1996, the National Gallery of Modern Art, Mumbai was set up in the building. \n\n"}
{"id": "2247560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247560", "title": "Chances Are (song)", "text": "Chances Are (song)\n\n\"Chances Are\" is a popular song with music by Robert Allen and lyrics by Al Stillman. It was published in 1957. The song was one of many compositions by the Stillman-Allen team that were chart hits in the 1950s. It was listed on \"Billboard\"s \"Most Played by Jockeys\" survey for Johnny Mathis, charting in 1957, and was inducted in the Grammy Hall of Fame Award in 1998. The song reached No. 4 on \"Billboard\"s Best Sellers in Stores survey, along with its flip \"The Twelfth of Never\", which Mathis initially disliked. It became a gold record. The song was also included on the 1958 Mathis compilation \"Johnny's Greatest Hits\".\n\nMathis re-recorded the song in 1996 as a duet with Liza Minnelli for her album \"Gently\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2247564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247564", "title": "1977 in art", "text": "1977 in art\n\nThe year 1977 in art involved some significant events and new works.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247567", "title": "Cassidy O'Reilly", "text": "Cassidy O'Reilly\n\nCassidy Riley (born November 21, 1976), also known as Kassidy James, is an American professional wrestler. He is best known for his work with Total Nonstop Action Wrestling and WWE.\n\nO'Reilly became interested in wrestling at the age of six after seeing a gory picture of Abdullah the Butcher in an issue of Pro Wrestling Illustrated, and at the age of eight he received a pair of wrestling tights from his mother and aunt as a Christmas present.\n\nO'Reilly trained under Lolly Dude, a promoter in Dallas, for eight months, receiving supplemental training from Terry Taylor and Tommy Rogers, who were working for Dude at the time. He debuted in 1995 under his own name, facing Cedric Crain in Brighton, Tennessee. He then began wrestling on the Southern independent circuit.\n\nO'Reilly began competing for the NWA Mississippi promotion, and won the vacant NWA Mississippi Heavyweight Championship (also designated the NWA Southern Television Championship) on June 5, 1999 in Grenada, eliminating the penultimate survivor, Big Don Brodie, to win a battle royal. He held the title for over four months before losing to Ricky Murdock on November 6 in Charleston.\n\nDuring his reign as NWA Mississippi Heavyweight Champion, O'Reilly worked for the Nashville-based \"Music City Wrestling\" promotion. He formed a tag team with Air Paris, and on August 14 they defeated Ashley Hudson and Corey Williams in a match for the vacant MCW Tag Team Championships (also designated the NWA North American Tag Team Championships). They held the titles until December 25, when they lost to Mike Rapada and The Colorado Kid. The team of O'Reilly and Paris was split when Paris was signed by World Championship Wrestling.\n\nO'Reilly began working for Bert Prentice's \"USA Championship Wrestling\" promotion, and in 2000 WCW began a talent exchange programme with Prentice which saw WCW wrestlers train in Nashville while Prentice's employees would work for WCW. O'Reilly worked for WCW for a year and a half, until the promotion was bought by the WWF in March 2001. Along with wrestlers such as James Storm and Chris Harris, O'Reilly was part of \"R & B Security\", a group of jobbers who were billed as the bodyguards of Vince Russo and Eric Bischoff. They would be involved in one-sided confrontations with bigger stars on \"Nitro\" and \"Thunder\", and would wrestle one another on \"Worldwide\" and \"Saturday Night\". O'Reilly also made an appearance on the big stage during the opening segment of the Mike Awesome and DDP match at the WCW Great American Bash 2000 PPV as a medic in the back of the ambulance.\n\nO'Reilly formed a new tag team with Chase Stevens known as \"The Hotshots\". The Hotshots worked in Nashville before appearing with the fledgling NWA:TNA promotion in July 2002, when they were signed to full-time contracts. Following a feud with America's Most Wanted, the team split in October 2002 when O'Reilly left TNA due to travel problems, returning to Louisiana and taking a hiatus from wrestling.\nO'Reilly returned to TNA in 2004 as \"Cassidy Riley\", with his earlier appearances never acknowledged by the promotion. He was booked as a fan favorite underdog who regularly lost to physically more powerful villains. Riley faced Raven on the January 21, 2005 episode of \"TNA Impact!\", and was promptly squashed, with Raven passing on several chances to pin him before finally pinning Riley and then casually breaking two of his fingers after the match. Riley was saved by Dustin Rhodes, who he subsequently developed an onscreen friendship with. Riley teamed with Rhodes on several occasions until Rhodes left the company, then resumed his singles career.\n\nOn July 8, 2005, Riley was squashed by the number one contender to the NWA World Heavyweight Championship, Abyss. After Abyss continued to attack O'Reilly after pinning him, Raven (the reigning champion) ran to ringside and attacked Abyss, but was overpowered. The following week, Riley thanked Raven and told him that he would be there if Raven needed him. On July 17 at TNA No Surrender 2005, Riley was seen in the audience dressed in Raven's signature \"grunge\" style. His continued emulation of Raven's dress style and mannerisms made him a target for Raven's enemies, Jeff Jarrett and Rhino, who attacked him on the July 29 episode of \"Impact!\". Raven interrupted the proceedings, however, and spared Riley a piledriver at the hands of Rhino.\n\nAt TNA Sacrifice 2005 on August 14, Riley interfered in the main event tag team match, preventing Jeff Jarrett from hitting Raven with a guitar. At Unbreakable on September 11, he faced Jerrelle Clark in a free-for-all match which ended in an abrupt draw when Monty Brown entered the ring and attacked both men. Later that night, Riley attempted to help Raven during his NWA World Heavyweight Championship title match with Rhino, but inadvertently distracted the referee just as Raven went for a pinfall.\n\nIn the weeks prior to Bound for Glory pay-per-view, Raven appeared to accept Riley as his follower. On the Saturday prior to Bound For Glory, Riley appeared on \"Impact!\" and stated that Raven would be attending the event. The following evening, he accompanied Raven to the ring for his confrontation with Rhino, and was Gored twice by Rhino as security attempted to separate Raven and Rhino.\n\nOn the December 4 episode of \"Impact!\" Raven was booked in a three-on-one handicap \"House of Fun\" match against all three members of The Diamonds in the Rough - Simon Diamond, David Young, and Elix Skipper. This was part of Larry Zbyszko's personal crusade to convince Raven to sign his release from TNA. Raven was heavily beaten for several minutes before Riley came to his aid, and held off the Diamonds in the Rough for a few moments. Eventually, the numbers overwhelmed him, but he had given Raven an opening that enabled him to take control of the match momentarily. Ultimately, however, Raven was defeated. Riley continued to aid Raven until Zbyszko finally managed to oust him from the promotion at TNA Final Resolution 2006 on January 15. Riley came to the ring and remonstrated with Zbyszko until Raven signalled for him to drop the issue and left the building.\n\nO'Reilly made his first appearance on WWE television as a jobber on the ECW brand where, as Cassidy Riley, he was defeated by fellow TNA alumnus Marcus Cor Von (formerly Monty Brown) on January 16, 2007. Two nights later, it was announced that he had signed a developmental contract with WWE and would be reporting to Ohio Valley Wrestling. On March 20, 2007, O'Reilly was on ECW again, he lost to Snitsky. O'Reilly then had a gimmick change to Kassidy James, the little brother of OVW/WWE wrestler K.C. James. On June 29, 2007 The James Boys defeated the Major Brothers to re-capture the OVW Southern Tag Team Championships. They then lost the belts on August 1 to the team of T.J. Dalton and Jamin Olivencia. On August 24, they regained the titles, defeating Olivencia in a handicap match. After again losing the titles to Steve Lewington and Chet the Jet on September 5, they regained the titles for the fourth time three weeks later. He was released from the WWE along with five other developmental wrestlers on February 4, 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247569", "title": "Drill hall", "text": "Drill hall\n\nA drill hall is a place such as a building or a hangar where soldiers practise and perform military drill.\n\nIn the United Kingdom and Commonwealth, the term was used for the whole headquarters building of a military reserve unit, which usually incorporated such a hall. Many of these drill halls were built through public subscriptions in order to support the local Volunteer Force which was raised in the late 1850s. \n\nIn the United Kingdom, these were later renamed Territorial Army (TA) Centres and later Army Reserve Centres (ARC)s. As well as a drill hall itself, they now usually feature other facilities such as a gymnasium, motor transport department, lecture rooms, stores, an armoury, administrative offices and the Officer's, Warrant Officers and Senior NCOs, and Junior Ranks Messes. Some Officer Training Corps, Army Cadet Force and Air Training Corps units are also co-located on the site of modern Army Reserve Centres, for example Blackheath drill hall.\n\nOver 1,860 drill halls have been documented in England, with Historic England estimating that around 1,500 were extant in 2015. Fifteen purpose built drill halls are Grade II listed on the National Heritage List for England, dating from 1864 to 1907. The Grade II listed former Drill Hall on York Road, Great Yarmouth was built for the 2nd Volunteer Battalion Norfolk Regiment in 1867. Other drill halls were converted from extant buildings, including the now demolished St Nicholas Drill Hall in King's Lynn in Norfolk. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247585", "title": "Richard Henry Pratt", "text": "Richard Henry Pratt\n\nBrigadier General Richard Henry Pratt (December 6, 1840 – March 15, 1924) was an American general who is best known as the founder and longtime superintendent of the influential Carlisle Indian Industrial School at Carlisle, Pennsylvania. He is associated with the first recorded use of the word \"racism,\" which he used in 1902 to criticize racial segregation. Pratt is also known for using the phrase \"kill the Indian, save the man\" in reference to the ethos of the Carlisle Indian Industrial School and efforts to educate Native Americans.\n\nPratt was born on December 6, 1840 in Rushford, New York to Richard and Mary Pratt (née Herrick). He was the eldest of their three sons. He contracted smallpox as a young child which left him with facial scarring for the rest of his life. His father moved the family to Logansport, Indiana in 1847. Pratt's father later left his family to take part in the California Gold Rush in 1849 but was robbed and murdered by another prospector leaving Pratt to support his mother and two brothers.\n\nAt the outbreak of the American Civil War Pratt enlisted in the 9th Indiana Infantry Regiment. After his first three-month term expired he re-enlisted as a sergeant with the 2nd Regiment Indiana Cavalry and saw action at the Battle of Chickamauga. While on a recruiting detail in Indiana during the winter of 1863-1864 Pratt met Anna Mason. They were married on April 12, 1864. Eight days later he was commissioned as a first lieutenant with the 11th Regiment Indiana Cavalry. He served in administrative roles for the remainder of the war and was mustered out of the Volunteer Service on May 29, 1865 at the rank of captain. He became a companion of the Military Order of the Loyal Legion of the United States - a military society for officers who had served the Union during the Civil War.\n\nPratt returned to Logansport, Indiana to be reunited with Anna and ran a hardware store. After two years in the hardware business, he re-entered the Army in March 1867 as Second Lieutenant in the 10th United States Cavalry, an African-American regiment composed of black men, including some who were recently freed from slavery famously known as the \"Buffalo Soldiers\" at Fort Sill in the Oklahoma Territory.\n\nPratt's long and active military career included eight years in the great plains, which involved participation in some of the signal conflicts with Native Americans of the southern plains, including the Washita campaign of 1868–1869 and the Red River War of 1874–1875. The winter of 1874-1875 caused many hostiles to surrender to their Indian Agents and Pratt was responsible for gathering testimony for and against the worst offenders. He worked directly with interpreters and prisoners to clear as many charges as possible.\n\nHe was promoted to captain in February 1883; major in July 1898; lieutenant colonel in February 1901; and to colonel in January 1903. He retired from the Army in February 1903 and in April 1904 he was advanced to brigadier general on the Retired List.\n\nAfter the Indian wars subsided President Grant's Attorney General concluded that a state of war could not exist between a nation and its wards therefore the prisoners would be sent as prisoners of war for permanent imprisonment at Fort Marion in St. Augustine, Florida. Pratt was chosen to lead the prisoners because he had much experience with Indians and interpreters from working on their cases. His orders were extremely vague so after he requested further authority over the prisoners he began to experiment with education. In the 1870s at Fort Marion, he introduced classes in the English language, art, guard duty, and craftsmanship to several dozen prisoners who had been chosen from among those who had surrendered in the Indian Territory at the end of the Red River War.\n\nOn November 1, 1879, he founded the Carlisle Indian Industrial School at Carlisle, Pennsylvania, the first of many nonreservation boarding schools for Native Americans.\n\nPratt did not regard his innovations at Fort Marion as limited to Native Americans only. He developed the compulsory education paradigm that would be used for many different demographic minorities in the United States and its territories, including African-Americans, Puerto Ricans, Mexicans, Latinos, Pacific Islanders, Asian-Americans, and Mormons. He took his pedagogical inspiration from the Puritans.\n\nPratt's practice of Americanization of Native Americans by cultural assimilation, which he effected both at Fort Marion and Carlisle, was later regarded by some as a form of cultural genocide. He believed that to claim their rightful place as American citizens, Native Americans needed to renounce their tribal way of life, convert to Christianity, abandon their reservations, and seek education and employment among the \"best classes\" of Americans. In his writings he described his belief that the government must \"kill the Indian...to save the man\".\nPratt was outspoken and a leading member of what was called the \"Friends of the Indian\" movement at the end of the 19th century. He believed in the \"noble\" cause of \"civilizing\" Native Americans. He said, \"The Indians need the chances of participation you have had and they will just as easily become useful citizens.\" At Fort Marion and Carlisle, he sanctioned beatings to force Native Americans to stop speaking their own respective languages.\n\nNevertheless, Pratt's approach was distinct for its time in as much as he regarded Native Americans as being worthy of respect and help, and capable of full participation in society, whereas most of his contemporaries regarded Native Americans as nearly subhuman, who could never be lifted into mainstream American society. . It is difficult to estimate the hundreds of Indians trained in his school, who were robbed of their cultural identities in the name of assimilation. Pratt preached assimilation, in a day marked by rank segregation. \nPratt became an outspoken opponent of tribal segregation on reservations. He believed the system as administered and encouraged by the Bureau of Indian Affairs was hindering the education and civilization of Native Americans and creating helpless wards of the state. These views led to conflicts with the Indian Bureau and the government officials who supported the reservation system. In May 1904, Pratt denounced the Indian Bureau and the reservation system as a hindrance to the civilization and assimilation of Native Americans. This controversy, coupled with earlier disputes with the government over civil service reform, led to Pratt's forced retirement as superintendent of the Carlisle School on June 30, 1904.\n\nThe legacy of Pratt's boarding school programs is felt by modern Native American tribes, where he is remembered by many for his reputation as leader of a cultural genocide that targeted children and families.\n\nFrom his home in Rochester, New York, during his retirement years, Pratt continued to lecture and argue his viewpoints. He died on March 15, 1924, at the Letterman Army Hospital in the Presidio of San Francisco and was buried in Arlington National Cemetery.\n\nWayne Rogers portrayed Pratt in the 1965 episode \"The Journey\" of the syndicated western television series, \"Death Valley Days\". In the same episode, Robert J. Wilke played Sergeant Wilks, who advocates a more harsh treatment of Indian prisoners than does Pratt. Leonard Nimoy was cast as Yellow Bear.\n\nIn the 2005 miniseries, \"Into the West\", produced by Steven Spielberg and DreamWorks, Pratt is played by Keith Carradine. His role at the Carlisle School is addressed in the 2008 documentary, \"Our Spirits Don't Speak English\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247586", "title": "Moisés Muñoz", "text": "Moisés Muñoz\n\nMoisés Alberto Muñoz Rodríguez (born 1 February 1980) is a Mexican retired footballer who played as a goalkeeper.\n\nMuñoz began his career in 1999 with Monarcas Morelia, playing in over 200 matches for the club, before eventually moving to Atlante in 2010. In 2011, he was sold to Club América, with whom he won two league titles and two CONCACAF Champions League titles. He also had loan stints with Chiapas and Puebla before retiring in 2018.\n\nHe has also been called up to the Mexico national team, making his debut in 2004 and was a part of the national team which finished in fourth place at the 2005 FIFA Confederations Cup.\n\nIn June 2012, Muñoz was involved in a car accident while driving from Morelia.\n\nMuñoz was born in Aguililla, Michoacán, on 1 February 1980. Muñoz speaks English fluently, having been educated in Northern California during his formative years, attending elementary school and junior high school in Redwood City as an undocumented child of migrant workers. He never legalized his status in the United States, but his parents have U.S. resident status and live in San Jose. He returned to Mexico before high school and by age 19 was playing for his hometown club in Morelia.\n\nMoisés Muñoz made his league debut with Monarcas Morelia on 19 September 1999 against Pachuca. Muñoz initially was used as back-up for Ángel Comizzo. Morelia won the Invierno 2000 league tournament, achieving their first league title against Toluca, with Muñoz failing to appear in a match. Muñoz did not become a regular starter until the Apertura 2002 season, the same season Morelia advanced to the league final against Toluca, which they lost 4–2 on aggregate. The following season he helped Morelia advance to its second straight league final but lost to Monterrey. A native of the city of Morelia, he became a mainstay in the team, with his eleven years at the club one of the longest for a goalkeeper in the league. He played in 282 matches before being transferred to Atlante in the 2010 Draft.\n\nFor the Apertura 2010 tournament, Muñoz joined Atlante in a trade for Argentine goalkeeper Federico Vilar. He would go on to be a permanent fixture for the club until his departure in 2011, making 53 league appearances.\n\nOn 25 November 2011, Muñoz joined Club América. In his debut tournament with the club – the Clausura 2012 – he started in 21 games and played in 90 minutes in 20 of them; he was subbed off in the second half of the league match against Atlas.\n\nIn May 2013, Muñoz played his first league final with América, conceding the only goal in the 0–1 first-leg loss to Cruz Azul. His performance in the second-leg at the Estadio Azteca on 26 May helped América achieve a dramatic comeback after losing 0–1, 0–2 on aggregate, to tie the match 1–1 in the 88th minute with a goal from captain Aquivaldo Mosquera. In the 92nd minute, with seconds left of injury time, Muñoz scored a diving header off an Osvaldo Martínez corner, which deflected off Cruz Azul defender Alejandro Castro, to send the game into extra-time, and subsequently to a penalty shoot-out. He saved Javier Orozco's penalty kick, and América would go on to win the shoot-out 4–2 and win their eleventh league title. Muñoz's performance was praised by various media outlets.\n\nOn 1 October 2016, Muñoz played his 500th league game in a 1–1 draw against Monterrey.\n\nMuñoz's first international cap for Mexico was in a friendly match against Ecuador on 27 October 2004. Muñoz was the second-choice goalkeeper at both the 2004 Copa América and the 2005 Confederations Cup. Muñoz was the starting goalkeeper during the 2005 CONCACAF Gold Cup. Coach Ricardo La Volpe included him in the preliminary squad for the 2006 World Cup, but he did not make the final 23-man list. Muñoz had also been called up as a backup goalkeeper by Hugo Sánchez and Sven-Göran Eriksson.\n\nFive years after his last call up and eight years after his last cap, Muñoz was selected by coach José Manuel de la Torre to Mexico's 2013 Gold Cup squad. On 14 July 2013, he was the starting goalkeeper for Mexico's final group stage match against Martinique, which Mexico won 3–1. During the match, Muñoz failed to save a penalty-kick from Kévin Parsemain.\n\nLater that year, after Miguel Herrera took over as national team coach, Muñoz was named the starting goalkeeper for the 2014 World Cup qualification playoff matches against New Zealand. He played in both matches as Mexico won the playoff 9–3 on aggregate. He did not make the final 23-man squad for the 2014 World Cup.\n\nIn June 2015 Muñoz was named in Mexico's squad participating in the CONCACAF Gold Cup, being handed the number 1 jersey, instead of the number 23 he traditionally wears (which was instead given to José Juan Vázquez).\n\nOn October 2015, Muñoz was named in Mexico's squad for the 2015 CONCACAF Cup.\n\nMuñoz is the cousin of fellow goalkeeper Carlos Felipe Rodríguez.\n\nMuñoz has stated that had he not decided on playing professional football he would have played basketball or American football.\n\nOn 3 June 2012, while driving his Honda Odyssey through the highway that connects Mexico City with Guadalajara, Muñoz lost control of his vehicle and flipped it on to its roof. He was heading to Morelia, Michoacán at around 7:00 p.m. with his wife Verónica (née Castro Alfaro) and two kids, Héctor and Zafiro. All of them were taken to Ángeles del Pedregal hospital by helicopter – the same hospital where Salvador Cabañas, a former Club América player, was treated after being shot in the head. Apparently, the harsh rainfall in the area caused Muñoz to lose control of his vehicle. Moreover, according to reports by the Mexican Red Cross, Muñoz suffered from traumatic brain injury but was \"stable and conscious.\" Originally, it was reported that Muñoz's health condition was serious, but had improved as he received medical attention. It was later stated that his head wound was not life-threatening, nor would it affect his playing career. Muñoz only suffered a head wound and never lost consciousness of what had happened. He later revealed that he had suffered a broken finger. In an interview Moi said, “If God kept me alive, it’s because I will do something big. Then in Clausura 2013 Final against La Maquina he scored the tying goal.\n\nMiguel Herrera, manager of Club América, stated in a press conference what Muñoz had personally told him:\nIn 2015, Muñoz made an appearance on the Mexican telenovela \"La vecina\".\n\nMuñoz was an analyst for Fox Sports during the 2018 FIFA World Cup.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247587", "title": "M-153 (Michigan highway)", "text": "M-153 (Michigan highway)\n\nM-153 is an east–west state trunkline highway in the Metro Detroit area of the US state of Michigan. It is also known as Ford Road for nearly its entire length, except for its westernmost portion where the highway follows a short expressway to M-14 . Named for William Ford, father of Henry Ford, Ford Road runs from near Dixboro to the Dearborn–Detroit border. The M-153 designation continues along Wyoming Avenue where it terminates at a junction with Interstate 94 (I-94) and US Highway 12 (US 12) on the city line.\n\nFord Road has been a part of the state highway system since December 2, 1930. Since the state has maintained the roadway as M-153, it has been extended westward from Wayne County into Washtenaw County and upgraded in sections to expressway conditions. The first of these improvements were made in the 1930s with additional upgrades in the 1960s and 1970s. The last change was made by 1980 to create the modern routing.\n\nM-153 starts as an interchange with M-14's exit 10 in Superior Township east of Ann Arbor. The highway starts as an expressway curving southeasterly to meet Ford Road near the curve eastward in the expressway at Frains Lake Road, a gravel road northeast of the unincorporated community of Dixboro. Ford Road continues west of here to end at Plymouth Road south of the M-14 freeway, and east of this location, M-153 follows Ford Road through wooded, partially developed terrain to the Washtenaw–Wayne county line at Napier Road. Near the county line are farms until Ford Road reaches residential subdivisions at Ridge Road in Canton Township. At the east edge of the township, Ford Road meets I-275 at exit 25 before passing into Westland between Lotz and Hix roads.\n\nThe interchange with I-275 is built over the western crossing of Willow Creek, a tributary of the River Rouge; the eastern crossing is located between Hix and Newburgh roads near Central City Park. Ford Road continues east, forming a section of the Garden City boundary near Venoy Road. The trunkline crosses into Dearborn Heights at Inkster Road. It forms the boundary between Dearborn and Dearborn Heights between Gulley and Evergreen roads, crossing US 24 (Telegraph Road) in between. East of Telegraph Road, M-153 is built to expressway standards complete with interchanges at Edward N. Hines Drive, Evergreen Road, M-39 (Southfield Freeway) and Greenfield Road. The highway crosses the River Rouge north of the Dearborn Country Club west of Evergreen Road. Ford Road ends at Wyoming and McGraw avenues. M-153 turns south along Wyoming Avenue to cross I-94 at exit 210. This interchange is also the location where I-94 and US 12 (Michigan Avenue) cross, marking the eastern end of M-153 at Michigan Avenue.\n\nFord Road serves as the zero-mile line for the Detroit area's Mile Road System. From the Canton Center Road intersection eastward, all of M-153 is a part of the National Highway System, a network of roads important to the country's economy, defense, and mobility. M-153 is maintained by the Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT) like other state highways in Michigan. As a part of these maintenance responsibilities, the department tracks the volume of traffic that uses the roadways under its jurisdiction. These volumes are expressed using a metric called annual average daily traffic, which is a statistical calculation of the average daily number of vehicles on a segment of roadway. MDOT's surveys in 2010 showed that the highest traffic levels along M-153 were the 64,956 vehicles daily between the River Rouge and the Southfield Freeway in Dearborn; the lowest counts were the 10,380 vehicles per day between Plymouth Road and the end of the expressway in Superior Township.\n\nFord Road was named for William Ford, father of automobile pioneer Henry Ford. The elder Ford was born in Ireland and settled in Dearborn Township in 1847. William's carpentry business lead him around to regional businesses and neighbors, traveling the area until he took up the family business of farming after marriage to Mary Litogot. They settled on a farm near the intersection of modern-day Ford Road and Greenfield Avenue; this farm was Henry's birthplace in 1863. Settling into his family life, William started serving the local community. He was a road commissioner, school board member and a justice of the peace. In honor of his accomplishments, Ford Road was named in his honor before his death in March 1905.\n\nFord Road remained in township jurisdiction until August 29, 1924, when it was transferred to Wayne County control. It was transferred to state control on December 2, 1930. The Michigan State Highway Department designated it M-153 upon transfer to their responsibility. The highway designation was determined to continue west of the county line into Washtenaw County as a northerly bypass of Ann Arbor, but the segment between Canton Center Road and US 12 on Plymouth Road was not built at the time. The first extension west was finished in 1933 from the county line to Napier Road. The road was widened into a major thoroughfare between Detroit and Ann Arbor in 1934, to relieve congestion on Michigan Avenue. The highway bypass of Ann Arbor was cancelled by 1935, leaving the western terminus at US 12 (Plymouth Road).\nConstruction of a northerly freeway bypass of Ann Arbor along M-14 to M-153 was completed by 1965. A second freeway section was built between Ford Road at Frains Lake Road to the contemporary end of the M-14 freeway. This second freeway was assigned as part of M-153 and the former routing along Ford Road west to Plymouth Road was removed from the state trunkline highway system. A reconstruction project along M-153 in 1973 was completed, bringing the highway up to expressway standards. Several interchanges were built along the segment starting west of the M-39 (Southfield Freeway) to I-94 in Dearborn. The last extension moved the western terminus in early 1980 when the M-14 freeway was completed, and M-153 was extended along a section of freeway used to connect the previous end of the M-14 freeway to Plymouth Road.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247588", "title": "Sir Cowasji Jehangir, 2nd Baronet", "text": "Sir Cowasji Jehangir, 2nd Baronet\n\nSir Cowasji Jehangir, 2nd Baronet, (16 February 1879 – 17 October 1962) was a prominent member of the Bombay Parsi community. He was the son of Sir Jehangir Cowasji Jehangir Readymoney, 1st Bt. (1853–1934) and grand-nephew of Sir Cowasji Jehangir \"Readymoney\" (1812–1878). He was educated at St John's College, Cambridge.\n\nCowasji Jehangir campaigned for a prominent role for the Parsi Zoroastrian community in independent India. He had become a member of the \"Western India National Liberation Federation\", at its founding in 1919, and was elected its president in 1936 and 1937. He was also active in the reactionary \"Parsee Central Committee\", which was critical of Congress Parsis like Dadabhai Naoroji and Pherozeshah Mehta.\n\nAt the second \"Round Table Conference\" in London during 1930-32, where the framework for the political and constitutional future of India was laid down, he was one of the three political \"liberals\" to represent the Parsi community. To the Minorities Committee and the Franchise Committee he advocated a graded franchise based on the standard of education which would have given the Parsis an immense over-representation in future elections. Such a scheme was never taken seriously by any other party in the discussions.\n\nAfter 1939, when it was apparent that independence was to come in a short while, a large number of Parsis became active in the \"Western India National Liberation Federation\", whose meetings were often held at his home. As a last-ditch effort, on the eve of independence in 1945, he pleaded to the Viceroy in a telegram not to forget the claims of the Parsis. This appeal, made as the president of the \"Parsee Central Association\" was nullified by a telegram from a group of Parsis calling themselves the \"Freedom Group\" which rejected any special privilege for the Parsis.\n\nThe Jehangir Art Gallery was established in 1952 in memory of his late son, the Cowasji Jehangir Hall and Jehangir Institute of Psychiatry are named after him. The Jehangir Nursing Home (now Jehangir Hospital) in Pune was founded on property donated by Sir Cowasji and his wife Lady Hirabai. Originally named \"Readymoney Villa\", it was renamed in 1944 after their son Jehangir Cowasji Jehangir, who died in an accident that year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247592", "title": "Konangi", "text": "Konangi\n\nKonangi () (born 1 November 1956) is the pen name of the Tamil writer Ilangovan. He is the maternal grandson of the Tamil playwright, lyricist, writer and Freedom fighter Madurakavi Baskaradoss. His father is the Tamil writer Shanmugam and his mother is Saraswathi. His elder brother is the Tamil short-story writer Tamilselvan and his younger brother is Murugaboopathy a contemporary Tamil playwright. He grew up in Naagalapuram, bodinayakanur and Nenmeni Mettupatti and he currently lives in Kovilpatti, Tamil Nadu.\n\nDescribed as the most important Tamil voice since Pudumaipithan, Konangi has published six short story collections and three novels. His works belongs to the less popular serious literature genre in Tamil which is mostly published in literary magazines and only occasionally in magazines and newspapers with wider circulation. \n\nKonangi's first short story veechu (வீச்சு) was published in \"Thaamarai\" a Tamil magazine in 1980 and from then on he went to create some of the most original short stories in the Tamil language. His stories are characterised by very dense images, a tight narrative style with a vocabulary like no other bringing a ritualistic shade to the use of the Tamil language. His works often pushes and breaks the limits of fiction in Tamil literature by abandonment of the conventions of plot and character construction.\n\nKonangi quit his job in March 1988 and started his own little magazine \"Kal Kudhirai\" in October 1988 in the Kalrayan Hills which continues to publish serious contemporary Tamil fiction, poetry, reviews and translations. Konangi's earlier short stories dealt with the issues of Alienation, effects of Urbanisation in villages leading to farmer suicides, Childhood memories, Rural tales and other metaphysical themes. He later experimented in fiction writing a wide range of genres including Surrealistic and Magical stories of dreamscapes. His previous novels \"Paazhi\" dealt with Jainism and \"Pidhiraa\" dealt with a wide range of subjects using the reference of the five ancient Sangam landscapes. His latest novel \"Tha\" was published in January 2013.\n\nDespite receiving enormous acknowledgements for his literary outputs, Konangi stays away from the media .\n\n\n\n\n\nPidhira was released in 2004 and is largely a novel that was less denser and more accessible than the earlier work paazhi. It had its sections based on the five Tamil sangam landscapes . The first part 'mullai' was written as a fiction based on the travels in Andhra Pradesh.\n\n\"Tha\" published in January 2013 (released in Dhanushkodi) is an enormous piece of imaginary work of lyrical prose which deals with the displacement of the north east Indians, Samaritans, Veenai Dhanammal,Tales from the Silappatikaram, The Music of His Master's Voice, Ancient Tamil music, Saraswathi Mahal Library, the Alipore Jail, the mythology of the Samaritans, the works of Socrates, the landscape of Nagapattinam, the mythological stories of Ravana, HMS Blake, Zen, Kalamkari paintings and other elements in a fictional universe called Tha.\n\nThe novel also contains allegories, folk tales, oral histories, ritual details, archetypes, fables, anecdotes, parables, tall tales, legends and ghost stories making it a diverse work.\n\n\nOpposed to other novels in literature, Konangi has his own conventions in all aspects of the building of a novel. His works are usually made up of fragments and it distorts the experience of its main characters, presenting events outside of chronological order and attempts to disrupt the idea of characters with unified and stable personalities. It also has the characteristics of lack of an obvious plot, minimal development of character, variations in time sequence, experiments with vocabulary and syntax, and alternative endings and beginnings. Due to these aspects his works are often thought to be incomprehensible and chaotic despite being implied the other way.\n\n\n\nSayings quoted below appeared in magazines and from his own works and interviews.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247596", "title": "Keiko Ihara", "text": "Keiko Ihara\n\nKeiko Ihara (井原 慶子, \"Ihara Keiko\") (born July 4, 1973) is a Japanese race car driver. She was a former race queen, a model who appears in a swimsuit or other fashionable apparel at race circuits, before deciding to become a racing driver. She is one of the few Japanese women nationals to race internationally at a high level. Her best finishes in the British Formula Three Championship are two 8th places finishes in 2005, which helped her to a final championship standing position of 16th with 12 points. In the 2006 series, she finished in 17th and last position in the Championship Class, with 4 points.\n\nIhara joined the Gulf Racing Middle East to compete at the FIA World Endurance Championship in the LMP2 class with Jean-Denis Délétraz and Fabien Giroix as codrivers. In 2013, she raced two rounds for Gulf Racing Middle East and four with OAK Racing, both in the LMP2 class. The driver won the Fuji round of the 2014 Asian Le Mans Series for Oak Racing, together with Ho-Pin Tung and David Cheng.\n\n Season still in progress. † – Charity race guest.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Season still in progress\n\n"}
{"id": "2247600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247600", "title": "Her Greatest Inspirational Songs", "text": "Her Greatest Inspirational Songs\n\nHer Greatest Inspirational Songs is a compilation of songs from Amy Grant's career from 1977 to 1985 which was released after BMG acquired the rights to the catalog spanning this period.\n\n\nAlbum - Billboard (North America)\n"}
{"id": "2247604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247604", "title": "The Institute of Science, Mumbai", "text": "The Institute of Science, Mumbai\n\nThe Institute of Science (formerly known as the Royal Institute of Science (RIS)) is an institution of postgraduate education and research located in Mumbai, India. It is managed by the Government of Maharashtra and is currently clustered from 2019 batch with the Dr. Homi Bhabha State University. However, previously enrolled batch students will get their degree affiliated to the Mumbai University. It is accredited with an 'A' Grade by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) in March 2014.\n\nEstablished in 1920, its research centers around all branches of science including Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Microbiology, Mathematics, Biochemistry, Bio-Technology and Environmental studies. In Maharashtra state and University of Mumbai, some programs like the Masters in biochemistry, were available only in the Institute of Science until recently. It offers M.Sc. and Ph.D. programs and currently does not offer undergraduate programs. Though the institute offers M.Sc. and Ph.D. programs of the University of Mumbai till 2018 enrolled batch due to the autonomy granted to the institute, the admissions to these programs are managed separately by the institute but examinations are conducted by the Dr. Homi Bhabha State University (cluster).\n\n'The Institute of Science, Mumbai' was founded by George Clarke, 1st Baron Sydenham of Combe. The Institute's buildings were constructed using funds from private donations. Sir Cowasji Jehangir donated money for the Institute's east wing. The construction of the west flank of the main building was paid for by Jacob Sassoon, and the east flank by Sir Currimbhoy Ebrahim, Bt. Vasanji Mulji donated funds for the library.\n\nThe foundation stone for the institute, designed by George Wittet, was laid in 1911. Completed in 1920, the building stands next to the Gothic structures of the Rajabai tower of University of Mumbai and the Elphinstone College.\n\nBuilt in yellow Kharodi basalt stone from the district of Thane, this elegant, curving facades of the two wings, joined by the flat central dome of the Cowasji Jehangir Hall, manage to harmonize with the 19th century buildings surrounding it. Protected from the street by the many-arched facades are a botanical garden, herbarium and a park.\nThe Institute of Science is awarded the status of \"College with potential for Excellence\" by the UGC in 2009 and awarded generous grants for infrastructure development.\n"}
{"id": "2247609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247609", "title": "Maasa Sudo", "text": "Maasa Sudo\n\nSudo was born in Tokyo. In 2002, she successfully passed the Hello! Project Kids audition. Sudo was a member of the group Berryz Kobo from 2004 to 2015. In March 2009, she released her first Photobook, called \"Maasa\". In 2010, it was confirmed that she was going to be the lead-actress of the movie \"Light Novel no Tanoshii Kakikata!\", based on a light novel with the same name, together with former Hello Pro Egg Arisa Noto, Hisanori Sato and others. The movie premiered in cinemas in Japan in December 2010, and the DVD was released March 3, 2011. Maasa played the role of \"Tsurugi Yabusame\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247610", "title": "James Patrick (ice hockey)", "text": "James Patrick (ice hockey)\n\nJames Patrick (born June 14, 1963) is a Canadian professional ice hockey coach and former player. He is currently the head coach for the Winnipeg Ice of the Western Hockey League (WHL).\n\nAfter a successful collegiate career at the University of North Dakota, Patrick represented Canada at the 1984 Winter Olympics in Sarajevo, Yugoslavia. After the Olympics, Patrick signed his first professional contract on March 5, 1984 with the New York Rangers, and made his NHL debut two days later in Minnesota. Patrick scored his first NHL goal on March 17, 1984, in Philadelphia. Patrick enjoyed ten productive seasons in New York before being traded to the Hartford Whalers and then to the Calgary Flames during the 1993–94 season.\n\nAfter several years in Calgary, Patrick signed with the Buffalo Sabres as a free agent after the 1997–98 season. Though he was chosen to play in the 1987 Canada Cup and many other international events, Patrick was never selected to the NHL All Star game. He ranks high among defencemen in both all times game played (1280) and total points (639). Patrick set a record (since broken) for career games played by a Team Canada player with 40 career games, breaking the previous record of 37 games in 2002. On September 8, 2005, Patrick announced his retirement from the NHL at the age of 42. He was immediately named to the Sabres' staff as a skill development coach. However, he left the team before the season to play in Germany's Deutsche Eishockey Liga with the Frankfurt Lions.\n\nPatrick joined the Buffalo Sabres as assistant coach in 2006. He made his debut as head coach in February 2012, when Lindy Ruff was incapable of coaching due to an injury. After Ruff was fired in February 2013, Patrick remained with the Sabres' coaching staff until the end of the season, and then was let go.\n\nAfter the 2013 season he re-joined Ruff as an assistant coach with the Dallas Stars. At the end of the 2016–17 regular season, Patrick was let go when the Stars elected not to renew Ruff's expiring contract, after the team missed the playoffs.\n\nOn June 6, 2017, it was announced that Patrick was named as the head coach for the Kootenay Ice of the Western Hockey League (WHL).\n\nPatrick is half Ukrainian and half English. His father, Stephen (born as Stepan Potrebka), was the child of Ukrainian immigrants from the Lviv region, and played for the Winnipeg Blue Bombers of the Canadian Football League. Patrick is the brother of Steve and the uncle of Nolan Patrick.\n\nIn 2014, Patrick was charged with assault stemming from a domestic incident, while working as an assistant coach for the Dallas Stars.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247616", "title": "Mxtabs", "text": "Mxtabs\n\nMXTabs.net was an American music tablature website created in 1999, offering free guitar, bass, and drum tablature created by users of the site, in addition to music reviews and instrument lessons. Although the site shut down in June 2006 in response to claims made by the Music Publishers' Association (MPA) about the supposed illegality of music tabs, it has since been bought by MusicNotes and now offers free, legal tablature.\n\nThe site was in public-alpha stage for some time as not all features had been added and tabs were available only to countries where a licence was in place. The site came out of public alpha stage and was launched on 1 July 2008. The site is now defunct and the domain name redirects to Songsterr, which has no relation to MXTabs.\n\nMxtabs started out as a hobby drum website in 1999 by a young musician attempting to learn drums. As the site grew in size and popularity, it added subsites for guitar and bass guitar. Users would submit tablature for a song, and that tab would be incorporated into the website. Mxtabs continued to grow, increasing its database to over 150,000 tabs by December 2005, when the Music Publishers' Association threatened websites that provided lyrics or tabs with jail time in addition to fines and shutting the websites down.\n\nHowever, the MPA took no legal action at that time, only warning that they would begin doing so in 2006. Mxtabs responded on December 26, 2005 by taking their entire website offline. Later, the website was changed to simply forward viewers to its affiliate forum, MusicianForums.\n\nOn February 24, 2006, the owners of Mxtabs put the website back online with a letter explaining their position. In short, they believe that the purpose of Mxtabs is to \"aid musicians in learning their instruments.\" They say that Mxtabs has accounted for as much as $3000 a month in sheet music sales, and offers many tabs that do not have equivalent sheet music published, so Mxtabs and similar sites are the only place that musicians can find a way to play these songs. The letter concludes by pointing out that tabs have never been proven to be illegal, then requesting that sheet music companies contact Mxtabs in order to create a system of tab licensing.\n\nOn June 25, 2006, the administrators of Mxtabs took the tablature offline once more. The website remained up with only one page: their final departing words, a 4 paragraph statement. There was no access to any of the tabs from the site. In their statement they claimed that \"...to this date, we have not received any threatening letters, but are closing on our own volition. Mxtabs was reopened in February with the hope of receiving some sort of response; with the lack of that response, it is sadly time to close.\". Since this, the original MXTabs network shifted focus to revolve around Ferwerda's review site, Sputnikmusic.\n\nOn August 7, the website was re-opened, however, the tabs are inaccessible.\n\nOn March 27, 2007, MXTabs announced an agreement with the Harry Fox Agency, allowing for legal tabs in exchange for sharing ad revenue from the website. Tabs will be provided free to the public. Members of MXTabs will submit and improve tabs.\n\nMxtabs was believed to be reopening in the summer of 2007, however they did not reach private alpha stage until late 2007. According to the blog on the MXTabs website, the main problems were getting the last few companies to sign contracts with them. Also, they had to update the data on each of the 10,000 plus tabs to reflect the new way MXTabs will be working and add all of the new features they wanted.\n\nAs of October 10, 2007, the blog lists definitions for rebirth, seemingly implying that MXTabs is almost ready to be reopened. This coincides with MXTabs sending out emails notifying people of alpha testing positions. These emails have been set to those who registered their email addresses for updates.\n\nAs of February 26, the site has now been opened for use showing off the new layout of the website, but the tab pages come out with text reading\n\n\"License Restricted\nWe're sorry. The song whose tab you are trying to view is not licensed in your country (CANADA)\"\n\nThe site does appear to work in the United States but some songs are not licensed yet and if you come across a song with no license the website ask you to fill out information about the song and the band to help them gain licenses quicker.\n\nOn May 9, tabs were made accessible to countries outside the United States, including Canada, United Kingdom and Australia among others. However, the availability depends on the licensing agreements.\n\nAfter several big announcements due May (Tab Summissions and many new publisher agreements, they announced the site will come out of public alpha stage and be launched on the 1 July 2008.\n\nMXTabs officially launched on July 1, 2008, partnering with Taylor Guitars for a launch promotion contest.\n\nOn October 10, 2011, MXTabs.net shut down and redirected all traffic to partner Songsterr.com.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247625", "title": "Apollo's Chariot", "text": "Apollo's Chariot\n\nApollo's Chariot is a steel roller coaster at the Busch Gardens Williamsburg theme park in James City County, Virginia, United States. The ride was the first Hyper Coaster designed by Swiss firm Bolliger & Mabillard. It officially opened to the public on March 30, 1999.\n\nThe ride is characterized by eight air-time hills, with heights ranging between . Riders ascend on the chain lift hill before dropping at an angle of 65°. Apollo's Chariot is generally well received with it consistently rating highly in industry rankings.\n\nApollo's Chariot was announced on September 5, 1998, as the tallest and fastest roller coaster at Busch Gardens Williamsburg. An article in the \"Daily Press\" on January 23, 1999, mentioned that the ride was nearing completion with approximately 20 pieces of track left to be installed. Busch Gardens held Apollo's Chariots opening ceremony on March 30, 1999. Italian fashion model Fabio Lanzoni was brought in to promote the new roller coaster. During the ride's inaugural run, a 10-pound goose struck him in the face leaving his nose covered with blood. He was treated at a nearby hospital for minor cuts, while the goose was killed on impact. Upon opening, it was the first Hyper Coaster from Swiss manufacturer Bolliger & Mabillard.\n\nThe Apollo's Chariot is a Hyper Coaster made by Bolliger & Mabillard. The park's existing terrain is utilized to allow a lift hill to be translated into a first drop stretching . With a top speed of , the ride features eight air-time hills. Riders of Apollo's Chariot experience up to 4.1 times the force of gravity on the 2-minute, 15-second ride. Apollo's Chariot operates with three trains with nine cars per train. Riders are arranged four across in a single row for a total of 36 riders per train. This configuration of trains allows for a theoretical capacity of 1,750 riders per hour. Riders are restrained by a lap bar and the seats are elevated so riders’ feet don't touch the ground.\n\nAfter departing from the station, the train begins to climb the chain lift hill. When the train reaches the top, it drops down a few feet in a pre-drop. The pre-drop serves to reduce the stress and pull of the chain. After the pre-drop, the train goes down a drop toward a water-filled ravine at a 65 degree angle and reaches a top speed of . At the end of the ravine, the train enters a second airtime hill with a drop. A short narrow above ground tunnel is at the bottom of the second drop. After the tunnel, the train descends a drop, which banks to the left as it descends. The train then goes through an upward helix. Coming out of the helix, the train drops then turns right and rises up into the mid-course brake run. The train drops out of the brake run followed by another drop at toward the ravine. The train then banks right, makes a dip, turns left and goes through a small dip. The train then makes one last airtime drop before climbing up and into the final brake run. There is approximately 26 seconds of airtime during the 2-minute, 15-second ride.\n\nIn the ride's debut year, Busch Gardens Williamsburg had lower than expected levels of attendance. This was attributed to prolonged periods of inclement weather. As a result of this, the park planned to relaunch Apollo's Chariot in 2000 in an attempt to drive attendance.\n\nIn \"Amusement Today\"s annual Golden Ticket Awards, Apollo's Chariot has consistently ranked highly. In its debut year, it ranked position 20. In the 13 years since, the coaster has consistently ranked higher, peaking at #4 in 2005, 2007, 2008 and 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247626", "title": "Cowasji Jehangir Readymoney", "text": "Cowasji Jehangir Readymoney\n\nSir Cowasji Jehangir Readymoney, CSI (24 May 1812 – 19 July 1878) was a Parsi community leader, philanthropist and industrialist of Bombay, India.\n\nCowasji Jehangir Readymoney came from a wealthy Parsi family. His great-grandfather and two great-uncles had moved in the early 18th century from Navsari near Surat to Bombay and had become pioneers in the lucrative opium trade with China. The brothers were cash-rich and worked as bankers to various British clients, and they earned for themselves the sobriquet \"Readymoney,\" which they later adopted as a surname.\n\nAmong the three brothers, only Hirji Jewanji Readymoney was blessed with surviving issue, being two daughters. He arranged in the usual Indian way for them to marry into families of their own community and similar background. The girls were married into wealthy Parsi families; the elder married a Banaji, the younger a Dady Sett (or Dadiseth). In the next generation, the son of the elder daughter, Jehangir Hirji, married the daughter of the younger daughter, Mirbai, again in a match arranged by their families in the usual Indian way. Jehangir Hirji was designated the heir of his grandfather and his two granduncles. He and Mirbai were blessed with two sons. The elder was the father of Jehangir Cowasji Jehangir Readymoney and the younger was Cowasji Jehangir, the subject of this page.\n\nCowasji Jehangir Readymoney's only formal education was at the (then) well-known school kept by Serjeant Sykes at one of Bombay's forts. At the age of 15, Readymoney entered the firm of Duncan, Gibb & Co. as \"godown keeper,\" or warehouse clerk.\n\nIn 1837 Readymoney was promoted to the responsible and lucrative appointment of \"guarantee broker\" to two leading European firms in Bombay. By 1846 he was able to begin trading on his own account. In 1866 Readymoney was appointed a commissioner of income tax, his tactful management being largely responsible for the fact that this tax, then new to Bombay and unpopular, was levied with unexpected financial success.\n\nReadymoney was appointed Justice of the Peace for the town and island of Bombay and a member of the Board of Conservancy.\nHe was invested as a Companion of The Most Exalted Order of the Star of India (C.S.I) in 1871; and in 1872 he was created a Knight Bachelor of the United Kingdom in recognition of his donations to the Indian Institute in London and other charitable causes in Bombay amounting to approximately £200,000. Readymoney built colleges, hospitals, insane asylums; founded a refuge for people of \"respectability\" who found themselves destitute or friendless in Bombay; erected several drinking fountains of artistic merit; gave donations to the Catholic and the Presbyterian missions in India. Readymoney also financed the erection in 1869 of the Readymoney Drinking Fountain in Regent's Park, London, which was opened by the Princess of Teck, as a mark of gratitude from the Parsi community to the protection that British rule in India had given them.\n\nReadymoney had a particular association with University of Bombay and he financed the erection of several notable buildings there, including the Convocation Hall designed by Sir George Gilbert Scott. Readymoney was also a member of the University's Faculty of Civil Engineering and its Senate. A statue of Readymoney, by Thomas Woolner, stands on the campus grounds. There is also a small bas-relief sculpture of him at the University of Edinburgh but Readymoney's connection to that establishment is unknown.\n\nDuring his lifetime, Readymoney was known as the \"Peabody of Bombay\". The reason for this epithet is unknown, but may be a reference to London's Peabody Trust, since Jehangir owned several large housing estates and is said to have identified himself with George Peabody.\n\nAfter a long illness, Readymoney died in 1878. His nephew and adopted son and heir, Jehangir Cowasji Jehangir Readymoney, was created a Knight Bachelor (in 1895) and a Baronet (in 1908).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247655", "title": "Bagli", "text": "Bagli\n\nBagli may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2247666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247666", "title": "Premchand Roychand", "text": "Premchand Roychand\n\nPremchand Roychand was a 19th-century Indian businessman known as the \"Cotton King\" and \"Bullion King\" from Bombay.\n\nBorn in 1831 he was the son of Roychand Dipchand, a Dasa Jain, a merchant from Surat. The Roychand family moved to Bombay when Premchand was a young boy. He was educated at Elphinstone College. Recorded as the first Indian broker able to speak, read and write English, he entered the lists as a stock broker in 1849. Apart from the capital markets, Premchand Roychand had significant business interests in the cotton and bullion trades along with the stock market. He was a founding member of \"The Native Share & Stock Brokers Association\" which is now Bombay Stock Exchange, the second largest stock exchange of India. He earned significant profits from the cotton boom which was triggered by the start of the American Civil War in April 1861 which stayed till 1865.\n\nHe lost the majority of his fortune in the Backbay reclamation scheme, and other such ventures. He subsequently earned a portion of it back and turned to philanthropic ventures. The Rajabai Clock Tower in the University of Bombay was named for his mother and was built from a donation of in 1878. He was director of the Bank of Bombay, the largest in the Bombay Presidency. He also invested in other schools, including many for girls such as J.B. Petit High School for Girls; he also established the \"Premchand Roychand Award\" for outstanding art students with the University of Calcutta. He also donated to the Asiatic Society.\n\nHe died in 1906. His bungalow in Byculla that he named Premodayan became Regina Pacis Convent, an orphanage and school for destitute girls.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247670", "title": "Luke Goss", "text": "Luke Goss\n\nLuke Damon Goss (born 29 September 1968) is an English actor, and drummer of the 1980s band Bros. He has appeared in numerous films including \"Blade II\" (2002) as Jared Nomak, \"One Night with the King\" (2006) as King Xerxes, \"\" (2008) as Prince Nuada, \"Tekken\" (2009) as Steve Fox, \"Interview with a Hitman\" (2012) as Viktor, and \"Traffik\" (2018) as Red.\n\nGoss, along with twin brother Matt Goss, started his career with the 1980s boy band Bros. In total he has charted with thirteen hit singles in the UK.\n\nWhen Bros broke up in the early 1990s, Goss worked with the Band of Thieves where he released two singles \"Sweeter Than The Midnight Rain\" and \"Give Me One More Chance\", he then released \"L.I.F.E.\" under the band's name change Thieves Like Us due to a change in lineup. His autobiography, \"\"I Owe You Nothing\",\" was a top 10 best seller book and went on to have three subsequent printings. He also began to appear in stage musicals including \"Grease\" and \"What a Feeling\", and has turned to acting in films full-time, with his first most notable role being the villain in \"Blade II\". He also appeared as The Creature in the Hallmark Channel's \"Frankenstein\". Goss can be seen in the 2004 crime drama, \"Charlie\" in which he plays real-life gangster Charlie Richardson. In the 2005 comedy \"The Man\", he starred as another villain, Joey/Kane, alongside Eugene Levy and Samuel L. Jackson.\n\nHe has since had roles in \"One Night with the King\", as King Xerxes. He appeared in \"Bone Dry\", as Eddie and in the thriller \"Unearthed\", as Kale. Goss received a CAMIE (Character and Morality in Entertainment) Award for his work in \"One Night with the King\" on 12 May 2007 at the Beverly Hills Hotel in Los Angeles. Both \"One Night with the King\" and \"Bone Dry\" were viewed at the 2007 Cannes Film Festival. \"Bone Dry\" premiered in Los Angeles on 9 January 2008.\n\nIn the autumn of 2008, Goss returned from filming \"\" in Budapest, Hungary, in which he plays Prince Nuada. The sequel was released in North America on 11 July 2008.\n\nIn February 2008 he signed to play the role of Steve Fox in \"Tekken\", which was filmed in Shreveport, Louisiana. He was seen in a commercial for the new Cadillac Escalade Hybrid. In January 2010, Goss won the role as Frankenstein in \"Death Race 2\" which was originally played by Jason Statham in the first film, under the direction from Roel Reiné, which began shooting on location in Eastern Europe in February 2010. Goss also played the lead role in Syfy's dark tale television film \"Witchville\". In May 2010, he won the Ultimate Badass Award at the PollyGrind Film Festival for his role in the zombie-vampire film \"The Dead Undead\". In February 2018, Goss released his directorial debut Your Move.\n\nGoss was born in Lewisham, London, the son of Carol (Read) and Alan Goss. Since 1994, he has been married to backing singer Shirley Lewis (who has worked with singers Elton John, George Michael, Luther Vandross, and many others), and has one stepdaughter, Carli. In January 2007, he and wife Shirley moved permanently to Los Angeles, but still maintain a residence in London.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247677", "title": "Indian rope trick", "text": "Indian rope trick\n\nThe Indian rope trick is a magic trick said to have been performed in and around India during the 19th century. Sometimes described as \"the world’s greatest illusion\", it reputedly involved a magician, a length of rope, and one or more boy assistants.\n\nIn the 1990s the trick was said by some historians to be a hoax perpetrated in 1890 by John Wilkie of the \"Chicago Tribune\" newspaper. Peter Lamont has argued that there are no accurate references to the trick predating 1890, and later stage magic performances of the trick were inspired by Wilkie's account.\n\nThere are old accounts from the 9th century (by Adi Shankara), the 14th century (by Ibn Battuta), and the 17th century (by the Mughal Emperor Jahangir), of versions of the trick, but this is denied by Lamont as the accounts described are different from the \"classic\" Indian rope trick.\n\nThere are three variants of the trick, which differ in the degree of theatricality displayed by the magician and his helper:\n\n\nRobert Elliot of the London Magic Circle, when offering a substantial reward in the 1930s for an outdoor performance, found it necessary to define the trick. He demanded that \"the rope must be thrown into the air and defy the force of gravity, while someone climbs it and disappears.\"\n\nIn his commentary on Gaudapada's explanation of the \"Mandukya Upanishad\", the 9th-century Hindu teacher Adi Shankara, illustrating a philosophical point, wrote of a juggler who throws a thread up into the sky; he climbs up it carrying arms and goes out of sight; he engages in a battle in which he is cut into pieces, which fall down; finally he arises again. A few words further on Shankara referred to the principle underlying the trick, saying that the juggler who ascends is different from the real juggler who stands unseen, \"veiled magically\", on the ground. In Shankara's commentary on the Vedanta Sutra (also called the Brahma Sutra) he mentioned that the juggler who climbs up the rope to the sky is illusory, and so is only fancied to be different from the real juggler, who is hidden on the ground. The fact that Shankara referred to the trick's method was pointed out in 1934 in a discussion of the Indian rope trick in the Indian press. These Sanskrit texts of Shankara are the basis for the claim that the trick is of great antiquity in India.\n\nEdward Melton, an Anglo-Dutch traveler, described a performance he saw in Batavia about 1670 by a troupe of Chinese jugglers. Grasping one end of a ball of cord in his hand, a juggler threw up the ball which went out of sight, then swiftly climbed the vertical cord until he, too, was out of sight. Body pieces fell and were placed in a basket. Finally the basket was upturned, the body pieces fell out topsy turvy, and Melton \"saw all those limbs creep together again,\" the man being restored to life. A detailed engraved illustration accompanied this account.\nIbn Battuta, when recounting his travels through Hangzhou, China in 1346, describes a trick broadly similar to the Indian rope trick.\n\nPu Songling records a version in \"Strange Stories from a Chinese Studio\" (1740) which he claims to have witnessed personally. In his account, a request by a mandarin that a wandering magician produce a peach in the dead of winter results in the trick's performance, on the pretence of getting a peach from the Gardens of Heaven. The magician's son climbs the rope, vanishes from sight, and then (supposedly) tosses down a peach, before being \"caught by the Garden's guards\" and \"killed\", with his dismembered body falling from above in the traditional manner. (In this version the magician himself never climbs the rope.) After placing the parts in a basket, the magician gives the mandarin the peach and requests payment. As soon as he is paid, his son emerges alive from the basket. Songling claims the trick was a favorite of the White Lotus society and that the magician must have learnt it from them (or they from him), though he gives no indication where (or how) he learnt this.\n\nThere has long been skepticism regarding the trick.\n\nIn 1911, Charles Bertram reported how he had visited India and communicated with over a hundred magicians in search of the trick. According to Bertram \"none of them laid any claim to being able to perform it, and when they were questioned upon the subject, disclaimed any idea of ever having seen, and in many cases, having heard of it.\" He offered a reward of £500 but no magician took the challenge of demonstrating the trick.\n\nIn 1917, Lieutenant F. W. Holmes stated that whilst on his veranda with a group of officers in Kirkee, he had observed the trick being performed by an old man and young boy. The boy climbed the rope, balanced himself and then descended. The old man tapped the rope and it collapsed. This demonstration did not include the disappearance of the boy. In February 1919, Holmes presented a photograph he had taken of the trick at a meeting with members of The Magic Circle. It was examined by Robert Elliot who stated it was not a demonstration of the Indian rope trick but an example of a balancing trick on a bamboo pole. Elliot noted that \"the tapering of the pole is an absolutely clear feature and definitely shows that it was not a rope.\" Holmes later admitted this, but the photograph was reproduced by the press in several magazines and newspapers as proof of the trick having been successfully demonstrated. Although discredited, the photograph is considered to be the first ever taken of the trick.\n\nIn 1919, G. Huddleston writing in \"Nature\", claimed to have spent more than thirty years in India and knew many of the best conjurors in the country but not one of them could demonstrate the trick.\n\nLord Frederick Spencer Hamilton in 1921, described an alleged demonstration of the trick, told to him by Colonel Bernard. Bernard described taking photographs of the boy climbing the rope, disappearing and reappearing at a courtyard in Calcutta. However, the courtyard had been filled with dense smoke and when he had developed the photographs they revealed that \"neither the juggler, nor the boy, nor the rope had moved at all.\" This caused Hamilton to suggest that the juggler had somehow drugged or hypnotized Bernard. Elliot criticized this second-hand account as nothing more than \"hearsay evidence.\" He found the details and lack of witnesses suspicious, concluding that Bernard had hoaxed Hamilton.\n\nL. H. Branson in his book \"Indian Conjuring\" (1922) wrote that \"the trick has never been performed out of doors. That is to say that a rope thrown up into the air has not remained suspended in mid-air, nor has any boy ever climbed up it. That when at the top he has not disappeared and that after his appearance he did not come down in bits, covered with blood or otherwise.\" Branson offered £300 to anyone who could demonstrate the trick in the open.\n\nMagicians such as Harry Blackstone, David Devant, Horace Goldin, Carl Hertz, Servais Le Roy and Howard Thurston incorporated the Indian rope trick into their stage shows. However, their stage versions involved the use of curtains, mirrors and wires. The real challenge was to perform the full trick including the disappearance of the boy in broad daylight, outside in the open air. Thurston considered this to have never been achieved and in 1927 offered a reward of 5,000 rupees to anyone who could demonstrate it.\n\nThe journalist James Saxon Childers in 1932, reported that he visited India with a desire to see the trick but noted that \"the first conjuror I asked about the rope trick smiled at me, the second laughed, and the third swore that the trick could not be done, had never been done, and that only the amazing credulity of the Occident nurtures the rumor.\"\n\nIn 1934 the Occult Committee of The Magic Circle, convinced the trick did not exist, offered a large reward to anyone who could perform it in the open air.\n\nThe American magician Robert Heger claimed to have perfected the trick over 20 years and would demonstrate it to an audience on stage in Saint Paul, Minnesota. He claimed he would perform in London to The Magic Circle if his demonstration was successful. However, his demonstration was a failure as the boy who climbed the rope was observed by the audience to have swung to the end of another rope behind a curtain.\n\nA man named \"Karachi\" (real name Arthur Claude Darby), a British performer based in Plymouth, endeavoured to perform the trick with his son, \"Kyder\", on 7 January 1935 on a field in Wheathampstead, Hertfordshire. After being granted four days to prepare the site, the presentation was filmed by Gaumont British Films. His son could climb the rope but did not disappear, and Karachi was not paid. The Occult Committee demanded the trick must include the disappearance of the boy.\n\nIn 1935, Karachi sent a challenge to the skeptics, for 200 guineas to be deposited with a neutral party who would decide if the rope trick was performed satisfactorily. His terms were that the rope shall rise up through his hands while in a sitting posture, to a height of ten feet, his son Kyder would then climb the rope and remain at the top for a minimum of 30 seconds and be photographed. The rope would be an ordinary rope supplied by a well-known manufacturer and would be examined. The place could be any open area chosen by the neutral party and agreed to by the conjurers, and the spectators could be anywhere in front of the carpet on which Karachi would be seated. The conjurers of the Occult Committee refused to accept Karachi's terms.\n\nIn 1936, Jasper Maskelyne stated that he had \"perfected half of an Indian rope-trick\", he could make the rope rise into the air in an open space and have a boy climb it but could not make the boy disappear. Maskelyne never demonstrated his method but offered £2,000 to anyone who could perform the full trick in open space. Nobody ever claimed this reward and he considered the full trick to be a myth, never successfully demonstrated.\n\nIn 1950, John Booth offered a reward of 25,000 rupees to any conjuror in India who could successfully demonstrate the trick. Many other rewards have been offered but all went unclaimed.\n\nIn 1996, \"Nature\" published \"Unraveling the Indian Rope Trick\", by Richard Wiseman and Peter Lamont. Wiseman found at least 50 eyewitness accounts of the trick performed during the late 19th/early 20th centuries, and variations included: \n\nAccounts collected by Wiseman did not have any single account describing severing of the limbs of the magician's assistant. Perhaps more importantly, he found the more spectacular accounts were only given when the incident lay decades in the past. It is conceivable that in the witnesses' memory the rope trick merged with the basket trick.\n\nCiting their work, historian Mike Dash wrote in 2000:\nIn 2008, a neuroscience paper suggested that the Indian rope trick may have \"partially resulted from the misinformation effect.\"\n\nIn his book on the topic, Peter Lamont claimed the story of the trick resulted from a hoax created by John Elbert Wilkie while working at the \"Chicago Tribune\". Under the name \"Fred S. Ellmore\" (\"Fred Sell More\") Wilkie wrote of the trick in 1890, gaining the \"Tribune\" wide publicity. About four months later, the \"Tribune\" printed a retraction and proclaimed the story a hoax. The retraction received little attention, and in the following years many claimed to remember having seen the trick as far back as the 1870s. According to Lamont, none of these stories proved credible, but with every repetition the story became more widely believed despite being only a myth.\n\nLamont also claimed that no mention appears in writing before the 1890 article. He argued that Ibn Battuta did report a magic trick with a thong, and Jahangir with a chain, not a rope, and the tricks they described are different from the \"classic\" Indian rope trick. He said that the descriptions of the trick in Yule's editions (1870s) of Marco Polo's book are not in the body of the work, but in a footnote by Yule, and only refer to these non-classic accounts.\n\nLamont's popular but controversial work dismissed the accounts such as Shankara's and Melton's as irrelevant to his theme. This is because his book is not really about the trick itself, but about what he called the 20th-century legend of it being Indian, the fame of the trick, which peaked in the 1930s. It is this fame, chapter 8 of his book claimed, which originated from Wilkie's hoax.\n\nThe magician John Nevil Maskelyne in 1912 reported a possible explanation for the trick from a witness to whom he had spoken. It was suggested that the position of the Sun was crucial to the trick:\n\nThe jugglers brought a coil of what appeared to be a large rope. As they uncoiled it and held it up it became stiff ; it was evidently jointed bamboo with the joints made to lock. It was covered to look like a rope, and it formed a pole about thirty feet long. A diminutive boy, not much larger than an Indian monkey, climbed up to the top of the pole and was out of sight of the audience unless they bent forward and looked beneath the awning, when the sun shone in their eyes and blinded them. As soon as the boy was at the top of the pole the jugglers made a great shouting, declaring he had vanished. He quickly slid down the pole and fell on the ground behind the juggler who held the rope. Another juggler threw a cloth over the boy and pretended that he was dead. After considerable tom-tomming and incantation the boy began to move, and was eventually restored to life.\n\nIn 1935, Harry Price suggested that a strong sun and jointed rope could explain the trick. He translated an article by the German magician Erik Jan Hanussen who claimed to have observed the secret to the trick in a village near Babylon. According to Hanussen the spectators were positioned in front of a blazing sun and the \"rope\" was actually made from the vertebrae of a sheep covered with sailing cord that was twisted into a solid pole. A \"smoke producing preparation\", combined with the blinding sun, gave the illusion of disappearance for the boy.\n\nWill Goldston who was mostly skeptical, wrote that a possible explanation for the illusion of the suspended rope may have been a bamboo rod, covered with rope. Others such as P. C. Sorcar have suggested that a long horizontal thread or wire was used to support the rope. Joseph Dunninger has revealed methods of how the suspended rope could be performed by camera trickery.\n\nAnalyzing old eyewitness reports, Jim McKeague explained how poor, itinerant conjuring troupes could have performed the trick using known magical techniques. If a ball of cord is thrown upwards, one end being retained in the hand, the ball rapidly decreases in size as it rises. As it unwinds completely the illusion of the ball disappearing into the sky is striking, especially if the pale cord is similar in color to any overcast cloud. Before the cord has time to fall the climber leaps up, pretending to climb, but really being lifted by a companion. Skilled acrobats could make this quick \"climb\" look very effective until the climber's feet are at or even above the lifter's head. Then a noisy distraction from other members of the troupe is the misdirection needed which allows the climber to drop unseen to the ground and hide. This type of \"vanishing by misdirection\" is reported as having been used very effectively by a performer of the basket trick in the 1870s.\n\nThe lifter continues to look upwards and holds a conversation with the \"climber\" using ventriloquism to create the illusion that a person is still high in the air and is just passing out of sight. By now there is no cord or climber in the air, only an illusory climber as Shankara described (see above under \"accounts\"). Ventriloquism is quite capable of producing this remarkable effect, and a report from near Darjeeling by a school headmaster who witnessed the trick states specifically that ventriloquism was used. As to the falling of the pieces of the climber, according to an Indian Barrister-at-Law who saw a performance about 1875 which included this feature, it appears to have been produced very largely by acting and sound effects. When a magician acts out the \"visible\" catch of an \"imaginary\" deck of cards thrown by a spectator, or throws a ball in the air where it vanishes, the appearance or disappearance really occurs at the location of the magician's hand, but to most spectators (two out of three in actual testing) the magic appears to occur in mid-air. McKeague explained the falling body parts as being produced by much the same acting technique. He explained Melton's account of seeing the limbs \"creep together again\" (see above under \"accounts\") as being the result of contortionists' techniques.\n\nIt has always been the outdoor disappearance of the climber, away from trees and structures, which has led to claims the illusion is \"humanly impossible\". McKeague's explanation not only solves the mystery of the mid-air disappearance but also provides an alternative explanation for the Wiseman-Lamont observation discussed above that eyewitness reports were more impressive when much time had elapsed. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries as the fame of the trick increased performers would have had increasing difficulty in puzzling audiences with it, until finally the disappearance of the climber ceased to be a feature and the rare witness who had seen it spoke of a time long before. This is because misdirection of attention is extremely unlikely to be effective when the audience is expecting the disappearance, a fact which also explains why no one could claim any reward for a performance where it was specified the disappearance must be included. The increasing fame of the rope trick and the basket trick ended the possibility of using \"vanishing by misdirection\" in the methodologies for both tricks.\n\nJohn Keel reports that he was told the secret of the trick in 1955 from an aged mystic who claimed to have performed it in the past. A horizontal wire is stretched above the site, anchored at ground points of higher elevation, rather than obvious nearby structures. The rope has a weighted hook, and an invisible thread which is draped over the wire above; when the rope is tossed upward the thread is used to pull it and hook it in place. The magician wears loose baggy clothing, in which are concealed the \"body parts\" that he tosses down. The boy then conceals himself inside the magician's voluminous outer garment, and clings to him as the magician climbs down seemingly alone. Keel describes his public attempt to perform a simpler version, but failing badly, according to \"two articles and a cartoon that appeared in Indian newspapers.\" \n\nPenn & Teller examined the trick while filming their three-part CBC mini-series, \"Penn & Teller's Magic and Mystery Tour\". According to that miniseries, the tour travelled the world investigating historical tricks, and while in India they travelled to Agra where they recreated the trick.\n\nPenn and Teller invited two British tourists shopping nearby to see what they claimed was a fakir performing the trick. As they walked back, an assistant ran up and claimed the fakir was in the midst of the trick, so they rushed the rest of the way so they wouldn't miss it. As the witnesses neared the room they dropped a thick rope from a balcony. The witnesses saw what they thought was the end of the trick, the rope falling as if it had been in mid-air seconds before. A sheet was then removed from a boy with fake blood at his neck and shoulders, hinting that his limbs and head had been reattached to his torso. According to their account, the rumour that a British couple had witnessed the trick was heard a few weeks later in England.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247682", "title": "Ă", "text": "Ă\n\nĂ (upper case) or ă (lower case), usually referred to in English as A-breve, is a letter used in standard Romanian language, Vietnamese language and Chuvash language orthographies. In Romanian, it is used to represent the mid-central unrounded vowel, while in Vietnamese it represents the short a sound. It is the second letter of both the Romanian, Vietnamese, and the pre-1972 Malaysian alphabets, after A. \n\nĂ/ă is also used in several languages for transliteration of Bulgarian letter Ъ/ъ.\n\nThe sound represented in Romanian by ă is a mid-central vowel , i.e. schwa. Unlike in English, Catalan and French but like in Indonesian, Bulgarian, Albanian and Afrikaans, the vowel can be stressed. There are words in which it is the only vowel, such as \"măr\" (\"apple\") or \"văd\" (\"I see\"). Additionally, some words that also contain other vowels can have the stress on ă like \"cărțile\" (\"the books\") and \"odăi\" (\"rooms\").\n\nĂ is the 2nd letter of the Vietnamese alphabet and represents . Because Vietnamese is a tonal language this letter may have any one of the 5 tonal symbols above or below it (or even no accent at all, since the Vietnamese first tone is identified by the lack of accent marks). See Vietnamese phonology.\n\n\nThe sound represented in pre-1972 Malaysian orthography by ă is a vowel. It occurred only in the final syllable of the root word such \"mată\" (\"eye\"). The letter was replaced in 1972 with a in the New Rumi Spelling.\nĂ used in Khmer romanization, e.g. \"preăh riăciănaacak kampuciă\" (Kingdom of Cambodia).\n\nIn some systems for Pronunciation respelling for English including American Heritage Dictionary notation, ă represents the short A sound, .\n\n"}
{"id": "2247683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247683", "title": "Polish–Ottoman War (1633–34)", "text": "Polish–Ottoman War (1633–34)\n\nThe Polish–Ottoman War of 1633–1634 was one of the many military conflicts between the Crown of the Kingdom of Poland together with the Grand Duchy of Lithuania (the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth) and the Ottoman Empire and its vassals.\n\nMehmed Abazy was the governor of the Ottoman province of Sylistria (Silistra, today in Bulgaria). In 1632, after the death of the Polish king Sigismund III Vasa, the Tsardom of Russia broke an armistice and started a war with the Commonwealth (Smolensk War 1632–1634). Abazy mobilized his troops and called Moldavian, Wallachian and Nogai Tatar (of the Budjak Horde) as reinforcements. Abazy was ambitious and possibly acted without the sultan's or the grand vizier's knowledge as the Ottoman Empire was deeply involved with a war against the Safavids (1623–1639). The sultan claimed ignorance of Abazy's actions but it's possible that sultan Murad IV secretly agreed to the risky campaign against the Commonwealth.\n\nAround June 29, 1633 a strong Tatar group of the Budjak horde (about 1,000 men) raided the area near the city of Kamieniec Podolski. This raid ended and the Tatars returned to Moldavia with their loot and jasyr. Meanwhile, the Commonwealth commander, Hetman Stanisław Koniecpolski was in Bar and moved immediately in pursuit with 2,000 cavalry when the news reached him. The hetman crossed Dniestr river and entered the Ottoman-controlled territory of Moldavia, which had been the theatre of the previous Commonwealth-Ottoman war just a few decades earlier (the Moldavian Magnate Wars). The Tatars probably thought they were safe and slowed down thus allowing the hetman to catch up to them on July 4 near Sasowy Róg at the river Prut. Several dozen Tatars were killed and captured, the rest dispersed. Among the captives were several high-ranking Tatars and Khan Temir's son-in-law (Khan Temir, Kantymir – chief of Budjak Horde, a well known and ferocious Nogai Tatar leader). Most of the loot, all captives, cattle and horses were recovered.\n\nKoniecpolski, who had an extensive spy network through the region and was responsible for much of the Commonwealth foreign policy there, had probably known about Abazy's plans at this moment. He returned to the left bank of Dniestr, started the construction of a fortified camp near Kamieniec Podolski (an important city and a strong fortress in the Podolia region) and called for reinforcement of about 3,000 regular troops in his disposition: Cossacks and private troops of magnates (about 8,000 men). Abazy started his march in the second half of September with Ottoman troops from his province, vassal troops and about 5,000–10,000 Tatars, including almost the whole Budjak horde led by Kantymir. In mid-October he was near Chocim (Khotyn) and learned about Koniecpolski's preparations. Abazy started negotiations, probably wanting to outmanoeuver Koniecpolski by diplomacy. It is possible that he got news about the sultan's increasing dissatisfaction, and decided to hurry his plans. Abazy crossed the Dniestr about October 20. Kantymir started his attacks on October 20 and continued during the next day. On October 22 Abazy attacked with his full forces but was repelled with heavy losses and ordered a retreat. It can only be speculated whether he got orders from Constantinople (Istanbul), if he did not believe that he could defeat Koniecpolski, or if he heard the false news that more Cossack reinforcements were coming to aid Koniecpolski.\n\nIn next year a full war with the Ottoman Empire was close (according to one source, the sultan created a huge army, while according to others, it was close to being formed); however the sultan suffered from another failure: his vassal, khan of Crimea Canibek Giray (also known as Janibek or Dzhanibek), had decided to attack Muscovy. Muscovite troops were fighting with Polish troops, then-Polish Ukraine was bolstered by Cossacks and Koniecpolski's troops, and many times Tatars themselves offered to the Commonwealth to raid Muscovy in exchange for “gifts” (or were sent “gifts” to do so). An army of Tartars, approximately 20,000 strong, attacked Muscovy in 1632, and again in 1633 in even larger numbers. Attacks continued until 1637. In June 1634, Tatars operated in the area of Kursk, Orel, and Mtsensk. A year later they attacked the Lesser Nogai Horde and Azov Horde. In 1636 Crimean Tatars attacked again and the Greater Nogai horde changed their allegiance to Crimea. The southern defenses were destroyed and the country was depopulated (the number of jasyr captives sold in Crimea is estimated at 10,000). Russian historians accuse the Poles of coordinating their attacks with those of Tatars.\n\nMeanwhile, Commonwealth victories against Muscovy (Shein had forced a capitulation near Smolensk in February 1634 while further plundering of Muscovite lands by Cossacks, the Commonwealth troops, and Tatars continued) caused the tsar to decide to seek peace with the Polish new king, Władysław IV. A new peace treaty in Polanowo (or Polanówko, called \"pokój polanowski\" in Polish) was signed in June 1634. The terms of the previous treaty were confirmed and in exchange for a large amount of money Władysław resigned the tsar title. After that Władysław went south with some of his troops to Ukraine.\n\nIn September 1634 about 29,000 Commonwealth soldiers were concentrated near Kamieniec Podolski. These included expanded regular troops of Koniecpolski (6,500 including wybraniecka infantry), 5,500 infantry and dragoons that came with the king from Smolensk, private troops of magnates and mercenaries hired by provinces. Commonwealth forces were making preparations for war, the Smoleńsk campaign showing that the Polish infantry reform program had succeeded. New reforms in artillery were introduced, which resulted in creation of new centers of cannon-making, and additionally Cossacks could be mobilized. The whole situation changed dramatically: instead of opening a second front and attack on the soft belly of a desperate Commonwealth, the sultan would have to confront the entire power of a victorious king. In order to explain the previous year's “misunderstandings,” the sultan sent his envoy Chavush Shaheen aga to Warsaw, blamed Abazy, and promised to punish him. Abazy tried to hide or cover his failure by sending the sultan rich gifts; however, he was called to Istanbul and sentenced to death.\n\nThe peace treaty was extended, and the sultan promised to displace the Budjak horde but never did so. Additionally Abazy was “relieved” and the new governor of Silistria received orders not to make any mischief. In 1635 Murad IV started a war with Persia, conquered Azerbaijan, occupied Tabriz, and captured Baghdad in 1638.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247689", "title": "The Devil and Daniel Mouse", "text": "The Devil and Daniel Mouse\n\nThe Devil and Daniel Mouse is a 1978 Canadian animated Halloween television special, produced by Canadian animation studio Nelvana Ltd. It is based on the 1936 Stephen Vincent Benét short story \"The Devil and Daniel Webster\".\n\nThe story is about two struggling mouse musicians, Daniel and Jan. When they are fired from their latest gig (their music is deemed too old-fashioned and not with the times), Daniel goes to pawn his guitar in order to buy groceries. Jan wanders off on her own and encounters a shifty reptilian character in a white suit who introduces himself as \"B.L. Zebub\", a record producer.\n\nHe and his weasel assistant, Weez Weezel, offer her fame and fortune in exchange for signing a contract in her own blood. Jan does not read the fine print and trusts B.L., signing herself over to his record production company. Little does she suspect that B.L. is none other than the devil himself, and at midnight at the height of her fame he will return to collect her soul. To assist her, Weez conjures three band members from thin air, a rabbit (Rabbit Delight), a beaver (Boom Boom Beaver), and a praying mantis (Pray Mantis).\n\nAs the lead singer of \"Funky Jan and the Animal Kingdom\", Jan is soon the most popular rock star on the planet, while the oblivious Daniel is left out in the cold. But when B.L. comes for her soul and she realizes what she has done, a distraught Jan goes to Daniel for help. A trial is held in the woods that night over Jan's soul, with Weez as the judge and Daniel acting as Jan's attorney. As an additional stipend, the Devil states that should Daniel lose the trial, his soul, as well as Jan's, will be taken as payment. At first, the trial seems hopeless, considering Daniel has no education as a lawyer and cannot present even the beginnings of a reasonable argument to release Jan.\n\nHaving nothing else to offer, Daniel begins to sing a heartfelt song. Jan joins in, as do her three heretofore unhelpful band members. The other animals watching the trial begin to sing and clap along to the tune and so do the jury of three lost souls. An enraged devil attempts to summon forth demons to stop the heroes, but the spirits he conjures also fall prey to the sway of Daniel's music.\n\nA frustrated devil finally leaves, returning to Hell and taking Weez and all of his other minions with him. The two mice embrace one another as the film ends.\n\nThe Nelvana logo made its first appearance at the end of the film.\n\n\nA tie-in story LP record was released by Nelvana Records in 1978.' Narrated by John Sebastian, the album features dialog lifted straight from the film's soundtrack as well as songs performed by Sebastian, Valerie Carter (credited as Laurel Runn) and the Reggie Knighton Band. As in the film, the dialogue is interspersed with several of the songs.\n\nFirst published by Avon/Camelot in 1979, the storybook was written by screenwriter Ken Sobol and features music and lyrics for three John Sebastian penned songs (\"I've Got a Song\", \"Can You Help Me Find My Song?\" and \"Look Where the Music Can Take You\"). Simplified for younger readers, many of the visual gags and a few scenes were omitted from the book.\n\n\"The Devil and Daniel Mouse\" was simultaneously issued as a stand-alone title on Betamax and VHS as well as featured on several compilations of Nelvana's TV specials.\n\nThe first and more widely available compilation to feature the film was \"Nelvanamation (Volume 1)\". Also featured on this video are \"Romie-0 and Julie-8\", \"Intergalactic Thanksgiving\" and \"A Cosmic Christmas\".\n\nHeadlining a collection similar to \"Nelvanamation\", this CED Videodisc also includes \"Romie-0 and Julie-8\", \"Easter Fever\", \"Intergalactic Thanksgiving\" and \"A Cosmic Christmas\".\n\n\"The Devil and Daniel Mouse\" became the inspiration for Nelvana's first feature film, \"Rock & Rule\". The film and \"How We Made the Devil and Daniel Mouse\", a vintage \"making of\" documentary, were both included on the two-DVD and Blu-ray versions of that film in a slightly edited form of 22 minutes from its original 25-minute running time.\n\nDialogue from this cartoon was used by the rock band Bauhaus in the song \"Party of the First Part\", found on some versions of \"The Sky's Gone Out\" and 1989's \"\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247691", "title": "Brothel creeper", "text": "Brothel creeper\n\nBrothel creepers (sometimes shortened to creepers) are a style of shoe which has thick crepe soles, often in combination with suede uppers. This style of footwear became fashionable in the years following World War II, seeing resurgences of popularity at various times ever since.\n\nA version of this style of shoe became popular with World War II soldiers in North Africa, who adopted suede boots with hard-wearing crepe rubber. Writing in \"The Observer\" in 1991, John Ayto put the origin of the name 'brothel creeper' to the wartime years. The Smithsonian suggests the crepe in the thick sole may have given the shoes the title creeper. It may also be associated with a Ken Mackintosh dance tune popular in 1953 and called \"The Creep\".\n\nThis style of thick soled shoe was first developed commercially in 1949 by George Cox Limited of Wellingborough, Northamptonshire, UK, and marketed under the \"Hamilton\" name, based on George Cox Jr.'s middle name. Initially they came in shades of blue, ranging from pastel shades to electric blue, and were made of suede or polished leather. Later, more extravagant patterned versions were created.\n\nThe shoes were taken up by the Teddy Boys– along with drainpipe trousers worn with exposed socks and drape jackets. The shoes were also widely worn by the Ton-Up boys of the 1950s and later on the rockers of the '60s, who wore them as an alternative shoe when not riding their motorbikes.\n\nThe stilyagi (Russian: \"стиляги\") youth subculture in the Soviet Union of the mid 1950s adopted home-made brothel creepers as footwear, dubbing them \"shoes on semolina\" (\"ботинки на манной каше\") alluding to the sponginess of the thick crepe sole.\n\nThe brothel creeper regained popularity in the early 1970s when Malcolm McLaren sold them from his \"Let it Rock\" shop in London's King's Road, then later in the early 1980s when NaNa's of Los Angeles manufactured and sold them from their shop in Santa Monica. Teddy Boys were the obvious customers, but the brothel creeper still proved to be popular among regular customers when McLaren and his partner Vivienne Westwood changed the shop to more rocker-oriented fashion.\n\nThe shoe has since been adopted by subcultures such as indie, ska, punk, new wavers, psychobilly, greasers and goth, Japanese Visual Kei, and was worn by Bananarama, and Saffron, singer of Republica.\n\nA resurgence in popularity of grunge culture in 2011 saw popular artists such as Miley Cyrus and Carly Rae Jepsen wearing them.\n\nIn November 2017, Jefferson Hack teamed up with British brand Underground to launch a limited edition collection of Apollo brothel creepers taken from its archives spanning the last thirty years. The collection comprised seven classic all gender styles.\n\nIn 2015, Puma and Rihanna launched a collaborative shoe line called the Puma Creeper. The shoes have been a major success for the brand, and won an award for Shoe of the Year in 2016. Since the initial launch, there have been new styles and colorways of the shoe released each year.\n"}
{"id": "2247693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247693", "title": "Brachypodium sylvaticum", "text": "Brachypodium sylvaticum\n\nBrachypodium sylvaticum, commonly known as false-brome, slender false brome or wood false brome, is a perennial grass native to Europe, Asia and Africa. It has a broad native range stretching from North Africa to Eurasia.\n\nThe bunchgrass is most commonly found in forests and woodlands, preferring the shaded canopy, but may grow in open areas. It prefers well drained neutral and calcerous soils, and avoids wet conditions.\n\n\"Brachypodium sylvaticum\" is a tall tufted perennial bunchgrass that grows up to about a high.\n\nThe drooping leaf blade of the plant is dark green, or bright-yellow green, flat and up to 12 mm wide with a fringe of hairs surrounding the edge of the leaf. The leaves do not have auricles. The leaf blade is joined to the hollow culm by the leaf sheath. This hairy sheath is open and surrounds the culm. The culm is pilose (long, soft, hairy), and typically has 4 to 5 nodes. The ligules are blunt, long.\n\nThe grass has drooping narrow long spikelets of flowers on very short pedicels. The flower head is long, the plant flowering in July and August. Its awns are straight and long, projecting out of the end of the spikelets.\n\nIts seeds can be dispersed by wildlife and humans. The caterpillars of some Lepidoptera use it as a foodplant, e.g. the chequered skipper (\"Carterocephalus palaemon\") and the Essex skipper (\"Thymelicus lineola\").\n\nThe grass is an introduced species in North America. \"Brachypodium sylvaticum\" is an invasive species colonizing new areas and outcompeting native plants. As this species has spread to the Pacific Northwest of the U.S. it has demonstrated a capability of dominating forest understories and open grasslands to the exclusion of all other flora found in those areas.\n\nRecent observations suggest that populations at the leading edge of the expanding range undergo an establishment phase before they can contribute to the local invasion, perhaps because newly colonized populations are suffering from inbreeding depression.\n\n\"Brachypodium sylvaticum\" is a newly invasive brome species in Oregon that is rapidly expanding in the Pacific Northwest. Although \"B. sylvaticum\" appears to be in the early phases of invasion in North America, it has become a noxious weed throughout the Willamette Valley area of Oregon in the last 20 years. It is speculated that \"B. sylvaticum\" was first introduced to Oregon in range experiments when accessions from the native range were planted at two locations in the Willamette Valley anywhere between 70 and 80 years ago.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247697", "title": "Ali bin Hussein (disambiguation)", "text": "Ali bin Hussein (disambiguation)\n\nAli bin Hussein is an Arabic name with some having the given name Ali and being the son of Hussein. It may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2247707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247707", "title": "Charles F. Hoffmann", "text": "Charles F. Hoffmann\n\nCharles Frederick Hoffmann (February 1838 – June 20, 1913) was a German-American topographer working in California U.S. from 1860 to 1880.\n\nHoffmann was born in Frankfurt, Germany in February 1838. After receiving an education in engineering, he emigrated to America. In 1857 he was topographer for Frederick Lander's survey to the Rocky Mountains. He came to California in 1858. He was recruited by Josiah Whitney to join the California Geological Survey because of his valuable skill as a topographer. Hoffmann is largely responsible for introducing topography to the United States. He helped explore the Sierra Nevada of California, from 1860 through 1870, and 1873 through 1874. As a member of the Survey, Hoffmann created the official maps from the expeditions made by the survey team. Hoffmann achieved a number of first ascents in the Sierra Nevada:\n\nIn 1870 he married Lucy Mayotta Browne. In 1871 and 1872 he was Professor of Topographical Engineering at Harvard University. Later, he was a mining engineer at Virginia City, Nevada, San Francisco, California, and Mexico.\nCharles Hoffmann died in Oakland, California on June 20, 1913.\n\nMount Hoffmann, a high peak in central Yosemite National Park, is named after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247711", "title": "Regina (martyr)", "text": "Regina (martyr)\n\nSaint Regina (\"Regnia\", ) (3rd century) was a virgin martyr and saint of the Catholic Church. Regina was born in Autun, France, to a pagan named Clement. Her mother died at her birth and her father placed her with a Christian nurse who baptized her. Regina helped out by tending the sheep. She communed with God in prayer and meditated on the lives of the saints. At the age of fifteen, she was betrothed to the proconsul Olybrius, but refused to renounce her faith to marry him, for which she was tortured and was beheaded at Alesia in the diocese of Autun, called Alise-Sainte-Reine after her.\n\nHer martyrdom is considered to have occurred either during the persecution of Decius, in 251, or under Maximian in 286.\n\nHonored in many Martyrologies, Regina's feast is celebrated on 7 September or in the Archdiocese of Paderborn on 20 June. In the past, a procession was held in her honor in the town of Dijon. However, her relics were transferred to Flavigny Abbey in 827. The history of the translation of Regina was the subject of a 9th-century account.\n\nThere are many places in France named Sainte-Reine after her.\n"}
{"id": "2247716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247716", "title": "List of Eritreans", "text": "List of Eritreans\n\nThe following is a list of notable Eritreans.\n\n\n\n\nTemestgen Andott\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247717", "title": "Dorf Clark Industries", "text": "Dorf Clark Industries\n\nDorf Clark Industries Limited (commonly Dorf) is a division of GWA International Ltd and is an Australian manufacturer of taps & accessories, stainless sinks and tubs & commercial products. Dorf has a major manufacturing facility in Penrith, New South Wales and has sales offices in across Australia and New Zealand. Dorf also has agents in the Pacific Islands, South East Asia, Canada and the USA.\n\nCaroma Dorf was formed in 2006 by GWA International Limited as the Bathroom Fixtures and Sanitaryware business, which is now home to a number of well-known brands including Dorf, Caroma, Fowler, Irwell, Stylus, Clark, Epure and Radiant.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247719", "title": "Enallagma cyathigerum", "text": "Enallagma cyathigerum\n\nEnallagma cyathigerum (common blue damselfly, common bluet, or northern bluet) is a species found mainly between latitudes 40°N and 72°N. The species can reach a length of 32 to 35 mm (1.3 to 1.4 in). It is common in many different countries including Russia, Europe and South Korea. Damselflies are an important link between the health of the aquatic ecosystem and its response to climate change.\n\nThese damselflies inhabit freshwater bodies whose conditions range, they have been seen in acidic fens as well as eutrophic ponds. They have been considered one of the more sensitive insects in an aquatic setting. They are important within the trophic levels as they are an intermediate predator. They consume smaller larvae and they are preyed on by fish and larvae bigger than them.\n\nThe larvae prefer a habitat that has a more complex structure in the ground composition as well as the plants. The larval stages spend most of their time within the plants, climbing and feeding. Although they do prefer a more complex habitat, they can also be found in habitats with simpler vegetation. They are efficient in both complexities equally, but the complex vegetation also serves as protection from fish.\n\nThese larvae are able to live in a dense population in shallow areas of water without showing signs of competition between the larvae. The damselfly larvae require a plant structure that can withstand the backward movement that occurs when the labium protracts to catch food.\n\nThe males of this species are a cerulean blue color with black markings, while the females have a larger variation in their coloring.\n\nWithin females there are a few different morphs in which they can take, andromorph and heteromorph. Andromorphic females resemble the cerulean blue males, but they have more black patterning on their bodies. The heteromorphic females are more of a brown or green brown color and do not resemble the males at all. The reasoning behind the different morphs is to attempt to limit the amount of attention the female receives when she is near the water for reproduction.\n\nThe common blue damselfly can be easily mistaken for the azure damselfly (\"Coenagrion puella\"), but on the back and the thorax, the common blue damselfly has more blue than black; for the azure damselfly it is the other way around. The second segment of the thorax has a distinctive spot with a line below connecting to the third segment.\n\nAnother difference can be observed when inspecting the side of the thorax. The common blue damselfly has only one small black stripe there, while all other blue damselflies have two.\n\nThe lifecycle of this species begins in freshwater, they spend most of their time as larvae. The larval stage depends on the temperature, light, and the resource level. Once the temperatures drop the larvae can go into a state called diapause instead of dying. The damselflies that endure diapause effect the body size for the next season. Since these damselflies are flexible, they have two different lifecycles depending on latitude univoltine or semivoltine. The more north these damselflies are found, the more likely they are to be semivoltine. By being able to shift the lifecycle due to the conditions this allows for twice the amount of development time, so larger adults are typically found in more northern areas.\n\nOnce the larvae emerge as adults between May to August they have a brief time to feed before they are to find a mate and reproduce the next generation of larvae. . Once emerged, there is an estimated sex ratio of 1:1 within the colony, allows for mating within the colony to be less of a competition.\n\nDuring mating, the male clasps the female by her neck while she bends her body around to his reproductive organs – this is called a mating wheel. The pair flies together over the water and eggs are laid within a suitable plant, just below the surface.\n\nThe eggs hatch and the larvae, called nymphs, live in the water and feed on small aquatic animals. Nymphs climb out of the water up a suitable stem to molt into damselflies.\n\nAll \"Coenagrionid\" larvae have a broad range in diet, so they can live in so many different habitats. The larvae are able to eat relatively large prey items, but the prey are typically less mobile and therefore easier to catch. The males in the colony show a higher mobility level compared to other species. There has also been pairings with \"Ischnura elegans\" and \"Coenagrion puella\" which are similar to \"Enallagma\", although this occurs when there is same species mates are unable to be located. This is to ensure a larval lifecycle to occur each season.\n\nThis damselfly requires a close look for a beginner to distinguish them from an azure damselfly. Typically, they fly low through the reeds and often fly well out over the water, unlike azure damselflies. They are also a brighter blue.\n\nThe mitogenome was sequenced for this species. The circular DNA sequence is 16,661 base pairs long. Within the order \"Odonata\" it is one of the largest mitogenomes to be sequenced thus far. The composition of the sequence is 74.2% adenine and thymine and 25.8% cytosine and guanine. This knowledge assists with the placement within a phylogenetic tree.\n\nPesticides have a large impact on this species due to its sensitivity. These pesticides are introduced to the water by runoff and by being added directly. Being exposed to pesticides made these organisms less likely to be successful in metamorphosis with the effects being worse the longer the organism is exposed. The exposure to the larvae has effects on the adult life stage in regard to their fitness Behaviour is lessened by the introduction of pesticides.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247725", "title": "T. E. D. Klein", "text": "T. E. D. Klein\n\nTheodore \"Eibon\" Donald Klein (born July 15, 1947) is an American horror writer and editor.\n\nKlein has published very few works, but they have all achieved positive notice for their meticulous construction and subtle use of horror: critic S. T. Joshi writes, \"In close to 25 years of writing Klein has only two books and a handful of scattered tales to his credit, and yet his achievement towers gigantically over that of his more prolific contemporaries.\"\n\nKlein was born and lives in New York City and attended Brown University, where he wrote his honors thesis on H. P. Lovecraft, edited \"The Brown Daily Herald\", and graduated Phi Beta Kappa in 1969. In the 1970s, he studied film history at Columbia University, wrote short fiction and non-fiction, and worked as a movie script reader for Paramount Pictures.\n\nIn 1975, Klein, with a few others, conceived the idea of a World Fantasy Convention. The first such convention was held in Providence, Rhode Island, in honour of the life and work of H.P. Lovecraft. Klein's story \"The Events at Poroth Farm\" was a nominee for Best Short Fiction at the convention. (The story is reprinted in Gahan Wilson, ed. \"First World Fantasy Awards\". Doubleday, 1977, pp. 97–135, and in the Library of America's \"American Fantastic Tales: Terror and the Uncanny from Poe to Now\", edited by Peter Straub.)\n\nHe was the editor of \"Twilight Zone\" magazine from its inception in 1981 until 1985, and served as editor of the short-lived true crime magazine \"CrimeBeat\" from 1991 to 1993. He has also taught English at New York's John Jay College and been a longtime supporter of animal rights.\n\nHe added \"Eibon\" to his name – a reference to Clark Ashton Smith's Hyperborean wizard – so that when he used his initials in his byline, a la H. P. Lovecraft or M. R. James, they would spell out his nickname \"Ted\".\n\nKlein has blamed his limited output of fiction on writer's block. He revealed in the book \"Faces of Fear\" (1985) that he had struggled with \"The Ceremonies\" for more than five years before finally finishing it, adding: \"I'm one of those people who will do anything to avoid writing. Anything!\" \n\nOn November 3, 1995, Klein attended the graveside ceremony at Woodlawn Cemetery to mark the passing of writer Frank Belknap Long.\n\nHe first attracted notice with the short story \"The Events at Poroth Farm\" (1972), in which a college lecturer, isolated in the countryside and reading horror literature for teaching in the next semester, gradually realises that genuine supernatural horror is taking place around him. The story is notable for the insidious way in which the narrator's responses to the works he is reading (including those of Charles Robert Maturin, Ann Radcliffe, \"Monk\" Lewis, Sheridan Le Fanu, Bram Stoker, Aleister Crowley, and Shirley Jackson) are conflated with his impressions of the supernatural threat.\n\nIn 1984 Klein published the novel \"The Ceremonies\", which uses the same basic plot as the novella to more expansive ends; the threat this time is not to one man or one community, but to the entire world. \"The Ceremonies\" takes up and elaborates upon some of the mysteries of Arthur Machen's story \"The White People\" and is called \"a modern classic\" in an essay by Thomas F. Monteleone in the book \"Horror: 100 Best Books\". \"The Ceremonies\" is described by Stephen King as \"Wonderful, exciting and suspenseful, full of tension and a sense of deep brooding mystery\", \"the most exciting novel in the field to come along since Straub's \"Ghost Story\"\". A revised edition was published by PS Publishing in 2017.\n\nA second novel, \"Nighttown\", was announced by Klein soon afterwards and described by him as \"a paranoid horror novel set entirely in New York City\", but it has not appeared in all the years since.\n\nIn 1985 Klein published the collection \"Dark Gods\", which includes four novellas: \n\nHis previously unpublished short story \"Growing Things\" was collected in the 1999 anthology \"999\".\n\nHe has penned two critical essays on weird fiction: \"Dr Van Helsing's Handy Guide to Ghost Stories\" (1981), a series of articles for \"Twilight Zone\" magazine; and \"Raising Goosebumps for Fun and Profit\" (1988), originally written for \"Writer's Digest\". As a critic, Klein was influential in encouraging the early career of Ramsey Campbell via an extensive review of his work up to the time of\" Demons by Daylight\" which was published in \"Nyctalops\" magazine.\n\nIn 2019, the Hippocampus Press published a collection of Klein's various essays, articles, and op-ed pieces entitled \"Providence After Dark and Other Writings\" (edited by S. T. Joshi).\n\nThe novella \"Nadelman's God\" won the 1986 World Fantasy Award for Best Novella. In 2012, Klein received the World Horror Convention's Grand Master Award.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247727", "title": "Marcus Garvey (album)", "text": "Marcus Garvey (album)\n\nMarcus Garvey is the third album by the reggae group Burning Spear, released in 1975 on Fox Records in Jamaica and then internationally on Island Records later in the year. The album is named after the Jamaican National Hero and Rastafari movement prophet Marcus Garvey. A dub version of it was released four months later as \"Garvey's Ghost\".\n\nThis was the first album by the group recorded for producer Lawrence Lindo, better known by his handle taken from the assassin of Lee Harvey Oswald, Jack Ruby. Apparently, Lindo and vocalist Winston Rodney realized the opening track to this album, \"Marcus Garvey\", on their first meeting. Island Records, whose founder Chris Blackwell had been instrumental in breaking Jamaican reggae artists Jimmy Cliff, Toots and the Maytals, and Bob Marley to an international audience, then made a deal to release it internationally, but believed the original Jamaican mix of the album to be too threatening, or at least too commercially unviable, for white audiences and therefore remixed it into what they considered a more palatable form, outraging the group. The Jamaican release also does not include the final track, \"Resting Place\", which had only been issued as a single there. The backing musicians, whom Lindo named the Black Disciples, had been assembled from the Soul Syndicate and the Wailers.\n\nOn July 27, 2010, this album was remastered and released by Universal's Hip-O Records reissue imprint in tandem with the dub version on one compact disc.\n\nThe album was listed in the 1999 book \"The Rough Guide: Reggae: 100 Essential CDs\".\n\n\"All tracks written by Winston Rodney and Phillip Fullwood except as indicated.\"\n\n\nEd Ward in a 1976 review in \"Rolling Stone\" felt that the music was rootsy and compelling, but that it wouldn't be understood by American audiences, and that the lead song about Marcus Garvey wouldn't make sense to anyone who didn't know Jamaican culture.\n\nRobert Christgau felt that it was the most African-sounding and most political reggae album to be released in America at the time.\n\nJo-Ann Greene in an Allmusic retrospective summary feels that the album was a significant recording in roots reggae, though regrets that Island subsidiary Mango remixed the album too commercially, diluting some of the \"haunting atmospheres\" of producer Jack Ruby's original mix.\n\nThe album was included in Robert Dimery's \"1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die\" where Jim Harrington commented that he felt it had \"a poignant blend of religious aspirations and cultural concerns\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247728", "title": "Federico Krutwig", "text": "Federico Krutwig\n\nFederico Krutwig Sagredo (1921–1998) was a Spanish Basque writer, philosopher and politician, author of several books.\n\nAlong with Felix Likiniano, he tried to create some resistance to the Francoist State after the Spanish Civil War. The thought of both authors, melding Basque nationalism and Anarchism gave birth to a minor political current known as \"Anarkoabertzalism\" (Anarcho-independentism), which eventually merged within the hybrid of Marxism and Anarchism known as Autonomism.\n\nFederico Krutwig was born on 15 May 1921 in Getxo, the son of a bourgeois family of German origin. He taught himself the Basque language.\n\nHe joined the Basque-Language Academy in 1943, where he favoured the standardisation of Basque around the Labourdine dialect of the first printed books in Basque, and with an etymological orthography. However, the Academy preferred the Guipuscoan dialect as the basis of Standard Basque. Krutwig's Basque language standardisation proposal was not to be applied beyond the members of the \"Jakintza Baitha\" (\"House of Knowledge\") Hellenophile society.\n\nIn 1952, after rejecting Luis Villasante joining the Basque-Language Academy, and after his criticisms of the position of the Catholic Church in reference to the Basque language, he went into exile in France.\n\nOnce in Donibane-Lohitzune he contacted members of the movement Jagi-Jagi. In 1963 he edited the book \"Vasconia\", in which he questioned part of the traditional Basque nationalism of Sabino Arana and proposed a new Basque nationalism.\n\nKrutwig collaborated with ex-militants of EGI and theorized about the use of violence for political purposes. In 1964 he was expelled from France and moved to Brussels (Belgium). Here he made contact with members of ETA. He elaborated some memoranda for ETA's V at Guethary, and put ETA in contact with the Czech weapon industry.\nIn 1975 he abandoned ETA and established his residency back in Spain in Zarauz, to dedicate himself exclusively to literary production.\n\nHis main writings are:\n\nHe spoke and read several ancient and modern languages. He translated works of Goethe and Mao Zedong into Basque.\n\nKrutwig died in Bilbao in 1998.\n\nThe Basque folk group \"Oskorri\" released an album \"Garaldea\" featuring collaborations with Canarian musicians.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247734", "title": "Renault Avantime", "text": "Renault Avantime\n\nThe Renault Avantime is a grand tourer marketed by the French manufacturer Renault, designed and manufactured by Matra, between 2001 and 2003. As a one-box design without B-pillars, styled by Patrick Le Quément, the Avantime combined the design elements of an MPV, estate or shooting brake with the style of a 2+2 coupé and elements of a convertible. \n\nThe name \"Avantime\" is a portmanteau of the French word \"Avant\" (meaning \"ahead\") and the English word \"time\" — with the latter using the English /taɪm/ rather than French pronunciation /tiːm/.\n\nThe Avantime was designed and developed in-house by Renault affiliate Matra and was conceived by Philippe Guédon, head of the automotive division at Matra, who \"believed that the children of Espace owners remained loyal to the car even after they had grown up and left home. As a result, the renowned estate was gaining a generation of new drivers.\" \n\nStyled by Patrick Le Quément, the Avantime was intended to combine the space of an estate with the four place pillarless qualities of a coupé. Regarding the styling, Thierry Metroz, design project manager, said, \"We wanted someone walking around the car to be continually astonished.\" Anthony Grade, Renault´s vice-president of design said, \"The exterior and interior had to be coherent. Using the Espace as a base, for instance, meant we had the central instrument display, but that´s part of the innovative character of the whole vehicle\". \"Car\" magazine described the interior as architectural and luxurious. The one-box design eliminated B-pillars and featured an aluminium structure, aluminium panels for the greenhouse and a full sunroof of strengthened heat-reflecting glass. The interior featured four seats, each with built in seatbelts, and leather from Bridge of Weir. \n\nTo facilitate access to the rear seats, two long doors featured a double parallel opening hinge system (marketed as \"double kinematic\") that maximized access and minimized the door outswing. Front side windows lowered automatically when either of the front seats folded forward to further facilitate entry to the rear two seats. Windows featured power deployable sunshades, and the H-points of the rear two seats were higher than the forward two seats, giving the Avantime \"theater seating.\" The luggage compartment featured a retaining system using retractable straps, and all Avantimes featured a two-tone look created by the exposed aluminium of the greenhouse. The windows and panoramic sunroof could open automatically via a single headliner-mounted control, to give the Avantime an 'open air' mode. \n\nThe design borrowed the automotive space frame of the first generation Renault Espace (load bearing galvanized structure with non load bearing composite panels) and used Renault's 24 valve, 207 hp (152 kW) 3.0L V6 engine, which was coupled to a six-speed manual transmission or five-speed automatic transmission.\n\nThe Avantime was first shown in February 1999, in concept form at a press launch in the Louvre, and one month later to the public at the Geneva Auto Show — where it was referred to as a \"Coupéspace\" — and went into production two years later, after the subsequent engineering of the pillarless roof to meet safety standards. The Avantime's sales were poor. The car's fortunes were not helped by the introduction of the Renault Vel Satis (another large, upmarket Renault) around the same time. When Matra decided to pull out of the automotive production business in 2003 (partly as a result of the financial loss incurred by the poor sales of the Avantime), Renault chose to discontinue the Avantime rather than move its production elsewhere. 8,557 were built from 2001 to 2003, a figure that makes it one of the worst-selling cars of all time. In 2002, \"Automobile Magazine\" said \"Le Quement is clearly an outside the box thinker, and the product of his vision is a fascinating exercise, but American buyers' utilitarian expectations of the one box shape just don't jibe with the decadence and frivolity of a grand touring coupe.\"\n\nIn November 2008, the Avantime was featured on the British motoring show \"Top Gear\", where the presenters modified the performance of a used Avantime, attempting to lap the test track faster than a Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution X. The Avantime was recognized as one of the few cars that all three presenters, Jeremy Clarkson, Richard Hammond and James May liked, along with the Ford Mondeo and Subaru Legacy.\n"}
{"id": "2247742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247742", "title": "Eston Hemings", "text": "Eston Hemings\n\nEston Hemings Jefferson (May 21, 1808 – January 3, 1856) was born a slave at Monticello, the youngest son of Sally Hemings, a mixed-race slave. Most historians who have considered the question believe that his father was Thomas Jefferson, the United States president. Evidence from a 1998 DNA test showed that a descendant of Eston matched the Jefferson male line, and historical evidence also supports the conclusion that Thomas Jefferson was probably Eston's father. Many historians believe that Jefferson had a relationship with Sally Hemings and fathered her six children, four of whom survived to adulthood.\n\nJefferson freed Eston and his older brother Madison Hemings in his will, as they had not yet come of age at his death. They each married and lived with their families and mother Sally in Charlottesville, Virginia, until her death in 1835. Both brothers and their young families moved to Chillicothe, Ohio, to live in a free state, where Eston Hemings earned a living as a musician and entertainer.\n\nIn 1852 Eston moved with his wife and three children to Madison, Wisconsin, where they changed their surname to Jefferson and entered the white community. Their sons both served in the Union Army, and the older one, John Wayles Jefferson, achieved the rank of colonel. He moved to Memphis, Tennessee, becoming a wealthy cotton broker and never married.\n\nEston's other children, Beverly and Anna Jefferson, married into the white community, and their descendants have identified as white. Beverly Jefferson's five sons were educated and three entered the professional class as a physician, attorney, and manager at the railroad. One of their male-line descendants was tested in the 1998 DNA study.\n\nWhat is known of Eston's life is derived from his brother Madison's 1873 memoir, a few entries in \"Thomas Jefferson's Farm Book,\" a handful of contemporary newspaper accounts, various census and land/tax records, and the family history of his descendants.\n\nEston was born into slavery as the youngest son of the slave Sally Hemings. As she was one of the six mixed-race children of Betty Hemings and John Wayles (Jefferson's father-in-law), she and her siblings were half-siblings to Jefferson's wife Martha Wayles and were three-quarters European in ancestry, as their mother had a white father. The historians Philip D. Morgan and Joshua D. Rothman have written about the numerous interracial relationships in the Wayles-Hemings-Jefferson families and the region, often with multiple generations repeating the pattern. The large Hemings family, with Betty Hemings as matriarch, was at the top of the slave hierarchy at Monticello; its members working as domestic servants, chefs, craftsmen and artisans.\n\nSally Hemings had light duties, and as children, Eston and his siblings \"were permitted to stay about the 'great house', and only required to do such light work as going on errands.\" Like their older brother Beverley, at age 14 Madison and Eston each began training in carpentry, under tutelage of their uncle John Hemmings, the master woodworker at Monticello. All three brothers learned to play the violin (Jefferson also is known to have regularly played when he was younger, and his younger brother Randolph, according to the ex-slave Isaac Granger, \"used to come out among black people, play the fiddle & dance half the night\".)\n\nMadison and Eston were freed in 1827, in accordance with President Jefferson's will. (Madison was 22; Eston was freed at 19.) Additionally, Jefferson's will petitioned the legislature to allow the Hemingses to stay in Virginia after being freed, unlike most freed slaves. In his 1873 memoir, Madison said the Hemings children were freed as a result of a promise Jefferson made to Sally Hemings.\n\nAfter Jefferson's death, Sally Hemings was \"given her time\" by his daughter. The older woman lived freely with her two sons in Charlottesville. In the 1830 census, the census taker in Charlottesville classified all three Hemings as white, showing how others perceived them by appearance because of their overwhelming European ancestry. Sally was of three-quarters white ancestry. Her children were seven-eighths white and thus legally white under the Virginia law of the time. It was not until 1924 that Virginia passed the Racial Integrity Act, which classified anyone as black who had \"any\" known African ancestry, under the \"one drop rule\".\n\nUpon gaining freedom, Hemings initially pursued a career in woodworking and carpentry in Charlottesville, Virginia. In 1830, Eston Hemings purchased property and built a house on Main Street, where his mother lived with him until her death in 1835.\n\nIn 1832, Eston married a free woman of color, Julia Ann Isaacs (1814–1889). She was the daughter of the successful Jewish merchant David Isaacs, from Germany, and Ann (Nancy) West, a free woman of mixed race. Nancy West was the daughter of Priscilla, a former slave, and Thomas West, her white master. Thomas West left property to his children Nancy and James West in his will. Prohibited by law from marrying, David Isaacs and Nancy West maintained separate households and businesses for years (she was a successful baker.) They had seven children together, and later in their lives shared a household.\n\nEston and Julia Ann Hemings had three children: John Wayles Jefferson (1835–1892), Anne Wayles Jefferson (1836–1866), and Beverly Frederick Jefferson (1838–1908) (their surname was changed from Hemings to Jefferson as the family moved to Wisconsin after 1850). The first two were born in Charlottesville.\nAbout 1837 Hemings moved with his family to Chillicothe, a town in southwest Ohio (a free state) with a thriving community. Numerous free blacks and white abolitionists had support-stations linked to the Underground Railroad to aid escaping slaves. There Hemings became a professional musician, playing the violin or fiddle and leading a successful dance band. The children were educated in integrated schools. Anna for a time attended the Manual Labor School at Albany, Ohio. A former classmate later wrote that she was introduced as \"Miss Anna (or Ann) Heming[s] [sic], the grand daughter of Thomas Jefferson\".\n\nIn a 1902 article of the \"Scioto Gazette,\" a correspondent wrote that while Hemings lived in Ohio in the 1840s, it was widely said that he and his brother Madison were the sons of Thomas Jefferson. In addition, several neighbors of Eston had traveled together to Washington, DC, where they saw a statue of Jefferson; they commented on how much Hemings resembled him. The correspondent also recollected:\n\nEston Hemings, being a master of the violin, and an accomplished \"caller\" of dances, always officiated at the \"swell\" entertainments of Chillicothe.\n\nPassage of the Fugitive Slave Act in 1850 increased pressure on the black communities in Ohio and other free states bordering slave states. In towns along the Underground Railroad, slave catchers invaded the communities, sometimes kidnapping and selling into slavery free people as well as fugitive slaves. In 1852, Eston decided to move the family further north for security, and migrated to Madison, Wisconsin. There they took the surname Jefferson, and they passed into the European-American (white) community. Eston Hemings Jefferson died in 1856.\n\nTheir eldest son John Wayles Jefferson served as a white officer in the regular United States Army during the American Civil War, achieving the rank of colonel. John W. Jefferson led the Wisconsin 8th Infantry. He was wounded twice in battle. During the war, he published letters home, and after the war, published articles about his experiences. Before the war, John Jefferson ran the American House hotel in Madison, which was taken over by his younger brother Beverley. After the war and the end of slavery in the U.S., John Jefferson moved to Memphis, Tennessee. He became a successful cotton broker, supported his mother, and left a considerable estate at his death in 1892. He never married or had known children.\n\nBoth Anna and Beverley Jefferson married white spouses, and their descendants have identified as white. Anna married Albert T. Pearson, a carpenter who was a captain during the Civil War. Their son Walter Beverly Pearson became a wealthy industrialist in Chicago.\n\nBeverley Jefferson was also a Civil War veteran of the Union Army. Returning to Madison, he moved from the American House to run the Capitol House hotels. He founded the first omnibus line in the Wisconsin capital, and was a popular figure among politicians in the city. He married Anna Smith from Pennsylvania. Their five sons gained educations and three entered the professions: one became a doctor in Chicago, another an attorney, another worked in railroad management.\n\nThe Eston Hemings Jefferson family is buried in Forest Hill Cemetery, Madison.\n\nIn the 1970s, Jean Jefferson, unaware of her connection to the Hemings family, read Fawn Brodie's biography, \"Jefferson: An Intimate Portrait\". She recognized Eston Hemings Jefferson's name in the book from family stories and contacted Brodie. The historian helped Jefferson start putting the pieces of the family history back together.\n\nThey discovered that in the 1940s, her father and his brothers had decided against continued telling of the Hemings-Jefferson story to their children, out of fear the younger people would be discriminated against. The family's new knowledge of their history enabled DNA researchers in 1998 to locate Jean's cousin, John Weeks Jefferson, a male descendant of Eston Hemings Jefferson, for testing. His Y-chromosome matched the rare haplotype of the Thomas Jefferson male line. The Carr male line did not match, partly calling into question the oral history of Thomas Jefferson Randolph that Peter Carr was the father of Sally Hemings' children. Whether or not the Carr male line matches Hemings' other children is unknown as DNA tests were only performed on a descendant of one of her children, Eston Hemings.\n\nHistorians had long disputed accounts that Thomas Jefferson had a relationship with his mixed-race slave Sally Hemings and fathered children by her. In the late 20th century, historians began reanalyzing the body of evidence. In 1997, Annette Gordon-Reed published a book that analyzed the historiography and noted how historians since the 19th century had accepted accounts by Jefferson descendants while rejecting accounts by Madison Hemings, a son of Sally Hemings, and Israel Jefferson, another former slave at Monticello. Both said that Thomas Jefferson fathered Hemings' children. She said historians failed to adequately assess which version was supported by known facts.\n\nA Y-DNA analysis in 1998 showed no match between the Carr male line, proposed for more than 150 years as the father(s) of the Hemings children, and the male Hemings descendant tested. It did show a match between the Jefferson male line and the Eston Hemings descendant. Sally Hemings is believed to be the half-sister of Thomas Jefferson's wife Martha; her mother was Elizabeth Hemings, a mixed-race slave, and her father was John Wayles, also Martha's father.\n\nSince 1998 and the DNA study, many historians have accepted that the widower Jefferson had a long intimate relationship with Hemings, and fathered six children with her, four of whom survived to adulthood. The Thomas Jefferson Foundation (TJF), which runs Monticello, and the National Genealogical Society conducted independent studies; their scholars concluded Jefferson was probably the father of all Hemings's children.\n\nCritics, such as the Thomas Jefferson Heritage Society (TJHS) Scholars Commission (2001), have argued against the TJF report. They have concluded that there is insufficient evidence to determine that Jefferson was the father of Hemings's children. The TJHS report suggested that Jefferson's younger brother Randolph Jefferson could have been the father, and that Hemings may have had multiple partners. No previous accounts had suggested that.\n\nIn 2012, the Smithsonian Institution and the Thomas Jefferson Foundation held a major exhibit at the National Museum of American History: \"Slavery at Jefferson's Monticello: The Paradox of Liberty;\" it says that \"most historians now believe that ... the evidence strongly support[s] the conclusion that Jefferson was the father of Sally Hemings' children.\" The exhibit toured in Atlanta and Saint Louis into 2014 after leaving Washington.\n\nIn 2010 Eston's descendant Julie Jefferson Westerinen (whose brother's DNA matched the Jefferson line), and her cousin Shay Banks-Young, a descendant of Madison Hemings, were honored together with their half-cousin David Works, a descendant of Martha Wayles Skelton Jefferson. The three identify as European American, African American and European American, respectively. In the last several years, since meeting, they have become active in talking about race and related issues in public forums. In addition to organizing reunions between the two sides of the Jefferson family, they have created a new organization, the \"Monticello Community\", to bring together the descendants of all who lived and worked at Monticello.\n\nThe three received the international \"Search for Common Ground\" award for \"their work to bridge the divide within their family and heal the legacy of slavery.\" They have been featured on NPR and in other interviews across the country. Ms. Westerinen has said, \"Our family is like a sample family that was deeply divided and then came together,\" she said. \"So think of what an example we can set for America.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247744", "title": "Super Chicken", "text": "Super Chicken\n\nSuper Chicken is a segment that ran on the animated television series \"George of the Jungle\". It was produced by Jay Ward and Bill Scott, who earlier had created the \"Rocky and Bullwinkle\" cartoons. It debuted September 9, 1967 on ABC.\n\nSuper Chicken (voiced by Bill Scott in a Boston Brahmin accent) is an anthropomorphic chicken and superhero who is the alter-ego of wealthy Henry Cabot Henhouse III (whose name was a play on Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr.). He has a lion sidekick named Fred (voiced by Paul Frees impersonating Ed Wynn) who wears an inside-out sweatshirt with a backwards F on it and acts as Henry's servant when in his civilian lifestyle. When danger reared its ugly head, he would take his \"Super Sauce\" (often from a martini glass) and don his \"Super Suit,\" which consisted of a plumed cavalier's hat, cape, Wellington boots, mask and sword. Super Chicken usually begins their adventures with the battle cry, \"To the Super Coop, Fred!\" The Super Coop was an egg-shaped air vehicle flown by Super Chicken and Fred to the rescue of innocent victims of crime. When Fred comments on his latest injury, Super Chicken responds with a variation of the theme, \"You knew the job was dangerous when you took it, Fred!\" Following his own mistakes, Super Chicken remarks, \"I'm glad no one was here to see that!\" \n\nSuper Chicken was a parody of the well-off WASP of the 1950s, horn-rimmed glasses wearing, martini drinking, and having a sense of social obligation (fulfilled in this case by suiting up and fighting bizarre menaces to society). A similar, contemporary fictional character was Bruce Wayne, a millionaire who fought crime as Batman. Earlier precursors included Zorro and the Scarlet Pimpernel.\n\nThe first pilot featured an all-star comedy cast, including Bill Dana with Don Knotts as the voice of Super Chicken. The project was shelved and eventually recast.\n\nThe original concept for Super Chicken in the pilot differed from the subsequent 17 episodes. Super Chicken's mild-mannered identity was Hunt Strongbird, Jr. The Super Coupe was a wooden chicken coop with a glass canopy, airplane wings and a jet engine. Also absent was the need for Super Sauce to institute the change into Super Chicken. Super Chicken's sidekick Fred was fundamentally the same, except that instead of sneakers, he wore black boots.\n\nIn 1969, Gold Key Comics published two issues of a \"George of the Jungle\" comic book. Each issue contained a story featuring Super Chicken. Issue #1 presented \"The Stolen State\", and #2 \"The Astounding Dr. Gizmo!\", both adaptations of cartoon episodes. The artist and writer of the stories, Paul Fung, Jr. was not credited in the comic.\n\nIn an episode of \"Darkwing Duck\", Darkwing references a line from the \"Super Chicken\" series. When approaching a dangerous target, Darkwing tells his sidekick, \"It's like the chicken said, Launchpad--I knew the job was dangerous when I took it.\"\n\nDuring the January 27, 2003 episode of \"Loveline\", host Drew Pinsky revealed that as a child he had participated in the test marketing of the show. This followed a rendition of the theme song by guest Emma Caulfield and cohost Adam Carolla. He said \"it looked retarded to me\", and \"I was like eight years old and they marketed that and [...] George of the Jungle and another – it seemed to me more bizarre – \"It's About Time\" kind of thing: a guy gets frozen and comes back to life\".\n\nJerry Seinfeld referenced Super Chicken in a \"Bee Movie TV Junior\", in which he recites the Super Chicken theme song.\n\nThe late historian Kenneth Cmiel opens his \"Democratic Eloquence: The Fight over Popular Speech in Nineteenth-Century America\" (New York: William Morrow and Company, Inc., 1990) with the famous quote, \"You knew the job was dangerous when you took it,\" which is found on the dedication page.\n\nIn the Jerry Pournelle and Roland Green science fiction novel \"\", part of the Janissaries series, the mercenary Ben Murphy is in a tight situation and says to himself, \"But what the hell, you knew the job was dangerous when you took it, Fred...\", a clear reference to the Super Chicken theme song. No character named Fred occurs elsewhere in the novel.\n\nIn Hip-Hop artist Ice Cube's Ghetto Bird (from the \"Lethal Injection\" album), he makes a derisive reference to police helicopters \"up there lookin' like Super Chicken\".\n\nIn one of the \"Tom Clancy's Op-Center\" series of novels, titled \"Dark Zone\", by Jeff Rovin and George Galdorisi, Op-Center's JSOC detachment commander, Major Mike Volner recollects a quote from a cartoon his grandfather had enjoyed watching and that the young Volner had adopted as a motto to accompany new challenges: \"You knew the job was dangerous when you took it!\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247750", "title": "The Landlord's Game", "text": "The Landlord's Game\n\nThe Landlord's Game is a board game patented in 1904 by Elizabeth Magie as . It is a realty and taxation game intended to educate users about Georgism. It is the inspiration for the board game \"Monopoly\".\n\nIn 1902 to 1903, Magie designed the game and play tested it in Arden, Delaware. The game was created to be a \"practical demonstration of the present system of land grabbing with all its usual outcomes and consequences\". She based the game on the economic principles of Georgism, a system proposed by Henry George, with the object of demonstrating how rents enrich property owners and impoverish tenants. She knew that some people could find it hard to understand why this happened and what might be done about it, and she thought that if Georgist ideas were put into the concrete form of a game, they might be easier to demonstrate. Magie also hoped that when played by children the game would provoke their natural suspicion of unfairness, and that they might carry this awareness into adulthood.\n\"The Landlord's Game\" has some similarities to the basic rules of the board game \"Zohn Ahl\", played by the Kiowa Indians of North America. There are hints that suggest Elizabeth Magie might have known \"Zohn Ahl\" and incorporated some of the game's ideas.\n\nIn 1903, Magie filed for a patent on the game which was granted in 1904. Magie and other fellow Georgists formed a company, Economic Game Company, in 1906 New York to publish the game. Besides Magie, the incorporators were E. H. Monroe of Chicago and E. G. Lenbusher of New York. Magie approached Parker Brothers to publish this and one other game in 1909. The other game was accepted while \"Landlord's\" was rejected as too complicated.\n\nIn the United Kingdom \"The Landlord's Game\" was first published in 1913 by the Newbie Game Company, formed by a Liberal Committee from the village of Newbie in Dumfries, under the title \"Brer Fox an' Brer Rabbit\"; although, despite the title change, it was recognizably the same game. \"Landlord\" sold well in the Northeast amongst its left-wing intellectuals, while \"Brer\" was unsuccessful.\n\nScott Nearing, socialist professor of economics at Wharton School of Finance from 1906 to 1915, lived in Arden in 1910, where Magie invented the game, learned about the game and taught it to his students. College students made up their own boards to use with her rules. Various versions of the game popped up over the following years under a variety of names, \"Monopoly\", \"Finance\", and \"Auction\" being among them. Among the Atlantic City and Philadelphia communities of Quakers, the game was particularly popular with college students and economics professors. Jesse and Eugene Raiford, Quakers in Atlantic City, used household items instead of pawns and changed the properties to those of Atlantic City.\n\nWith Magie's first patent having expired, in 1923, Magie decided to attempt to regain control by applying for another patent. On September 23, 1924, a second patent was issued to Magie for \"The Landlord's Game\". Adgame Company (Inc.) published \"Landlord's Game and Prosperity\" under this patent in 1932.\n\nRobert Baron had Parker Brothers design its own version, \"Fortune\", before negotiation to purchase her patents in case the discussion fell apart or she sold to another potential buyer, Dave Knapp, publisher of \"Finance\". Magie held the patent until 1935, when she sold it to Parker Brothers for $500. The company had recently started distributing \"Monopoly\", which it purchased from Charles Darrow who claimed to have invented it. The company only printed a very small run of the game to secure the copyright. Surviving copies of \"The Landlord's Game\" by Parker Brothers is considered by many the rarest of all 20th century board games. Parker Brothers pushed her game aside for Darrow's by 1936. Magie then did two interviews with copies of the original board with \"The Washington Post\" and \"The Evening Star\" to show that Darrow was not the inventor of the \"Monopoly\" game.\n\nIn 1937, \"Carnival\" was published based on the 1904 version. Parker Brothers published their edition of the game in 1939.\n\nIn a 2004 episode of PBS' \"History Detectives\" (title: \"Monopoly; Japanese Internment Camp Artwork; The Lewis and Clark Cane\"), the show investigated a game board belonging to a Delaware man, having an intermediate version of a game combining elements of \"The Landlord's Game\" and \"Monopoly\". The investigators concluded that this game board was the missing link that proves that \"Monopoly\" was derived from \"The Landlord's Game\".\n\nThe set had rules for two different games, anti-monopolist and a monopolist. The anti-monopolist rules reward all during wealth creation while the monopolist rules had the goal of forming monopolies and forcing opponents out of the game. A win in the anti-monopolist or Single Tax version (later called \"Prosperity\"), was when the player having the lowest monetary amount has doubled his original stake.\n\nThe board featured a track around the outside edge of the board split into blocks representing properties and had their purchase price, and their rental value listed in the block. New York City's Broadway, Fifth Avenue, and Wall Street were the top properties in price and rent. The published game included Chance cards with quotes attributed to Thomas Jefferson, John Ruskin and Andrew Carnegie.\n\nFrom the 1904 patented version to the published 1906 version, the property names were changed and the rule for increased rent for multiple railroads owned was added.\n\nThe game's first patent was the first issued for a game while claiming four features in the application, the most important feature was a continuous path game. At the time, most games had a start and end spot. With the first patent having expired in 1921, Magie applied for another patent with five new claims.\n\nThe claims of Magie's second patent could not include those of the first (now in the public domain) and leaned more towards the single tax theory of play. One common misconception is that Parker Brothers acquired the rights to Magie's original invention of \"Monopoly\" play and the unique design by purchasing the later 1924 patent. Parker Brothers acquired Magie's patent to \"The Landlord's Game\" but although both patents had the same name they covered different claims. The substitution or confusion of the early patent for the later is still commonplace.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247754", "title": "Etta Place", "text": "Etta Place\n\nEtta Place ( 1878 – ?) was a companion of the American outlaws Butch Cassidy (real name Robert LeRoy Parker) and the Sundance Kid (Harry Alonzo Longabaugh), both members of the outlaw gang known as the Wild Bunch. She was principally the companion of Longabaugh. Little is known about her; both her origin and her fate remain shrouded in mystery.\n\nThe Pinkerton Detective Agency described her in 1906 as having, \"classic good looks, 27 or 28 years old, 5'4\" to 5'5\" [163–165 cm] in height, weighing between , with a medium build and brown hair.\"\n\nAccording to a memorandum from the Pinkerton Detective Agency, dated July 29, 1902, she was \"said ... to be from Texas\", and in another Pinkerton document dated 1906, she is described as being \"27 to 28 years old\", placing her birth between 1878 and 1879. A hospital staff record from Denver, where she received treatment in May 1900, reports her age as \"22 or 23,\" putting her birth year at 1877 or 1878.\n\nLike Etta Place’s history, her name is somewhat ambiguous. \"Place\" was the maiden surname of Longabaugh's mother (Annie Place) and she is recorded in various sources as Mrs. Harry Longabaugh or Mrs. Harry A. Place. In the one instance where she is known to have signed her name, she did so as \"Mrs. Ethel Place\". The Pinkertons called her \"Ethel\", \"Ethal\", \"Eva\", and \"Rita\" before finally settling on \"Etta\" for its wanted posters. Her name may have become \"Etta\" after she moved to South America, where Spanish speakers had trouble pronouncing \"Ethel\".\n\nIn February 1901, Etta Place accompanied Longabaugh to New York City, where at Tiffany's jewelers they purchased a lapel watch and stickpin, and posed for the now-famous DeYoung portrait at a studio in Union Square on Broadway. It is one of only two known images of her. On February 20, 1901, she sailed with him and Parker (who was now posing as \"James Ryan,\" her fictional brother), aboard the British ship \"Herminius\" for Buenos Aires.\n\nThere she settled with the two outlaws on a ranch which they purchased near Cholila in the Chubut Province of southwest Argentina. It comprised a four-room log cabin on the east bank of the Blanco River. Under a new 1884 law, they were granted 15,000 acres (61 km²) of adjacent land to develop, 2,500 of which belonged to Place, who has the distinction of being the first woman in Argentina to acquire land under the new act as land ownership previously had been almost the exclusive preserve of men.\n\nOn March 3, 1902, she and Longabaugh returned to New York City on the SS \"Soldier Prince\", probably to visit family and friends in the United States. On April 2, they registered at a Mrs. Thompson's rooming house in New York City. They toured Coney Island and visited his family (originally from Mont Clare, Pennsylvania, but by then living in Atlantic City, New Jersey). They also possibly traveled to a Dr. Pierce's Invalid Hotel in Buffalo, New York, for unspecified medical treatment. They then traveled west, where again they sought medical treatment, this time in Denver, Colorado. They returned to Buenos Aires from New York on July 10, 1902, aboard the steamer \"Honorius\", posing as stewards. On August 9, she was with Longabaugh at the Hotel Europa in Buenos Aires, and on the 15th, she sailed with him aboard the steamer SS \"Chubut\" to return to their ranch.\n\nIn the summer of 1904, she made another visit with Longabaugh to the United States, where the Pinkerton Detective Agency traced them to Fort Worth, Texas, and to the St. Louis World Fair, but failed to arrest them before they returned to Argentina. In early 1905, the trio sold the Cholila ranch, as once again the law was beginning to catch up with them. The Pinkerton Agency had known their precise address for months, but the rainy season prevented their assigned agent Frank Dimaio from traveling there and making an arrest. Governor Julio Lezana issued an arrest warrant, but before it could be executed, Sheriff Edward Humphreys, a Welsh Argentinian who was friendly with Parker and enamored of Place, tipped them off. The trio fled north to San Carlos de Bariloche, where they embarked on the steamer \"Condor\" across Lake Nahuel Huapi and into Chile.\n\nBy the end of that year, however, they were back in Argentina. On December 19, 1904, Place took part, along with Longabaugh, Parker, and an unknown male, in the robbery of the Banco de la Nacion in Villa Mercedes, 400 miles west of Buenos Aires. Pursued by armed lawmen, they crossed the Pampas and the Andes and again into Chile.\n\nPlace had long been tired of life on the run and deeply lamented the loss of their ranch. At her request, on June 30, 1906, Longabaugh accompanied her from Valparaiso, Chile to San Francisco, where she apparently remained while he returned permanently to South America. After this parting, no evidence shows that Longabaugh and Place ever saw one another again.\n\nThose who had met Place claimed the first thing they noticed about her was that she was strikingly pretty, with a very nice smile, and that she was cordial, articulate, refined in speech and manners, and an excellent shot with a rifle. She was said to have spoken in an educated manner, and she indicated she was originally from the East Coast, although she never revealed an exact location.\n\nYears later eyewitnesses said that Place was one of only five women known to have been allowed into the Wild Bunch hideout at Robbers Roost in southern Utah, the other four having been Will Carver's girlfriend Josie Bassett, who also was involved with Parker for a time; Josie's sister and Parker's longtime girlfriend Ann Bassett; Elzy Lay's girlfriend Maude Davis; and gang member Laura Bullion.\nPlace was believed to have once been married to a schoolteacher, and at least one person claimed Place herself was a teacher who abandoned her husband and two children to be with Longabaugh. It has also been speculated that she met the gang while working as a prostitute and was originally Parker's lover and became involved with Longabaugh later, but there is no direct evidence of this.\nIt has also been claimed that she may have met Parker and/or Longabaugh in the brothel of Madame Fannie Porter in San Antonio, which was frequented by members of the Wild Bunch gang. Several gang members met girlfriends at Madame Porter's who later traveled with them, including Kid Curry and Della Moore, a prostitute, and Will Carver and Lillie Davis. Wild Bunch female gang member Laura Bullion is believed to have worked at the brothel from time to time.\n\nIt has been suggested that Place's real name was Ethel Bishop. Such a woman lived at another brothel, at 212 Concho Street, around the corner from Madame Porter's. On the 1900 census, Bishop's occupation was given as an unemployed music teacher. She was 23 at the time, born in West Virginia in September 1876. The Ethel Bishop hypothesis neatly combines, in one person, the claims that she was a schoolteacher, and the one that she was a prostitute.\n\nAnother conjecture is that she was a cattle rustler named Ann Bassett (1878–1956) who knew and ran with the Wild Bunch at the turn of the 20th century. Both Bassett and Place were attractive women, with similar facial features, body frame, and hair color. Bassett was born in 1878, the same year Place was thought to have been born. Dr. Thomas G. Kyle of the Computer Research Group at Los Alamos National Laboratory, who performed many photographic comparisons for government intelligence agencies, conducted a series of tests on photographs of Etta Place and Ann Bassett. Both had the same scar or cowlick at the top of their forehead. Dr. Kyle concluded that there could be no reasonable doubt they were the same person. Historian Doris Karren Burton also investigated the lives of both women and published a book in 1992 claiming they were one and the same.\n\nHowever, Bassett's and Place's chronologies do not align. Several documents prove that Bassett was in Wyoming during much of the time when Place was in South America. Bassett was arrested and briefly incarcerated in Utah for rustling cattle in 1903 while Place was in South America with Longabaugh and Parker. Bassett also married her first husband in Utah that year, and therefore, could not have been in South America during that time.\n\nA once popular theory held that she was Eunice Gray, who for many years operated a brothel in Fort Worth, Texas, and later ran the Waco Hotel there until she died in a fire in January 1962. Gray once told Delbert Willis of the \"Fort Worth Press\", \"I've lived in Fort Worth since 1901. That is except for the time I had to high-tail it out of town. Went to South America for a few years ... until things settled down.\" Willis conceded that Gray never claimed to be Etta Place; he merely made that connection on his own, given the similarities in their ages, and the period in which Gray said she was in South America coinciding with Place's time there. Gray was described as a beautiful woman, and Willis believed that Place and Gray held a striking resemblance to one another, but there were no known photographs of Gray from that period to compare with Place's. In 2007, amateur genealogist Donna Donnell found Eunice Gray on a 1911 passenger list from Panama. Following that lead, she tracked down Gray's niece, who had two photographs of her: one taken at her high school graduation circa 1896, and another from sometime in the 1920s. Comparing those photos to Place's, both agreed that Eunice Gray was definitely not Etta Place.\n\nYet another theory suggests that Place was actually Madaline Wilson, another girl in Fannie Porter's brothel. Sleuth Tony Hays notes that of the five girls in Fannie's “boarding house,\" all were born around 1878–80. One girl, 22-year-old Wilson, appeared in the 1900 census records of Bexar County, Texas, immediately beneath Madame Porter's name. Like Porter, Wilson was listed as being of English birth, immigrating to the United States in 1884 at the age of six. Hays theorizes that Wilson changed her name, and that her British accent, tempered by 16 years in America, might be described as \"refined.\" All traces of Wilson disappeared after the 1900 census after Place and Longabaugh left town.\n\nThere is still considerable debate over when Place's relationship with Longabaugh ended. Some claims indicate that Place ended her relationship with Longabaugh and returned to the United States before his death. Others believe that the two remained romantically involved, and that she simply tired of life in South America. By 1907, she was known to have been living in San Francisco, but after that, she vanished without a trace.\n\nIn 1909, a woman matching Place's description asked Frank Aller (US Vice-Consul in Antofagasta, Chile) for assistance in obtaining a death certificate for Longabaugh. No such certificate was issued, and the woman's identity was never ascertained.\n\nAuthor Richard Llewellyn claimed that while in Argentina he found indications that Place had moved to Paraguay following the death of Longabaugh, and that she had married a wealthy man. There also were rumors that Etta Place was in fact Edith Mae, wife of famous boxing promoter Tex Rickard, who retired to a ranch in Paraguay shortly after promoting the famous fight between Jack Johnson and Jim Jeffries in 1910.\n\nA Pinkerton report states that a woman matching Place's description was killed in a shootout resulting from a domestic dispute with a man named Mateo Gebhart in Chubut, Argentina, in March 1922. Another report claims she committed suicide in 1924 in Argentina, and yet another states that she died of natural causes in 1966.\n\nThere have been various additional claims about her life after the death of Longabaugh. Some believe that she returned to New York City, while other theories suggest she moved back to Texas and started a new life there. One claim is that she returned to her life as a schoolteacher, living the remainder of her life in Denver, Colorado, and another story says she lived the remainder of her life teaching in Marion, Oregon. There are also various claims that she returned to prostitution, living the remainder of her life in Texas, California or New York. However, these claims are mere speculation, without any supporting evidence.\n\nAuthor and researcher Larry Pointer, author of the 1977 book \"In Search of Butch Cassidy\", wrote that Place's identity and fate are \"one of the most intriguing riddles in western history. Leads develop only to dissolve into ambiguity.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247759", "title": "Joliet Central High School", "text": "Joliet Central High School\n\nJoliet Central High School is a public secondary school located in Joliet, Illinois. Central is part of Joliet Township High Schools, along with Joliet West and Joliet East (now defunct). Before the opening of Joliet East and West, the school was called Joliet Township High School. In 1993, when Joliet Central and Joliet West combined many of their athletic and other competitive extracurricular programs, the combined program took the old \"Joliet Township\" name. The school's notable alumni have gone on to careers in fields from arts and letters to science and technology.\n\nThe original building was designed by architect Frank Shaver Allen in the \"Collegiate Gothic\" featuring arches, castellated walls, and towers. It was built in 1901 and expanded by the D. H. Burnham Company, in 1917, 1922, 1924, and 1931 which were build in similar style. It is built of locally quarried limestone. The building was placed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1982.\n\nThe school is four stories tall, two city blocks long, and includes four separate buildings. The campus underwent a moderate expansion during 2005 when the old shop building was knocked down and a new building was erected in its place. A catwalk connects the main building to the T&I building and allows students to cross sheltered from inclement weather. The facilities include a daycare center, a planetarium, six tennis courts, one soccer field, four baseball fields, a 1/16-mile indoor track and a 1/4-mile track across the street to the east.\n\nThere is a historical display on the second floor near the South Entrance that is maintained by the Joliet Central Historical Society. Many archived items are kept in a vault; the display includes the original Steelman sculpture and conceptual models of it from the 1933 Chicago World's Fair. The Steelman was sculpted by Louise Lentz Woodruff and is positioned with its hands behind a male and female, symbolizing technology advancing humans. It is surrounded by the original relief panels representing the basic sciences: astronomy, mathematics, physics, chemistry, botany, zoology, medicine, and geology. It has long been considered good luck to rub the right knee of the male before any test or sporting events; therefore, the knee has been worn away and reconstituted over the years.\n\nAfter finishing a new parking lot in 2007, Central began constructing a Field House over the parking lot. In October 2008, the Field House was completed.\n\nIn April 2016, Gilbane Building Company completed construction of a new addition. The new structure, designed by Wight & Co., features a three-story glass curtainwall facade that leads a student center and cafeteria that can seat up to 600 people for events.\n\nIn sports, the district had combined teams between Joliet West and Joliet Central that was collectively known as \"Joliet Township.\" However, the schools separated and now have two athletics. The program is a member of the Southwest Prairie Conference (SWPC) and the Illinois High School Association (IHSA). In this combined form the Steelmen/Steelwomen name which continues to be used by Joliet Central when it competes alone, is used for the combined teams. Joliet Central is the headquarters for the combined athletic program.\n\nThe athletic department sponsors interscholastic teams for young men and women in basketball, bowling, cross country, golf, soccer, swimming and diving, tennis, track and field, and volleyball. Young men may compete in baseball, football, and wrestling, while young women may compete in badminton, cheerleading, and softball. While not sponsored by the IHSA, the school sponsors a poms team.\n\nThe following teams finished in the top four of their respective IHSA sponsored state championship tournament:\n\n\nDuring the 2008–2009 school year, Central and West began to separate their football programs, causing the West mascot to become the Tiger again, leaving Central as the Steelmen. The split began with Joliet's freshmen football team dividing. By the 2010–2011 school year, Joliet Central and Joliet West will have their own football teams. All of the other sports except golf have divided too.\n\nIn 1913, A.R. McAllister, a manual arts instructor who played the cornet, was asked to organize a band for Joliet Township High School. Mr. McAllister, who grew up on a farm in Jackson Township, bought a cornet at age 14 with profits he earned from selling his pig at the Will County Fair. He studied music under James H. Ward, director of Ward's Boy Band in Joliet. Prior to directing the JT band, McAllister organized the Trinity Girl's Band in 1905 and performed with local ensembles, including the Dellwood Park Band and Joliet Steelworkers Industrial Band.\n\nUnder Mr. McAllister's leadership, the band won state championships from 1924–26 and national championships from 1926-28. In their hometown, the band received permanent possession of the trophy in 1928 and was praised by John Philip Sousa (see photo below). The band was exempt to play at the 1929 contest in Denver, but performed as an exhibition group. In 1931, the band regained the national title.\n\nIn 1936, McAllister lead his young musicians through a week of nine performances at Radio City Music Hall where the band performed an Easter show with the Rockettes, playing for a total of 160,000 people. The band played for draftees, and was known as \"the minute men\" because they were always ready - day or night to perform for soldiers traveling through Joliet.\n\nMr. McAllister became a nationally recognized leader of the school band movement and was known as \"the father of the high school band program.\" McAllister helped organize the National School Band Association in 1926. He was elected vice-president the same year before serving as president for 14 years. On Sept. 30, 1944, McAllister died at age 63.\n\nThe Joliet Township High School Band, later the Joliet Central Band, still continues today. It is one of the longest running band and one of the most successful band programs in the country. One of Joliet's nicknames is the \"City of Champions.\" This nickname stems from the numerous state and national titles won by the Joliet Township High School and grade school bands over several decades.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247764", "title": "History of lighthouses", "text": "History of lighthouses\n\nThe history of lighthouses refers to the development of the use of towers, buildings, or other types of structure, as an aid to navigation for maritime pilots at sea or on inland waterways.\n\nBefore the development of clearly defined ports, mariners were guided by fires built on hilltops. Since raising the fire would improve the visibility, placing the fire on a platform became a practice that led to the development of the lighthouse. In antiquity, the lighthouse functioned more as an entrance marker to ports than as a warning signal for reefs and promontories, unlike many modern lighthouses.\n\nAccording to Homeric legend, Palamedes of Nafplio invented the first lighthouse, although they are certainly attested with the Lighthouse of Alexandria (designed and constructed by Sostratus of Cnidus) and the Colossus of Rhodes. However, Themistocles had earlier established a lighthouse at the harbor of Piraeus connected to Athens in the 5th century BC, essentially a small stone column with a fire beacon.\n\nWritten descriptions and drawings of the Pharos of Alexandria provide information about lighthouses, but the tower itself collapsed during an earthquake many centuries after its construction in the 3rd century BC by the Greeks. The intact Tower of Hercules at A Coruña and the ruins of the Dover lighthouse in England give insight into construction; other evidence about lighthouses exists in depictions on coins and mosaics, of which many represent the lighthouse at Ostia. Coins from Alexandria, Ostia, and Laodicea in Syria also exist.\n\nWhile the evidence provides insight into the exterior structure of these structures, there are many gaps in evidence concerning less visible aspects of the structures. The remains at A Coruña and Dover help determine how each lighthouse structure functioned, though one must make some assumptions to determine how the structures beacons were illuminated. Presumably locally available fuels will have included wood and probably coal to keep a fire going continuously during the night, and there is a large chimney leading to the top room at the Tower of Hercules. The example from Dover has been converted at some stage into a simple watchtower.\nLighthouse keepers may have added combustible liquids to reduce the expenditure on fuel and keep the light steady during gales, but little information exists in the literature from the time. It may also be possible that the light was protected from the wind by glass windows, and large mirrors may have assisted in projecting the light beam as far as possible. It is likely that lighthouses would have required considerable labour for transporting the fuel and maintaining the flame. At Cape Hatteras in the 1870s, one keeper and two assistants kept themselves busy by tending more sophisticated flames from powerful oil lamps.\n\nWhile artistic representations assist us in re-creating a visual image of lighthouses, they present many problems. Depictions of lighthouses on Roman coins, inscriptions, carvings, and mosaics present an inconsistent view of the actual appearances of the structures. Most show a building with two or three stories that decreases in width as it ascends. The limited size of coins could cause the producer of the coin to alter the image to fit on the surface. The similarity in depictions of lighthouses is symbolic rather than accurate representations of specific beacons.\n\nDuring the middle age times, Roman lighthouses fell into disuse, but some remained functional, such as the Farum Brigantium, now known as the Tower of Hercules, in A Coruña, Spain, and others in the Mediterranean Sea such as the Lanterna at Genoa. As navigation improved, lighthouses gradually expanded into Western and Northern Europe. One of the oldest working lighthouses in Europe is Hook Lighthouse located at Hook Head in County Wexford, Ireland. It was built during the medieval period, in a sturdy –circular design.\n\nA century later, in the Late Middle Ages, a tower was built by Edward the Black Prince at Cordouan near the Gironde estuary. One hundred years later, in 1581, Henri III asked architect Louis de Foix to build a new one. Building the lighthouse took twenty-seven years and was finally completed in 1611. The tiered Cordouan symbolized French maritime power and prestige. The interior had sumptuous king's apartments, decorated pillars and murals. Its upper level was rebuilt between 1780 and 1790 increasing the height from 49m to 60m and incorporating an Argand lamp and one of the first parabolic mirrors which was turned by clockwork developed by a clockmaker of Dieppe. The tower later became the first to use the revolutionary Fresnel lens, in the early 1820s.)\n\nIn Britain, lighthouses were privately owned and the right to collect dues was by warrant either from a local authority or the crown. The abuse of these licenses led to foreign ships fearing to seek refuge on the south coast of England for fear of being boarded with demands, and to the loss of a number of ships, most notably the Dutch merchant ship Vreede in 1800 with the loss of 380 lives. \n\nWith the increasing number of ships lost along the Newcastle to London coal route, Trinity House established the Lowestoft Lighthouse in 1609, a pair of wooden towers with candle illuminants. Until the late 18th century, candle, coal, or wood fires were used as lighthouse illuminants, improved in 1782 with the circular-wick oil-burning Argand lamp, the first ‘catoptric’ mirrored reflector in 1777, and Fresnel’s ‘dioptric’ lens system in 1823. The Nore lightship was established as the world's first floating light in 1732.\n\nAfter the reforms of the Lighthouse Act 1836 by which Trinity House accepted powers to levy out the last private lighthouse owners and began refurbishing and upgrading its lighthouse estate, owners still managed to collect large dues, of which the largest were for the Smalls Lighthouse which collected £23,000 in 1852 and Trinity House was forced to spend over £1m in buying back leases, including £444,000 for the Skerries Lighthouse.\n\nThe modern era of lighthouses began at the turn of the 18th century, as lighthouse construction boomed in lockstep with burgeoning levels of transatlantic commerce. Advances in structural engineering and new and efficient lighting equipment allowed for the creation of larger and more powerful lighthouses, including ones exposed to the sea. The function of lighthouses shifted toward the provision of a visible warning against shipping hazards, such as rocks or reefs.\n\nThe Eddystone Rocks, an extensive reef near Plymouth Sound, England and one of the major shipwreck hazards for mariners sailing through the English Channel, was the site of many technical and conceptual advances in lighthouse construction. The difficulty of gaining a foothold on the dangerous rocks, particularly in the predominant swell, meant that it was a long time before anyone attempted to place any warning on them.\n\nThe first attempt was an octagonal wooden structure, anchored by 12 iron stanchions secured in the rock, and was built by Henry Winstanley from 1696 to 1698. The tower ultimately proved short-lived and the Great Storm of 1703 erased almost all trace of it. Following the destruction of the first lighthouse, a Captain Lovett acquired the lease of the rock, and by Act of Parliament was allowed to charge passing ships a toll of one penny per ton. He commissioned John Rudyard (or Rudyerd) to design the new lighthouse, built as a conical wooden structure around a core of brick and concrete. A temporary light was first shone from it in 1708 and the work was completed in 1709. This proved more durable, surviving until 1755 when it burnt to the ground.\n\nThe civil engineer, John Smeaton, rebuilt the lighthouse from 1756–59; his tower marked a major step forward in the design of lighthouses and remained in use until 1877. He modelled the shape of his lighthouse on that of an oak tree, using granite blocks. He pioneered the use of \"hydraulic lime,\" a form of concrete that will set under water, and developed a technique of securing the granite blocks together using dovetail joints and marble dowels. The dovetailing feature served to improve the structural stability, although Smeaton also had to taper the thickness of the tower towards the top, for which he curved the tower inwards on a gentle gradient. This profile had the added advantage of allowing some of the energy of the waves to dissipate on impact with the walls.\n\nConstruction started at a site in Millbay where Smeaton built a jetty and workyard in the south west corner of the harbour for unloading and working the stone. Timber rails of 3 ft. 6 in. gauge were laid for the four-wheeled flat trucks on which the masonry was moved around the site. A ten-ton ship, named the \"Eddystone Boat\", was based here and took the worked stones out to the reef. The lighthouse was high and had a diameter at the base of and at the top of .\n\nScottish engineer Robert Stevenson was a seminal figure in the development of lighthouse design and construction in the first half of the 19th century. In 1797, he was appointed engineer to the newly formed Northern Lighthouse Board, the Lighthouse Authority for Scotland and the Isle of Man. His greatest achievement was the construction of the Bell Rock Lighthouse in 1810, one of the most impressive feats of engineering of the age. This structure was based upon the design of the earlier Eddystone Lighthouse by John Smeaton, but with several improved features, such as the incorporation of rotating lights, alternating between red and white.\n\nStevenson worked for the Northern Lighthouse Board for nearly fifty years during which time he designed and oversaw the construction and later improvement of numerous lighthouses. He innovated in the choice of light sources, mountings, reflector design, the use of Fresnel lenses, and in rotation and shuttering systems providing lighthouses with individual signatures allowing them to be identified by seafarers. He also invented the movable jib and the balance crane as a necessary part for lighthouse construction.\n\nStevenson established a great dynasty of engineers specializing in lighthouse construction - his descendants were responsible for most of the lighthouse construction in Scotland for a century. Three of Robert's sons followed in his path: David, Alan, and Thomas. Two of David's children, David Alan and Charles Alexander also became distinguished lighthouse engineers in their own right.\n\nAlexander Mitchell designed the first screw-pile lighthouse - his lighthouse was built on piles that were screwed into the sandy or muddy seabed. Construction of his design began in 1838 at the mouth of the Thames and was known as the Maplin Sands lighthouse, and first lit in 1841. However, though its construction began later, the Wyre Light in Fleetwood, Lancashire, was the first to be lit (in 1840).\n\nThe first lighthouse in America was the Boston Light, built in 1716 at Boston Harbor. Lighthouses were soon built along the marshy coast lines from Delaware to North Carolina, where navigation was difficult and treacherous. These were generally made of wood, as it was readily available. Due to the fire hazard, masonry towers were increasingly built - the oldest standing masonry tower was Sandy Hook Lighthouse, built in 1764 in New Jersey.\n\nScrew-pile lighthouses were used in the Chesapeake Bay and along the Carolina coast in the United States. The first screw pile light in the United States was Brandywine Shoal in the Delaware Bay. They became especially popular after the Civil War when the Lighthouse Board approved a policy to replace lighthouses in the interior. Around 100 of these complex structures were built on the Atlantic coast line from the Delaware and Chesapeake Bays down to the Florida Keys and Gulf of Mexico. One of the most famous towers was the Thomas Point Shoal Light - it has been called “the finest example of a screw pile cottage anywhere in the world.”\n\nOn March 3, 1851, the U.S. Congress passed \"\"An Act Making Appropriations for Light House, Light Boats, Buoys, &c.\"\", leading to the creation of the United States Lighthouse Board to replace the Department of Treasury's Lighthouse Establishment as the governmental agency responsible for the construction and maintenance of all lighthouses and navigation aids in the United States\n\nThe source of illumination had generally been wood pyres or burning coal but this was expensive, some lighthouses consuming 400 tons of coal a year. Candles or oil lamps backed by concave mirrors were used, often in large banks. The French conducted a series of tests between 1783 and 1788 with varying results. Smeaton's Eddystone lighthouse used 24 candles until 1810.\n\nThe Argand lamp, invented in 1782 by the Swiss scientist, Aimé Argand, revolutionized lighthouse illumination with its steady smokeless flame. The Argand lamp had a sleeve-shaped candle wick mounted so that air could pass both through the center of the wick and also around the outside of the wick before being drawn into cylindrical chimney. This steadied the flame and improved the flow of air. Early models used ground glass which was sometimes tinted around the wick. Later models used a mantle of thorium dioxide suspended over the flame, creating a bright, steady light. The Argand lamp used whale oil, colza, olive oil or other vegetable oil as fuel which was supplied by a gravity feed from a reservoir mounted above the burner. The lamp was first produced by Matthew Boulton, in partnership with Argand, in 1784 and became the standard for lighthouses for over a century.\n\nJohn Richardson Wigham was the first to develop a system for gas illumination of lighthouses. He was given a grant by the Dublin Ballast Board in 1865 and he fitted his new gas 'crocus' burner at the Baily Lighthouse in Howth Head, giving an output 4 times more powerful than the equivalent oil lights. An improved 'composite' design, installed in the Baily light in 1868, was 13 times more powerful than the most brilliant light then known, according to the scientist John Tyndall, an advisor to the United Kingdom's lighthouse authority, Trinity House.\n\nIn 1870, the light at Wicklow Head was fitted with Wigham's patent intermittent flashing mechanism, which timed the gas supply by means of clockwork. When this mechanism was combined with a revolving lens in Rockabill Lighthouse, the world's first lighthouse with a group-flashing characteristic was produced.\nThe vaporized oil burner was invented in 1901 by Arthur Kitson, and improved by David Hood at Trinity House. The fuel was vaporized at high pressure and burned to heat the mantle, giving an output of over six times the luminosity of traditional oil lights.\n\nThe use of gas as illuminant became widely available with the invention of the Dalén light by Swedish engineer, Gustaf Dalén. In 1906, Dalén became the chief engineer at the Gas Accumulator Company. Initially Dalén worked with acetylene, an extremely explosive hydrocarbon gas. Dalén invented Agamassan (Aga), a substrate used to absorb the gas allowing safe storage and hence commercial exploitation. Acetylene produced an ultra-bright white-light and immediately superseded the duller-flamed LPG as the fuel of choice in lighthouse illuminations. Dalén incorporated another invention into his light - the 'sun valve'. This device allowed the light to operate only at night, conserving fuel, and extending their service life to over a year.\n\nThe AGA lighthouse equipment worked without any type of electric supply and was thus extremely reliable. To a rugged coastal area like Scandinavia, his mass-produced, robust, minimal maintenance lights were a significant boon to safety and livelihood. AGA Lighthouses covered the entire Panama Canal. The technology was the predominant form of light source in lighthouses from the 1900s through the 1960s, when electric lighting had become dominant.\n\nThe first electrically illuminated lighthouse was the tower at Dungeness, Kent in 1862. It was powered by a large carbon arc lamp, although it was later converted back to oil, as the arc lamps were difficult to operate (needing twice the number of keepers) and were not as cost-effective as oil lamps. South Foreland Lighthouse was the first tower to successfully use an electric light in 1875. The lighthouse's carbon arc lamps were powered by a steam-driven magneto.\n\nWith the development of the steady illumination of the Argand lamp, the application of optical lenses to increase and focus the light intensity became a practical possibility. William Hutchinson developed the first practical optical system in 1763, known as a catoptric system. He constructed paraboloidal reflectors by attaching small pieces of reflective material to a cast that had been moulded into an approximate paraboloid. This rudimentary system effectively collimated the emitted light into a concentrated beam, thereby greatly increasing the light's visibility. His system was installed in the newly built Leasowe Lighthouse, and was later copied elsewhere. The ability to focus the light led to the first revolving lighthouse beams, where the light would appear to the mariners as a series of intermittent flashes. It also became possible to transmit complex signals using the light flashes.\n\nThe idea of creating a thinner, lighter lens by making it with separate sections mounted in a frame is often attributed to Georges-Louis Leclerc, Comte de Buffon. The marquis de Condorcet (1743–1794) proposed grinding such a lens from a single thin piece of glass.\n\nHowever, it was the French physicist and engineer Augustin-Jean Fresnel who is credited with the development of the multi-part Fresnel lens for use in lighthouses. His design allowed for the construction of lenses of large aperture and short focal length, without the mass and volume of material that would be required by a lens of conventional design. A Fresnel lens can be made much thinner than a comparable conventional lens, in some cases taking the form of a flat sheet. A Fresnel lens can also capture more oblique light from a light source, thus allowing the light from a lighthouse equipped with one to be visible over greater distances.\n\nThe first Fresnel lens was used in 1823 in the Cordouan lighthouse at the mouth of the Gironde estuary; its light could be seen from more than out. Scottish physicist Sir David Brewster is credited with convincing the British authorities to adopt these lenses in their lighthouses. Fresnel's invention increased the luminosity of the lighthouse lamp by a factor of 4 and his system is still in common use.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247766", "title": "Furka Pass", "text": "Furka Pass\n\nFurka Pass (), with an elevation of , is a high mountain pass in the Swiss Alps connecting Gletsch, Valais with Realp, Uri. The Furka Oberalp Bahn line through the Furka Tunnel bypasses the pass. The base tunnel opened in 1982 and replaced a tunnel at 2100 m.\n\nThe Furka Pass was used as a location in the James Bond film \"Goldfinger\".\nOne curve on the east side of the pass is even named \"James Bond Strasse\". At the sign, there is a lookout point with a small parking area. Visitors can also park next to Hotel Belvédère, close to the top of the pass on the west side, and take the short walk to the Rhone Glacier Ice Grotto. The glacier moves 30-40 meters a year and the 100 m long tunnel and ice chamber can be visited from June when the road opens.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247772", "title": "Baron Alexander von Bach", "text": "Baron Alexander von Bach\n\nBaron Alexander von Bach (German: \"Alexander Freiherr von Bach\"; 4 January 1813, Loosdorf, Austria - 12 November 1893, Schöngrabern, Austria) was an Austrian politician. His most notable achievement was instituting a system of centralized control at the beginning of the reign of Emperor Franz Joseph I of Austria.\n\nBorn in Loosdorf, Lower Austria, he came from a legal background, with his father holding a judicial office. At the age of 24 he was made a doctor of laws, and then entered the Imperial service, where he remained for nine years. Seen as an up-and-coming, young radical, Adolph Schwarzenberg noted that 'his motto must have been \"to improvise is to change, to be perfect is to change often\"'. In this way, he was a well-known liberal lawyer, and was first called a \"minister of barricades\", before he served as Minister of Justice in 1848 and 1849, and then moving on to Minister of the Interior from 1849 to 1859.\n\nAlthough he favored a departure from the absolute system of Metternich, Bach was not prepared to go so far as the Revolutionaries of 1848 wished. In his views, he has been called a man who was 'quite wonderfully unprincipled' and so could change his position often. This allowed him to be driven into conservative ranks by popular opposition: he gradually adhered to conservative views, endorsing the centralizing constitutional program of Prince Schwarzenberg in March 1849, thus further inflaming Hungarian sentiments. However, the impact of his reforms on Hungary has been the contest of many historical debates. Some viewed the Revolution as far more productive in recreating the Hungarian \"national identity\", whereas some contemporaries of later Hungarian revolutions saw the systems created by Bach as the foremost driver in Hungarian nationalism.\n\nAfter the death of Schwarzenberg in 1852, he largely dictated policy in Austria and Hungary. Bach centralized administrative authority for the Austrian Empire, but he also endorsed reactionary policies that reduced freedom of the press and abandoned public trials. He represented later the Absolutist (or \"Klerikalabsolutist\") direction, which culminated in the concordat of August 1855 that gave the Roman Catholic Church control over education and family life. This period in the history of the Austrian Empire would become known as the era of \"neo-absolutism\", or Bach's absolutism.\n\nBach was created Baron (\"Freiherr\") in 1854. He was also the guardian of Science Academy (\"Akademie der Wissenschaften\") in 1849–59.\n\nHis fall in 1859 was highly caused by the failure in the Italian war against the Kingdom of Sardinia and Napoleon III. His reforms of the military had led to industrialization being foregone to the army, with barracks taking place of factories and infrastructural expansion, weakening. After leaving his position, Bach served as Ambassador to the Holy See in 1859-1867 before dying in seclusion in 1893.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247775", "title": "1999 in Singapore", "text": "1999 in Singapore\n\nThe following lists events that happened during 1999 in the Republic of Singapore.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n-The last quarry on Pulau Ubin is closed.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247778", "title": "Jimmy King", "text": "Jimmy King\n\nJimmy Hal King (born August 9, 1973) is an American retired professional basketball player. King played in the NBA and other leagues. He is most famous for his time spent on the famed University of Michigan Wolverines Fab Five along with Ray Jackson, Juwan Howard, Chris Webber, and Jalen Rose, who reached the 1992 and 1993 NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Championship games as freshmen and sophomores. He played all four years at Michigan and averaged 15 points per game as a senior in 1995.\n\nHe was part of the University of Michigan Wolverines Fab Five, along with Ray Jackson and future NBA players Juwan Howard, Chris Webber and Jalen Rose, that reached the 1992 and 1993 NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Championship games as freshmen and sophomores. He was a starter for teams that reached the tournament four times. Before this, he was a high school All-American basketball player at Plano East Senior High School in Plano, a city north of Dallas, Texas. Although the Fab Five final four appearances have been forfeited, he was not among the players called before the grand jury (Robert Traylor, Webber, Rose, Maurice Taylor, and Louis Bullock) in the University of Michigan basketball scandal and was not found to have received large amounts of money.\n\nKing was selected by the Toronto Raptors in the second round (35th overall) of the 1995 NBA Draft and played 62 games for them during the 1995–96 season, averaging 4.5 points, 1.8 rebounds and 1.4 assists per game. On July 24, 1996, before the start of the 1996–97 season, he was traded to the Dallas Mavericks in exchange for Ronald \"Popeye\" Jones, but King was eventually waived. After playing most of the 1996–97 season with the Quad City Thunder of the CBA, he signed with the Denver Nuggets on a 10-day contract, but participated in only two games for them, tallying six points, two rebounds, two assists and three steals.\n\nKing also played a few seasons in Europe and with the Continental Basketball Association (CBA) where he was the 1998 league MVP with the Quad City Thunder. He played for the US national team in the 1998 FIBA World Championship, winning the bronze medal. He also played for the Asheville Altitude in the NBDL.\n\nKing's last chance to return to the NBA came before the 2000–01 NBA season where King was the final player cut on the defending Eastern Conference champion Indiana Pacers.\n\nIn a phone interview on the Jim Rome Show on November 30, 2006, King stated he was working as a financial advisor for Merrill Lynch on Wall Street. During the 2008–09 Michigan Wolverines season King served as a radio color commentator.\n\nCurrently, King is the Program Director of H.Y.P.E. Athletics Community, a nonprofit organization which provides academic, athletic, and citizenship mentoring for youth in the Detroit area, and President of J King Solar Technologies.\n\nThe March 13, 2011 airing of the ESPN films \"30 for 30\" documentary \"The Fab Five\" sparked national outrage that led to a series of media exchanges between members of the press, Michigan Wolverines men's basketball players, including King, and Duke Blue Devils men's basketball players in forums such as \"The New York Times\", \"The Wall Street Journal\" and \"The Washington Post\".\n\nIn August 2011, King was detained by police for failure to pay $17,000 in back child support for his 17-year-old son. He was incarcerated at Michigan's Oakland County Jail along with Jalen Rose, who was serving time for a DUI arrest. On January 27, 2012, the case against King was dismissed after he paid the $17,000 in full.\n\nIn 2016, King began his coaching career as he became the head coach of the Ecorse Community High School men's basketball team in Ecorse, Michigan.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247788", "title": "Helen Grace Scott Keenan", "text": "Helen Grace Scott Keenan\n\nHelen Grace Reswick Scott Keenan (June 16, 1915 — November 20, 1987), more commonly, Helen Grace Scott, was a United States citizen employed in the Office of Strategic Services and later the Office of U.S Chief Counsel for Prosecution of Axis War Criminals on the staff of Justice Robert H. Jackson during World War II. She was also a broadcaster for Free France in Brazzaville, and later in life, as Helen G. Scott, was a close associate of François Truffaut and other French filmmakers.\n\nHelen Grace Reswick was born in Brooklyn, New York, the daughter of William Reswick and Bessie Schwartz Reswick. She and her brothers were raised in Paris, where their father worked as a journalist with the Associated Press. William Reswick, who was born in Ukraine, was also a correspondent in Moscow from 1922 to 1934, and wrote a memoir of his time there. She was fluent in English and French from childhood.\n\nDuring World War II, Reswick was a radio broadcaster for Free France, based in Brazzaville. After the war, she was a press attache to Justice Robert H. Jackson at the Nuremberg trials. She was recognized later for her wartime work: in 1965, she was awarded the Commemorative medal for voluntary service in Free France, and in 1986 she was named a Chevalier of the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres.\n\nBetween 1933 and 1938, Helen Scott served on the Executive Committee of the Workers Alliance, a Comintern affiliate front organization. In 1944, she worked for Congressman Boulton. Keenan had been a freelance journalist in the 1930s before beginning work in the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs (OCIAA) as a writer and editor in 1945. She first worked for the New York line of KGB, then later the Washington, D.C. branch of the KGB. \n\nHelen Grace Scott Keenan's code name in Soviet intelligence, and later as deciphered by the Venona project is \"Fir\" (or \"Spruce\"). \"Firtree\" and \"El\" also occurred. Keenan is referenced in the following Venona decryptions:\n\n\nScott worked as a senior editor at the United Nations headquarters, and from 1959 to 1965 at the French Film Office in New York, as director of public relations. She worked with many French and American filmmakers in this role, including Robert Benton, Milos Forman, Jacques Tati, Alain Resnais, and Jean-Luc Godard. She wrote the English subtitles of French-language films, including \"Manon of the Spring\" and \"Jean de Florette\".\n\nShe assisted François Truffaut as the interpreter in his conversations with Alfred Hitchcock, using both her language skills and her specialized knowledge of film. She collaborated with Truffaut in writing the resulting book, \"Hitchcock/Truffaut\" (1966). She wrote additional dialogue for Truffaut's \"Fahrenheit 451\" (1966), and was among the writers nominated for a Hugo Award when that film was a finalist for Best Dramatic Presentation in 1967. She translated another book of Truffaut's, \"The Adventures of Antoine Doinel\" (1971). Scott was Truffaut's confidante, and their correspondence offers insight into his personal life and relationships.\n\nScott appeared in uncredited cameos in Godard's \"Weekend\" (1967) and Truffaut's \"Bed & Board\" (1970). She also appears in archival footage in the 2015 documentary \"Hitchcock/Truffaut\".\n\nHelen G. Scott was divorced. She died in Paris in 1987, aged 72 years, from a heart attack. Her gravesite is in Montmartre Cemetery, not far from Truffaut's.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247791", "title": "Birzeit University", "text": "Birzeit University\n\nBirzeit University (BZU; ) is a private non-profit organization, registered by the Ministry of Social Affairs as charitable organization and accredited by the Ministry of Higher Education as a public university located in Birzeit, West Bank, near Ramallah. Established in 1924 as an Elementary School for girls, Birzeit became a University in 1975.\n\nBirzeit University offers graduate and undergraduate programs in information technology, engineering, sciences, social policy, arts, law, nursing, pharmacy, health sciences, economics, and management. It has 9 faculties, including a graduate faculty. These offer 47 B.A. programs for undergraduate students and 26 M.A. programs for graduate students. As of 2018, around 14,000 students are enrolled in the university's bachelor's, master's and PhD programs.\n\nBirzeit School for Girls was founded in 1924 by Nabiha Nasir (1891-1951) as an elementary school for girls from Birzeit and the surrounding villages. It was one of the first schools in the region. In 1930, it broadened its scope to become a co-educational secondary school, and in 1932, it was renamed Birzeit Higher School. In 1942, the name was changed to Birzeit College. In 1953, a freshman higher education class was incorporated, followed by a sophomore class in 1961.\n\nThe year 1948 was a turning point in the history of Birzeit College. By the spring, the political situation looked precarious, and Birzeit administrators worried that the school year which normally ended in June would be interrupted by events connected with the withdrawal of British forces and the end of the British Mandate lasting since 1917. The administrators decided to complete the semester curriculum by April, scheduling the graduation ceremony for April 30, 1948 and to be held under the auspices of Abd al-Qadir al-Husayni, the chief commander of the Army of the Holy War. However, he was killed on April 8 at the battle of Al-Qastal by the Jewish paramilitary force Haganah, who were defending positions on that hill on the outskirts of Jerusalem.\n\nIn 1975, Birzeit College changed its name to Birzeit University. In April 1976, Birzeit University was accepted as a member of the Association of Arab Universities. University president Hanna Nasser was deported by Israel in 1974. He was allowed to return in 1993, with the signing of the Oslo accords as part of the peace process.\n\nThe university was closed from 1988 until 1992 by the Israeli army saying \"they were nests of anti-Israeli violence\". The university was the last of 6 in Israeli occupied territories to reopen.\n\nBirzeit University is governed by an autonomous Board of Trustees composed of educators and professionals from the Palestinian community. The board appoints the president of the university. It also confirms the appointment of vice-presidents and deans upon the recommendation of the president. The board approves the budget and general development plans presented to it by the university council.\n\nThe university follows a semester system, with two four-month semesters beginning in Autumn and Spring, and shorter two-month two semesters in summer. Support comes from numerous Palestinian, Arab, and international foundations, as well as from various individuals.\n\nThe university, through its nine faculties (Arts; Science; Business and Economics; Law and Public Administration; Engineering and Technology; Pharmacy, Nursing, and Health Professions; Education; and Graduate Studies, Art Music and Design), provides academic programs(76 programs) that end in bachelor's degrees, such as the major/minor programs.\n\nThese faculties, in addition to the Graduate Studies faculty, offer 32 postgraduate programs that lead to master's degrees. The university also offers one Ph.D. program in social sciences.\n\nCurrently, there are a number of professors who are also appointed as ministers in the current Palestinian government. \nThirteen members of the Palestinian negotiating team in U.S.-sponsored Middle East peace talks were faculty members of Birzeit University. Hanan Ashrawi taught literature there.\n\nThe South African-born sociologist Stanley Cohen worked at Birzeit in support of Palestinian staff and students while a Professor in Criminology at the Hebrew University between 1980 and 1996.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247793", "title": "Coronation Gulf", "text": "Coronation Gulf\n\nCoronation Gulf lies between Victoria Island and mainland Nunavut in Canada. To the northwest it connects with Dolphin and Union Strait and thence the Beaufort Sea and Arctic Ocean; to the northeast it connects with Dease Strait and thence Queen Maud Gulf. \n\nThe northwest point is Cape Krusenstern. South of that is Richardson Bay and the mouths (from west to east) of the Rae River, Richardson River and the large Coppermine River, Napaaktoktok River, and the Asiak River. The Tree River enters at the south center. At the southeast end is the large Bathurst Inlet. At the northeast end is Cape Flinders on the Kent Peninsula. In the center of the gulf lies the Duke of York Archipelago.\n\nThe gulf was named by Sir John Franklin in 1821, in honour of the coronation of King George IV. The environment and Native culture of the area were studied by Rudolph Anderson and Diamond Jenness in 1916 as part of the Canadian Arctic Expedition.\n\nThe mainland south of the gulf may have substantial diamond and uranium deposits. \n\nIn 2010, the Coronation Gulf was the site of maritime disaster, when the Clipper Adventurer ran aground on a rock shoal. The accident punctured the ship's ballast and fuel tanks, releasing pollution into the pristine waters, and stranded 128 passengers and 69 crew members until the CCGS Amundsen came to rescue them.\n"}
{"id": "2247796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247796", "title": "The Day the Country Died", "text": "The Day the Country Died\n\nThe Day the Country Died is the debut studio album by the English anarcho-punk band the Subhumans. The album was recorded in five days in June 1982 and was released in January 1983 through Spiderleg Records. It was later re-released on Bluurg, the band's own record label.\n\nThe album is influenced by the novel \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" by George Orwell. The most obvious sign of such an influence is the song \"Big Brother\"; Big Brother is the dictatorial political leader figure in Orwell's novel. The song revolves around how \"Big Brother is watching you\", and when Dick Lucas sings \"there's a TV in my front room and it's screwing up my head\", it is a comparison between the telescreen in the novel which monitored citizens constantly and excessive viewing of mass media. Today, there is a huge amount of video surveillance in the United Kingdom, showing the foresight of this subject matter. Like the novel, the album has dystopian overtones.\n\nIt also describes a world ravaged by war, most likely our world which arguably is, this is suggested by track titles such as \"Dying World\" and \"All Gone Dead\". The latter contains lyrics like \"So long to the world, that's what they said, it's 1984 and it's all gone dead\", which can be seen as another reference to \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\".\n\n\"The Day the Country Died\" is widely regarded as a classic punk rock album.\n\nFour of the tracks on the album had previously been performed by the Stupid Humans, the band that Bruce was in before forming Subhumans. \"All Gone Dead\", \"Ashtray Dirt\", \"Killing\" and \"New Age\" all appeared on the Stupid Humans’ 1980 demo tape.\nThe \"nihilist\" section, between \"I Don't Wanna Die\" and \"No\", is from the chorus of an earlier Subhumans track, \"Song No. 35\".\n\n\nProduction\n"}
{"id": "2247799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247799", "title": "Life with Louie", "text": "Life with Louie\n\nLife with Louie is a 1994-1998 American animated series. The show is based on the childhood of stand-up comedian Louie Anderson, growing up with his family in Wisconsin, although Anderson himself is from Minnesota.\n\nThe first two episodes aired in primetime on Fox, before moving to Saturday morning.\n\n\nThe show's intro involved the main character running toward a TV set, turning one of the set's dials, and showing a live-action video of Louie Anderson as an adult saying, \"Let me tell you about my family.\" Then after that showing clips of the show from Andy Anderson being pulled by sled dogs, Louie sticking chopsticks in his nose, to Louie jumping off a diving board at a swimming pool nearly wasting all the water and getting most of the other participants wet due to the fact of him being overweight, then the show's logo (in Pink) appears on the bottom left-hand corner of the screen, while the main character (wearing sunglasses) eats a dot while sitting on a raft while watching TV on a tire. The intro was used from season 2 to the last season. Season 1 episodes used a live-action intro by Louie Anderson talking to the audience about his childhood, then dissolving into the show.\n\nBased on the popularity of the show, various merchandise was released including apparel, videos of various episodes, a \"Lake Winnibigoshish\" CD-ROM comic book, and a book series for children. The book series was based on the various episodes of the show and contained six books in total. Kids' meal toys were also produced for several fast-food restaurant chains including Taco Bell (1996), Hardee's (1997), Jack in the Box (1997), and Dairy Queen (1999).\n\nFor a time, Life with Louie-branded Spaghetti-O's, in character shapes, were available.\n\nIn early January 2006, TVShowsOnDVD.com posted a news story that \"Life with Louie\" was going to be released on DVD in the US. The information came from Louie Anderson himself who mentioned this news on a radio program he was a guest on, KQRS-FM. There has been no other news since then and it is now unknown if this series will ever be released on DVD in the United States. However, three 2-episode sets were released in the United Kingdom in summer 2007 as \"Life with Louie: Volume 1\", \"2\", and \"3\". The sets were released through Boulevard Entertainment as part of the Jetix programming brand.\n\nThe series won three Emmy Awards. It also won the Humanitas Prize three times, which is more than for any other animated series.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247803", "title": "George Garrett (poet)", "text": "George Garrett (poet)\n\nGeorge Palmer Garrett (June 11, 1929 – May 25, 2008) was an American poet and novelist. He was the Poet Laureate of Virginia from 2002 to 2004. His novels include \"The Finished Man\",\" Double Vision\", and the Elizabethan Trilogy, composed of \"Death of the Fox\", \"The Succession\", and \"Entered from the Sun\". He worked as a book reviewer and screenwriter, and taught at Cambridge University and, for many years, at the University of Virginia. He is the subject of critical books by R. H. W. Dillard, Casey Clabough, and Irving Malin.\n\nGeorge Palmer Garrett was born in Orlando, Florida on June 11, 1929. He attended The Hill School. He graduated from the Sewanee Military Academy in Sewanee, Tennessee, in 1945. He earned his BA from Princeton University in 1952, having matriculated in 1947 and having attended Columbia University in 1948–49. He also received his MA (1956) and PhD (1985) from Princeton.\n\nGarrett served in the US Army (1946–47), and was stationed in Europe, in Leonding, Austria.\n\nHe began his teaching career as an assistant professor at Wesleyan University, Middletown, Connecticut (1957–60). After one year as a visiting lecturer at Rice University, he became associate professor of English at the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, where he taught for five years before accepting a post as professor of English at Hollins College (now University, Virginia, in 1967. In 1964–65 he was writer-in-residence at Princeton University. In 1971, he became professor of English and writer-in-residence at the University of South Carolina, Columbia, where he taught until 1973. From 1974 to 1977 he was senior fellow at the Council of the Humanities, Princeton University. He was then one year at Columbia University as adjunct professor (1977–78), one semester as writer-in-residence at Bennington College, Vermont, one semester at the Virginia Military Institute, and several years at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor (1979–84). In 1984 Garrett was appointed Henry Hoyns Professor of English at the University of Virginia, the position in which he continued until his retirement in December 1999.\n\nGarrett's service to the arts was substantial. He served a two-year term as president of the Associated Writing Programs (1971–73). A charter member of the Fellowship of Southern Writers, he was the organization's vice-chancellor (1987–93) and chancellor (1993–97). Over the years, he edited several magazines and book series. He was Contemporary Poetry Series editor at the University of North Carolina Press, Chapel Hill, 1962–68; and Short Story Series editor at the Louisiana State University Press, 1966–69. From 1958 to 1971 he was United States poetry editor for \"Transatlantic Review\" and, from 1965 to 1971 co-editor of \"Hollins Critic\". He was a contributing editor for \"Contempora\" and assistant editor of \"The Film Journal\". With Brendan Galvin he edited \"Poultry: A Magazine of Voice\"; and he was fiction editor at \"The Texas Review\".\n\nHe is well known for his Elizabethan trilogy, \"Death of the Fox\", \"The Succession\", and \"Entered from the Sun\", a body of work that is so imbued with its subject matter and time as to create the sense that he lived through it all, and had total recall of life in the respective courts of Queen Elizabeth I and James I. \"Death of the Fox\", the first of the books, raises questions about the nature of the form itself, and in fact all of Mr. Garrett's writing challenges the accepted ideas about the various forms in which he chose to work. The vast panorama of fictional and historical people that occupy the stage in the three novels is equaled by the beautifully drawn contemporary cast of characters in his other novels: the political novel \"The Finished Man\"; \"Do Lord, Remember Me\"; \"Which Ones Are the Enemy?\"; and \"The King of Babylon Shall Not Come Against You\". Garrett never repeated himself, and the variety of his output has perhaps been a bit daunting to the critical establishment of his time, American critics tending to prefer their subjects to be rather one-noted, consistent and readily classified as to type, or theme, or treatment.\n\nAlong with this profoundly rich body of work as a writer, George Garrett was utterly unparalleled in his generous treatment of other writers. Dozens of younger writers, both students of his and others with whom he came in contact, were helped at crucial points in their careers by Garrett. Until the last days of his life, he was interested in furthering the work of younger colleagues, and of people whose work he had been championing for decades. He was a widely beloved and even revered figure, a man about whom the poet R.H.W. Dillard said that when he once took someone's hand in friendship, he never let go.\n\nGarrett died at home in Charlottesville, Virginia, at the age of 78 of cancer. He had been diagnosed with cancer in 2006 after having suffered from myasthenia gravis for some years. He was buried at the University of Virginia Cemetery.\n\nGeorge Garrett's papers are housed in the Duke University Special Collections Library.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247804", "title": "Ageless Medley", "text": "Ageless Medley\n\nAgeless Medley was a 1983 (see 1983 in music) EP released by Amy Grant's record label, Myrrh Records. It was originally released as a double-sided 7 inch vinyl record and audio cassette tape EP single. Even though it was designed as purely a promotional tool, it reached the Top Ten of the Christian radio charts, and won the 1984 Grammy Award for Best Gospel Performance, Female. It was later featured on the CD and cassette releases of Grant's 1986 compilation album \"The Collection\".\n\nThe title is a reference to Grant's 1982 album \"Age to Age\", which is in turn a reference to a line in the lyrics of the song \"El Shaddai\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247814", "title": "Field bean", "text": "Field bean\n\nField bean is a general term for several plants found growing within fields or shrubbery and may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2247816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247816", "title": "Leimgruber–Batcho indole synthesis", "text": "Leimgruber–Batcho indole synthesis\n\nThe Leimgruber–Batcho indole synthesis is a series of organic reactions that produce indoles from o-nitrotoluenes 1. The first step is the formation of an enamine 2 using N,N-dimethylformamide dimethyl acetal and pyrrolidine. The desired indole 3 is then formed in a second step by reductive cyclisation.\n\nIn the above scheme, the reductive cyclisation is effected by Raney nickel and hydrazine. Palladium-on-carbon and hydrogen, stannous chloride, sodium hydrosulfite, or iron in acetic acid are also effective reducing agents.\n\nIn the initial enamine formation, dimethylamine (a gas) is displaced by pyrrolidine from the dimethylformamide dimethylacetal, producing a more reactive reagent. The mildly acidic hydrogens of the methyl group in the nitrotoluene can be deprotonated under the basic conditions, and the resultant carbanion attacks to produce the enamine shown, with loss of methanol. The sequence also can be performed without the pyrrolidine, via the N,N-dimethyl enamine, though reaction times may be much longer in some cases. In the second step the nitro group is reduced to -NH using hydrogen and a Raney nickel catalyst, followed by cyclisation then elimination of the pyrrolidine. The hydrogen is often generated in situ by the spontaneous decomposition of hydrazine hydrate to H and N in the presence of the nickel.\n\nThe reaction is a good example of a reaction that was widely used in industry before any procedures were published in the mainstream scientific literature. Many indoles are pharmacalogically active, so a good indole synthesis is important for the pharmaceutical industry. The process has become a popular alternative to the Fischer indole synthesis because many starting ortho-nitrotoluenes are commercially available or easily made. In addition, the reactions proceed in high chemical yield under mild conditions. \n\nThe intermediate enamines are electronically related to push–pull olefins, having an electron-withdrawing nitro group conjugated to an electron-donating group. The extended conjugation means that these compounds are usually an intense red colour.\n\nThe reductive cyclization of dinitrostyrenes (1) has proven itself effective when other more common methods have failed.\n\nMost of the standard reduction methods listed above are successful with this reaction.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247819", "title": "Yalong River", "text": "Yalong River\n\nThe Yalong River (Chinese: ,  \"Yǎlóngjiāng\",  \"Ya-lung Chiang\",  ) or Nyag Chu (Tibetan: ,  \"Nyag Qu\") is an long river in Sichuan province in southwestern China. It is a tributary of the Yangtze River. Its source is on the Tibet-Qinghai Plateau in southeast Qinghai, and its confluence with the Yangtze is in Panzhihua in southwestern Sichuan. Along its route, the Yalong travels between the Shaluli Mountains to the west and the Daxue Mountains to the east. In Liangshan Prefecture, the river wraps around the Jinping Mountains creating the Jinping Bend. Here, water from the Yalong River has been diverted under the mountains as part of the Jinping-II Dam hydroelectric project.\n\nThe Yalong is being heavily developed, primarily for hydroelectric power. A total of 23 dams are completed, under construction or planned for the river. Those dams are listed below from downstream to upstream.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247830", "title": "Bandarban District", "text": "Bandarban District\n\nBandarban (Burmese: ဗန်ဒါဗန် , , lit. \"The dam of monkeys\"), is a district in South-Eastern Bangladesh, and a part of the Chittagong Division. It is one of the three hill districts of Bangladesh and a part of the Chittagong Hill Tracts, the others being Rangamati District and Khagrachhari District. Bandarban city is the headquarters of the Bandarban district. Bandarban district (4,479 km) is not only the most remote district of the country, but also the least populous (population 292,900). There is an army contingent at Bandarban Cantonment.\n\nBandarban town is the hometown of the Bohmong Chief (currently King, or Raja, U Cho Prue Marma) who is the head of the Bohmong Circle. Of the other hill districts, Rangamati is the Chakma Circle, headed by Raja Devasish Roy and Khagrachari is the Mong Circle, headed by Raja Sachingprue Marma. Bandarban is regarded as one of the most attractive travel destinations in Bangladesh. It also is the administrative headquarters of Bandarban district, which has turned into one of the most exotic tourist attractions in Bangladesh.\n\nThe three highest peaks of Bangladesh – Tahjindong (1280 meters, also known as Bijoy), Mowdok Mual (1052 meters), and Keokradong (883 metres) – are located in Bandarban district, as well as Raikhiang Lake, the highest lake in Bangladesh. Heights measured with Garmin GPSMAP60CSX GPS are Tahjindong (1280 meters), Mowdok Mual (1052 m), and Keokradong (1230 m). Chimbuk Peak and Boga Lake are two more highly noted features of the district. The Sangu River (also known as Sangpo or Shankha), the only river born inside Bangladesh territory, runs through Bandarban. The other rivers in the district are Matamuhuri and Bakkhali. Parts of Kaptai Lake, the biggest lake in Bangladesh, fall under the district.\n\nThe newly reported highest peak of Bangladesh, Saka Haphong (3488 ft), is also here in Thanchi upazila. Most Bangladesh sources cite Keokradong as the highest peak in the country, but Tazing Dong (sometimes spelled as Tahjingdong, and also known as Bijoy) lying further east is recognised both by government and expert sources as a taller peak. Measurements taken by English adventurer Ginge Fullen shows that an officially unnamed peak near the Myanmar border (locally known as Mowdok Mual) is the highest point in Bangladesh. Recently a team from Nature Adventure Club took part in an expedition in the Mowdok range and agreed with Fullen's statement. They put the height of this peak as 3488 feet with GPS accuracy of 3-metres. The unnamed summit is known as \"Saka Haphong\" to the local Tripura tribes.\n\nThe following is a list of mountain ranges in the area and the tallest peaks of each range:\n\nBandarban Sadar, Thanchi, Lama, Naikhongchhari, Ali kadam, Rowangchhari, and Ruma are the administrative sub-districts of Bandarban. Major road routes are:\n\n\nA nearly 52 km hill-town accommodates about 32,000 people, of whom the majority are Marma. There is a Tribal Cultural Institute here, which features a library and a museum. The town also features Bandarban Town Hospital, the District Public Library, Bandarban Government College, the District Stadium, , a cinema, the royal cemetery, and the Royal Palace (two of them since the 11th and 13th royal lines both claim the throne). Apart from the numerous and mosques, there is a temple dedicated to Kali, the most revered goddess of Hindus in Bangladesh, as well as a centre maintained by ISKCON. There is a Christian church named Fatima Rani Catholic Church, located at Jadi Para. It is led by the Congregation of Bangladesh Holy Cross Fathers.\n\nIn the early days of the 15th century, the Arakanese kingdom, where Mrauk U was the capital, expanded its territories to the Chittagong area of Bengal. After the victory of Arakan over Burma's Pegu kingdom in 1599 AD, the Arakanese king Min Razagyi appointed a Prince of Pegu, Maung Saw Pru, as the governor of newly established Bohmong Htaung (Circle) by giving the title of \"Bohmong\" Raja. That area was mostly populated by the Arakanese descendants and ruled by the Burmese (Myanmar) noble descendants who started to call themselves Marma in the Arakanese language. \"Marma\" is an archaic Arakanese pronunciation for Myanmar. As the population of the Bohmong Htaung were of Arakanese descent, these Myanmar-descent Bohmong chiefs (Rajas) of the ruling class took titles in Arakanese and speak a dialect of the Arakanese language.\n\nBandarban Hill District was once called Bohmong Htaung since the Arakanese rule. Once Bohmong Htaung was ruled by Bohmong Rajas who were the subordinates to the Arakanese kings. Ancestors of the present Bohmong dynasty were the successors of the Pegu King of Burma under Arakan's rule in Chittagong. In 1614, King Khamaung, the king of Arakan, appointed Maung Saw Pru as Governor of Chittagong who in 1620 repulsed the Portuguese invasion with great valour. As a consequence, the Arakanese king Khamaung awarded Maung Saw Pru the title of \"Bohmong\" () meaning \"Great General\". After the death of Maung Saw Pru two successors retained the Bohmong title. During the time of Bohmong Hari Gneo in 1710, the Arakanese King Sanda Wizaya (Candavijaya) recaptured Chittagong from the Mughals. Bohmong Hari Gneo helped King Sanda Vijaya in recapturing Chittagong and as a mark of gratitude the latter conferred on Bohmong Hari Gneo the grand title of \"Bohmong Gree\" ()) which means \"great Commander-in-Chief\".\n\nDuring the British reign in 1790 \"The Raide of Frontier Tribes Act −22\" was passed which among other things envisaged the creation of Chittagong Hill Tracts District comprising the entire hilly region along the south eastern border of present-day Bangladesh, stretching right from Tripura in the north and Myanmar in the south. The act also provided for the appointment of a superintendent to discharge the administrative functions under the direct control and supervision of Divisional Commissioner of Chittagong. However, seven years later in 1797, the post of superintendent was re-designated as that of Deputy Commissioner.\n\nIn 1900 the \"Chittagong Hill Tracts Regulations 1900\" was enacted to provide a consolidated and broader legal framework for the administrative system. This Act with minor modifications constituted the fundamentals for the administration of three hill districts. Recognizing the special historical and geographical features of the place as well as uniqueness of tribal population, the Regulation of 1900 divided the entire district into three circles. Each circle was to be headed by a circle chief whose primary responsibility was to collect revenue, assisted by a Headman (Head of a Mouza) and a Karbari (Head of a Village) respectively at Mouza and village level. The Bohmong king was appointed as the Circle Chief of the Bohmong Circle. During the British period, the area of Bohmong circle under Bandarban and Lama Thana was operated as lowest administrative unit, with a Circle Officer as its head.\n\nDuring World War II the area saw the presence of a formidable British military presence that came to stand against a Japanese invasion. The tribes of these hills held the reputation of unyielding rebellion throughout history. During the Bangladesh Liberation War (1971) to gain independence from Pakistan, leaders of the tribal people sought allegiance with Pakistan government.\n\nChingla Mong Chowdhury Murruy, born 29 March 1949 Chandragona, Kaptai, Rangamati Hill District tracts. He was a well known footballer, before the liberation war and was the first Indigenous Marma to captain the Pakistan national team. He coached the BRTC, and was an advisor for BKSP football academy. He also earned a University Blue in athletics and received a national award in football the highest honour for sports in Bangladesh. He fought in the Liberation War in 1971 was stationed in Sector-1 (Z force, was given the honorary Captain title at the time of the liberation war) and fought until 16 December when the country was liberated. He died on 9 May 2012.\n\nThere are more than fifteen ethnic minorities living in the district besides the Bengalis, including: Marma, who are Arakanese descendants or Rakhine and are also known as Magh, Mru (also known as Mro or Murong), Bawm, Khyang, Tripura (also known as Tipra or Tipperah), Lushei (also known as Lushei), Khumi, Chak, Kuki, Chakma and Tanchangya (also spelt as Tenchungya), Kaibarta(Keot) and other indigenous Assamese ethnic groups.\n\nThe religious composition of the population in 1991 was 47.62% Muslim, 38% Buddhist, 7.27% Christian, 3.52% Hindu and 3.59% others. Religious institutions is Mosque 2070, Buddhist 900 (256 temples, 644 pagodas), Hindu temple 94 and Church 2.\n\nThe Mru, also known as Murong, who are famous for their music and dance. The Mru in major numbers have converted to the youngest religion in Bangladesh – \"Khrama\" (or \"Crama\") – a religion that prohibits much of their old ways. They are proposed as the original inhabitants of Bandarban. The Bawm are another major tribe here. Now converted almost totally to Christianity they have taken full advantage of the church to become the most educated people in the district. The Marma, also known as Magh, are of Arakanese descendants and Buddhists by religion, and are the second largest ethnic group in the hill districts of Bangladesh. The Chakma and the Tanchangya are also closely related. The Khumi live in the remotest parts of the district, and the group is thought to include yet unexplored/ unclassified tribes.\n\nThese ethnic groups are again divided in hundreds of clans and sects, principally dominated by four religious threads – Buddhism, Christianity, Hinduism and Animism. All these clans and groups are clustered into two major ethnic families – the hill people and the valley people – though since the Kaptai dam flooded the valley to give birth to Kaptai lake, the valley people have started to live on hill tops along the hill people.\n\nAs per the 2011 census, there were 215,934 Bengalis and 142,401 indigenous people in the district (36.67%).\n\nHeavily dependent on Jumm farming, which is a slash and burn agricultural technique, Bandarban produces little that is of economic value outside self consumption of the hill people, also known as Jumia. Fruits (banana, pineapple, jackfruit, papaya), masala (ginger, turmeric) and tribal textile are the major exports of the district, with tourism growing fast as a source of revenue. Much of the trade in fruit, like most other commerce in the district, has been taken over by Bengali settlers.\n\nClothes are mostly made of cotton, wool imported from Myanmar and silk cotton which is a rarity in most of Bangladesh. All cotton is spun and woven by hand. To promote local textile there now is a Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industry Corporation (BSCIC) centre in Bandarban together with a wonderful sales centre. BSCIC has also introduced mechanical spinning and weaving here.\n\nBamboo and tobacco grows in significant quantity, but largely is not considered as economically profitable products. Bamboo is used, along with canes, not just to make the traditional stilt houses, but is the material for most tribal craft, including the bamboo smoking pipe, a major health hazard. Some bamboo-craft and local-made cigarillos are now exported out of the district.\n\nTwo church-based development organisation – Christian Commission for Development in Bangladesh (CCDB) and Caritas are the major forces of development in the district. UNICEF is driving the education effort, which is mostly directed at younger children.\n\nPrime Minister Sheikh Hasina has inaugurated Bangladesh's highest road Thanchi-Alikadam in Bandarban through a video conference from Dhaka 2015. Construction work of Thanchi-Alikadam Road which is 2,500 feet above sea level has been finished at a cost of Tk Tk 1.17 billion under army supervision. It helps to speed up all aspects of people's development in the hill tracts including education and health.\n\nIndia–Myanmar Sabroom-Cox's Bazar railway link has been proposed to connect Sabroom-Khargachari-Rangamati-Bandarban-Satkania-Cox's Bazar and another rail link connecting Banderban to Tuipang in India.\n\nBandarban lies, by bus, eight hours away from Dhaka, two hours from Chittagong and three hours from Cox's Bazar. It is also possible to get there by a six-hour bus ride from Rangamati. The Buddha Dhatu Jadi, the Buddhist temple in Bangladesh, located in Balaghata, 4 km from the town. This place attracts many tourists every year. This Theravada Buddhist temple is made completely in the style of South-East Asia and houses the second largest statue of Buddha in Bangladesh. The waterfall named Shoilo Propat at Milanchari is another place tourists like to visit. The numerous Buddhist temples, known as \"kyang\" in local tongue, and bhihars in the town include the highly notable the Rajvihar (royal vihar) at Jadipara and the Ujanipara Bhihar. Bawm villages around Chimbuk, and Mru villages a little further off, are also lie within a day's journey from the town. Prantik Lake, Jibannagar and Kyachlong Lake are some more places of interest. Boat ride on the river Sangu is one of the main attraction here for tourists.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247831", "title": "Undead (film)", "text": "Undead (film)\n\nUndead is a 2003 Australian zombie science fiction comedy horror film written and directed by Michael and Peter Spierig and starring Felicity Mason, Mungo McKay and Rob Jenkins.\n\nAfter losing her family farm to the bank, local beauty pageant winner Rene (Felicity Mason), decides to leave the small town of Berkeley. A number of strange meteorites are seen falling nearby, turning the local inhabitants into zombies. Rene and other survivors hide in the home of gun nut and alien abductee Marion (Mungo McKay). Marion has a large cache of guns and a basement fallout shelter, but he never had a chance to stock it with food or water.\n\nThe group ventures outside to scavenge, but encounter the zombies. Marion shoots one in the head and discovers that such is the way to keep the creatures down. They abandon the house, going to the garage to get Marion's van. They try to flee, only to find a huge barrier surrounding the entire town, which Marion blames on the aliens that had taken him. There is also a slightly acidic rain that falls at very regular intervals and the group is careful not to get wet.\n\nLater, they are confronted by glowing, hooded figures. One by one, the group is either killed or pulled up into the clouds until only Rene is left. The aliens stop her and she is sprayed with the rain-like chemical, which turns out to be a cure for the infection. The aliens are actually there to keep the zombie infection from spreading. The \"abducted\" are floating in suspended animation above the clouds to keep them safe. Their job done, the aliens leave, unaware that Wayne (Rob Jenkins), presumed dead, managed to escape by plane and will spread the infection after they left.\n\nThe townspeople are rushed to the hospital to treat the injured. Unfortunately, Wayne transforms into a zombie, first infecting Marion and then spreading the plague once again.\n\nThe film ends at Rene's farm where the survivors are staying. The final shot is of the farm with a fenced-in area nearby, containing the zombified residents of Berkeley. Rene stands guard with a four barreled shotgun and a gas mask, waiting for the return of the aliens.\n\nThe film was given a 32% rating on the review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, which delivered the verdict \"This low-budget homage to the zombie genre borrows heavily from superior predecessors and revels in a pile of its own campiness -- neither original nor watchable enough to entertain.\" Another aggregator Metacritic gave it a \"generally unfavorable\" 34 out of 100.\n\nRoger Ebert said that \"\"Undead\" is the kind of movie that would be so bad it's good, except it's not bad enough to be good enough.\"\n\nHowever, David Stratton reviewed the film for \"Variety\" said it was a \"precociously inventive horror pic,\" although \"the film's threatened humans aren't a very likeable bunch and a grievously overlong running time reps a definite downer.\"\n\nIt was awarded the Fipresci Prize at the 2003 Melbourne International Film Festival for \"Daring to be everything that Australian films are not supposed to be: part of a popular, disreputable genre. We commend it as an entertainment that is also political while showing the pleasures of hands-on film-making.\"\n\n\"Undead\" was distributed by Imagine Entertainment in Australia, Warner Bros. in the United Kingdom and Lionsgate in the United States. It grossed A$149,590 at the box office in Australia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247836", "title": "Brahmanbaria District", "text": "Brahmanbaria District\n\nBrahmanbaria () is a district in east-central Bangladesh.\n\nBrahmanbaria District, which was previously a Sub Division of Comilla district (formerly Tippera district till 1960) was established in 1984. The district has 4 municipalities, 39 wards, 97 mahallas, 9 upazilas, 98 union parishads, 1081 moussakas and 1329 villages.\n\nAccording to the 2011 Bangladesh census, Brahmanbaria District had 538,937 households and a population of 2,840,498.\n\nBrahmanbaria district is divided into nine Subdivisions (previously known as Thanas or only one Towns) as below:\n\nThere are six Jatiyo Shangshad constituencies in Brahmanbaria district. These constituencies and the current Members of Parliament are:\n\nBrahmanbaria is one of the fastest growing districts in the country. The major industries of Brahmanbaria District have been: agriculture, fishing, power, and natural gas.\n\nThis district has the largest railway junction in the country at Akhaura.\n\nBrahmanbaria's Titas gas is the largest gas field of Bangladesh. It supplies natural gas to Dhaka and most other parts of the nation. Currently the government is drilling new wells. \n\nIn some other parts of Brahmanbaria, gas was found. It resulted in an abrupt fall in the price of gas. Many parts of the country people are using gas in many illegal ways. Now the government is trying to solve that issue.\n\nThere are about ten railway stations in the district. Recently the government of India shipped machines of the Palatana project from Kolkata to Agartala by using the Ashuganj river port on Meghna in Brahmanbaria district. To connect with India, government of both Bangladesh and India is building 15 km railway from Akhaura to Agartala.\n\nIn 2015 the District of Brahmanbaria, like the rest of Bangladesh, faced problems of road blocks due to political agitation. The situation did not last very long before being resolved. This region also faced with clashing between two groups. In 2015 a man was killed for facing problems between two groups. Former Chief Justice of Bangladesh, Surendra Kumar Sinha had said while he was delivering his speech in Brahmanbaria that smuggling was hurting the national the economy. Gold and dollar are going out of the country, he said.\n\nIn April 2020, thousands of people defied COVID 19 lockdown to attend the funeral of a Muslim cleric.\n\nBrahmanbaria District is mostly farmland.Topographically, the district is a part of Gangaitic Plain. The administrative seat and largest city is Brahmanbaria. Akhaura and Ashuganj ranks also in top three. Prime minister of Bangladesh gave permission to use Ashuganj Port. In addition, Akhaura Station will be connected to Agartala.\n\nBrahmanbaria was a part of Samatata region of the ancient Bengal. The first and temporary capital of Isa Khan was at Sarail, located at 10 km north of Brahmanbaria Town. Brahmanbaria was made one of the 3 Sub-divisions of Comilla District by the British rulers in 1790. Brahmanbaria Municipality was established in 1868. It became part of East Pakistan in 1947 which eventually became independent Bangladesh in 1971. \n\nDuring the Mughal era, Brahmanbaria was famous for producing quality cloth Muslin.\n\nDuring 19th century, Brahmanbaria produced great nationalist leaders like Nawab Syed Shamsul Huda, who became president of All India Muslim League in 1921 and Barrister Abdur Rasul, a front ranking leader of Indian National Congress. When the swadeshi movement began in the wake of the partition of Bengal (1905), Brahmanbaria born revolutionary Ullaskar Datta (Aviram) was convicted for throwing bomb explosion and was deported to the Andamans.\n\nUpon encouragement of Oli Ahad, a pioneer Language Movement leader who hailed from Brahmanbaria, the movement obtained momentum in this district in 1952.\n\nDuring the War of Liberation in 1971, Bir Sreshtha Mohammad Mostafa Kamal faced a heroic death in an encounter with Pakistan Army at Daruin of Akhaura in Brahmanbaria district.\n\nOne of the most distinguished military general of the Bangladesh Army Major General Shakil Ahmed who was killed in the BDR mutiny on 25th february 2009 also hailed from Brahmanbaria.\n\nIn 2015, a pot of 200-year-old coins was found in District's Akhaura Upazila. There were nearly 500 coins at the Temple of Durga in Mogra Union. The coins contained the image of British Queen Elizabeth-I and were from 1804, 1814 and 1836. Police said the coins were handed over to archaeology department.\n"}
{"id": "2247839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247839", "title": "Banded demoiselle", "text": "Banded demoiselle\n\nThe banded demoiselle (\"Calopteryx splendens\") is a species of damselfly belonging to the family Calopterygidae. It's often found along slow-flowing streams and rivers. It's a Eurasian species occurring from the Atlantic coast eastwards to Lake Baikal and northwestern China.\n\nThis is a common species throughout much of its range.\n\nThis is a large damselfly with a total length of up to and a hindwing length of up to .\n\nMale and female are variable in color and pattern. The male has translucent wings which each have a broad, dark iridescent blue-black spot (or band) across the outer part. On immature dragonflies the spot is dark brown. The body can be a metallic blue or bluish green or a combination of both colours, depending on the time of year and location.\n\nThe dark wing patch of the male starts at the nodus (the slight dip midway down the upper edge of the wing) but can reach up to the wing-tip in southern races. In the very similar beautiful demoiselle (\"Calopteryx virgo\"), the dark patch starts before the nodus.\n\nThe female has translucent, pale green iridescent wings with a white patch near the tip (a pseudopterostigma), and a metallic green or bronze/green body.\n\nFemales can lay up to 10 eggs per minute for 45 minutes. They lay in a wide variety of emergent or floating plants, sometimes even submerging to do so.\n\nThe eggs hatch after 14 days. The larvae have very long legs and are stick-shaped. They develop over two years, usually. They tolerate muddy water and overwinter buried in mud. When they are ready to moult into an adult, they climb up a suitable reed or plant and shed their skin.\n\nThis species lives in many types of freshwater habitat, particularly open running water bodies such as streams and smaller rivers.\n\nMales are usually territorial, but large numbers can sometimes be found in lush bankside plants and on floating objects. They court females by opening their wings and performing an aerial dance. They are usually found in canals and quiet rivers with muddy bottoms located in open country.\n\nThe banded demoiselle is a Eurasian species, and is present throughout Eurasia from the Atlantic coast to Lake Baikal and north-western China. It occurs in Taganay and Zyuratkul National Parks of Russia. It can be found at Fruška Gora in Serbia. It's found throughout the British Isles, except for the Scottish Highlands.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247843", "title": "Khagrachhari District", "text": "Khagrachhari District\n\nfirst=Barendro Lal |year=2012\nThe Chittagong Hill Tracts was under the reign of the Tripura State, the Arakans and the Sultans in different times before it came under the control of the British East India Company in 1760. Although the British got the authority of the Chittagong Hill Tracts in 1760, they had no authority besides collecting nominal taxes. Until 1860, two kings or chiefs governed the internal \nadministration of this region. In 1860, another circle was formed in present Khagrachhari zila, inhabited by the Tripura population. The chief or the Raja of this circle was selected from the minority Marma population. The circle was named after the Tripura dialect the Mun Circle, but later, the 'Mun dialect', was changed and renamed as Mong Circle. In 1900 the British offered independent status to Chittagong Hill Tracts recognizing the culture and language of the hill tracts population. But during The Partition of Indian sub-continent this status was abolished and became part of East-Bangladesh, ruled under Pakistan. Then, the name of this subdivision was Ramgarh with its headquarters at Khagrachhari. It was upgraded to zila in 1983. The zila headquarters is located on the bank of the 'Chengi' stream (meaning Chhara in local language) which was full of Catkin plants (meaning Khagra in local language). It is believed that the zila might have derived its name from the above two words 'Khagra' and 'Chhara'. Khagrachhari Local Govt. Council was established on 6 March 1989 to uphold the political, social, cultural, educational and economic right and to expedite the process of socio-economic development of all residents of Khagrachhari Hill District. According to 'Peace Accord' this council was renamed as “Khagrachari Hill District Council (KHDC)” by the Act-10 of 1998. Now this council has been regarded as the main focal point of administration as well as development activities of the district.\n\nKhagrachari is a hilly area. It is bounded by the tripura state of India on the north, Rangamati and chittagong districts on the south, Rangamati district on the east, Chittagong District and Tripura state of India on the west. Notable hill ranges are Golamoon, Chotto Panchari, Karmi Mura, Lutiban, Kuradia, Bhanga Mura, Jopisil.\n\nIt has three rivers, namely Chengi, Feni and Maini. Chengi is the longest river in Khagrachhari. The main ethnic groups living in the district are Tripuris, Chakmas, Bengalis and Marmas.\n\nAccording to Bangladesh Population Census 2011, total Population is 6,13,917, with an annual growth rate of 1.54%; male 3,13,793, female 300,124; Muslim 3,82,849, Hindu 89,102, Buddhist 1,39,603 Christian 2157 and others 207. Indigenous communities such as Tipra/Tripuri(Tripura), Rakhaine, Chakma, Marma and \nTanchangya belong to this zilla.\n\nAs per the 2011 Census, there were a total of 316,987 indigenous people in the district (51.63%).\n\nUpazilas under this district are:\n\nKhagrachhari district consist of 3 Paurashava,9 Upazila/Thana,38 Union,122 Mauza,27 Ward,153 Mahalla and 1,702 Villages. The upazilas are Dighinala, Khagrachhari Sadar, \nLakshmichhari, Mahalchhari, Manikchhari, Matiranga, Panchhari, Ramgarh and Guimara.\nDeputy Commissioner (DC): Muhammad Wahiduzzaman \n\nChairman of Hill District Council: Mr. Kongjari Chowdhury\n\nMost of the people live on Jhum cultivation. There are also people of various professions like Teacher, Farmer and Businessmen.\n\nMain sources of income Agriculture 59.92%, non-agricultural labourer 9.33%, industry 0.44%, commerce 10.67%, transport and communication 1.11%, service 7.94%, construction 0.92%, religious service 0.24%, rent and remittance 0.37% and others 9.06%.\n\nLiteracy rate (7+ year) 46.1%; male 51.9%, female 40.1%. Rate of school going student is 83%.There have 18 colleges, 71 high schools,13 madrasa and different kinds of educational institutions. Noted educational institutions: Khagrachhari Government College (1974), Matiranga Degree College (1992), Ramgarh Government Degree College (1980), Panchhari College (1990), Dighinala Government College, Khagrachhri Cantonmet public school and college(2006), Panchhari High School and College (1981), Khagrachhari Government High School (1957), Tabalchhari TK High School (1952), Ramgarh Government High School (1952), Rani Nihar Devi Government High School (1976), Dighinala Government High School, Choto Merung High School(1975), Khagrachhari North Khobongpodia Government Primary School (1905).\n\nSource\n\nAmong the archaeological heritages and relics, Rajbari of the Mong Circle and \nDighi (large pond) of Dighinala (excavated by Gobindo Manikko exiled king of Tripura) are notable.\n\nPalanquin, elephant cart, buffalo cart, horse carriage, bullock cart and country boat were the traditional transports once found in the rural area of the zila. These means of transport are either extinct or nearly extinct except country boat. Now-a-days, all the upazilas are connected to the zila headquarters by metalled roads. Bus, minibus, three wheelers ply over the zila. Chander Gari (local four wheeled jeep) is a popular transport used to ply in the hill area of the zila.\n\nTemperature and Rainfall: The annual average temperature of the zila varies from maximum 34.6 °C to minimum 13 °C and the average annual rainfall is 3031 mm.\n\nKhagrachhari Seat 298: Kujendra Laal Tripura (from Awami League). Before Kejendra Laal Tripura, Jatindra Laal Tripura and then Wadud Bhuiyan was the Member of Parliament of Khagrachhari Seat 298. He was also the Chairman of the Chittagong Hill Tracts Development Board at that period. Wadud Bhuiyan was two times MP.A.K.M alim Ullah was two times MP\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247847", "title": "Lakshmipur District", "text": "Lakshmipur District\n\nLakshmipur or Laxmipur District (, \"Lakshmipur Jela\" also \"Lakshmipur Zila\") with an area of 1455.96 km², is a district of Bangladesh. It is bordered by Chandpur District to the north, Bhola and Noakhali districts to the south, Noakhali District to the east, and Barisal and Bhola districts to the west.\n\nThe upazilas under this district are:\nThe district of Lakshmipur consists of 4 municipalities, 58 union parishads, 514 villages, 3539 mosques, 45 temples, and 1 church.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247851", "title": "Kate Walsh (singer)", "text": "Kate Walsh (singer)\n\nKate Walsh (born 20 February 1983) is an English singer from Burnham-on-Crouch, Essex, England.\n\nA graduate of the Brighton Institute of Modern Music, her first album was \"Clocktower Park\" (produced by Lee Russell), released in 2003 by Kitchenware Records. The album was named for a meeting place in her home town. In 2007, she released her second album, \"Tim's House\". It quickly became the No. 1 album on the UK iTunes Store. The album also features her most popular song, \"Your Song\". Her big break came when she gained iTunes customers' attention when her song \"Talk of the Town\" became the iTunes Free Single of the Week from the week beginning 20 March 2007.\n\nHer third studio album, Light and Dark, was released in the UK on 31 August 2009. The lead single from the record, June Last Year, was released on 24 August. She is set to begin her UK tour at the end of September.\n\nHer single \"Your Song\" was featured on the 2008 film \"Angus, Thongs and Perfect Snogging\" as well the 2008 film \"The Crew\" and the 2010 film, \"The Decoy Bride\". In 2011, she discussed the release of her newest album \"The Real Thing\" and her tour.\n\nOn 5 September 2012 she announced on her Facebook page that she would be taking an indefinite hiatus from her music career to do something else: \"By taking time out and putting some distance between me and my songs I am now, for the first time, able to start letting go of the past and can begin to move forward in a new and exciting direction\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2247852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247852", "title": "Yurina Kumai", "text": "Yurina Kumai\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247859", "title": "George Walbridge Perkins", "text": "George Walbridge Perkins\n\nGeorge Walbridge Perkins I (January 31, 1862 – June 18, 1920) was an American politician and businessman. He was a leader of the Progressive Movement, especially Theodore Roosevelt's Progressive party of 1912. Starting as an office boy he became a leading executive in insurance, steel and banking, always on the alert for new and better ways to do business. He was a top aide to financier J. P. Morgan, and handled complex issues involving U.S. Steel, International Harvester, and other large corporations and insurance companies. He was vice-president of New York Life Insurance Company and a partner in J.P. Morgan & Co. He served as president of the Palisades Interstate Park Commission from its creation in 1900 until his death in 1920.\n\nPerkins was born on January 31, 1862 in Chicago, Illinois.\n\nWith only a high-school education, he began work as an office boy in the Chicago office of the New York Life Insurance Company. By 1898 he had risen to the position of vice president. Perkins played an important role in the development of New York Life.\n\nA strong believer in the Efficiency Movement, he sought out instances of waste and believed that any practice could be improved by careful analysis. For example, he noticed that the old routine of farming out territory to middlemen, who in turn appointed men who did the actual soliciting for policies, was inefficient. The local agents were underpaid and often made misrepresentations in order to get initial premiums. Perkins, starting in 1892, made the local agents and solicitors permanent employees. In 1896, he introduced an incentive with a system of benefits based on length of service and value of policies written. He opened up new insurance markets in Russia and elsewhere in Europe.\n\nPerkins joined J.P. Morgan & Co. in 1901 and negotiated many complex deals, especially the formation of the International Harvester Corporation, International Mercantile Marine Co., and Northern Securities Company. He also helped reorganize Morgan's United States Steel Corporation.\n\nIn 1910 Perkins began to pursue Progressive Era reform causes. Perkins was an articulate exponent of the evils of competition and the advantages of cooperation in business— he believed in the \"Good Trust\". His biographer, John A. Garraty, summarized Perkins' business philosophy as follows:\n\nIn 1912 he helped organize Theodore Roosevelt's new Progressive party, becoming its executive secretary. At the convention, an antitrust plank was suddenly dropped, shocking reformers like Gifford Pinchot, who saw Roosevelt as a true trust-buster. They blamed Perkins, who was still on the board of U.S. Steel and remained on it until his death. Perkins's ties to big business alarmed the radical wing of the party. After 1913, he focused on New York City politics while he continued as Progressive National Chairman. In 1916 he campaigned for Charles Evans Hughes and the GOP. The result was a deep split in the new party that was never resolved. Perkins was in effective control of the party in 1913, but the Progressives fared poorly in local elections. He went public with his denunciations of antitrust programs, arguing, \"The country knows that the Progressive Party believes that large business units are necessary in this day of interstate and inter-national communication and trade.\"\n\nIncreasingly at odds with Progressives hostile to big business and humbled by the party's very poor showing in the 1914 elections, Perkins watched his Progressive Party support the Republican presidential candidate (Charles Evans Hughes) in 1916, after which the party and soon disintegrated.\n\nOn September 7, 1917, the New York State Senate rejected his nomination as Chairman of the recently-established New York State Food Control Commission. On October 2, the State Senate rejected again his nomination and instead confirmed the appointment of John Mitchell, Jacob Gould Schurman and Charles A. Wieting to the Food Control Commission.\n\nAs chairman of a finance committee of YMCA, he raised $200,000,000 for welfare work among American soldiers abroad.\n\nIn 1900, Theodore Roosevelt (then New York governor) appointed Perkins president of the newly formed Palisades Interstate Park Commission. It had been formed with the aim of stopping the destruction of the Palisades, a line of steep cliffs along the west side of the lower Hudson River, in northeast New Jersey and southern New York. Although the Palisades and the Hudson Highlands were admired for their beauty, and were featured in paintings of the Hudson River School, they were also viewed as a rich source of traprock (basalt) by quarrymen seeking to provide building material for the growth of nearby Manhattan Island. By the early 1900s, development along the lower Hudson River had begun to destroy much of the area's natural beauty. The Commission was authorized to acquire land between Fort Lee, New Jersey and Piermont, New York; its jurisdiction was extended to Stony Point, New York in 1906.\n\nThe Commission was expected to raise the funds needed for the acquisition of land from private sources. Needing at least $125,000, Perkins turned first to J. P. Morgan, who offered to put up the entire sum on the condition that Perkins would become a Morgan partner. Perkins agreed, with the immediate result that quarrying along the Palisades was stopped on December 24, 1900.\n\nThen, in 1908, the State of New York announced plans to relocate Sing Sing Prison to Bear Mountain. Work was begun and in January 1909, the state purchased the 740 acre (3.0 km²) Bear Mountain tract. Conservationists, inspired by the earlier work of the Park Commission, lobbied successfully for the creation of the Highlands of the Hudson Forest Preserve. However, the prison project was continued.\n\nWorking with Union Pacific Railroad president Edward Henry Harriman and (after Harriman's death) with his widow, Mary Averell Harriman, Perkins, arranged a gift to the state of ten thousand acres (40 km²) and one million dollars from the Harrimans toward the creation of a state park. Another $1.5 million was raised from a dozen wealthy contributors including John D. Rockefeller and Morgan. New York state appropriated a matching $2.5 million. Bear Mountain-Harriman State Park became a reality in 1910 when the prison was demolished. Perkins hired Major William A. Welch as Chief Engineer, whose work for the park would achieve national influence as state and national park systems grew. The Perkins Memorial Tower at Bear Mountain State Park commemorates his work for the park; the view from the tower takes in four states and the Hudson River valley, including New York City.\n\nPerkins died on June 18, 1920. He is buried in Woodlawn Cemetery in the Bronx, New York City.\n\nIn 1903, George W. Perkins purchased Wave Hill House in Riverdale, Bronx on the East side of the Hudson. He had been accumulating properties since 1895 to create a great estate along the river, including Oliver Harriman's adjacent villa on the site of what is now Glyndor House. Perkins planned the grounds to enhance the property's beautiful river views and added greenhouses, a swimming pool, terraces and the recreational facility; rare trees and shrubs were planted on the lawns, and gardens were created to blend with the natural beauty of the Hudson highlands. The property is now Wave Hill, a public botanical garden and cultural center.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247860", "title": "Adobe Premiere Express", "text": "Adobe Premiere Express\n\nAdobe Premiere Express was a rich Internet application for simple editing of digital video files.\n\nThe release was announced on February 21, 2007. The program itself is served as a free tool for users of YouTube, Photobucket, and MTV.com.\n\nAdobe Premiere Express first started off on Photobucket as a way of remixing videos and pictures that were uploaded onto a member's album or making slideshows. Photobucket has been using Adobe Premiere Express since February 2007. Later, MTV acquired Express on their website as a way of remixing music videos for contests, games, or for fun.\n\nAs Adobe Systems allowed websites to contact them to request Express, YouTube received it on their website as a way of remixing videos on a member's YouTube account. Known as \"YouTube's Video Remixer\", it was found on TestTube at . It was later taken down.\n\nAs of August 2016, this application, along with Adobe Revel is no more. Adobe has announced that they will be completely shutting down the Adobe Revel services on August 31st, 2016.\n"}
{"id": "2247865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247865", "title": "Beautiful demoiselle", "text": "Beautiful demoiselle\n\nThe beautiful demoiselle (\"Calopteryx virgo\") is a European damselfly belonging to the family Calopterygidae. It is often found along fast-flowing waters where it is most at home.\n\nSubspecies include:\n\nFemales lay up to 300 eggs at a time on emergent or floating plants, often on water-crowfoot. Like the banded demoiselle, they often submerge to do so. The eggs hatch after around 14 days. Again, like the banded demoiselle, the larva is stick-like with long legs and develops over a period of two years in submerged vegetation, plant debris or roots. They usually overwinter in mud or slime.\n\nThe larvae of the beautiful demoiselle develop over 10 to 12 stages, each of which takes place between a molt. The body length is variable and highly dependent on environmental conditions. The final stage (F-0-stage) larvae are 3.5 to 4.6 millimeters and weigh about 4 milligrams, slightly below the banded demoiselle. Apart from the larvae of the demoiselles are difficult to distinguish from each other, the apparent differences lie mainly in the bristles and the severity of the tracheal gills on their abdomen. Compared to other damselflies demoiselles larvae fall immediately on the other hand, due to their much shorter mean gill lamella.\n\nThe body of the larvae shows only a relatively small adjustment to the fast-flowing waters of their habitat. The body is not flattened but very slim and turning around, the legs are long and have its end with strong claws, with which it can be stated in the vegetation. Because they reside within the water body, but mainly in the quieter areas, the danger of being swept with the flow, is relatively low. If this happens, they clearly its long body and legs stretched as far as possible to get in touch with the vegetation or the substrate to come.\n\n\"Calopteryx virgo\" can reach a body length of , with a length of hindwings of . These large, dark damselflies have small hemispherical eyes located laterally on the head, two pair of wings similar in shape and a slender abdomen. The basal area of the wings is transparent, otherwise wings are uniformly colored. The wings are also traversed by a dense network of veins. This species presents an evident sexual dimorphism in colour pattern.\n\nThe male usually has much more extensive pigmentation on the wings than other \"Calopteryx\" species in its range: in the south east of its range (the Balkans and Turkey) the wings are entirely metallic blue while in other areas, there are clear areas at the base and tip of the wing. Immature males show brown wings, as the metallic blue wing color develops only with age. They have metallic blue-green bodies and blue-green eyes.\n\nThe female has dark brown iridescent wings, a white patch near the tip of the wings (called a pseudopterostigma) and a metallic green body with a bronze tip of the abdomen.\n\nThis species is rather similar to The Banded Demoiselle (\"Calopteryx splendens\"), other British damselfly with coloured wings.\n\nThe distribution of the beautiful demoiselle covers all of Europe with the exception of the southwestern Iberian Peninsula, the Balearic Islands and Iceland. In the north it extends to the Arctic polar sea, and thus much further north than that of the banded demoiselle. On the North African Mediterranean coast, its southern populations in Morocco and Algeria can be found.\nThe northern boundary in Asia following the 13-°C July isotherm, it is therefore not in the areas where the average temperature in summer below 13 °C falls, otherwise they are met with in temperate and cool regions in the entire continent with the exception of deserts and the mountains of. The eastern subspecies of \"C. v. japonica\" found on the Japanese islands is under debate as to whether it is a separate species.\nThe beautiful demoiselle is mostly found in lowland locations. Regular findings come from areas up to a maximum height of 980 m above sea level. Occasionally they may be found up to 1,200 meters in altitude, such as in the Alps.\n\nThe blue-winged demoiselle lives mainly near small to medium-sized streams and creeks. They prefer a relatively low water temperature and a moderate to fast flow. The water must not be nutrient rich (eutrophic). In the northern part of their range, such as in Norway and Finland, it is also found near medium-sized rivers or even larger streams. The waters are usually in the immediate vicinity of forests.\n\nThe larvae live in the streams mentioned before and are mainly dependent on the water plants. The larvae need the stems and leaves, especially in areas with stronger currents to hold on. Hence it is extremely rare to find them in barren locations, flat expiring banks, or areas with a smooth stone floor. They also live in small natural lakes or ponds characteristic for limestones bedrock. They live in quieter areas between alluvial leaves or on exposed roots of the vegetation. They can be found on submerged plants such as waterweed (Elodea sp.), floods for water crowfoot (\"Ranunculus fluitans\") or other plants, submerged from a few centimetres to several decimetres.\nCompared with the larvae of the banded demoiselle the larvae of the blue-wing demoiselle prefer quieter areas of the water, since slower flow causes a more effective absorption of oxygen under water. Only in very rare cases the larvae are present in stagnant water. The substrate of the river has only a very minor importance, because the larvae reside mainly in the vegetation.\nAn important factor for the occurrence of blue-wing demoiselles is the oxygen in the water. The larvae is much more sensitive to oxygen deficiency than the larvae of the banded demoiselle, hence it needs a sufficient oxygen saturation of the water. Waters with high levels of sediment and sludge, which is consumed by bacterial decomposition of oxygen are, accordingly not as a habitat for the larvae. This sensitivity qualifies it in water chemistry as a bioindicator for the assessment of water quality. Thus they will be an indication of value in the saprobic assigned of 1.9, which represents a low to moderately polluted waters type (β-mesosaprob) and a water quality class from I to II does.\nAnother key factor for the occurrence of the larvae of the blue-wing demoiselle is the temperature of the water. This species prefers unlike the banded demoiselle, mainly the cooler and shadier areas of the water. The optimal temperature is a summer average 13 to 18 °C. At temperatures above 22 °C were often injuries of larvae observed and also a reduced hatch ability of eggs. The main reason is the oxygen content under higher temperatures. Individual populations may get used to permanently higher temperatures.\n\nThe habitat that the adults occupy, corresponds to the nearby larval habitat. Unlike the adults of the banded demoiselle you meet those of the beautiful demoiselle but also in forest clearings, but very rarely on the banks of larger ponds. As resting places, the animals need trees and shrubs, often resting on high herbaceous plants such as the large nettle (\"Urtica dioica\").\nThe breeding habitats are similar to the Larval habitat, these are cool, shady water-courses largely with a more or less strong current and near-natural vegetation and bank structure. This is mostly meadow and pasture streams in the area, they rarely pass through the forest. A distinct riparian vegetation also plays a role as a windbreak. Due to their broad wings the beautiful demoiselle can be blown away by the wind more easily than other species of dragonflies.\n\nMales are territorial, perching in bankside plants and trees, waiting for females or chasing. They chase passing insects, often returning to the same perch. Males can stray well away from water, females live away from water unless egg-laying or seeking a mate.\n\nAs with the banded demoiselle is also in the blue wing-demoiselle a pronounced territorial behavior of sexually mature males. These days occupy territories that they defend against other males. The defense consists mostly in threatening gestures. For this they spread their wings and put them on display so clearly visible, there is also Drohflügen and in rare cases to air combat between rival males. Optimal areas correspond to the optimal nesting places for the females and are characterized by a normally increased flow and a suitable oviposition substrate in the potential breeding sites from. The size of the spots and their distance apart is the density of the population dependent as well as the occurrences of the water and may be between several meters and a few decimetres. Males who do not occupy spots can keep themselves in the vegetation on the shore and try to mate with fly to females or to fill vacant spots. Especially when only a few males are present, the territorial defense is very aggressive, with a higher number of competing male aggression but decreases significantly.\nThe males sit in their areas mostly in exposed places in the vegetation, which extends over the water, sometimes on vegetation or rocks cushions amid the waters. This seat is waiting at the same time the center of the district they do their gaze primarily on the aquatic center and will show a behavior that is referred to as \"wings lapping\" and in which the wings beat quickly down and slowly lifted. It is believed that it is mainly used for communication, it also supports the ventilation in the thorax and accordingly probably also plays a role in thermoregulation of the animals\n\nMating takes place in a way that for the genus Calopteryx and is typical of an eye-catching advertising behavior precedes. The females fly over the water, always in search of suitable nesting places and fly it through the territories of males. The males who recognize the females to the reflections of the moving wings, fly towards it, once they have crossed the border area. They use a striking Schwirrflug that only in the courtship will be shown, and demonstrate the underside of its abdomen raised high. The last three segments of it are much brighter and are referred to as a \"lantern\" that will be presented. The male leads in this way, the female to the nesting sites (\"Show flight\") and circled it on the water once it has settled out. Then in turn followed by a period of hovering flight and only if the female is sitting there and so his willingness to mate signaled it comes to mating. In return, the male is on the wings of the female and begins copulation, which can last between 40 seconds and 5 minutes, the animals themselves in the \"mating wheel\" can rely on the vegetation.\n\nAfter mating, the male releases the female again and again shows this is the nesting place, the female abdomen with drooping sit for a few seconds (\"post-copulatory rest\") and then follows the male. The eggs are laid in the stems of aquatic plants in the water level and below, where the female can submerge up to 90 minutes. It climbs here (unlike almost all other species of dragonflies) upside down on the stem down and stabs the eggs with the egg-laying apparatus ( ovipositor ) almost vertically into the stems. During the nesting above the water surface while the female is the male defended against other males. Both sexes mate several times a day for several weeks until her death.\nThe eggs, in which the embryos develop, are on average about 1.2 millimeters long and have a spindle-shaped structure with approximately 0.2 millimeters wide. At the pointed end are, as with other demoiselles also a hole structure ( Mikropylenapparat ) with four holes to enable penetration of the sperm of the male. In addition, the egg of the banded demoiselle at the front end a funnel-like appendix unknown object, which projects at the inserted egg outwardly from the plant stem. The color of the egg changes from a bright yellow when freshly laid eggs on a yellow-brown to reddish brown when older egg.\nWithin the egg takes place, the embryonic development of the dragonfly. For the first time this has been described for the blue-winged demoiselle 1869, but it represented the first description of the embryonic development of an insect at all. From outside the progression of the development by a slight change in length as well as by changing the shape is recognizable. It bulges on the upper part of the egg slightly, while the lower part deforms concave. The development itself can be divided into three sections:\n• the early development, when it forms after fertilization of the ovum by dividing the basic shape of body\n• definitely the development with the final formation of the body shape until they hatch from the egg\n• the larval development of the hatched larva up to the formation of the winged imago\n\nThe embryo in the egg can last between 20 days and one month.\n\nThe larval development of the Blue-winged demoiselle takes into Middle Eastern waters, usually between six and nine weeks, mainly due to the preference of cooler waters, it is usually somewhat longer than that of the banded demoiselle. At the end of larval development, it comes to winter and the development until the following year with the metamorphosis to the imago completed (univoltine development). The cooler water is a breeding, the greater the proportion of larvae that pass through the two winter periods and therefore a development of nearly two years (semivoltine development). Studies have shown that this might modify the relationship between univoltine and semivoltinen larvae within a body of water and clear in the course of the river and increase the water temperature moves toward univoltiner larvae.\n\nLike all these predatory dragonfly larvae live. They feed primarily on insect larvae such as those of the black flies, midges, stoneflies and mayflies, as well as amphipods. They are defending their seats against other dragonfly larvae, especially those of its own kind.\n\nThe larvae are much more sensitive to changes in habitat than the banded demoiselle, especially to temperature fluctuations. Already after a few days deprivation increases mortality rapidly, and after again prevail acceptable oxygen conditions, it is still too long after, birth defects and an increased mortality rate among affected animals. This is mainly because they absorb the oxygen from the water inefficient. Was able to detect in experiments that even larvae of the banded demoiselle, who had been removed completely. The thin-skinned, tracheogenic body attachments for oxygen uptaking from the water, under normal circumstances are still less sensitive to fluctuations in the oxygen supply. The inefficiency of oxygen uptake is balanced by the choice of habitat, since both increased flow and cooler water absorption capacity.\n\nThe first adults of dragonflies emerge, depending on the weather, at the end of April to the end of September. The main hatching time lies in the days of late May to late June. The emergence, i.e. the transformation of the larvae to adults and the associated leaving the water, is not synchronous and lasts throughout the season until about mid-July. The newly hatched dragonflies spend after leaving the larval shell ( exuvia ) is the first time until full coloration in the vegetation surrounding the water body. This aging period usually lasts about 10 days, after which they return to the waters. The adult animals live only one season, it was a lifetime determined from about 40 to 50 days.\nThroughout the day there are males in sunlit waters are already in the early morning (in Central Europe between 7.00 and 9.00 o'clock), where they stay forever in the areas that are exposed directly. In the aquatic environment, shaded according to the animals appear later, usually basking in the tops of the surrounding vegetation. Females fly over during the day, the waters in search of suitable nesting sites, the main activity of both sexes such as hunting, advertising, mating and egg laying occurs in the warm midday hours. At night the animals as well as sit in the early morning sun-drenched coves in the vegetation at these sites, they also spend the night.\nThe radius of action and thus the distance between breeding, hunting and rest area is in the males of 20–100 meters and is therefore very small, the females were observed, however walking distances of up to four miles per day.\n\nSince the blue wing-demoiselle due to their very narrow ecological requirements (Stenökie) can occur, especially the larvae only in waters that are characterized by a little influenced by man and natural water bodies, it is the largest part of their range is very rare. It is absent in areas corresponding to major cities or industrial centers completely, and even in regions with strongly pronounced agricultural use it is to be found only rarely. According to this situation it is in Germany in the Red Data Book (1998) classified as endangered in some states it is even in danger of extinction. Similarly in Austria, Switzerland and other Central European countries.\n\nAmong the factors that make a settlement of the water for the larvae of the blue-wing demoiselle impossible to include on the one hand, the channeling and obstruction of the same, go where the lost for the settlement of important aquatic plants. On the other hand, the eutrophication of water by agriculture and by household wastewater causes an important factor in the decline dar. this to increased sludge formation and therefore increased oxygen consumption in the affected waters and to increased algal growth of so-called \" slime algae \". It is brown and green algae, the water plant and the substrate is overgrown. The veralgten plants are not accepted by the females as oviposition sites. In addition, the larvae no holding facilities are against the current, and the algae and dirt particles settle to the gill lamellae are important for respiration. The algae is followed by weeds and ultimately a silting of water bodies.\n\nBut natural waters with low water pollution can be in a state of the animals is not available. He may receive a water surface is not completely from the plants of the marginal vegetation to be overgrown, this is done mainly by fast-growing plants such as Meadowsweet (\"Filipendula ulmaria\"), the stinging nettle (\"Urtica dioica\") or Himalayan balsam ( Impatiens glandulifera ). The tree growth on the waters edge should not report closed canopy, otherwise lack the necessary sunlight.\nAbove all streams in uncultivated pastures, where no regular mowing is taking place, according to the animals are not habitable. This can be countered by regular removal of boundary vegetation, which will also not be complete. Even a partial thinning of trees and shrubs should be performed. In intensively used agricultural areas with a regular input of manure as fertilizer is a few meters wide can prevent extensive or unmanaged riparian strips one Einschwemmung and thus act against eutrophication.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247868", "title": "Generic you", "text": "Generic you\n\nIn English grammar and in particular in casual English, generic, impersonal, or indefinite \"you\" is the use of the pronoun \"you\" to refer to an unspecified person, as opposed to its standard use as the second-person pronoun. Generic \"you\" can often be used in the place of \"one\", the third-person singular impersonal pronoun, in colloquial speech.\n\nThe generic \"you\" is primarily a colloquial substitute for \"one\". For instance, \ncan be expressed less formally as \n\nIn German, the informal second-person singular personal pronoun ' (\"you\")—just like in English—is sometimes used in the same sense as the indefinite pronoun ' (\"one\").\n\nIn Norwegian, these are also \"du\" and \"man.\"\n\nIn Dutch, the equivalent second-person singular personal pronouns are \"jij/je\" (\"stressed\" and \"unstressed\" pronouns), and \"men\" (one) is similarly used in the place of the formal version, \"u\" (formal \"you\").\n\nIn Russian, the second-person singular pronoun \"ты\", often in the pronoun-dropped form, is used for some impersonal constructions. An example is the proverb \"за двумя зайцами погонишься, ни одного не поймаешь\" with the literal meaning \"if you chase after two hares, you will not catch even one\", or figuratively, \"a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush\".\n\nThe second-person pronoun \"sinä\" is often used in Finnish to replace passive voice, largely due to the influence of (generic) \"you\" in English, but its use is only recommended in spoken or otherwise informal language.\n\nIn Darija (Arabic as spoken in the Maghreb), there are two distinct singular second-person pronouns, one masculine (used when addressing a man) and one feminine (used when addressing a woman); but when used as generic pronouns, the speaker uses the pronoun with the gender corresponding to their \"own\" gender, rather than that of the person they are addressing.\n\nIn Japanese, the sentence structure may be adjusted to make the patient of an action, or even the action itself, the topic of a sentence, thus avoiding the use of a pronoun altogether.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247869", "title": "Chuadanga", "text": "Chuadanga\n\nChuadanga () is a city and district headquarter of Chuadanga District in the division of Khulna, Bangladesh.\n"}
{"id": "2247872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247872", "title": "Jamalpur, Bihar", "text": "Jamalpur, Bihar\n\nJamalpur is a city in the Indian state of Bihar. It is situated 8 km from Munger city center. Jamalpur is a part of Munger-Jamalpur twin cities.\nThe name Jamalpur literally means \"Jamal\" (beautiful) \"pur\" (town). Jamalpur is best known for the Jamalpur Locomotive Workshop, which employs over 25,000 people at its training institution, The Indian Railways Institute of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering. And Annual Turnover is Rs. 10.56 billion with a no. of staffs is 1,11,485 and this is Asia's Largest and Oldest locomotive Railway Workshop. City was established in 1862 during the British Raj, with the Railways Institute forming its cultural hub. The city has become fully developed with four shopping malls and complexes and Royal Enfield showroom. Students from Jamalpur are studying in Govt.and private Top institutes in Delhi,Kolkata,Bangalore,patna and some had went abroad. And this is the reason of which the literacy rate of jamalpur is so high.\n\nJamalpur is named after 16th century sufi saint Jamal Baba, whose dargha(shrine) is still present at East Colony Hospital Road, Jamalpur.\n\nThe paleolithic site of \"Kali Pahar\", atop Jamalpur Hill, was the location of an important find of quartzite Early and Middle Stone Ages implements.\n\nJamalpur boasts of one of the largest railway sheds in the country, stone quarries and, more famously, the ‘Sholay tunnel’. This is the tunnel where a crucial scene in the unforgettable film ‘Sholay’ was shot, and locals here will take great pride in proclaiming this fact to you.\n\nYou can trek up to the Shiva temple perched on a lovely verdant hill; halfway up there you will encounter a smaller shrine dedicated to Goddess Kali, which is as good a place to catch your breath and look out over the surrounding hills. Large herbivores named nilgais and native hares can be spotted on sunny days along with several vividly colored endemic plant species.\n\nWander into town to sample some of north India’s favorite snacks such as piping hot jalebis, or pick up some lovely rustic earthenware that is the specialty of Kumhartoli—a small potters’ village some distance from town.\n\nJamalpur is also proud of its British-era 18-hole golf course that is beautifully landscaped with rolling greens, natural water bodies and stately trees.\n\nJamalpur is located at at an average elevation of .\n\nThe suburb is a part of Munger city. The city centre of Munger is northwest of Jamalpur area of Munger city. There is a road as well as a rail link throughout these areas, the rail link has been completed recently Munger Ganga Bridge. Jamalpur is an overnight rail or road journey from Kolkata.\n\nThe nearest airport is Munger Airport near Safiyabad area of the Munger city. The nearest commercial domestic airport is Lok Nayak Jayaprakash Airport in Patna, away. The nearest international airport is Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International Airport in Kolkata, from Jamalpur on NH 33. \n, Jamalpur has a population of 105,221, with a ratio of 871 females for every 1,000 males. The average literacy rate is 87.38%; for men it is 92.58%, and for women it is 81.40%. There are 12,298 children in Jamalpur aged 0 to 6, with a ratio of 867 girls for every 1,000 boys.\n\nThe Jamalpur Locomotive Workshop was the first full-fledged railway workshop facility in India, founded on by the East Indian Railway Company. The Jamalpur site was chosen for its proximity both to the Sahibganj loop, which was the main trunk route at the time, and to the communities of gunsmiths and other mechanical craftsmen in Bihar.\n\nThe workshop was initially for repairing locomotives, and assembling new ones from salvaged parts. By the early 20th century, however, it had progressed to producing its own locomotives. It produced the first one, \"CA 764 \"Lady Curzon\"\", in 1899. In 1893, it became the site of the first railway foundry in India. It also had a workshop for repairing and building boilers. Today it has a foundry, metallurgical lab facilities, and machine tool facilities. Its rolling mill and nut and bolt shop ceased operation in 1984.\n\nThe school attached to the workshop eventually became the Indian Railways Institute of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering (IRIMEE).\n\nThe Ananda Marga movement was founded here by Jamalpur native Prabhat Ranjan Sarkar in 1955.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247889", "title": "Cabo Catoche", "text": "Cabo Catoche\n\nCabo Catoche or Cape Catoche, in the Mexican state of Quintana Roo, is the northernmost point on the Yucatán Peninsula. It lies in the municipality of Isla Mujeres, about north of the city of Cancún. According to the International Hydrographic Organization, it marks the division point between the Caribbean Sea to the east and Gulf of Mexico to the west.\n\nThe name is believed to be a corruption of the Mayan word \"cotoch\", meaning \"our houses, our homeland\". \"Cotoch\" is the name used by Diego de Landa to refer to the region in 1566. \n\nCatoche was the location of the first intentional landing by Europeans in the territory of modern-day Mexico, during the Córdoba expedition, on 4 March 1517. The Spanish were invited into the native town with \"\"Cones catoche, cones catoche\", which means: 'Come to our houses'.\" On the way, the Spaniards were ambushed, suffering thirteen wounded to the native's fifteen killed. The Spaniards captured two natives, baptized as Julian and Melchior, who became interpreters on future Spanish expeditions, before Melchior turned against the Spaniards at the Battle of Centla.\n\nThis is also the site of the first known \"accidental\" landing, a shipwreck in 1511, in which Gerónimo de Aguilar and Gonzalo Guerrero survived.\n\nDirectly west of Cabo Catouche is Holbox Island and Yalahau lagoon, where the Caribbean and Gulf of Mexico converge, creating a rich environment for an abundance of marine life. These waters are home to the largest gathering of whale sharks in the world for about five months out of the year. Because of the mixing of these waters and the white coraline sands, clear turquoise and emerald waters are found. This island is a protected area and the sands are an important hatchery for sea turtles and a host of bird species. The Yalahau Lagoon is a fresh water lagoon and so deep that the water appears to be black. In satellite photographic images the lagoon appears to be a black hole.\n"}
{"id": "2247891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247891", "title": "Philip St. George Cooke", "text": "Philip St. George Cooke\n\nPhilip St. George Cooke (June 13, 1809 – March 20, 1895) was a career United States Army cavalry officer who served as a Union General in the American Civil War. He is noted for his authorship of an Army cavalry manual, and is sometimes called the \"Father of the U.S. Cavalry.\" His service in the Civil War was significant, but was eclipsed in prominence by the contributions made by his famous son in law, J.E.B. Stuart, to the Confederate States Army.\n\nCooke was born in Leesburg, Virginia, June 13, 1809. He graduated from the United States Military Academy in 1827 and was commissioned a brevet second lieutenant in the infantry. He served at a variety of installations in the American West and in the Black Hawk War. In 1833 he was promoted to first lieutenant in the newly formed 1st U.S. Dragoons.\n\nCooke went on numerous trips of exploration into the Far West with the Dragoons. As Captain in command of 200 Dragoons, he disarmed and arrested Colonel Jacob Snively's Republic of Texas company of about 100 men, who were attempting to disrupt trade along the Santa Fe Trail, in what was described as the Second Texas Santa Fe Expedition.\n\nDuring the Mexican–American War he led the Mormon Battalion from Santa Fe to California, establishing what became known as Cooke's Wagon Road, later to become the southern route to California during the California Gold Rush. He received a brevet promotion to lieutenant colonel for his service in California. In command of 2nd U.S. Dragoons, he defeated the Jicarilla Apache in Ojo Caliente, New Mexico in 1854, was in the 1855 Battle of Ash Hollow against the Sioux, and was sent to keep the peace in Bleeding Kansas in 1856–1857. Acquainted with Brigham Young, Cooke took part in the Utah expedition of 1857–58, after which he was promoted to colonel and assigned command of the 2nd U.S. Dragoons. He was an observer for the U.S. Army in the Crimean War and commanded the Department of Utah from 1860 until 1861.\n\nThe issue of secession deeply divided Cooke's family. Cooke himself remained loyal to the Union, but his son, John Rogers Cooke, became an infantry brigade commander in the Army of Northern Virginia. J.E.B. Stuart, the famous Confederate cavalry commander, was Cooke's son-in-law. Cooke and Stuart never spoke again, Stuart saying, \"He will regret it only once, and that will be continually.\"\n\nAt the start of the American Civil War, the U.S. Army had five mounted regiments. Cooke commanded the 2nd Dragoons, which was redesignated the 2nd U.S. Cavalry. As they prepared to ride into their first battles, they had the potential opportunity to learn from the two-volume manual on cavalry tactics written by Cooke in 1858, but not published until 1862. It was a controversial work at the time and the War Department chose not to make it the basis for official doctrine. Cooke espoused the value of mounted attacks as the primary purpose for cavalry forces; others, more sensibly, realized that the emergence of the rifled musket as an infantry weapon made the classic cavalry charge essentially obsolete and recommended a mission emphasis on reconnaissance and screening. Even those who agreed that cavalry charges retained some value found reasons to disagree with Cooke. A prominent theory of cavalry charges at the time, endorsed by future generals Henry W. Halleck and George B. McClellan, was that the cavalry should be deployed in double ranks (a regiment would deploy in two lines of five companies each), which would increase the shock effect of the charge by providing an immediate follow-up attack. Cooke's manual called for a single-rank formation in which a battalion of four companies would form a single line and two squadrons of two companies each would cover the flanks. A third battalion would be placed in reserve a few hundred yards to the rear. Cook believed that the double-rank offensive promoted disorder of the horses in the ranks and would be difficult to control.\n\nCooke was appointed brigadier general, U.S. Army, on November 21, 1861, to rank from November 12, 1861. President Abraham Lincoln nominated Cooke for the appointment on December 21, 1861 and the U.S. Senate confirmed it on March 7, 1862. He initially commanded a brigade of regular army cavalry within the defenses of Washington, D.C. For the Peninsula Campaign, he was selected by McClellan to command the Cavalry Reserve, a division-sized force, of the Army of the Potomac. When Confederate forces evacuated the city of Yorktown, Cooke was sent along with Major General George Stoneman in pursuit and his cavalry was roughed up in an assault ordered by Stoneman against Fort Magruder. He saw subsequent action at the battles of Williamsburg, Gaines' Mill, and White Oak Swamp. Cooke ordered an ill-fated charge of the 5th U.S. Cavalry at Gaines' Mill during the Seven Days Battles, sacrificing nearly an entire regiment of regulars.\n\nAfter the Peninsula, Cooke left active field service. One proximate reason was the embarrassment he suffered when his son-in-law, J.E.B. Stuart, humiliated the Union cavalry by completely encircling the Army of the Potomac in his celebrated raid. Cooke served on boards of court-martial, commanded the District of Baton Rouge, and was superintendent of Army recruiting for the Adjutant General's office. On July 17, 1866, President Andrew Johnson nominated Cooke for appointment to the brevet grade of major general in the regular army, to rank from March 13, 1865, and the U.S. Senate confirmed the appointment on July 23, 1866.\n\nCooke commanded the Department of the Platte from 1866 to 1867, the Department of the Cumberland from 1869 to 1870, and the Department of the Lakes. He retired from the Army with almost 50 years service on October 29, 1873, as a brigadier general.\n\nCooke was a member of the Michigan Commandery of the Military Order of the Loyal Legion of the United States.\n\nCooke is the author of a variety of memoirs of his service: \"Notes of a Military Reconnaissance, from Fort Leavenworth, in Missouri, to San Diego, in California\" (1848), \"Scenes and Adventures in the Army: or, Romance of Military Life\" (1857), \"Cavalry Tactics\" (1862), \"Handy Book for United States Cavalry\" (1863), and \"The Conquest of New Mexico and California\" (1878).\n\nCooke died in Detroit, Michigan, and is buried there in Elmwood Cemetery. Camp Cooke, an Army camp in Santa Barbara County, California, was named for him. The spot is now occupied by Vandenberg Air Force Base.\n\nCamp Cooke (1866–1870), the first military post in the Montana Territory, was named in honor of Phillip St. George Cooke while he was the commander of the Department of the Platte which included the Montana Territory.\n\nCamp Cooke (1941–1953) was the name given to the military post near Lompoc California. It was deactivated from 1953 to 1957, at which time it was activated as Cooke Air Force Base (1957–1958) but was officially renamed Vandenberg Air Force Base in 1958. Camp Cooke and Cooke Air Force Base in California were named in honor of Philip St. George Cooke.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247892", "title": "Bogra", "text": "Bogra\n\nBogra, officially known as Bogura, is a major city located in the Bogra District, Rajshahi Division, Bangladesh. It is major commercial hub. The Bogra bridge connects the Rajshahi Division and Rangpur Division and also the largest City in Rajshahi.This city is also known as the capital of North Bengal (উত্তরবঙ্গ) of Bangladesh. Shatmatha is the heart of this city.\n\nBogra is named after Nasiruddin Bughra Khan, the Governor of Bengal from 1279 to 1282 and the son of Delhi Sultan Ghiyasuddin Balban.\n\nThe city is approximately and is divided into 21 wards. Bogra has a population of around 540,000 people. Since it is the oldest city in Bengal, Bogra is famous for its many ancient Buddhist stupas, Hindu temples, and ancient palaces of Buddhist kings and Muslim sultans. The cuisine of Bogra is famous for the diversity of its desserts and its famous Bogurar doi named after this city.\n\nThe city has produced notable personalities including Prime Minister Muhammad Ali Bogra of Pakistan, President Ziaur Rahman of Bangladesh, All were born or have lived in the city. The current mayor of the municipality is Advocate Mahbubur Rahman (2004 To Till) from BNP .\n\nBogra is considered the oldest city of Bengal, dating to the reign of the Great Emperor Ashoka, who ruled India from 268 to 232 BCE. When Ashoka conquered the Bengal (Bongo) region, he founded Bogra and called it Pundra Bardhan. This is supported by the discovery in October 2008 of an ancient engraved stone believed to be produced in the Gupta era near Sura Masjid at Ghoraghat Upazila in Dinajpur.\n\nDuring the Bangladesh War of Independence, the area witnessed the Battle of Bogra, a fierce conflict between the guerrilla units of the Bangladesh Forces under Sector 7 and the Pakistan Army.\n\nFirst formed in 1821, the administrative district of Bogra contains an area of .\n\nThe principal rivers in the district are formed by the different channels of the Brahmaputra. The rivers have local names such as the Konai, the Daokoba, and the Jamuna. The latter forms a portion of the eastern boundary of the district. The Brahmaputra and its channels, together with three minor streams, the Bangali, Karatoya and Atrai, drive the thriving commercial activities in the area.\n\nIn 1911 the Karatoya (which flows from north to south), divided the district into two portions, the eastern tract with rich alluvial soil, subject to fertilizing inundations, yielded heavy crops of coarse rice, oil seeds, and jute, while the soil of the higher western portion of the district allowed for growing rice.\n\nThe city enjoys a tropical climate, with two main seasons: winter and summer. Bogra experiences more rainfall during the summer. \n\nSince the 2009 adoption of new urban planning, there has been a significant development in the infrastructure of Bogra. This includes the restructuring and widening of roads, improvement of telecommunications infrastructure, and the installation of underground gas connections.\n\nAdditionally, red chili production in Bogra is a major industry, with companies such as Square, Acme, and BD Food collecting red chili from twelve centers within Bogra.\n\nOften called the \"Town of Banks\", Bogra is the location of numerous online banking facilities, credit card, debit card, and remittance companies. Banking in Bogra has significantly expanded with the presence of government banks such as the Bangladesh Bank (Central Bank), Sonali Bank, Rupali Bank, Janata Bank, Rajshahi Krishi Unnayan Bank, Bangladesh Development Bank Ltd., Uttara Bank Ltd, and Agrani Bank, as well as a number of private and specialized banks, including Pubali Bank, National Bank, IFIC bank Ltd., Citi Bank Ltd., and others.\nBogra is also home to an increasing number of IT, software, technology, and computer services companies. One of the milestones of its tech sector occurred in 2008 when the French Grameen Group and Groupe Danone entered into a joint venture with a local company to establish an organization named Grameen Danone.\n\nStatistically, Bogra's workforce is still dominated by jobs in the agriculture sector (29.95%) and agricultural manufacturing (12.53%). They are followed by general commerce (18.11%), customer service (15.62%), transportation (6.66%), wage labor (2.2%), and other industries (14.93%).\n\nBogra has several railway stations and bus terminals.\n\nBogra is home to Mahasthangarh, the earliest known urban archaeological site in Bangladesh, as well as the village of Mahasthan in Shibganj thana of Bogra District. This site contains the remains of Pundranagara (or Paundravardhanapura), an ancient city in the territory of Pundravardhana. This place is considered sacred to Buddhists, Muslims, and Hindus alike. Pilgrims and visitors tour the area all year round.\n\nThe Behular Bashor Ghor is a popular tourist attraction in the city and is close to other popular spots and monuments such as the Mahasthangar, Nawab Palace (called Neelkuthi during the British period), Kherua Mosque (Sherpur Upazila), Bara Mosque, Mazar of Shah Sultan Balkhi, Mazar of Panchpir, Gokul Medh, Palace of Parshuram, Basu Bihara, Palli Unnayan Academy, Saudia City Park, Bhimer Jangle, Museum of Nawab Bari Palace, Wonderland Shishupark (a children's park), Shanewaz Shishubagan, Woodburn Park, Dreshtinandan Park, Bijayangan (the War of Liberation museum), and the Jaina Temple.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247923", "title": "Dan Kolov", "text": "Dan Kolov\n\nDoncho Kolev Danev () (27 December 1892 – 26 March 1940), better known by the ring name Dan Kolov (), was a Bulgarian wrestler and mixed martial artist born in Sennik, Bulgaria who was the first European freestyle wrestling champion from Bulgaria.\n\nHe also won the European gold in 1936 in the championship in Paris, which was the second distinction for Bulgaria after the world title of (Greco-Roman wrestling) from 1900.\n\nDoncho Kolev Danev was born on 27 December 1892 in the village of Sennik, Sevlievo municipality. He was seven years old when his father died. This tragic event forced him to become a shepherd in order to survive. He left Bulgaria in 1905 and went to then Austro-Hungarian Empire. In 1909, he met with another Bulgarian wrestler, Nikola Petrov, who convinced him to emigrate to the United States.\n\nKolov left Bulgaria and moved to the United States at the age of 17. He worked various jobs until he found work as a railroad construction worker. He impressed people with his physical power and became famous for his ability to twist metal rails around his neck. He even fought a bear while hunting. Legend has it that he fought the beast for an hour with his bare hands until he got a chance to kill the animal with his rifle later. Apparently, witnesses saw the marks of Kolov's hands on the neck of the bear. He was subsequently hired as a wrestler with \"Victoria Circus\". At the beginning of the last century, wrestling was represented in freestyle wrestling bout in which punches and kicks were allowed. It was a dangerous sport with extremely serious and severe injuries. Catch as Catch Can (CACC) or catch wrestling could be considered the father of today's mixed martial arts (MMA).\n\nBefore being discovered and trained to be a professional wrestler by , Kolov was self-taught. Kolov was the first wrestler who captured professional world heavyweight wrestling championship's \"Diamond Belt\" twice. His most famous victories are: in New York vs. Rudy Dusek (1919), in Tokyo vs. Jiki Higen \"The Strangler\" (1921) and in Paris vs. Henri Deglane (1933). He was also three times European Heavyweight Champion (1934, 1937, 1937). In 1937, Kolov defeated then European Heavyweight Champion, American Al Pereira, only for Pereira to win the title back and for Kolov to reclaim it, before losing it in turn to Joe Savoldi.\n\nHe started his career as a wrestler by taking part in the organised wrestling matches between the workers. He later won the tournament in the circus \"Victoria\" in 1914, when the director of the circus invited people from the public to compete and check their physical power with the star Jeff Lawrence \"The Cyclope\". Kolov accepted the challenge and he succeeded in overpowering the 233 pound wrestler. He won against many famous MMA fighters from that time such as Jeff Lawrence, Stanislaus Zbyszko, Jack Shirey (also called \"The Lightning Man\"), Rudy Dusek, Jo Stecker, Ed \"Strangler\" Lewis and Jim Browning. He was invited in Japan, where he claimed victory against Djiki Hegen \"The Strangler\" – idol in Japan's wrestling, who never lost to anyone before as a professional. After this win, the public tried to kill Kolov. Similar incident also happened before the match, when through the window of his hotel room it flew a dagger that Kolov successfully avoided. In the MMA tournament in Paris, Kolov won all of his matches against all of his opponents, including the final against Henri Deglane.\nKolov had between 1,500 and 2,000 fights, and won almost all of them. His wins include:\n\nKolov has 72 registered losses in official matches.\n\nAfter 30 years in a foreign country, he came back to Bulgaria and was greeted as a national hero. Throughout his whole career, he was asked many times to change his citizenship to American. He refused it with the words: \"Dan Kolov is Bulgarian\". Kolov remained proud Bulgarian until his death and was famous for his words: \"I feel strong, because I am Bulgarian\". For him, his motherland was the most holy and sacred thing. He is remembered for helping many Bulgarian people in the country and abroad. He gave all of his money to charities. The first Bulgarian airplane for the National Bulgarian Post was donated by him.\n\nHaving returned home, he spent most of his time establishing wrestling clubs by training young people, but continued to compete professionally until the last years of his life. He also arranged many wrestling matches in Sofia and donated all the profits. He is also famous with another saying, upon his return to Bulgaria, he was asked if he wanted someone to take him home by carriage, to which he replied: \"I left home walking, I will go home walking!\".\n\nThe new communist government, after 9 September 1944, awarded him with the high accolade \"Honoured Master of Sport\".\n\nIn 1962, the Bulgarian Wrestling Federation organised an international freestyle wrestling tournament named after him to commemorate his memory.\n\nIn 1999, it was produced the movie about his life \"Dan Koloff - The King of Wrestling\".\n\nKolov died in Bulgaria on 26 March 1940 from tuberculosis. His coffin was carried by officers of the Ninth Artillery Corps from the town of Sevlievo also escorted by an honorary company of cavalry. He was buried with the specific request of facing the \"Balkan\" (\"\"Balkan\" against \"Balkan\"\"), as \"Balkan\" in Bulgarian means \"mountain\" thus the meaning is \"mountain against mountain\".\n\nEach year, in the town of Sevlievo is held in freestyle wrestling tournament in memory of Kolov.\n\nOne of the versions for his condition is that he did not get infected naturally, but that he was purposely infected by French doctors. It is known that there were a lot of attempts to get Kolov disgraced and disqualified from tournaments.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247927", "title": "Data structure alignment", "text": "Data structure alignment\n\nData structure alignment refers to the way data is arranged and accessed in computer memory. It consists of three separate but related issues: data alignment, data structure padding, and packing.\n\nThe CPU in modern computer hardware performs reads and writes to memory most efficiently when the data is \"naturally aligned\", which generally means that the data's memory address is a multiple of the data size. For instance, in a 32-bit architecture, the data may be aligned if the data is stored in four consecutive bytes and the first byte lies on a 4-byte boundary.\n\n\"Data alignment\" refers to aligning elements according to their natural alignment. To ensure natural alignment, it may be necessary to insert some \"padding\" between structure elements or after the last element of a structure. For example, on a 32-bit machine, a data structure containing a 16-bit value followed by a 32-bit value could have 16 bits of \"padding\" between the 16-bit value and the 32-bit value to align the 32-bit value on a 32-bit boundary. Alternately, one can \"pack\" the structure, omitting the padding, which may lead to slower access, but uses half as much memory.\n\nAlthough data structure alignment is a fundamental issue for all modern computers, many computer languages and computer language implementations handle data alignment automatically. Ada, PL/I, Pascal, certain C and C++ implementations, D, Rust, C#, and assembly language allow at least partial control of data structure padding, which may be useful in certain special circumstances.\n\nA memory address \"a\" is said to be \"n-byte aligned\" when \"a\" is a multiple of \"n\" bytes (where \"n\" is a power of 2). In this context, a byte is the smallest unit of memory access, i.e. each memory address specifies a different byte. An \"n\"-byte aligned address would have a minimum of \"log(n)\" least-significant zeros when expressed in binary.\n\nThe alternate wording \"b-bit aligned\" designates a \"b/8 byte aligned\" address (ex. 64-bit aligned is 8 bytes aligned).\n\nA memory access is said to be \"aligned\" when the data being accessed is \"n\" bytes long and the datum address is \"n\"-byte aligned. When a memory access is not aligned, it is said to be \"misaligned\". Note that by definition byte memory accesses are always aligned.\n\nA memory pointer that refers to primitive data that is \"n\" bytes long is said to be \"aligned\" if it is only allowed to contain addresses that are \"n\"-byte aligned, otherwise it is said to be \"unaligned\". A memory pointer that refers to a data aggregate (a data structure or array) is \"aligned\" if (and only if) each primitive datum in the aggregate is aligned.\n\nNote that the definitions above assume that each primitive datum is a power of two bytes long. When this is not the case (as with 80-bit floating-point on x86) the context influences the conditions where the datum is considered aligned or not.\n\nData structures can be stored in memory on the stack with a static size known as \"bounded\" or on the heap with a dynamic size known as \"unbounded\".\n\nThe CPU accesses memory by a single memory word at a time. As long as the memory word size is at least as large as the largest primitive data type supported by the computer, aligned accesses will always access a single memory word. This may not be true for misaligned data accesses.\n\nIf the highest and lowest bytes in a datum are not within the same memory word the computer must split the datum access into multiple memory accesses. This requires a lot of complex circuitry to generate the memory accesses and coordinate them. To handle the case where the memory words are in different memory pages the processor must either verify that both pages are present before executing the instruction or be able to handle a TLB miss or a page fault on any memory access during the instruction execution.\n\nSome processor designs deliberately avoid introducing such complexity, and instead yield alternative behavior in the event of a misaligned memory access. For example, implementations of the ARM architecture prior to the ARMv6 ISA require mandatory aligned memory access for all multi-byte load and store instructions. Depending on which specific instruction was issued, the result of attempted misaligned access might be to round down the least significant bits of the offending address turning it into an aligned access (sometimes with additional caveats), or to throw an MMU exception (if MMU hardware is present), or to silently yield other potentially unpredictable results. Starting with the ARMv6 architecture, support was added to handle unaligned access in many, but not necessarily all circumstances.\n\nWhen a single memory word is accessed the operation is atomic, i.e. the whole memory word is read or written at once and other devices must wait until the read or write operation completes before they can access it. This may not be true for unaligned accesses to multiple memory words, e.g. the first word might be read by one device, both words written by another device and then the second word read by the first device so that the value read is neither the original value nor the updated value. Although such failures are rare, they can be very difficult to identify.\n\nAlthough the compiler (or interpreter) normally allocates individual data items on aligned boundaries, data structures often have members with different alignment requirements. To maintain proper alignment the translator normally inserts additional unnamed data members so that each member is properly aligned. In addition, the data structure as a whole may be padded with a final unnamed member. This allows each member of an array of structures to be properly aligned.\n\nPadding is only inserted when a structure member is followed by a member with a larger alignment requirement or at the end of the structure. By changing the ordering of members in a structure, it is possible to change the amount of padding required to maintain alignment. For example, if members are sorted by descending alignment requirements a minimal amount of padding is required. The minimal amount of padding required is always less than the largest alignment in the structure. Computing the maximum amount of padding required is more complicated, but is always less than the sum of the alignment requirements for all members minus twice the sum of the alignment requirements for the least aligned half of the structure members.\n\nAlthough C and C++ do not allow the compiler to reorder structure members to save space, other languages might. It is also possible to tell most C and C++ compilers to \"pack\" the members of a structure to a certain level of alignment, e.g. \"pack(2)\" means align data members larger than a byte to a two-byte boundary so that any padding members are at most one byte long.\n\nOne use for such \"packed\" structures is to conserve memory. For example, a structure containing a single byte and a four-byte integer would require three additional bytes of padding. A large array of such structures would use 37.5% less memory if they are packed, although accessing each structure might take longer. This compromise may be considered a form of space–time tradeoff.\n\nAlthough use of \"packed\" structures is most frequently used to conserve memory space, it may also be used to format a data structure for transmission using a standard protocol. However, in this usage, care must also be taken to ensure that the values of the struct members are stored with the endianness required by the protocol (often network byte order), which may be different from the endianness used natively by the host machine.\n\nThe following formulas provide the number of padding bytes required to align the start of a data structure (where \"mod\" is the modulo operator):\n\nFor example, the padding to add to offset 0x59d for a 4-byte aligned structure is 3. The structure will then start at 0x5a0, which is a multiple of 4. However, when the alignment of \"offset\" is already equal to that of \"align\", the second modulo in \"(align - (offset mod align)) mod align\" will return zero, therefore the original value is left unchanged.\n\nSince the alignment is by definition a power of two, the modulo operation can be reduced to a bitwise boolean AND operation.\n\nThe following formulas produce the aligned offset (where \"&\" is a bitwise AND and \"~\" a bitwise NOT):\n\nData structure members are stored sequentially in memory so that, in the structure below, the member Data1 will always precede Data2; and Data2 will always precede Data3:\nstruct MyData\n\nIf the type \"short\" is stored in two bytes of memory then each member of the data structure depicted above would be 2-byte aligned. Data1 would be at offset 0, Data2 at offset 2, and Data3 at offset 4. The size of this structure would be 6 bytes.\n\nThe type of each member of the structure usually has a default alignment, meaning that it will, unless otherwise requested by the programmer, be aligned on a pre-determined boundary. The following typical alignments are valid for compilers from Microsoft (Visual C++), Borland/CodeGear (C++Builder), Digital Mars (DMC), and GNU (GCC) when compiling for 32-bit x86:\n\n\nThe only notable differences in alignment for an LP64 64-bit system when compared to a 32-bit system are:\n\n\nSome data types are dependent on the implementation.\n\nHere is a structure with members of various types, totaling 8 bytes before compilation:\nstruct MixedData\n\nAfter compilation the data structure will be supplemented with padding bytes to ensure a proper alignment for each of its members:\nstruct MixedData /* After compilation in 32-bit x86 machine */\nassuming that the address where structure begins is an even number */\n\nThe compiled size of the structure is now 12 bytes. It is important to note that the last member is padded with the number of bytes required so that the total size of the structure should be a multiple of the largest alignment of any structure member (alignment(int) in this case, which = 4 on linux-32bit/gcc).\n\nIn this case 3 bytes are added to the last member to pad the structure to the size of a 12 bytes (alignment(int) × 3).\nstruct FinalPad {\n\nIn this example the total size of the structure , not 5 (so that the size is a multiple of 4 (alignment of float)).\nstruct FinalPadShort {\n\nIn this example the total size of the structure , not 5 (not 8 either) (so that the size is a multiple of 2 (alignment(short) = 2 on linux-32bit/gcc)).\n\nIt is possible to change the alignment of structures to reduce the memory they require (or to conform to an existing format) by reordering structure members or changing the compiler's alignment (or “packing”) of structure members.\nstruct MixedData /* after reordering */\n\nThe compiled size of the structure now matches the pre-compiled size of 8 bytes. Note that has been replaced (and thus eliminated) by and is no longer necessary as the structure is already aligned to the size of a long word.\n\nThe alternative method of enforcing the structure to be aligned to a one byte boundary will cause the pre-processor to discard the pre-determined alignment of the structure members and thus no padding bytes would be inserted.\n\nWhile there is no standard way of defining the alignment of structure members, some compilers use directives to specify packing inside source files. Here is an example:\n\nstruct MyPackedData\n\nThis structure would have a compiled size of 6 bytes on a 32-bit system. The above directives are available in compilers from Microsoft, Borland, GNU, and many others.\n\nAnother example:\nstruct MyPackedData\n\nOn some Microsoft compilers, particularly for RISC processors, there is an unexpected relationship between project default packing (the /Zp directive) and the directive. The directive can only be used to reduce the packing size of a structure from the project default packing. This leads to interoperability problems with library headers which use, for example, , if the project packing is smaller than this. For this reason, setting the project packing to any value other than the default of 8 bytes would break the directives used in library headers and result in binary incompatibilities between structures. This limitation is not present when compiling for x86.\n\nIt would be beneficial to allocate memory aligned to cache lines. If an array is partitioned for more than one thread to operate on, having the sub-array boundaries unaligned to cache lines could lead to performance degradation. Here is an example to allocate memory (double array of size 10) aligned to cache of 64 bytes.\n\ndouble *foo(void) {\n\nAlignment concerns can affect areas much larger than a C structure when the purpose is the efficient mapping of that area through a hardware address translation mechanism (PCI remapping, operation of a MMU).\n\nFor instance, on a 32-bit operating system, a 4 KiB (4096 Bytes) page is not just an arbitrary 4 KiB chunk of data. Instead, it is usually a region of memory that's aligned on a 4 KiB boundary. This is because aligning a page on a page-sized boundary lets the hardware map a virtual address to a physical address by substituting the higher bits in the address, rather than doing complex arithmetic.\n\nExample: Assume that we have a TLB mapping of virtual address 0x2CFC7000 to physical address 0x12345000. (Note that both these addresses are aligned at 4 KiB boundaries.) Accessing data located at virtual address va=0x2CFC7ABC causes a TLB resolution of 0x2CFC7 to 0x12345 to issue a physical access to pa=0x12345ABC. Here, the 20/12-bit split luckily matches the hexadecimal representation split at 5/3 digits. The hardware can implement this translation by simply combining the first 20 bits of the physical address (0x12345) and the last 12 bits of the virtual address (0xABC). This is also referred to as virtually indexed (ABC) physically tagged (12345).\n\nA block of data of size 2 - 1 always has one sub-block of size 2 aligned on 2 bytes.\n\nThis is how a dynamic allocator that has no knowledge of alignment, can be used to provide aligned buffers, at the price of a factor two in space loss.\n// Example: get 4096 bytes aligned on a 4096 byte buffer with malloc()\n\n// unaligned pointer to large area\nvoid *up = malloc((1 « 13) - 1);\n// well-aligned pointer to 4 KiB\nvoid *ap = aligntonext(up, 12);\nwhere aligntonext(\"p\", \"r\") works by adding an aligned increment, then clearing the \"r\" least significant bits of \"p\". A possible implementation is\n// Assume `uint32_t p, bits;` for readability\n\n"}
{"id": "2247930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247930", "title": "List of islands of Puerto Rico", "text": "List of islands of Puerto Rico\n\nThis is a list of islands of Puerto Rico.\nThe Commonwealth of Puerto Rico has over 143 islands, cays, islets, and atolls. Only the main island of Puerto Rico () and the islands of Vieques (), and Culebra () are inhabited. Mona Island () has personnel from the Puerto Rico Department of Natural and Environmental Resources (DNER) stationed year-around but no private citizens inhabit it (other than overnight camping guests and nature enthusiasts). Caja de Muertos Island () is also a DNER Nature Reserve, while Desecheo Island () is a National Wildlife Refuge administrated by the US Fish and Wildlife Service.\n\nThe other 140 islands, cays, islets and atolls are not inhabited. Three of the islands are in private hands: Palomino Island, which is rented on a long-term lease to El Conquistador Hotel, and Isla de Ramos and Isla de Lobos.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247942", "title": "Harvest of Love", "text": "Harvest of Love\n\n\"The Harvest Of Love\" is a short comedy song, co-written and originally performed by Benny Hill, released on Pye Records (7N.15520). The other writer was shown as \"M. Anthony\", a pseudonym for the producer, Tony Hatch. The song was a #20 hit in the UK Singles Chart in 1963, and has appeared on several compilation albums as well as being covered by the Wurzels. The Benny Hill version was flipped with another Hill composition, \"BAMba 3688\". The record also saw a U.S. release on Rust (5079).\n\nThe song is sung from the point of view of a farmhand who has fallen in love (or at least, lust) with a young lady. Hill's vocals were accompanied by the Kestrels, who instead of singing, provided a vocal back-up of farmyard impressions. The accompaniment was directed by Hatch. The Kestrels at that time were Roger Greenaway, Tony Burrows, Jeff Williams, and Roger Gullane.\n\nThe lyrics included such lines as:\n\"And as the horse and I plough the field nearby,Your memory I can't erase,For while I walk at the rear of the horse, my dear,I seem to see your face.\"\nAt the end of the song it turns out that the narrator is already married.\nIn September 2013, the original pressing of the single was found in private storage and sold for £10 at auction on the ITV daytime series \"Storage Hoarders\".\n"}
{"id": "2247943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247943", "title": "Home theater in a box", "text": "Home theater in a box\n\nA home theater in a box (HTIB) is an integrated home theater package which \"bundles\" together a combination DVD or Blu-ray player, a multi-channel amplifier (which includes a surround sound decoder, a radio tuner, and other features), speaker wires, connection cables, a remote control, a set of five or more surround sound speakers (or more rarely, just left and right speakers, a lower-price option known as \"2.1\") and a low-frequency subwoofer cabinet.\nIn 2016,\nthey are manufactured by most makers of consumer electronics. Budget HTIB's with generic or lower-price \"house\" brands (e.g., Best Buy's \"Insignia\" line) may be a \"2.1\" system. Many, however, are a full \"5.1\" system and some higher-end packages even have a 7.1 system. Some popular manufacturers of HTIB's are RCA, Philips, Panasonic, Sony, Yamaha, LG and Samsung, all of which make a variety of mid-price range packages. Bose and Onkyo make higher-end, higher-priced HTIB packages.\n\nHTIBs are marketed as an \"all-in-one\" way for consumers to enjoy the surround sound experience of home cinema, even if they do not want to-or do not have the electronics \"know-how\" to pick out all of the components one-by-one and connect the cables. If a consumer were to buy all of the items individually, they would have to have a basic knowledge of electronics, so they could, for example, ensure that the speakers were of compatible impedance and power-handling for the amplifier. As well, the consumer would have to ensure that they purchased all of the different connection cables, which could include HDMI cables, optical connectors, speaker wire, and RCA connectors.\n\nOn the downside, most HTIBs lack the features and \"tweakability\" of home theater components which are sold separately. For example, while a standalone home theater amplifier may offer extensive equalization options, a HTIB amplifier may simply provide a few factory-set EQ presets. As well, while a standalone home theatre subwoofer may contain a range of sound-shaping circuitry, such as a crossover control, a phase inversion switch, and a parametric equalizer, a HTIB subwoofer system usually has its crossover point set at the factory, which means that the user cannot change it. In some cases, the factory preset crossover point on an HTIB subwoofer may cause it to sound too \"boomy\" in a room.\n\nA typical HTIB generally consists of a central receiver unit which usually contains a DVD player (some systems separate the DVD player into a separate unit), a multi-channel power amplifier and a series of speakers for surround sound use, generally including a subwoofer. Some HTIB systems also have a radio tuner or an Internet-based streaming audio platform (e.g. Spotify). The least expensive systems usually have a passive subwoofer, which is amplified by the receiver unit. HTIB systems do not include a television set or monitor with which to display the visual material or a stand to place the receiver unit on. Beside auxiliary inputs, many of them are equipped today with HDMI with ARC, optical and SPDIF inputs. Some HTIB systems are also equipped with a phono input, to allow the connection of a turntable with magnetic cartridge. However such systems are not suitable for vinyl playing as they are mainly focussed on movies and rarely for high fidelity. Some home theaters are just stereo or 2.1, but even so, they are not intended as hi fi, this is just a marketing strategy.\n\nThere are systems in this class that are sold without a DVD player and are designed to integrate with existing video setups where there is already one, such as a DVD recorder or a DVD/VCR combo unit. The speaker cabinets supplied with most systems in this class are generally fairly small compared to typical stereo speakers, and are meant for wall- or shelf-mounting in tight spaces. There are some systems in this class that are supplied with slim freestanding speakers that stand on the floor. This may be typical of higher-priced systems that are equipped with more powerful amplifiers or most of the \"receiver-only\" packages that do not come with a DVD player.\n\nSome HTIBs use proprietary connectors between components, sometimes even combining several different wires into one connector, to reduce cable clutter and increase the ease of installation. However, this can impede interoperability between different audio/visual devices and makes upgrading certain parts impossible. This may also be used by manufacturers to limit what a consumer can do with a low-end model and encourage them to upgrade should they want more autonomy.\n\nA few manufacturers, notably Sony and Panasonic, have implemented wireless connection technology for the surround speakers in this class of equipment. This technology may be available as standard with some of the high-priced models or may be supplied as an aftermarket kit that only works with selected models in the manufacturer's range. It usually uses a line-level feed over a proprietary wireless link to a separate power amplifier used for the surround-sound channels. This link-receiver and power amplifier can be built into one of the surround speakers or housed in a black box that the surround speakers are connected to. Some higher-end HTIB models offer additional features such as 1080i or 4K ( mainly versions with Blu-ray) video resolution upscaling, a 5-disc platter, HDMI inputs, USB connectivity, Bluetooth support, Wi-fi support, Internet apps, DAB and DAB+, mirroring possibility, iPod dock and a hard disk for recording TV shows.\n\nSome older HTIBs from the 1990s had a built-in VCR, besides a DVD, along with a TV tuner, and a hard disk for recording TV shows.\n"}
{"id": "2247945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247945", "title": "Shakespeare Festival of Dallas", "text": "Shakespeare Festival of Dallas\n\nShakespeare Dallas (formerly known as Shakespeare Festival of Dallas) is Shakespeare festival in Dallas. The festival was started by Robert Glenn in 1971 as a free summer Shakespeare festival. Since 2002 the organization has been led by Artistic and Executive Director Raphael Parry. It is the second oldest company in the county that still provides a portion of its programming free of charge. Summer programs are presented in Dallas, Texas, and Addison, Texas. The education program is offered throughout the entire North Texas region. The majority of performances are at the Samuel-Grand Amphitheatre in Lakewood.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247957", "title": "Annona glabra", "text": "Annona glabra\n\nAnnona glabra is a tropical fruit tree in the family Annonaceae, in the same genus as the soursop and cherimoya. Common names include pond apple, alligator apple (so called because American alligators often eat the fruit), swamp apple, corkwood, bobwood, and monkey apple. The tree is native to Florida in the United States, the Caribbean, Central and South America, and West Africa. It is common in the Everglades. The \"A. glabra\" tree is considered an invasive species in Sri Lanka and Australia. It grows in swamps, is tolerant of saltwater, and cannot grow in dry soil.\n\nThe trees grow to up to 12 m. They have narrow, gray trunks and sometimes grow in clumps. The leaves are ovate to oblong, each with an acute tip, 8–15 cm long and 4–6 cm broad with a prominent midrib. The upper surface is light to dark green. Leaves of the \"A. glabra\" are said to have a distinct smell, similar to green apples, that can distinguish it from mangroves. The fruit is oblong through spherical and apple-sized or larger, 7–15 cm long and up to 9 cm diameter, and falls when it is green or ripening yellowish. It disperses by floating to new locations, and it is food for many animal species such as wild boar. Reproduction begins around two years of age. A fruit contains 100 or more convex, light yellow-brown seeds, about 1 cm long. \"A. glabra\" flowers have a short life-span, and have a diameter of 2-3cm. The flowers have three outer petals as well as three inner petals. Compared to the pale yellow or cream color of the petals, the inner base of the \"A. glabra\" flower is a bright red. Its pollen is shed as permanent tetrads.\n\n\"A. glabra\" thrives in wet environments. The seeds and fruit of this plant can be dispersed during wet seasons where they fall into swamps and rivers. This allows the seeds and fruits to spread to coastlines. A 2008 study found that \"A. glabra\" seeds can withstand floating in salt water and fresh water for up to 12 months. About 38% of those seeds can then germinate in soil, though \"A. glabra\" roots do not do well with constant flooding. Another study in 1998 found that even under intense flooding, the 12-month lifespan of \"A. glabra\" seedlings was unaffected; the growth rate of \"A. glabra\" trees did decrease however over a 6-month period. Compared to other Annona seeds and trees, the \"A. glabra\" is still more resilient to instances of flooding. \n\nUnlike the other Annona species, the pulp of the fruit when ripe is yellow through orange instead of whitish.\nThe fruit is edible for humans and its taste is reminiscent of ripe Honeydew melon.\nIt can be made into jam, and it is a popular ingredient of fresh fruit drinks in Maldives. In the older days the seeds were crushed and cooked in coconut oil and applied to hair to get rid of lice \n\nThe flesh is sweet-scented and agreeable in flavor, but it has never attained general popular use unlike soursop and other related fruits. Experiments in South Florida have been conducted to use it as a superior rootstock for sugar-apple or soursop. While the grafts initially appear to be effective, a high percentage of them typically fail over time. Soursop on pond-apple rootstock has a dwarfing effect.\n\nRecent research suggests that its alcoholic seed extract contains anticancer compounds that could be used pharmaceutically.\n\nIt is a very troublesome invasive species in northern Queensland in Australia and Sri Lanka, where it grows in estuaries and chokes mangrove swamps. The \"A. glabra\" tree was introduced to North Queensland sometime around 1912 as both a rootstock for similar Annona species such as \"Annona atemoya\", the custard apple. \"A. glabra\" seedlings carpet the banks and prevent other species from germinating or thriving. It also affects farms as it grows along fencelines and farm drains. It also invades and transforms undisturbed areas. This can be observed in the case of Australia’s Eubenangee Swamp National Park where an outbreak occurred due to poor wetland management. \n\nIn Australia, \"A. glabra\" seeds can be spread by the southern cassowary. Seeds of the fruit have been found in cassowary dung with dispersal distances of up to 5212 m recorded in one 2008 study in the journal Diversity and Distributions. The southern cassowary itself however is an endangered species in Australia. According to the Australian government’s Department of the Environment and Energy, there is only around 20-25% of cassowary habitat remaining. Additionally, part of the government’s recovery plan includes actions towards establishing nurseries filled with plants that the cassowary consumes. Because the \"A. glabra\" is among the foods eaten by southern cassowary, revegetation may be necessary to ensure that cassowary have alternative food sources available. When the \"A. glabra\" population is controlled, natural vegetation can regenerate without human intervention. \n\nBecause of its impact on the environment as an invasive weed, the Australian government classifies the \"A. glabra\" as a Weed of National Significance (WONS). Additionally, the \"A. glabra\" was considered the highest ranked species in 2003 in a Wet Tropics bioregion weed risk assessment. In Sri Lanka it was introduced as a grafting stock for custard apples and spread into wetlands around Colombo.\n\nThe Australian government views the \"A. glabra\" as a weed, and as such offers through its Department of the Environment and Energy a control plan created in 2001 for citizens that aims at eliminating the \"A. glabra\" by 20 years. The plan includes six steps that property owners can take to determine how to control and monitor an outbreak of \"A. glabra\" as well as how to minimize financial damage. To disincentivize the cultivation and spread of \"A. glabra\" by humans, its sale and entry is banned throughout most of Australia. \n\nOptions for the control of the \"A. glabra\" include fire, chemical, and mechanical controls including combinations of the three types. The best time of year to do so according to the government of Australia is during the time between August to November, which is the dry season. There are currently no studies that have looked at the biological control of \"A. glabra\" within Australia. Without studies, any actions taken to eliminate the \"A. glabra\" with biological controls could inadvertently affect native Australian apple species that belong to the same family.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247964", "title": "Stephen A. Hurlbut", "text": "Stephen A. Hurlbut\n\nStephen Augustus Hurlbut (November 29, 1815 – March 27, 1882), was a politician, diplomat, and commander of the U.S. Army of the Gulf in the American Civil War. Hurlbut was present at the Battle of Shiloh and served under General Sherman during the Meridian Expedition. After the war he entered politics and served in various capacities, including Minister to Columbia and as a Congressman from Illinois.\n\nBorn in Charleston, South Carolina to Martin Luther Hurlbut and Lydia Bunce. His father was a Unitarian minister and educator. Hurlbut studied law with James L. Petigru as his mentor, worked for him as a law clerk, and was admitted to the South Carolina Bar in 1837. During the Second Seminole War, he served as adjutant of a South Carolina infantry regiment. In 1845, Hurlbut relocated to Illinois, where he established a law practice in Belvidere. He started his own family in 1847 after marrying Sophronia R. Stevens; she gave birth to two of his children.\n\nIn 1847, Hurlbut took part in the Illinois constitutional convention as a Whig delegate. He served as a presidential elector for the Whig Party in the 1848 Presidential Election, and became acquainted with Abraham Lincoln during campaigning for \"Old Rough and Ready\" Zachary Taylor. He was elected to the Illinois House of Representatives in 1859, and re-elected in 1861.\n\nHurlbut campaigned for Lincoln during the presidential election in 1860, and attended Lincoln's first inauguration on March 4, 1861. He and Colonel Ward H. Lamon performed a fact-finding mission on Lincoln's request, and visited Charleston on March 24–26, 1861, to investigate and report, \"the actual state of feeling in this City & State.\" Lamon received a separate assignment from William H. Seward to visit Fort Sumter. On March 27, 1861, Hurlbut wrote a detailed report where he stated,\n\nWhen the Civil War erupted, Hurlbut joined the Union Army and became a Brigadier General, U.S. Volunteers, on May 17, 1861, and a Major General on September 17, 1862.\n\nHe commanded the 4th Division, Army of the Tennessee at the Battle of Shiloh and in the advance towards Corinth and the subsequent siege. He also led a division at the Battle of Hatchie's Bridge, taking command of the entire Union force after Gen Edward Ord was wounded.\n\nHurlbut commanded XVI Corps from his headquarters at Memphis, Tennessee. It has been suggested by the historian Bertram Korn, that during his garrison duty at Memphis, Tennessee, Hurlbut issued antisemitic orders confiscating Jewish property and preventing Jews from trading.\n\nHurlbut led a corps under William T. Sherman in the 1864 Meridian expedition. He subsequently commanded the Department of the Gulf, succeeding Nathaniel P. Banks and serving in that capacity for the remainder of the war. Hurlbut was suspected of peculation during his term. General Edward R. S. Canby ordered to start court-martial proceeding and arrest Hurlbut. However, he was allowed to resign in June 1865.\n\nAfter mustering out of the Union Army on June 20, 1865, Hurlbut became one of the founding fathers of the Grand Army of the Republic, of which he served as commander-in-chief from 1866 to 1868.\n\nHe was appointed Minister Resident to Colombia in 1869, where he served three years. In 1872, Hurlbut was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives as a Republican Congressman from Illinois. While re-elected for a second term in 1874, he was defeated in 1876. Hurlbut was made ambassador to Peru in 1881, and in that capacity had a row with General Hugh Judson Kilpatrick, U.S. minister to Chile during the War of the Pacific, as each had become a partisan of the country to which he was assigned as the U.S. diplomatic representatives. Hurlbut served as U.S. ambassador to Peru until his death in Lima in 1882.\n\nHurlbut and his spouse are buried together in Belvidere Cemetery, Belvidere, Illinois.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247970", "title": "Valluvar Kottam", "text": "Valluvar Kottam\n\nValluvar Kottam () is a monument in Chennai, dedicated to the classical Tamil poet philosopher Valluvar.\n\nValluvar Kottam is located at the intersection of the Kodambakkam High road and the Village road in Nungambakkam neighbourhood of Chennai. The monument now stands at what was once the deepest point of a local lake called the Nungambakkam lake.\n\nThe construction of the Valluvar Kottam was conceived and executed by the then Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu M. Karunanidhi during the 1970s. It was inaugurated in April 1976 by then President of India Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed.\n\nThe monument consists of a decorative arch, an auditorium that can accommodate around 3,500 people, and the Kural Manimandapam, where all the 1,330 couplets from all 133 chapters of the Kural literature are inscribed on bas-relief. The hallmark of the monument is the 39-meter-high (128 feet) stone car, a replica of the famed temple chariot of Thiruvarur. The chariot is made of around 3000 blocks of stone. The four giant-sized wheels of the chariot measure 11 feet in diameter and 2 feet in thickness. A life-size statue of Valluvar has been installed in the chariot. The chariot is adorned with the famed Kalamkari drawings.\n\nThe architect of the memorial is South Indian traditional architect V. Ganapati Sthapati, who is also the architect of the Thiruvalluvar Statue at Kanyakumari.\n\nThe monument is visited by an average of about 700 people during weekdays and 1000 people during weekends.\n\nThe monument is maintained by the memorial section of the information and public relations department of the state government. It was renovated in 2007 at a cost of 6 million. In 2018, the department started renovating the memorial at a cost of 8.5 million.\n\n<br>\n\n"}
{"id": "2247978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247978", "title": "Roz Forrester", "text": "Roz Forrester\n\nRoslyn Sarah Inyathi Forrester, usually just known as Roz Forrester, is a fictional character from the Virgin New Adventures range of spin-offs based on the BBC science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\".\n\nHer first appearance was in the novel \"Original Sin\" by Andy Lane, with her adjudicator partner Chris Cwej. Adjudicators are the police force of 30th century Earth (which was at that time divided into the Overcity and the Undercity) and its extended empire (in the serial \"Colony in Space\" The Master posed as an Adjudicator). Roz was born in 2935 to a rich family on Jupiter's moon Io and was of pure African Xhosa stock (according to family legend the Forresters are descended from Nelson Mandela, but this is not the case). As a child she lived through a period known as the Wars of Acquisition before joining the Adjudicators to fight for justice.\n\nShe and Chris were investigating a murder case in Undercity in the year 2975 when they encountered the Seventh Doctor and Benny. It was revealed that Roz had killed her former Adjudicator partner, Fenn Martle, when she discovered he had been taking bribes. Her memory of this event had been manipulated by Tobias Vaughn, so that she believed Martle had been killed by an alien. This led to her having strong xenophobic feelings, which the Doctor managed to temper but not completely remove.\n\nWhen first travelling in the TARDIS, Roz continued to wear her adjudicator armour, in contrast to the no guns approach of the Doctor and Benny. She eventually takes the body armour off for Benny's wedding in \"Happy Endings\", never managing to put it back on and loses her gun in a river in Budapest. Whilst working undercover in France during World War I, in \"Toy Soldiers\", Roz was shocked to encounter racist attitudes directed at herself.\n\nWhilst visiting the Dyson sphere, known as The World, despite initially mistrusting the utopian atmosphere, Roz entered another relationship with one of the People, called feLixi. She also became something a cult figure among the inhabitants of The World (known as The People), after she threw up over an alien life that resembled a cockroach whilst they were sharing a meal at a party. However, she eventually realised feLixi was responsible for the murder of an artificial intelligence drone (and was also feeding her a mood enhancing drink called Flashback, to make her feel more vulnerable) and reported him for the crime, for which the punishment in The World's society is social exclusion. Roz felt feLixi had used her, despite his protests that he genuinely loved her. He later sent her a note at Bernice Summerfield's wedding, but Roz did not read it. During time spent in 1940s Britain during the events of \"Just War\", Roz fell in love with Lieutenant George Reed. He proposed to her; however, she decided not to stay in the 1940s with him. She kept the engagement ring and the wedding dress.\n\nRoz distrusts and quite possibly fears telepaths and is very protective of her privacy. In \"Christmas on a Rational Planet\", Roz became stranded in New York State in December 1799 and had to pose as a fortune teller. One of her customers was a gentleman called Samuel Lincoln, whom she mistakenly believed to be Abraham Lincoln's father. Realising such an action would change history and therefore alert the Doctor to her whereabouts, Roz decided to assassinate him. The Doctor arrived in time to stop her. In this story, a genetic copy of Roz was also created from her ID implant, which the real Roz eventually killed.\n\nRoz and Chris meet the Fifth Doctor and his companions in the novel \"Cold Fusion\".\nRoz and Chris travelled with the Doctor for many adventures and while their relationship was strictly platonic, she did kiss him in \"The Death of Art\". Trying to locate an N-form, the TARDIS eventually brought them back to their own time zone, where Roz eventually joined her sister Leabie's revolution against the Earth Empire, but because he was facing a greater threat from outside time, the Doctor knew he wouldn't be able to help her. Refusing to stand on the sidelines while others died, she was killed leading an assault on the stronghold of Duke Walid, the Earth Emperor who was being controlled by the Psionic Brotherhood. Roz was buried in the Umtata Reclamation Zone in Africa, wrapped in a prepared animal skin called a kaross. Roz's death shocked the Doctor so much he had a heart attack in one of his hearts.\n\nA twenty-year-old Roz, who has been pulled out of her time stream, appears in the Bernice Summerfield novel \"Oblivion\", where she helps Chris, Benny and Jason Kane defeat the mysterious artefact, known as the Egg. At the end of the novel she is returned to her correct timeline, with no memory of events. \"\", a short story collection from Virgin Publishing, chronicled the history of the Forrester family over a time span of 1000 years.\n\nRoz is voiced by Yasmin Bannerman in audio adaptations of \"Original Sin\", \"Damaged Goods\" and \"Cold Fusion\", as well as in the (forthcoming) \"The Seventh Doctor: The New Adventures\" series of original stories, all alongside Sylvester McCoy reprising his role as the Seventh Doctor.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247984", "title": "Nan Woods", "text": "Nan Woods\n\nSusan Nan Woods (born June 21, 1966 in Chicago, Illinois, U.S.) is a retired American actress who began her brief career in the mid-1980s. Her best-known role came as Cherry White in the ABC television series \"China Beach\".\n\nAfter working for just four years and appearing in the first two seasons of \"China Beach\", Woods decided acting was not for her and retired at the age of 22.\n\n"}
{"id": "2247987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247987", "title": "Donald Goines", "text": "Donald Goines\n\nDonald Goines (pseudonym: Al C. Clark; December 15, 1936 – October 21, 1974) was an African-American writer of urban fiction. His novels were deeply influenced by the work of Iceberg Slim.\n\nGoines was born in Detroit, Michigan on December 15, 1936. His parents were a middle-class black couple that ran a laundry business, with his mother Myrtle Goines telling Goines that her family was descended from Jefferson Davis and a woman who was enslaved. Donald was the middle child of three, and the only son.\n\nAt age 15, Goines lied about his age to join the Air Force and fought in the Korean War.\n\nDuring his stint in the armed forces, Goines developed an addiction to heroin that continued after his honorable discharge in the mid-1950s. In order to support his addiction, Goines committed crimes including pimping, larceny, robbery, illegal liquor manufacturing and theft. He resided in several cities, including Kansas City, Missouri and Junction City, Kansas, but mostly in his native Detroit. He was sentenced to prison several times, both state and federal.\n\nHe began writing while serving a sentence in Michigan's Jackson Penitentiary. Goines initially attempted to write Westerns, but he decided to write urban fiction after reading Robert \"Iceberg Slim\" Beck's autobiography \"Pimp: The Story of My Life\".\n\nGoines continued to write novels at an accelerated pace in order to support his drug addictions, with some books taking only a month to complete. His sister Joan Goines Coney later said that Goines wrote at such an accelerated pace in order to avoid committing more crimes and based many of the characters in his books on people he knew in real life. He completed 16 books.\n\nIn 1974 Goines published \"Crime Partners\", the first book in the \"Kenyatta\" series under the name Al C. Clark. Holloway House's chief executive Bentley Morriss requested that Goines publish the book under a pseudonym in order to avoid having the sales of Goines's work suffer due to too many books releasing at once. The book dealt with an anti-hero character named after Jomo Kenyatta that ran an organization similar to the Black Panthers to clear the ghetto of crime. In his book \"The Low Road\", Eddie B. Allen remarks that the series was a departure from some of Goines's other works, with the character of Kenyatta symbolizing a sense of liberation for Goines.\n\n\"Inner City Hoodlum\", which Goines had finished before his death, was published posthumously in 1975. Set in Los Angeles, the novel was about heroin, money and murder.\n\nOn October 21, 1974 Goines and his common-law wife Shirley Sailor were discovered dead in their Highland Park, Michigan apartment. The police had received an anonymous phone call earlier that evening and responded, discovering Goines in the living room of the apartment and Sailor's body in the kitchen. Both Goines and Sailor had sustained multiple gunshot wounds to the chest and head. The identity of the two gunmen is unknown, as is the reason behind the murders. Popular theories involve Goines being murdered due to his basing several of his characters on real life criminals as well as the theory that Goines was killed due to his being in debt over drugs.\n\nAt his funeral, a relative placed a book with Goines in his casket, but it was stolen.\n\n\n\nGoines's writing has had an impact upon several people, with several rappers inserting mentions of Goines and his writing into their lyrics. In his 1996 song \"Tradin' War Stories\", rapper 2Pac writes \"Machiavelli was my tutor, Donald Goines my father figure\". On the \"Real Brothas\" album by hip-hop duo B.G. Knocc Out & Dresta, the second one mentioned the author by rapping \"take a good look because you're looking at a crook/my life done been took, right outta Donald Goines' book\". Ludacris mentions Goines in his 2006 song \"Eyebrows Down\". AZ compares himself to Donald Goines' work in \"Rather Unique\", with the line, \"Your mind's boggled but I'm as deep as Donald Goines' novels\". Nas also named the song \"Black Girl Lost\" on his sophomore album \"It Was Written\" after the book by Goines. The New York rap trio Cru had a song called \"Goines Tale\" where all of Donald's book titles were incorporated into the song's lyrics. Rapper Jadakiss also references Goines in the Sheek Louch song \"Mighty D-Block (2 Guns Up)\" with the lyrics \"Yo, the revolve' or the mati's cool, Knife game like Daddy Cool's, since Bally Shoes\".\n\nGoines' books have been utilized in several prison literacy programs and his novel \"Dopefiend\" has been taught in a Rutgers University class.\n\nSome of Goines's works have been adapted into film. His book \"Crime Partners\" was turned into a 2001 film starring Ice-T, Snoop Dogg, and Ja Rule, and in 2004 his book \"Never Die Alone\" was also released as a film starring DMX.\n\nIn 2006 a graphic novel adaptation of the book \"Daddy Cool\" was released by Holloway House.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2247998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247998", "title": "Dorf, Switzerland", "text": "Dorf, Switzerland\n\nDorf is a municipality in the district of Andelfingen in the canton of Zürich in Switzerland. The German word \"\" means “village”.\n\nDorf is first mentioned in 1044 as \"Dorf\", though the document that mentions this is a copy from 1347.\n\nBecause Dorf simply means village in German, there are a number of Dorfs throughout Switzerland, Germany and Austria. In Switzerland, Dorf is the only municipality with this name. There are a number of smaller villages or hamlets with either an entire name of Dorf/\"Dorfli\" or ending in -dorf.\n\nDorf has an area of . Of this area, 52.7% is used for agricultural purposes, while 40.6% is forested. The rest of the land, (6.7%) is settled.\n\nThe municipality is located at the entrance to the Flaacker river valley.\n\nDorf has a population (as of ) of . , 6.7% of the population was made up of foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years the population has grown at a rate of 20.3%. Most of the population () speaks German (95.4%), with English being second most common ( 1.3%) and Serbo-Croatian being third ( 1.3%).\n\nIn the 2007 election the most popular party was the SVP which received 55.5% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the SPS (9.5%), the local small left-wing parties (9%) and the CSP (8.5%).\n\nThe age distribution of the population () is children and teenagers (0–19 years old) make up 27.3% of the population, while adults (20–64 years old) make up 63.9% and seniors (over 64 years old) make up 8.8%. The entire Swiss population is generally well educated. In Dorf about 84.6% of the population (between age 25-64) have completed either non-mandatory upper secondary education or additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). \n\nDorf has an unemployment rate of 1.2%. , there were 42 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 14 businesses involved in this sector. 30 people are employed in the secondary sector and there are nine businesses in this sector. 73 people are employed in the tertiary sector, with 15 businesses in this sector.\nThe historical population is given in the following table:\n\n"}
{"id": "2248000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248000", "title": "WUBE-FM", "text": "WUBE-FM\n\nWUBE-FM (105.1 FM) is a radio station broadcasting a country music format. Licensed to Cincinnati, Ohio, United States, the station serves the Cincinnati area. The station is currently owned by Hubbard Broadcasting. The station is also broadcast on HD radio and airs a separate country format on its HD-2 side channel. Its studios and transmitter are located just northeast of Downtown Cincinnati two blocks from one another.\n\nWUBE hosts the \"Free Music Stage\" At Taste of Cincinnati and Jammin' in the Country in neighboring Clermont County. Both events bring national known country music artists as well as local and emerging artists to the Tri-State area.\n\nThe station was originally known as WCPO-FM, owned by the E. W. Scripps Company, owner of the \"Cincinnati Post\", along with WCPO (1230 AM, now WDBZ) and WCPO-TV (channel 9). One of the WCPO-FM announcers identified the frequency in the legal ID as \"10-51\" (ten-fifty-one) which was unique at the time. A video with audio of a WCPO-FM legal ID can be seen on YouTube. In January 1966, shortly after Scripps sold WCPO-AM-FM to Kaye-Smith Broadcasting, both stations changed call letters to WUBE & WUBE-FM. WUBE-FM would adopt its long-running country format in April 1969, with the AM partially simulcasting the FM throughout the 1970s.\n\nKaye-Smith Broadcasting sold WUBE-AM-FM to Plough Broadcasting in the late 1970s, who would then sell the stations to DKM Broadcasting in 1984. Two years later, both WUBE and what was then WDJO would be sold to American Media. In 1991, American Media sold the stations to National Radio Partners, who would later change their name to Chancellor Media, and then to AMFM, Inc. in 1999. The following year, due to AMFM's merger with Clear Channel Communications, WUBE-FM was sold to Infinity Broadcasting (which became CBS Radio in December 2005), while their AM sister was sold to Blue Chip Broadcasting. CBS sold WUBE to Entercom on August 21, 2006, along with CBS Radio's other Cincinnati stations.\n\nOn January 18, 2007, almost as soon as it entered the Cincinnati radio market, Entercom announced its exit from the market by trading its entire Cincinnati cluster, including WUBE, to Bonneville International together with three radio stations in Seattle, Washington, for all three of Bonneville's FM radio stations in San Francisco, California, and $1 million cash. In May 2007, Bonneville officially took over control of the Cincinnati radio cluster through a local marketing agreement, with Bonneville acquiring Entercom's remaining interest in the stations outright on March 14, 2008. WUBE was one of the winners in the 2008 NAB Crystal Radio Awards.\n\nOn January 19, 2011, it was announced that Bonneville International will sell WUBE and several other stations to Hubbard Broadcasting for $505 million. The sale was completed on April 29, 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2248004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248004", "title": "Everett Christian School", "text": "Everett Christian School\n\nEverett Christian School (ECS) is a private Christian school in Everett, Washington, United States. Established in 1926, it is run by the parents of its students, and provides education from preschool through the eighth grade. Everett Christian School's colors are blue and white, and their mascot is a Badger. \n\nEverett Christian School was established in 1926 by parents as the Society of Christian Schools in Everett. Since 1926, ECS has been educating children from Christian homes based in a Reformed Christian tradition. Everett Christian School participates in the Tri-County League in the sports of soccer, basketball and track & field. ECS is an approved institution of academic learning by the State of Washington and is accredited through the Christian Schools International. Everett Christian is also a member of the groups WFIS and Northwest Christian School International. Everett Christian School has between 60 and 100 students (K-8) on average with a faculty to student ratio of 1 to 14.\n\nThe Everett Christian School parents, faculty, and staff believe the Bible teaches that God established a special relationship (covenant) with Christians. Because of that relationship, Christians participate in this special relationship with God in all aspects of their lives.\n\nThe stated purpose of the ECS is to confront students with the important realities of life, so they may learn how to evaluate them in relation to the principles taught in the Christian Bible.\n\n"}
{"id": "2248008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248008", "title": "Civic Trust (England)", "text": "Civic Trust (England)\n\nThe Civic Trust of England was a charitable organisation founded in 1957. It ceased operations in 2009 and went into administration due to lack of funds. \n\nThe Civic Society Initiative was set up in 2009 with the support of The National Trust, CPRE and other organisations to ensure a future for the civic society movement and was formally launched in April 2010 as Civic Voice. \n\nCivic Trust's prime purpose was to improve the quality of new and historic buildings and public spaces, and to help improve the general quality of urban life. The trust operated from two main offices, in London and Liverpool and supported a national network of civic societies. These were local groups in which volunteer members helped to improve their surroundings. It ran the Civic Trust Regeneration Unit, which supported urban renewal through programmes addressing issues of concern such as \"the night time economy\". It ran campaigns to influence and change thinking on civic matters, and change government policy. It helped establish conservation areas and coordinate Heritage Open Days.\n\nThe Civic Trust Awards was established in 1959 to recognise outstanding architecture, urban design, landscape and public are which improve the quality of life for local communities. Whilst the Civic Trust as an umbrella organisation went into Administration in April 2009, the Civic Trust Awards have continued as an independent scheme operating on a not-for-profit basis as a Community Interest Company. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2248013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248013", "title": "Roger Wilco (software)", "text": "Roger Wilco (software)\n\nRoger Wilco is one of the first voice-over-IP client programs designed primarily for use with online multiplayer video games. Roger Wilco enabled online gamers to talk to one another through a computer headset or other audio input device instead of typing messages to each other. Within a year of the software's introduction, over 2 million online video gamers were using the application.\n\n\"Roger\" and \"Wilco\" are procedure words which, in radiophone communication, mean \"I understood your message and I will comply\".\n\nRoger Wilco was developed by a US startup company called Resounding Technology. Three of the company's four founders were roommates when they were undergraduate students at Princeton University: Adam Frankl, Tony Lovell, and Henri de Marcellus. David Lewis, who led marketing and business development, was based in Silicon Valley and was responsible for growing the Roger Wilco community and managed partnerships with video game publishers who bundled Roger Wilco with their games. Plantronics, PNY, and other game peripheral manufacturers also bundled Roger Wilco with their products.\n\nThe company began publishing pre-release versions of the software in the autumn of 1998; the first general availability release, Roger Wilco Mark I, followed in May 1999. The company distributed both the client and server as freeware. The server software, Roger Wilco Base Station, was developed for Linux, FreeBSD, Windows 9x, and Windows NT. Development of a client for Mac OS never progressed beyond the alpha phase.\n\nDavid Lewis demonstrated the product's server-less voice capabilities to Mpath Interactive, a startup company in Silicon Valley, who went on to acquire Resounding Technology based on their proprietary peer-to-peer voice technology. The company IPO'd soon after and renamed it to HearMe, Inc.\n\nIn December 2000, GameSpy bought the Roger Wilco intellectual property. In early 2001, they integrated an updated version of the client software into their game server browser, GameSpy Arcade. Players could use the Roger Wilco software if they bought a subscription to GameSpy's Game Tools suite. David Lewis licensed SDK versions of the voice technology to virtually every major game publisher including Activision, EA, Microsoft, Ubisoft, and others. The licensing arrangement with Microsoft enabled the use of the Voice SDK for Microsoft's Xbox and required that all multi-player Xbox game developers included in-game voice chat capabilities. Today, virtually every leading online multiplayer game includes voicechat due to the pioneering efforts by the Resounding team.\n\nGameSpy published the final version of the Roger Wilco client for Windows on July 8, 2003. That year, a vice president of consumer products at GameSpy Industries told \"The Boston Globe\" that Roger Wilco had about 5 million users.\n\n"}
{"id": "2248015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248015", "title": "Robert Allen (song composer)", "text": "Robert Allen (song composer)\n\nRobert Allen Deitcher (February 5, 1927 – October 1, 2000) was an American pianist and an arranger and writer of music for popular songs. \n\nAllen was born to a Jewish family in Troy, New York and had 4 children: a son, Gordon, and 3 daughters, Pamela, Diana, and Katie.\n\nHe was an accompanist for Perry Como, Peter Lind Hayes, and Arthur Godfrey. Many of his compositions were collaborations with lyricist Al Stillman. Allen lived in New Rochelle, New York from 1963, much of his professional life. Three of his most famous songs were: \"(There's No Place Like) Home for the Holidays\",\"Everybody Loves a Lover\" and \"Chances Are\".\n\nRobert Allen died in Quogue, New York of colon cancer at the age of 73. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2248020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248020", "title": "Hydrocortisone acetate", "text": "Hydrocortisone acetate\n\nHydrocortisone acetate is a synthetic glucocorticoid corticosteroid and a corticosteroid ester.\n"}
{"id": "2248021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248021", "title": "Hydrocortisone butyrate", "text": "Hydrocortisone butyrate\n\nHydrocortisone butyrate is a corticosteroid that comes in one of the following forms:\n\nIt is a group IV corticosteroid under US classification. \n\n"}
{"id": "2248024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248024", "title": "Hydrocortisone cypionate", "text": "Hydrocortisone cypionate\n\nHydrocortisone cypionate is a synthetic glucocorticoid corticosteroid and a corticosteroid ester.\n"}
{"id": "2248025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248025", "title": "Aga Khan Award", "text": "Aga Khan Award\n\nAga Khan Award may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2248030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248030", "title": "Hydrocortisone sodium phosphate", "text": "Hydrocortisone sodium phosphate\n\nHydrocortisone sodium phosphate is a synthetic glucocorticoid corticosteroid and a corticosteroid ester.\n"}
{"id": "2248031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248031", "title": "1944 Great Atlantic hurricane", "text": "1944 Great Atlantic hurricane\n\nThe 1944 Great Atlantic hurricane was a destructive and powerful tropical cyclone that swept across a large portion of the United States East Coast in September 1944. Impacts were most significant in New England, though significant effects were also felt along the Outer Banks, Mid-Atlantic states, and the Canadian Maritimes. Due to its ferocity and path, the storm drew comparisons to the 1938 Long Island Express, known as one of the worst storms in New England history.\n\nThough the precursor to the 1944 hurricane was first identified well east of the Lesser Antilles on September 4, the disturbance only became well organized to be considered a tropical cyclone on September 9 northeast of the Virgin Islands. Tracking west-northwest, the storm gradually intensified and reached peak intensity as a Category 4-equivalent hurricane on September 13 north of the Bahamas after curving northward. A day later, the storm passed by the Outer Banks and later made landfall on Long Island and Rhode Island as a weaker hurricane on September 15. The storm eventually transitioned into an extratropical cyclone, after which it continued moving northeast before merging with another extratropical system off of Greenland on September 16.\n\nThe origins of the 1944 hurricane can be traced back to a tropical wave first identified well east of the Lesser Antilles on September 4. Over the next few days, the disturbance slowly traversed west-northwestward without producing any significant weather that would hint at tropical cyclogenesis. On September 7, an area of low pressure, albeit disorganized, formed in association with the tropical wave east of Barbados. The following day, the barometric depression became more well-defined, prompting the Weather Bureau in San Juan, Puerto Rico to issue advisories on the tropical disturbance. As a result of the sparseness of available surface observations east of the Lesser Antilles, a reconnaissance flight was dispatched to investigate the storm late on September 9; the flight reported that the disturbance had strengthened into a newly-formed but fully-fledged hurricane. Due to the seemingly rapid development of the storm, the Atlantic hurricane reanalysis project concluded that the storm likely began earlier and as a weaker system; thus, HURDAT—the official track database for hurricanes in the North Atlantic dating back to 1851—lists the tropical cyclone as having begun a tropical storm with winds of 50 mph (80 km/h) at 06:00 UTC on September 9.\n\nAfter formation, the tropical cyclone gradually intensified as it slowly moved west-northwestward, reaching the threshold for hurricane intensity at 06:00 UTC on September 10 while north of the Virgin Islands. Strengthening continued thereafter, and by September 12, the storm reached an intensity equivalent to a Category 3 hurricane on the modern-day Saffir–Simpson hurricane wind scale. Later that day, the cyclone strengthened further into a Category 4-equivalent and was given the moniker of \"Great Atlantic hurricane\" by the Weather Bureau in Miami, Florida. Concurrently, the tropical cyclone began to curve and accelerate towards the north. At 12:00 UTC on September 13, the hurricane reached its peak intensity with maximum sustained winds of 145 mph (230 km/h), and five hours later, a ship documented a minimum barometric pressure of 933 mbar (hPa; 27.55 inHg). The storm's pressure may have been lower at the time as it is unknown whether or not the observation took place in the eye, though the 909 mbar (hPa; 26.85 inHg) pressure suggested by meteorologist Ivan Ray Tannehill was considered too low. \n\nThe hurricane began to gradually weaken after reaching peak intensity on September 13. In the morning hours of September 14, the storm passed just east of Cape Hatteras and eastern Virginia as a small but powerful hurricane with winds of 125 mph (205 km/h). Afterwards, the cyclone curved slightly further towards the northeast and continued to accelerate; at 02:00 UTC on September 15, the hurricane made landfall near Southampton in eastern Long Island with winds of 105 mph (165 km/h). The storm then crossed the island and Long Island Sound before making a second landfall two hours later near Point Judith, Rhode Island as a slightly weaker storm with winds of 100 mph (160 km/h). After crossing Rhode Island and Massachusetts, the tropical system transitioned into an extratropical cyclone off the coast of Maine on September 15; these extratropical remnants continued to track towards the northeast and across the Canadian Maritimes before they were last noted merging with another extratropical cyclone off of Greenland at 12:00 UTC on September 16.\n\nUpon being designated a tropical cyclone, the Weather Bureau began advising extreme caution to shipping within the expected path of the hurricane. Precaution was also urged in the eastern Bahamas. The first hurricane warning issued by the Weather Bureau in association with the storm was for the northern Bahamas on September 12. In Miami, Florida, the American Red Cross began preparing its resources for a potential regional calamity; however, the Weather Bureau did not necessarily anticipate the storm striking Miami. Royal Air Force aircraft stationed in Nassau were flown to Miami in order to avoid the storm. Although tropical cyclone naming was not in practice at the time, the Weather Bureau in Miami, Florida, began naming the system the \"Great Atlantic hurricane\" in their public advisories on September 12 to better convey the life-threatening risks associated with the powerful hurricane. The following day, storm warnings were issued for areas from the United States East Coast from Savannah, Georgia to Cape Hatteras. Small craft in offshore areas further south were advised to remain in port. As Morehead City, North Carolina was forecast to be submerged under several feet of water, the city's entire population was evacuated; other resort locales along the coast of North Carolina were also evacuated. Similarly, the 3000–4000 personnel constituting Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point were evacuated inland; U.S. Army and Navy aircraft were also sent inland.\n\nAs the hurricane was passing near the Outer Banks, hurricane warnings were extended as far north as Portland, Maine, and storm warnings were issued as far north as Eastport, Maine. Precautions across New England and Mid-Atlantic states began in earnest once the storm began tracking northwards. Sixty buses were readied in Ocean City, Maryland to evacuate the seaside resort's permanent and tourist residents. The 3,000 residents of Fire Island, one of the barrier islands off of Long Island, were ordered to evacuate the islet. Nearby, the Brooklyn Red Cross Chapter began readying for possible relief work, stocking five mobile canteens with emergency rations. The United States First Naval District were directed to have personnel and rescue craft on standby to respond to emergencies. The Massachusetts State Police began relaying Weather Bureau bulletins to local public services via telecommunications. Personnel on duty were called back to barracks for later deployment in relief operations. The Massachusetts National Guard were ordered to standby and prepare for potential assistance of regional emergency services. Other Massachusetts state agencies were also allocating resources to aid in relief operations.\n\nPassing close to the Outer Banks and Hampton Roads area, strong hurricane-force winds were reported across eastern North Carolina and southeastern Virginia. Though the strongest winds recorded peaked at around 90 mph (145 km/h), winds up to 105 mph (170 km/h) were analyzed by the Atlantic hurricane reanalysis project to have occurred between the two states. The strong winds knocked out telecommunications networks on the Outer Banks, with telephone lines in Manteo, North Carolina and Elizabeth City, North Carolina destroyed by the storm. Small homes in the two cities were also leveled by the winds. Power outages impacted New Bern, North Carolina. At the coast, the hurricane's storm surge pushed inland along unprotected coastline, destroying hundreds of boats, damaging boardwalks, and depositing debris along the Carolina beaches. Coastal farmland was inundated, with damage to corn and other crops initially estimated at \"thousands of dollars.\"\n\nThe hurricane was infamous for the amount of damage it caused along the New Jersey coastline. The shore towns on Long Beach Island, as well as Barnegat, Atlantic City, Ocean City, and Cape May all suffered major damage. Long Beach Island, Barnegat Island and Brigantine all lost their causeways to the mainland in the storm effectively cutting them off from the rest of New Jersey. Additionally both islands lost hundreds of homes, in particular the Harvey Cedars section of Long Beach Island where many homes in the town were swept out to sea. In Atlantic City the hurricane's storm surge forced water into the lobbies of many of the resorts famous hotels. The Atlantic City boardwalk suffered major damage along with the Boardwalk Hall Auditorium Organ and the city's famous ocean piers. Both the famed Steel Pier and Heinz Pier were partially destroyed by the hurricane with only the Steel Pier getting rebuilt. Ocean City and Cape May also lost many homes in the storm with Ocean City's boardwalk suffering significant damage. Larry Savadove devotes a whole chapter in his book \"Great Storms of the Jersey Shore\" to the hurricane and the imprint and lore it left on the Jersey Shore.\n\nRain totals of around 7 inches (178 mm) occurred in the Hartford, Connecticut area, and the city of Bridgeport saw the greatest official total at 10.7 inches (272.8 mm). Tobacco and fruit damage in Connecticut totaled to about $2 million (1944 USD), with similar overall damage costs occurring in Rhode Island. More than $5 million (1944 USD) in damage which occurred on Cape Cod can be attributed to lost boats, as well as fallen trees and utility damage. A total of 28 people died throughout New England as a result of the storm. In Bath, Maine, a 10-year-old boy was electrocuted when he came into contact with downed wires. In Augusta, Maine, a 40-year-old woman was run over by a bicyclist who was blinded by heavy rains. 4.34 inches of rain fell during the storm at Bates College. Many tree limbs were downed by high winds during the storm, and in Androscoggin County, Maine, 40% of the apple crop was destroyed.\n\nThe storm was also responsible for sinking the Navy destroyer approximately east of Vero Beach, Florida, with a loss of 248 sailors. The hurricane was one of the most powerful to traverse the Eastern Seaboard, reaching Category 4 when it encountered \"Warrington\", and producing hurricane-force winds over a diameter of . The hurricane also produced waves in excess of in height. The hurricane and the sinking of USS \"Warrington\" are documented in the 1996 book \"The Dragon's Breath - Hurricane At Sea\", written by Commander Robert A. Dawes, Jr. (a former Commanding Officer of \"Warrington\"), and published by Naval Institute Press.\n\nIn addition to \"Warrington,\" the Coast Guard cutters CGC \"Bedloe\" (WSC-128) and CGC \"Jackson\" (WSC-142) both capsized and sank off Cape Hatteras, the minesweeper YMS-409 foundered and sank killing all 33 on board, and the lightship \"Vineyard Sound\" (LV-73) was sunk with the loss of all twelve aboard. Finally, the hurricane drove the SS \"Thomas Tracy\" aground in Rehoboth Beach, Delaware.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2248032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248032", "title": "Hydrocortisone sodium succinate", "text": "Hydrocortisone sodium succinate\n\nHydrocortisone sodium succinate is a synthetic glucocorticoid corticosteroid and a corticosteroid ester.\n"}
{"id": "2248034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248034", "title": "Hydrocortisone valerate", "text": "Hydrocortisone valerate\n\nHydrocortisone valerate is a synthetic glucocorticoid corticosteroid and a corticosteroid ester.\n"}
{"id": "2248043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248043", "title": "Christian Schools International", "text": "Christian Schools International\n\nChristian Schools International (CSI) was established in 1920 and supports Christian school teachers who want Bible-based textbooks for their classrooms, principals and school administrators investigating employee benefit plans, Christian school board members seeking information about governance, and parents looking for a Christian school for their children.\n\nChristian Schools International's mission is to advance Christian education and to support schools in their task of teaching students to know God and his world and to glorify him through obedient service. \n\nThe organization includes nearly 500 Christian schools in the United States and Canada, which employ approximately 10,000 teachers and enroll 100,000 students.\n\nChristian Schools International publishes a magazine for parents, \"Christian Home & School\" and also assists schools through their accreditation programs focused on school improvement.\n\n"}
{"id": "2248054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248054", "title": "1919 Florida Keys hurricane", "text": "1919 Florida Keys hurricane\n\nThe 1919 Florida Keys hurricane (also known as the 1919 Key West hurricane) was a massive and damaging tropical cyclone that swept across areas of the northern Caribbean Sea and the United States Gulf Coast in September 1919. Remaining an intense Atlantic hurricane throughout much of its existence, the storm's slow-movement and sheer size prolonged and enlarged the scope of the hurricane's effects, making it one of the deadliest hurricanes in United States history. Impacts were largely concentrated around the Florida Keys and South Texas areas, though lesser but nonetheless significant effects were felt in Cuba and other areas of the United States Gulf Coast. The hurricanes peak strength in Dry Tortugas in the lower Florida keys, also made it one of the most powerful Atlantic hurricanes to make landfall in the United States.\n\nThe hurricane developed near the Leeward Islands as a tropical depression on September 2 and gradually gained in strength as it tracked on a generally west-northwesterly path, crossing the Mona Passage and moving across the Bahamas. On September 7, the storm reached hurricane intensity over the eastern Bahamas. On September 9–10, the storm made its eponymous pass of the Florida Keys, passing over the Dry Tortugas with an intensity equivalent to that of a modern-day Category 4 hurricane. Over the next several days, the intense cyclone traversed the Gulf of Mexico, fluctuating in strength before making landfall near Texas' Baffin Bay on September 14 as a large Category 3 hurricane. As it tracked further inland, land interaction caused the storm to gradually weaken; the storm was last noted on September 16 over West Texas.\n\nBased on isolated observations east of the Lesser Antilles on September 1, the precursor to the 1919 Florida Keys hurricane may have been a disorganized tropical wave that tracked westward towards the Leeward Islands. The next day, additional observations indicated that the disturbance had acquired a cyclonic circulation; thus, the system was determined to have become a tropical depression by 12:00 UTC that day just east of Guadeloupe. Gradual strengthening occurred as the depression tracked west-northwest, attaining tropical storm intensity at 06:00 UTC on September 3. Twelve hours later, the tropical cyclone clipped the extreme-southwestern portion of Puerto Rico with maximum sustained winds of 50 mph (80 km/h). The cyclone maintained a low-end tropical storm intensity as it paralleled the northern coast of Hispaniola the following day. On September 6, the storm abruptly turned towards the north in the direction of the Turks and Caicos before resuming a more westerly trajectory a day later.\n\nAt 06:00 UTC on September 7, the cyclone strengthened to hurricane intensity north of Crooked Island. Traversing westward across the southern extents of the Bahamas, the newly developed hurricane steadily grew in size and intensity. September 7, the hurricane reached the equivalent of a Category 2 on the modern-day Saffir–Simpson scale and later reached major hurricane strength on September 8 shortly before crossing Andros Island. On September 9, the storm intensified further to Category 4 strength before passing roughly south of Key West, Florida in the Florida Straits. At 07:00 UTC on September 10, the hurricane made landfall on the Dry Tortugas at peak intensity with winds of 150 mph (240 km/h) extending as far as 17 mi (28 km) outwards from the center and a low barometric pressure of 927 mbar (hPa; 27.37 inHg) based on a barometer observation in the eye of the storm. At the time, this made the tropical cyclone the second strongest to strike the United States since 1851, only behind the 1886 Indianola hurricane. After landfall, the storm slowly moved westward into the Gulf of Mexico.\n\nFrom September 10 to September 14, the tropical cyclone traversed the Gulf of Mexico, maintaining a powerful intensity. On September 12, the hurricane briefly weakened to Category 3 intensity before restrengthening shortly thereafter. The following day, the storm reached a secondary peak intensity with winds of 145 mph (235 km/h) and a minimum pressure of 931 mbar (hPa; 27.50 inHg) over the western Gulf of Mexico before weakening precipitously afterwards. At 21:00 UTC on September 14, the hurricane made its final landfall near Baffin Bay as a Category 3 hurricane with winds of 115 mph (185 km/h) and a central pressure of 950 mbar (hPa; 28.06 inHg). Upon moving ashore, the storm was unusually large; its radius of maximum winds measured 40 mi (65 km) compared to the average of 21 mi (33 km) for storms of similar intensities. As the hurricane tracked further inland, land interaction weakened the cyclone, with winds dropping below hurricane-force on September 15 and then below tropical storm-force the next day. By 18:00 UTC on September 16, the tropical cyclone had dissipated over West Texas, near the border between Texas and Mexico.\nDue to the lack of hurricane observations at sea, the first tropical cyclone warning prompted by the United States Weather Bureau was a storm warning on September 8 issued for areas along the Florida coast from Jupiter on the east coast to Fort Myers on the peninsula's west coast with the storm already a major hurricane over the Bahamas. The first hurricane warning was issued the next day for coastal areas from Jupiter to Key West, with all vessels requested to avoid the Florida Straits and the waters off Florida's Atlantic coast. In addition, the storm's projected path into the Gulf of Mexico prompted the bureau to also direct the clearance of ships in the hurricane's trajectory. In Miami, Florida, the city's power plant cut off its electrical output as a precautionary measure, forcing an intentional power outage in the city. On the 10th at 10:30 p.m., northeast storm warnings were issued from Carrabelle, Florida to New Orleans, Louisiana. On the 11th at 4 p.m., the storm warnings for the northeast Gulf coast were changed to hurricane warnings, and extended westward along the length of the Louisiana coast. At 9 p.m., northwest storm warnings were issued for the northwest Gulf coast from Port Arthur to Velasco, Texas. At 4 p.m. on the 12th, storm warnings were in effect from Mobile, Alabama to Pensacola, Florida, with hurricane warnings in effect along the Mississippi and Louisiana coasts. On the evening of the 13th, northwest storm warnings were in effect for the entire Texas coast.\n\nWhile passing through the Bahamas on September 8, the Ward Line steamer \"Corydon\" struck land and later sank during the storm. The ship was not found until September 11, at which time it was discovered that 27 people on board had drowned while nine others managed to survive after swimming to shore. On the islands, strong winds produced by the hurricane destroyed numerous homes and sank several schooners, leaving many homeless. In the Florida Strait, a Cuban vessel carrying 45 people was stranded during the storm. However, another ship in the area managed to reach the Cuban vessel and rescue all passengers.\n\nAlthough the hurricane never made landfall on Cuba, the storm's close proximity to the northern stretches of the island led to considerable impacts. A strong storm surge combined with wind-swept waves topped the Havana seawall, flooding areas of the city as far as six blocks inland and prompting the evacuation of homes at risk. The inundation also disabled some of Havana's tram systems and halted automotive traffic.\n\nA tornado, spawned by the hurricane, struck Goulds, Florida on September 10, moving inland from Biscayne Bay. It caused US$25,000 (1919 dollars) in damage. Of the approximately 600-900 people officially reported killed in the storm, roughly 500 of them were aboard ten ships lost at sea. Communication was cut off for the entirety of Florida south of Miami following the storm's passage. By comparison, South Florida outside the Florida Keys remained relatively unscathed. Winds in Tampa only reached 26 mph (42 km/h) as the hurricane passed to the city's south. Despite otherwise minor damage in Miami, 17 houseboats and small craft sunk in Biscayne Bay as a result of rough seas. Damage and casualties on the Texas coast were also severe, in part due to false rumors that the storm had turned north into Louisiana, which warranted taking storm warnings in Corpus Christi down the day before landfall. Though warnings were posted again early the following day, the citizens were ill-prepared when the hurricane made landfall south of the city as a major hurricane; the storm surge was as high as .\n\nThis large storm spread winds of across Miami, Florida, Burrwood, Louisiana, and Galveston, Texas. A total of 1500 cattle were driven off of Padre Island into Laguna Madre. Heavy rains were common across southern Texas, with numerous locations recording to of rainfall within 24 hours, which set daily rainfall records. Storm surge and abnormally high tides resulted in extensive damage. About 23 blocks of homes were destroyed or washed away in Corpus Christi. A total of 284 bodies were recovered in the city and damage totaled at least $20 million. In Matagorda, Palacios, and Port Lavaca, wharves, fish houses, and small boats were significantly impacted. The docks and buildings in Port Aransas were swept away, while school building remained standing. Houses and crops were also flattened in Victoria. At least 310 deaths were reported in Texas, but there may have been as many as 600 fatalities. The steamer Valbanera was found sunk between Key West and the Dry Tortugas with 488 aboard whom were all missing without trace. Among eight former Navy patrol yachts lost in the hurricane was the USS Helena I (SP-24).\n\nThe storm surge caused by this hurricane prompted the city of Corpus Christi to construct a breakwater in 1925, and a seawall was subsequently built in 1940. Robert Simpson, a storm survivor who was 6 years old at the time, related his experience in an interview in 1989. Simpson, citing inspiration from this hurricane, pursued a career in meteorology and later served as the first director of the National Hurricane Research Project and as a director of the National Hurricane Center (NHC). Additionally, he co-developed and published the Saffir–Simpson scale with Herbert Saffir in 1973, a hurricane intensity scale implemented by the NHC in 1974.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2248055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248055", "title": "Juan Villafuerte", "text": "Juan Villafuerte\n\nJuan Villafuerte (July 19, 1945 – August 15, 1977) (Juan Antonio Villafuerte Estrada) was an artist known for his transmutated drawings and paintings. Villafuerte is among the ranks of other prominent Latin American painters such as Eduardo Kingman, Enrique Tábara, Aníbal Villacís, Félix Arauz, Oswaldo Guayasamin, Judith Gutierrez, Hernan Zuniga and Jose Carreño.\n\nVillafuerte was born on July 19, 1945, in Guayaquil, Ecuador to Manuel Villafuerte and Rosa Estrada. Juan was the youngest of four brothers, Manuel, and two sisters, Nila and Vilma. Nila was 13 when Juan was born. Nila later went on to marry Félix Arauz.\n\nIn 1960, Villafuerte attended the School of Beautiful Arts in Guayaquil and was mentored by Theo Constanté, Hans Michelson and Caesar Andrade Faini. In 1964, Villafuerte and Hernan Zuniga moved to the factory of Juan Manuel Guano to work and live the Boehemian life of an artist. Villafuerte left the school in 1966 and began drawing from nature. Although Villafuerte did not follow in their footsteps he was greatly inspired by Gilberto Almeida and Enrique Tabara's Pre-Columbian inspired paintings. After graduation, Villafuerte participated in numerous Collective Exhibitions at the House of Culture, Nucleus of the Guayas, and the Museum of Colonial Art.\n\nVillafuerte's first solo exhibit in Guayaquil was held at the North American Ecuadorian Center. The exhibit catalogue and invitations contained extremely enthusiastic commentaries of Villafuerte's work by such writers as, Bolivar Moyano and Diego Oguendo, among other pens. In the newspaper, the art critic, Manuel Esteban Mejía, spoke of Villafuerte's work at the exhibit saying, \"It is not complacent, or made to please, but to trouble. It outlines deformities\". Other articles spoke of the works as being at the core of the humanist philosophy. In 1967, Villafuerte presented an exhibit called \"Personal Muestra\" at the Galleria Arte de Quito that consisted of his first series of Vietnam images. The \"Vietnam Series\" lasted until 1973 when the war ended. In his \"Vietnam Series\", Villafuerte would finish a drawing and rip it up into pieces and fix them to fine cardboard, then he would continue drawing and add in various newspaper and magazine clippings of the war. In 1968, Villafuerte exhibited with the group, VAN, at The Museum of Colonial Art in Quito. VAN was a group of modern Informalist artists that primarily consisted of Enrique Tábara, Aníbal Villacís, Estuardo Maldonado, Luis Molinari and Gilberto Almeida, who were in a constant search for a new modern aesthetic derived from Pre-Columbian art.\n\nVillafuerte left Ecuador in 1968 to study engraving, drawing, and painting at the School of Beautiful Arts in Barcelona. During his study in Barcelona, Villafuerte became fascinated with the works of Rembrandt, Durero, and Goya, as well as the intense work of Antonio Saura. The definitive irruption of the Neo-figurativism happened at the beginning of the 1970s, where Jose Carreño and Villafuerte represented Spain and Ecuador.\n\nThe early Seventies saw the emergence of Villafuerte's, \"Transmutations Series\" of drawings, which consisted of exploding heads, monstrous creatures, figures of half women and half birds with multiple mouths and protruding veins. During this time, Villafuerte held many exhibits with the likes of Zuniga, Carreño and Yaulema all across Spain and Ecuador. Villafuerte was a very hard worker and was known to spend at least 16 hours a day drawing. He was also known to spend hours drawing satirical cartoons, often depicting the impoverished struggles of Latin Americans. One of his many important works is \"Curas y Saldados\" (1972), which shows the maturity of his drawing and the nerve of the color.\nVillafuerte died of cancer on August 15, 1977 while living in Barcelona. He left a great deal of master works behind thanks to his hard working nature. Much of his work was left to the family in Ecuador; However, there is still a large body of work that remains in Spain with his widow, Aracelli Molina, as well as various galleries and collections throughout Spain and Ecuador.\n\nOne incident that was widely publicized in both Spain and Ecuador was the brief loss of the corpse of Villafuerte. After Villafuerte passed in Spain, his father and Nila flew to Spain to bring the body home. When they arrived back in Guayaquil there was a large crowd gathered to pay respects, but when the plane was unloaded there was no corpse. It was later discovered that the corpse had accidentally been sent to Lima, Peru. Once the body was located it was sent back to Guayaquil where it was held under guard for a short period of time at the House of Ecuadorian Culture. Villafuerte was finally laid to rest at the General Cemetery in Guayaquil.\n\nVillafuerte took drawing to all possibilities of the imagination, with the highest level of skill. In 1979, the first retrospective to honor the work of Villafuerte was held at the Centennial Gallery of Guayaquil and since then his legacy has continued to grow and has secured his place among the great Latin American masters of the 20th Century.\n\n"}
{"id": "2248056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248056", "title": "Ayesha Jalal", "text": "Ayesha Jalal\n\nAyesha Jalal (Punjabi, ) is a Pakistani-American historian who serves as the Mary Richardson Professor of History at Tufts University, and was the recipient of the 1998 MacArthur Foundation Fellowship.. Ayesha is married to Indian historian and politician Sugata Bose. \n\nBorn in Lahore in 1956, Ayesha Jalal studied at Wellesley College before moving to Trinity College, Cambridge where she received her doctorate in 1983. She stayed at Cambridge until 1987, working as a fellow of Trinity College and later as a Leverhulme Fellow. She moved to Washington, D.C. in 1985, to work as a fellow at the Woodrow Wilson Center and later as Academy Scholar at the Harvard University's Academy for International and Area Studies. In 1999, she joined Tufts University as a tenured professor.\n\nThe bulk of her work deals with the creation of Muslim identities in modern South Asia.\n\nAyesha Jalal was born in Lahore, Pakistan in 1956 to Hamid Jalal, a senior Pakistani civil servant and Zakia Jalal, who was Saadat Hasan Manto's wife Safia's sister.Therefore, she is related to the renowned Urdu fiction writer Saadat Hasan Manto. She came to New York City at the age of 14 when her father was posted at the Pakistan Mission to the United Nations.\n\nShe obtained her BA, majoring in History and Political Science, from Wellesley College, USA, and her doctorate in history from Trinity College at University of Cambridge, where she wrote her Ph.D. dissertation: 'Jinnah, the Muslim League and the Demand for \nPakistan'.\n\nAyesha Jalal has been Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge (1980–84), Leverhulme Fellow at the Center of South Asian Studies, Cambridge (1984–87), Fellow of the Woodrow Wilson Center for International Scholars in Washington, DC (1985–86) and Academy Scholar at Harvard University's Academy for International and Area Studies (1988–90). She has taught at the University of Wisconsin–Madison, Tufts University, Columbia University, Harvard University and Lahore University of Management Sciences.\n\nAyesha Jalal is among the most prominent American academics who writes on the history of South Asia. In her book, \"The Sole Spokesman\" (Cambridge University Press, 1985 and 1994), Jalal gives her perspective of what happened in the years between the 1937 elections in British India and the Partition of the Indian subcontinent, identifying the factors which led to the creation of Pakistan and provides new insights into the nature of the British transfer of power in India. In particular, she focuses on the role of Mohammad Ali Jinnah, the leader of All-India Muslim League, and the main proponent of the Two Nation Theory on which the demand for Pakistan was based. Jinnah claimed to be the sole spokesman of all the Indian Muslims, not only in provinces where they were in a majority but also in the provinces where they were in a minority. Yet given the political geography of the subcontinent, it was clear that there would always be as many Muslims outside a specifically Muslim state as inside it. This book investigates how Jinnah proposed to resolve the contradiction between assertions of a \"separate Muslim nation\" and the need for a strategy which could safeguard the interests of all Indian Muslims. It does so by identifying Jinnah's real political aims, the reasons why he was reluctant to bring them into the open, and his success or failure in achieving them.\n\nA leading historian of Pakistan as well as South Asia, Ayesha Jalal has received numerous awards and acknowledgements: \n\n\nA major newspaper of India calls her, \"...one of Pakistan's most acclaimed historians...\"\n\nAnother major newspaper of Pakistan states, \"...Jalal is revered globally as a historian of meticulous methods.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2248057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248057", "title": "Chris Cwej", "text": "Chris Cwej\n\nChristopher Rodonanté Cwej, usually just known as Chris Cwej, is a fictional character from the Virgin New Adventures range of spin-offs based on the BBC science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\". His surname is properly pronounced \"Shvay\", but he pronounces it \"Kwedge\" rather than keep correcting people.\n\nHis first appearance was in the novel \"Original Sin\" by Andy Lane, with his adjudicator partner Roz Forrester. Adjudicators are the police force of 30th century Earth, which was at that time divided into the Overcity and the Undercity. Chris was born in 2954 to a family who lived in the lower levels of the Overcity. Chris's father, Volsted Kornbluth Cwej, was also an adjudicator. Chris's father was fairly old when Chris was born, having retired from the Adjudicators the previous year, 2953, after 48 years of service, and he is well over 70 years old when the young Chris meets the Doctor.\n\nChris's grandfather died when Chris was only five, and Chris cried when he saw his grandfather being put into a coffin. A more distant ancestor, possibly a great grandfather was Nathaniel Cwej. Even further back, there was a Cwej involved with the founding of the Adjudicators, and the family have had a long association with the Adjudicators ever since. Chris's accent sounds American, although his home would once have been considered a part of England, and his surname may have a Germanic/Saxon derivation.\n\nChris is tall, blonde and muscular, and when he first met the Seventh Doctor and Bernice, he had had a \"body bepple\" (bodily alteration) which made him look like a teddy bear.\n\nHe and Roz were investigating a murder case in Undercity in the year 2975 when they encountered the Doctor and Bernice. They helped the Doctor defeat his old enemy Tobias Vaughn, who had been manipulating human advancement since the 20th century. Having realise the extent of corruption in the Earth Empire and the Adjudicators, Chris and Roz chose to leave in the TARDIS.\n\nChris and Roz travelled with the Doctor for many adventures. In this eventful period, Chris fathered two daughters: Jasmine Surprise Cwej-Hutchings with Ishtar Hutchings, and iKrissi with Dep of the People. After Roz's death in battle, Chris continued to travel with the Doctor for a short time, but the event had a profound effect on him. During the events of \"Eternity Weeps\", the Doctor's former companion Liz Shaw contracted a deadly virus and begged Chris to kill her, however he was unable to do it. This and the subsequent death of millions of people from the virus caused Chris to question himself and first consider quitting the TARDIS. It took the apparent death of the Doctor in Japan to make him put aside his doubts and help protect the people of the local village from the local warlord, who wanted an alien device in their possession. The Doctor and Chris then travelled to the Doctor's home planet of Gallifrey, where the Doctor faced members of his House and many dark secrets were revealed. After this, Chris decided to travel alone using a time ring given to him by Romana.\n\nThe book which depicts Chris's sexual encounter with a gay man, \"Damaged Goods\", was written by future executive producer of the series Russell T Davies, whose works often include gay themes. Much like Davies' later introduction to the series proper, Jack Harkness, Cwej opines that sexuality is not an issue where he comes from.\n\nChris Cwej subsequently appeared in novels in the Bernice Summerfield range of New Adventures, beginning with Gary Russell's \"Deadfall\", and then in several other appearances. \"Deadfall\" portrayed Cwej as having had his memories (including his adventures with the Doctor) erased by a group known as the Knights of Jeneve. \"Dead Romance\" by Lawrence Miles revealed that Cwej's memories had also been altered by the Time Lords (who were not named as such, but were clearly identified by history and characteristics). They had told him that he had been abducted from 30th century Earth by an \"evil renegade\", an oblique reference to the Doctor.\n\nChris continued to work as an agent for the Time Lords: in \"Dead Romance\", he opened a gateway for the Time Lords to invade and destroy a bottle universe version of 1970 Earth. Back in his native universe, in \"Tears of the Oracle\" Chris came close to death, and only survived when the Time Lords regenerated him. His new body, to his shock, was short and fat. However, after an encounter with the Ferutu in \"Twilight of the Gods\", he was reverted down his personal time line to age 13 and regained his original body.\n\nChris next appeared in \"The Book of the War\", an encyclopedia detailing the \"War in Heaven\" in the \"Faction Paradox\" spin-off stories. The \"Faction Paradox\" line was based on ideas created for BBC Books' line of \"Doctor Who\" novels, and contained many ideas and characters which had their roots in \"Doctor Who\" novels or television. However, many of these concepts were changed for legal and creative reasons — for example, the Time Lords became the \"Great Houses\".\n\n\"The Book of the War\" revealed that not only had the Great Houses deliberately altered Cwej's timeline and biodata, they were using alternate copies of him from different timelines as soldiers in their war with the mysterious \"Enemy\". These \"Cwejen\" existed in three types: the original (blond and handsome) \"Cwej-Prime\", the fat and balding Cwej-Plus, and the monstrous and heavily armored Cwej-Magnus. Each type existed in multiple iterations, which the Great Houses intended to use as an \"Army of One.\" One of the Cwejen (implied to be the original) was present at a mysterious incident in the Hollywood Bowl, which may have been a point of contact with the Enemy.\n\nChris does not appear by name in the subsequent \"Faction Paradox\" novels, but a character who strongly matches his description appears as an agent of the Great Houses in Lance Parkin's \"Warlords of Utopia\". This individual calls himself \"Herr Abschrift\", German for \"Mr. Copy\", suggesting that he is one of the Cwejen, a suggestion that is strongly supported by the facts he is described as being a \"perfect Aryan\" (blond, blue eyed and physically fit), mentions working for something called \"Mirraflex\" (one of the Great Houses) and is fighting a Great War.\n\nTwo of the Cwejen appear as slaves of a Timelord in the Bernice Summerfield audio, \"The Adventure of the Diogenes Damsel\". They had no knowledge of the original Chris Cwej, and vague knowledge of the Seventh Doctor as a mystical figure.\n\nAn anthology titled is set for release in 2020 published by Arcbeatle Press and featuring stories by Andy Lane and Simon Bucher-Jones among others. It will also feature appearances by Iris Wildthyme.\n\n"}
{"id": "2248068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248068", "title": "Choucroute garnie", "text": "Choucroute garnie\n\nChoucroute garnie (French for \"dressed sauerkraut\") is an Alsatian recipe for preparing sauerkraut with sausages and other salted meats and charcuterie, and often potatoes.\n\nAlthough sauerkraut/cabbage is a traditionally German and Eastern European dish, when Alsace and Lorraine became part of France following the Westphalia peace treaties in 1648, it brought this dish to the attention of French chefs and it has since been widely adopted in France.\n\nIn principle, there is no fixed recipe for this dish – any preparation of hot sauerkraut with meat and potatoes could qualify – but in practice there are certain traditions, favourite recipes, and stereotypical garnishes that are more easily called \"choucroute garnie\" than others. Traditional recipes call for three types of sausage: Morteau sausage or Montbéliard sausage, Strasbourg sausage and Frankfurt sausage. Fatty, inexpensive or salted cuts of pork also often form a part of \"choucroute garnie\", including ham hocks, pork knuckles and shoulders, back bacon and slices of salt pork. Other recipes call for pieces of fish or goose meat, but this is far less typical. \n\nThe cabbage itself is usually heated with a glass of Riesling or other dry white wines or stock, and goose or pork fat. In some recipes, it may also be cooked with chopped onion and sliced apples. Food writer Jeffrey Steingarten attempted to catalogue the composition of an authentic recipe in 1989. He writes that every traditional recipe includes black peppercorns, cloves, garlic, juniper berries, onions, and potatoes; most include bay leaves and wine.\n\nLike \"cassoulet\", \"pot-au-feu\", and many other examples of France's regional cuisine, its origin is in a traditional, inexpensive dish, but grand versions (such as \"Choucroute royale\", made with Champagne instead of Riesling), and grand ingredients (such as \"foie gras\" and wild game) are mentioned both in traditional sources (e.g. Ali-Bab) and in recipes from contemporary chefs and restaurants.\n\n\"Choucroute garnie\" is available throughout France in canned or microwavable ready-to-eat form. A Hungarian version includes stuffed cabbage leaves in addition to the other ingredients. Shredded cabbage can also be added along with the sauerkraut to produce a somewhat less acidic version.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2248069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248069", "title": "Willie Williams (set designer)", "text": "Willie Williams (set designer)\n\nWilliam Peter Charles \"Willie\" Williams (born 1959) is a show director, stage and lighting designer, video and set designer for concerts, theatre, and multimedia projects. He is best known for his groundbreaking work with the rock band U2, and is recognised as one of the leading artists in this field.\n\nHe was born in 1959 in Newcastle-upon-Tyne and raised in Sheffield, England, son of Robert Woodman Williams, a singer & medical practitioner who was an early pioneer in the then fledgling field of physiotherapy and who also sang with South Yorkshire Opera. Williams excelled at mathematics and science in school and planned to study physics at University College, London. The advent of punk rock caused him to enter the music scene instead, and he began doing lights for various bands such as Writz, Deaf School and Stiff Little Fingers.\n\nWillie Williams has been responsible for the design of U2's tours from 1982 onward, most famously the extravagant, bewildering Zoo TV Tour (1992–93), and most recently the Innocence + Experience Tour (2015), the Joshua Tree Tours 2017 and 2019, and the Experience + Innocence Tour (2018). He has also worked with musical artists such as R.E.M., David Bowie, The Rolling Stones, Robbie Williams, Darren Hayes and George Michael.\n\nWilliams has designed for the Montreal-based dance company La La La Human Steps. Other collaborations have been with Laurie Anderson, Marianne Faithfull and the Kronos Quartet, most notably on \"Sun Rings\", a joint effort with NASA that combines the string quartet's music with video and audio material collected by the Voyager 1 and Voyager 2 spacecraft.\n\nIn 2015, Williams designed the giant kinetic chandelier installed at Omnia nightclub at Caesars Palace in Las Vegas. He has exhibited his own kinetic light sculptures in several art galleries. The sculptures, entitled \"Lumia Domestica\", create kaleidoscopic projections in the tradition of Nicolas Schoffer and Thomas Wilfred by refracting light through household glassware. Other public works include the creation of lighting installations at London's Southbank Centre and within Canterbury Cathedral; \"SkyChurch\", a multimedia performance space at the Experience Music Project in Seattle, Washington, and a permanent exhibit at Cleveland's Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Museum.\n\nTheatre shows Williams has worked on include \"We Will Rock You\", \"Little Britain Live\", \"French and Saunders Still Alive\", \"Steve Coogan is Alan Partridge and Other Less Successful Characters\", \"The Fast Show Live\", \"Barbarella\" and \"Pam Ann\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2248073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248073", "title": "Rogers Cadenhead", "text": "Rogers Cadenhead\n\nRogers Cadenhead (born April 13, 1967) is a computer book author and web publisher who served from 2006 to 2008 as chairman of the RSS Advisory Board, a group that publishes the RSS 2.0 specification. He graduated from Lloyd V. Berkner High School in Richardson, Texas in 1985 and the University of North Texas in 1991.\n\nCadenhead is the author of several editions of the \"Java in 21 Days\" and \"Java in 24 Hours\" series from SAMS Publishing and has written other books on Radio UserLand, Microsoft FrontPage and the Internet. From 1982 to 1986, Cadenhead operated the Parallax BBS in Dallas, Texas, which was possibly the first BBS to offer BBS door games.\n\nHe published the Internet humor site Cruel.com and is the copublisher of the community weblog SportsFilter. He has also been a contributor to Suck.com and previously authored a syndicated question-and-answer column for the Fort Worth Star-Telegram called \"Ask Ed Brice.\"\n\nWhen news aggregator Matt Drudge failed to register drudge.com for his news website Drudge Report, Cadenhead registered drudge.com in 1998 and started the Drudge Retort as a liberal alternative to what he perceived to be the right-leaning Drudge Report, and as \"a send-up of Mr. Drudge's breathless style\". Cadenhead edits the site with television writer Jonathan Bourne. Both conservative and liberal bloggers utilize the open forum format, encouraged by Cadenhead. The headline selections for discussion are the liberal alternative to the \"Drudge Report\".\n\nSome readers may be confused between the two websites because the typography and page layouts are almost identical, and this is no coincidence since the site was deliberately designed to be like Drudge's website, using \"the same style of type, the same rows of links to other journalists and columnists, the same screaming, sensational headlines trumpeting world exclusives\". Cadenhead uses a yellow background, which implies that Drudge is a yellow journalist.\n\nEven Matt Drudge visits the Drudge Retort, saying \"I go there when I can't get into my own Web site because mine's so popular\" in a 1999 interview with the \"New York Times\".\n\nIn 2005, Cadenhead achieved brief notoriety for registering the domain name benedictxvi.com several weeks before the name was chosen by Pope Benedict XVI, joking that he would give it to the Vatican in exchange for a mitre and \"complete absolution, no questions asked, for the third week of March 1987.\" Those demands not being met, he donated the domain to the Internet charity Modest Needs.\n\nIn December 2005, Cadenhead again achieved blog and media coverage by highlighting that Wikipedia co-founder Jimmy Wales had edited his own Wikipedia article repeatedly, which Wales admitted was \"in poor taste.\"\n\nIn June 2008, the Associated Press filed seven DMCA takedown requests against Cadenhead for stories published by users on the \"Drudge Retort\" reproducing from 39 to 79 words of AP articles. The action sparked a backlash among bloggers towards the news organization and a debate about what constitutes fair use when bloggers link and excerpt articles. \"If The A.P. has concerns that go all the way down to one or two sentences of quoting, they need to tell people what they think is legal and where the boundaries are,\" Cadenhead told the \"New York Times\". The affair led AP to change its policy and install new technologies to protect its work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2248075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248075", "title": "Northwest Christian Schools International", "text": "Northwest Christian Schools International\n\nNorthwest Christian Schools International (NWCSI) is a community of Christian Schools in the Northwest Region of Christian Schools International (CSI) in the northwest region of North America. NWCSI provides leadership and resources to enable its member schools to better serve their students and nurture them in Christian teachings.\n\nNWCSI is dedicated to serving the schools and the students of member schools in the promotion and development of education that acknowledges Christian teaching in life and education.\n\n"}
{"id": "2248081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248081", "title": "USS Gilliam (APA-57)", "text": "USS Gilliam (APA-57)\n\nUSS \"Gilliam\" (APA-57), named for Gilliam County in Oregon, was the lead ship in her class of attack transports serving in the United States Navy during World War II.\n\nShe was launched 28 March 1944 under a Maritime Commission contract by the Consolidated Steel Corporation, Wilmington, California; sponsored by Mrs. A. O. Williams of Wilmington; acquired 31 July 1944; and commissioned 1 August 1944, Comdr. H. B. Olsen in command.\n\nThe first of a new type of attack transport, \"Gilliam\" stood out of San Francisco Bay 16 October 1944 with 750 United States Army troops for Oro Bay, New Guinea, and delivered them to that port 4 November. Embarking nearly 1000 troops of the U.S. 11th Airborne Division, she sailed a week later and off-loaded her passengers at Leyte, subsequently returning to Humboldt Bay, New Guinea, 22 November. \"Gilliam\" got underway again 29 November under orders to steam to Leyte Gulf and embark elements of the 6th Army Headquarters for passage to Lingayen Gulf.\n\n\"Gilliam\" was part of a 36-ship convoy churning toward the Philippines when, on 5 December 1944, the convoy came under heavy air attack while from Leyte Gulf. At 12:18 \"Gilliam\" spotted a plane coming in low on the water at deck level, headed for the middle of the convoy. Coming under limited fire, the Japanese plane released a torpedo two minutes later which smashed into . Just after 12:30 two more planes came in low and fast, and one got another torpedo into the stricken merchantman, which was then dead in the water.\n\nIntense fire from the convoy drove the planes off, but later that afternoon another Japanese aircraft dove in at 15:30, and after running into heavy fire, made a suicide crash on SS \"Marcus Daly\". The Japanese caught her on the bow at waterline and started fires and explosions. A second kamikaze tried his luck but missed and crashed into the sea after repeated hits from the convoy's gunners.\n\n\"Anton Saugraine\" and \"Marcus Daly\" were kept afloat by quick damage control, but the former ship was attacked again the next day while under tow and finally sunk. During this engagement, \"Gilliam\"'s unflinching crew stood at General Quarters for nearly 12 hours and the ship reached Leyte 6 December without damage.\n\nAt Leyte \"Gilliam\" acted as receiving ship for the crews of damaged warships and undertook medical and salvage operations in spite of continued air alerts. After embarking over 500 soldiers at Tacloban, she sailed from that port 7 January 1945 bringing troops to Lingayen Gulf in support of the invasion. She returned to Leyte on 14 January to embark elements of the 32nd Infantry Division and brought them safely back to Lingayen Gulf 27 January.\n\nAfter loading casualties for passage to Leyte, \"Gilliam\" sailed from that port 2 February to embark Marines of the III Amphibious Corps at Guadalcanal and conducted training exercises in preparation for the coming invasion of Okinawa.\n\n\"Gilliam\" closed Okinawa on 1 April and in the face of kamikaze attacks debarked reconnaissance parties of the 3d Amphibious Corps and unloaded vital cargo. On 5 April she sailed for the United States via Saipan and Pearl Harbor, mooring at San Francisco 27 April for drydock repairs.\n\nSubsequently \"Gilliam\" embarked men of the 6th Seabee Battalion a Port Hueneme, California, and sailed 28 May 1945 for Okinawa via Eniwetok and Ulithi. She off-loaded cargo and passengers at Okinawa and then headed back to San Francisco.\n\n\"Gilliam\" arrived back at San Francisco on 10 August, where nearly 1,000 troops were embarked and brought to Pearl Harbor on 27 August. Men of the Headquarters and Service Battalions, 5th Amphibious Corps came on board at Hawaii, and \"Gilliam\" sailed 1 September for Sasebo, Japan, and put her occupation troops ashore 3 weeks later.\n\nOn 25 September 1945 she got underway for Manila, and after embarking more than 450 veterans of the 33rd Infantry Division at Lingayen Gulf, she carried them to Sasebo, arriving 15 October.\n\nAfter returning to Cebu in the Philippines 29 October, she became part of the Operation Magic Carpet fleet and sailed 2 November with 1,000 sailors and soldiers, debarking them at Portland, Oregon, 21 November 1945.\n\nFollowing a voyage to Samar, \"Gilliam\" moored at Pearl Harbor on 16 February 1946 and prepared to participate in the atomic bomb tests at Bikini atoll in the summer of 1946. On the morning of 1 July 1946, \"Gilliam\", a target ship for Test Able, was the first ship struck by the blast and sunk in Bikini lagoon. She was decommissioned, 5 July 1946 and struck from the Naval Register, 20 July 1946\n\n\"Gilliam\" received three battle stars for World War II service and two Navy Occupation Service Medals for her actions during the occupation of Japan.\n\n"}
{"id": "2248104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248104", "title": "Vistalite Drums", "text": "Vistalite Drums\n\nVistalite drums were a line of acrylic drums produced by the Ludwig Drum company, introduced in 1972. The name Vistalite refers to the translucent plastic that the shells were made out of. Vistalite and acrylic offered a synthetic alternative to wood shells and were popularized by rock drummer John Bonham of Led Zeppelin.\n\nThe original Vistalites are a collectors item.\n\nBill Zickos was the father of the acrylic drums; he built the first experimental set in 1959 and received a US Patent (patent #3,626,458) for them in 1970.\n\nWhen marketing of Vistalites started in late 1972, the drums were available in clear, blue, green, red, amber, and yellow, with clear and blue being the largest sellers. In 1976 the company broadened the line to include \"Rainbow\" Vistalites with multicolored shells, with \"Tequila Sunrise\" (a combination of red, orange and yellow stripes) being one of the most popular combinations. Multi-colored acrylic shells were co-invented by Elvis Presley's drummer Ronn Tutt. Tutt, however, tried his invention and was unimpressed, enough that he immediately went back to playing maple drums. Other Vistalite variations included bass drums without tom mounts (often referred to as \"virgin\" bass drums) and concert toms (toms without lug holes or a rim on the bottom of the shell). Since Ludwig technically offered any drum it manufactured (other than tympani) in Vistalite, rare examples such as congas and bongos have become valuable collectibles.\n\nThe green and red colors were eventually dropped due to slow sales. Translucent Smoke (a dark grey color), solid black, and solid white were added late during the Vistalite production run. A 1977 mis-order left Ludwig with a large surplus supply of the white shells, a problem the company resolved by covering many in chrome wrap, selling them as \"faux stainless steel\" drums. Singer/drummer Karen Carpenter was fond of vistalites and can be seen playing them on her '70s TV shows. Keith Moon of the Who, Nick Mason of Pink Floyd, Ron Bushy of Iron Butterfly, Barriemore Barlow of Jethro Tull, John Bonham of Led Zeppelin, Jay Osmond of The Osmonds, Billy Cobham, Danny Roberts of River City, and Scott Schafer of Znowhite played acrylic sets in the '70s.\n\nIn 1978, Ludwig created the Tivoli Vistalite by inserting small light bulbs into the shells. The kits were plagued by electrical problems - Bill Ludwig II is reported to have said that everything they made on Vistalite was lost on Tivoli. There were also problems with the shells cracking under the pressure of overtightened lugs and exposure to freezing temperatures. The original Vistalite line was phased out due to declining sale and the rising cost of oil-based plastics.\n\nLudwig reintroduced Vistalite drums in 2001, with the prime seller being a replica of the amber five piece kit played by John Bonham. The re-issue shells are slightly thicker and in the opinions of some warmer sounding and more resonant than the originals. The original shells were at a supposed disadvantange due to a noncontinuous bearing edge. The new versions have a continuous 45 degree edge, making what some feel is a fuller, cleaner tone.\n\nIn 2006, a multitude of drum companies like SONOR (X-Ray), Tama (Starclassic Mirage), RCI International (Starlite), Fibes (Crystallite), ddrum (Diode and Diaton), Zickos, Peace (Echoplasm), and Kirchhoff Schlagwerk (Arctic series) now make acrylic drums thanks to an increase in popularity since 2001. Custom drum companies have also seen growth in demand.\n\nGold n Times acrylic shells are thicker and stronger than '70s vistalites, but are glued and tabbed in the same manner. They are supplied to Ludwig, Tama, and custom drum makers. They are approximately .220 (6mm) thick. Acrylic shells can be glued with adhesives like cyanoacrylates. Modern adhesives are improved over those available in the 1970s. On November 20, 2009, Ray Ducoat, the company’s owner, died. Gold n Times ceased sales although production continued through other outlets.\n\nRCI Starlight acrylic shells are \"welded\" at the seam. The company claims that vibration characteristics of their shells are tested and are superior to glued and tabbed shells. Like the Vistalite, they are factory-equipped with a 45-degree bearing edge. Many of the designs are made to replicate original Vistalite colors and patterns. \n\nQuality acrylic shells are also sold to drum parts and custom resellers under the brand \"Aquabomb\" acrylic shells. This brand name is owed and offered exclusively by Drum Supply House USA .\n\nAcrylic shells are welded by applying solvents like di/trichloretheleye to the ends of the acrylic sheet. The sheet is partially dissolved, and when the ends are placed together, the resultant bond is as strong, or stronger than the shell itself. Additionally, the seam is very thin.\n\nGas custom drums of Australia uses sheets of Mitsubishi shinkolite, a high-quality acrylic used in the automotive industry and optics.\n\nAs in the 1970s, changes in oil prices impact the price of acrylics and hence the cost of drum shells made from them. As cited above, Ludwig references the oil shock of the late 1970s (and the impact it had on material costs and subsequent product pricing) as one of the main reasons original Vistalite production ended in 1979.\n\nRockers and jazzmen alike enjoy the wide tuning range of acrylic drums, and the dry, but punchy and projecting sound. A criticism of Vistalite and acrylic shells in general is that some feel they sound brittle, artificial, and lack the complexity of their wood counterparts. It may be worth noting that some producers have been quoted as asking for Vistas as they are extremely forgiving in humidity variable environments, and seem to offer more consistent notes, session over session. \n\nVistalites are substantively louder than traditional drums with fewer overtones. With modern amplification and recording techniques, acrylic can be made to sound very close to wood. In a 2007 issue of Modern Drummer magazine (www.moderndrummer.com), one reviewer stated of the Tama mirage acrylic drum kit \"When I close my eyes, I find it hard to believe it's not a wood kit.\" \n\nMany professional drummers used Vistalites or similar acrylic drums in the '70s and '80s. Jazzmen like Billy Cobham, Lionel Hampton, and Bill Zickos were well known acrylic kit players in the 1970s.\n\nIn the electronic music scene, a clear Ludwig Vistalite kit is featured in the award-winning Daft Punk music video Robot Rock. \n\nRecently, drummer Mike Portnoy of the progressive metal group \"Dream Theater\" used a Tama drum company-built acrylic kit for a John Bonham tribute, and for parts of Dream Theater's 2005 \"Octavarium\" CD and DVD. As of Summer, 2007 Portnoy now plays a Tama Mirage dubbed \"the mirage monster\" to support his 2007 tour. This underscores the resurgent popularity of these shells, and brings them into the public eye. Dominic Howard, drummer for the band Muse, previously used Tama Mirage drums for live performances and studio recordings (After his contract with Tama ended in 2009, he switched to DW). Drum tech Jeff Ocheltree included a segment on tuning the new Vistalite drums in his DVD \"Trust Your Ears.\" He describes them as having a very \"live\" sound. Originally, drummers favored single-ply drum heads with a center dot for these drums. But as Jeff Ocheltree describes, the sound improves with the use of two ply drum heads.\n\nAustrian drummer/clinician Thomas Lang has toured with Sonor's new designer x-ray acrylics to rave reviews for his playing, and for the sound of these drums. In 2010, Thomas Lang stopped endorsing sonor and moved on to DW drums.\n\nChanging the overall attitude of drummers concerning the sound of acrylic drums has been a focus of the review media. In 2007 articles and reviews, the magazines gave unabashed praise for the look and sound of modern acrylic drums. Superlatives like \"fat\" and \"warm\" were liberally applied. These terms are normally given to wood-shelled drums to indicate that they have abundant low and midrange frequencies. With the right combination of drumheads and tuning, acrylics don't have to sound brittle or artificial. European e-zine www.drummersdigest.com posted a very positive review of a Kirchoff Arctic series solid-cast acrylic kit, to include audio recordings that prove acrylics can sound as musical as other drum shell materials.\n\nUltimately, the difference in tone between acrylic shells, such as the Vistalite shells, and traditional wood and metal shells can be subtle, yet still present. While some acrylic shells have been criticized for their dry, dull tone, others have been raved about for years, such as the shells used by John Bonham. Many drummers, and musicians/recording engineers in general, have a preferred drum sound that they strive to attain when playing and recording, and while some wooden drums have seemed to dominate this recording field throughout recent decades, acrylic shells have still played a keystone role in numerous sought after recordings.\n"}
{"id": "2248123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248123", "title": "Piano Concerto No. 2 (Beethoven)", "text": "Piano Concerto No. 2 (Beethoven)\n\nThe Piano Concerto No. 2 in B-flat major, Op. 19, by Ludwig van Beethoven was composed primarily between 1787 and 1789, although it did not attain the form in which it was published until 1795. Beethoven did write a second finale for it in 1798 for performance in Prague, but that is not the finale that was published. It was used by the composer as a vehicle for his own performances as a young virtuoso, initially intended with the Bonn Hofkapelle. It was published in 1801 following Beethoven's Piano Concerto No. 1 in C major, which actually had been composed well after this piece in 1796 and 1797.\n\nThe B-flat major Piano Concerto became an important display piece for the young Beethoven as he sought to establish himself after moving from Bonn to Vienna. He was the soloist at its premiere on 29 March 1795, at Vienna's Burgtheater in a concert marking his public debut. Prior to that, he had performed only in the private salons of the Viennese nobility. While the work as a whole is very much in the concerto style of Mozart, there is a sense of drama and contrast that would be present in many of Beethoven's later works. Beethoven himself apparently did not rate this work particularly highly, remarking to the publisher Franz Anton Hoffmeister that, along with the Piano Concerto No. 1, it was \"not one of my best.\" The version that he premiered in 1795 is the version that is performed and recorded today.\n\nThe work is scored for solo piano, flute, two oboes, two bassoons, two horns and strings; it is the only one of Beethoven's completed piano concertos that omits clarinets. The concerto is in three movements:\n\n\nThe first movement begins with a triumphant orchestral opening on the tonic chord, and maintains a playfulness while using chromatic passages to show off the soloist's technique. The second movement is characteristically serene and peaceful, while the closing Rondo brings back the youth-filled playfulness heard in the opening movement.\n\nThis movement is in the concerto variant of sonata form (double-exposition sonata form). The orchestra introduces the main theme and the subordinate theme in its exposition. The second exposition is in F major. The development wanders in key and ends on a long B-flat major scale. The recapitulation is similar to the exposition and is in B-flat major. \n\nThere is a rather difficult cadenza composed by Beethoven himself, albeit much later than the concerto itself. Stylistically, the cadenza is very different from the concerto, but it makes use of the first opening theme. Beethoven applies this melody to the cadenza in several different ways, changing its character each time and displaying the innumerable ways that a musical theme can be used and felt.\n\nThis movement was written between 1787 and 1789 in Bonn. Average performances last from thirteen to fourteen minutes.\n\nThis movement is in E-flat major, the subdominant key. Like many slow movements, it has ABA (ternary) form, where the opening section introduces the themes, and the middle section develops them. This movement was written between 1787 and 1789 in Bonn. Average performances last from eight to nine minutes.\n\nThis movement takes the form of a Rondo (ABACABA). Beethoven's playfulness of his early period can be heard here. There is a constant angular feel within the 6/8 melody itself that Beethoven plays on with each return of the rondo theme. The C section is also highly contrasting with the others, being that it is in a minor key and more forceful and stern in meaning. Also, prior to the last appearance of the rondo theme, Beethoven brings the piano in in the \"wrong\" key of G major, before the orchestra \"discovers\" the discrepancy and returns to the correct tonic key. This musical joke can be seen in many of Beethoven's subsequent compositions.\n\nThis rondo is the one that Beethoven wrote in 1795 and premiered in Vienna that year. It does show Haydn's influence. Average performances last from five to six minutes.\n"}
{"id": "2248125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248125", "title": "Solus Christus", "text": "Solus Christus\n\nIn Christo solo (Latin in + ablative, sōlō Christō, meaning \"in Christ alone\") is one of the five solae that summarize the Protestant Reformers' basic belief that salvation is by faith \"in Christ alone;\" that is, through the atoning work of Christ alone, apart from individual works, and that Christ is the only mediator between God and man. It holds that salvation cannot be obtained without Christ.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2248143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248143", "title": "Like a Virgin (song)", "text": "Like a Virgin (song)\n\n\"Like a Virgin\" is a song recorded by American singer Madonna for her second studio album \"Like a Virgin\" (1984). It was released on October 31, 1984, by Sire Records as the album's lead single. The song was written by Tom Kelly and Billy Steinberg, and produced by Nile Rodgers; Steinberg said that the song was inspired by his personal experiences of romance. \"Like a Virgin\" was chosen for Madonna by Michael Ostin of Warner Bros. Records after listening to a demo sung by Kelly. Rodgers initially felt that the song did not have a sufficient hook, but subsequently changed his opinion after the song was stuck in his head.\n\nMusically, \"Like a Virgin\" is a dance-oriented song, composed of two hooks. Madonna's voice is heard in a high register while a continuous arrangement of synths are heard along the bassline. The song's lyrics are ambiguous, consisting of hidden innuendos and open to various interpretations. \"Like a Virgin\" received positive reviews from music critics, who frequently called it as one of the defining songs for Madonna. It became her first number-one single on the record charts in Australia, Canada, Europe, Japan, and the United States, while reaching the top ten elsewhere.\n\nThe song's music video portrayed Madonna sailing down the canals of Venice in a gondola, as well as roaming around a palace wearing a white wedding dress. With the video, scholars noted Madonna's portrayal of a sexually independent and strong woman, similarity of a man wearing a lion's mask to that of Saint Mark and the link between the eroticism in the video and the vitality of Venice. Madonna has performed the song in seven of her concert tours. Most of the time, her performances of \"Like a Virgin\" were associated with strong reaction and uproar from the media.\n\n\"Like a Virgin\" has been covered by a number of artists and has appeared in or been referenced in feature films such as \"Reservoir Dogs\", \"Moulin Rouge!\" and \"\". On the other hand, Madonna's public persona of an indomitable, sexually unashamed, supremely confident woman was widely accepted by the younger generation who emulated her style and fashion. Scholars have credited \"Like a Virgin\" as the song which cemented her position as a pop culture icon.\n\n\"Like a Virgin\" was written by Billy Steinberg and Tom Kelly. The idea for the song originated when Steinberg was living at his father's vineyards in the Coachella Valley, and driving a red pickup truck one day. In an interview with the \"Los Angeles Times\", Steinberg explained that the song was not written for Madonna or any female singer but was inspired by his personal experiences. At that time Steinberg had just come out of an emotionally challenging relationship, and he had met someone new. That inspired the lyrics for \"Like a Virgin\" about how he coped with the difficult situation. When he took the song to Kelly, they decided that it would be a sensitive ballad, however they could not decide how the word \"virgin\" would fit in it. Steinberg elaborated: \"I wasn't just trying to get that racy word \"virgin\" in a lyric. I was saying ... that I may not really be a virgin—I've been battered romantically and emotionally like many people—but I'm starting a new relationship and it just feels so good, it's healing all the wounds and making me feel like I've never done this before, because it's so much deeper and more profound than anything I've ever felt.\"\n\nKelly recorded the demo, and invited Michael Ostin of Warner Bros. Records' A&R department to his house to listen to it. Steinberg and Kelly played four or five tunes for Ostin, and further discussed \"Like a Virgin\"they were not sure for which artist the song would be suitable. Due to meet with Madonna the next day to discuss her second album, Ostin intended on playing the demo to her, believing the lyrics and the groove of the song were perfect for Madonna. \"When I played it for Madonna she went crazy, and knew instantly it was a song for her and that she could make a great record out of it,\" Ostin recalled. In 2009, \"Rolling Stone\" interviewer Austin Scaggs asked Madonna what her first impressions were after listening to the demos of \"Like a Virgin\" and \"Material Girl\". Madonna replied:\nI liked them both because they were ironic and provocative at the same time but also unlike me. I am not a materialistic person, and I certainly wasn't a virgin, and, by the way, how can you be \"like a virgin\"? I liked the play on words; I thought they were clever. They're so geeky, they're cool. I never realized they would become my signature songs, especially the second one.\n\nIn mid-1984, Madonna met producer Nile Rodgers at the Power Station studios (now Avatar Studios) in New York. Rodgers initially did not want Madonna to record \"Like a Virgin\", as he felt that the lyric 'like a virgin' was not a terrific hook; according to him it was not an all-time catch phrase. Rodgers dismissed the song after hearing the demo, which he thought sounded \"really stupid and retarded\". Later, Rodgers had second thoughts: \"It's weird because I couldn't get it out of my head after I played it, even though I didn't really like it. It sounded really bubble-gummy to me, but it grew on me. I really started to like it. [...] But, my first reaction to it was, 'This is really queer.'\" Rodgers credits Madonna with recognizing the song's potential. He later said: \"I handed my apology to Madonna and said, 'you know... if it's so catchy that it stayed in my head for four days, it must be something. So let's do it.'\" Hence the song was finally recorded. Steinberg reflected on the recording process and commented that:\n\nWhen Madonna recorded it, even as our demo faded out, on the fade you could hear Tom saying, \"When your heart beats, and you hold me, and you love me...\" That was the last thing you heard as our demo faded. Madonna must have listened to it very, very carefully because her record ends with the exact same little ad-libs that our demo did. That rarely happens that someone studies your demo so carefully that they use all that stuff. We were sort of flattered how carefully she followed our demo on that.<br>\n\nJason Corsaro, the record's audio engineer, persuaded Rodgers to use digital recording, a new technique at the time which Corsaro believed was going to be the future of recording because test pressings always sounded consistent. To ensure this, Corsaro used a Sony 3324 24-track digital tape recorder and a Sony F1 two-track for the stereo mix. Madonna recorded the lead parts in a small, wooden, high-ceilinged piano room at the back of Studio C, also known as Power Station's \"R&B room\". Corsaro then placed gobos around her while using the top capsule of a stereo AKG C24 tube microphone, with a Schoeps microphone preamplifier and a Pultec equalizer. Once the track met with everybody's approval, Robert Sabino added the keyboard parts, playing mostly a Sequential Circuits Prophet-5, as well as some Rhodes piano and acoustic piano, while Rodgers also played a Synclavier. Madonna, although not required, was present every minute of the recording sessions and the mixing process, Corsaro commented: \"Nile was there most of the time, but she was there all of the time. She never left\".\n\nComposed as a dance-oriented song, the intro of \"Like a Virgin\" consists of two hooks. According to the sheet music published at Musicnotes.com by Alfred Publishing, the song is set in common time, with a moderately dance-groove tempo of 118 beats per minute. It is composed in the key of F major with Madonna's voice ranging from the tonal nodes of low-tone G to high-tone C. According to Rikky Rooksby, the bassline on the intro is a re-working of the three-note bass motif present in the Four Tops' 1965 song \"I Can't Help Myself (Sugar Pie Honey Bunch)\", where Chuck Berry provided the chord arrangement. The bassline also has some similarity with Michael Jackson's \"Billie Jean\" especially during the second verse. Madonna sings the song in her high register while drum arrangement by Tony Thompson is heard alongside the bassline, which is also supported by a synthesizer arrangement, giving it a circular progression through all the seven diatonic chords of I–IV–vii–iii–vi–ii–V–I.\n\nRegarding the lyrics, Madonna had commented: \"I like innuendo, I like irony, I like the way things can be taken on different levels.\" This statement highlighted the ambiguity of the lyrics of the song, which is hung on the word 'like'. Rooksby interpreted the meaning of the song in different ways to different people. He said that for girls who are really virgins, the song encouraged them to hold their compose before they engage in their very first sexual moment/act. For sexually experienced girls, the song meant that they would be able to re-live the feelings of their first sexual encounter all over again. For boys, the song presented a narcissistic image of them making the girl/boy forget her/his past encounters and enjoy their sexual moment/act as if for the very first time.\n\n\"Like a Virgin\" is one of Madonna's most famous singles, and was met with predominantly positive critical reception. Stephen Thomas Erlewine from Allmusic said that \"Like a Virgin\" was a definitive statement. He added that the song, and \"Material Girl\" from the same album, made Madonna an icon. He added that both overshadowed the rest of the record, \"because they are a perfect match of theme and sound.\" Debbie Miller from \"Rolling Stone\" commented that Madonna's voice \"doesn't have the power or range of, say, Cyndi Lauper, but she knows what works on the dance floor.\" In 2014, Ryan Reed, also writing for \"Rolling Stone\", called the song a \"classic\".\n\nDave Karger from \"Entertainment Weekly\", while reviewing the album in 1995, felt that the song came off a bit repetitious and immature when compared to the present context. Jim Farber from \"Entertainment Weekly\" felt that the song raised the \"madonna-whore\" ante. Sal Cinquemani from Slant Magazine called the song a classic. Alfred Soto from Stylus Magazine felt that the song was chic in its style. Katie Henderson from \"The Guardian\" commented that the song was saucy in nature. Michael Paoletta from \"Billboard\" commented that the song sustained a \"fevered dance-rock momentum.\"\n\nIn 2000, \"Like a Virgin\", was honored by \"Rolling Stone\" and MTV, as the fourth song on their list of the \"100 Greatest Pop Songs\". It was voted ten on VH1's 100 Best Songs of the Past 25 Years. The song was listed at ninety-five on \"Billboard Hot 100 All-Time Top Songs\". In 2003, Madonna fans were asked to vote for their 'Top 20 Madonna singles of all-time', by \"Q\" magazine. \"Like a Virgin\" was allocated the fifth spot on the list.\n\n\"Like a Virgin\" became Madonna's first of 12 number-one hits on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, where it debuted at number 48 on the issue dated November 17, 1984. The song reached number one on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart the week of December 22, 1984 and remained there for six weeks. \"Like a Virgin\" was certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) on January 10, 1985, for shipping a million copies across United States—the requirement for a gold single prior to 1989. The song also reached number-one on the Hot Dance Music/Club Play chart, and was her first top-ten entry on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart at position nine. It placed at two on the year-end chart for 1985, with Madonna becoming the top pop artist for the year. In Canada, the song debuted on the \"RPM\" Singles Chart at number 71 on the \"RPM\" issue dated November 24, 1984, and reached the top of the chart on January 19, 1985. It was present on the chart for a total of 23 weeks and ranked thirty-five on the \"RPM\" Year-end chart for 1985.\n\nThe song debuted on the UK Singles Chart on November 17, 1984 at number 51, and peaked at number three on January 12, 1985; it spent a total of 18 weeks in the chart, and was certified gold by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI) for shipment of 500,000 copies across United Kingdom. According to Official Charts Company, the song has sold 892,000 copies there as of August 2018. Across Europe, the song peaked within the top ten of the charts of Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Ireland, Netherlands, Norway and Switzerland. According to \"Music & Media\" magazine the song had sold around 1.5 million copies in Europe by September 1985.\n\n\"Like a Virgin\" became Madonna's first number-one song on the Australian Kent Music Report chart and on the Japanese International Singles Chart. It peaked at number-two on the South African and New Zealand Singles Charts, number 15 on the Swedish charts and peaked the Eurochart Hot 100 Singles.\n\nThe music video, directed by Mary Lambert, who worked with Madonna in her video for \"Borderline\", was shot in Venice and partly in New York City in July 1984. Madonna was portrayed as a knowing virgin, a figment of the pornographic mind, as she walked through marble rooms, wearing a wedding gown. It alternated with scenes of a provocative-looking Madonna on board a gondola. She commented, \"[Lambert] wanted me to be the modern-day, worldly-wise girl that I am. But then we wanted to go back in time and use myself as an actual virgin.\" The video starts with Madonna boarding on a boat from the Brooklyn Bridge and travels to Venice. As she steps down into the city, she moves like a stripper and undulated sinuously. She wears a black dress and blue pants with a number of Christian symbol embedded jewelry around her neck. She sings the song at full volume as she watches a lion walking between the columns of the Punta della Dogana of Venice.\n\nA number of game-playing involving carnival masks, men and lions are portrayed with allusions to eighteenth-century practices and Saint Mark. Sheila Whiteley, author of \"Women and popular music: sexuality, identity, and subjectivity\", felt that Madonna's image signified a denial of sexual knowledge, but also portrayed her in simulated writhing on a gondola, thus underpinning the simulation of deceit. The intrusion of a male lion, confirmed the underlying bestial discourse of both mythological fairy tale and pornographic sex. Whiteley observed that in the video, Madonna's lover wears the lion's mask and while cavorting with him, Madonna sheds the veneer of innocence and shows her propensity for wild animal passions. Having instilled desire, metaphorically she turns her lover into a Beast. Madonna commented about shooting with the lion:\n\n\"The lion didn't do anything he was supposed to do, and I ended up leaning against this pillar with his head in my crotch... I thought he was going to take a bite out of me so I lifted the veil I was wearing and had a stare-down with him and he opened his mouth and let out this huge roar. I got so frightened my heart fell in my shoe. When he finally walked away, the director yelled 'Cut' and I had to take a long breather. But I could really relate to the lion. I feel like in a past life I was a lion or a cat or something.\"\n\nWith the video, scholars noted the expression of Venetian vitality in it. Author Margaret Plant (2002) commented: \"With the lion of Saint Mark and the virginal city to the forefront, old sacrosanct Venice was propelled into a pop world of high-energy gyration, and endless circulation.\" She also noted that Saint Mark was a symbol of a time when sexual crime was punished severely in Venice and acts of rape, homosexuality and fornication incurred the loss of a nose, a hand or sometimes life itself. Madonna appeared to challenge such brutality and stretch the boundaries of tolerance in the video. As the lion-man carried Madonna to the Venetian palace, it symbolized an instance of the Saint taking the simulated Virgin, where Madonna became a symbol for La Serenissima, the Republic itself.\n\nPlant also noted that Madonna, in the video, restored the energy and eroticism of Venice, which had its name taken from Venus in familiar elision. As she exchanged her blue top for a black one during the video, Madonna demonstrated her mastery and bravery of the city, which had a reputation of turning out its visitors as victims. Carol Clerk (2002) commented that with the video, \"Madonna's days as a cheap and cheerful video star were over. She was moving into serious spectacle.\"\n\nIn 1985, a live music video of \"Like a Virgin\" from The Virgin Tour filmed in Detroit, was used to promote \"\" video release. This version was nominated for Best Choreography at the 1986 MTV Video Music Awards. The live performance of \"Like a Virgin\" from the Blond Ambition World Tour in Paris, France was released as a music video on May 9, 1991 to promote the documentary film \"\". This version was nominated for two awards at the 1991 MTV Video Music Awards in the categories of Best Female Video and Best Choreography. This video was ranked at position sixty-one on VH1's 100 Greatest Videos.\n\nMadonna performed \"Like a Virgin\" at the first MTV Video Music Awards in 1984, where she appeared on stage atop a giant wedding cake dressed in a wedding dress, adorned with her \"Boy Toy\" belt buckle, and veil. The climax of her risqué performance found her \"humping\" and rolling around on the stage. It is considered by critics and academics as \"one of the most important and most unforgettable VMA performances ever\". The song was subsequently performed at The Virgin Tour in 1985. Madonna again donned a wedding attire and the performance featured a quotation from Michael Jackson's similar-sounding Motown-style single, \"Billie Jean\". Balloons floated out towards the audience as she rolled around the stage, carrying a wedding bouquet in her hand. The performance was included in the VHS release \"\" recorded in Detroit, Michigan.\n\nOn the 1987 Who's That Girl World Tour, the song was given a lighthearted comedic theme and included quotations from The Four Tops' \"I Can't Help Myself (Sugar Pie Honey Bunch)\". Madonna took off her outfit piece by piece, until she was standing in a black corset, and ended the performance while flirting with a young male dancer who played her bridegroom. Two different performances of the song on this tour can be found on the videos: \"Who's That Girl: Live in Japan\", filmed in Tokyo, Japan, on June 22, 1987, and \"\", filmed in Turin, Italy, on September 4, 1987.\nFor the 1990 Blond Ambition World Tour, the song was re-invented with a middle-eastern arrangement and risqué choreography which found Madonna wearing a gold corset, while simulating masturbation on a red silk bed, accompanied by two male dancers who wore the infamous cone bras designed by Jean-Paul Gaultier.</ref> Two different performances were taped and released on video, the \"Blond Ambition: Japan Tour 90\", taped in Yokohama, Japan, on April 27, 1990, and the \"Blond Ambition World Tour Live\", taped in Nice, France, on August 5, 1990. During The Girlie Show World Tour in 1993, Madonna wore a tuxedo and adopted a Marlene Dietrich-like persona, singing the song with a thick German accent. The overplayed accent and three-quarter time signature gave the performance a sense of parody. Dietrich's look in the 1930 film \"Morocco\" inspired the whole performance. The performance was included on \"\" home video release, recorded on November 19, 1993 at Sydney, Australia.\n\nIn April 2003, while promoting her ninth studio album \"American Life\", an impromptu acoustic performance of the song was done by Madonna at New York's Tower Records. Madonna's performance of \"Hollywood\" at the 2003 MTV Video Music Awards recreated the 1984 performance of \"Like a Virgin\". The performance started with Britney Spears emerging from a giant cake singing the first few lines. She was later joined by Christina Aguilera and both of them writhed on the stage while singing. Madonna appeared on the cake dressed as a groom and sang \"Hollywood\", and ultimately kissed both Spears and Aguilera on the mouth.\n\nDuring the Confessions Tour in 2006, the song was given a horse riding theme. Madonna wore a tight, black body suit, and performed the song atop a studded leather S&M carousel horse, while X-rays of her broken bones, the result of a horse-riding accident on her 47th birthday, flashed on the screens behind her. The performance was included on \"The Confessions Tour\" live album, released in 2007. In 2008's Sticky & Sweet Tour, Madonna sang the song in Rome and dedicated it to Pope Benedict XVI, commenting \"I'd like to dedicate this song to the Pope, I know he loves me\" and asked the audience to sing along with her. The song was again performed on The MDNA Tour (2012), during the third section of the show. \"Like a Virgin\" was stripped down to a simple Burlesque-version played on the piano, featuring elements of the soundtrack \"Evgeni's Waltz\" from the 2011 film, \"W.E.\" On the Rebel Heart Tour (2015–2016), a bass-heavy version of \"Like a Virgin\" ended the second act of the show with Madonna dancing alone on the stage. The remix was created in 2008 by French music producer Denis Zabee, who was contacted by Madonna's representatives for selling the rights to the music. Jim Farber of \"Daily News\" described it as the show's \"most stunning move\". The performance was included in the live album \"Rebel Heart Tour\" recorded in Sydney, Australia, and released in September 2017.\n\nIn 1985, The Lords of the New Church recorded \"Like a Virgin\" for their compilation album \"Killer Lords\". Gary Hill from Allmusic called the composition as \"very funny and obnoxious\". The same year, \"Weird Al\" Yankovic parodied the song with his single \"Like a Surgeon\" from the album \"Dare to Be Stupid\". Eugene Chadbourne from Allmusic commented: \"Turning the tacky Madonna hit inside out and upside down, Yankovic comes up with a hilarious satire of the medical profession.\" In 1991, Scottish band Teenage Fanclub covered \"Like a Virgin\" on their second album, \"The King\". In the opening scene of the 1992 film \"Reservoir Dogs\", written and directed by Quentin Tarantino, Mr. Brown (played by Tarantino himself) insists that \"Like a Virgin\" is a \"metaphor for big dicks\". When Madonna met Tarantino at a party after the film was released, she gave him an autographed copy of her \"Erotica\" album, signing \"Quentin: it's about love, not dick\".\n\nThe song also appears on the soundtrack of the 2001 film \"Moulin Rouge!\" and is sung by the characters Harold Zidler, played by Jim Broadbent, and The Duke of Monroth, played by Richard Roxburgh. In 2004, The Meat Purveyors covered the song in a bluegrass medley, pairing it with Madonna's \"Lucky Star\" and \"Burning Up.\" In the 2004 film \"\", the title character teaches the song to women in a Thai prison, after becoming annoyed that they are singing the song badly. She tells them, \"Madonna is nothing if not a perfectionist!\" In one of the episodes of the TV show \"Grey's Anatomy\", the character of Cristina Yang hums the song during surgery to take the focus off herself. However, when her assisting surgery, Lexie Grey starts singing along, Christina looks venomously at her until she quiets down. Katy Perry, Travis Barker and DJ AM covered the song at the 2008 MTV Video Music Awards. In 2009, the song was namechecked in the Train hit single \"Hey, Soul Sister\" with the lyric \"I believe in you/Like a virgin you're Madonna/And I'm always gonna wanna blow your mind\".\n\nThe song was covered in the 2010 \"Glee\" episode \"The Power of Madonna\" by the cast, including Jonathan Groff, Jayma Mays, Lea Michele, Cory Monteith, Matthew Morrison, and Naya Rivera, during a dream sequence by their characters. The same year, Elton John performed a cover version of \"Like a Virgin\" at the Rainforest Fund Benefit Concert. On September 9, 2011, Vanessa Carlton posted a link to a snippet of her stripped-down cover of the song in her Twitter account. In 2012 Korean girl group 2NE1 released a cover of the song for their debut Japanese album \"Collection\". In 2012, JoJo performed a cover version of \"Like a Virgin\" at the LACMA for the Harvard Westlake Charity. The same year, Peruvian singer Wendy Sulca recorded a spanglish version. In 2014, Cristina Scuccia, a singing nun who won that year's \"The Voice of Italy\" season, released a ballad version of the song as her debut single, a cover that Madonna herself praised. Romanian singer Alexandra Stan recorded a cover version of the song with a new orchestration done by Chris Trace in late January 2017, stating that she is a fan of the track. In 2019, Big & Rich released a cover of the song. In March 2019, Mötley Crüe released a cover of the song on the soundtrack to the film \"The Dirt\".\n\n\"Like a Virgin\" is listed in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame's list of \"500 Songs That Shaped Rock And Roll\". Clerk noted the song attracted an unprecedented level of attention from social groups compared to any female singer's song. \"The main problem was that most of them listened superficially to the lyric of the song, imagining that it detailed or called on an innocent's sexual initiation.\" While one section of the population were outraged at the scandal, others were taking joy at the very notion of a virginal Madonna, who retorted by saying,\n\nI was surprised by how people reacted to \"Like a Virgin\" because when I did that song, to me, I was singing about how something made me feel a certain way – brand-new and fresh – and everyone interpreted it as I don't want to be a virgin anymore. Fuck my brains out! That's not what I sang at all. \"Like a Virgin\" was always absolutely ambiguous.\nBiographer Andrew Morton noted that most of Madonna's admirers were females, who were born-and-brought-up with an image of old-fashioned stereotypes of women as virginal brides, or as whores, or with feminist values that rejected the use of a woman's looks for her self-advancement. Author William McKeen of \"Rock and roll is here to stay: an anthology\" commented that with the song, Madonna became the last word in attitude and fashion for young girls of that time. He compared that image of Madonna with that of Barbie. McKeen explained that Madonna intermixed middle-class ideas of femininity with examples of what femininity meant to her, which was having equal opportunity. She offered an aggressive sexuality that implied it was acceptable for women not only to initiate relationships, but also enjoy them. In addition, according to Morton, at a time when eighties fashions were promoting flat-chested, stick-thin women as ideals of beauty, the more curvaceous Madonna made average girls feel that it was fine to be in the shape they were. A new word called 'Madonna wannabe' was introduced to describe the thousands of girls who tried to emulate Madonna's style. University professors, gender-studies experts and feminists earnestly started discussing her role as a post-modernist style and cultural icon. According to author Debbi Voller, \"Like a Virgin\" gave rise to the icon Madonna.\n\nThe performance of \"Like a Virgin\" at the first MTV Video Music Awards is considered by MTV as \"one of the most iconic pop performances of all time\". Christina Garibaldi from the channel noted that the performance \"helped make the Video Music Awards a household name... and simultaneously set the bar for every other performer to come after her. From that point forward, every artist, when they hit the VMA stage, wanted to have a performance you would forever be talking about.\" \"Billboard\" ranked it at number two of \"The 100 Greatest Award Show Performances of All Time\", explaining that \"Before Madonna, the best award-show performances could hope for was to get people to buy the record, after her, they became the historical record; the way we remember stars at their most iconic, and the way they demonstrate their immortality, no matter whose names are on the night's envelopes. It's the veritable big bang for the format as pop art.\" According to Joe Lynch from the same magazine, the song's performance at the 1990 Blond Ambition World Tour \"opened the gates for everyone from Marilyn Manson to Miley Cyrus to shock and awe on stage in the decades to come.\"\n\n\n\n\nCredits adapted from the album liner notes.\n\n!scope=\"col\" colspan=\"3\"| Digital\n\n"}
{"id": "2248144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248144", "title": "Barbara and the Uniques", "text": "Barbara and the Uniques\n\nBarbara and the Uniques was a 1960s and 1970s R&B girl group.\n\nThe group began when the Duettes, a group featuring Barbara Livsy and her cousin, Mary Hayes, was liquidated in 1965. Barbara got together with her sister Gwen Livsey and a friend, Doris Lindsey, and released the soul ballad \"There It Goes Again\" (written by Eugene Record of The Chi-Lites) as Barbara and the Uniques in 1970. The song was very successful at the local level, causing Arden Records to distribute it nationally. The song became a huge hit, and reached #16 on the R&B charts. Although it was a solid R&B entry, it did not fare so well on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, where it reached #91.\n\nThe group followed up with two singles on the Arden label in 1971: \"You're Gonna Make Me Cheat On You\" / \"I'll Never Let You Go\" and \"You Make Me Feel So Young Again\" / \"Take Me As I Am\". In 1972, the group moved to Abbot Records and released \"He's Gone\", which recycled \"Take Me As I Am\" for the B-side.\n\nGwen and Doris quit the group and were replaced with male session singers. Now dubbed Barbara Blake and the Uniques on 20th Century Records, in 1974, they released \"Prized Possession\" / \"It's Not That Easy\" and \"Teach Me\" / \"Everlasting Thrill\". Both releases flopped, but still the group's eponymous LP was released in 1975. A 1975 single, \"Need Your Love So Bad\" / \"Let Me Down Easy\", also failed.\n\nThe band broke up when their contract with 20th Century Records expired.\n"}
{"id": "2248155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248155", "title": "Villafuerte", "text": "Villafuerte\n\nVillafuerte is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2248157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248157", "title": "Havoc (2005 film)", "text": "Havoc (2005 film)\n\nHavoc is a 2005 American crime drama film starring Anne Hathaway and Bijou Phillips, with Shiri Appleby, Freddy Rodriguez, Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Michael Biehn, and Laura San Giacomo appearing in supporting roles. The film is about the lives of wealthy Los Angeles teenagers whose exposure to hip hop culture inspires them to imitate the gangster lifestyle. They run into trouble when they encounter a gang of drug dealers, discovering they are not as street-wise as they had thought.\n\nWritten by Jessica Kaplan and Stephen Gaghan and directed by Barbara Kopple, the film was shown at several film festivals and then was released directly on DVD on November 29, 2005.\n\nThe film begins in a parking lot in which a teenage filmmaker named Eric is attempting to document the faux-gangsta lifestyle enjoyed by Allison Lang and her boyfriend Toby's gang of white upper-class teenagers living in the Pacific Palisades neighborhood. A brawl ensues between Toby's gang and another gang, which ends with both sides fleeing just before police arrive. Later that night, Toby's gang goes to a party at Eric's house, and Allison's relationship with Toby as well as her other friends Emily and Sam is further revealed. At the end of the party, Allison performs oral sex on her boyfriend.\n\nThe next day, Allison meets with her father, Stuart, at work to discuss family problems, the awkward conversation revealing the virtually non-existent relationship Allison has with her parents. Afterwards, she and her friends drive downtown into East LA, intent on buying marijuana, eventually encountering Mexican drug dealer Hector and his crew. Toby and Hector make a deal, but Toby believes that Hector did not sell him enough for what he paid, and attempts to confront Hector, who pulls a gun on him, humiliating him in front of his friends. Allison persuades Hector to leave Toby alone.\n\nThe next night, Allison and her girlfriends return to the location of the drug deal. There, she and her friends once again meet up with Hector and his crew, who invite them to a party at his house. Before they leave, Hector informs Allison of a motel where his crew regularly party, and invites her to stop by if she wishes. The next day, Eric continues his film project at Allison's home, with Allison turning his interview of her into a bizarre mind-game.\n\nThat evening, Allison meets up with Hector again in a store, and he shows her around his neighborhood, while talking about his family and lifestyle. His guided tour abruptly ends when the police arrive in force, ostensibly on a drug bust. Allison winds up being arrested with the other present gang members, but – save for an argument with her parents and Toby – is let off the hook. The experience only serves to increase Allison's fascination with the inner-city lifestyle. The night after her release, Allison and Emily agree to head downtown the next evening to hang out with Hector's crew.\n\nThe two meet up with Hector and his gang at a motel, and a night of partying and drinking results in Allison and Emily asking Hector if they can join his crew. Hector informs them of their initiation; to join the gang, the two must roll a dice; the number they roll corresponds to the number of gang members they must have sex with.\n\nAllison rolls a one, Emily rolls a three. Hector and Allison pair off, but Allison has second thoughts and refuses to have sex with him, and is thrown out of the room by the gang when she tries to get Emily to leave with her. Emily eagerly engages in sex with Hector, but as she does so, Hector has one of his fellow gang members rape her anally. When Allison storms the room and screams at the men to stop, they flee the room, leaving the two distraught women.\n\nThe next day, Allison returns to the motel and confronts Hector over the previous night, but he responds by saying he didn't do anything wrong, that he only did what she and Emily asked him to do. At that moment, a woman shows up at the door, surprising Allison, much to the amusement of Hector, who mocks Allison for thinking he had feelings for her, and calling her a poser who only knows how to play games and nothing about the realities of gang life.\n\nThe same day, Emily is shown at a police station, accusing Hector and his crew of gang rape. Allison is brought in for questioning, but claims to know nothing about a rape. Hector is subsequently arrested, and members of his crew vow to seek out and silence Allison and Emily, but wind up getting lost in Bel-Air. Meanwhile, Toby and his gang are shown posing with guns in front of Eric and his video camera, making clear their intent on seeking revenge on Hector's crew. Eric later shows Allison the footage, and Allison subsequently calls Toby and makes an ill-fated attempt to convince him that there was no rape and what he is doing is foolish.\n\nAllison informs Emily of what Toby plans to do, and reveals to Emily's parents the events at the motel. This initially upsets Emily to the point of nearly attempting suicide, but eventually the two reconcile. Meanwhile, Toby and his gang arrive at Hector's motel and bust in violently, but only succeed in frightening a group of Latino women and a baby. Toby tries to work up the nerve to shoot them, but, consumed by their desperate pleas to not hurt the baby, realizes he can't and storms out.\n\nOn their drive home, the gang passes the SUV containing the members of Hector's crew that had been looking for Allison and Emily. The two gangs exchange looks, and the screen subsequently fades to black. After a few seconds the sounds of tires squealing, people shouting and gunfire are heard.\n\nEric concludes his film with Allison saying that teens will be teens, but if adults are willing to reach out to them to connect and give them even just a small amount of insight, it's like they suddenly know everything.\n\n\nThe original treatment of the script was written in 1993 by Jessica Kaplan, who was 14 years old at the time, and was based on her own observations of her affluent white classmates in West Los Angeles. Her script was sold to New Line Cinema two years later for $150,000. Originally titled \"The Powers That Be\", the script went unused for seven years, eventually gaining traction with the studio after it received a re-write as well as a new title from Stephen Gaghan. On June 6, 2003, shortly before filming began, Kaplan was killed in a plane crash in Los Angeles, along with four other people, including her uncle. A dedication to Kaplan is shown preceding the credits at the end of the film.\n\nMandy Moore was originally cast as Allison, but dropped out and was replaced by her \"Princess Diaries\" co-star Hathaway shortly before filming began. Moore reportedly left the project because she felt uncomfortable with the film's subject matter. Jena Malone was originally set to play Emily, but left the project shortly after Moore's departure.\n\nPrincipal photography took place around Southern California, including Los Angeles, Altadena, Brentwood, and Santa Monica, in the fall of 2003.\n\n\"Havoc\" was not given a theatrical release in the United States but got one overseas, grossing only $371,000 on a $9 million budget.\n\nThe film earned a 53% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on 11 reviews.\n\nLisa Nesselson of \"Variety\" claimed that the film \"too often feels like a gussied-up '50s-style treatise about the dangers of nice girls flirting with social rebels,\" and suggested that the film be re-titled \"Slumming for Dummies.\" Maitland McDonagh of \"TV Guide\" stated that the picture was a minor effort that was even more disappointing after considering the highly regarded names who had worked on the film, most notably Academy Award-winners Kopple and Gaghan. Richard Roeper of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" was among the few noted critics who praised the film, calling it \"harrowing and authentic,\" and also claimed that it might have made his list of top 10 films for 2005 had it received a proper theatrical release in the U.S.\n\nVarious critics praised Hathaway's performance in the film. Some critics such as Christopher Null claimed that Hathaway's performance proved \"without a doubt that she has been underutilized as an actress for far too long.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2248175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248175", "title": "Oosterenkstadion", "text": "Oosterenkstadion\n\nThe Oosterenkstadion was the stadium of Dutch football club FC Zwolle. At the time of its demolition the all-seater stadium had a capacity of 6,865 spectators. It was replaced by the FC Zwolle Stadion, later renamed the IJsseldelta Stadion.\n\nThe stadium was built in 1934 and was thoroughly renovated in the 1980s. The main stand has been named after Johan Cruijff, because Johan Cruijff had played his last official match, in 1984, against FC Zwolle.\n\nConstruction of a new stadium on the location of the current stadium was planned to start in November 2004, but was suspended when citizens of Zwolle protested against plans for a casino in the stadium. For the casino, the local gambling regulations had to be amended. A referendum on the issue in early March 2005 gave the opponents of the casino a resounding victory (approximately 76% of the voters voted against the casino), and the local government decided to abandon the plans. Almost two months later, a new plan was announced, which included a casino in the stadium within the limits set by local gambling regulations.\n\nConstruction started in March 2007. The new stadium has a planned capacity of about 10,500 spectators and the total plan (with hotel, casino, restaurants, shops and offices will cost approx. €50 million. It opened on 29 August 2009.\n\nOn May 22, 2007, the board of FC Zwolle asked the supporters to come up with suggestions for the names of the new stands. The names had to be those of former players of PEC and of FC Zwolle. This caused an uproar among the supporters, who demanded that one of the stands be named after former chairman and club owner Marten Eibrink. A few days later, on May 26, the board announced that it had decided to name the north stand of the new stadium, where the most devout supporters would be seated, Marten Eibrink Stand. On June 1, the club started a poll on its website, in which supporters could choose from six names for the three remaining stands: Henk Timmer, Fred Patrick, Jaap Stam, René IJzerman, Leo Koopman and Klaas Drost. On June 14, the club announced that the three stands would be named after Henk Timmer, Fred Patrick and Klaas Drost.\n"}
{"id": "2248182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248182", "title": "Piano Concerto No. 1 (Beethoven)", "text": "Piano Concerto No. 1 (Beethoven)\n\nLudwig van Beethoven's Piano Concerto No. 1 in C major, Op. 15, was written in 1795, then revised in 1800. The first performance took place on 18 December 1795 in Vienna with Beethoven himself as soloist. It was first published in 1801 in Vienna with dedication to his pupil Princess Anna Louise Barbara Odescalchi (née Countess von Keglević), known to her friends as \"Babette\".\n\nAlthough this was Beethoven's first piano concerto to be published, it was actually his third attempt at the genre, following an unpublished piano concerto in E-flat major of 1784 (not to be confused with Beethoven's more famous \"Emperor\" concerto, also in E-flat) and the Piano Concerto No. 2. The latter was published in 1801 in Leipzig after the Piano Concerto No. 1, but was composed over a period of years, perhaps beginning ca. 1788. Its first performance took place on 29 March 1795, several months before the concerto now referred to customarily as \"No. 1\".\n\nAs with the Piano Concerto No. 2, this C major concerto reflects Beethoven's assimilation of the styles of Mozart and Haydn, while its abrupt harmonic shifts demonstrate Beethoven's musical personality. It adheres to the concerto variant of sonata form and is scored for solo piano and an orchestra consisting of flute, 2 oboes, 2 clarinets, 2 bassoons, 2 horns, 2 trumpets, timpani, and strings. The flute, oboes, trumpets, and timpani are tacet during the second movement.\n\nTempo: = 144\n\nThe first movement is in sonata form, but with an added orchestral exposition, a cadenza, and a coda. It has a main theme repeated many times, and there are several subordinate themes. The orchestral exposition changes keys many times, but the second exposition is mainly in G major. The development starts in E-flat major, then modulates to C minor, which ends with an octave glissando. The recapitulation is in C major.\n\nThere are three options for the cadenza to this movement, which vary in length and difficulty. The coda is played by the orchestra alone. Performances vary in length from fourteen to eighteen minutes.\n\nThe second movement is in the key of A-flat major, in this context a key relatively remote from the concerto's opening key of C major. If the movement adhered to traditional form, its key would be F major, the subdominant key, or in G major, the dominant key. The clarinets are given an unusually prominent role in this movement, having the melody as often as violins.\n\nLike many slow movements, this movement is in ternary (ABA) form. Its opening A section presents several themes that are then developed in the middle B section. \n\nTypical performances last more than ten minutes.\n\nThe third movement is a seven-part sonata rondo (ABACABA), a traditional third-movement form in classical concerti. The piano states the main theme, which is then repeated by the orchestra. The two B sections (subordinate themes) are in G major and C major respectively. The middle section is in A minor.\n\nTwo short cadenzas are indicated by Beethoven in this movement, one just before the final return to the main theme, and another one immediately before the end of the movement, which finishes with a striking dynamic contrast; the piano plays a melody quietly, but the orchestra then ends the movement forcefully.\n\nThe movement typically lasts around eight to nine minutes.\n\nGerman pianist Wilhelm Kempff wrote his own cadenzas for both the first and last movements and played these in his various recordings of the work. Canadian pianist Glenn Gould also wrote his own cadenza, which was published by Barger and Barclay, and recorded for EMI in 1996 by Lars Vogt with the City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra under Simon Rattle\n\n"}
{"id": "2248191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248191", "title": "Maphilindo", "text": "Maphilindo\n\nThe Greater Malayan Confederation, or Maphilindo (for Malaysia, the Philippines, and Indonesia), was a proposed, nonpolitical confederation of the three Southeast Asian countries.\n\nThe original plan for a united state based on the concept of the Malay race was attempted by Wenceslao Vinzons during the Philippines' Commonwealth Era. Vinzons had envisioned a united Malay race, which he termed Malaya Irredenta (later another name for the union). In his 1959 book \"Someday, Malaysia\", Major Eduardo Abdul Latif Martelino (later operations officer in the infamous Jabidah massacre) also cited the vision of then-President of the Philippines Manuel L. Quezon for integrated, pan-Malayan nationhood in the region. The president envisioned creating a better state which was united. Having a united race at the time would pave way for the development of the Malay. The united state would however, be achieved by the contribution of the people living in the region. The president was determined to make his intensions known to the people so that the vision could be easily achieved in the future.\n\nMaphilindo was initially proposed as a realization of Filipino national hero Dr. José Rizal's dream of uniting the Malay peoples, seen as artificially divided by colonial frontiers. Uniting the Malay people was highly prioritized resulting in many events occurring within the region. Dr. José Rizal significantly contributed to creating and officiating events designed to unite the people. In July 1963, Quezon's later successor, President Diosdado Macapagal, convened a summit in Manila where the three countries signed a series of agreements to resolve controversies over the former British colonies of North Borneo and Sarawak joining Malaysia. The treaties paved way for new developments in the region which would later contribute to the development of the country to what it is now. \n\nWhile the union was described as a regional association that would approach issues of common concern, it was also perceived as a tactic employed by the Philippines and Indonesia to hinder the formation of the Federation of Malaysia as Malaya's successor state. The Philippines had its own claim over the eastern part of Sabah (formerly British North Borneo), while Indonesia protested the formation of Malaysia as a British imperialist plot. The Indonesians and the Filipinos categorized the signing of the treaty between Britain and the Malaya country as a plot for the former to establish a colony within their borders. The assumption later resulted in heated conflicts between Malaysia, Indonesia and Philippines. \n\nThe union was dismantled a month later when Sukarno, President of Indonesia, adopted a policy of \"Konfrontasi\" (Indonesian, \"confrontation\") with the newly constituted Malaysia. The Konfrontasi aimed to prevent Malaysia from achieving full sovereignty and was introduced to President Sukarno by the Communist Party of Indonesia or PKI. The PKI had convinced President Sukarno that the formation of Malaysia was a form of neo-colonization that will later affect Indonesian stability.\n\n"}
{"id": "2248193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248193", "title": "Unkoku Togan", "text": "Unkoku Togan\n\nUnkoku Togan (雲谷 等顔, 1547–1618) was a Japanese painter.\n\nHe was born into a privileged family in Nagasaki, the second son of Hara Naoie, lord of Nokomi Castle in Hizen province.\n\nStarting as an artist of the Kanō school, Togan's work soon took its inspiration from the style of Sesshu. He painted realistic landscapes, usually ink on paper.\n\nHe worked under Lord Mori of Yamaguchi Prefecture. Later, he became a Buddhist priest and abbot of Unkoku-an Temple. He died in Yamaguchi.\n\n"}
{"id": "2248194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248194", "title": "Acid Memories", "text": "Acid Memories\n\nAcid Memories is a studio album by Scottish electronic music duo Boards of Canada. It was released in 1989 under their own label Music70. It was released in limited quantities that were only given to friends and family of the band. This album has never been publicly released. The only part of the album that is publicly available is a 26-second sample of \"Duffy\" formerly available on the EHX website Electronic Audio Artform in The Capital in the late 1990s. This sample has since been uploaded to YouTube.\n\nRichard Southern described the album in a Jockey Slut article as \"Absurdly rare, cassette-only release from the barely teen Boards, then six-strong. Guitars meet electronics in embryonic but recognisably Boards-ian melodicism\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2248196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248196", "title": "M-39 (Michigan highway)", "text": "M-39 (Michigan highway)\n\nM-39 is a north–south state trunkline highway in Metro Detroit area of the US state of Michigan that runs from Lincoln Park, on the south end, to Southfield on the north. The official southern terminus of M-39 is at the corner of Southfield Road and Lafayette Boulevard in Lincoln Park, one block southeast of the junction of Interstate 75 (I-75, Fisher Freeway) and two blocks northwest of M-85 (Fort Street). From there the highway heads northward. The first of the highway follows Southfield Road, a divided highway in the Downriver area. It then transitions into the Southfield Freeway, which is a freeway that runs from Allen Park north through Dearborn, and then the west side of Detroit, to Southfield. The northern terminus is at M-10 (Lodge Freeway) in Southfield.\n\nThe current M-39 is the third highway to bear the designation. The first dated back to the origins of the state highway system in 1919 and ran between Grand Rapids and Lansing. This highway was replaced in segments through the 1920s and 1930s by realignments or extensions of other highways in the area. The second was part of Schaefer Highway in the Detroit area from 1939 until the end of the 1950s. The current highway was commissioned when the M-39 designation was moved to Southfield Road from Schaefer Highway. During the 1960s, it was converted into a freeway in stages. Afterwards, it was extended to end at M-85 (Fort Street) before a change in the 1980s gave the trunkline its present termini.\n\nM-39 begins at Lafayette Boulevard a block east of its junction with I-75 in Lincoln Park. From there the road is a six-lane boulevard through residential areas as it runs west-northwesterly to pass under I-75. In Allen Park, the highway continues through residential and commercial areas. Southfield Road crosses lines of the Norfolk Southern Railway and Conrail Shared Assets Operations near the location where the highway turns to the northeast and transitions into a six-lane limited-access freeway. Immediately after this transition, the Southfield Freeway, as M-39 is now called, has an interchange with I-94. There is a second, adjacent interchange that connects to Van Born Road, and the freeway winds its way northeasterly through Dearborn. The freeway is bordered by service drives that carry one-way traffic and bear the Southfield Road name on either side. M-39 meets Outer Drive next to the Fairlane Green power center. The adjoining properties are residential to the west and commercial to the east. Near Greenfield Village, the freeway curves to the northwest around the Ford Proving Grounds before turning to the north, a direction it will maintain until the end of its run. The freeway crosses the River Rouge and meets US Highway 12 (US 12, Michigan Avenue) next to the Fairlane Town Center and Ford Motor Company's world headquarters in Dearborn near the campus of the University of Michigan–Dearborn.\nNorth of the interchange for M-153, (Ford Road), M-39 crosses into Detroit. From there the road continues through the densely populated areas of the west side of the city. Next to the Chicago Road overpass, the freeway runs under a CSX Transportation rail line. The trunkline continues traveling to the north through a series of interchanges. The first is a partial interchange for Plymouth Road; northbound traffic exiting here is directed to use the service drive northbound to access Schoolcraft Road, and traffic can enter M-39 southbound. Next is the stack interchange with I-96 (Jeffries Freeway) with access to both the local and express lanes of that freeway. The last of the series is another partial interchange with Schoolcraft Road. As a counterpart to the Plymouth Road interchange, this one provides access from southbound M-39 to the cross street with a signed connection along the southbound service drive to Plymouth Road and an entry point for northbound traffic. Continuing north, M-39 comes to an interchange with M-5 (Grand River Avenue) which also connects to Fenkell Avenue, the 5 Mile Road equivalent on Detroit's mile road system.\n\nThere are three more interchanges along M-39 in Detroit as the freeway continues through the residential upper west side. Near the Wayne Community College District, the freeway meets McNichols Road (6 Mile). There is another interchange approximately north at 7 Mile Road as well. The road then crosses the border between Wayne and Oakland counties to enter Southfield at the interchange with M-102 (8 Mile Road). The Southfield Freeway, and M-39, terminates at an interchange with M-10 (John C. Lodge Freeway) near 9 Mile Road. Southfield Road continues northward from the end of the freeway under local maintenance.\n\nM-39 is maintained by the Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT) like other state highways in Michigan. As a part of these maintenance responsibilities, the department tracks the volume of traffic that uses the roadways under its jurisdiction. These volumes are expressed using a metric called annual average daily traffic, which is a statistical calculation of the average daily number of vehicles on a segment of roadway. MDOT's surveys in 2010 showed that the highest traffic levels along M-39 were the 159,400 vehicles daily between Schoolcraft Road and Grand River Avenue in Detroit; the lowest counts were the 20,400 vehicles per day between the I-94 and Van Born Road interchanges. All of M-39, and Southfield Road on either end that is not under state maintenance, has been listed on the National Highway System, a network of roads important to the country's economy, defense, and mobility.\n\nTwo previous highways bore the M-39 designation. When the state highway system was first signed in 1919, the number was assigned to a highway that ran between Grand Rapids and Lansing. The westernmost end in Kent County near Alto was replaced by a realigned M-16. Within the next few years, the western end was scaled back further to the Woodbury area when M-50 was extended, with the remainder replaced by an extended M-43 around 1938.\n\nThe next trunkline to be designated M-39 was Schaefer Highway in 1939, running north–south from US 25/M-17 (at the five-way intersection of Schaefer, Oakwood Boulevard, and Francis Street) in Melvindale to US 16 (Grand River Avenue) in western Detroit. Since M-39 was moved to Southfield Road in the end of the 1950s, Schaefer Highway has been a locally maintained road.\n\nM-39 was reassigned to Southfield Road, connecting I-94 with Northwestern Highway in 1958-59. By 1961, the freeway was marked as under construction on maps. The first section opened in December 1961 was from Ford Road north to Chicago Road. The remainder of the freeway between I-94 and the Lodge Freeway and 9 Mile Road was opened by the middle of 1964 at a total cost of $40 million. The highway designation was extended southeasterly along Southfield Road to the new I-75 freeway and a terminus at M-85 (Fort Street) in 1966. In 1987, the M-39 designation was truncated slightly so that the trunkline no longer officially connects to M-85.\n\n"}
{"id": "2248199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248199", "title": "Air Force One (disambiguation)", "text": "Air Force One (disambiguation)\n\nAir Force One is the call sign for any U.S. Air Force aircraft carrying the President of the United States.\n\nAir Force One may also refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2248210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248210", "title": "Air Force Ones (song)", "text": "Air Force Ones (song)\n\n\"Air Force Ones\" is a song by American rapper Nelly, from his \"Nellyville\" album. It was released on November 7, 2002 and features fellow rappers Kyjuan, Ali and Murphy Lee. The song was the third top 5 hit from \"Nellyville\" on the U.S. \"Billboard\" Hot 100, peaking at number 3. Its video, whose exteriors were shot at the SE corner of Delmar and Westgate in University City, Missouri, featured St. Louis professional athletes Marshall Faulk, Torry Holt, D'Marco Farr, Ray Lankford, and Ozzie Smith, and hip hop artists Big Tymers and WC.\n\nIn the song, Nelly and the St. Lunatics purchase Nike Air Force Ones, a type of shoe. They are excited.\n\nThe official remix was included on Nelly's remix album, \"\", & David Banner's album, \"\" and features the St. Lunatics on the 1st part of the chorus, David Banner, & 8Ball of 8Ball & MJG. David Banner is also the producer of the remix.\n\nUS Promo\n"}
{"id": "2248212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248212", "title": "The Pew Charitable Trusts", "text": "The Pew Charitable Trusts\n\nThe Pew Charitable Trusts is an independent non-profit, non-governmental organization (NGO), founded in 1948.\n\nWith over 6 billion in assets, its stated mission is to serve the public interest by \"improving public policy, informing the public, and invigorating civic life\".\n\nThe Trusts, a single entity, is the successor to, and sole beneficiary of, seven charitable funds established between 1948 and 1979 by J. Howard Pew, Mary Ethel Pew, Joseph N. Pew, Jr., and Mabel Pew Myrin—the adult sons and daughters of Sun Oil Company founder Joseph N. Pew and his wife, Mary Anderson Pew. Honoring their parents' religious conviction that good works should be done quietly, the original Pew Memorial Foundation was a grantmaking organization that made donations anonymously. The foundation became the Pew Memorial Trust in 1956, based in Philadelphia, the donors' hometown. Between 1957 and 1979, six other trusts were created, representing the personal and complementary philanthropic interests of the four siblings. The Trusts continues to be based in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, with offices in Washington, D.C., London, and Brussels.\n\nAlthough today The Pew Charitable Trusts is non-partisan and non-ideological, Joseph Pew and his sons were politically conservative. The modern day organization works to encourage responsive government and support scientific research on a wide range of issues, including global ocean governance, correction reform, and antibiotic resistance.\n\nEarly priorities of the Pew Memorial Trust included cancer research, the American Red Cross, and a pioneering project to assist historically black colleges. Later beneficiaries included conservative organizations such as the John Birch Society, the American Liberty League, and the American Enterprise Institute, as well as environmental organizations such as the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Oceana, and mainstream think tanks like the center-left Brookings Institution. The Trusts continues to fund charities and the arts in Philadelphia.\n\nIn 2004, the Pew Trusts applied to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to change its status from private foundation to nonprofit organization. Since that change it can now raise funds freely and devote up to 5% of its budget to lobbying the public sector.\n\nAccording to the Pew Trusts's website, seven of the thirteen Directors serving on the Board are named Pew.\n\nThe Trusts' public policy areas include the environment, state policy, economic policy and health and human services.\n\nThe Trusts, with other groups, backed an effort to create marine protected areas in the Pacific Ocean, near the Mariana Islands. The protected area was officially designated in January 2009, and includes the Mariana Trench, the deepest ocean canyon in the world. Another marine protected area that the Trusts and other groups sought to protect is Papahānaumokuākea Marine National Monument which was protected by President Bush in 2006 and expanded by President Obama in 2016.\n\nPew's environmental portfolio is designed to help meet what they view as one of the seminal challenges of our time: saving the natural environment and protecting the rich array of life it supports.\n\nThe aim is to strengthen environmental policies and practices in ways that produce significant and measurable protection for terrestrial and marine systems worldwide. In doing so, Pew works to advance scientific understanding of the causes and consequences of environmental problems, design innovative policy solutions to these problems and mobilize public support for their implementation.\n\nEfforts are focused on reducing the scope and severity of three major global environmental problems:\n\nThe Trusts also funds the Pew Research Center, the third-largest think tank in Washington, D.C., after the Brookings Institution and the Center for American Progress.\n\nThe Trusts have worked closely with the Vera Institute of Justice on issues related to state correction policies in the Public Safety Performance Project. In 2008, the Pew reported that more than one in 100 adults in the United States is in jail or prison, an all-time high. The cost to state governments is nearly $50 billion a year and the federal government $5 billion more. The report compiled and analyzed data from the federal Bureau of Justice Statistics and Federal Bureau of Prisons and each state's department of corrections.\n\nPew reported in 2009 that \"explosive growth in the number of people on probation or parole has propelled the population of the American corrections system to more than 7.3 million, or 1 in every 31 U.S. adults.\" \"One in 31: The Long Reach of American Corrections\" examined the scale and cost of prison, jail, probation and parole in each of the 50 states, and provides a blueprint for states to cut both crime and spending by reallocating prison expenses to fund stronger supervision of the large number of offenders in the community.\n\n\"Based on data, science, and non-partisan research, the Pew works to reduce hidden risks to the health, safety, and well-being of American consumers.\" One program, the Pew Scholars Program in the Biomedical Sciences, is intended to support promising early and mid-career scientists investigating human health, both basic and clinical. The awards provide flexible support ($240,000 over a four-year period). Grantees are encouraged to be entrepreneurial and innovative in their research.\n\nThe trust also helped fund the \"Gospel and Our Culture Network\", which published books such as \"Missional Church: A vision for the sending of the Church in North America\".\n\nAccording to the 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements, as of 30 June 2018, the Trusts owned over US$6.6 billion in assets. For the 12 months ending on that date, total revenues were about US$480 million and total expenses were about $356 million, of which about $5 million were for fund raising expenses.\n\nThe Trusts have supported the relocation of the famed Barnes Art Collection from its longtime home in Lower Merion, PA, to Center City. This has been controversial in the art world. The Barnes Foundation was established by Albert C. Barnes in 1922 to \"promote the advancement of education and the appreciation of the fine arts and horticulture.\" \"The Barnes is home to one of the world's largest collections of Impressionist, Post-Impressionist and early Modern paintings, with especially deep holdings by Renoir, Matisse, and Picasso\", as well as important examples of African art, Native American pottery and jewelry, Pennsylvania German furniture, American avant-garde painting, and wrought-iron metalwork.\"\n\nOpponents of relocating the collection to a new museum along the Benjamin Franklin Parkway said that move violates Barnes' will that the collection stay intact at its original location and not be loaned, transferred or sold. Columnist Roger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" wrote in 2010, \"It is perfectly clear exactly what Barnes specified in his will. It was drawn up by the best legal minds. It is clear that what happened to his collection was against his wishes.\" Yet the Barnes Foundation prevailed in a series of legal actions and the new museum opened on May 16, 2012. At the opening Barnes trustee and treasurer Stephen Harmelin noted, \"There were financial challenges to be faced...questions about how the foundation as it existed could go on with its mission, worries about the safety and integrity of the collection in the long run,\" he said. \"We were convinced that the only change that could save the Barnes was to redouble our commitment to its mission, to reach out more widely than ever before, to build, to expand and to move the collection to a more accessible location.\"\n\nThe Trusts became involved with the Barnes Collection when the foundation overseeing the art collection had serious financial trouble, ultimately contributing more than $20 million for a new museum. \"The New York Times\"' Roberta Smith said of the new building, \"Against all odds, the museum that opens to the public on Saturday is still very much the old Barnes, only better.\"\n\nThe controversy involving Pew, other donors, the Barnes trustees and the collection was the subject of a documentary film \"The Art of the Steal\". The Trusts did not participate in the film. Rebecca Rimel, head of The Pew Charitable Trusts, said they believed the film would not be fair.\n\nBetween 2011 and 2015, financial returns show the Pew Charitable Trusts gave $4.7 million to the Texas Public Policy Foundation (TPPF). The TPPF has a program called Fueling Freedom, which seeks to \"explain the forgotten moral case for fossil fuels\" and is generally hostile to renewable energy, climate change action and environmental regulations. Kathleen Hartnett White, President Donald Trump's nominee to lead the White House Council on Environmental Quality, is from the TPPF;\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2248218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248218", "title": "Cyphostemma juttae", "text": "Cyphostemma juttae\n\nCyphostemma juttae is a slow-growing succulent species of \"Cyphostemma\" from southern Africa, well known as an ornamental plant.\n\nThe plant is also known as wild grape, tree grape, Namibian grape, Droog-my-keel and bastard cobas.\nThis species can reach tall and has large shiny leaves. It is a deciduous plant. It grows in an arid region of summer-rainfall, and it loses its leaves in the dryer winter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2248229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248229", "title": "Fight for the Rock", "text": "Fight for the Rock\n\nFight for the Rock is the third full-length album by the American heavy metal band Savatage. It is their first album with new bass player Johnny Lee Middleton, who has since become the only member to appear on each subsequent Savatage album since.\n\nReleased in 1986, it is largely regarded as the band's worst release by both fans and band members, with the band referring to it as \"Fight for the Nightmare\". Jon Oliva said in October 1994, \"I've never really been fond of that album. WE'VE never been fond of that album\". The band said that they were driven to make the record by their label, Atlantic Records; particularly Oliva began writing pop-rock songs for other artists on the label such as John Waite. However, the label eventually turned around and told the band to record the music that Oliva had written for other artists themselves. This destroyed the band's credibility in the eyes of the press and reviews were not kind to the band. It not only destroyed the band's image, but the negative critical reaction has been cited as a cause of Oliva's bout of drug and alcohol depression which eventually drove him from the fore of the band.\n\nAtlantic Records also wanted the band to have photographs taken, since none of their previous releases had included any. The band hired a friend to do the photography work, with one of the photos featuring the band re-recreating the famous photo \"Raising the Flag on Iwo Jima\". The band agreed this was a good idea at the time, but look back with the same feelings on the photos taken as they do the album.\n\nWhen initially released, the album featured a Parental Advisory label on the front cover, despite having no \"nasty words\", as Jon Oliva puts it, featured anywhere on the record. This was largely done to please the label, as they felt that putting the sticker on the record would drive up record sales. Although it did chart, the band have been extremely reluctant to perform any of the songs live, and haven't done so since the early 1990s. Even on the tour in support of the album, the band only performed \"Hyde\", \"The Edge of Midnight\" and few others.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2248231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248231", "title": "Annie on My Mind", "text": "Annie on My Mind\n\nAnnie On My Mind is a 1982 novel by Nancy Garden about the romantic relationship between two 17-year-old New York City girls, Annie and Liza.\n\nLiza Winthrop: The protagonist and narrator of the novel, Liza is a 17-year-old girl living in the upscale neighborhood of Brooklyn Heights. She attends Foster Academy, a private school nearby, which is facing financial trouble.\n\nAnnie Kenyon: Annie, also 17, lives \"far uptown\" in a shabby neighborhood. She lives with her father and mother, both Italian immigrants, and with her grandmother.\n\nLiza Winthrop first meets Annie Kenyon at the Metropolitan Museum of Art on a rainy day. The two become fast friends, although they come from different backgrounds.\n\nLiza is the student body president at her private school, Foster Academy, where she is studying hard to get into MIT and become an architect. She lives with her parents and younger brother in the upscale neighborhood of Brooklyn Heights, where most residents are professionals.\n\nAnnie goes to a public school and lives with her parents—a bookkeeper and a cabdriver—and grandmother in a lower-income part of Manhattan. Although Annie is not sure if she will be accepted, she hopes to attend the University of California, Berkeley to develop her talent as a singer.\n\nWhile they have different histories and goals in life, the two girls do share a close friendship that quickly grows into love. Liza's school is struggling to remain open and she finds herself having to defend a student who planned a poorly conceived program: ear piercing in the school basement. This results in a three-day school suspension for Liza and helps to bring Liza and Annie closer together as they both deal with the struggles encountered by many high school students.\n\nThe suspension and the partly concomitant Thanksgiving break give the girls time to become closer and lead to their first kiss. Annie admits that she has thought that she may be gay. Liza soon realizes that although she has always considered herself different, she has not considered her sexual orientation until falling in love with Annie.\n\nWhen two of Liza's female teachers (who live together) go on vacation during spring break, she volunteers for the job of taking care of their home and feeding their cats. The two girls stay at the house together, but in an unexpected turn of events a Foster Academy administrator discovers Liza and Annie together. Liza is forced to tell her family about her relationship with Annie, and the headmistress of her school organizes a meeting of the school's board of trustees in order to expel Liza. The board rules in favor of Liza staying at Foster, and she is allowed to keep her position as student president. However, the two teachers, who in the process are discovered to be gay, are fired. After their initial shock at discovering the girls together, the teachers are very supportive and go out of their way to reassure Liza not to worry about their dismissal, but a few ignorantly insensitive responses end up pushing Liza to leave Annie.\n\nThe girls go their separate ways to colleges on different coasts. In a happily ever after, Liza's reevaluation of her relationship while at college and her corresponding acceptance of her sexual orientation allow the two girls to reunite.\n\nThe book is framed and narrated by Liza's thoughts as she attempts to write Annie a letter, in response to the many letters Annie has sent her. This narration comes right before the winter break of both their colleges' and Liza is unable to write or mail the letter she had been working on. Instead she calls Annie, and the two reconcile and decide to meet together before going home for winter break.\n\nThe novel was originally published in 1982 by Farrar, Straus & Giroux. Since then, it has never been out of print.\n\nEditions of the book include the following:\nChanges in cover art throughout the years has reflected the change in attitudes towards gay people, according to the author. The original cover illustration showed Annie, in a black cloak, and Liza, standing away from Annie, on the Esplanade in Brooklyn overlooking the harbor. Garden commented that \"it really looks as if Annie is going to swoop down on Liza—almost like a vampire attacking\". Although this cover was never used, future covers failed to show the girls relating, Garden said. Garden's preferred cover art, which came out in 1992 and has been reused in more recent publications, shows \"the two girls really relating to each other equally,\" Garden said.\n\nThe American Library Association designated the book a \"Best of the Best Books for Young Adults\". The School Library Journal included the book in its list of the 100 most influential books of the 20th century. It was selected to the 1982 Booklist Reviewer's Choice, the 1982 American Library Association Best Books, and the ALA Best of the Best lists (1970–1983).\nThe Young Adult Library Services Association, a division of the American Library Association, gave Nancy Garden its Margaret A. Edwards Award for Lifetime Achievement for \"Annie on My Mind\" in 2003.\n\nThe book is #48 on The 100 Most Frequently Challenged Books during the period 1990 to 2000, according to the American Library Association. It ranked No. 44 on the ALA's 1990 to 1999 list.\n\nIn 1993, the LGBT organization Project 21 donated \"Annie on My Mind\", along with Frank Mosca's \"All-American Boys\", to 42 high schools in the Kansas City area. Because both books included homosexual themes, some parents objected that the books were made available to high school students.\n\nDuring the controversy, copies of the book were burned.\n\nAround the time the incident happened, author Nancy Garden was at a writers' conference. When asked if she had had trouble with \"Annie on My Mind\" she said no. Soon after, she learned of the burning when she received a call from Stephen Friedman, who asked, \"Did you know your book has just been burned in Kansas City?\"\n\nGarden commented on the incident,\n\nOn December 13, 1993, superintendent Ron Wimmer, of the Olathe (Kansas) School District, ordered the book removed from the high school library. Wimmer said he made his decision in order to \"avoid controversy\", such as the public book burning.\n\nThe Olathe School District refused to accept copies of the book, removing a copy that had sat on its shelf for over ten years. In response, the American Civil Liberties Union joined several families and a teacher and sued the school district for removing the book.\n\nTwo years later in September 1995, the case went to trial. In November 1995, US District Court Justice Thomas Van Bebber ruled that while a school district is not obligated to purchase any book, it cannot remove a book from library shelves unless that book is deemed educationally unsuitable. He ruled \"Annie on My Mind\" to be educationally suitable, and called its removal an unconstitutional attempt to \"prescribe what shall be orthodox in politics, nationalism, religion, or other matters of opinion\".\n\nOn December 29, 1999, the school district announced it would not appeal the court's decision, and restored \"Annie on My Mind\" to library shelves. The entire proceeding had cost the district over $160,000.\n\nAfter the banning controversy, author Nancy Garden became a spokesperson on behalf of children's intellectual freedom as readers. This earned her Robert B. Downs Intellectual Freedom Award in 2000.\n\nIn 1991, as part of BBC Radio 5's programming for gay teenagers, producer Anne Edyvean directed a dramatization of the novel, written by Sarah Daniels.\n\nIn 1994, Kim J. Smith collaborated with Nancy Garden to write a play based on her novel. The play premiered on November 4, 1994, at the Renegade Theatre in Lawrence, Kansas. Fred Phelps and some of his followers picketed the event. The play was the only production of the Renegade Youth Theatre's \"Banned Book Theatre\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2248241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248241", "title": "Wild grape", "text": "Wild grape\n\nWild grape may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2248244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248244", "title": "Gahadavala dynasty", "text": "Gahadavala dynasty\n\nThe Gahadavala dynasty (IAST: Gāhaḍavālas), was among the rulers of Indian subcontinent, that ruled parts of the present-day Indian states of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, during 11th and 12th centuries. Their capital was located at Varanasi in the Gangetic plains, and for a brief period, they also controlled Kanyakubja (modern Kannauj).\n\nChandradeva, the first monarch of the dynasty, established a sovereign kingdom sometime before 1090 CE, after the decline of the Kalachuri power. The kingdom reached its zenith under his grandson Govindachandra who annexed some of the Kalachuri territories, warded off Ghaznavid raids, and also fought the Palas. In 1194 CE, Govindachandra's grandson Jayachandra was defeated by the Ghurids, which effectively ended the dynasty's imperial power. The kingdom ceased to exist when Jayachandra's successors were defeated by the Delhi Sultanate in the 12th century.\n\nChandradeva, the first monarch of the dynasty, was a son of Mahichandra and a grandson of Yashovigraha. The Gahadavala inscriptions state that Yashovigraha \"seized the earth and made her fond of the king's sceptre (or justice)\". He did not bear any royal titles, so it appears that he was a petty chief with some military victories to his credit. He probably served a prominent king, possibly the 11th century Kalachuri king Karna. His son Mahichandra (alias Mahitala or Mahiyala) bore the feudatory title \"nṛpa\", and is said to have defeated several enemies. He may have been a Kalachuri vassal.\n\nAccording to the 1093 CE and 1100 CE Chandrawati inscriptions, the Gahadavalas occupied Kanyakubja after the descendants of Devapala had been destroyed. This Devapala can be identified as the mid-10th century Gurjara-Pratihara king of Kanyakubja. Chandradeva probably started his career as a feudatory, but declared independence sometime before 1089 CE.\n\nThe sudden rise of the Gahadavalas has led to speculation that they descended from an earlier royal house. Rudolf Hoernlé once proposed that the Gahadavalas were an offshoot of the Pala dynasty of Gauda, but this theory has been totally rejected now. Another theory identifies the dynasty's founder Chandradeva as the Kannauj Rashtrakuta scion Chandra, but this theory is contradicted by historical evidence. For example, the Rashtrakutas of Kannauj claimed origin from the legendary solar dynasty. On the other hand, the Gahadavala inscriptions state they gained power \"after\" the destruction of the solar and the lunar dynasties. Moreover, Kumaradevi, the queen of the Gahadavala ruler Govindachandra came from a Rashtrakuta branch. Her Sarnath inscription mentions the Gahadavalas and the Rashtrakutas as two distinct families, and does not indicate that one was a branch of the other.\n\nYet another theory identifies Chandradeva as Chand Rai, a \"keeper of elephants\" according to the medieval Muslim historian Salman. The \"Diwan-i-Salman\" states that a Ghaznavid army led by Mahmud (c. 971-1030) invaded India and defeated one Jaipal. As a result of this victory, the feudatory chiefs from all over the country lined up to offer allegiance to Mahmud. Mahmud received so many elephants as gifts from these chiefs, that an elephant stable was set up in Kannauj, with Chand Rai as its manager. According to the theory, Chand Rai acquired the rulership of Kannauj by promising to pay a tribute to the Ghaznavids. The Ghaznavid raids of the Gahadavala kingdom resulted from the non-payment of this tribute. The Gahadavalas inscriptions mention a \"Turushka-danda\" (\"Turkic punishment\") tax, which according to the proponents of this theory, was collected to pay a tribute to the Ghaznavid (Turkic) overlord. This theory can be criticized on several grounds. First, no Muslim chronicles mention imposition of any tribute on Chand Rai. Secondly, the meaning of \"Turushka-danda\" is not certain. Lastly, neither Hindu nor Muslim sources indicate that the Ghaznavid invasions were as a result of non-payment of tribute.\n\nThe etymology of the term \"Gahadavala\" is uncertain. This dynastic name appears only in four inscriptions of the Gahadavalas: three inscriptions issued by Chandradeva's grandson Govindachandra (as a prince), and the Sarnath inscription issued by his wife Kumaradevi. No contemporary inscriptions of the neighbouring dynasties use the term \"Gahadavala\" to describe the rulers of Kanyakubja or Varanasi. The dynastic name does not appear in contemporary literature, including in the works authored by the Gahadavala courtiers Shriharsha and Lakshmidhara (author of \"Kṛtya-Kalpataru\").\n\nC. V. Vaidya and R. C. Majumdar, who connected the Gahadavalas to the Rashtrakutas, speculated that the dynastic name might have derived from \"Gawarmad\", a place-name mentioned in a 1076 CE Kannada language inscription. However, the term is not mentioned in the early Gahadavala inscriptions. Therefore, if the dynasty's name has any geographical significance, it points to the newly acquired territories in northern India.\n\nAccording to the rulers of the Kantit feudal estate, who claimed descent from the Gahadavalas, the term \"Gahadavala\" derives from the Sanskrit word \"grahavāra\" (\"overcomer of the evil planet\"). Their fanciful legend claims that Yayati's son acquired the title \"grahavāra\" after defeating the evil planet (\"graha\") Saturn.\n\n<mapframe text=\"Find spots of the inscriptions from the Gahadavala reign\" width=\"400\" height=\"400\" zoom=\"5\" longitude=\"82.07\" latitude=\"26.26\">\n</mapframe>\n\nThe Gahadavala power was concentrated in what is now eastern Uttar Pradesh. At times, their rule extended to the western parts of Bihar. The 1090 CE Chandrawati inscription of Chandradeva states that he protected the sacred places of Kashi (Varanasi), Kushika (Kannauj), Uttara Koshala (the area around Ayodhya) and Indrasthaniyaka.\n\nThe identity of Indrasthaniyaka is unknown, but because of its similarity to the word \"Indraprastha\", some scholars have identified it as modern Delhi. Based on this, historians such as Roma Niyogi have proposed that the Tomara rulers of Delhi might have been Gahadavala feudatories. If this assumption is true, then the Gahadavala kingdom extended up to Delhi in the north-west. However, historical evidence suggests that Delhi was under the control of the Chahamanas since Vigraharaja IV (r. c. 1150-1164 CE), and before that under the Tomara sovereigns. No historical records indicate that the Gahadavalas ever ruled Delhi. Rahin (or Rahan) village in Etawah district is the furthest point in the north-west where the Gahadavala inscriptions have been discovered. Some coins attributed to Madanapala are associated with Delhi, but according to numismatist P. C. Roy these coins were actually issued a Tomara king of same name. According to Roy, Indrasthaniyaka should be identified with a place other than Delhi.\n\nThe Gahadavalas are associated with two ancient cities: Kanyakubja and Varanasi. According to the medieval legends, Kanyakubja (Kannauj) was their capital. However, according to Al-Biruni, most of the Kanyakubja city was in ruins by 1030 CE, nearly half a century before the dynasty's founder Chandradeva ascended the throne.\n\nThe vast majority of the Gahadavala inscriptions have been discovered in and around Varanasi; only one has been found in the Kanyakubja area. The majority of these inscriptions state that the king made a grant after bathing in the Ganga river at Varanasi. This suggests that the Gahadavala kings mainly lived in and around Varanasi, which was their favoured capital. They probably considered Kanyakubja as a 'capital of honour', since it had been a seat of reputed kingdoms since the Maukhari period.\n\nA verse in the 1104 CE Basahi inscription of Madanapala states that his father Chandradeva had made Kanyakubja his capital. However, Madanapala's 1105 CE Kamauli grant omits this verse, although it repeats all the other introductory verses from the Basahi grant. Other than the 1104 CE Basahi inscription, no other inscription describes Kanyakubja as the Gahadavala capital.\n\nHistorian Roma Niyogi theorized that Chandradeva temporarily moved his seat from Varanasi to Kanyakubja, because Kanyakubja was reputed as the capital of the earlier imperial powers. However, the Gahadavalas lost Kanyakubja to Ghaznavids somewhere between 1104 CE and 1105 CE, and Madanapala's son Govindachandra had to wage a war to recover it. As a result, the Gahadavalas probably moved their capital back to Varanasi soon after Chandradeva's reign. The writings of the Muslim chroniclers such as Ali ibn al-Athir, Minhaj-i-Siraj, and Hasan Nizami consistently describe the Jayachandra as the \"Rai of Banaras\" (ruler of Varanasi), and make no reference to Kannauj (Kanyakubja) in their description of the Gahadavalas. This further suggests that the Gahadavalas no longer controlled Kanyakaubja by Jayachandra's time.\n\nBy the last quarter of the 11th century, the north-central India was a troubled territory as a result of Ghaznavid raids and the lack of a strong imperial power. The Gurjara-Pratihara empire had ceased to exist. Their successors, such as the Paramaras and the Kalachuris, had declined in power. In these times of chaos, the first Gahadavala king Chandradeva brought stability to the region by establishing a strong government. The 1104 CE Bashai (or Basahi) inscription of his son Madanapala declares that he saved the distressed earth after the deaths of the Paramara Bhoja and the Kalachuri Karna.\n\nSince the Kalachuris controlled the area around Varanasi before the Gahadavalas, it appears that Chandradeva captured this territory from them. The Kalachuri king defeated by him was probably Karna's successor Yashah-Karna. Chandradeva's inscriptions indicate that he also tried to expand his kingdom in the east, but the Pala chronicle \"Ramacharitam\" suggests that his plan was foiled by Ramapala's feudatory Bhimayashas.\n\nChandradeva was succeeded by Madanapala, who faced invasions from the Muslim Ghaznavid dynasty. He is identified with \"Malhi\", who was the king of Kannauj (Kanyakubja) according to the medieval Muslim chronicles. \"Diwan-i-Salman\" by the contemporary Muslim historian Salman states that Malhi was imprisoned by the Ghaznavids, and released only after the payment of a ransom. The Gahadavala inscriptions indicate that Madanapala's son Govindachandra led the military expeditions during his reign. As a result of these expeditions, the Ghaznavids were forced to conclude a peace treaty with the Gahadavalas. The \"Kṛtya-Kalpataru\", written by his courtier Lakashidhara, suggests that he also killed a Ghaznavid general.\nGovindachandra succeeded his father as the Gahadavala king sometime during 1109-1114 CE. The Gahadavalas became the most prominent power of northern India as a result of his military conquests and diplomatic relations. His adoption of the Kalachuri titles and coinage indicate that he defeated a Kalachuri king, probably Yashah-Karna or his successor Gaya-Karna.\n\nAs a prince, Govindachandra appears to have repulsed a Pala invasion, sometime before 1109 CE. The Pala-Gahadavala conflict halted for a few decades as a result of his marriage with Kumaradevi, a relative of the Pala monarch Ramapala. Epigraphic evidence suggests that there was a revival of the Pala-Gahadavala rivalry in the 1140s CE, during the reign of Govindachandra and the Pala monarch Madanapala (not to be confused with Govindachandra's father). Although the identity of the aggressor is not certain, the conflict seems to have happened over control of present-day western Bihar. Both Pala and Gahadavala inscriptions were issued in this area during this period.\n\nThe last extant inscription of Govindachandra is dated 1154 CE, and the earliest available inscription of his successor Vijayachandra is dated 1168 CE. Such a long gap is unusual for the dynasty, and may indicate troubled times arising out of an external invasion or a war of succession after Govindachandra's death. Vijayachandra faced a Ghaznavid invasion, which he seems to have repulsed sometime before 1164 CE. His focus on guarding the western frontiers against the Ghaznavids may have led to the neglect of the kingdom's eastern border, which later resulted in a Sena invasion.\n\nJayachandra, the last powerful king of the dynasty, faced a Ghurid invasion led by Qutb al-Din Aibak. He was defeated and killed at the Battle of Chandawar in 1194 CE. According to the contemporary Muslim historian Hasan Nizami, the Ghurids then sacked Varanasi, where they destroyed a number of temples. After Jayachandra's death, several local feudatory chiefs offered their allegiance to the Ghurids. A legendary account in \"Prithviraj Raso\" states that Jayachandra allied with the Ghurids against Prithviraj Chauhan, who had eloped with his daughter Samyukta. However, such legends are not supported by historical evidence.\n\nJayachandra's son Harishchandra succeeded him on the Gahadavala throne. According to one theory, he was a Ghurid vassal. However, in an 1197 CE Kotwa inscription, he assumes the titles of a sovereign. According to historian Roma Niyogi, it is possible that he controlled Kanyakubja, as no contemporary Muslim historians mention that the Ghurids captured the city at that time. Firishta (16th century) was the earliest writer to claim that the Muslims captured Kannauj in the 1190s, but his account can be ignored as inaccurate because he flourished around four centuries later, in the 16th century. Harishchandra may have also retained Varanasi.\n\nMeanwhile, the control of the region around Etawah appears to have been usurped by Jayachandra nephew Ajayasimha. The 13th century chronicler Minhaj al-Siraj Juzjani refers to a victory achieved by the Delhi Sultanate ruler Iltutmish (r. 1211-1236) at Chandawar; Ajayasimha was probably Iltutmish's enemy in this battle.\n\nThe ultimate fate of Harishchandra is not known, but he was probably defeated by the Delhi Sultanate under Iltutmish. A 1237 inscription issued during the reign of one Adakkamalla of Gahadavala family was found in Nagod State (present-day Satna district of Madhya Pradesh). Adakkamalla may have been the successor of Harishchandra. Another possibility is that Adakkamalla was from a different branch of the family that ruled a small fief. Nothing is known about Adakkamalla's successors.\n\nIn the medieval period, the Gahadavalas were anachronistically classified as one of the Rajput clans, although the Rajput identity did not exist during their time.\n\nThe bardic chronicles of Rajputana claim that the Rathore rulers of Jodhpur State descended from the family of the Gahadavala ruler Jayachandra. For example, according to \"Prithviraj Raso\", \"Rathore\" was an epithet of Jayachandra (Jaichand). The rulers of the Manda feudal estate, who described themselves as Rathore, traced their ancestry to Jayachandra's alleged brother Manikyachandra (Manik Chand). These claims are of later origin, and their historical veracity is doubtful.\n\nA Muslim account claims that the Bundelas were descendants of Gaharwar Rajput (Gahadavala) men from Khangar concubines. The rulers of Bijaipur-Kantit feudal estate near Mirzapur also described themselves as Gahrwars, and claimed descent from the Gahadavalas.\n\nThe Gahadavalas controlled their territory through semi-independent feudatory chiefs, whose various titles included \"Rāṇaka\", \"Mahānāyaka\", \"Mahārāja\" and \"Rāja\".\n\nThe king's officials were known as \"amātyas\". Their duties are described in Lakshmidhara's \"Kṛtya-Kalpataru\". The most important court positions included:\n\nThe \"yuvaraja\" (heir apparent) and other princes announced grants in their own name, while the grants made by the queens were announced by the king.\n\nThe territory directly ruled by the Gahadavala monarch was sub-divided into several administrative divisions:\n\nAccording to the Gahadavala inscriptions, Govindachandra appreciated and patronized different branches of learning (as indicated by his title \"Vividha-vidya-vichara-vachaspati\"). His courtier Lakshmidhara composed \"Kṛtya-Kalpataru\" at the king's request.\n\nVijayachandra also patronized scholars and poets including Shriharsha, whose works include \"Naishadha Charita\" and the now-lost \"Shri-Vijaya-Prashasti\". Jayachandra's court poet Bhatta Kedar wrote a eulogy titled \"Jaichand Prakash\" (c. 1168) on his life, but the work is now lost. Another lost eulogy on his life is the poet Madhukar's \"Jaya-Mayank-Jasha-Chandrika\" (c. 1183).\n\nThe Gahadavala kings worshipped Vishnu. For example, according to the 1167 CE Kamauli inscription, Jayachandra was initiated as a worshipper of Krishna (an incarnation of Vishnu) as a prince. The kings also offered homage to other Hindu gods, including Shiva and Surya. The Gahadvala inscriptions describe the kings as \"Parama-Maheshvara\" (\"devotees of Shiva\").\n\nThe Gahadavalas were also tolerant towards Buddhism. Two of Govindachandra's queens — Kumaradevi and Vasantadevi — were Buddhists. An inscription discovered at Bodh Gaya suggests that Jayachandra also showed interest in Buddhism. This inscription begins with an invocation to Gautam Buddha, the Bodhisattavas, and one Shrimitra (Śrimītra). Shrimitra is named as a perceptor (\"diksha-guru\") of Kashisha Jayachchandra, identified with the king Jayachandra. The inscription records the construction of a \"guha\" (cave monastery) at Jayapura.\n\nThe Gahadavala inscriptions mention a tax called \"Turushka-danda\" (\"Turkic punishment\"). Some scholars, such as Sten Konow, theorized that this was a tax imposed on \"Turushka\"s (Muslim Turkic people), which implies that the Gahadavalas persecuted the Muslims. However, other scholars have interpreted it as a contribution towards a tribute to be paid to the \"Turushka\"s (Ghaznavids), or towards war expenses involving \"Turushka\" enemies.\n\n\nAdakkamalla, attested by a 1237 CE inscription, may have been the successor of Harishchandra. But this cannot be said with certainty.\n\n"}
{"id": "2248250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248250", "title": "Catalog 3", "text": "Catalog 3\n\nCatalog 3 is an album by the Scottish duo Boards of Canada. Currently, it is the earliest known recording by the group. The album was originally released only as a cassette in 1987. While this release is not currently available to the general public, album artwork and the track listing for \"Catalog 3\" were once available from Boards of Canada's official website. It has since been taken down.\n\n"}
{"id": "2248253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248253", "title": "Negligence in employment", "text": "Negligence in employment\n\nNegligence in employment encompasses several causes of action in tort law that arise where an employer is held liable for the tortious acts of an employee because that employer was negligent in providing the employee with the ability to engage in a particular act. Four basic causes of action may arise from such a scenario: negligent hiring, negligent retention, negligent supervision and negligent training. While negligence in employment may overlap with negligent entrustment and vicarious liability, the concepts are distinct grounds of liability.\n\nAs with all negligence claims, the claimant must prove four elements:\n\nIn order for such a duty to exist, the injury to the claimant must be \"reasonably foreseeable\", meaning, for example, that the type of employment must be one in which an unfit employee could cause harm of the type which occurred, and the claimant is the type of person to whom such harm would be a \"reasonably foreseeable consequence\".\n\nNegligent hiring may be found where the employee (the tortfeasor) had a reputation or record that showed his/her propensity to misuse the kind of authority given by the employer, and this record would have been easily discoverable by the employer, had the employer exercised 'due diligence'. For example, a victim of sexual harassment in the workplace may have a cause of action for negligent hiring on the part of her employer if she can show that the employer was aware of the harasser's termination from a previous position for the same behaviour.\n\nIn the sexual harassment example described above, the employer may be held liable for negligent hiring if the harasser had a previous history of harassment. This is because an employer has an obligation to its employees and others who will come in contact with them to provide a safe and productive working environment.\n\nOne preventive measure for negligent hiring is to perform a reasonable investigation on potential employees. This may include conducting interviews, verifying work and educational histories, checking references and conducting a background check on all applicants who have accepted an offer of conditional hire, and if an adverse assessment is found, to deny employment to such an applicant.\n\nNote that simply conducting a criminal background check on an applicant may not be a sufficient investigation. In Minnesota, for example, such a check was determined to be insufficient by the court in \"Ponticas v. K.M.S. Investments,\" 331 N.W.2d 907 (Minn. 1983). This will not guarantee the employer will not be held liable, but it will show that the employer used a diligent search to screen potential harassers from the workplace, and will assist the employer in demonstrating that it took reasonable care in hiring.\nIt is important to also note that, in the United States, background checks for job applicants are subject to the Fair Credit Reporting Act (2003). If an adverse assessment is found in an employment screen, the applicant has the right to dispute the report.\n\nThe majority of credible empirical research indicates that, likely due to employer concerns regarding negligent hiring liability, a criminal record has a significant negative effect on the hiring outcomes of ex-offenders.\n\nNegligent retention occurs where a party failed to remove an employee from a position of authority or responsibility after it became apparent that the employee was in fact misusing that authority or responsibility in a way that posed a danger to others.\n\nNegligent supervision is closely related, as it occurs where a party fails to reasonably monitor or control the actions of an employee. A variation of negligent retention or supervision is negligent training, which arises where the employer's training of the employee fails to prevent the employee from engaging in the acts that injure the claimant, or fails to remediate a pattern of behaviour which leads to an injury. Suits for negligent retention often plead negligent supervision or training as an alternate theory, as the employer who knows of an employee's improper conduct should either terminate that employee, or take steps to penalise that conduct and/or train the employee not to engage in that conduct.\n\nNegligent entrustment arises where the entrustor is held liable for negligence because they negligently provided the entrustee with a dangerous instrument, and the entrusted party caused injury to a third party with that instrument. \nWhere such a claim is brought against an employer, the employer will be held liable if the entrustee's record was known, or would have been easily discoverable, to the employer. For example, if a bus company hires a driver who has a record of reckless driving, of which the company could have learned through a search of publicly available records, the company would be liable for the negligent entrustment of the bus to that driver, should the driver cause an accident.\n\nNegligent entrustment differs from negligent hiring, retention, supervision, and training in two key respects. \n\nVicarious liability is a separate theory of liability, which provides that an employer is liable for the torts of an employee under an agency theory, even if the employer did nothing wrong. The principle is that the acts of an agent of the company are assumed, by law, to be the acts of the company itself, provided the tortfeasor was acting within the course of his employment.\n\nBy contrast, each of the above negligence theories requires proof of actual negligence on part of the employer \"before\" the injury occurred, for example when the employee was first hired.\n"}
{"id": "2248261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248261", "title": "Arauz", "text": "Arauz\n\nArauz or Araúz is a surname of Basque origin. Notable persons with that name include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2248265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248265", "title": "Airwork", "text": "Airwork\n\nAirwork is an aviation business based in Auckland, New Zealand. The Airwork Group is New Zealand's largest general aviation company. It focuses on fixed wing and helicopter maintenance, leasing, and operations working with private and public entities on aviation operations, with a fleet of helicopters and 737 freighters.\n\nIt operates freight services in Australia for Toll Priority and Pacific Air Express. It operates night postal services for New Zealand Post and Freightways through a joint venture agreement. Its main fixed wing base is Auckland Airport, with helicopter operations at Ardmore Airport and Queenstown Airport in New Zealand. The Australian freighter fleet has its headquarters at Brisbane Airport, with operational bases in Perth, Adelaide, Melbourne, and Darwin.\n\nThe Airwork group is one of New Zealand's oldest aviation companies. Airwork was first established in 1936 by aircraft engineers Charles and Arthur (Bill) Brazier as an aircraft maintenance company originally assembling Tiger Moth biplanes at Rongatai Airfield. As the industry developed, Airwork moved into the engine overhaul business and in the 1970s became a listed company in which Brierley Investments built up a substantial shareholding. The business was purchased in 1984 by Hugh Jones and Alan Hubbard, and in 1988 Hugh Jones took control of the whole business.\n\nAirwork Holdings Limited was listed on the New Zealand Stock Exchange (NZX) in 2013 with the code AWK at an IPO price of $2.60 per share. Airwork's profit has increased 52% in the year ending 30 June 2014. In October 2016, Chinese Zhejiang Rifa Holding Group offered $5.40 per share for 75 percent of the business. The offer closed in early March 2017 with 94.7 percent shareholder acceptance. On 27 September 2017, Rifa Jair Company, a unit of Zhejian Rifa Holding group Co, made a full takeover offer for all fully paid ordinary shares of Airwork Holdings at a 21 percent premium to the closing price on 26 September 2017. \nIn January 2020 Airwork began services across the Tasman with the start of Auckland to Sydney flying in conjunction with Fedex.\n\nAs of January 2020 the Airwork fleet consists of the following aircraft:\n\nIn addition to the aircraft above, Airwork owns 29 Helicopters.\n\nAs at Jan 2020 the Airwork fleet consists of the following aircraft:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2248268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248268", "title": "Hanford Reach", "text": "Hanford Reach\n\nThe Hanford Reach is a free-flowing section of the Columbia River, around long, in eastern Washington state. It is named after a large northward bend in the river's otherwise southbound course. \n\nHanford Reach is the only section of the Columbia in the United States that is not tidal nor part of a reservoir, excluding a short reach between the Canada–United States border and the upper end of Franklin D. Roosevelt Lake, the reservoir of Grand Coulee Dam. Much of the Hanford Reach flows through the Hanford Site, a nuclear production facility established during World War II. It is also the site of the Hanford Reach National Monument, created from the original protection area around the Hanford Site. Upstream of the Hanford Reach is Priest Rapids Dam and downstream is the McNary Dam, which also impounds the last stretch of the Snake River, the largest tributary of the Columbia.\n\nThe Hanford Reach includes the still extant Coyote Rapids and supports over forty species of fish including significant numbers of spawning fall chinook salmon\n\n"}
{"id": "2248271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248271", "title": "Tire bead", "text": "Tire bead\n\nTire bead is the term for the edge of a tire that sits on the wheel. Wheels for automobiles, bicycles, etc. are made with a small slot or groove into which the tire bead sits. When the tire is properly inflated, the air pressure within the tire keeps the bead in this groove.\n\nIt is common amongst drivers of off-road vehicles to decrease the air pressure in their tires. This makes the tread of the tire spread out, creating more surface area for the tire's tread to grip the terrain. If the pressure is too low, there may not be enough pressure to keep the bead on the wheel, thus causing the bead to pop off the wheel; this is often referred to as \"losing a bead\". Beadlocks, which clamp the bead on the wheel, are often used in this case.\n\nOften, the bead can become frozen to the rim after rusting occurs, requiring the use of a bead breaker.\n"}
{"id": "2248281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248281", "title": "Nouvel Catholic Central High School", "text": "Nouvel Catholic Central High School\n\nNouvel Catholic Central High School is a private, Catholic high school located in Saginaw Charter Township, Michigan and serving the Saginaw region. Nouvel is a high school that enrolls approximately 283 students. The school was formed in 1984 as a consolidation of the three then-remaining Saginaw area Catholic high schools, Saints Peter and Paul, Saint Stephen's, and Saint Mary's Cathedral High Schools.\n\nPrior to the existence of Nouvel Catholic Central High School and Saints Peter and Paul Area High School, the school building, which also houses the offices of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Saginaw, was the Saint Paul Seminary. That name is still inscribed in marble above the front door of Nouvel High School.\n\nThe school is named for Father Henri Nouvel, a 17th-century French Jesuit missionary who is locally recognized as the first European to have visited the Saginaw River Valley region. A monument recognizing Fr. Nouvel and his contributions sits on Ojibway Island in the City of Saginaw, and a local council of the Knights of Columbus established in Father Nouvel's name have their meeting hall located nearby.\n\n- 98% of graduates are college bound\n- Average ACT score above state and national average\n- Over 73% of Nouvel students have a GPA of 2.0 or better.\n\nBrian d'Arcy James, a 1986 graduate, is an American actor and musician.\n\n- Teachings of Catholic Church open to all\n- Building discipleship by serving the community through East Side Soup Kitchen,\nSpecial Olympics, Glenmary Mission Retreat, and more\n- Applying Christian values to life decisions\n\n- Over 90% of students participate in extra-curricular activities\n- Choirs include honors, madrigals, and chimes\n- Band\n- 18 sports programs\n- Biannual theater productions\n- Organizations and clubs including SADD, Teens for Life, Science Olympiad, Quiz Bowl\n\n- A steel drum band was recently added as of 2011\n\nSaginaw's Nouvel Catholic Central has been recognized as one of the top 50 Catholic high schools in the nation\n\nThe honor comes from the Catholic High School Honor Roll, which measures academic excellence, Catholic identity and civic education.\n\nThe Nouvel Panthers compete as Independents during the regular season. Although the school has enjoyed a fair amount of athletic success, the 2006-2007 school year was arguably the school's most notable in athletic achievement. The Nouvel Football and Girls Basketball teams won State Championships, and in doing so became the first school in MHSAA history to have both teams go undefeated in the same season. The same year, Nouvel finished as State Runner-Up in Boys Basketball and a State Semifinalist in Baseball.\n\nIn the record-breaking 2007-2008 year:\nThe Nouvel Varsity Pom Pon team won their very first Class C State Title. The Nouvel boys won a second straight MHSAA Division 6 state championship in football.The Nouvel Girls Varsity Basketball team also won back to back state championships in Class C. This marks the first time in Michigan High School sports history that a school's boys football team and girls basketball team have won state titles in consecutive years.\n\nIn 2009, Jenny Ryan was named Miss Basketball, this marks the first time in MHSAA history that two people from the same school were named Miss Basketball. Danielle Kamm was named Miss Basketball in 2002 - 2003 season.\n\nIn 2011, the Nouvel Boys Varsity football team repeated as State Champions for a third time, winning the Division 7 title in a 56-26 victory. The Panthers set a state record for most points scored in a state finals football game. Running back Bennett Lewis tied the state record for scoring, with five touchdowns to his credit in the game.\n\nIn 2013, the Nouvel Varsity Pom Pon team won their second Class C State Title.\n\nBlair White, a stand-out wide receiver for the Panthers from 2000–2004, signed with the Indianapolis Colts following the 2010 NFL Draft. White was a walk-on at Michigan State University and was named the Big Ten Wide Receiver of the Year in 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "2248284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248284", "title": "Effluent", "text": "Effluent\n\nEffluent is an outflowing of water or gas to a natural body of water, from a structure such as a wastewater treatment plant, sewer pipe, or industrial outfall. Effluent, in engineering, is the stream exiting a chemical reactor.\n\nEffluent is defined by the United States Environmental Protection Agency as \"wastewater - treated or untreated - that flows out of a treatment plant, sewer, or industrial outfall. Generally refers to wastes discharged into surface waters\". The Compact Oxford English Dictionary defines effluent as \"liquid waste or sewage discharged into a river or the sea\".\n\nEffluent in the artificial sense is in general considered to be water pollution, such as the outflow from a sewage treatment facility or the wastewater discharge from industrial facilities. An effluent sump pump, for instance, pumps waste from toilets installed below a main sewage line.\n\nIn the context of waste water treatment plants, effluent that has been treated is sometimes called \"secondary effluent\", or \"treated effluent\". This cleaner effluent is then used to feed the bacteria in biofilters.\n\nIn the context of a thermal power station, the output of the cooling system may be referred to as the effluent cooling water, which is noticeably warmer than the environment. Effluent only refers to liquid discharge.\n\nIn sugar beet processing, effluent is often settled in water tanks that allow the mud-contaminated water to settle. The mud sinks to the bottom, leaving the top section of water clear, free to be pumped back into the river or be reused in the process again.\n\n"}
{"id": "2248289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248289", "title": "Salomon de Caus", "text": "Salomon de Caus\n\nSalomon de Caus (1576, Dieppe – 1626, Paris) was a French Huguenot engineer, once (falsely) credited with the development of the steam engine.\n\nCaus was the elder brother of Isaac de Caus. Being a Huguenot, Caus spent his life moving across Europe.\n\nHe worked as an hydraulic engineer and architect under Louis XIII. Caus also designed gardens in England, that of Somerset House among them; also, the Hortus Palatinus, or Garden of the Palatinate, in Heidelberg, Germany.\n\nIn 1615, he published a book showing a steam-driven pump similar to one developed by Giovanni Battista della Porta fourteen years earlier. Nevertheless, François Arago called him the inventor of the steam engine as a result.\n\nIn this same book, \"Les Raisons des forces mouvantes\", Caus presents a well-known just-intonation scale, now known as the Ellis Duodene, after Alexander John Ellis who reinvented it. It is to Caus that the term \"work\" is owed in the sense that it is used in the field of mechanics.\nDe Caus received a gift of £50 from James VI and I in 1614, and had a pension of £100 from Prince Henry in 1610.\n\n"}
{"id": "2248292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248292", "title": "Conímbriga", "text": "Conímbriga\n\nConímbriga is one of the largest Roman settlements excavated in Portugal, and was classified as a National Monument in 1910. Located in the civil parish of Condeixa-a-Velha e Condeixa-a-Nova, in the municipality of Condeixa-a-Nova, it is situated from the municipal seat and from Coimbra (the Roman town of Aeminium).\n\nConímbriga is a walled urban settlement, encircled by a curtain of stone structures approximately long. Entrance to the settlement is made from vaulted structures consisting of two doors (one on hinges), at one time defended by two towers. The walls are paralleled by two passages, channelled to excavations, that remove water infiltration from the walls. The urban settlement consists of various structures, including a forum, basilica and commercial shops, thermal spas, aqueducts, insulae, homes of various heights (including interior patios) and domus (such as the \"Casa dos Repuxos\" and \"Casa de Cantaber\"), in addition to a paleo-Christian basilica.\n\nA visitors' centre (which includes restaurant/café and gift-shop) was constructed to display objects found by archaeologists during their excavations, including coins, surgical tools, utensils and ceramics.\n\nLike many archaeological sites, Conímbriga was evolved sequentially and built up by successive layers, with the primary period of occupation beginning in the 9th century BCE; during this period the area was occupied by the Castro culture. Before the Roman occupation, the Conii peoples (who would later settle in southern Portugal) lived here. The Conímbriga designation came from \"conim\", used by indigenous peoples to designate \"the place of rocky eminence,\" and \"briga\", the Celtic suffix meaning \"citadel\". This site had become a junction between the road that linked Olisipo to Bracara Augusta, by way of Aeminium (Coimbra).\n\nAround 139 BC, Romans began arriving in the area, as a consequence of the expeditionary campaigns of Decimus Junius Brutus. At the time, Conímbriga was already a built-up settlement. The Romans introduced the formal organization of space to the settlement. Owing to the peaceful nature of rural Lusitania, Romanisation of the indigenous population was quick, and Conímbriga became a prosperous town.\n\nBetween 69 and 79 AD, during the reign of Vespasian, Conímbriga was elevated to the status of \"municipium\". At that time, new urban programs were initiated. Judging by the capacity of the amphitheatre, by this time, the city had an estimated population of approximately 10,600. Many of the new colonists (such as the Lucanus, Murrius, Vitellius and Aponia families) came from the Italian peninsula and intermarried with local inhabitants (such as the Turrania, Valeria, Alios and Maelo families).\n\nConstruction of the \"Casa dos Repuxos\" began in the 2nd century, likely over a pre-existing structure. At the end of the 3rd century, the Augustian walls were replaced by the existing structures. In addition there was a remodelling of the baths and construction of a majority of the larger homes of the town, culminating in the construction of the paleo-Christian basilica in the 4th century.\n\nBetween 465 and 468, invasions by Sueves caused the destruction of the city, and its inhabitants dispersed, some into slavery.\n\nThe bishopric of Conímbriga was established between 561 and 572, under the direction of Lucêncio, its first bishop. By 589, Conímbriga ceased to be the episcopal seat, as this was transferred to Aeminium, which later became Coimbra.\n\nDuring the reign of King Manuel (1519), the king ordered the inscriptions on the facade of the Church of Condeixa-a-Nova.\n\nIn the 18th century, Conímbriga was first referred to in parochial documents, resulting in the 1869 visit by Hubner to the site. In 1873, the \"Instituto de Coimbra\" (Coimbra Institute) was created, in addition to the formation of a museum dedicated to archaeology, instigating the first formal excavations at Conímbriga in 1873. Mosaics were removed from the uncovered homes and the first excavations were made in 1899, resulting in the plan for the oppidum.\n\nIn 1911, the Coimbra Institute ceded its collection to the Museum Machado de Castro, resulting in the beginnings of the studies by Augusto Filipe Simões and António Augusto Gonçalves.\n\nOn the occasion of the 11th International Congress on Archaeology and Pre-History (1930) in Portugal, the state acquired the first lands and official excavations on the site. At the time of this congress the eastern gates to the city were unobstructed. The following year the DGEMN started the work of reconstructing and consolidating the ruins, which were continued in 1955.\n\nIn 1956, there were archaeological studies of \"Oppidum Romano\", by the \"Serviços dos Monumentos Nacionais\" (National Monument Service). New excavations occurred in 1964.\n\nIn 1962, the \"Museu Monográfico de Conímbriga\" (\"Conímbriga Monographic Museum\") was inaugurated. It was followed in 1964 by the collaboration between this museum and the archaeological mission from the University of Bordeaux: under the direction of J. Bairrão Oleiro, Robert Étienne and Jorge de Alarcão, the centre of the Roman city was unearthed.\n\nIn 1970, the work with the mosaics was consolidated, at a time when the monograph museum was expanded (with a basement, installations for a guard and interior shelter). But, throughout the transition to Portuguese democracy and beyond, the team at Conímbriga attempted to consolidate and maintain the site. The early work continued into 1974, with the consolidation, restoration and expansion of the museum and 1975, with the prospecting into other zones, the paving of walkways, landscaping and solutions to drainage issues. In 1976, the gazebo and interior of the older Monographic Museum was repaired. These repairs continued into 1977, with expansion of the museum, restoration of the facades, the old portico and the colonnade was transformed into an internal gallery, the arrangement of the principal atrium and creating a gutters to alleviate pedestrian walkways. The following year began the construction of a ticket booth in cement and glass, while in 1979 an electrical transformer and litter incineration unit were installed. The installation of electrical devices, illumination and climate control units in the museum occurred between 1981 and 1982. In 1986 a new awning was installed to cover the \"Casa dos Repuxos\".\n\nThe first permanent public exposition was opened in April 1985.\n\nDuring the 1990s, there were projects to remodel the museum and upgrade the displays and various installations to support visitors, under the direction of Cruz Alarcão, Arquitectos Lda. They were re-contracted in 2004–2005 to improve the site, including the reconstruction of the Augustian forum and southern thermal spas, and construction of a small structure for spectacles (consisting of a roadway, stage and bunks molded to the terrain) alongside the aqueduct.\n\nOn 9 August 1991, the museum became part of the \"Instituto Português de Museus\" (Portuguese Institute for Museums), leading to the 1 June 1992 transfer to the \"Instituto Português do Património Arquitetónico\" (IPPAR), and then on 29 March 2007 to the \"Instituto dos Museus e Conservação\" (Institute for Museums and Conservation).\n\nThe excavation site and visitors' centre are located on the outskirts of the rural community of Condeixa-a-Nova, based on a plateau-shaped triangular spur over two deep depressions (one occupied by the Ribeira dos Mouros).\n\nAlthough Conimbriga was not the largest Roman city in Portugal, it is the best preserved, with archaeologists estimating that only 10 percent of the city has been excavated.\n\nThe urbanized civitas includes integrated structures starting from the Iron Age and extending to the 5th century. There were specifically three phases of spatial organization: from the 1st century BC, under the reign of Augustus, a late Republican forum (which included a crypto-portico, basilica, curia and commercial shops), thermal baths, an aqueduct and pre-Roman residential buildings; a 1st-century AD group, established under Flavius, that included a reconstructed Imperial forum, Vitruvian baths and a revised urban plan; and a 3rd-century settlement that fell within revised walls.\n\nThe civil and residential buildings included numerous examples of remodeled and reused structures dating from the first century BC. Most of these homes were insulae (houses with more than one floor), with open patios or courtyards, and domus (such as the \"Casa dos Repuxos\" and \"Casa de Cantaber\") with peristyles. Most of the private and public buildings featured abundant decorative materials, including mosaics, sculptures and painted murals.\n\nThere are three distinct baths within the walls: the Great Southern Baths, the Baths of the Wall, and the Baths of the Aqueduct. The network of stone heating ducts under the (now-missing) floors is the most distinct feature of the Roman baths.\n\nThe amphitheatre, dating from the end of the Julio-Claudian dynasty, takes advantage of a natural depression that surrounded the city to the north. It was identified in 1993 by Virgílio H. Correia, and excavations began in 2012–2013. Part of the amphitheatre, consisting of three entryways, was located below local homes in Condeixa-a-Nova. The 5000-person-capacity theatre was , and underground. Some rural homes on the site were built using part of the structure.\n\nThe robust, rustic construction of the city walls suggests that they were built in a hurry. They consist of large, carved, irregular blocks, with most coming from other buildings. The height of the walls varies from to .\n\nDating from the Suebic occupation, there is a paleo-Christian basilica (5th–6th century), which was a reused and transformed domus.\n\nThe Luso-French mission (1965–1968) unearthed public structures of great dimensions, whose architecture they reconstructed. Because the city was built in successive phases, early structures that were later modified or replaced cannot be reconstructed with certainty. These Flavian monuments coincide with the location of some important elements, such as the central square.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2248295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248295", "title": "Ditech", "text": "Ditech\n\nDitech Financial LLC (rebranded from “ditech Mortgage” and \"Green Tree Servicing\" in 2015) is a provider of home loan, loan servicing and refinance products to consumers and institutional partners in the U.S.\n\nIn May 2014, Ditech announced its re-entry to the national housing market after it “disappeared” from the marketplace for five years during the subprime mortgage crisis in the late 2000s. It also announced a corporate re-branding with its servicing affiliate, Green Tree Servicing, which took place in 2015.\n\nIn 1995, John Paul Reddam founded DiTech Funding Corporation (DiTech) in Costa Mesa, California. The company's name was derived from the phrase “direct technology.” DiTech became one of the first lenders to offer mortgages to the public online and via a toll-free number. In April 1995, Reddam began originating, selling, and servicing mortgage loans tied to the prime interest rate. Reddam's business model quickly extended DiTech's operating territory to seven states by the end of the 1995, and 46 states by the end of 1996. DiTech's rapid growth was fueled in part by an aggressive marketing campaign that included a national television commercial featuring a frustrated loan officer who would mutter, \"Lost another loan to DiTech,\" after losing business to the company. DiTech became a household name as a result of the commercials.\n\nIn 1999, DiTech was acquired by GMAC (now Ally Financial), then owned by General Motors. GMAC Mortgage renamed DiTech “ditech.com.” Reddam left the company in 2000.\n\nIn 2005, DiTech was organized as a business unit of Residential Capital, LLC (often referred to as \"ResCap\"), which controlled mortgage-related subsidiaries owned by General Motors Corporation.\n\nDitech pioneered 125 percent loans that allowed mortgage loan applicants to borrow more than properties were worth. The loans were also low-documentation mortgages, or stated income loans, and many borrowers falsified their incomes. In 2006, ditech.com general manager Michael McCarthy resigned and was replaced by Richard D. Powers.\n\nPowers introduced \"People Are Smart,\" an advertising campaign that leveraged GMAC's reputation as a responsible lender and stressed the importance of making prudent decisions based on expert advice provided by ditech.com loan consultants.\n\nIn February 2010, GMAC relocated ditech.com offices from Costa Mesa to Fort Washington, PA. In May 2010, GMAC changed its name to Ally Financial.\n\nIn 2012, during the mortgage crisis, Ally took its residential lending unit into bankruptcy in order to pay back the U.S. Treasury following its acceptance of bailout funds. In November 2012, Ditech was formed from assets of the estate of GMAC ResCap during the bankruptcy proceeding.\n\nIn March 2013, Ditech was acquired by Walter Investment Management Co. from Ally Financial, the former GMAC ResCap. Following the acquisition, Ditech used the name of Walter's Green Tree Servicing subsidiary to originate loans for regulatory and licensing reasons. DT Holdings, Ditech's parent company, is a subsidiary of Walter Investment Management.\n\nIn March 2014, the company resumed originating loans using the Ditech name. The brand had effectively “disappeared” from the marketplace for five years during the mortgage crisis, and the company decided to bring Ditech name back after determining that consumers held largely positive views of the brand. In May 2014, Ditech announced its re-entry to the U.S. housing market.\n\nIn March 2015, Ditech, along with Walter Investment affiliate Green Tree Servicing, announced the two would undergo a co-branding effort to become \"Ditech Financial, A Walter Company,\" bringing Walter's origination and servicing entities together under one, recognizable brand name. The transition concluded in the second half of 2015.\n\nDitech offers a range of home loan and refinance options. Home loan options include fixed rate, adjustable rate and FHA loans. Refinancing options include fixed rate, adjustable rate and FHA loans, as well as special financing programs such as HARP with expanded loan-to-value limits for qualified applicants. The company will no longer provide nonprime mortgages.\n\nIn May 2014, Ditech launched a co-branding and joint-venture initiative with more than 600 institutional partners that provide mortgage and refinance loans to their customers. The strategy encompasses direct consumer lending and correspondent lending. Institutional partners can price, lock and deliver individual loans through the Ditech website.\n\nAlso in May 2014, Ditech announced new correspondent banking products and services including MyCommunityMortgage, FHA Program, Expanded LMPI, and Freddie Only. In June 2014, Ditech's correspondent lending division began focusing on services for community banks and credit unions, offering their customers access to Ditech's technology, underwriting, processing, servicing and marketing expertise.\n\nDitech is well known for television commercials that aired during the 2000s. They featured a nefarious loan officer, played by actor Ron Michaelson, repeating the catchphrase \"\"Lost another loan to Ditech\"\" written by writer, producer and director Ken Roberts, who created the Ditech television and radio commercials from 1995 to 2007. In May 2007, the company introduced a new marketing campaign, adding the tagline \"People Are Smart\" and including the signature line \"Home financing by GMAC\" to further help distinguish the Ditech brand from direct-to-consumer lenders of questionable repute. Ditech had immensely high unaided brand awareness and customer satisfaction, but many people mistakenly thought Ditech was a subprime lender.\n\nOn September 11, 2001 in the U.S., a Ditech commercial was airing on CNN when it was interrupted for an announcement that a plane had struck one of the Twin Towers of the World Trade Center in New York City. This would begin CNN's ongoing live footage of the September 11 attacks.\n\nDitech held a sponsorship in the NASCAR Nextel Cup Series from 2004–07, prominently appearing on the #25 Chevrolet driven by Brian Vickers. The company held sponsorships on Hendrick's part-time #44 car, as well as the #87 car on Busch Series level.\n\nIn 2019 Ditech was acquired by New Rez.\n\n"}
{"id": "2248298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248298", "title": "Warren Gatland", "text": "Warren Gatland\n\nWarren David Gatland (born 17 September 1963) is a New Zealand rugby union coach, formerly the head coach of Wales. Since he became coach in 2007, Wales have won four Six Nations titles, including three Grand Slams, and reached the semi-final of the 2019 and 2011 World Cup. Gatland was also head coach of the British and Irish Lions on their 2013 tour of Australia, where they won the Test series 2-1, and 2017 tour of New Zealand, when the series was drawn.\n\nHe has previously coached Connacht, Ireland, London Wasps, where he won three Premierships and the Heineken Cup, and Waikato, with whom he won the Air New Zealand Cup.\n\nAs a player, he was one of Waikato's longest-serving players, having played 140 games for the province – a record at the time.\n\nGatland was born in Hamilton, New Zealand and educated at Hamilton Boys' High School and Waikato University. He played 17 non-international matches for New Zealand, but never won an international cap. His first game as an All Black was in 1988, when he is said to have introduced a hybrid Australian Rules-Gaelic football game to the training sessions, which was well received by the other players.\n\nGatland became the record-holder of the most games for Waikato near the end of the 1994 season. He finished the season with 140 games in total and announced his retirement before the start of the 1995 season.\n\nGatland launched his coaching career as a player/coach for Taupiri in 1989, and after the All Blacks' 1989 tour, he remained in Ireland to act as a player/coach for Galwegians RFC leading them to promotion into the All-Ireland League Division 2.\n\nAfter retiring from the club in 1994, he became assistant coach to Thames Valley in New Zealand. He coached the team to promotion from the third division to the second in the National Provincial Championship. In 1996, he returned to Ireland and became the director of rugby at Connacht, leading them to the quarter-finals of the 1997–98 European Challenge Cup after twice beating Northampton Saints in the pool stages.\n\nOn 24 February 1998, after Brian Ashton resigned after round one of the 1998 Five Nations Championship, Gatland was appointed coach of Ireland. His first match in charge was against a rampant French side who had already scored over 70 points in their opening two fixtures. However, Gatland led Ireland to a close 18–16 defeat at the Stade de France in Paris. Ireland finished in last place with zero points. Gatland quickly improved Ireland's performances. This included a 29–23 victory over the Welsh in the 1999 Five Nations Championship and a 32–24 win over Argentina. Ireland had a disappointing 1999 Rugby World Cup campaign and failed to make it to the quarter finals after losing narrowly to Argentina in a play-off game 28–24.\n\nOn 19 March 2000, Ireland beat France in Paris for the first time since 1972, when a hat-trick of tries from Brian O'Driscoll led them to a 27–25 win. Ireland also beat France at Lansdowne Road in the return fixture in the 2001 Six Nations Championship. Ireland also beat Italy in a six-try romp, 60–13 in Dublin. In 2001, Gatland's last year as coach, Ireland finished the championship with the same points as winners England, losing on points difference. In the same year, Gatland's Irish team played against the touring All Blacks, losing 29–40 in Gatland's last match in charge of Ireland. He was sacked and was replaced by his assistant coach Eddie O'Sullivan. Overall, Gatland moved Ireland from eighth to sixth in the IRB World Rankings, with a 47% win rate.\n\nAfter losing his job with Ireland, he joined the coaching staff at London Wasps under Director of Rugby Nigel Melville. The team was bottom of the Premiership at this time, but Gatland helped steer them away from the relegation zone and develop one of the meanest defences in Europe. He took over as Director of Rugby when Melville left for Gloucester at the end of the 2001–02 season. Under Gatland's guidance, Wasps won three Premiership titles; in 2003, 2004 and 2005.\n\nIn Europe, Wasps won the 2002–03 European Challenge Cup, winning eight from eight matches, and beating Bath 48–30 away in the final. After qualifying for the Heineken Cup in the 2003–04 season, Wasps won the title, beating Toulouse 27–20 in the final. At the end of the 2004/2005 season, Gatland returned to New Zealand, where he was installed as coach at Waikato.\n\nOn his return to New Zealand to coach Waikato in the National Provincial Championship (NPC), he led the side to seventh in the Division 1 table. However, under the new competition format, the Air New Zealand Cup in 2006, Gatland took Waikato to the final of the 2006 Air New Zealand Cup, beating Wellington in the final 37–31, losing only one match in the run up to the knock out stages. However, in the 2007 Air New Zealand Cup, Gatland was only able to lead Waikato to the quarter-finals, losing to 38–35 to Hawke's Bay. In addition to his role as head coach of Waikato, during the off-season, he acted as technical advisor for the Chiefs Super 14 team in 2006.\n\nOn 9 November 2007, Gatland was named head coach of Wales, and took up his position on 1 December 2007.\n\nGatland's first game as coach of Wales was in the opening week of the 2008 Six Nations Championship, which was a major upset as Wales beat England 26–19 after trailing 19–6 with nearly sixty minutes played. It was Wales' first win at Twickenham since 1988. After victories over Scotland and Italy, Wales went on to defeat the Triple Crown holders Ireland at Croke Park 16–12, thus winning the Triple Crown themselves. This was the first time Wales has held this trophy since 2005. In the final round of fixtures, Wales beat France at the Millennium Stadium 29–12, to clinch their 10th Grand Slam, 100 years after they won their first. Despite being Six Nations Champions, Gatland led Wales to a 2–0 test series defeat to South Africa during the 2008 mid-year rugby union tests, losing 43–17 and 37–21. Wales then went on to lose to South Africa at home during the 2008 Autumn internationals. Their Autumn campaign saw Wales win two, lose two - the two wins being a 34–13 win over Canada and a 21–18 win over Australia. This was Wales' first win over the Wallabies since 2005.\n\nWales were unable to retain their Six Nations title in 2009, finishing fourth with just three wins; England, Italy and Scotland. Due to his commitments to the British and Irish Lions, he was unable to coach Wales to their Summer tour of North America against Canada and the United States. However, he led the team in their 2009 Autumn internationals campaign, which consisted of wins against Samoa, and Argentina, but losses to New Zealand and Australia. Wales remained fourth in the 2010 Six Nations Championship, with victories over Italy and Scotland.\n\nTheir Summer tour consisted of a 2–0 test series defeat to the All Blacks (42–9 and 29–10), and their 2010 Autumn Campaign saw Wales at best get a 16–16 draw with Fiji - losses to Australia, South Africa and New Zealand. For the third consecutive year, Wales finished fourth in the Six Nations table, but on top of their wins over Scotland and Italy, Gatland led Wales to their first victory over Ireland since 2008.\n\nGatland led Wales to fourth in the 2011 Rugby World Cup, winning three of their four Pool D matches; 17–10 win over Samoa, 81–7 win over Namibia and a record breaking 66–0 win over Fiji, their loss was a 17–16 defeat to the Springboks. Wales beat Ireland 22–10 in the quarter-final, but lost to France 9–8 in the semi-final. They lost the Bronze final to Australia 21–18 to finish fourth. This meant that Wales were ranked fourth in the world, their highest ever ranking again under Gatland, previously fourth in 2009.\n\nIn the 2012 Six Nations Championship, Gatland won a second Grand Slam in four years. However, Gatland was unable to see Wales' great form in their Summer tour of Australia, as in April 2012 Gatland broke both his heels while on holiday in New Zealand, and needed reconstructive surgery on his right heel. Initial hopes were that he would recover in time to lead Wales for their three-test tour, but on 19 April 2012 it was announced that he would not recover before the tour, and assistant coach Robert Howley took charge. Due to his success with Wales, Gatland was named Head Coach for the 2013 British and Irish Lions tour to Australia. This meant that Gatland was unable to coach Wales in their 2012 Autumn Campaign, but was allowed to coach the side against Australia and New Zealand. With Wales suffering three defeats on their summer tour, and their winless Autumn Campaign, Wales dropped to ninth in the IRB World Rankings, their lowest ever ranking and a position they had not been in since 2007.\n\nGatland returned to his post with Wales ahead of the 2013 Autumn internationals, where Wales claimed their first Autumn international win since 2009, when they beat Argentina 40–6, a record winning margin, in their second test of their campaign. Despite there being mostly Welsh players on the British and Irish Lions tour earlier that year, Wales failed to defeat Australia at home, going down 30–26 in their final match of the series. Gatland led Wales to third in the 2014 Six Nations Championship, defeating Italy 23–15 in their opening match, before they were convincingly beaten by Ireland a week later 26–3. They returned to winning ways when they beat France 27–6, however they lost to England at Twickenham to end any hopes of retaining their Championship. In their match of the Championship, Wales defeated a 14-man Scotland side, 51–3, a record winning margin. Ahead of Wales' 2014 South African tour, Wales were without key players, like Richard Hibbard, captain Sam Warburton and fullback Leigh Halfpenny. Despite this, and despite Wales' defeat in the first test 38–16, Wales were within seconds of beating South Africa in the second test, having led 17–14 at half time, with those 17 points being scored in the opening 22 minutes to lead 17–0. By the 65th minute, Wales led 30–17, but a Willie le Roux try brought South Africa within 6 points of a draw. With 2 minutes left on the clock, Wales conceded a penalty try to lose the match 31–30. Wales earned two victories during the 2014 autumn internationals, one of which came against the Springboks, 12–6. This was Wales' first victory over South Africa since 1999, and Wales' first victory over a Southern Hemisphere giant since 2008, ending a 22 match losing streak.\n\nHe was appointed Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in the 2014 Birthday Honours for services to rugby.\n\nWales were within a chance of claiming the 2015 Six Nations Championship title heading into the final week. Having beaten Scotland, France, Ireland before the closing week, Ireland, England and Wales were all even on 6 points, while France were also still in contention on 4 points. For Wales to claim the title, they needed to beat Italy by 26 points or more to get ahead of England and Ireland. They defeated Italy by 41 points, winning 61–20 scoring 8 tries. However, Ireland overtook Wales when they beat Scotland 40–10, which meant when England won 55–35, Ireland retained their 2014 title. Gatland was heavily criticised ahead of the 2015 Rugby World Cup, having played some key players in Wales' final RWC warm-up, Wales lost Leigh Halfpenny and Rhys Webb to injury. Despite many injuries before and during the World Cup, Gatland guided the team out of the \"pool of death\", with victories over Uruguay 54–9, England 28–25 and Fiji 23–13. They played South Africa in the quarter final, and with 5 minutes to go, Wales were leading 19–18, but a try to Springbok captain and scrum half Fourie du Preez, saw South Africa claim a 23–19 win.\n\nDuring the 2016 Six Nations Championship, Gatland led Wales to second with 7 points, 3 points behind victors England. The Championship started with a 16–all draw against Ireland in Dublin, before Wales went on to secure a 27–23 victory over Scotland in Cardiff. They backed up the Scottish victory with a 19–10 win over the French, before going down to England 25–21. At one point in that match, Wales were down 19–0, but scored three tries in the second half to come with in 4 points of the victory. In the final match, Wales earned their biggest winning margin in a six nations match, winning by 53 points in a 67–14 victory over Italy. In June 2016, Gatland took Wales on a three-test series against the world champions New Zealand. The All Blacks were without many of their World Cup winning side, with Dan Carter, Richie McCaw, Keven Mealamu, Ma'a Nonu and Conrad Smith all retiring. The first test saw Wales put up a convincing display, leading the World Champions 18–15 at half time. However, Wales dropped off after the 60th minute, conceding three tries to lose the game 39–21. Wales then went down to Super Rugby side the Chiefs, 40–7 in a mid-week match. In the second test, the teams were level after 40 minutes 10–all, but 26 unanswered points in the second half, including 4 tries with in 15 minutes saw the All Blacks secure the series after winning 36–22. The final test saw New Zealand clinch the series 3–0, winning 46–6.\n\nFollowing a sabbatical from Wales due to his 2017 British and Lions commitments, Gatland led Wales to 2 victories in four matches during the 2017 Autumn Internationals, defeating Georgia in the countries first ever meeting, 13–6, and South Africa 24–22. Their defeats came at the hand of Australia 29–21 and New Zealand 33–18. In the buildup to the 2018 Six Nations Championship, Gatland stated that Wales \"will win the Six Nations\". His statement was backed up after Wales convincingly beat Scotland 34–7 in the opening round, earning themselves their first ever try bonus point. The following week, despite keeping England scoreless for 60 minutes, Wales lost 12–6. In round three, Wales came within moments of stealing the game from Ireland, only losing by 3 points in over time. However, an intercept from Jacob Stockdale, saw Wales go down to Ireland 37–27, ending their chance of winning the Six Nations. In rounds 4 and 5, Wales returned to winning ways, defeating Italy 38–14 and France 14–13 to finish the Championship in second behind victors Ireland.\n\nIn June 2018, Gatland led his side to three from three victories, defeating South Africa in Washington, D.C. in a one-off test match 22–20, before securing a 2–0 series win over Argentina. The first test victory (23–10) was Wales' first win in Argentina since 2004, and with the second test victory, meant Wales won a first series over Argentina since 1999.\n\nIn the buildup to the 2019 Six Nations Championship, Gatland said that should Wales start off the campaign with a victory over France, \"we can win it given we have home games against England and Ireland.\" Down 0-16 after the first half in Paris, Wales rallied to win 24-19, and subsequent wins over Italy (26-15), England (21-13), Scotland (18-11) and Ireland (25-7) saw them win the Grand Slam, stretching their winning run to 14, breaking their previous record of 11 set in 1910, and making Gatland the first ever coach to win three Grand Slams in the Five or Six Nations era.\n\nFor the 2009 tour of South Africa, Gatland was named as assistant coach, specializing as the Forwards coach under Ian McGeechan.\n\nIn September 2012, he was appointed Lions Head Coach for the 2013 tour of Australia.\nThe Lions won the test series against Australia 2-1. He was given a 10-month contract with the Lions, taking a sabbatical from coaching Wales, although he did coach Wales against Australia and New Zealand in the 2012 Autumn internationals. Gatland promised impartial selection and said he believed that Graham Henry in 2001 picked too many Welsh players who were insufficiently good for the tour. He named Rob Howley, Graham Rowntree, Andy Farrell and Neil Jenkins as his assistants for the tour.\n\nDuring the tour, Gatland led the Lions to a 2–1 series victory over the Wallabies, the first series win since the 1997 tour of South Africa. Including the non-test matches, Gatland coached the Lions to win eight out of the ten matches played, the losses coming against Australia in the second test, and the Brumbies in a mid week match. In the first test, he named ten Welsh players in the match day-23, four Irish, eight English and one Scot. This team won the first test 23–21, following a missed penalty by Kurtley Beale post 80 minutes. His team in the second test, consisting of nine Welsh, six Irish, seven English and one Scot, lost the test in Melbourne 16–15. In the third test, Gatland was heavily criticized by the amount of Welsh players in the match day 23, at 11 players. He was criticized over the dropping of Brian O'Driscoll, not just out of the starting XV, but out of the whole match day squad. Despite this, the Lions won the final test 41–16, which was a record winning margin for the Lions against Australia.\n\nSince the 2013 tour, Warren Gatland has been very vocal over his desire to lead the Lions in 2017 against his home nation New Zealand. In December 2013 Gatland was named UK coach of the year at the 2013 UK Coaching Awards.\n\nIn March 2015 he was criticised, by former Irish international Neil Francis, who described him as having \"the intellectual capacity of a tub of Flora.\"\n\nOn 7 September 2016, Gatland was announced as Head Coach for the 2017 Lions Team.\n\nGatland this time took a full 10-month sabbatical from Wales, handing his coaching reigns to Rob Howley. Gatland wanted continuity in his coaching staff, with the only change being Steve Borthwick coming in as forwards coach, while retaining Rob Howley as attack coach and Andy Farrell as defence coach. Graham Rowntree and Neil Jenkins remained, however specializing in scrummaging and kicking. On 19 April, Gatland and his team named a 41-man squad, consisting of 16 English, 12 Welsh, 11 Irish and 2 Scottish players. His Welsh captain Sam Warburton remained as captain. Gatland was heavily criticized for the lack of Scottish players in squad, considering Scotland had beaten both Ireland and Wales during the 2017 Six Nations Championship. The criticism continued into the tour, especially after he called up 6 players to the squad on 17 June (a further 4 Welsh players) that was based purely on geography rather than skill. He was depicted as a clown in the New Zealand media after he continued to complain about \"foul\" tactics of the All Blacks.\n\nDespite all the criticism from both British and New Zealand press and fans, Gatland persisted with his style and selections and gained 4 wins in the non-test games; New Zealand Provincial Barbarians (13–7), Crusaders (12–3), Māori All Blacks (32–10) and Chiefs (34–6). In the test series, Gatland led the Lions to a single victory, winning the second test 24–21, to become the first team to beat New Zealand at home since South Africa in 2009. It was the Lions first win over the All Blacks in the professional era, with the last victory coming in 1993, coached by Ian McGeechan, 20–7. With the first test being won by the All Blacks 30–15 and the third and final test being drawn 15–15, the test series was drawn, with the draw being the first time since 1994 that the All Blacks has failed to win at Eden Park. The series was the first drawn series since their 1955 tour to South Africa.\n\nFollowing the tour, Gatland was tipped by many to be the next All Blacks head coach.\n\nOn 28 June 2019 it was announced Gatland would return home to Hamilton to coach the Chiefs on a four-year deal which would include a sabbatical in 2021 to coach the British and Irish Lions.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn 2012 Gatland made a cameo appearance as himself in an episode of the UK TV comedy drama Stella. The same year he was honoured by the University of Waikato as one of the year's three distinguished alumni.\n\n"}
{"id": "2248315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248315", "title": "Bryant Notree", "text": "Bryant Notree\n\nBryant Notree is an American former professional basketball player and coach. Born in Chicago, Illinois, he played college basketball for the Illinois Fighting Illini and UIC Flames.\n\nNotree was forced to retire from playing due to a heart condition in the summer of 2005. He was named an assistant coach of the Dakota Wizards for the 2005–06 season.\n"}
{"id": "2248318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248318", "title": "AirQuarius Aviation", "text": "AirQuarius Aviation\n\nAirQuarius Aviation was an airline based in Johannesburg, South Africa, operating chartered flights and aircraft leasing contracted by companies throughout Africa and the Middle East. The airline's base was at Lanseria Airport, Johannesburg.\n\nAirQuarius was established by Gavin Branson and started operations in 1997. At one time it had 120 employees. The airline specialized in operating flights to political crisis areas. As such, AirQuarius was the only operator into Baghdad or Basra during the Iraq War. Other missions included UN flights into Afghanistan and Sudan.\n\nIn 2011 it was alleged that an air operating certificate was awarded to an AirQuarius Charters aircraft on the basis of an inspection form which the inspector said was not written or signed by him.\n\nAirQuarius stopped operating on 7 February 2012.\n\nAirQuarius operated Fokker 70, Fokker F28 and Boeing 737-200 aircraft at various times.\n"}
{"id": "2248325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248325", "title": "Preston railway station", "text": "Preston railway station\n\nPreston railway station in Preston, Lancashire, England, is a major station on the West Coast Main Line, roughly half-way between London Euston and Glasgow Central (206 miles from London Euston, 194 miles from Glasgow Central). It is served by Avanti West Coast, Northern and TransPennine Express services, plus Caledonian Sleeper overnight services between London and Scotland.\n\nThe North Union Railway opened a station on the site in 1838. It was extended in 1850, with new platforms under the separate management of the East Lancashire Railway, and by 1863 London–Scotland trains stopped here to allow passengers to eat in the station dining room. The current station was built in 1880 and extended in 1903 and 1913, when it had fifteen platforms. A free buffet for servicemen was provided during both World Wars. The East Lancashire platforms were demolished in the 1970s as connecting lines closed. Only six platforms remain in regular use today.\n\nAs well as intercity trains to London Euston, Birmingham New Street, Manchester Piccadilly, Glasgow Central and Edinburgh Waverley, the station is served by local trains to other parts of Lancashire, Cumbria, Greater Manchester, Merseyside and Yorkshire.\n\nThe main entrance to the station is at the bottom of the station approach, a ramp off the bridge that carries Fishergate over the railway. The ticket office is located within the small concourse. This concourse gives direct access, down the ramp, to the intercity platforms 3 and 4. There are footbridges on either side of this ramp to all other platforms. The eastern footbridge ends at an alternative entrance to the station on Butler Street, giving closer access to Preston city centre and the station car park. There is also a subway which provides step-free access to all but one platforms in use at the station and another entrance serving the station car park at the south end of platform 7.\n\nThe island forming platforms 3 and 4 is a very wide island platform with a long series of buildings. Inside these buildings are services and amenities including a newsagent and several food outlets including a licensed restaurant. There are also toilets and a large waiting room. A small travel centre on platform 3, near the ramp, is operated by Avanti West Coast staff to give information for passengers on the platform. In addition to these main amenities, there is a small coffee shop outlet on platform 4, as well as an additional shop on platforms 1 and 2.\n\nPassenger information systems were updated during 2007 and now use dot matrix display screens. Preston retained a manual tannoy system until 30 January 2017, a rarity amongst the larger stations in the UK. A new automated announcement system was introduced. In 2009 the station was identified as one of the ten worst category B interchange stations for mystery shopper assessment of fabric and environment, and was set to receive a share of £50m funding for improvements prior to a public spending review initiated in 2010.\n\nThere are currently six through and two bay platforms in use at Preston, with two more available for emergency use. All lines are electrified, allowing any train to use any platform.\n\n\n\n\n\nAlongside regular passenger trains with the odd freight train passing through, on select weekends excursion trains regularly visit Preston offering pickup and setdowns for passengers who wish to travel onboard. The most popular excursion trains are the ones which are worked by steam locomotives. These trips vary from being either ones that start off at Preston and can be seen at the station for a while or briefly stop to pickup passengers before continuing it's journey. Steam locomotives that have been known to visit Preston in recent years include: 6201 Princess Elizabeth, 6233 Duchess of Sutherland, 45690 Leander, 45699 Galatea, 46115 Scots Guardsman & 48151.\n\nThe Cumbrian Mountain Express is a regular train which stops at Preston to pickup passengers while heading to Carlisle over Shap Summit. These are known to run in both the summer and winter each year.\n\nIn June 2018, the Office of Rail & Road approved an application by Alliance Rail Holdings for five services per day from London Euston to Blackpool North that will call at Preston. These will be operated by sister Arriva company Grand Central commencing in 2021.\n\nLiverpool City Region Combined Authority, Long Term Rail Strategy document of October 2017, page 37, states a review in 2020 to introduce new Merseyrail battery trains will be undertaken, in view to put Preston onto the Merseyrail network by extending the Merseyrail Northern Line from Ormskirk to Preston. The aim is to have Preston one of the terminals of the Northern Line. The document states, \"\"The potential use of battery powered Merseyrail units may improve the business case\"\".\n\nIn coaching days, Preston was an important centre for both passenger and postal traffic. This importance continued into the railway age, both as a major junction and as a stopping point about halfway between London and Glasgow.\n\nThe first rail lines in Preston were those of the Lancaster Canal Tramroad, a horse-drawn line connecting two parts of the Lancaster Canal. It opened in 1805, but never carried passengers and never converted to steam. It ceased operating in Preston in 1862.\n\nThe first steam-hauled passenger railway in Preston was the North Union Railway (NUR). On 31 October 1838 it opened its line from Wigan to a station on the site of the present-day Preston Station. This immediately linked the town to London, Birmingham, Liverpool and Manchester.\n\nEach subsequent line was built by a different company. Rivalry often prevented any cooperation over shared facilities, and so almost every railway line into Preston used its own station. It was not until 1900 that all lines in Preston shared a single station, by which time all the companies had been taken over by one or both of just two companies.\n\nThe second passenger railway into Preston was the Preston and Longridge Railway, which opened as another horse-drawn tramway on 1 May 1840, to a terminus in . It converted to steam in 1848, but did not run its trains into the North Union station until 1885.\n\nThe Lancaster and Preston Junction Railway (L&PJR) was the third line, which opened on 25 June 1840, initially using the North Union station. However, relations between the NUR and L&PJR soured, and, from 1 January 1842, most L&PJR trains used, instead, Maxwell House railway station, a short distance to the north of the North Union station. A few trains passed through, but the NUR charged a toll of 6d per passenger. Most passengers refused to pay, preferring to alight at Maxwell House and walk the to the North Union station, but the NUR refused to hold the train to allow passengers to walk and rebook. The NUR advised northbound passengers to travel by the Lancaster Canal rather than the L&PJR. On 1 January 1844, Maxwell House station came into the possession of the NUR, and lack of agreement led to several weeks when hapless L&PJR passengers had to alight on the trackside at nearby Dock Street (off Pitt Street). Lancaster trains were able to use the North Union station from 12 February.\n\nPreston's fourth railway was the Preston and Wyre Joint Railway to Fleetwood, opening, just a few weeks after the L&PJR, on 16 July 1840, to its own terminus at in Leighton Street. After 12 February 1844, regular Preston and Wyre trains used the North Union station, along with the L&PJR, although Maudlands Station continued to be used for excursions for some decades.\n\nThe fifth company to run trains into Preston was the Bolton and Preston Railway (BPR), from 22 June 1843. Its line joined the North Union's at Euxton, south of Preston, but the company used Maxwell House railway station instead of the North Union's. However, the NUR charged 1s per passenger to BPR trains over its tracks, and eventually the BPR resorted to ferrying its passengers by road between Euxton and Preston. The BPR was driven into submission and was taken over by the NUR from 1 January 1844.\n\nThe sixth line into Preston was that of the Preston and Blackburn Railway, which opened on 1 June 1846, joining the North Union line immediately south of Farrington Station (respelt \"Farington\" from October 1857). The railway company was absorbed into the East Lancashire Railway (ELR) on 3 August 1846. Once again, the NUR charged high tolls for the use of its line which led the ELR to build its own line into Preston. The line was initially opposed by Preston Corporation, but was eventually permitted on condition that the embankment north of the Ribble (which later became the dividing line between Avenham and Miller Parks) be ornamentally laid out, and that a pedestrian path (still in use today) be provided on the river bridge. The line ran into new platforms built on the east side of the North Union station, which were managed and staffed by the ELR, and which had their own booking hall and entrance in Butler Street. The new platforms were effectively a separate station. The new line and station opened on 2 September 1850.\n\nThe seventh line in Preston was the North Union's own Victoria Quay Branch to Victoria Quay on the River Ribble (later extended to Preston Docks in 1882 and which now connects to the heritage Ribble Steam Railway). The single-track goods line opened in October 1846 from a south-facing junction immediately south of Preston Station, through a tight curve into a tunnel with a gradient of 1 in 29, emerging north of Fishergate Hill near the riverside.\n\nThe eighth line to Preston was the Liverpool, Ormskirk and Preston Railway, owned by the ELR and connected to its Blackburn line into Preston. It opened on 2 April 1849. From 1891, its trains used a new curve at Farington to enter Preston via the North Union line.\n\nThe ninth and final line into Preston was the West Lancashire Railway (WLR) from Southport. The railway arrived in Preston on 16 September 1882, by which time all the town's other lines were owned by the London and North Western Railway (LNWR) or the Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway (LYR), or jointly by both. The independent WLR built its own Fishergate Hill station. It also built a connecting line to the former ELR (then LYR) line, via which the majority of Southport-to-Preston trains continued to . The railway was not a success, and on 1 July 1897 it was taken over by the LYR. This resulted in the diversion of all passenger services to use the East Lancashire platforms of Preston Station from 16 July 1900.\n\nThe network of lines south of Preston allowed great flexibility in the routing of trains. A train approaching the town on any of the lines from the south (except the WLR from Southport) could be routed to enter the station via either the North Union or the East Lancashire line. It was even possible for trains from the north to perform an effective U-turn, a feat sometimes carried out by trains between Scotland and Blackpool that would otherwise have had to reverse.\n\nWhen the station was first opened in 1838 by the North Union Railway, the line north of the station passed through a tunnel under the west end of Fishergate (then Preston's major thoroughfare). It was on a slope so steep that sometimes station staff had to push trains out of the station.\nBy 1846, the station was already very busy, handling trains from Wigan and the south, Bolton, Fleetwood, Blackpool, Lancaster and the north, and Blackburn. There were no footbridges; passengers had to cross the lines escorted by station staff. North of the station was a network of goods lines around the end of the Lancaster Canal. The coal yards and sidings here continued to operate long after the canal had fallen into commercial disuse.\n\nThe station's first expansion came in 1850 when the new East Lancashire line used new platforms staffed and managed by the East Lancashire Railway, with their own entrance and booking office in Butler Street. From 1863, trains between London and Scotland, having no dining cars, were scheduled to allow 20 minutes at Preston for passengers to eat in the station's dining room. The pressure on catering staff was increased when northbound and southbound trains would often arrive about the same time. The condition of the station deteriorated to the extent that on 18 August 1866 part of the roof on the East Lancashire side collapsed injuring three people, one seriously. By then, 150 trains a day passed through the station.\n\nEventually the station was rebuilt, at a cost of a quarter of a million pounds, reopening in July 1880, and with seven through platforms and four bay platforms. At this time, both the Ribble bridge and the line as far as Euxton, were widened from two tracks to four. A striking feature of the new station was its long and wide central island platform, long and wide. It was larger than any of the London terminal station platforms, the longest being Kings Cross at . Along the centre of the platform were refreshment rooms, offices, and waiting rooms. A booking hall at the north end of the station was accessed from the middle of a new bridge carrying Fishergate over the railway. A broad ramp led down to the main island platform, with footbridges to smaller platforms on either side. Further south, the platforms were also linked by a passenger subway and a separate subway for luggage, accessed via hoists. At the south end of the main platform, a footbridge led to the nearby Park Hotel, a joint LYR/LNWR property, opened in 1883.\n\nOn 30 January 1877 a heavy storm blew the roof completely away from the station, but a more serious accident occurred on 13 July 1896 when a to Glasgow train passed through the station at an estimated , despite a speed limit. It was derailed on a tight curve at the north end of the station, killing one person. As a result of this, the tracks were realigned. Charles Street, to the west of the station, was demolished, as were more houses northwest of the station. Fishergate bridge was extended on its west side. This allowed more tracks and platforms to be built on the west side of the station, with gentler curves. The Ribble bridge was widened again, from four to six tracks. These enlargements were completed by 1903. The east side of the station was also extended in 1913.\n\nBy 1926, the lines and platforms were used as follows, from west to east:\n\n\nLater, platforms 11, 12, 13 and 10 were renumbered into the more logical sequence 10, 11, 12, 13.\nA number of lines around Preston have closed, including the Longridge line in 1930 and the West Lancashire line in 1964. The old island platforms one and two were closed in 1970 together with the goods lines to the west of the station, but it was then extended northwards to allow platform two to become a dedicated parcels platform. The line towards Liverpool was truncated and singled in summer 1970, with Preston services terminating at . This was followed by the closure of the East Lancashire line, between Preston and , via its original direct route, in April 1972. The East Lancashire platforms 10 to 13 were demolished, along with the Butler Street Goods Yard. Their site is now covered by car parks for the station and the adjacent Fishergate Shopping Centre, which was built in the 1980s, partly over the north end of the former goods yard. The remaining platforms 3 to 9 were renumbered 1 to 7.\n\nSome of the station's heritage can still be seen:\n\nIn the early 1970s, approval was given to electrify the rest of the West Coast Main Line from Weaver Junction through Preston to Glasgow Central. This was accompanied by new signals on the line and a power signal box was constructed north of the station close by Fylde Junction. Electrification over run also took place at this junction. This was also to facilitate electrification to Blackpool at a later date.\n\nA free buffet for servicemen was provided at the station during both World Wars. The Preston Station Free Buffet Association served free hot drinks, biscuits and buns and sold sandwiches at cost price to anyone in uniform 24 hours a day for the duration of the First World War. Four hundred women working 12-hour shifts served over 3 million men between 1915 and 1919. 12 million cups of tea were served between 1939 and 1945. It was funded by subscription and had its own marked crockery. The station was on a major north–south route for troops. There are three commemorative plaques related to the First World War buffet in the waiting room on platforms 3 and 4, the former site of WWI buffet. One of the drama segments of the televised \"Preston Passion\" of 2012 was set in the First World War servicemen's buffet. The Second World War buffet was located in the southern building further down platforms 5&6 (now platforms 3&4).\n\nOne of the catenary stanchions on platform 4 is notably better kept than others, and carries a small plaque detailing the visit of Queen Elizabeth II on 7 May 1974, after the completion of electrification of tracks north of the point where it stands. This was significant because it marked the completion of the total electrification of the West Coast Main Line.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe autobiographical song \"Cheap Day Return\", on the Jethro Tull album Aqualung (1971), is set on the Preston platform, a transfer stop on the return leg of a trip from London to Blackpool.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2248330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248330", "title": "The Fool on the Hill", "text": "The Fool on the Hill\n\n\"The Fool on the Hill\" is a song by the English rock band the Beatles from their 1967 EP and album \"Magical Mystery Tour\". It was written and sung by Paul McCartney and credited to the Lennon–McCartney partnership. The lyrics describe the titular \"fool\", a solitary figure who is not understood by others, but is actually wise. McCartney said the idea for the song was inspired by the Dutch design collective the Fool, who derived their name from the tarot card of the same name, and possibly by Maharishi Mahesh Yogi.\n\nThe song's segment in the \"Magical Mystery Tour\" television film was shot separately from the rest of the film and without the other Beatles' knowledge. Accompanied by a professional cameraman, McCartney filmed the scene near Nice in France. In 1968, Sérgio Mendes & Brasil '66 recorded a cover version of the song that reached the top ten in the US. By the late 1970s, \"The Fool on the Hill\" was one of McCartney's most widely recorded ballads. A solo demo and an outtake of the song were included on the Beatles' 1996 compilation album \"Anthology 2\".\n\nThe song's lyrics describe the titular \"fool\", a solitary figure who is not understood by others, but is actually wise. In his authorised biography, \"Many Years from Now\", Paul McCartney says he first got the idea for the premise from the Dutch design collective the Fool, who were the Beatles' favourite designers in 1967 and told him that they had derived their name from the Tarot card of the same name. According to McCartney, the song possibly relates to a character such as Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, the Beatles' meditation teacher:\n\"Fool on the Hill\" was mine and I think I was writing about someone like Maharishi. His detractors called him a fool. Because of his giggle, he wasn't taken too seriously. It was this idea of a fool on the hill, a guru in a cave, I was attracted to... I was sitting at the piano at my father's house in Liverpool hitting a D 6th chord, and I made up \"Fool on the Hill\".\n\nAlistair Taylor, in his book \"Yesterday\", reports a mysterious incident involving a man who inexplicably appeared near him and McCartney during a walk on Primrose Hill and then disappeared again, soon after McCartney and Taylor had conversed about the existence of God. In Taylor's account, this incident prompted McCartney to write \"The Fool on the Hill\".\n\nMcCartney played the song for John Lennon during a writing session for \"With a Little Help from My Friends\" in March 1967. At this point, McCartney had the melody but the lyrics remained incomplete until September. Lennon told him to write it down; McCartney said he did not need to, because he was sure he would not forget it. In his 1980 interview with \"Playboy\" magazine, Lennon said, \"Now that's Paul. Another good lyric. Shows he's capable of writing complete songs.\"\n\nThe song involves alternations of D major and D minor in a similar manner to Cole Porter's alternations of C minor and C major in \"Night and Day\". The verses are in the major key while the chorus changes to the parallel minor, indicating the confusion implied by the song title. Ian MacDonald says the change to the parallel minor key effectively conveys \"the simultaneously literal and metaphorical sense of the sun going behind a cloud\".\n\nThe D major tonality that begins with an Em chord on \"Nobody wants to know him\" moves through a ii–V–I–vi–ii–V progression until the shift to the Dm tone and key on \"but the fool\". According to musicologist Dominic Pedler, other highlights are the use in the Dm section of a minor sixth (B) melody note on the word \"sun\" (with a Dm chord) and a major ninth (E melody note) on the word \"world\" (with a Dm chord).\n\nThe Beatles recorded \"The Fool on the Hill\" for their \"Magical Mystery Tour\" film project. It was the band's first project following the death of their manager, Brian Epstein; according to publicist Tony Barrow, McCartney envisaged the film establishing a \"whole new phase of their career\" with himself as \"the film producer of the Beatles\". McCartney first taped a solo demo of the song on 6 September 1967. This version was later released on the \"Anthology 2\" compilation. Recording began in earnest on 25 September, with significant overdubs by the Beatles on 26 September. Mark Lewisohn said that the 26 September version was \"almost a re-make\". A take from 25 September – noticeably slower, somewhat heavier and with slightly different vocals – is also included on \"Anthology 2\". After another session on 27 September, where McCartney added another vocal, the song sat for a month before flutes were added on 20 October. The recording includes a tape loop of bird-like sounds, heard towards the end of the song, that recalls the seagull effect heard in \"Tomorrow Never Knows\".\n\nRay Thomas, flautist with the Moody Blues, said that he and bandmate Mike Pinder contributed harmonicas to the song alongside Lennon and George Harrison.\n\nAccording to Alistair Taylor, McCartney \"disappeared\" in late October and it was only on his return that the others learned that he had been to France to film a sequence for \"The Fool on the Hill\". McCartney flew to Nice with cameraman Aubrey Dewar and filmed the sequence at dawn on 31 October. The location was in the mountains inland from the city. McCartney mimed to the song as Dewar filmed the sunrise. The clip was the only musical segment filmed at an exterior location and using professional photography, and the shoot took place when the rest of the \"Magical Mystery Tour\" footage was well into the editing stage. Peter Brown, who was coordinating the Beatles' business affairs following Epstein's death, recalled that McCartney phoned him from Nice asking for new camera lenses to be sent out for the shoot. According to Brown, the cost for the location filming was considerable, at £4000. In Taylor's description, the footage was \"terrific\" and \"really complemented the song\".<ref name=\"Barrow/MakingMMT\"> \"No page numbers appear\".</ref>\n\nThe clip shows McCartney in contemplation<ref name=\"Fontenot/About\"></ref> and cavorting on the hillside. He recalled that he \"ad-libbed the whole thing\" and that his directions to Dewar were: \"Right get over there: Let me dance. Let me dance from this rock to this rock. Get a lot of the sun rising ...\" According to author Philip Norman, while the non-musical portions of \"Magical Mystery Tour\" were uninspired, the \"serial pop video\" aspect of the TV film succeeds as a \"tour through three rapidly emerging solo talents\" in Lennon, McCartney and Harrison. He says the sequence for McCartney's \"almost 'Yesterday'-size future standard\" shows the singer \"on a Provençal mountainside, all big brown eyes and turned-up overcoat\". Author Jonathan Gould describes the sequence as \"over-lush footage of Paul on a hill ... playing the Fool as if the Fool were a model in a fashion ad\".\n\n\"The Fool on the Hill\" and the five other songs from the television film were compiled for release on a double EP, except in the United States, where Capitol Records chose to augment the line-up with the Beatles' non-album single tracks from 1967 and create an LP record. The Capitol release took place on 27 November 1967, while Parlophone issued the EP on 8 December. \"The Fool on the Hill\" appeared as the opening track on side three in the EP package. On the LP, it was sequenced as the second track on side one, following \"Magical Mystery Tour\".\n\nThe song's segment in the \"Magical Mystery Tour\" film proved the most problematic during the editing process since McCartney and Dewar had failed to use a clapperboard. The film was broadcast in the UK on BBC1 on 26 December, but in black and white rather than colour. It was the Beatles' first critical failure. As a result of the unfavourable reviews, networks in the US declined to show the film there. Brown blamed McCartney for its failure. Brown said that during a private screening for management staff, the reaction had been \"unanimous ... it was awful\", yet McCartney was convinced that the film would be warmly received, and ignored Brown's advice to scrap the project and save the band from embarrassment. In \"Many Years from Now\", McCartney cites the inclusion of Lennon's \"I Am the Walrus\" as justification for \"Magical Mystery Tour\" and highlights the sequence for \"The Fool on the Hill\" as another of the film's redeeming features.\n\nIn 1973, three years after the Beatles' break-up, \"The Fool on the Hill\" was included on the band's compilation album \"1967–1970\". The song plays over the opening titles of the 2010 Jay Roach film \"Dinner for Schmucks\". It was claimed that Paramount/DreamWorks paid $1.5 million to buy the rights for the song in perpetuity. In 2011, a new mix of \"The Fool on the Hill\" was issued as an iTunes-exclusive bonus track with the download release of the Beatles' 2006 album \"Love\".\n\nUnlike the film, the \"Magical Mystery Tour\" EP and album were well received by critics. Bob Dawbarn of \"Melody Maker\" described the EP as \"six tracks which no other pop group in the world could begin to approach for originality combined with the popular touch\". He found \"The Fool on the Hill\" likeable from the first listen as a \"typical Beatle lyrical ballad\", and said it would make an \"excellent single A-side\". In \"Saturday Review\" magazine, Mike Jahn highlighted the song as an example of how the album successfully conveyed the Beatles' \"acquired Hindu philosophy and its subsequent application to everyday life\", in this instance by describing \"a detached observer, a yogin, who meditates and watches the world spin\". Richard Goldstein of \"The New York Times\" rued that, more so than \"Sgt. Pepper\", the soundtrack demonstrated the Beatles' departure from true rock values and an over-reliance on studio artifice and motif, such that when \"the hero of 'The Fool On The Hill' sees the world spinning round, we whirl gently amid dizzy rhythms\". He nevertheless found the song \"so easy to adore\", with a melody that he deemed \"the most haunting thing on the album\", and concluded: \"The fool as visionary is a common theme ... But there are lovely ways of presenting cliché, and this is one of them.\"\n\nRex Reed, in a highly unfavourable review of the LP for \"HiFi/Stereo Review\", described \"The Fool on the Hill\" as \"the only item on the disc that is not distorted so much that you can't understand the lyrics\" and admired the flutes on the recording. Having dismissed the Beatles as \"lousy entertainers and downright untalented, tone-deaf musicians\", he added that the song \"will probably be picked up by people who can sing, and then maybe I will like it even more\". Robert Christgau, writing for \"Esquire\" in May 1968, said the song \"shows signs of becoming a favorite of the Simon & Garfunkel crowd and the transcendental meditators, who deserve it. A callow rendering of the outcast-visionary theme, it may be the worst song the Beatles have ever recorded.\" Christgau added that McCartney \"should know better by now\", but also conceded that the new material was meant to be heard in the context of the \"Magical Mystery Tour\" TV film. In his article \"Rock and Art\" for \"Rolling Stone\" in July that year, Jon Landau rued that the basic values of rock 'n' roll music had been lost to an artistic aesthetic, a trend he found particularly evident in the Beatles' recent work. He said the song represented the \"complete negation of their earlier selves\" and contained \"all the qualities that the early Beatles sought to deflate: it is pious, subtly self-righteous, humorless and totally unphysical.\" \n\n\"NME\" critics Roy Carr and Tony Tyler described the song as \"exquisite\" and paired it with \"I Am the Walrus\" as being \"by far the most outstanding cuts\" on the \"Magical Mystery Tour\" soundtrack. Writing in his book \"The Beatles Forever\", Nicholas Schaffner identified the same tracks as \"two of the most impressive Beatle songs ever\". He said \"The Fool on the Hill\" was among McCartney's \"most irresistible, universal\" ballads, with a lyric that successfully transposed into pop music the literary theme established through fairy tales, through stories of monarchs prizing their court jester over more learned counsel, and in Dostoevsky's popular novel \"The Idiot\".\n\nBob Woffinden said the film project was undertaken too quickly after Epstein's death, at McCartney's insistence, and McCartney's misguided leadership was also reflected in the \"particularly narcissistic\" sequence he created for \"The Fool on the Hill\". Tim Riley writes that unlike the sharp insights offered by fools in Shakespeare's works, the lyrics teach the listener \"Little or nothing, except how to pull the heartstrings.\" Riley concludes: \"Possibilities in this song outweigh its substance – it's the most unworthy Beatles standard since 'Michelle.'\" Ian MacDonald admires the melody as \"poignantly expressive\" and says the lyric \"skirts sentiment by never committing itself, remaining open to several different interpretations\". He describes the song as \"an airy creation, poised peacefully above the world in a place where time and haste are suspended\" and says that its \"timeless appeal ... lies in its paradoxical air of childlike wisdom and unworldliness\". Writing for Rough Guides, Chris Ingham includes \"The Fool on the Hill\" among the Beatles' \"essential\" songs. He calls the melody \"bewitching\" and adds: \"part of the joy of the piece is the finely judged lyrical ambiguity that, along with the beautiful spaciousness of the arrangement (all flutes, recorders, bass harmonica and whispery brushes on the drums), allows a myriad of implied meanings to float beguilingly into the imagination of the listener.\"\n\nIn 2012, \"The Fool on the Hill\" was ranked the 420th-best classic rock song of all time by New York's Q104.3. In 2006, \"Mojo\" ranked it 71st in the magazine's list of \"The 101 Greatest Beatles Songs\". In 2018, the music staff of \"Time Out London\" ranked it at number 34 on their list of the best Beatles songs.\n\nThe Beatles were no longer performing concerts when they released \"The Fool on the Hill\". McCartney considered including it in the set list for his and Wings' 1975–76 world tour – the first time he conceded to playing Beatles songs with Wings – but decided against it. Wings performed it throughout their 1979 tour of the UK.\n\nMcCartney included \"The Fool on the Hill\" on his 1989–1990 world tour. Keen to embrace his Beatles past, he played it on the same multi-coloured piano he had used for writing during the 1960s; he introduced the instrument as the \"Magic Piano\". His performances of the song incorporated sound bites from Martin Luther King Jr.'s \"I Have a Dream\" speech. In his press conference on the final day of the world tour, McCartney commented that the song was about \"someone who's got the right answer but people tend to ridicule him\". A live version from McCartney's concert at London's Wembley Arena on 13 January 1990 was included on the album \"Tripping the Live Fantastic\". The song surfaced again for McCartney's 2001–2002 tours, and another live version appeared on the \"Back in the U.S.\" album.\n\nSérgio Mendes & Brasil '66 recorded \"Fool on the Hill\", using their approach of marrying a simple bossa nova rhythm with a string accompaniment.<ref name=\"Ginell/AM\"></ref> The lead vocal was by Lani Hall. Released as a single in late July 1968, the song reached number 6 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and topped \"Billboard\"s Easy Listening chart for six weeks. It was also the title track of Mendes' 1968 album \"Fool on the Hill\".\n\nIn 2018, Mendes recalled that he was introduced to the Beatles' \"Magical Mystery Tour\" album over Christmas 1967 by Herb Alpert, his producer. Impressed with the melody of \"The Fool on the Hill\", he thought, \"Wow, I think I can do a totally different arrangement.\" He said McCartney later wrote him a letter to thank him for his version of the song.<ref name=\"Shand/SMH\"></ref>\n\nBy the late 1970s, \"The Fool on the Hill\" was one of McCartney's most widely recorded ballads. According to Ingham, it was especially popular among cabaret performers during the late 1960s. In 1971, a recording by Shirley Bassey peaked at number 48 on the UK Singles Chart. Helen Reddy recorded the song for \"All This and World War II\", a 1976 film in which wartime newsreel was set to a soundtrack of Lennon–McCartney songs. According to author Robert Rodriguez, it was one of the few \"clever juxtapositions\" in the film, as the song plays over footage of Adolf Hitler at his mountain hideaway in Berchtesgaden. \nNine years after the duo disbanded, Eurythmics reunited in January 2014 to perform \"The Fool on the Hill\" for \"\".\n\nThe following are among the many other artists who have covered the song: the Four Tops, Björk, Sarah Vaughan, Aretha Franklin, Petula Clark, John Williams, Santo & Johnny, Ray Stevens, Bobbie Gentry, Eddie Fisher, Lena Horne with Gábor Szabó, Micky Dolenz, Stone the Crows, Vera Lynn, Enoch Light, Andre Kostelanetz, the Boston Pops Orchestra, Corry Brokken, the King's Singers, Zé Ramalho, Bud Shank, Mulgrew Miller, the Chopsticks, Mark Mallman, Lana Cantrell, Barry Goldberg, Sharon Tandy, Libby Titus, the Singers Unlimited, Isabelle Aubret and Eddy Mitchell.\n\nAccording to Ian MacDonald (except where noted), the following musicians played on the Beatles' recording:\n\nThe Beatles\n\nAdditional musicians\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2248337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248337", "title": "Isis (journal)", "text": "Isis (journal)\n\nIsis is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal published by the University of Chicago Press. It covers the history of science, history of medicine, and the history of technology, as well as their cultural influences. It contains original research articles and extensive book reviews and review essays. Furthermore, sections devoted to one particular topic are published in each issue in open access. These sections consist of the Focus section, the Viewpoint section and the Second Look section.\n\nThe journal was established by George Sarton and the first issue appeared in March 1913. Contributions were originally in any of four European languages (English, French, German, and Italian), but since the 1920s, only English has been used. Publication is partly supported by an endowment from the Dibner Fund. Two associated publications are \"Osiris\" (established 1936 by Sarton) and the \"Isis Current Bibliography\".\n\nThe publication of the journal was interrupted in 1914 by the German invasion of Belgium during World War I, and resumed in 1919. During World War II, publication was interrupted again in 1940 and in 1945. Since then, each year four issues (sometimes double issues) of one volume have appeared in print, and since 2002 the journal has also been published in full-text electronic format.\n\nThe \"Isis Current Bibliography\" started as \"Critical Bibliography\" and was published from the very first volume onwards. Since 1969, the \"Critical Bibliography\" was published as the fifth issue to a volume. In 1989, the name was changed to \"Isis Current Bibliography\" to reflect that, since Sarton’s retirement in 1953, the bibliography had not been truly critical in the sense that each citation was commented on by an expert. It then also became a separate publication from \"Isis\". It includes citations to publications in the history of science and related fields, including books, book reviews, journal articles and more. The bibliography is the oldest and largest bibliography in the field, going back to the first issue of \"Isis\" in 1913. The \"Isis Current Bibliography\" is freely available at the website of University of Chicago Press and the IsisCB Explore website.\n\nIn 1924, the History of Science Society was founded by George Sarton and Lawrence Joseph Henderson to secure the future of \"Isis\".\n\nIn a paper \"Why Isis\", Sarton explains that the choice of the name for his journal was made rather unconsciously, after having been introduced to Egyptology during a visit to the Egyptian section of the Rijksmuseum van Oudheden in The Netherlands. In his paper, Sarton elaborates on the misunderstandings the name \"Isis\" can generate: in the early years, \"Isis\" was often linked to freemasonry, because some of their rites are purportedly of Egyptian origin. Another misinterpretation was that \"Isis\" referred to theosophy, most likely caused by the book entitled \"Isis Unveiled\" (1877) by Helena Blavatsky, who was the leader of the theosophic movement at that time. Also, and very reasonably, \"Isis\" was taken to be a journal devoted to Egyptology.\n\nThe following persons are or have been editors-in-chief:\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2017 impact factor of 1.070, ranking it 11th out of 61 journals in the category \"History and Philosophy of Science\" (Science edition).\n"}
{"id": "2248338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248338", "title": "Condeixa-a-Nova", "text": "Condeixa-a-Nova\n\nCondeixa-a-Nova (), also known as just Condeixa, is a town and a municipality in the district of Coimbra, Portugal. The population in 2011 was 17,078, in an area of 138.67 km². It is located 15 km south of Coimbra, and is part of the Região de Coimbra. The town is known for the ancient Roman settlement of Conímbriga which is located nearby, and includes a museum and the well-preserved ruins.\n\nThe municipality of Condeixa-a-Nova is traditionally a center for agriculture. The municipality has also a number of industries ranging from ceramics to pharmaceuticals (Medinfar). The ancient Roman settlement of Conímbriga, is an important tourist attraction.\n\nAdministratively, the municipality is divided into seven civil parishes (\"freguesias\"):\n\n"}
{"id": "2248339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248339", "title": "Boris Kurakin", "text": "Boris Kurakin\n\nPrince Boris Ivanovich Kurakin (\"Борис Иванович Куракин\" in Russian) (30 July 1676, Moscow – 28 October 1727, Paris) was the third permanent Russian ambassador abroad, succeeding Andrey Matveyev in The Hague and one of the closest associates of Peter the Great. He was also the tsar's brother-in-law, being married to Xenia, daughter of Feodor Abramovich Lopukhin and sister of Eudoxia Lopukhina.\n\nThe Kurakins were one of the greatest Gedyminid families of Muscovy, whose members were promoted straight to the rank of okolnichy, skipping lower ranks like stolnik. In 1683, Boris Kurakin was appointed to young Peter's retinue and took part in all of his military games. In 1695-1696, he participated in the Azov campaigns. In 1697, he was sent to Italy to learn navigation.\n\nHis long and honourable diplomatic career began in 1707, when he was sent to Rome to induce the pope not to recognize Charles XII's candidate, Stanislaus Leszczynski, as king of Poland. In 1709, Boris Kurakin was appointed commander of the Semenovsky Regiment during the Battle of Poltava. From 1708 to 1712, he represented Russia at London, Hanover, and the Hague successively, and, in 1713, was the principal Russian plenipotentiary at the peace congress of Utrecht. From 1716 to 1722, he held the post of ambassador at Paris, and when, in 1722, Peter set forth on his Persian campaign, Kurakin was appointed the supervisor of all the Russian ambassadors accredited to the various European courts. In 1723, he attempted to arrange the marriage of Elizaveta Petrovna to Louis XV. Next year, he was sent to Paris as an ambassador, where he would eventually die.\n\n\"The father of Russian diplomacy\", as Kurakin has justly been called, was remarkable throughout his career for infinite tact and insight, and a wonderfully correct appreciation of men and events. He was most useful to Russia, perhaps, when the Great Northern War was drawing to a close. Notably, he prevented Great Britain from declaring war against Peter's close ally, Denmark, at the crisis of the struggle. As Duc de Saint-Simon put it, \"c'etait un grand homme, bien fait, qui sentait fort la grandeur de son origine, avec beaucoup d'esprit, de tour et d'instruction\".\n\nKurakin was one of the best-educated Russians of his day, and his autobiography, carried down to 1709, is an historical document of the first importance. He intended to write a history of his own times with Peter the Great as the central figure, but got no further than the summary, entitled \"History of Tsar Peter Aleksievich and the People Nearest to Him (1682-1694)\".\n\nKurakin's descendants were also noted for their diplomatic careers. His son Alexander (1697–1749) was likewise ambassador to Paris, whereas the latter's grandson Alexander Kurakin (1752–1818) served as ambassador to Paris and Vienna under Alexander I and Vice-Chancellor of the Russian Empire in 1796.\n\n"}
{"id": "2248342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248342", "title": "Flying (Beatles instrumental)", "text": "Flying (Beatles instrumental)\n\n\"Flying\" is an instrumental recorded by the English rock band the Beatles which first appeared on the 1967 \"Magical Mystery Tour\" release (two EP discs in the United Kingdom, an LP in the United States). It is one of the few songs credited to all four members of the band: John Lennon, Paul McCartney, George Harrison and Ringo Starr.\n\nThe first instrumental written by the Beatles since \"12-Bar Original\" in 1965, this was also the first song to be credited as being written by all four members of the band with the writing credits of \"Harrison/Lennon–McCartney/Starkey\". Like \"12-Bar Original,\" it was based on the classic twelve-bar blues chord progression. \n\n\"Flying\" was recorded on 8 September 1967 with mellotron, guitar, bass, maracas, drums, and tape loops overdubs on 28 September under its original title of \"Aerial Tour Instrumental.\" The end of the recording originally included a fast-paced traditional New Orleans jazz-influenced coda, but this was removed and replaced with an ending featuring tape loops created by John Lennon and Ringo Starr during the 28 September session. The loops extended the song to 9 minutes 38 seconds, but the track was cut down to only 2 minutes 17 seconds. Part of the loops were used alongside an element of the ending jazz sequence to make \"The Bus\", an incidental piece used at various points in the TV movie.\n\nOn the track, as recorded and officially released, Lennon plays the main theme on mellotron, accompanied by McCartney and Harrison (both on guitars, plus a later McCartney bass overdub) and Starr (on maracas and drums). All four Beatles sing the melody without lyrics of any kind, and the track fades in an assortment of tape effects created by Lennon and Starr. This released version is identical to that heard on the soundtrack of the \"Magical Mystery Tour\" film; the music is accompanied in the film by color-altered images of landscape in Iceland taken from an aeroplane, as well as some unused footage from the 1964 Stanley Kubrick film \"Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb\".\n\nA different version can be found on some Beatles bootleg albums (such as \"Back-track 1\"), and features added Hammond organ and strange whistling noises in the early parts of the track. The jazz-influenced ending is also present on this version, which is slightly shorter, clocking in at around 2:08. This coda, which Mark Lewisohn speculated was \"seemingly copied straight from an unidentifiable modern jazz record\", was in fact played on a mellotron. (In addition to the familiar samples of instruments playing single notes, mellotrons had entire banks of a pop orchestra playing popular styles of music, with optional accompaniment. The piece here was played with the Dixieland Rhythm Mellotron setting.)\n\nRichard Goldstein of \"The New York Times\" believed that the track, \"as instrumental interlude, is more interesting, if only because it is more modest [than the rest of the album]\". Robert Christgau said that the track was \"just a cut above Paul Mauriat, not bad but not Our Boys\". Rex Reed, in a highly unfavourable review of the album for \"Stereo Review\", said that it \"sounds like the soundtrack of an old Maria Montez jungle movie at just about the point where she feeds the chanting populace to the cobras\".\n\nJapanese progressive rock band Yonin Bayashi covered \"Flying\" for their 1976 album \"Golden Picnics\".\n\nIn 1977, the Residents covered \"Flying\" on the \"Residents Play the Beatles\" side of their \"The Beatles Play the Residents and the Residents Play the Beatles\" single release. The single is now fairly difficult to obtain, although the track can be found on the discontinued CD release of \"The Third Reich 'n Roll\" as a bonus track.\n\nShockabilly included a cover of \"Flying\" for their 1984 album \"Vietnam\".\n\nThe Secret Machines also covered it for the film \"Across the Universe\".\n\nMark Wood (Trans-Siberian Orchestra, Mark Wood Experience, Electrify Your Strings) covered \"Flying\" on his album \"Sanctuary\". It is also included on his album \"These Are A Few Of My Favorite Things\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2248348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248348", "title": "Alpengeist", "text": "Alpengeist\n\nAlpengeist is an inverted steel roller coaster at Busch Gardens Williamsburg. Manufactured by Bolliger & Mabillard, Alpengeist has an Alpine mountain region theme. The name \"Alpengeist\" is German for \"Ghost of the Alps\" or \"Alps Spirit\" and the ride is themed to a runaway ski lift. Since it opened in 1997, Alpengeist has been the world's tallest complete circuit inverted coaster (Wicked Twister at Cedar Point is taller, but is a shuttle coaster).\n\nAlpengeist has 3 trains with 8 cars, riders are arranged 4 across in a single row for a total of 32 riders per train. The trains feature a zero car at the front of the train which contains 680kg (1499 lbs) of weight which allows the trains to complete larger elements. The trains also feature skis on the side of each seat support beam which adds to the theming of the ride.\n\nUpon exiting the station, the floor drops beneath the riders feet and the train climbs the 167-foot-tall chain lift after hearing the send-off recording \"Thank you and enjoy your avalanche of adventure on Alpengeist!\" The top of the lift reaches 195 feet above the river below. The track turns right while dropping down a 170-foot spiral drop, going past The Land of The Dragons, with the train hitting 67 miles per hour. Following the drop, the track passes through an Immelmann loop, followed by a 106-foot vertical loop. The track then races through a wooden tunnel, which until recent years, had cameras for an on-ride photo (it has since been removed due to the two inside seats not being clear in the photos), before passing through a cobra roll over the Rhine River, adjacent to the Loch Ness Monster. Out of the cobra roll, the track crosses over the entrance to the cobra roll, passes by Griffon, then rises into the midcourse brake run. After the midcourse brakes, the track crosses over the exit from the Immelmann loop and then down a drop before entering a zero-g roll, alongside the Le Scoot log flume. After a short section of straight track close to ground level, the track goes through a corkscrew followed by a clockwise upward helix, before making a left turn to the final brake run.\n"}
{"id": "2248349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248349", "title": "Blue Jay Way", "text": "Blue Jay Way\n\n\"Blue Jay Way\" is a song recorded by the English rock band the Beatles. Written by George Harrison, it was released in 1967 on the group's \"Magical Mystery Tour\" EP and album. The song was named after a street in the Hollywood Hills of Los Angeles where Harrison stayed in August 1967, shortly before visiting the Haight-Ashbury district of San Francisco. The lyrics document Harrison's wait for music publicist Derek Taylor to find his way to Blue Jay Way through the fog-ridden hills, while Harrison struggled to stay awake after the flight from London to Los Angeles.\n\nAs with several of Harrison's compositions from this period, \"Blue Jay Way\" incorporates aspects of Indian classical music, although the Beatles used only Western instrumentation on the track, including a drone-like Hammond organ part played by Harrison. Created during the group's psychedelic period, the track makes extensive use of studio techniques such as flanging, Leslie rotary effect, and reversed tape sounds. The song appeared in the Beatles' 1967 television film \"Magical Mystery Tour\", in a sequence that visually re-creates the sense of haziness and dislocation evident on the recording.\n\nWhile some reviewers have dismissed the song as monotonous, several others have admired its yearning quality and dark musical mood. The website \"Consequence of Sound\" describes \"Blue Jay Way\" as \"a haunted house of a hit, adding an ethereal, creepy mythos to the City of Angels\". Among its continued links with Los Angeles, the song was one of the first Beatles tracks that cult leader Charles Manson adopted as the foundation for his Helter Skelter theory of an American race-related countercultural revolution. Artists who have covered the song include Bud Shank, Colin Newman, Tracy Bonham and Siouxsie and the Banshees.\n\nGeorge Harrison wrote \"Blue Jay Way\" after arriving in Los Angeles on 1 August 1967 with his wife Pattie Boyd and Beatles aides Neil Aspinall and Alex Mardas. The purpose of the trip was to spend a week with Derek Taylor, the Beatles' former press officer and latterly the publicist for California-based acts such as the Byrds and the Beach Boys. The visit also allowed Harrison to reunite with his sitar tutor, Ravi Shankar, whose Kinnara School of Music and upcoming concert at the Hollywood Bowl he helped publicise.\nThe title of the song came from a street named Blue Jay Way, one of the \"bird streets\" high in the Hollywood Hills West area overlooking the Sunset Strip, where Harrison had rented a house for his stay. Jet-lagged after the flight from London, he began writing the composition on a Hammond organ as he and Boyd waited for Taylor and the latter's wife, Joan, to join them. The home's location, on a hillside of narrow, winding roads, together with the foggy conditions that night, created the backdrop for the song's opening lines: \"There's a fog upon LA / And my friends have lost their way.\" Harrison had almost completed the song by the time the Taylors arrived, around two hours later than planned.\n\nThe week with Taylor proved to be important for the direction of the Beatles. At the height of the Summer of Love and the popularity of the band's \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\" album, Harrison, Taylor and their small entourage visited the international \"hippie capital\" of Haight-Ashbury, in San Francisco, on 7 August. Harrison had expected to encounter an enlightened community engaged in artistic pursuits and working to create a viable alternative lifestyle; instead, he was disappointed that Haight-Ashbury appeared to be populated by drug addicts, dropouts and \"hypocrites\". Following his return to England two days later, Harrison completed work on \"Blue Jay Way\" at his home in Esher, and he shared his disillusionment about Haight-Ashbury with John Lennon. The Beatles then publicly denounced the popular hallucinogen LSD (or \"acid\") and other drugs in favour of Transcendental Meditation under Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, whose seminar in Bangor in Wales the band attended in late August. While noting Harrison's role in \"inspir[ing] the West's mainstream acquaintance with Hindu religion\" through his leadership in this aspect of the Beatles' career, author Ian MacDonald describes \"Blue Jay Way\" as a \"farewell to psychedelia\", just as \"It's All Too Much\", which the Beatles recorded in May 1967, became Harrison's \"farewell to acid\".\n\n\"Blue Jay Way\" was one of several songs that Harrison composed on a keyboard over 1966–68 – a period when, aside from in his work with the Beatles, he had abandoned his first instrument, the guitar, to master the sitar, partly under Shankar's tutelage. The song is in 4/4 time throughout; its structure consists of an intro, three combinations of verse and chorus, followed by repeated choruses. While MacDonald gives the musical key as \"C major (minor, diminished)\", musicologist Alan Pollack views it as a mix of C major and C modal, and comments on the \"highly unusual\" incorporation of the notes D and F. The inclusion of the latter note suggests the Lydian mode, which, according to musicologist Walter Everett, had only been heard previously in popular music in the Left Banke's 1966 single \"Pretty Ballerina\".\nThe song's melody oscillates over the chords of C major and C diminished, a chord favoured by Harrison in his Indian music-inspired compositions for the Beatles. Acknowledging Harrison's statement that the tune is \"slightly Indian\", Everett considers \"Blue Jay Way\" to be related to Kosalam and Multani – ragas from, respectively, the Carnatic and Hindustani traditions of Indian classical music. Alternatively, ethnomusicologist David Reck says the melody uses the scale from the Carnatic raga Ranjani, while according to author Simon Leng, Harrison based the song partly on the Hindustani Raga Marwa. Following the inclusion of a raga-style introduction (or alap) in his previous Indian compositions, \"Love You To\" and \"Within You Without You\", \"Blue Jay Way\" begins with a preview of the song's melody played softly, in free time, over the opening drone. Author Ian Inglis credits the song's incorporation of ambient drone, specifically its role in providing \"an anchorage point for vocal and instrumental improvisation\", as one of the first examples of a musical device that soon became prevalent in the work of Fairport Convention, the Incredible String Band and other folk artists.\n\nThe length of the verses falls short of an even eight bars through the omission of a final beat. Pollack recognises this detail as reflecting a sense of impatience, in keeping with the circumstances surrounding the song's creation. Following the third verse–chorus combination, the outro comprises four rounds of the chorus, with the lyrics to the final round consisting of the repeated \"Don't be long\" refrain. As a feature that Pollack terms \"compositionally impressive\", each of the four sections in this outro varies in structure by being either shorter in length or less musically detailed.\n\nThe lyrics to \"Blue Jay Way\" relate entirely to Harrison's situation on that first night in Los Angeles. He refers to fighting off sleep and recalls his advice to Taylor to ask a policeman for directions to Blue Jay Way. Author Jonathan Gould views the song as \"darkly funny\", with the singer's concern over his friends' tardiness almost resembling \"a metaphysical crisis\". In the choruses, Harrison repeatedly urges \"Please don't be long / Please don't you be very long\", a refrain that Inglis identifies as central to the composition's \"extraordinary sense of yearning and melancholy\".\n\nTaylor later expressed amusement at how some commentators interpreted \"don't be long\" as meaning \"don't belong\" – a message to Western youth to opt out of society – and at how the line \"And my friends have lost their way\" supposedly conveyed the idea that \"a whole generation had lost direction\". With regard to whether Harrison was telling contemporary listeners not to \"belong\", Inglis writes, this \"alternative reading\" of the song aligned with Timothy Leary's catchphrase for the 1960s American psychedelic experience, \"Turn on, tune in, drop out\". In Gould's opinion, the continual repetition of the line at the end of \"Blue Jay Way\" transforms the words into \"a plea for nonattachment – 'don't belong'\". Rather than attaching any countercultural significance to this, however, Gould views it as the Beatles repeating the wordplay first used in the chorus of Lennon's 1963 song \"It Won't Be Long\".\n\nThe Beatles began recording \"Blue Jay Way\" on 6 September 1967 at EMI Studios (now Abbey Road Studios) in London. The song was Harrison's contribution to the television film \"Magical Mystery Tour\", the first project undertaken by the band following the death of their manager, Brian Epstein. Author Nicholas Schaffner describes \"Blue Jay Way\" as the first Harrison-written Beatles recording on which he \"adapt[ed] some of his Indian-derived ideas to a more Western setting\" through the choice of musical instruments. In the song's arrangement, Hammond organ re-creates the drone of a tambura, while a cello acts as an Indian sarod.\n\nThe group achieved a satisfactory rhythm track in a single take. On 7 September, this recording – comprising two organ parts, bass guitar and drums – was reduced to two tracks on the 4-track master tape, after which Harrison overdubbed his double-tracked lead vocal, and he, Lennon and Paul McCartney added backing vocals. Among Beatles biographers, MacDonald credits Harrison as the sole organ player on the song, while Kenneth Womack and John Winn write that Lennon played the second keyboard part. Recording was completed at Abbey Road on 6 October, with the addition of tambourine, played by Ringo Starr, and cello. The latter was performed by an unnamed session musician. As with all the songs recorded for \"Magical Mystery Tour\", final mixing was carried out on 7 November.\n\n\"Blue Jay Way\" features extensive use of three studio techniques employed by the Beatles over 1966–67: flanging, an audio delay effect; sound-signal rotation via a Leslie speaker; and (in the stereo mix only) reversed tapes. Beatles historian Mark Lewisohn compares \"Blue Jay Way\" with two Lennon tracks from this period, \"Strawberry Fields Forever\" and \"I Am the Walrus\", in that the recording \"seized upon all the studio trickery and technical advancements of 1966 and 1967 and captured them in one song\". Together with the pedal drone supplied by the keyboard parts, the various sound treatments reinforce the sense of dislocation evident in the song.\n\nIn the case of the reversed-tape technique, a recording of the completed track was played backwards and faded in at key points during the performance. This effect created a response to Harrison's lead vocal over the verses, as the backing vocals appear to answer each line he sings. Due to the limits of multitracking, the process of feeding in reversed sounds was carried out live during the final mixing session. Described by Lewisohn as \"quite problematical\", the process was not repeated when the Beatles and their production team worked on the mono mix.\n\nThe song's segment in \"Magical Mystery Tour\" was shot mainly at RAF West Malling, an air force base near Maidstone in Kent, during the week beginning on 19 September. Described by Womack as \"the movie's hazy, psychedelic sequence\", it features Harrison sitting on a pavement and playing a chalk-drawn keyboard. Dressed in a red suit, he is shown busking on a roadside; next to his keyboard are a white plastic cup and a message written in chalk, reading: \"2 wives and kid to support\". The depiction of Harrison, seated cross-legged, matched his public image as the most committed of the Beatles to Transcendental Meditation and Eastern philosophy.\nThe filming took place in an aircraft hangar, with the scene designed to re-create a typically smog-ridden Los Angeles. Music journalist Kit O'Toole writes that the smoke surrounding Harrison \"almost engulf[s] him, mimicking the 'fog' described in the lyrics\".<ref name=\"O'Toole/SomethingElse\"></ref> Through the use of prismatic photography, the \"Blue Jay Way\" segment also shows Harrison's \"image refracted as if seen through a fly's eye\", according to author Alan Clayson, who describes the scene as mirroring \"the requisite misty atmosphere\" suggested by the recording. In its preview of \"Magical Mystery Tour\" in 1967, the \"NME\" highlighted the segment as one of the film's \"extremely clever\" musical sequences, saying: \"For 'Blue Jay Way' George is seen sitting cross-legged in a sweating mist which materialises into a variety of shapes and patterns. It's a pity that most TV viewers will be able to see it only in black and white.\"\n\nAt other times during the sequence, the four Beatles alternate in the role of a solo cellist. These scenes were filmed on 3 November, on the rockery at Sunny Heights, Starr's house in Weybridge, Surrey. Tony Barrow, the band's press officer, recalled that as \"a colourful conclusion\" to the segment, they set off fireworks that had been bought for the upcoming Guy Fawkes Night celebrations. The version of \"Blue Jay Way\" appearing in the 2012 DVD release of \"Magical Mystery Tour\" is an alternative edit and includes some previously unused footage. O'Toole admires the \"Blue Jay Way\" sequence as \"one of the film's too-few bright spots\" and \"a perfect representation of the track's hallucinatory qualities\".\n\n\"Blue Jay Way\" was issued in Britain as the final song on the \"Magical Mystery Tour\" double EP on 8 December 1967. In America, where Capitol Records combined the six EP tracks with five songs issued on the band's singles throughout the year, creating a full album, the release took place on 27 November. Reck comments that despite the Beatles' association with the Maharishi and Eastern culture, only two of the six new songs – \"Blue Jay Way\" and \"I Am the Walrus\" – directly reflected this interest.\n\nReviewing the EP for the \"NME\", Nick Logan considered it to be \"Sergeant Pepper and beyond, heading for marvellous places\", during which \"we cruise down 'Blue Jay Way' with [Harrison] almost chanting the chorus line. A church organ starts this one off and leads us into a whirlpool of sound ...\" Bob Dawbarn of \"Melody Maker\" lauded the record as \"six tracks which no other pop group in the world could begin to approach for originality combined with the popular touch\". He said \"Blue Jay Way\" had the \"requisite Eastern overtones\" and was a \"sinister little tune\", which made it the hardest track to appreciate immediately.\n\nAmong reviews of the US release, Mike Jahn of \"Saturday Review\" admired the album as a \"description of the Beatles' acquired Hindu philosophy and its subsequent application to everyday life\", while \"Hit Parader\" praised the band for further \"widening the gap between them and 80 scillion other groups\". The reviewer added, with reference to the concurrently issued \"Their Satanic Majesties Request\" by the Rolling Stones: \"The master magicians practice their alchemy on Harrison's 'Blue Jay Way', recorded perhaps in an Egyptian tomb, and 'I Am The Walrus', a piece of terror lurking in foggy midnight moors. These two songs accomplish what the Stones attempted.\"\n\nRichard Goldstein of \"The New York Times\" rued that, more so than \"Sgt. Pepper\", the soundtrack demonstrated the Beatles' departure from true rock values in favour of studio effects, and he found artifice in the \"waft of foggy music\" accompanying Harrison's declaration that \"There's a fog upon LA\". Typically of Harrison's recent songs, Goldstein continued, \"Blue Jay Way\" was \"filled with fascinating tones and textures\" but the message was confused and laboured, and he complained that it was sung with a vocal that was \"[more] sandpaper than Satori\". Rex Reed, in a highly unfavourable review of the album for \"HiFi/Stereo Review\", said the song \"consists of three minutes and fifty seconds of the Beatles sounding as if they are singing under water or gargling with Listerine\" and dismissed it as \"boring as hell\". By contrast, Robert Christgau wrote in \"Esquire\" that, despite three of the new songs being \"disappointing\", \"Magical Mystery Tour\" was \"worth buying ... especially for Harrison's hypnotic 'Blue Jay Way'\". Christgau described the track as \"an adaptation of Oriental modes in which everything works, lyrics included\".\n\nA critic of the Beatles' output immediately post-\"Sgt. Pepper\",<ref name=\"Harris/Mojo\"></ref> Ian MacDonald found \"Blue Jay Way\" \"as unfocused and monotonous as most of the group's output of this period\", adding that the song \"numbingly fails to transcend the weary boredom that inspired it\". Writing for \"Rolling Stone\" in 2002, Greg Kot considered it to be \"one of [Harrison's] least-memorable Beatles tracks … a song essentially about boredom – and it sounds like it\". Similarly unimpressed with \"Magical Mystery Tour\", Tim Riley describes \"Blue Jay Way\" as a song that \"goes nowhere tiresomely\", with a vocal that \"sounds as tired and droning\" as the musical accompaniment. In Walter Everett's view, the track's combination of unusual musical scales, reversed tape sounds and imaginative engineering makes it \"the most mysterious Beatles sound between 'Strawberry Fields Forever' and 'Glass Onion'\", but the lyrics are \"dull\" by comparison.\n\nIan Inglis writes that the emotion Harrison conveys on the track \"belies its apparently trivial lyrics\" and that, together with the instrumentation and backing vocals, his pleas \"create an unusually atmospheric and strangely moving song\". Writing for Rough Guides, Chris Ingham deems the song to be \"essential Beatlemusic\"; he views it as Harrison's \"most haunting and convincing musical contribution of the period\", after \"Within You Without You\", as well as \"possibly the most unnerving of all Beatles tracks\". In a 2002 review for \"Mojo\", Charles Shaar Murray described the song as \"eerie, serpentine\" and \"a fine and worthy companion for \"Pepper\"s Within You Without You\".<ref name=\"CSM/Mojo\">Shaar Murray, Charles. \"\"Magical Mystery Tour\": All Aboard the Magic Bus\". In: .</ref> Writing in \"Uncut\" that same year, Carol Clerk called it \"a weirdly atmospheric triumph\".\nIn his book \"Indian Music and the West\", Gerry Farrell refers to the song when discussing its author's contribution to popularising Indian classical music, writing: \"It is a mark of Harrison's sincere involvement with Indian music that, nearly thirty years on, the Beatles' 'Indian' songs remain among the most imaginative and successful examples of this type of fusion – for example, 'Blue Jay Way' and 'The Inner Light.'\" Simon Leng writes of the song: \"Harrison was working at a sophisticated level of extrapolating Indian scales to the Western setting, something no one else had done … 'Blue Jay Way' explores the structures of Indian music just as 'Within You Without You' debates its philosophical roots.\" Former \"Record Collector\" editor Peter Doggett, writing in Barry Miles' \"The Beatles Diary\", similarly admires the recording, saying that the Beatles rendered the song \"an exotic, almost mystical journey\" that evokes a mysterious Eastern mood \"without a single Indian instrument being employed\". Music critic Jim DeRogatis ranks \"Blue Jay Way\" at number 7 in his list of the Beatles' best psychedelic rock songs.\n\nIn a 2009 review for \"Consequence of Sound\", Dan Caffrey highlights the track among the \"stellar moments in the album's first half\" and considers it to be \"George Harrison's most underrated song\". Caffrey adds: \"For a piece inspired by the simple act of waiting for a friend to arrive at his Los Angeles home on a foggy night, 'Blue Jay Way' is a haunted house of a hit, adding an ethereal, creepy mythos to the City of Angels.\"<ref name=\"Caffrey/CoS\"></ref> Writing for \"The A.V. Club\", Chuck Klosterman describes the song as being among \"the trippiest ... material [the Beatles] ever made\", while Mark Kemp of \"Paste\" views it as \"wonderfully wobbly\". Scott Plagenhoef of \"Pitchfork\" includes \"Blue Jay Way\" among the EP's four \"low-key marvels\", saying: \"Few of them are anyone's all-time favorite Beatles songs ... yet this run seems to achieve a majesty in part because of that: It's a rare stretch of amazing Beatles music that can seem like a private obsession rather than a permanent part of our shared culture.\"\n\nIn 2001, the song was ranked 39th on \"Uncut\"s list of \"The 50 Greatest Beatles Tracks\". \"Q\" magazine included it in their list of \"The 500 Greatest Lost Tracks\", published in 2007. In 2018, the music staff of \"Time Out London\" ranked \"Blue Jay Way\" at number 46 on their list of the best Beatles songs.\n\nLord Sitar included \"Blue Jay Way\" on his 1968 album of Indian music-style recordings, titled \"Lord Sitar\". The artist credit was a pseudonym for London session guitarist Big Jim Sullivan, although rumours circulated that Lord Sitar was in fact Harrison himself, partly as a result of EMI/Capitol's refusal to deny the claim. Also in 1968, jazz saxophonist and flautist Bud Shank, another associate of Ravi Shankar, recorded the song for his album \"Magical Mystery\".\n\n\"Blue Jay Way\" was a rare Beatles song released before their 1968 self-titled double album that Charles Manson adopted as part of his theory of an impending social revolution in the United States, a scenario that led to his followers carrying out a series of murders in Los Angeles during the summer of 1969. Finding parallels between the Beatles' lyrics and the Book of Revelation, and believing himself to be the messiah, Manson interpreted Harrison's opening verse and chorus as the Beatles calling out to Jesus Christ.\nColin Newman, singer and guitarist with the post-punk band Wire, included a cover of \"Blue Jay Way\" on his 1982 solo album \"Not To\". In March 2015, the song was his selection for the \"NME\" \"100 Greatest Beatles Songs\" poll. Newman cited the track as an example of how the Beatles were \"properly serious about their art\" and why they now \"need to be rescued from the clammy clutches of the heritage industry\".\n\nBorbetomagus released a live recording of the song on their 1992 album \"Buncha Hair That Long\", a version that \"Trouser Press\" later said \"could easily reunite the Beatles for good if it were played in the presence of the surviving trio\". On their 2003 live album \"Seven Year Itch\", Siouxsie and the Banshees included a reading that, according to \"The Guardian\"s reviewer, \"transformed [the song] into an apocalyptic howl\". Other artists who have covered \"Blue Jay Way\" include Tracy Bonham, on her 2007 album \"In the City + In the Woods\", and the Secret Machines, whose version appears in the Julie Taymor-directed film \"Across the Universe\" (2007). Former Cars keyboardist Greg Hawkes recorded a ukulele rendition for his 2008 solo album \"The Beatles Uke\".\nHarrison's experience when writing \"Blue Jay Way\" is referenced in the Jonathan Kellerman novel \"Obsession\" (2007), as the lead character, Alex Delaware, waits among the \"bird streets\" overlooking Sunset Strip. The US hip hop group Death Grips included a reversed sample of \"Blue Jay Way\" as well as a quote from the song's lyrics in their 2012 track \"Double Helix\", released on \"The Money Store\", an album that \"Clash\" magazine described as sounding like \"the burning skies of LA's decaying empire\".\n\nIn a 2011 interview, music producer and radio host Kim Fowley identified \"Blue Jay Way\" as the first song in which a member of the Beatles wrote about America and cited it as evidence of Harrison's standing as \"the most American of all the Beatles\" during the 1960s. Fowley highlighted this connection – including Harrison's friendships with David Crosby of the Byrds and other California-based musicians, such as Leon Russell – as the foundation for rock music's first all-star charity concert, the Concert for Bangladesh, which Harrison staged in New York in August 1971.\n\nDue to the attention created by the Beatles' song, the street signs for Blue Jay Way have long been collector's items for fans visiting the Hollywood Hills. In May 2015, a lane in the Heavitree area of Exeter, in the English county of Devon, was named Blue Jay Way after the song. In addition to much of the filming for \"Magical Mystery Tour\" having taken place at various locations in the West Country, the title commemorates the Beatles' three concert appearances at Exeter's ABC Cinema over 1963–64.\nAccording to Ian MacDonald, except where noted:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2248354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248354", "title": "Your Mother Should Know", "text": "Your Mother Should Know\n\n\"Your Mother Should Know\" is a song by the English rock band the Beatles from their 1967 EP and LP \"Magical Mystery Tour\". It was written by Paul McCartney and credited to Lennon–McCartney. Titled after a line in the 1961 film \"A Taste of Honey\", its lyrical premise centres on the history of hit songs across generations. McCartney said he wrote it as a plea for generational understanding and respect for a mother's life experience. In the \"Magical Mystery Tour\" television film, the song serves as a big production number in the style of a 1930s Hollywood musical. Some commentators view the sequence as cultural satire, as the Beatles are seen dancing and dressed in white tuxedos.\n\n\"Your Mother Should Know\" is in the music hall style, further to McCartney's earlier composition \"When I'm Sixty-Four\". He first offered it as the Beatles' contribution to the \"Our World\" satellite broadcast in June 1967, but the band favoured John Lennon's \"All You Need Is Love\" for its social significance. The initial sessions for the song took place at Chappell Recording Studios in London towards the end of August. The group were visited there by their manager, Brian Epstein, a visit that marked the last time he joined them in the studio before his death on 27 August.\n\nPaul McCartney began writing \"Your Mother Should Know\" on a harmonium at his house in St John's Wood, London. He wrote it in the company of his Aunty Jin and Uncle Harry, and drew from his father's love of music hall. The conversation he had with his family members that day inspired the subject matter of the song.<ref name=\"O'Toole/SomethingNew\"></ref> Its lyrical premise centres on the history of hit songs across generations. McCartney took the title from a line in the 1961 film \"A Taste of Honey\", which tells of a white teenage girl who falls pregnant with a black man's child and withholds the pregnancy from her domineering mother.<ref name=\"Fontenot/About\"></ref>\n\nDiscussing \"Your Mother Should Know\" in his 1997 authorised biography, \"Many Years from Now\", McCartney said he sought to address the issue of generation barriers. He lamented how an argument between a mother and her child could have enduring consequences for their relationship, and added: \"So I was advocating peace between the generations ... I was basically trying to say, your mother might know more than you think she does. Give her credit.\"\n\nMcCartney said he envisaged the song as a \"production number\" while planning the Beatles' 1967 television film \"Magical Mystery Tour\". After the band finished recording the film's title song in May that year, the project lay dormant since John Lennon and George Harrison had little enthusiasm for it. McCartney first offered \"Your Mother Should Know\" as the Beatles' contribution to the \"Our World\" satellite broadcast in June, but the band favoured Lennon's \"All You Need Is Love\" for its social significance.\n\nOn the Beatles' recording, \"Your Mother Should Know\" is performed in the key of A minor and its time signature is 4/4. The use of piano crotchet chords is typical of McCartney's compositions of the time, starting with \"Got to Get You into My Life\" in 1966. The song's rhythm suggests a foxtrot, a quality it shares with \"Catcall\" (formerly titled \"Catwalk\"), a McCartney-written instrumental recorded by Chris Barber's trad jazz band in July 1967. Musicologist Walter Everett comments that the two pieces also share a similar \"syncopated ascending octave-arpeggiation of a minor triad\". The composition consists of verse-chorus sections contrasted by instrumental bridges.<ref name=\"Pollack/Soundscapes\"></ref> One of the verse-choruses includes vocalised \"da-da-da\"s in place of lyrics, representing the singalong tradition of music hall.\n\nAccording to music historian Joe Harrington, the song is an example of rock music's embrace of vaudeville in the late 1960s, which was part of the genre's development away from its rock 'n' roll roots in favour of eclecticism and a more artistic aesthetic. The song's music hall aspect recalls McCartney's \"When I'm Sixty-Four\" from the Beatles' \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\" album. Its lyrical theme repeats the sympathetic portrayal of a parent offered in \"She's Leaving Home\" from the same album. In author Doyle Greene's view, whereas \"She's Leaving Home\" conveys sympathy for a teenage runaway and her parents, the generational understanding espoused in \"Your Mother Should Know\" is more one-sided and suggests \"maternal authority and youth compliance\".\n\nThe Beatles began recording \"Your Mother Should Know\" on 22 August 1967, their first session in close to two months. The recording took place at Chappell Recording Studios in central London because EMI Studios was unavailable at short notice. Although the Beatles had never worked at Chappell before, McCartney had participated in the session there for \"Catcall\" the previous month.\n\nRecording continued at Chappell on 23 August. The overdubs included backing vocals by Lennon, McCartney and Harrison, which, according to music critic Tim Riley, give the performance a \"parodic irreverence\". This session marked the last time that Brian Epstein, the group's manager, visited them in a recording studio. Following Epstein's death on 27 August, the Beatles committed to making \"Magical Mystery Tour\" as McCartney insisted the band needed to focus on a new creative project.\n\nThe Beatles devoted a 16 September session at EMI Studios to remaking \"Your Mother Should Know\" since McCartney was dissatisfied with the earlier version. The remake was discarded, however, as he and Lennon completed overdubs on the Chappell recording on 29 September. McCartney added bass guitar while Lennon overdubbed Hammond organ, the latter filling out the song's vocal-less bridge sections. Mixing was completed on 7 November, with panning variation applied to the vocals in the stereo mix.\n\nIn the \"Magical Mystery Tour\" film, the song supports an old-fashioned dance segment that McCartney called \"the Busby Berkeley ending\". It was filmed on 24 September, at the end of a six-day shoot at RAF West Malling, a Royal Air Force base in Kent. McCartney had intended to shoot the scene at Shepperton Studios, outside London, but the Beatles failed to appreciate that film studios needed to be booked in advance. Tony Bramwell, the film's production manager, recalled having a staircase assembled on scaffolding inside a disused aircraft hangar for the sequence, which was the most elaborate set piece in the film. Around 160 dancers from Peggy Spencer's formation dancing team and 24 female RAF cadets were hired as extras. The formation dancers were regulars on the TV show \"Come Dancing\" and were brought in by bus from Birmingham, Cardiff and Newcastle for the shoot. According to Maurice Gibb of the Bee Gees, McCartney got the idea for the Beatles' costumes from seeing him perform in concert with the Bee Gees, dressed all in white. The band rehearsed their dance routine for most of the day but the generators failed just as filming got underway. Gavrik Losey, a production assistant on the film, said that the dancers were \"bribed\" with Beatles autographs into staying late while the generators were repaired.\nThe sequence starts with the Beatles coming down a grand staircase in white tuxedoes. After they descend, a line of female RAF cadets march through the shot and the band then continue to mime to the song, surrounded by a crowd of ballroom dancers. Lennon, Harrison and Ringo Starr are wearing red carnations, while McCartney's is black. The carnation difference later contributed to the \"Paul is dead\" urban legend. Towards the end, McCartney steps forward from his bandmates and indulges in a dance of his own while the others continue the basic routine. Greene writes that, in contrast to McCartney's obvious enjoyment, Lennon and Harrison's facial expressions suggest \"they'd rather be anywhere else\" than filming the scene.\n\nAccording to film studies academic Bob Neaverson, the sequence is a pastiche of 1930s Hollywood musicals, particularly Berkeley's \"Gold Diggers\" series of films. In Greene's view, the sequence masks the sense of old-fashioned compliance in \"Your Mother Should Know\". He cites the entrance of the young RAF cadets, amid the throng of formally dressed dancers, as an example of the scene having \"a satirical undercurrent and [addressing] the fissures of late 1960s politics\". Film-maker Anthony Wall, commenting on the 2012 DVD reissue of \"Magical Mystery Tour\", also recognised the sequence as a subtle satire of British culture. He said of the Beatles: \"All this \"Come Dancing\" stuff, the girls in uniforms, and coming down a staircase in white suits is kind of ridiculous, but they're also revelling in the peculiarity of it.\"<ref name=\"Harris/Guardian\"></ref>\n\n\"Your Mother Should Know\" and the five other songs from the film were compiled for release on the \"Magical Mystery Tour\" double EP, except in the United States. There, Capitol Records chose to augment the line-up with the Beatles' non-album single tracks from 1967 and create an LP. The Capitol release took place on 27 November 1967, while Parlophone issued the EP on 8 December. Already familiar to fans before the film's debut, the soundtrack record was a commercial success.\n\nThe BBC scheduled \"Magical Mystery Tour\" for prime-time viewing during the Christmas holiday season, where regular programming usually consisted of family sitcoms and variety shows. The film was broadcast in the UK on BBC1 on 26 December, but in black and white rather than colour. It was savaged by reviewers, earning the Beatles their first public and critical failure. As a result of the unfavourable reviews, networks in the US declined to show the film there.\n\nAccording to author Barry Miles, \"Magical Mystery Tour\" baffled the British public as \"many viewers were assuming that the show would be the kind of song-and-dance spectacular that the closing 'Your Mother Should Know' sequence satirised.\" Peter Brown, an executive at Epstein's company NEMS, was critical of the project's disorganisation and McCartney's extravagance when filming his \"top hat and cane dance number\" and the segment for \"The Fool on the Hill\"; he said that \"If Brian had been alive, it never would have happened the way it did.\"\n\nBob Dawbarn of \"Melody Maker\" described the \"Magical Mystery Tour\" EP as \"six tracks which no other pop group in the world could begin to approach for originality combined with the popular touch\". He said that \"Your Mother Should Know\" was \"one of the two most instantly attractive songs\", the other being \"The Fool on the Hill\", with \"a tune that sticks in the memory first time round\". In \"Record Mirror\", Norman Jopling wrote: \"'Your Mother Should Know' is [a] medium tempo ballad with a corny sort of tune – but the atmosphere developed is fantastic. It's a hazy, stoned kind of sensation which reminds you of hearing old tunes, in smoky rooms ...\"\n\nAmong reviews of the American LP, Richard Goldstein of \"The New York Times\" complained that the new songs furthered the \"electronic posturing\" of \"Sgt. Pepper\" and showed the Beatles overly focused on motif and overall effect. He said that \"Magical Mystery Tour\" and \"its nostalgic refrain, 'Your Mother Should Know'\" were \"motifs disguised as songs\", adding: \"Both declare their moods (in stock musical phrases) but neither succeeds in establishing them. Instead, these cuts are as tedious and stuffy as an after-dinner speech.\" Writing in \"Esquire\", Robert Christgau considered three of the soundtrack songs to be \"disappointing\", particularly \"The Fool on the Hill\", but cited the \"tender camp of 'Your Mother Should Know'\" as one of the reasons to buy the album. Rex Reed, in a highly unfavourable review of the LP for \"HiFi/Stereo Review\", did not care for the track at all, calling it \"nothing more than a Gaslight Era cabaret tune full of da-das and yeah-yeahs\".\n\nIn Tim Riley's view, the \"Magical Mystery Tour\" songs are largely uninspired recreations of \"Sgt. Pepper\", and he describes \"Your Mother Should Know\" as \"'When I'm Sixty-Four' in knickers\". He says that although the harmonic ideas are \"bright and clever\", the instrumental bridges interrupt rather than complement the verses, and the inclusion of the \"da-da-da\" singalong \"make[s] it sound like a demo with dummy lyrics\". Jonathan Gould also sees the soundtrack as a lesser version of \"Sgt. Pepper\" and describes \"Your Mother Should Know\" as a \"halfhearted attempt at satiric nostalgia in the style of 'When I'm Sixty-Four'\". He says the song appears unfinished and while it served its purpose in the film, and shows Starr to be \"the leading vaudeville drummer in rock\", the track is \"lackluster\" on record. Ian MacDonald considers the stereo panning to be innovative but also a ruse \"to conceal the fact that its author hadn't managed to think up a middle eight\". He views this as indicative of the effects of McCartney's LSD intake in the months following \"Sgt. Pepper\", notwithstanding his efforts to arrest the Beatles' apathy when they regrouped after their summer break to record the track.\n\nThe song has been covered by artists such as Kenny Ball and His Jazzmen, Phyllis Newman, Bud Shank, Travis Shook and Mike Batt. In 1989, \"Weird Al\" Yankovic parodied the \"Magical Mystery Tour\" dance sequence in his music video for the title track of his album \"UHF – Original Motion Picture Soundtrack and Other Stuff\".\n\nThe Beatles' discarded remake of the song was included on their 1996 outtakes compilation \"Anthology 2\". The arrangement includes McCartney playing harmonium, rather than piano, and what music critic Richie Unterberger calls \"the peculiar use of stilted, martial drumming\" by Starr. McCartney first performed \"Your Mother Should Know\" in concert on 4 May 2013, when he opened his Out There! world tour at the Estádio Mineirão in Belo Horizonte, Brazil.\n\nAccording to Ian MacDonald:\n\n\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "2248362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248362", "title": "Corvin Castle", "text": "Corvin Castle\n\nCorvin Castle, also known as Hunyadi Castle or Hunedoara Castle (Romanian: \"Castelul Huniazilor\" or \"Castelul Corvinilor;\" Hungarian: \"Vajdahunyadi vár\"), is a Gothic-Renaissance castle in Hunedoara, Romania. It is one of the largest castles in Europe and figures in a list of the Seven Wonders of Romania.\n\nCorvin Castle was laid out in 1446, when construction began on the orders of Voivode of Transylvania John Hunyadi (, ) who wanted to transform the former keep built by Charles I of Hungary. The castle was originally given to John Hunyadi's father, Voyk (Vajk), by Sigismund of Luxembourg, king of Hungary and Croatia, as severance in 1409. It was also in 1446 that John Hunyadi was elected as the regent-governor by the Diet.\n\nBuilt in a Renaissance-Gothic style and constructed over the site of an older fortification on a rock above the smaller Zlaști River, the castle is a large and imposing structure with tall towers, bastions, an inner courtyard, diversely coloured roofs, and myriads of windows and balconies adorned with stone carvings. The castle also features a double wall for enhanced fortification and is flanked by both rectangular and circular towers, an architectural innovation for the period's Transylvanian architecture. Some of the towers (the Capistrano Tower, the Deserted Tower and the Drummers' Tower) were used as prisons. The Buzdugan Tower (a type of mace after which it was named) was solely built for defensive purposes and it had its exterior decorated with geometric motifs. The rectangular shaped towers have large openings to accommodate larger weapons.\n\nThe castle has 3 large areas: the Knight's Hall, the Diet Hall and the circular stairway. The halls are rectangular in shape and are decorated with marble. The Diet Hall was used for ceremonies or formal receptions whilst the Knight's Hall was used for feasts. In 1456, John Hunyadi died and work on the castle stagnated. Starting with 1458, new commissions were being undergone to construct the Matia Wing of the castle. In 1480, work was completely stopped on the castle and it was recognised as being one of the biggest and most impressive buildings in Eastern Europe.\n\nThe 16th century did not bring any improvements to the castle, but during the 17th century new additions were made, for aesthetic and military purposes. \nAesthetically, the new Large Palace was built facing the town. A two level building, it hosted living chamber and a large living area.\nFor military purposes, two new towers were constructed: the White Tower and the Artillery Tower. Also, the external yard was added, used for administration and storage.\n\nThe current castle is the result of a fanciful restoration campaign undertaken after a disastrous fire and many decades of total neglect. It has been noted that modern \"architects projected to it their own wistful interpretations of how a great Gothic castle should look\".\n\nAs one of the most important properties of John Hunyadi, the castle was transformed during his reign. It became a sumptuous home, not only a strategically enforced point. With the passing of the years, the masters of the castle had modified its look, adding towers, halls and guest rooms. The gallery and the keep - the last defense tower (called \"Neboisa\" which means \"Don't be afraid\" in Serbo-Croatian language), which remained unchanged from John Hunyadi's time, and the Capistrano Tower (named after the saint, Franciscan friar from the Battle of Belgrade in 1456) are some of the most significant parts of the construction. Other significant parts of the building are the Knights' Hall (a great reception hall), the Club Tower, the White bastion, which served as a food storage room, and the Diet Hall, on whose walls medallions are painted (among them there are the portraits of Matei Basarab, ruler from Wallachia, and Vasile Lupu, ruler of Moldavia). In the wing of the castle called the Mantle, a painting can be seen which portrays the legend of the raven from which the name of the descendants of John Hunyadi, Corvinus came.\n\nTourists are told that it was the place where Vlad the Impaler, Prince of Wallachia, was held prisoner by John Hunyadi, Hungary's military leader and regent during the King's minority. Later, Vlad III entered a political alliance with John Hunyadi, although the latter was responsible for the execution of his father, Vlad II Dracul. Because of these links, the Hunedoara Castle is sometimes mentioned as a source of inspiration for Castle Dracula in Bram Stoker's 1897 horror novel \"Dracula\". In fact, Stoker neither knew about Vlad's alliance with Hunyadi, nor about Hunyadi's castle. Instead, Stoker's own handwritten research notes confirm that the novelist imagined Castle Dracula to be situated on an empty top in the Transylvanian Călimani Mountains near the former border with Moldavia.\n\nIn the castle yard, near the 15th-century chapel, there is a well 30 meters deep. According to the legend, this fountain was dug by 3 Turkish prisoners to whom liberty was promised if they reached water. After 15 years they completed the well, but their captors did not keep their promise. It is said that the inscription on a wall of the well means \"you have water, but not soul\". Specialists, however, have translated the inscription as \"he who wrote this inscription is Hasan, who lives as slave of the giaours, in the fortress near the church\".\n\nIn October 2001, Corvin Castle was featured in an episode of Fox Family Channel's \"Scariest Places on Earth\", where a family was sent overnight alone with cameras.\n\nIn February 2007, Corvin Castle played host to the British paranormal television program \"Most Haunted Live!\" for a three-night live investigation into the spirits reported to be haunting the castle. Results were inconclusive.\n\nIn 2013, the television show \"Ghost Adventures\" filmed an episode at the castle as part of their Halloween special. The castle has been also featured in the video game Age of Empires II HD The Forgotten as a civilization wonder.\n\nThe final action sequence (climax) for the 2015 Bollywood movie \"Singh Is Bling \" starring Akshay Kumar was shot at the castle.\n\nIn 2016, beginning in April, scenes for \"\" were filmed at the castle for months.\nIn 2018, the castle was used as the \"Cârța Monastery\" in the horror movie \"The Nun\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2248370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248370", "title": "Peace Cup", "text": "Peace Cup\n\nThe Peace Cup was an invitational pre-season friendly football tournament for club teams which was held every two years by the Sunmoon Peace Football Foundation. It was usually contested by eight clubs from several continents, though 12 teams participated in 2009. The first three competitions were held in South Korea, and the 2009 Peace Cup was held in Madrid and Andalusia, Spain. Previous winners are PSV, Tottenham Hotspur, Lyon, Aston Villa, and Hamburger SV, who were the final champions.\n\nThe tournament was originally organised and held in South Korea and contested in 2003, 2005, and 2007 between eight clubs from various countries, including the Seongnam Ilhwa Chunma, which is owned by the organizing company.\n\nA corresponding event featuring women's national teams, the Peace Queen Cup, began in 2006.\n\nSince 2003, the Peace Cup is being held every two years, the Sunmoon Peace Football Foundation invites football clubs from various nations. South Korea's Seongnam Ilhwa Chunma participates in every tournament as both the club and foundation are sponsored by the same organization, the Unification Church.\nFrom 2003 to 2007, the Peace Cup was played between eight clubs, divided into two groups of four teams. The winner of each group qualified for the final, which was played in a single match. 2009 Peace Cup Andalucia was held in Spain, and 12 teams participated in the competition.\nThe fifth competition took place in South Korea in July 2012. In October 2012, it was announced that the Peace Cup will no longer be held, following the death of Unification Church founder Sun Myung Moon.\n\nThe original name of the competition was to be Sunmoon Peace Cup, named after Sun Myung Moon, the founder of the Sunmoon Peace Football Foundation. However, after being criticized that it was too religious, the organization changed its name to World Peace King Cup and started preparation for its first tournament. Before the inauguration of the cup, the Asian Football Confederation warned that the term \"world\" can only be used by competitions organized by FIFA, and \"king\" can be used by competitions held by a kingdom.\n\nFrom 2003 to 2007, the prize money of the tournament was approximately €2 million for the winning team and €500,000 for the runners-up.\n\nThe Golden ball is awarded to the player on the basis of a vote taken among the media accredited to each Peace Cup tournament. There are also Silver Ball and Bronze Ball for the second and third best players respectively.\n\n"}
{"id": "2248375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248375", "title": "2005 World Games", "text": "2005 World Games\n\nThe 2005 World Games, the seventh World Games, were an international multi-sport event held in Duisburg, Germany from 14 July 2005 until 24 July 2005. Three other cities, namely Bottrop, Mülheim an der Ruhr, and Oberhausen, also held some of the competition events. More than 3,000 athletes competed in nearly 40 disciplines of 26 non-Olympic sports.\n\n\n\nThe medal tally during the seventh World Games is as follows. Russia won the most gold medals and tied with Germany in overall medals won in this edition's official sports. There was a tie for second place in one sport climbing event (two silver and no bronze medals awarded). Two bronze medals were awarded in each of the two squash events.\n\n"}
{"id": "2248379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248379", "title": "Felip Pedrell", "text": "Felip Pedrell\n\nFelip Pedrell Sabaté (Spanish: Felipe) (19 February 1841 – 19 August 1922) was a Spanish composer, guitarist and musicologist.\n\nPedrell was born in Tortosa (Catalonia), and sang as a boy soprano at Tortosa Cathedral from age 9, where he also received most of his musical education from its chapel master Joan Nin i Serra (1804–1867). On 29 September 1867 he married Carmen Domingo, with whom he had one daughter, also named Carmen.\n\nIn 1873 he went to Barcelona where he co-directed a zarzuela troupe and studied the guitar with José Brocá. As a guitarist, he became deeply influenced by Francisco Tárrega and dedicated several of his compositions to him (\"Impromptu\", \"Floriada\", \"Doña Mencia\", \"Batseba\", \"Al Altardecer en los jardines de Arlaja\"). By this time he had already written over 100 compositions, most of which salon music for piano, some songs, and works for the stage such as the opera \"L'último Abenzeraggio\" (first version: 1868), which was performed at the Teatro del Liceo in 1874. Between 1876 and 1880, Pedrell lived mainly in Italy and France: in Rome he discovered his musicological interest, and in Paris he worked mainly in composition, writing his song-cycle \"Orientales\" (words by Victor Hugo) and the symphonic poem \"Excelsior\" (1880).\n\nIn February 1880, he settled in Barcelona as a music teacher and composer, where he made the acquaintance of Isaac Albéniz and Enrique Granados who became his first pupils. Other notable pupils included the composers Rosa García Ascot, Manuel de Falla, and Joan Lamote de Grignon. After another performance of \"L'último Abenzeraggio\" in 1889, Pedrell seriously considered the founding of an \"escuela nacional de música\" (national school of music), combining elements of Spanish traditional music with the classical art music of his time. The first result was the opera \"Els Pirineus\" (1891), underlining his concept theoretically with the publication \"Por nuestra música\" (To Our Music; 1891), which made many composers and guitarists of his time aware of Spanish folkore. Influences were visible in Roberto Gerhard's eight Pedrell-derived folk-tunes (\"Cancionero de Pedrell\"), and Manuel de Falla's \"Pedrelliana\" – the last of his four \"Homenajes\" (\"homages\") (1939).\n\nBetween 1891 and 1904, Pedrell lived in Madrid, where he became a member of the Real Academia de Bellas Artes de San Fernando in 1895 and had a professorship in musical aesthetics and music history at the Real Conservatorio. In 1894, the first volume of his \"Hispaniae schoa musica sacra\" appeared, a series of edited scores of renaissance and baroque church music from Spain. As a musicologist, Pedrell worked particularly in the early music field and edited Victoria's \"opera omnia\" and the requiem of Joan Brudieu. This and other of his writings fostered a keen interest in the early music of Spain. He returned to Barcelona in 1904, when his opera \"Els Pirineus\" was eventually performed.\n\nWhen his daughter died in 1912, Pedrell fully withdrew from public life. His last pupils, the musicologist Higinio Anglès and the composer Roberto Gerhard, assisted Pedrell in his last publications and compositions. He died in Barcelona and was buried in the Sant Gervasi Cemetery. The composer Carlos Pedrell (1878–1941) is his nephew. The personal papers of Felip Pedrell are preserved in the Biblioteca de Catalunya. \n\nAmong his main direct disciples are Isaac Albéniz, Enrique Granados, Cristòfor Taltabull, Pedro Blanco, Joaquín Turina and Manuel de Falla.\n\nOperas\n\nInstrumental works\n\nSongs for voice and piano\n\nChoral music\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2248385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248385", "title": "Eames Lounge Chair", "text": "Eames Lounge Chair\n\nThe Eames Lounge Chair and ottoman are furnishings made of molded plywood and leather, designed by Charles and Ray Eames for the Herman Miller furniture company. They are officially titled Eames Lounge (670) and Ottoman (671) and were released in 1956 after years of development by designers. It was the first chair that the Eameses designed for a high-end market. Examples of these furnishings are part of the permanent collection of New York's Museum of Modern Art.\n\nCharles and Ray Eames sought to develop furniture that could be mass-produced and affordable, with the exception of the Eames Lounge Chair. This luxury item was inspired by the traditional English club chair. The Eames Lounge Chair is an icon of Modern style design, although when it was first made, Ray Eames remarked in a letter to Charles that the chair looked \"comfortable and un-designy\". Charles's vision was for a chair with \"the warm, receptive look of a well-used first baseman's mitt.\" The chair is composed of three curved plywood shells covered with veneer: the headrest, the backrest and the seat. The layers are glued together and shaped under heat and pressure. The shells and the seat cushions are essentially of the same shape, and composed of two curved forms interlocking to form a solid mass. The chair back and headrest are identical in proportion, as are the seat and the ottoman.\n\nThe products have changed in various ways over time. Beginning in 1956 and running through the very early 1990s, the shells were made up of five thin layers of plywood which were covered by a veneer of Brazilian rosewood. The use of Brazilian rosewood was discontinued in the early 1990s, and current production since then consists of seven layers of plywood covered by finishing veneers of cherry, walnut, Palisander rosewood (a sustainably grown wood with similar grain patterns to the original Brazilian versions), and other finishes. Small changes include the sets of spacers between the aluminum spines and the wood panels, originally of rubber, later hard plastic washers, and the number of screws securing the armrests, originally three, changed to two in second-series models, while the \"domes of silence\" (glides/feet) on the chair base originally had thinner screws attaching them to the aluminum base than those on later chairs, and the zipper around the cushions, either brown or black on early models, was later black only. Further, early ottomans had removable rubber slide-on feet with metal glides, and early labels are of oblong foil.\n\nThe Eameses constantly made use of new materials. The pair's first plywood chair—the Eames Lounge Chair Wood (LCW)—made use of a heavy rubber washer glued to the backrest of the chair and screwed to the lumbar support. These washers, which have come to be called \"shock mounts\", allow the backrest to flex slightly. This technology was brought back in the 670 Lounge chair. The backrest and headrest are screwed together by a pair of aluminum supports. This unit is suspended on the seat via two connection points in the armrests. The armrests are screwed to shock mounts, which are connected only by glue to the interior of the backrest shell, allowing the backrest and headrest to flex when the chair is in use. This is part of the chair's unusual design, as well as its weakest link, as the shock mounts have been known to tear free, causing collapse and damage.\n\nOther creative uses of materials include the seat cushions, which eschew standard stapled or nailed upholstery. Instead, the cushions are sewn with a zipper around the outer edge that connects them to a stiff plastic backing. The backing affixes to the plywood shells with a series of hidden clips and rings. This design, along with the hidden shock mounts in the armrest allow the outside veneer of the chair to be unmarred by screws or bolts. The chair has a low seat which is permanently fixed at a recline. The seat of the chair swivels on a cast aluminum base, with glides that are threaded so that the chair will remain level.\n\nThe Eames Lounge Chair first appeared on the Arlene Francis \"Home\" show broadcast on the NBC television network in the USA in 1956. Immediately following the debut, Herman Miller launched an advertising campaign that highlighted the versatility of the chair. Print ads depicted the 670 in a Victorian parlor, occupied by a grandmother shelling peas on the front porch of an American Gothic style house, and in the middle of a sunny field of hay. It has been frequently featured in \"Frasier\" as a piece of furniture in the title character's apartment. In the final episode of the series, Martin Crane remarks that he finds it comfortable and hints that he may not have needed his recliner after all. A knockoff of the Eames Lounge Chair has been frequently featured in the show \"House,\" in the protagonist's office\".\" Malory Archer's office chair in \"Archer\" is also an animation of the Eames Lounge Chair.\n\nSince its introduction, the chair has been in continuous production by Herman Miller in America. Later, Vitra (in cooperation with the German furniture company Fritz Becker KG) began producing the chair for the European market. It was licensed in the UK for 10 years to Hille International LTD from 1957. Immediately following its release, other furniture companies began to copy the chair's design. Some made direct copies, others were merely influenced by the design. The former Plycraft Company issued dozens of chairs that were direct copies of or in-the-style-of the Eames 670. Later Chinese and European companies began making direct copies. However, Herman Miller and Vitra remain the only two companies to produce these chairs with the Eames name attached.\n\nIn 2006, to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the chair, Herman Miller released models using a sustainable Palisander rosewood veneer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2248386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248386", "title": "Large red damselfly", "text": "Large red damselfly\n\nThe large red damselfly \"(Pyrrhosoma nymphula)\" is a species of damselflies belonging to the family Coenagrionidae.\n\nThis species is a mainly European damselfly, with some populations in Northern Africa and Western Asia.\n\nThese damselflies inhabit small ponds, lakes and dikes, and occasionally slow-moving rivers. They tend to avoid fast flowing water.\n\n\"Pyrrhosoma nymphula\" can reach a body length of . These large and robust damselflies show black legs and wing spots in both sexes.\n\nMature males have red eyes and a black thorax with red shoulder stripes in mature specimen, but yellow stripes in immature. In fact ante-humeral stripes change to red with age. Abdomen is red with black small rings and bronze-black bands towards the apex (segments 7-9). Wings are hyaline, with a blackish pterostigma. Mature females occur in three colour forms (\"typical\", \"fulvipes\" and \"melanotum\"), from mostly black to mostly red, but all have yellow bands around the abdominal segments. Some intermediate forms also exist.\n\nThe form \"typica\" has more black on its abdominal segments than the form \"fulvipes\", particularly on segment 6. Immatures have lighter eyes and have yellow stripes on the thorax, not red. In the form \"melanotum\" females show the upper surface of the abdomen almost entirely black.\n\nThese damselflies can easily be confused with small red damselflies, but the latter has orange legs, while the large red damselfly has black legs. In Greece and Albania a closely related species occurs, the Greek red damsel (\"Pyrrhosoma elisabethae\"). They look very much the same, the females only having a slightly different pronotum with deep folds in the hind margin. The males differ in their lower appendages, which are longer than the upper ones, while the black hook on the lower appendages is half as long as in the large red damselfly. The appendages of the large red damselfly can be seen in the gallery below.\n\nOne of the most common damselflies, the large red damselfly is often the first damselfly to emerge, usually in April or May. Adults can be found until September, according to locality.\n\nImmature adults mature in about two weeks. Mating occurs in vegetation. The female during the laying of eggs is accompanied by the male, she immerses into the water only the abdomen. Eggs hatch in two-three weeks. Development of larvae takes two years. Larvae feed on aquatic insect larvae, protozoa, rotifers or small crustaceans.\n"}
{"id": "2248387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248387", "title": "Mut'ah of Hajj", "text": "Mut'ah of Hajj\n\nThe \"mut'ah of Hajj\" (\"hajj al-tamattu\", meaning \"joy of Hajj\") is the relaxation of the ihram (\"sacred state\") between the Umrah and Hajj, including its dress code and various prohibitions.\n\nWhen planning a pilgrimage, the participant is expected to announce their intention to do so at the start of the journey. If the pilgrimage begins with only the intention of it being a minor one and the pilgrim decides after starting it that it will be a major one, they need to go a certain distance away from Mecca, and then start a new pilgrimage, intending to do the greater one.\n\nMuhammad decreed that Umrah and Hajj can be combined, i.e.: starting a pilgrimage with the intention of participating in both events.\n\nThere exist two forms of pilgrimage, the \"minor pilgrimage \"(Arabic \"Umrah\") and the \"major pilgrimage\" (Arabic \"Hajj\"). The major one contains more rules, and is obligatory upon all Muslims (if they can afford it financially, but if they can not afford it financially it is not obligatory) to perform once per life. While doing a pilgrimage, whether minor or major, the Muslim needs to adhere to some very strict dress codes that also includes some other rules (Arabic: \"Ihram\").\n\nIn pre-Islamic Arabia, if one would go to the minor pilgrimage a short period before the major one would commence, he was forbidden to go out of the dress code if he intended to follow it up with a Major pilgrimage.\n\nThis rule was abrogated by Muhammad, who said it was permissible to leave the state of Ihram if one intended to attend Hajj. and this relaxation became known as \"joy\" (Arabic: \"Mut'ah\") or more distinctly, the \"joy of pilgrimage\", Mut'ah of Hajj or in Arabic :\"Hajj al-Tamattu\". This is \"not\" mentioned in the Qur'an, rather it is a part of the Sunnah.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2248390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248390", "title": "Hatton, London", "text": "Hatton, London\n\nHatton including Hatton Cross is a small settlement and locality in the historic County of Middlesex and the London boroughs of Hillingdon and Hounslow, on the south-eastern edge of London Heathrow Airport and straddling the A30 road.\n\nThe area was for many decades a notorious place for highway robberies and its surviving old inn, \"The Green Man\" has a hiding-hole behind the chimney. A nearby road is named Dick Turpin Way accordingly. Aside from the heyday of such problems in the 17th and 18th century the area had attractive rural houses with gardens, one having been built by Edward III and visited by Richard II, another centuries later having been the home of Sir Frederick Pollock, 1st Baronet through to his grandson, first cousin of the first Viscount Hanworth resident at much larger Hanworth Park.\n\nIt remains technically a hamlet or neighbourhood of Bedfont from which it is separated by a field and local sports facilities. It is flanked to the north and north-west by major roads, depots, warehouses, hotels and parking areas associated with London Heathrow Airport which take up the north of the locality, leading to the consolidation of that area into Hillingdon since 1994. It is joined, south, by Bedfont and North Feltham and to the east by the River Crane, over which is Hounslow West. The settled part is the interior and one side of a triangle south of the dualled A30. Further south a line of houses continues which faces Hounslow Urban Farm and is then engulfed by naming into the North Feltham Trading Estate such as Feltham Ambulance Station beside the farm. The current naming has eaten into what was once squarely Hatton, just as Heathrow has from the opposite direction.\n\nHatton's name comes from Anglo-Saxon \"Hǣþtūn\" = \"heath farmstead\"; until 1819 its cultivated area and small residential gardens were surrounded by heath.\n\nIt is bordered by North Feltham to the south, Bedfont to the west and south-west and Heathrow Airport to the north. The A30 road forms the borough boundary with Hillingdon since 1994. Before then the end of a north-east projection, which remains as does the rest of Hatton in the ecclesiastical parish of Bedfont, were kept with the rest of Hatton and its mother village, Bedfont, in Hounslow's Borough. North-west is Cranford. The south-east is technically Hatton but branded North Feltham (Trading Estate) as are all surrounding streets.\n\nHatton has a varied collection of industrial buildings providing ancillary services to Heathrow Airport. The east of Hatton is noisy due to aircraft frequently landing or taking off and at Myrtle Avenue has a well-cut green for spotting of aeroplanes.\n\nTwo local meeting places are the pub-restaurant \"The Green Man\", owned by the Punch Taverns. Adjoining the Green Man is a field where horses, geese, cows and other livestock live: Hounslow Urban Farm (next to Hatton Cemetery), which states itself to be the largest \"urban\" farm in London. Apart from the remaining kernel of Hounslow Heath, the Borough is highly built up or in formal parks, having modest average garden size so the urban status to the farm is tangible relative to the lowest density London Borough: Bromley with many farms in the North Downs.\n\nHatton has a small café by the green on Faggs Road and a convenience store and newsagents within Hatton Cross station. Barclays Bank with car park is in the highly road-dominated area north of Hatton Cross. A petrol station with Subway food outlet is south-west of Hatton Cross and The Atrium, a large hotel facing a restricted-access lane on the south-side of Hatton Cross is under construction. In what was once squarely but is today the debatable south of Hatton a 24-hour Tesco supermarket and petrol station adjoining the urban farm. Hatton no longer has a place of worship; its Baptist Chapel/Anglican Mission Room was converted for office use in 2000. What little housing exists is mainly semi-detached or maisonettes built between the 1930s and the 1950s. Several older properties remain in Green Man Lane, including the old Manor house (now the headquarters of a car leasing company) and two other 18th century dwellings. The 17th century blacksmith's yard and buildings have been converted into a family home.\n\nEast of Hatton is a large lake, which used to be a sand and gravel quarry. It is over 500 metres long, but divided by a new road, The Causeway.\n\nIn 1086 Roger de Montgomery, Earl of Arundel, held 1½ hides in Hatton, which in the reign of King Edward the Confessor had been held by two sokemen, vassals of Albert of Lorraine. This land belonged to the earl's manor of Colham, in which it probably became merged. A second entry in the Domesday Survey relates to a still smaller estate in Hatton, which was held by Walter Fitz Other, and which had been held formerly by two vassals of Azor. It is probable that this land became merged in the Windsor Manor of East Bedfont, and was possibly granted to Hounslow Priory with the rest of that property. The priory certainly held land in Hatton in 1382, and in 1599 it was granted, as land formerly belonging to Hounslow, to Sir Michael Stanhope, and from that time descended with the manor of East Bedfont.\n\nEdward III of England seems to have built a house at Hatton, which was known as Hatton Grange. Richard II held this of the priory of Hounslow at a yearly rent of 50s (£).\n\nIn 1911, the hamlet of Hatton lay in the level country to the east of Staines upon Thames 2 miles to the northeast of East Bedfont. Its street formed a convergence of byways radiating from the south toward the Staines Road from the other side towards the parallel Bath Road, and for this reason it is said to have been a favourite haunt (ground) of highwaymen. It was always buffered, east, by the gorse, dry grass, brambles and silver birches of Hounslow Heath, and both main roads were easily accessible from the old inn, \"The Green Man\" where the hiding-hole behind the chimney is evident.\n\nTwo fairs, held respectively about 7 May at Bedford and 14 June at Hatton, were abolished by the Home Secretary on the representation (petitioning) of the Justices of the Peace (local magistrates) in April 1881. It does not appear how long it had been the custom to hold them.\n\nThere was in 1911 a Baptist chapel in Hatton, and a licensed mission room of the Church of England.\n\nIn 2008, British Airways Flight 38 crash-landed in Hatton near a major road, its fuel-oil heat exchanger having developed ice, a problem since fixed by mandatory retrofitting of a new component to all of the model of engines involved in that flight.\n\nAs London Heathrow Airport has grown, its eastern estates including car parks and a hotel on the Bath Road occupy a large minority of Hatton's land — all of Hatton north of the A30 road (Great South-West Road). Other than Staines Road of Roman origin marking the south border, the local main street straight north–south to Harlington Corner (uniting the A4 road Bath Road with the Staines (Silchester & Lands End) Road). See A437. Features along were, from north to south:\nThese buildings were demolished in or before 1949. Hatton Road survives as a north end stump (Hatton Road North), visible surface tarmac and wide cropmark on grass east of the end of the north runway, unnamed alignments among service area buildings, the south part of the airport internal road Eastchurch Road, and a south end stump.\n\n\nAir France-KLM's head office for United Kingdom and Ireland operations, which includes facilities for Air France and KLM, is located in Plesman House in Hatton Cross. The facility's inauguration was on 6 July 2006. Air France moved the office from Hammersmith to Hatton. The Plesman House, outside of Terminal 4 of Heathrow Airport, has the UK commercial team, sales team, and support team.\n\nThe nearest London Underground station is Hatton Cross. The area is served by a number of London Buses routes, connecting Hatton to the airport, Hounslow, Northolt, Southall, Richmond and Staines.\n\nFree parking is possible in Hatton Lane, but the roads around Hatton are either red routes (stopping not allowed), double yellow lines, or residents' parking (Monday - Friday 8:30 - 5:30). A few credit card paid parking spaces are available near the Green Man public house. The Green Man has its own parking spaces, but long term parking is not encouraged.\n\nUntil the 1840s laying of major railways stagecoaches increasingly crossed the area or used the diverging road two miles north (i.e. between London and all places in directions ranging from due west (e.g. Bristol) to (WSW) (e.g. Dorset, Devon and Cornwall)).\n\nThe area has a depot of Ashford Luxury Coaches, whose \"Windsorian\" branded coaches are used to transport members of the British Royal Family.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2248394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248394", "title": "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band (song)", "text": "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band (song)\n\n\"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\" is a song written by Paul McCartney (credited to Lennon–McCartney), and first recorded and released in 1967, on the album of the same name by the Beatles. The song appears twice on the album: as the opening track (segueing into \"With a Little Help from My Friends\"), and as \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band (Reprise)\", the penultimate track (segueing into \"A Day in the Life\"). As the title song, the lyrics introduce the fictional band that performs on the album.\n\nSince its original album release, \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\" has also been released on various Beatles singles and compilation albums. The song has also been performed by several other artists, including Jimi Hendrix, U2, and a comic interpretation by Bill Cosby, using the opening to John Philip Sousa's \"Washington Post March\" as the instrumental bridge.\n\nIn November 1966, on the flight back to England after a holiday, McCartney conceived an idea in which an entire album would be role-played, with each of the Beatles assuming an alter-ego in the \"Lonely Hearts Club Band\", which would then perform a concert in front of an audience.\nThe inspiration is said to have come when roadie Mal Evans innocently asked McCartney what the letters \"S\" and \"P\" stood for on the pots on their in-flight meal trays, and McCartney explained it was for salt and pepper. This then led to the \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\" concept, as well as the song.\n\nThe group's road manager, Neil Aspinall, suggested the idea of Sgt. Pepper being the compère, as well as the reprise at the end of the album. According to his diaries, Evans may have also contributed to the song. John Lennon attributed the idea for Sgt. Pepper to McCartney, although the song is officially credited to Lennon–McCartney. The Beatles recorded the track in Abbey Road's studio 2, with George Martin producing, and Geoff Emerick engineering. Work on the song started on 1 February 1967, and after three further sessions the recording was completed on 6 March 1967.\n\nOn the \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\" album, the song opens to the sound of a chattering audience, and an orchestra tuning up, which was taken from the 10 February orchestra session for \"A Day in the Life\". The crowd sounds edited into the song were recorded in the early 1960s by Martin, during a live recording of the stage show \"Beyond the Fringe\". The song's structure is:\n\n\nThe song is in G major, with a meter. A horn quartet was used to fill out the instrumental sections.\n\n\"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band (Reprise)\" is a modified repeat of the opening song at a faster tempo and with heavier instrumentation. The track opens with McCartney's count-in; between 2 and 3, Lennon jokingly interjects \"Bye!\" Ringo Starr starts the song proper by playing the drum part unaccompanied for four bars, at the end of which a brief bass glissando from McCartney cues the full ensemble of two distorted electric guitars (played by George Harrison and Lennon), bass, drums and overdubbed percussion. In addition, McCartney overdubbed a Hammond organ part onto the track.\n\nWhile the first version of the song had stayed largely in the key of G major (except for transient modulation to F and perhaps C in the bridges), the reprise starts in F and features a modulation, to G. The mono and stereo mixes of the song differ slightly: the former has a fractionally different transition from the previous song, and includes crowd noise and laughter in the opening bars that are absent from the stereo mix.\n\nThe idea for a reprise was Aspinall's, who thought that, as there was a \"welcome song\", there should also be a \"goodbye song\". The song contains broadly the same melody as the opening version, but with different lyrics and omitting the \"\"It's wonderful to be here\"\" section. At 1:18, it is one of the Beatles' shorter songs (the shortest is \"Her Majesty\" at 0:23). The reprise was recorded on 1 April 1967, two months after the version that opens the album. At the end of the track, Martin's applause sample segues into the final track of the album, \"A Day in the Life\".\n\nIt was originally released in the UK on 26 May 1967, and in the US on 2 June 1967 on the \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\" LP.\n\nWhen the Beatles' recording contract with EMI expired in 1976, EMI were free to re-release music from the Beatles' catalogue, and in 1978 issued \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\"/\"With a Little Help from My Friends\" as the A-side of a single, with \"A Day in the Life\" as the B-side. The single was released on Capitol in the US on 14 August (closely following the release there of the \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\" film), reaching number 71 on 30 September 1978 where it stayed for two weeks. The single was issued on Parlophone in the UK in September.\nThe original recording of the song is included on the Beatles compilation albums \"1967–1970\" (1973) and \"Yellow Submarine Songtrack\" (1999). A run-through of the reprise is included on the outtakes album \"Anthology 2\" (1996).\n\nIn 2006, the reprise was re-released on the album \"Love\", which was a theatrical production by Cirque du Soleil. The updated version is a remix featuring samples of other Beatles' songs and fades out before the cross-fade into \"A Day in the Life\".\n\nThe notebook used by McCartney containing the lyrics for \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\" and other songs was put up for sale in 1998.\n\nIn 1967, Jimi Hendrix played the song live at the Saville Theatre in Shaftesbury Avenue, which was leased by Brian Epstein, only three days after it had been released on record, with McCartney and Harrison in the audience. Another live version by Hendrix recorded at the Isle of Wight Festival was included on a posthumous live album, \"\".\n\n\"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\" was never performed live by the Beatles. It was performed by three of the former band members (McCartney, Harrison and Starr) plus Eric Clapton on 19 May 1979, at Clapton's wedding party.\n\nPaul McCartney played the song live on the 1989–90 Paul McCartney World Tour. On subsequent tours he would play the reprise version and use that as a segue into \"The End\". When the performance is released, it usually is listed as \"Sgt. Pepper's/The End\", shortening the name of the song. When McCartney performs it, he usually adds the count-in \"after\" the drum part begins, as opposed to McCartney's count-in preceding the drum opening.\n\nIn 1988, hair metal band Zinatra played the song at an arena tour in Europe where they opened for then-former Van Halen frontman David Lee Roth. Zinatra also covered part of the song under the title \"Peppermania\" on the band's 2004 version of their self-titled debut album.\nMcCartney and U2 played the song at the start of the Live 8 concert in London's Hyde Park on 2 July 2005. The song, starting with \"\"It was twenty years ago, today\"\", was chosen among others to commemorate that Live 8 took place approximately twenty years after Live Aid. The single was released for charity on iTunes, hitting number 48 on the Billboard Hot 100 and number 1 on the UK Downloads chart, setting a world record for the fastest-selling online song of all time.\n\nIn 2007, Bryan Adams and Stereophonics recorded the album's two versions of the song for \"It Was 40 Years Ago Today\", a television film with contemporary acts recording the album's songs using the same studio, technicians and recording techniques as the original.\n\nOn 4 April 2009, McCartney performed the song during a benefit concert at New York's Radio City Music Hall and segued it into \"With a Little Help From My Friends\", sung by Starr.\n\nIn 2009, Cheap Trick released a live album and DVD called \"Sgt. Pepper Live\", which is a live performance of the entire original album, including the title song and reprise.\n\nIn 2011, Robbie Williams performed the song on Take That's Progress tour, replacing \"Sgt Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\" with \"Robbie Williams and the Take That Band\", and \"Mr Martin told the Band to play\" – a reference to Take That's manager in the 1990s, Nigel Martin-Smith.\n\nIn 2013, the song was performed by Ryder Lynn (Blake Jenner), Marley Rose (Melissa Benoist), Jake Puckerman (Jacob Artist), and Wade \"Unique\" Adams (Alex Newell) in the \"Glee\" episode \"Tina in the Sky with Diamonds\".\n\nOn 9 February 2014, during a tribute show commemorating the Beatles' first appearance on \"The Ed Sullivan Show\", 50 years earlier, McCartney again sang \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\" and Starr sang \"With a Little Help from My Friends\".\n\nThe Flaming Lips recorded the song on their track-for-track tribute album With a Little Help from My Fwends, released on 27 October 2014.\n\nGlim Spanky recorded a cover of the song for \"Hello Goodbye\", a 2016 tribute album to the Beatles.\n\nAccording to Ian MacDonald, Mark Lewisohn, Olivier Julien and Kevin Howlett, the line-up on the two Beatles recordings was as follows:\n\nFull version\n\nReprise\n"}
{"id": "2248397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248397", "title": "Fixing a Hole", "text": "Fixing a Hole\n\n\"Fixing a Hole\" is a song by the English rock band the Beatles that was released on their 1967 album \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\". It was written by Paul McCartney, although credited to Lennon–McCartney.\n\nIn a 1968 interview, McCartney said that the song was \"about the hole in the road where the rain gets in, a good old analogy—the hole in your make-up which lets the rain in and stops your mind from going where it will.\" He went on to say that the following lines were about fans who hung around outside his home day and night, and whose actions he found off-putting:\n\nYears later, McCartney acknowledged that the song was an \"ode to pot\".\n\nThe first of two recording sessions for \"Fixing a Hole\" was at Regent Sound Studios in London on 9 February 1967, in three takes. Regent Sound was used because all three studios at EMI's Abbey Road Studios were unavailable that night, so this was the first time that the Beatles used a British studio other than Abbey Road for an EMI recording. Also present at the session was a man who had arrived at McCartney's house in St John's Wood, shortly before McCartney was due to depart for the studio, and introduced himself as Jesus Christ. McCartney later recalled:\nThe lead vocal was recorded at the same time as the rhythm track, a change from the Beatles' post-1964 approach of overdubbing the vocal. Overdubs were added to this recording on 21 February 1967 at EMI Studios.\n\nThe song alternates between the key of F minor (in verse) and F major (in bridge) in basically 4/4 time: \n\nOn track one George Martin opens on harpsichord, briefly playing a descending chromatic line (resembling \"Michelle\") in a staccato-like pattern 4/4 time, but Ringo Starr's hi-hat in the final measure of the introduction introduces a swing beat that stays for the remainder of the song. The first eight-measure verse begins with McCartney's vocals on track three (\"I'm fixing a hole where the rain gets in\"). The optimistic word \"Fixing\" here is sung to a piano F major chord (bass now also on track one playing an F note) but on \"hole\" a C augmented chord (which includes a G/A note that is a III (3rd) note in the thus predicted F minor scale) (bass now playing a C or V (5th) note in both the F major and F minor scales) pivoting towards the Fm pentatonic minor scale on the more negative mood of \"rain gets in\". The Fm key melody in the verse is tinged both by blues flat 7th, and Dorian mode raised 6th notes. The harpsichord repeats the descending chromatic line in the F minor key in swing beat.\nIn the second half of the verse, McCartney's bass begins a syncopated three-note pattern that leaves the downbeat empty, meanwhile his vocal is dropping to F an octave below (on \"stops my mind\"), climbing back to C (\"from wandering\") then sailing free of the song's established octave to a high falsetto A flat on \"where it will go.\" George Harrison then comes in on track two in the seventh and eighth measure with a syncopated distorted Stratocaster with gain, treble and bass all turned up high, providing his distinctive countermelody, double-tracked phrase descending from Paul's high A vocal note through a \"series of biting inversions on the tonic chord;\" Harrison later adds an eight bar solo that culminates in a two octave descent. McCartney, Lennon and Harrison do backing vocals on track 4 for the bridge (\"And it really doesn't matter if I'm wrong I'm right where I belong I'm right\") in the parallel major key (F). This shift between minor (verse) and major (bridge) is also seen in the songs \"Norwegian Wood (This Bird Has Flown)\" (verse E, chorus Em); \"Michelle\" (verse F, chorus Fm); \"While My Guitar Gently Weeps\" (bridge A, verse Am), \"I Me Mine\" (chorus A, verse Am), \"The Fool on the Hill\" (verse D, chorus Dm) and \"Penny Lane\" (verse [bars 1–3] B, verse [bars 4–8] Bm).\n\n\nPersonnel per Guitar World.\n\n"}
{"id": "2248401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248401", "title": "Mercury Marine", "text": "Mercury Marine\n\nMercury Marine, founded in 1939 as Kiekhaefer Mercury, is a division of the Brunswick Corporation. It is based in Fond du Lac, Wisconsin. The company manufactures marine engines.\n\nMercury Marine's primary business is outboard motors. Mercury Outboards, 30 Hp and less, are made by Tohatsu in Japan. Mercury Marine builds 40, 50 and 60 horsepower outboard motors in Suzhou, China. Mercury also manufactures engines over 75 horsepower at its facility in Fond du Lac in Wisconsin.\n\nMercury also makes the MerCruiser line of sterndrives (inboard/outboard drives) and inboard motors. Mercury Racing is the company's division for racing engines tailored for power and speed.\n\nThe Kiekhaefer Mercury company began in 1939, when engineer Carl Kiekhaefer purchased a small outboard motor company in Cedarburg, Wisconsin. Kiekhaefer's original intention for the Kiekhaefer Corporation was to make magnetic separators for the dairy industry. The purchase included 300 defective outboard motors. Kiekhaefer and a small staff of employees rebuilt the motors and sold them to Montgomery Ward, a mail-order company. The motors were much improved, so the buyer purchased more. Kiekhaefer designed motors that withstood the elements better than his competition and called the motor Mercury (taking advantage of the \"Mercury\" Motor Car popularity at the time) whilst the adopting the logo of Roman god Mercury.\n\nKiekhaefer took more than 16,000 orders at the 1940 New York Boat Show.\n\nWorld War II changed the corporate climate, and Kiekhaefer sought a government contract to design two-man air-cooled chainsaws. Army engineers had been unable to design a lightweight motor. Kiekhaefer designed a new lightweight chainsaw in 2 months. The Kiekhaefer powered chainsaw was able to cut through a green log in 17 seconds, while it took the nearest competitor 52 seconds. Mercury was awarded the contract, and was the world's largest chainsaw manufacturer by the end of the war.\n\nKiekhaefer Mercury foresaw that the average American's interest in boating would increase after the war. Kiekhaefer introduced a 19.8 cubic inch, 10 horsepower (hp), two-cylinder alternate firing design engine at the 1947 New York Boat Show called the \"Lightning\" or KE-7. This engine, also called the \"Super 10\", actually developed around 14 horsepower. Its designation was updated to KF-7 for 1949. For 1951 the engine block, though still displacing 19.8 cubic inches, was updated a great deal, and given the name \"Hurricane\". The 1951 kg-7 \"Super 10\" featured this engine, which developed around 16 horsepower. For 1952, this model was updated with a \"forward, neutral, reverse\" gearset, and a twist grip throttle. It was renamed \"Cruiser\" at this point, and no longer called \"Super 10\". This engine later became the heart of the \"Mark 25\", of the mid to late fifties. Initially rated at 16 horsepower, this engine was soon beefed up to 20. There was also an \"H\" version, which produced more power but carried no rating. \"H\" version Mercurys were mostly used for racing.\n\nIn 1949, the company also introduced its first large outboard, the approximately 40 cubic inch, 4 cylinder in line, \"Thunderbolt\". This engine was rated at 25 horsepower, but actually put out around 28. There was soon an \"H\" version designed for high rpm use. This version put out nearly 40 horsepower, while being rated at \"25+\". The Thunderbolt engine benefited from upgrades and updates, eventually becoming the Mark 40, Mark 50, and Mark 55 engines of the mid and late fifties. All of these were rated quite accurately at 40 horsepower.The Mark 55H (high speed) developed more, but carried no rating.\n\nDue to a rather large gap between the Mark 25 (20 hp) and the Mark 55 (40 hp), Mercury brought out the 4 in line, approximately 30 cubic inch \"Mark 30\" (30 horsepower) engine for 1956, and produced versions of its \"TurboFour\" engine for several years. It too, was available as an \"H\" version, producing lots of extra horsepower for racing and sporting use.\n\nWhy these Mark engines (and other Mark engines) carried number names which were not horsepower ratings, not displacement numbers, and not consistent from one motor to another, is a real mystery. Why was the 20 hp Mercury a Mark 25, and the 40 hp Mercury a Mark 55, while the 30 hp job was the Mark 30? No one really knows.\n\nOf course, there were also smaller Mercs during both the K era and the Mark era, such as the \"Super 5\" and later, such engines as the \"Mark 6\" and the \"Mark 10\".\n\nIn 1957 Kiekhaefer started testing at a Florida lake he called \"Lake X\" to keep the location secret. Later that year the Kiekhaefer Mercury company designed a new inline 6-cylinder, 60 cubic inch, engine named \"Mark 75\". Like its 2- and 4-cylinder brethren, the Mark 75 featured internal reed valves. The reed valve blocks served as intermediate main bearings. Because the valves occupied space already necessary for the main bearings instead of mounting to an extension of the crankcase, crankcase volume was minimized, resulting in a higher crankcase compression ratio, and more power in proportion to displacement than the competition.\n\nMercury's first 6-cylinder engines featured \"direct reversing\". Instead of a lower unit with forward, neutral and reverse gears, its lower units were more compact, with only drive and driven gears, and no submerged shift mechanism required. Reverse was selected by turning off the engine and restarting it in opposite rotation, and neutral by simply switching off.Mark 75s, like many of their smaller brethren, were available in an \"H\" (high speed) version. Many of these large H engines sported open headers for competition and produced 90 horsepower from 60 cubic inches. Two totally stock Mark 75s set a world endurance record on Lake X, running 50,000 miles at an average of 30.3 mph, while being re-fueled on the fly. The boats were stopped only for driver changes and standard maintenance. After the record setting run was completed, the motors were torn down and inspected for wear. They were found to be well within factory tolerances. \nThe amazing distance has never been topped, even with modern advancements in outboard technology.\n\nFor 1958, an enlarged version of this engine was introduced. The new \"Mark 78\" boasted 70 horsepower from 66 cubic inches of displacement. No \"H\" version was offered. Also in 1958, a stock Mark 75H set a new world speed record for outboard motors, of 107 mph.\n\nKiekhaefer decided to promote his company by owning a NASCAR and AAA team. The team dominated NASCAR Grand National (at one point winning 16 straight races), even though it only competed in 1955 and 1956. The team won the 1955 and 1956 NASCAR championships with drivers Tim Flock and Buck Baker. One of Kiekhaefer's innovations was using dry paper air filters, which are still standard in automobiles today.\n\nWhen Kiekhaefer Mercury's top-of-the-line, 80 horsepower (74 cubic inch) model \"Merc 800\" was introduced for 1960, direct reversing as standard equipment was optionally replaced by full forward, neutral and reverse gear shifting, as on Mercury's 2- and 4-cylinder models, and \"thru-hub\" exhaust was introduced. Previously, as with other outboard brands and Mercury's smaller models, exhaust exited from a chute at the rear of the cavitation plate above the propeller. Thru-hub exhaust was claimed to be more efficient by omitting the added drag of an exhaust chute, and using the low pressure area necessarily created by the gear housing and propeller moving through the water to assist in exhaust evacuation. Over the next several years, thru-hub exhaust became a standard feature of all Mercury models, and later was adopted near industry-wide for both outboards and stern-drives.\n\nWith Mercury Marine outboards typically having smaller displacement per horsepower and better fuel economy than the competitions motors, an ad ran in publications showing a Mercury powered boat pulling an elephant on a large ski-like platform. The caption simply read \"Mercury, pulls an elephant. Runs on peanuts.\"\n\nIn 1961 the company merged with the Brunswick Corporation.\n\nThe company introduced the MerCruiser stern-drive line at the 1961 Chicago Boat Show. The line would later take over 80 percent of the world market.\n\nFor 1962, the Merc 1000 became the new top of the line in line 6, offering 100 hp. It was somewhat of a sensation. It also introduced the new \"Phanton Black\" paint scheme which soon spread to the entire line and became famous.\n\nIn 1966, 6-cylinder Mercury models featured the introduction of electronic ignition, another first that eventually became an industry standard.\n\nCarl Kiekhaefer resigned as President of Kiekhaefer Mercury in 1969, and the name was changed to Mercury Marine. During this time, Mercury produced snowmobiles, like many other companies in the late 1960s. The first ones incorporated a 250 cc two-man chainsaw engine.\n\nIn 1971, they came out with the Rocket and Lightning models of snowmobiles. These sleds combined aluminum tunnels with Canadian Curtiss Wright (CCW) engines. The Rocket was a 340, and the Lightning a 400 with electric start. By 1972, Mercury started production of the Hurricane, a more modern snowmobile with optional with slide rail suspension (as opposed to bogie wheel). In 1974 Mercury introduced the Sno-Twister 400cc snowmobile designed primarily for racing. It featured a Kohler free-air engine and succeeded in dominating the 400cc class.\n\nIn 1975 Mercury introduced 340cc and 440cc versions of the Sno-Twister and both were dominant at the track. 1976 saw a change in the Sno-Twister, this time 250cc, 340cc, and 440cc versions were all introduced. These were radical for their time and were the result of Mercury Sno Pro sleds developed and raced the previous year. These 1976 sleds were featured water-cooled Kohler engines. The chassis were small, lightweight, very low profile, with curved handlebars and seat cushions that were designed for left turns (oval tracks).\n\nIn 1975 and 1976 Mercury also produced the Trail Twister snowmobiles which were available in 340cc and 440cc which were fan-cooled. These were some of the fastest lake racers around in their day. This started off a new era in snowmobile construction for the whole industry and the sled's basic format set up what is seen today in modern snowmobiles.\n\nMercury was renowned in the 1970s as one of the best racing and performance snowmobile manufacturers, as well as an industry leader in marine engine production. Sno Twisters and Trail Twisters are highly sought after sleds due to their ahead of the time design, power, and unique styling.\n\nAt present, Mercury product brands include Mercury, Mercury Racing, MerCruiser, and Mariner outboards (sold outside the U.S.). Outboard sizes range from to . MerCruiser sterndrives and inboards range from 100 to and Mercury Racing outboards produce up to and sterndrives to . Subsidiaries include Mercury Precision Parts and Accessories as well as Mercury propellers and Mercury Jet Drives. In the U.S. Mercury outboards, from 30 hp and below are rebadged Tohatsu's.\n\nMercury has recently developed a processor-enhanced line of outboards called the \"Verado\" outboard engine. The \"Verado\" system integrates the outboard into an entire system, including \"fly-by-wire\" steering and advanced diagnostics. Verado engines are available from 200 hp (4-cyl) through 400 hp (6-cyl).\n\nIn 2007 Mercury Marine began selling its Zeus drive system. Developed by Mercury and its joint venture company Cummins MerCruiser Diesel (CMD), the Zeus drive is a dual engine pod drive system. Some of the most notable benefits from this class design for boaters will be enhanced helm control. While underway an automated trim control feature simplifies operation. Also, Zeus includes Skyhook Electronic AnchorTM which will keep a vessel in a fixed location within a tight range. The system might be called all weather as it will maintain location in strong currents and winds.\n\nMercury Marine is one of the world’s leading providers of marine propulsion. As $2.3 billion division of Brunswick Corporation, Mercury and its 6,200 employees worldwide provide engines, boats, services and parts for recreational, commercial and government marine applications.\n\nMercury’s brand portfolio includes Mercury and Mariner, Mercury MerCruiser sterndrives and inboard engines, MotorGuide trolling motors, Mercury and Teignbridge propellers, Mercury inflatable boats, Mercury SmartCraft electronics, and Mercury and Quicksilver parts and oils. MotoTron electronic controls was also a part of Mercury Marine, but as of October 2008 Brunswick Corp. sold MotoTron and its intellectual properties to Woodward Governor of Fort Collins, Colorado.\n\nSeaCore is a brand of sterndrive marine propulsion systems manufactured in the United States by MerCruiser. The SeaCore engine design utilizes materials, technologies, and systems, created specifically for Mercury Marine, to prevent galvanic corrosion within its engine, transom and drive. SeaCore propulsion includes models generating between 220 and . SeaCore is designed for a wide variety of vessels operated in or moored on saltwater.\n\nMercury Marine also provides various training programs through its training arm called Mercury University.\n\n"}
{"id": "2248408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248408", "title": "Yamaha IT250H", "text": "Yamaha IT250H\n\nThe Yamaha IT250H was an enduro motorcycle made by Yamaha starting in 1981. It has an air-cooled single cylinder two-stroke engine with six speed gearbox. Front suspension is 32 mm telescopic forks, with rubber boots. Rear suspension is monoshock and aluminium swingarm. Brakes are single acting, half width drums at both ends. The IT was made for enduro use, although it was used with success for trail riding and motocross.\n"}
{"id": "2248409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248409", "title": "She's Leaving Home", "text": "She's Leaving Home\n\n\"She's Leaving Home\" is a song by the English rock band the Beatles, written by Paul McCartney and John Lennon, and released on their 1967 album \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\". Paul McCartney wrote and sang the verse and John Lennon wrote the chorus, which they sang together. Neither George Harrison nor Ringo Starr was involved in the recording. The song's instrumental background was performed entirely by a small string orchestra arranged by Mike Leander, and was one of only a handful of Beatles songs in which the members did not play any instruments on the recording.\n\nPaul McCartney said of the song in his \"Playboy\" magazine interview in December 1984:\n\nThe newspaper story McCartney mentioned was from the front page of the \"Daily Mirror\", about a girl named Melanie Coe. Although McCartney invented most of the content in the song, Coe, who was 17 at the time, has said that most of it was accurate. In actuality, Coe left with her boyfriend, a croupier. She did not \"meet a man from the motor trade\", although her boyfriend previously had been in that trade. She left in the afternoon while her parents were at work, while the girl in the song leaves early in the morning as her parents sleep. Coe was found ten days later because she had let slip where her boyfriend worked. When she returned home, she was pregnant and had an abortion.\n\nBy coincidence, Coe had actually met McCartney three years earlier, in 1963 when he chose her as the prize winner in a dancing contest on ITV's \"Ready Steady Go!\". An update on Coe appeared in \"The Guardian\" in December 2008, and she was interviewed about the song on the BBC programme \"The One Show\" on 24 November 2010. In May 2017, \"Rolling Stone\" magazine carried an interview with Coe to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the album's release.\n\n\"She's Leaving Home\" was recorded during the sessions for the Beatles' \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\". The day before McCartney wanted to work on the song's score, he learned that George Martin, who usually handled the Beatles' string arrangements, was not available. McCartney contacted Mike Leander, who did it in Martin's place. This was the first time a Beatles song was not arranged by Martin. Martin, though hurt by this, produced the song and conducted the string section in a session on 17 March 1967 that generated six takes. The melody is composed in a modal scale, typical of English traditional music. The harp was played by Sheila Bromberg, the first female musician to appear on a Beatles record. Three days later, McCartney's lead vocal and Lennon's backing vocal were recorded, with the two singing together on each of two vocal tracks, their voices overlapping to match the narrative.\n\nThe stereo version of the song, finalised on 17 April 1967, runs at a slower speed than the mono mix, completed on 20 March 1967, and consequently is a semitone lower in pitch. A 2007 \"Mojo\" magazine article revealed that the final mono mix was sped up to make McCartney sound younger. The subsequent stereo mix was not sped up, remaining in the original tempo and key. In 2017, for the 50th anniversary edition of \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\", Giles Martin and Sam Okell remixed the stereo version of the song to match the adjusted speed of the mono version. The six-disc version of the anniversary edition also included the previously unreleased first mono mix of \"She's Leaving Home\", which contains a brief cello phrase at the end of the first two choruses that was removed from the released mixes of the song.\n\nIn April 1967, McCartney visited Brian Wilson of the Beach Boys in Los Angeles, where McCartney played \"She's Leaving Home\" on the piano for Wilson and his wife. Wilson recalled: \"We both just cried. It was beautiful.\" As the credited composers of \"She's Leaving Home\", Lennon and McCartney received the 1967 Ivor Novello award for Best Song Musically and Lyrically.\n\nComposer Ned Rorem once described \"She's Leaving Home\" as \"equal to any song that Schubert ever wrote\". In one of the few non-laudatory contemporary reviews of \"Sgt. Pepper\", Richard Goldstein, writing in \"The New York Times\", cited the song as an example of the album's reliance on production over quality songwriting. Goldstein said: She's Leaving Home' preserves all the orchestrated grandeur of 'Eleanor Rigby', but its framework is emaciated ... Where 'Eleanor Rigby' compressed tragedy into poignant detail, 'She's Leaving Home' is uninspired narrative, and nothing more.\" Author Ian MacDonald considered \"She's Leaving Home\" to be one of the two best songs on the album, along with \"A Day in the Life\". In his comments on \"Sgt. Pepper\" and its legacy, musicologist Allan Moore highlights these contrasting views as two music critics judging the work from \"opposing criteria\", with Goldstein opining during the dawn of the counterculture of the 1960s, whereas MacDonald, writing in the 1990s, is \"intensely aware of [the movement's] failings\".\n\nIn 2018, the music staff of \"Time Out London\" ranked \"She's Leaving Home\" at number 5 on their list of the best Beatles songs.\n\nAccording to Ian MacDonald:\n\n\nPaul McCartney performed the song live for the first time by any Beatle on the (North America) second leg of his 2002 Driving World Tour. He later reprised the song on his 2003 Back in the World Tour.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2248413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248413", "title": "Ignaz von Seyfried", "text": "Ignaz von Seyfried\n\nIgnaz Xaver, Ritter von Seyfried (15 August 1776 – 27 August 1841) was an Austrian musician, conductor and composer. He was born and died in Vienna. According to a statement in his handwritten memoirs he was a pupil of both Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart and Johann Georg Albrechtsberger. He edited Albrechtsberger's complete written works after his death, published by Tobias Haslinger. His own pupils included Franz von Suppé, Heinrich Wilhelm Ernst, Antonio Casimir Cartellieri, Joseph Fischhof and Eduard Marxsen.\n\nIn his youth Seyfried served as the assistant conductor for Emanuel Schikaneder's opera troupe at the Theater auf der Wieden in Vienna, becoming musical director in 1797 and serving (in its new building, the Theater an der Wien) until 1826. His memoirs offer accounts of the first production, under Schikaneder's auspices, of Mozart's \"The Magic Flute\", as well as a curious anecdote concerning the composer's death a few weeks later; see Death of Mozart.\n\nIn 1805, Seyfried conducted the première of the original version of Beethoven's \"Fidelio\". Seyfried's memoirs also include some striking tales about Beethoven, and the information he provides on Beethoven in the appendix to \"Studien im Generalbasse\" are \"of great biographical value\", containing \"everything [that] is known about the circumstances of the adored master and (are) authentic fact\". Also see Piano Concerto No. 3 (Beethoven) and Choral Fantasy (Beethoven).\n\nSeyfried composed a large amount of music from 1797 to the end of his life, including overtures and incidental music for stage plays and singspiels, operas, ballets and melodramas; numerous sacred works - 10 masses including one for double choir, motets, requiems, psalms, hymns and oratorios; as well as two symphonies, cantatas, overtures and chamber music. Other works include concertantes for clarinet and oboe; a \"Konzertstück\" and concertante for waldhorn, and 10 serenades for four waldhorns. A list of his works in a biography dating from 1836 fills five pages.\n\nOf his musical works, the \"Grove Dictionary\" says: \"his versatility won him a unique place in Vienna's musical life; however, almost none of his music is marked by real originality or distinction.\"\n\nHe made arrangements of Beethoven's Three Equals for four trombones, WoO 30 for four-part men's chorus, performed at Beethoven's funeral; re-scored Michael Haydn's \"Deutsche Messe\", for men's voices only; and arranged over twenty operas by others for various wind band combinations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2248415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248415", "title": "Aya Ueto", "text": "Aya Ueto\n\nAt the age of thirteen, Ueto made her acting debut in the 1999 thriller \"Satsujinsha: Killer of Paraiso\". In 2001, Ueto appeared in the sixth season of the TBS drama \"3-nen B-gumi Kinpachi-sensei\". Her portrayal of a high school student with gender dysphoria garnered critical acclaim and led to several leading roles and advertising endorsements, establishing Ueto as one of Japan's most recognizable faces. Since 2004, Ueto has held the annual title of CM Queen five times. Ueto has won two Television Drama Academy Awards – one for Best Actress for her performance in the sports drama series \"Ace o Nerae!\" (2004) and one for Best Supporting Actress for her role in the human drama \"Nagareboshi\" (2010). She subsequently starred in the remake of \"Attention Please\" (2006), the banking drama \"Hanzawa Naoki\" (2013) and \"Hirugao: Love Affairs in the Afternoon\" (2014).\n\nUeto ventured onto the big screen as the lead in Ryuhei Kitamura's 2003 blockbuster \"Azumi\", which earned her a nomination for a Japan Academy Award for Best Actress. She went on to star in its sequel, \"\" (2005), and \"Thermae Romae\" (2012), the adaptation of Mari Yamazaki's manga series of the same name. In 2017, Ueto starred in the feature film adaptation of the drama series \"Hirugao\".\n\nAya Ueto was born in Nerima, Tokyo to a Hokkaidan father and an Okinawan mother. Her parents divorced shortly after Ueto's debut. She is the middle of three children with an older brother, Shun, and younger brother Makoto. Despite growing up in a relatively poor household, Ueto studied piano, modern ballet, swimming and gymnastics. She originally had no ambitions to become an entertainer; she instead wanted to become a pre-school teacher.\n\nAfter hearing about one of her friends' experience as an extra on a TV drama, she decided she too \"wanted to appear on TV.\" Unbeknownst to her daughter, Ueto's mother entered her into the 7th Japan Bishōjo Contest. When she was twelve years old, Ueto won the special jury prize at the contest. She revealed later on that her real motivation for doing well was to \"win the two million yen cash prize to buy a house for her family,\" however because what she won was an ad hoc prize decided that day, there was no monetary reward. After Ueto's discovery, she joined the talent agency Oscar Promotion and began acting and singing lessons. In July 1998, Ueto joined the idol group Z-1. The group landed a regular spot on the variety shows \"Kaishingeki TV! Utaemon\" and \"The Yoru mo Hippare\", and debuted on Toshiba EMI a year later with the single \"Vibe!\" In 1999, Ueto obtained her first role in the film \"Satsujinsha: Killer of Paraiso\", in which her lines were entirely in English.\n\nIn 2000, Ueto portrayed the supporting role of Momo Fuchigami in the Fuji TV drama \"Namida o Fuite\", starring Yōsuke Eguchi. The drama garnered strong ratings and gave Ueto her biggest exposure yet. In 2001, Ueto appeared on the annual Victor Kōshien poster, which, in the past, kick-started the careers of Noriko Sakai and Miho Kanno. Later that year, she was cast in the role of Nao Tsurumoto, a student suffering from gender identity disorder (GID), in the sixth season of the TBS drama \"3-nen B-gumi Kinpachi-sensei\". The role propelled her to stardom and earned her a Golden Arrow Award for Best Newcomer.\n\nIn January 2002, it was announced that Ueto would continue her music career as a solo artist under Pony Canyon subsidiary label, Flight Master. During her summer break from school, she appeared in a 5-episode arc of the long-running drama \"Wataru Seken wa Oni Bakari\", and starred alongside Akiko Yada and Hiroshi Abe in the TBS drama \"My Little Chef\". Ueto released her first solo single, \"Pureness,\" in August 2002. The song debuted at number 4 on the Oricon Weekly Singles chart, making it the first debut single by a female artist with no commercial tie-in to enter the top five in three years. In between filming her first feature film, \"Azumi\", Ueto released her second single, \"Kizuna,\" and launched \"Seventeen's Map\", a radio show on Nippon Hōsō. The program would go on to last four-and-a-half years, changing names after each of her birthdays to \"Eighteen's Road\", \"Nineteen's Nine\", \"Hatachi ni High Touch!\", and \"21 Peace!\".\n\nIn early 2003, Ueto starred in a remake of the 1993 drama \"Kōkō Kyōshi\", alongside Naohito Fujiki. She released her third single, \"Hello,\" followed by her first studio album, \"Ayaueto\". In April 2003, it was revealed that Ueto had taken a leave of absence from school to focus on her career. In a 2007 interview, she stated that, at the time, she was only getting two hours of sleep, trying to juggle work and school. In May 2003, Ueto launched her first tour, \"Ueto Aya First Live Tour Pureness 2003\", released a fourth single, \"Message/Personal,\" and \"Azumi\" opened nationwide. Ueto won several awards for her performance in \"Azumi\". She swooped the Newcomer of the Year category of the Élan d'Or Awards, Japan Movie Critic Awards, Japanese Academy Awards, and Golden Arrow Awards; becoming the only actress to win two consecutive Golden Arrows for Newcomer of the Year. Ueto received a nomination for Outstanding Performance by an Actress in a Leading Role at the Japanese Academy Awards and won the Popularity Award. In July 2003, Ueto landed her first TV leading role in the TBS drama \"Hitonatsu no Papa e\", for which her fifth single, Kanshō, served as theme song. Despite low ratings, the single was well received on the charts, peaking at number 9.\n\nIn January 2004, Ueto starred as Hiromi Oka in the live-action adaption of the popular manga \"Ace wo Nerae!\". The drama earned her The Television Drama Academy Award for Best Lead Actress. Ueto's seventh single, \"Ai no Tameni.,\" served as theme song for the drama and became her best-selling single. In March 2004, \"Message\" was released and became her best-selling album. In December 2004, Ueto released her third studio album, \"Re.\", starred alongside Ryūnosuke Kamiki in the film adaption of Risa Wataya's award-winning novel, \"Install\", which premiered at the 17th Tokyo International Film Festival, and performed as top-batter at the 55th Kōhaku Uta Gassen. With eighteen advertising contracts for sixteen companies, Ueto was crowned CM Queen of 2004.\n\nIn 2005, Ueto appeared in the NHK taiga drama \"Yoshitsune\", portrayed twin sisters in a remake of the drama \"Koto\", and starred in the sequel to \"Azumi\", \"\". In April 2005, she starred in the TV Asahi-produced live-action adaption of another popular manga, \"Attack No. 1\". \"Yume no Chikara,\" the theme song for the drama, became her ninth top ten single. Ueto next starred in two TV movies produced to commemorate TBS' 50th anniversary: \"Misora Hibari Tanjō Monogatar\", a Misora Hibari biopic co-starring Izumi Pinko, and \"Nada Sōsō, Kono Ai ni Ikite\", co-starring Hitomi Kuroki. She launched her second tour, \"Ueto Aya Live Tour 2005: Genki Hatsu Ratsū?\", released her twelfth single, \"Kaze wo Ukete,\" and first remix album, \"Uetoayamix\". Ueto was appointed mascot girl for the 2005 FIFA Club World Championship and covered the tournament as a special presenter for NTV.\n\nIn 2006, Ueto attended her Coming of Age ceremony, acted as special presenter for NTV's coverage of the 2006 Winter Olympics and made a guest appearance as herself in the anime \"Meitantei Conan\", for which she was chosen as special supporter. She released her thirteenth single, \"Egao no Mama de,\" followed by her fourth studio album, \"License\". Ueto starred in \"Celeb\", the first episode of the drama adaption of the cell phone novel \"Tsubasa no Oreta Tenshitachi\". Her episode was the highest rated of the series. The drama marked Ueto's first appearance on a Fuji TV drama in six years, since \"Namida wo Fuite\" (2000). She starred alongside Ryo Nishikido in a modern-day remake of the 1970 drama, \"Attention Please\", which became her most successful drama to date. It spawned two specials: \"Attention Please: Yōko, Hawaii ni Tobu\" (2007) and \"Attention Please: Sydney, Australia\" (2008). Ueto next starred in the Yukihiko Tsutsumi-directed comedy, \"Shimokita Sundays\". In September 2006, Ueto released her first compilation album, \"\", which peaked at number 5. In December 2006, she hosted the 32nd Radio Charity Musicthon and acted as special presenter for NTV's coverage of the 2006 FIFA Club World Cup.\n\nIn 2007, Ueto starred in the two-part Yoshiko Ōtaka biopic, \"Ri Kouran\". In March 2007, Ueto released \"Way to Heaven,\" her first single in over a year, and made a guest appearance in the eighth-season finale of the TBS drama \"Wataru Seken wa Oni Bakari\". In April 2007, Ueto was cast in a remake of the Korean drama \"Hotelier\". The theme song, \"Namida no Niji,\" was released in May 2007. The single marked Ueto's first foray into songwriting. In an interview with Oricon Style, she revealed that the reason she insisted on not writing her own lyrics until then was because she felt \"shy\" about \"opening herself completely\" to her audience. Ueto held her third tour, \"Ueto Aya Best Live Tour 2007 Never Ever\", in the summer of 2007. At the release event of the concert DVD, she stated that the tour refreshed her after a year of ups and downs. Ueto next starred alongside Hideaki Itō in the TBS period piece \"Wachigaiya Itosato\", and alongside Yō Ōizumi in the Fuji TV drama, \"Abarenbō Mama\", which was well received by critics and audiences alike.\n\nIn 2008, Ueto won the Asakusa Entertainment Newcomer Prize, which is awarded to the most prominent entertainers based in Tokyo. She starred in her first NTV drama, \"Hokaben\". In August 2008, Ueto became the first actress to ever appear on official postage stamps by releasing an original set with photos taken from her 2007 tour. She made a secret guest appearance at the 2008 Kobe Collection runway show, where she modeled for Emanuel Ungaro. In October 2008, Ueto next starred in her ninth TV drama leading role in the Fuji TV comedy \"Celeb to Binbō Taro\", alongside Shūchishin member, Yūsuke Kamiji. Ueto attended the premiere of Saki Fukuda's first feature film \"Sakura no Sono\", in which she makes a supporting appearance, at the 21st Tokyo International Film Festival. In December 2008, Ueto hosted two of the year's biggest festivities: the M-1 Grand Prix and 50th Japan Record Awards. She hosted the former for the third consecutive year.\n\nIn January 2009, Ueto launched her first wedding dress collection, in collaboration with bridal shop Joyful Eli, entitled \"U Aya Ueto Dresses\". While she has designed her own tour merchandise in the past, namely the T-shirt line \"Buddy\" in 2005, \"U\" marks Ueto's first official foray into fashion design. A second collection was announced in July 2009. In April 2009, she starred alongside SMAP leader Masahiro Nakai in her first Getsuku drama, \"Konkatsu!\". Ueto next co-starred with Hayato Ichihara in the Shunji Iwai-produced CG animation film, \"Baton\", created in commemoration of the Port of Yokohama's 150th anniversary. The film, reunited her with \"Azumi\" director Ryuhei Kitamura. In June 2009, after a two-year hiatus, Ueto resumed her singing career by releasing the Kohmi Hirose-produced single \"Smile for...,\" followed by her fifth studio album, \"\". In November 2009, Ueto co-starred with Tetsuya Watari in the Sugako Hashida-written and Fukuko Ishii-produced TV movie, \"Kekkon\".\n\nIn 2010, Ueto launched her third and fourth wedding dress collections, starred alongside Kin'ya Kitaōji in the Fuji TV drama \"Zettai Reido\", and made a cameo appearance in Shun Oguri's directorial debut, \"Surely Someday\". In August 2010, Ueto co-starred with Masaaki Uchino for the first time since \"Ace o Nerae!\" (2004) in her first NHK drama leading role, \"Jūnensaki mo Kimi ni Koishite\". In September 2010, Ueto portrayed blind singer-songwriter Satoko Tatemichi in the TV movie \"Ai wa Mieru\". Ueto next co-starred with Yutaka Takenouchi in her second Getsuku drama, \"Nagareboshi\". The drama was very well received by critics and audiences alike and was the second best rated of the fall season. Ueto was nominated for Best Supporting Actress at the Nikkan Sports Drama Grand Prix and won the Television Drama Academy Award for her role in \"Nagareboshi\". Boasting advertising contracts with 13 different companies, Ueto was crowned CM Queen for a second consecutive year, making it the fifth time she has held the title.\n\nIn February 2011, Ueto launched her fifth wedding dress collection. In July 2011, Ueto reprised the role of detective Izumi Sakuragi for a second season of \"Zettai Reido\". Ueto was confirmed to appear in the series finale of the long-running drama \"Wataru Seken wa Oni Bakari\", scheduled to air in September 2011. She will also star alongside Hiroshi Abe for the first time in ten years, since \"My Little Chef\" (2002), in the film adaptation of \"Thermae Romae\" (2012). Filming started in Rome on March 14 and is expected to finish in early May.\n\nUeto dated Japanese singer and actor Gō Morita of the boy band V6 for eight years before splitting in April 2010. In October 2010, it was reported that she was in a relationship with Exile leader Hiro. In September 2012, Ueto announced via a handwritten letter posted on her official website that she and Hiro had registered their marriage on Ueto's 27th birthday.\n\nIn April 2011, Ueto joined veteran actors Tetsuya Watari, Hiroshi Tachi in handing out food and other relief supplies to disaster victims in the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami-stricken area of Ishinomaki in Miyagi.\n\nUeto is close friends with tarento and singer Becky. The pair have been appearing on television together since they met on the morning show \"Oha Star\" in 2000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2248417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248417", "title": "M-85 (Michigan highway)", "text": "M-85 (Michigan highway)\n\nM-85, also known as Fort Street or Fort Road for its entire length, is a state trunkline highway in the U.S. state of Michigan. The highway serves several Downriver suburbs of Detroit, as well as neighborhoods in the city itself. From its southern terminus at exit 28 on Interstate 75 (I-75) to its second interchange with exit 43 on I-75 in southwest Detroit, M-85 is part of the Lake Erie Circle Tour. In between, it serves mostly residential areas running parallel to a pair of rail lines; the highway carries between 5,000 and 43,000 vehicles per day on average. Once in the city of Detroit, Fort Street runs parallel to I-75 for several miles before they separate near the Ambassador Bridge. The northern end of M-85 is at the intersection with Griswold Street in downtown Detroit, one block away from Campus Martius Park.\n\nTwo previous unrelated highways bore the M-85 designation. The first was in Montcalm County and the second near Caro. These uses were retired in the 1930s and the 1940s, respectively. The current M-85 was created in 1956 after the construction of the Detroit-Toledo Freeway; the original northern end was at an intersection with US Highway 25 (US 25) in downtown. The northern end was truncated in the late 1960s to the northern junction with I-75. The highway was then extended back into downtown Detroit in the first year of the 21st century.\n\nM-85 starts a directional interchange with I-75 in near Rockwood; traffic to or from southbound I-75 must use Gibraltar Road instead. M-85 runs north from this interchange to Gibraltar Road as a full freeway; north of that intersection the highway becomes a boulevard. There are many businesses directly adjacent to Fort Street in the Downriver area with residential subdivisions on either side of them. The trunkline parallels a pair of rail lines. In this area, M-85 also runs parallel to, but inland from, the southern part of the Detroit River. The highway runs northeasterly through Gibraltar to Trenton, where it turns due north. Fort Street forms the boundary between Riverview and Trenton in the area near the Riverview Landing Shopping Center between King and Sibley Roads; north of here, Riverview extends along both sides of the road. At Pennsylvania Road, Fort Street crosses into the city of Southgate and curves to the northeast near the Southgate Tower office building. The highway returns to a due northerly course near Memorial Park and continues along the Southgate–Wyandotte city line. This area is mainly residential neighborhoods that extend in street grids on either side of the Fort Street boulevard, including the Old Homestead neighborhood of Southgate.\nThe highway crosses the South Branch of the Ecorse River and enters the city of Lincoln Park, through which Fort Street angles slightly northeasterly before turning sharply to the northeast at Champaign Road. M-85's new direction keeps it parallel to the Detroit River about away. When the trunkline crosses the North Branch of the Ecorse River, M-85 enters the city of Detroit near Outer Drive. Fort Street runs parallel to I-75 through the Boynton–Oakwood Heights neighborhoods of the city. North of the intersection with Schaefer Highway, M-85 meets an interchange with I-75 and passes under the freeway, crossing to its northwest side. At this interchange, the LECT designation is transferred from M-85 to I-75. Fort Street continues running between an industrial area and I-75. In this area, the highway crosses the River Rouge and turns east-northeast. Fort Street continues through the Delray neighborhood and past Woodmere Cemetery before crossing under I-75 again; there is no interchange at this location. These two highways continue in parallel to the north of Fort Wayne and the Detroit Harbor Terminals / Boblo Island Detroit Dock Building; M-85 intersects Grand Boulevard and passes under the approaches for the Ambassador Bridge; I-75 turns inland near the bridge's toll plaza north of Fort Street. M-85 continues along the river into the Corktown neighborhood.\nAs M-85 approaches downtown, it crosses over the Canadian Pacific-owned Michigan Central Railway Tunnel. Several blocks later, the highway passes over M-10 (Lodge Freeway) without an interchange near Joe Louis Arena. Fort Street continues carrying the M-85 designation as far east as the intersection with Griswold Street, one block west of Campus Martius Park.\n\nM-85 is maintained by the Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT) like other state highways in Michigan. As a part of these maintenance responsibilities, the department tracks the volume of traffic that uses the roadways under its jurisdiction. These volumes are expressed using a metric called annual average daily traffic, which is a statistical calculation of the average daily number of vehicles on a segment of roadway. MDOT's surveys in 2010 showed that the highest traffic levels along M-85 were the 42,786 vehicles daily in Wyandotte; the lowest count was 5,976 vehicles per day at the southern terminus. All of M-85 has been listed on the National Highway System, a network of roads important to the country's economy, defense, and mobility. Between the two I-75 interchanges, M-85 is the closest state trunkline to Lake Erie and the Detroit River, making it a part of the Lake Erie Circle Tour (LECT).\n\nIn 1919, the first version of M-85 ran from then M-66 east to M-43 at Stanton in Montcalm County. This highway was later extended in 1929 from Stanton north to Edmore. By the end of 1930, this designation was removed when M-57 was extended through the area. A new M-85 was then designated between Mayville and Caro. This second designation was supplanted by an extended and rerouted M-24 in late 1941 or early 1942.\n\nWhen the Detroit–Toledo Freeway opened in 1956, several local roads were given the M-85 designation between the new freeway in Woodhaven into downtown Detroit to end at US 25/M-17. The northern end was truncated in 1968 to the interchange with I-75 in Detroit when that freeway was completed in the area. In the 1980s, the Great Lakes Circle Tours were created by the state of Michigan in consultation with neighboring states and the province of Ontario; after the tours were created in 1986, M-85 was added to the LECT.\n\nAt the end of 2000, MDOT proposed several highway transfers in Detroit. Some of these involved transferring city streets in the Campus Martius Park area under the department's jurisdiction to city control; another part of the proposal involved MDOT assuming control over a section of Fort Street from the then northern terminus of M-85 to the then southern terminus of M-3 at Clark Street. When these transfers were completed the following year, M-3 was severed into two discontinuous segments by the Campus Martius changes, and the southern segment between Clark and Griswold streets was added to an extended M-85.\n\n"}
{"id": "2248419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248419", "title": "Otterburn, Northumberland", "text": "Otterburn, Northumberland\n\nOtterburn is a small village in Northumberland, England, northwest of Newcastle upon Tyne on the banks of the River Rede, near the confluence of the Otter Burn, from which the village derives its name. It lies within the Cheviot Hills about from the Scottish border. The parish of Otterburn is at the heart of Redesdale, a Northumbrian upland valley.\n\nThe name simply means otter stream, a stream frequented by otters (Old English + ). Otterburn was the site of a major battle in 1388 between English and Scottish armies. The engagement, in which the Scots took Sir Henry Percy captive, is the subject of the English \"Ballad of Chevy Chase\" and the Scots ballad \"Otterburn\".\n\nThe battle of Otterburn ended in an English rout. Despite James Douglas, 2nd Earl of Douglas being killed, Percy was captured and over a thousand of the English were taken, left dead on the field or slain as they fled. The dead were carried to Elsdon church, from Otterburn, where they were buried.\n\nThe modern village grew up around a coaching inn and Otterburn Tower. It was enlarged in the 1950s with the addition of Brierley Gardens, a council estate which was expanded in the 1970s. The village further expanded in the 1990s and 2000s with the new housing development on former farm land at Willow Green.\n\nOtterburn is in the parliamentary constituency of Hexham, Guy Opperman of the Conservative Party is the Member of Parliament.\n\nPrior to Brexit, for the European Parliament its residents voted to elect MEP's for the North East England constituency.\n\nFor Local Government purposes it belongs to Northumberland County Council a unitary authority.\n\nToday, the village is close to the Otterburn Training Area, one of the UK's largest army training ranges at approximately . The village also has an independent general grocery shop, two hotels and Otterburn Mill, an 18th-century woollen mill containing a small museum, outdoor shop and cafe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2248420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248420", "title": "Blue-tailed damselfly", "text": "Blue-tailed damselfly\n\nThe blue-tailed damselfly or common bluetail (\"Ischnura elegans\") is a damselfly, belonging to the family Coenagrionidae.\n\nSubspecies and varieties include:\n\nThis species is present in most of Europe. It is an extremely common species.\n\nThese damselflies can be found in a wide range of lowland environments, with standing and slow flowing waters, brackish and polluted water.\n\n\"Ischnura elegans\" can reach a body length of and a wingspan of about . Hindwings reach alength of . Adult male blue-tailed damselflies have a head and thorax patterned with blue and black. There is a bi-coloured pterostigma on the front wings. Eyes are blue. They have a largely black abdomen with very narrow pale markings where each segment joins the next. Segment eight, however, is entirely pale blue. At rest, the wings of most damselfly species are held back together, unlike dragonflies, which rest with their wings out flat. The thorax of juvenile males has a green tinge.\n\nFemale blue-tailed Damselflies come in a variety of colour forms. Juveniles may be salmon pink, form \"rufescens\"; violet, form \"violacea\" and a pale green form. The colour darkens as the damselfly ages. Mature females may be blue like the male, form \"typica\"; olive green thorax and brown spot, form \"infuscans\" or pale brown thorax and brown spot, form \"infusca-obseleta\".\n\nAdults fly from April to September to early October. The adult damselflies prey on small flying insects, caught using their legs like a basket to scoop the prey up while flying, or insects taken from leaves. Damselfly nymphs are aquatic, and prey on small aquatic insects or other aquatic larvae.\n\nA male can try to interfere with a mating pair, by attaching itself to the mating male.The females always lay their eggs on the floating parts of the plants without any involvement of the male.\n\nBlue-tailed Damselflies are superb fliers and can alter each of their four wing's kinematics in order to maneuver. A recent study has shown that they can compensate for a whole wing loss and even successfully maneuver and catch prey.\n\n"}
{"id": "2248421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248421", "title": "Lovely Rita", "text": "Lovely Rita\n\n\"Lovely Rita\" is a song by the English rock band the Beatles from their 1967 album \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\". It was written and sung by Paul McCartney and credited to Lennon–McCartney. It is about a female traffic warden and the narrator's affection for her.\n\nThe term \"meter-maid\", largely unknown in the UK before the song's release, is American slang for a female traffic warden. According to some sources, \"Lovely Rita\" originates from when a female traffic warden named Meta Davies issued a parking ticket to McCartney outside Abbey Road Studios. Instead of becoming angry, he accepted it with good grace and expressed his feelings in song. When asked why he had called her \"Rita\", McCartney replied, \"Well, she looked like a Rita to me\".\n\nIn his comments to biographer Barry Miles, however, McCartney refuted the idea that this episode inspired the song: \"It wasn't based on a real person. I think it was more a question of coincidence … I didn't think, 'Wow, that woman gave me a ticket, I'll write a song about her.' Never happened like that.\"<ref name=\"Runtagh/RS\"></ref> Author John Winn writes that McCartney's inspiration came from hearing the term \"meter maid\", after which he began writing the song when visiting his brother Michael in Liverpool.\n\nAccording to a contemporary report on the recording of \"Lovely Rita\", in \"Beat Instrumental\" magazine, the lyrics were completed by McCartney and John Lennon during the session. A reproduction of the manuscript shows only the opening chorus and verse in McCartney's handwriting; the remaining lyrics appear in Beatles assistant Mal Evans' handwriting, after he and Neil Aspinall joined the two songwriters in a corner of the studio.\n\nRecording began on 23 February 1967 with eight takes required to achieve a satisfactory basic track. Using a four-track recorder, this first performance featured George Harrison's guitar on track 1, Lennon's guitar on track 2, Ringo Starr's drums on track 3, and McCartney's piano set on track 4. After those individual tracks had been combined in a reduction mix, McCartney overdubbed a bass guitar part.\n\nThe 24 February session was devoted to adding vocals. According to engineer Geoff Emerick, McCartney had told George Martin, the band's producer, that he wanted the backing vocals to replicate how the Beach Boys \"might approach the song\". The Beatles were visited in the studio that evening by Tony Hicks of the Hollies, American musicians David Crosby and Shawn Phillips, and the brother of Ravi Shankar, Harrison's sitar teacher. Also present was Leslie Bryce, a photographer from \"Beatles Monthly\". McCartney recorded his lead vocal with the tape speed reduced, so that his voice sounded at a higher pitch when the speed was corrected. Bryce took photos of Lennon, McCartney, Harrison and Crosby grouped around a microphone, and the \"Beat Instrumental\" report stated that the backing vocals were recorded that night with Crosby's participation. Phillips later supported this and said that he too sang backing vocals with the three Beatles. However, Phillips' recollection is not supported by others, and the group vocals were instead overdubbed on 7 March.\n\nThe session was led by Lennon and recorded with heavy tape echo. Enjoying the lighthearted session, the Beatles also added percussive effects played on comb and paper, serving as handmade kazoos, and vocalised sounds such as moans, sighs and screams. The latter sounds appear over the song's extended coda. Martin later described the session as \"anarchy\", given how little was achieved over the seven hours, and cited it as a precedent for the group's \"undisciplined, sometimes self-indulgent\" method of working on \"Magical Mystery Tour\" later in 1967.\n\nA second piano, played by Martin and processed electromechanically to wobble in and out of tune, was added for the solo on 21 March. This session was again filled with visitors. Among these were the band Pink Floyd, who were recording in a neighbouring studio and gained entry to the session through their producer, Norman Smith, formerly the Beatles' recording engineer. Although Pink Floyd were established as one of the leading bands in the London underground scene, they were intimidated to be in the Beatles' presence. Drummer Nick Mason recalled that they watched the band mixing \"Lovely Rita\" but they were \"God-like figures to us\" and any interaction between the two groups was minimal. Pink Floyd later used effects inspired by \"Lovely Rita\" when recording their instrumental composition \"Pow R. Toc H.\" from their debut album, \"The Piper at the Gates of Dawn\".\n\nThe final mono mix was completed that night, and a month later, the stereo mix was done. During mixdown the tape machine ran at 48.75 Hz instead of the standard 50 Hz, affecting the pitch on the released track. With vari-speed having been applied throughout the recording process, the song's key is around E flat major. According to Martin, \"Lovely Rita\" and \"When I'm Sixty Four\" were the songs that would have been cut from \"Sgt. Pepper\" had the Beatles not been pressured into issuing \"Strawberry Fields Forever\" and \"Penny Lane\" as a non-album single in advance of the album's release. In the opinion of music critic Richie Unterberger, \"Lovely Rita\" is \"one of the more lighthearted songs on \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\", and consequently one of the more critically overlooked\".<ref name=\"Unterberger/AM\"></ref>\n\nMcCartney first performed \"Lovely Rita\" in concert on 4 May 2013, when he opened his Out There! world tour at the Estádio Mineirão in Belo Horizonte, Brazil.\n\nFats Domino included the song on his 1968 album \"Fats Is Back\". Unterberger dismisses Domino's version as a \"none-too-thrilling soul cover\". In 1976, Roy Wood of ELO and Wizzard recorded the song for \"All This and World War II\", a film that set new recordings of 30 Lennon–McCartney compositions to newsreel footage from World War II.\n\nJoan Osborne sings the song on the 2009 Cheap Trick release \"Sgt. Pepper Live\". The Easy Star All-Stars recorded a version with guest vocalists Bunny Rugs and U-Roy for their 2009 \"Sgt. Pepper\" tribute album \"Easy Star's Lonely Hearts Dub Band\".\n\nAccording to Ian MacDonald, the line-up on the Beatles' recording was as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2248422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248422", "title": "Dorf, Germany", "text": "Dorf, Germany\n\nDorf in German translates to \"village\", and -dorf is a common suffix in place names in Germany, Austria, and Switzerland.\n\nDorf, Germany may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2248426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248426", "title": "King County Library System", "text": "King County Library System\n\nThe King County Library System (KCLS) is a library system serving the residents of King County, Washington, United States. Headquartered in Issaquah, Washington, KCLS was the busiest library in the United States as of 2010, circulating 22.4 million items. It consists of 50 libraries, a Traveling Library Center, a mobile TechLab, and the ABC Express children’s library van. KCLS offers a collection of more than 4.1 million items, including books, periodicals, newspapers, audio and videotapes, films, CDs, DVDs and extensive online resources. All KCLS libraries offer free Wi-Fi connections. People can check out 100 items and hold up to 50 items.\n\nThe library system began in 1942 when voters in King County established the King County Rural Library District in order to provide library services to people in \"rural\" areas with no easy access to city libraries. Funding for the library system is provided from property taxes. Funding measures for the system passed in 1966, 1977, 1980, 1988, 2002, 2004, and 2010. Property taxes account for 94% of revenue today. The KCLS budget for 2017 was $120 million. The name of the organization was changed from the King County Rural Library District to the present-day King County Library System in 1978, \nalthough the previous name of \"Rural Library District\" is still part of the organization's legal name.\n\nKCLS extends access privileges to residents of its service area, which includes all unincorporated areas of King County as well as residents of every city in the county except Hunts Point, and Yarrow Point. Residents of Seattle – which maintains its own library system – are allowed access to KCLS collections under reciprocal borrowing agreements between KCLS and Seattle's libraries. KCLS also extends reciprocal borrowing privileges to residents of many other library systems in Western and North Central Washington. The cities of Hunts Point and Yarrow Point do not have library service at all.\n\nUnder a $172 million capital bond passed in 2004, the King County Library system is rebuilding, renovating, and expanding most of its existing libraries, as well as building new libraries.\n\nKCLS has annexed the city of Renton's public library system, the result of a vote by the city's residents in February 2010. This library system includes a library branch built completely over the Cedar River.\n\nIn 2011, KCLS won the Gale/Library Journal \"Library of the Year\" award.\n\nKCLS consists of 50 branches, Traveling Library Center, ABC Express Vans, mobile TechLab, and a service center located in Issaquah that houses the library's administrative offices. A program to build 17 new libraries and renovate or expand 26 other libraries was completed in 2019 with the opening of the Panther Lake Library in Kent.\n"}
{"id": "2248427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248427", "title": "The Dangerous Brothers", "text": "The Dangerous Brothers\n\nThe Dangerous Brothers was a stage and TV act by anarchic comedy duo Rik Mayall and Ade Edmondson, performing respectively as \"Richard Dangerous\" and \"Sir Adrian Dangerous\". Originally appearing on stage in London at the comedy club 'The Comic Strip', the characters were well developed before appearing on TV. First appearing on television on a one off 1980 BBC TV show 'Boom Boom Out Go The Lights', they were also featured in a TV short 'documentary' film 'The Comic Strip', directed by Julien Temple, before they appeared in a number of brief sketches in the TV programme \"Saturday Live\" from 1985 on.\n\nThe act was, in essence, a prototype of the career which the pair were to forge over the next twenty years in such shows as \"Mr Jolly Lives Next Door\"; \"Filthy, Rich and Catflap\"; and \"Bottom\" - two low-life loser perverts hitting each other in spectacular slapstick ways. It was arguably more hazardous than much of the material which was to follow in later incarnations - stage props in the brief run included a live (and very large, although apparently lethargic) crocodile, blank-firing submachine guns, and Edmondson apparently consuming Vim, a well-known UK brand of powder toilet cleaner. One of the early TV sketches 'World of Danger' went wrong when a stunt to set fire to Edmondson's trousers left him with serious burns - although much of this was left on the broadcast version.\nSketch performed on 'BoomBoom Out Go The Lights'\n\n\nSketch performed in 'The Comic Strip'\n\n(The Comic Strip version is a different performance with a slightly different conclusion, and features swearing)\n\nSketches performed on Saturday Live \n\nOne of the final sketches prepared for Saturday Live was entitled 'Kinky Sex'. This fell foul of Channel 4 censors who banned it. The duo responded by apparently hijacking the programme and blowing up the wall on which the show's logo was painted in graffiti art. The sketch, which by modern standards seems fairly tame, was finally released on a compilation video \"The Dangerous Brothers present: World of Danger\". Several Dangerous Brothers sketches are also included on the DVD compilation \"Saturday Live: The Best of Series One\" (2007).\n\nA DVD of all of the sketches featured in the show was released in 2009. However the Kinky Sex episode is taken from a home video source as the original could not be found. Some of the sketches appear to be edited longer and slightly shorter than others. Music edits have also been made, of which some are obvious if you have seen the video. The laughing in the unseen audience is also different, where the video used the real studio audience laughter and also canned laughter. The DVD just uses the original studio audience. The DVD is also known to be very hard to find in retail shops.\n"}
{"id": "2248430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248430", "title": "Good Morning Good Morning", "text": "Good Morning Good Morning\n\n\"Good Morning Good Morning\" is a song by the English rock band the Beatles from their 1967 album \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\". It was written by John Lennon and credited to Lennon–McCartney. Inspiration for the song came to Lennon from a television commercial for Kellogg's Corn Flakes. Another reference to contemporary television was the lyric \"It's time for tea and \"Meet the Wife\"\", referring to the BBC sitcom.\n\nThe basic track was recorded on 8 February 1967, with overdubs on 16 February (bass guitar and lead vocals), 13 March (brass section), 28 March (backing vocals and guitar solo), and 29 March (animal noises). The guitar solo was played by Paul McCartney on a Fender Esquire. At Lennon's request, George Martin brought in Sounds Incorporated to provide the song's prominent brass backing.\n\nLennon asked engineer Geoff Emerick to arrange the animal noises heard at beginning (and end) of the song so that each animal heard was one capable of devouring (or frightening) the animal preceding it. The final sound effect of a chicken clucking was so placed that it transforms into the guitar on the following track, \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band (Reprise)\". These animal noises were inspired by the coda of \"Caroline, No\" that ended The Beach Boys' \"Pet Sounds\" album, one of the main inspirations for this whole album. They begin with the crow of a rooster, while the other animal sounds heard at the end of the song include birds, a cat, a dog, a cow, a horse, a sheep, a lion, an elephant, and a group of bloodhounds accompanying fox hunters on horseback with horns blasting.\n\nThe rapid 16th note bass drum fills were done on two bass drums according to \"The Complete Beatles Recording Sessions\" by Mark Lewisohn. The length of the mono version of \"Good Morning Good Morning\" is 2:35, whereas the stereo version (due to a lengthier fade out of animal sounds) runs to 2:41. The 2017 stereo mix follows the editing style of the mono version, and as a result, it is also 2:35.\n\nFor the Beatles' 2006 remix album \"Love\", the horse sounds were mixed into \"Being for the Benefit of Mr. Kite!\".\n\nThe song is played at 117 beats per minute, has an unusual rhythmic feel and uses different time signatures. Beats are played in groups of 2, 3 and 4, and time signature changes frequently. Parts with and bars alternate, with transitions. Most of the song uses simple time, where the beats are divided into two, but the middle eight sections use compound time, where the beats are divided into triplets.\n\nThe song is divided into seven sections, two of which are repeated once and one twice, in a time-symmetric pattern A, B, C, B, C, B, A (disregarding the fade out of the last bar):\n\nA: 4,4,4,4,4 (introduction: five bars, 20 beats)\nB: 5,5,5,3,4,5,4,3,3,4,4 (eleven bars, 44 beats)\nC: 5,5,5,3,4,4,4,4,4,4 (contains refrain: ten bars, 42 beats)\nB: 5,5,5,3,4,5,4,3,3,4,4 (eleven bars, 44 beats)\nC: 5,5,5,3,4,4,4,4,4,4 (contains refrain: ten bars, 42 beats)\nB: 5,5,5,3,4,5,4,3,3,4,4 (eleven bars, 44 beats)\nA: 4,4,4,4,4,4 (end: six bars, 24 beats, with fade out bar)\n\nThis adds up to 64 bars with 260 beats, which at published 117 beats per minute would result in a length of 2:13,333… minutes.\n\n\nPersonnel per Ian MacDonald:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2248442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248442", "title": "Milltown, County Kerry", "text": "Milltown, County Kerry\n\nMilltown (, meaning \"town of the mill\") is a small town on the N70 national secondary road between the major towns of Tralee and Killarney in County Kerry, Ireland. It is roughly four miles from Killorglin.The Milltown community website can be found at Official website\n\nIn July 2015, a neothilic tomb at Killaclohane near Milltown was excavated and human remains were uncovered that could potentially be 6,000 years old. They are thought to have belonged to the earliest settlers in the south west of the country.\n\nBetween the 13th and 16th centuries, much of land surrounding Milltown was owned by the nearby Killagha Abbey, the ruins of which now stand one and a half miles outside the town. Following the Dissolution of the Monasteries, the estates were granted to the Spring family and then, following the Irish Confederate Wars, to the Godfrey family. The settlement at Milltown was developed by Captain John Godfrey in the 1750s as the central town of their estate. The development of Milltown was a deliberate attempt at urban planning by the Godfreys who hoped such development would increase the income and prosperity of their estate through rents, market tolls and the promotion of industries.\n\nThe Milltown Halt railway station opened on 1 November 1886 and closed on 1 February 1960.\n\nBushfield House was remodelled for Sir William Godfrey, 1st Baronet in the 1770s after the original Bushfield House was destroyed by fire. He renamed the house Kilcoleman Abbey, in reference to Killagha Abbey which formed part of the family estate. Recent research indicates that the new Bushfield was constructed from the remains of an older tower house on lands that originally belonged to the MacCarthy Mor. More or less abandoned from 1800 to 1818, the house was renovated under the second Baronet, Sir John Godfrey, according to ambitious plans drawn up by the famous architect, William Vitruvius Morrison. However the general economic decline of the 1820s and family misfortunes meant that only the stables and service wing, with its Flemish gables, were completed as planned. Later, in the early 1840s, Sir William Godfrey, 3rd Baronet further modified the main block of the house, adding an attic storey, a turret emblazoned with the Red Hand of Ulster, the traditional shield of a Baronet and assorted gables, pinnacles and buttresses. Inside, the main reception rooms were remodelled in the then-popular Gothic style with fine plasterwork by local craftsmen, making liberal use of the Godfrey crest. The entrance hall was dominated by a fine bust of Eleanor, Lady Godfrey, carved in Florence in 1817. The house was the centre of a 6,000-acre estate and was lived in continually by the Godfrey family until 1958. The last owner, Miss Phyllis Godfrey, confronted by a dreadful infestation of dry rot, was eventually forced to abandon the house for the gate lodge where she died in December 1959. The house was eventually demolished in the 1977.\n\nMilltown has five pubs, three take-away restaurants, a bakery, two vets, a butcher's shop, a Roman Catholic parish church, a Church of Ireland church, two schools and a shopping market. Milltown itself hosts a number of annual festivals and events including the World Bodhrán Championships. Fr. Kevin Sullivan is the parish priest.\n\nLike other villages in Kerry such as Firies and Lixnaw, Milltown has grown substantially in recent years, with a number of housing developments being built. The Census of Ireland 2011 showed that Milltown was the fastest growing village in Kerry between 2006 and 2011, in which time its population more than doubled from 401 to 838.\n\nMilltown/Castlemaine GAA Club is the local Gaelic Athletic Association club.\n\n"}
{"id": "2248443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248443", "title": "Umbrail Pass", "text": "Umbrail Pass\n\nUmbrail Pass (el. ) is a high mountain pass on the Swiss-Italian border connecting Santa Maria in Val Müstair with Bormio in the Adda valley. On the Italian side, it connects to the Stelvio Pass road. It is currently the highest paved road in Switzerland.\n\nThe sign at the top of the pass gives its altitude as 2,503 meters above sea level, but the reference level for Swiss altitude measurements has changed since the sign was erected, leaving 2,501 meters as the correct value according to current methods.\n\nThe pass is named after the \"Piz Umbrail\", a nearby mountain peak.\n\nThe road is entirely asphalted since 2015. The last unpaved section was a 1.5 km stretch on the Swiss side between altitudes 1883m and 2012m. During the 2017 Giro d'Italia, Umbrail Pass was reached during the stage from Rovetta to Bormio.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2248446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248446", "title": "National Football League Quarterback Challenge", "text": "National Football League Quarterback Challenge\n\nThe NFL's Quarterback Challenge was an annual competition of National Football League quarterbacks, sponsored in part by DirecTV, produced by NFL Players Inc. and NFL QB Greats. The first NFL Quarterback Challenge took place in 1990. Previously it was sponsored by 989 Sports and in 2005 by Electronic Arts EA Sports.\nEach of the quarterback challenges had different events that would test each quarterback's skills, with points being given to each quarterback. Whichever quarterback had the most points at the end of all the events, would win the challenge, with rewards also given to the quarterback who won each event. The events included the following:\n\nSpeed and Mobility : \nPenalties for knocking over obstacles and missing targets\nBonus for hitting the bullseye or inner ring\nTop two advance to the final round\nQBC 7.61 seconds (Rick Mirer, 1995)\n\nFor this event, each quarterback would go run a slalom-like course, where they would have to run around cones, past cardboard cutouts of defenders, and a jump over a small hurdle and throw a pass at a target. Depending on where the target was hit by the football, the quarterback would have fractions of a second deducted from their overall time, such as .5 seconds being deducted if the quarterback hits the bullseye, or .25 seconds if they hit the outer ring of the target. The fastest time, including the deductions, was the winner.\nCourse outline:\n1st Duck back right, run around the cone\n2nd through ring\n3rd run left \n4th run right right \n5th over hurdle \n6th throw into ring; red = 0.5 bonus, white = 0.25 bonus, grey = 0.00 \nAccuracy: \n30 seconds to complete the course, closer to bullseye = higher score. \nHighest possible score - 84 points\nQBC record - Troy Aikman, 70 points (1995)\n1st cart; 6, 8, 10 points over 3 balls, cart cutting diagonal right to left like a post route\nMax score 30\n2nd group; 6, 8, 10 points over 3 balls, cart cutting left to right like an in route \nMax score 30\n3rd group; 12,18 24 points over 1 ball, deep post about 40 yards \nMax score 24 \n \nLong Distance: Each quarterback tries to throw a football as far as they can, with the quarterbacks with the top three distances getting a chance to try again. The quarterbacks also have to keep the balls in bounds, or their throws wouldn't count. The winner of the event was the quarterback with the longest pass.\nBetter of 2 throws count\nIF tie, 1 throw shoot out\n2 points awarded every yard past 50 yards\nQBC record - Vinny Testaverde, 80 yards (1988)\n\nRead & Recognition: Each quarterback throws a football at moving targets, but only the targets designated by a yellow flag, with each quarterback having four attempts.\n\nIf tie, 1 throw shootout\nHighest possible score: 192\n4 attempts aiming for short, medium or long targets\nShort; 6,8,12 \none from left, one from right crossing\nMedium; 18,27,36 \none from left, one from right crossing \nLong; 30,45,60 \n(2 chances only) \nQBC record - Neil O'Donnell (1996) & Brett Favre (1997), 111 points\n\nNFL-licensed \"NFL Quarterback Challenge\", created by ProAppSports and produced by Adisoft Studios is currently available on Apple's iPhone and iPod Touch devices. An officially NFL-licensed Quarterback Challenge appeared in 2 other different console video games. Both video game versions appeared in the same Quarterback Club series of games by Acclaim Entertainment. The Quarterback Challenge mode appeared in the first and last versions of the game series. The first was in the original Quarterback Club game released in 1994 on the Super Nintendo Entertainment System and Sega Genesis. The second and final appearance of the challenge was in NFL QB Club 2002, published in 2001 for the PlayStation 2 and GameCube. The first version was a sprite-based 2D game, while the later version was fully 3D. Both of these games and all games in this series were developed by Iguana Entertainment in Austin, Texas. The 1994 SNES/Genesis version was produced by Russell Byrd. The 2001 PS2/GameCube version was produced by Charles Normann.\n\nOn November 2007 NFL cancelled Quarterback Challenge. Cayman Islands Tourism confirmed on March 8, 2008 that the NFL officially discontinued the competition indefinitely.\n\n"}
