{"id": "2305988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2305988", "title": "FitNesse", "text": "FitNesse\n\nFitNesse is a web server, a wiki and an automated testing tool for software. It is based on Ward Cunningham's Framework for Integrated Test and is designed to support acceptance testing rather than unit testing in that it facilitates detailed readable description of system function.\n\nFitNesse allows users of a developed system to enter specially formatted input (its format is accessible to non-programmers). This input is interpreted and tests are created automatically. These tests are then executed by the system and output is returned to the user. The advantage of this approach is very fast feedback from users. The developer of the system to be tested needs to provide some support (classes named \"fixtures\", conforming to certain conventions).\n\nFitNesse is written in Java (by Micah Martin with help from Robert C. Martin and others). The program first supported only Java, but versions for several other languages have been added over time (C++, Python, Ruby, Delphi, C#, etc.).\n\nFitNesse was originally designed as a highly usable interface around the Fit framework. As such its intention is to support an agile style of black-box testing acceptance and regression testing. In this style of testing the functional testers in a software development project collaborate with the software developers to develop a testing suite.\n\nFitNesse testing is based around the notation of black-box testing, in which a system under test is considered to be a black box and is tested in terms of the outputs generated in response to predetermined inputs. A functional tester is responsible for designing the tests in a functional sense and expressing them within the FitNesse tool, whereas the software developer is responsible for connecting the FitNesse tool to the system under test so that FitNesse can execute the test and compare the actual output to the expected output.\n\nThe idea behind this testing method, as described in \"Fit for Developing Software\", is that the forced collaboration of testers and developers will improve mutual understanding of the system and requirements by forcing the two groups to develop a common language as they learn to communicate together.\n\nTests are described in Fitnesse as couplings of inputs and expected outputs. These couplings are expressed variations of a decision table. The FitNesse tool supports several of these variations, ranging from literal decision tables to tables that execute queries to tables that express testing scripts (i.e. a literal ordering of steps that must be followed to reach a result). The most generic form is a fully free-form table that can be interpreted in any way the test designers like. All tests are expressed in the shape of some sort of table, however.\n\nFitNesse is focused entirely on easily creating tests, allowing testers and developers to focus on creating high-quality tests rather than getting lost in the mechanics of executing a test. Given the way FitNesse works, creating tests easily involves three factors:\n\nIn order to meet these requirements, FitNesse leverages the wiki mechanism. Wikis classically allow for the easy and rapid creation of HTML pages and particularly simplify the expression of tables. These qualities make the basic WikiWiki language an ideal choice for a \"user interface\" for FitNesse: on the one hand it allows for the simple expression of very free-form tables, on the other hand it limits the contents of those tables to rather simple text. This means that the WikiWiki language can handle whatever shape of table is required for a particular test and at the same time limits the contents of those tables to alphanumeric text that can easily be mapped into a call to a piece of software. Finally, since each test in FitNesse is a wiki page it is possible to embed each testing table within wiki text; this allows a functional tester to include descriptive text with a reasonable layout quickly.\n\nFitNesse is a tool developed in Java and shipped as a single, executable jar file. The executable includes a wiki engine, an embedded web server, a testing engine and all the resources (images, stylesheets and so on) required to create a web site in FitNesse's own style.\n\nFitNesse is focused very much on ease of use as a testing tool. As such it ships with all required components on board: upon execution the tool launches an embedded web server which allows test pages to be exposed locally or across the Internet with equal ease. The embedded server is quite lightweight and can be run from a laptop as well as full server machine.\n\nUpon launch the tool deploys its own Wiki engine into its embedded server. This Wiki engine is similarly focused on simplicity, meaning that it does not require a backing database to run — it simply creates a file-based collection of Wiki pages which are interpreted by the Wiki engine and served by the embedded web server. The default wiki created by the tool includes the FitNesse user guide and some examples. The default document repository is created complete with everything needed to publish a default wiki in the FitNesse style (that is, all the images, stylesheets, JavaScript files and so on are created together with the basic wiki page repository).\n\nThe wiki engine is quite basic, but does offer all the basic facilities common among wiki engines: a search engine, revision history per page and a file overview. It also offers some refactoring operations that allow for deleting, moving and renaming files. In addition the wiki engine offers some test-specific facilities, such as standard buttons to run tests, ways of defining individual test pages and suites of tests and a historic overview of test results for trend analysis. Finally the engine offers some minor security facilities for locking pages and securing access to the wiki.\n\nTesting within the FitNesse system involves four components per test:\n\n\nOf these components the software development team produces two: the wiki page and the fixture (of course it also produces the system under test, but from the point of view of the black-box test only two). The wiki page includes some form of decision table which expresses a test. For example, it might express tests for a component that performs division (the example is based on the one given in the FitNesse Two Minute Example):\n\nThe link between the generic testing engine and the system under test is made by a piece of Java code called a fixture. In the case of the table above this code might look like this:\npublic class DivisionComponentTest extends ColumnFixture {\n\nThe mapping between the wiki page and the fixture is a straightforward convert-to-camel case mapping. This mapping applies to all table headings and is used to identify the name of the fixture class as well as the methods of the fixture. A heading ending in a question mark is interpreted as a value to be read from the fixture, other headers are considered inputs to the fixture. Methods of the fixture are called in column order of the decision table, from left to right.\n\nThe actual mapping as described above (as well as the invocation of fixture methods) is done by a testing engine. FitNesse supports two of these engines: the FIT engine and the SLIM engine.\n\nMore than an engine, FIT is a testing framework unto itself. It combines functionality to invoke tests, interpret wiki pages and generate output pages. FitNesse was originally built around FIT as a user interface, which inspired the name of the tool.\n\nFIT is a framework that combines many responsibilities in testing rather than separating responsibilities neatly. The software developer pays a price for this fact in that fixtures for the FIT engine must inherit from FIT framework base classes. This can be inconvenient in Java, as it means that the framework claims a developer's one chance at class inheritance. It also means that a fixture, by its nature, is a heavyweight construct. These considerations have prompted the FitNesse team in recent years to move to the SLIM testing engine.\n\nSLIM (Simple List Invocation Method) is an alternative to Fit.\nThe SLIM engine is an implementation of the Slim Protocol. Rather than combining all the elements of wiki-based testing, the SLIM engine concentrates only on invoking the fixture; it runs as a separate server which is invoked remotely by the FitNesse wiki engine. The interpretation of the wiki page and the generation of the result page is now part of the wiki engine.\n\nThe SLIM engine allows for far more light-weight fixtures which are simple POJOs. These fixtures are not required to extend or use any framework classes, which simplifies their design and allows the fixture designer to concentrate on calling the system under test properly and in the simplest way possible. It also keeps the inheritance route open, allowing fixture developers to create fixture hierarchies if necessary.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2305994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2305994", "title": "List of Wisconsin magazines", "text": "List of Wisconsin magazines\n\nThis is a list of magazines published in Wisconsin:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306000", "title": "WPBS (AM)", "text": "WPBS (AM)\n\nWPBS (1040 kHz) is an commercial AM radio station licensed to the city of Conyers, Georgia. It broadcasts a Vietnamese language music and talk radio format for the Atlanta media market. The station is considered a Class D AM radio facility by the Federal Communications Commission, operating with 50,000 watts of power during the daytime, and 5,500 watts during critical hours (around sunrise and sunset) using a non-directional antenna. The station must sign off after local sunset to avoid interference to WHO in Des Moines, Iowa which is a Class A clear channel station on the same frequency.\n\nThe radio station WPBS (AM) is not related to the Watertown, New York-based PBS TV station WPBS-TV or the Public Broadcasting Service.\n\nThe station signed on 1050 kHz in 1979 as WCGA. The format was a locally produced and formatted CHR. It became automated as WTPO in 1986. The format then became gospel as WPBE (\"Praise 1050\") in 1989. In September 2003, the station changed operating frequency from its original 1050 kHz to its current dial position on 1040 kHz. In May 2005, the station changed its programming format from gospel music to the \"Planeta X\" Spanish talk radio format (which moved from 1310 WPBC).\n\nIn early 2008, it changed formats to \"Spice Radio Atlanta\" broadcasting with Desi/Hindi music and talk.\n\nBy mid-2009, the station was simulcasting with 1080 WFTD's \"Atlanta Radio Korea\" programming. The Korean programming of \"Atlanta Radio Korea\" was then heard exclusively on WPBS and dropped from WFTD which then started carrying Spanish language programming.\n\nWhen Atlanta Radio Korea, owners of WPBS, purchased WQXI from Entercom and flipped it to from its simulcast of WSTR on December 15, Vietsong Media, owners of WFTD, purchased WPBS and has flipped the format to Vietnamese radio, as of January 1, 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306004", "title": "2008 Taiwanese presidential election", "text": "2008 Taiwanese presidential election\n\nThe 12th President and Vice President election of the Republic of China () was held on 22 March 2008. Kuomintang (KMT) nominee Ma Ying-jeou won with 58% of the vote, ending eight years of Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) rule. Along with the 2008 legislative election, Ma's landslide victory brought the Kuomintang back to power in Taiwan.\n\nThis was the fourth direct election for the President of the Republic of China. The two candidates were Democratic Progressive Party candidate Frank Hsieh and Kuomintang (KMT) nominee Ma Ying-jeou. The KMT ticket was officially formed as of June 23, 2007, with Ma announcing his choice for running mate to be former premier Vincent Siew. The DPP ticket was announced in August, 2007, with Frank Hsieh selecting former Premier Su Tseng-chang. Unlike the 2004 presidential election, the political rhetoric of the campaigns tended to focus on economic issues and government corruption rather than national identity and the political status of Taiwan, with both candidates endorsing the status quo in the short term. But much like previous elections, this election was also marked with island-wide mass rallies and much political mudslinging.\n\nThe KMT ticket received a larger percentage and more votes than any other candidate in the previous three direct presidential elections. The election occurred as incumbent President Chen Shui-bian's popularity remained at record lows following mass rallies in September 2006 urging him to resign amid implications of corruption. Amid general economic malaise, as unemployment had risen under Chen's presidency and Taiwan's per capita GDP was surpassed by that of South Korea, Ma won on a platform of economic revitalization and a promise to improve cross-straits relations, in contrast to Chen's confrontational style, as \"a peacemaker not a troublemaker\". The election occurred in the wake of the KMT's landslide victory in the 2008 legislative elections in which the Pan-Blue Coalition won a three-quarters majority in the Legislative Yuan. On the same day two referenda on joining the United Nations, the first supported by the DPP of President Chen and the second supported by the KMT, failed due to low turnout. Prior to the vote, the KMT had encouraged its supporters to boycott the DPP referendum, and expressed its \"understanding\" if supporters boycotted both.\n\nCandidates were to register with their respective parties March 5–9, 2007, for a primary election. Selection of candidates for President in Taiwan, unlike most other nations, were weighed. The actual primary election results accounted for 30% of the final outcome while public opinion polls accounted for the other 70%. Final tallies were announced May 30, 2007.\n\nLeading candidates for the Democratic Progressive Party \"Four Heavenly Kings\" (a less literal translation in English that perhaps gives the meaning more clearly is the \"Four Heavyweights\") sans incumbent President Chen Shui-bian (who was barred from running due to term limits)—Frank Hsieh, Su Tseng-chang, and Yu Shyi-kun—and incumbent vice president Annette Lu. All three of the men had served as premier under Chen Shui-bian and as DPP chairman during part of the Chen presidency. In addition, Hsieh has been a popular mayor of Kaohsiung, Su has been county magistrate of Taipei County and Pingtung County, and Yu served as Secretary-General in the Office of the President.\n\nOn May 6, 2007, the DPP primaries took place in all 24 cities and counties in Taiwan. There were 254,963 eligible voters, with voter turnout at 56.06%. Former premier Frank Hsieh emerged as the winner of the DPP primaries, winning 17 of 24 cities and counties with 62,849 votes, about 44% of the votes cast. Despite the fact that the primary results only account for 30% of the final outcome in determining the nominee, fellow DPP candidates Su, who got 46,994 votes; Yu, with 22,211 votes; and Lu with 8,666 votes, endorsed Hsieh before the second stage primary, based on opinion polls, was held, causing the DPP to cancel the second stage primary.\n\nThe junior partner in the pan-green coalition, the Taiwan Solidarity Union, neither fielded nor endorsed a candidate. TSU Chairman Shu Chin-chiang seemingly endorsed Ma on September 19, 2007 when he referred to Ma as \"our President-to-be.\" At the same time, several TSU legislators stated that they would support DPP candidate Frank Hsieh. In December, Lee Teng-hui, considered the \"spiritual leader\" of the TSU, rescinded his support of Chen in 2004, and urged citizens against voting for the DPP in upcoming legislative elections. While Lee openly denounced supporting the ruling DPP party, he stopped short of endorsing any party or candidate and waited until March 20, 2008 (two days before the election) to endorse Hsieh.\n\nFollowing the KMT's defeat in 2004 and before the 2005 KMT chairman election, Taipei Mayor Ma Ying-jeou and Legislative Yuan President Wang Jin-pyng were both considered leading candidates for the nomination. Ma's landslide victory over Wang in the 2005 KMT chairman election immediately made him the frontrunner. His position was furthered bolstered by the KMT's victories in the 2005 3-in-1 local elections. Ma Ying-jeou began his campaign before his announcement for candidacy, taking trips Europe and Japan in 2006, nominally to obtain business deals for Taipei, but covered widely by the media for his foreign policy remarks. He met with numerous politicians in Washington, DC, including U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Robert Zoellick. Significantly, Ma Ying-jeou became the first head of a pan-Blue coalition party to state that declaring \"de jure\" Taiwanese independence was a legitimate choice of the Taiwanese people, though he qualified it saying that this was not a position of the KMT, after receiving much criticism from pan-Blue politicians. He also stated that Taiwan should form a common market with mainland China and establish direct transportation links.\n\nOn February 13, 2007 Ma was indicted for misuse of official funds as Taipei Mayor and announced his candidacy as he resigned the KMT chairmanship. He was formally nominated as the KMT candidate on May 2, 2007. Wang did not run against Ma, who was virtually unopposed. Final approval of the nomination was passed by the KMT congress in June. Wang was an early frontrunner to be Ma's running-mate but declined the position absent of assurances from Ma of what responsibilities he would hold as vice president. Other leading candidates were Wu Den-yih, incumbent KMT general secretary; Jason Lin, CEO of Uni-President Group; and Tsai Ing-wen, a DPP member and former vice-premier. On June 23, 2007, Ma officially announced former premier and former vice-presidential candidate (in 2000) Vincent Siew as his running mate, praising Siew's economic experience and declaring the economy to be the central focus of his campaign.\n\nNeither the New Party nor the People First Party, junior partners of the KMT in the \"Pan-Blue Coalition,\" fielded a candidate and endorsed the KMT ticket. PFP Chairman James Soong appeared at KMT headquarters once Ma's victory became apparent and pledged to dissolve the PFP to join the KMT.\n\nTens of thousands of Taiwanese waved banners and shouted political slogans March 16, 2008, as the island's rival parties rallied support ahead of the March 22, 2008 presidential elections, with the March 2008 violence in Tibet in the background and Taiwan's own relations with the China on the front burner. The Taiwan-wide events were meant to energize supporters in the home stretch of a race that has so far lacked the passion and commitment of presidential elections in 2000 and 2004.\n\nSince selecting Vincent Siew as his running mate, Ma announced that the focus of his election campaign was the recovery of the Taiwanese economy. He said that the independence—reunification debate is a \"fake issue\" with no bearing on the general welfare of the Taiwanese people. He also labeled Siew as the would-be \"chief architect\" to revive the economy, because of Siew's solid economic background.\n\nMa proposed a common market with China; Hsieh said this would lead to job losses and importation of dangerous Chinese products, referring to lead-contaminated toys from Mattel and an excess of highly qualified workers from China.\n\nThe investigations into alleged misuse of funds by members of both the KMT and DPP were another hot topic.\n\nPresident Chen Shui-Bian suffered a large loss in popularity due to corruption allegations concerning his family. The KMT attempted to capitalize on Ma's public image as a man of integrity, which stemmed from his investigations into vote-buying within his own party while he served as Justice Minister in the early 90s. Ma resigned as Justice Minister in the mid-1990s and his political career was considered to be over due to what some thought was his zealous investigation of corruption. However, Ma Ying-Jeou was indicted on charges of misusing his Mayoral discretionary funds, which was intended for funding personal expenses related to official duties. Ma moved half of the funds into his personal accounts, and his defense was that this practice was standard among government officials. Ma maintained his innocence and stated that the indictment amounted to political prosecution and he would not give up his run for presidency even if found guilty.\n\nDPP candidate Frank Hsieh came under investigation for similar charges in irregularity and misuse of funds while he served as mayor of Kaohsiung. However, different from Ma, Hsieh stated that if he was found guilty in his Mayoral funds case, he would not continue running for president.\n\nOn August 12, 2007, Ma was acquitted of misusing the funds, but one of his office clerk was found guilty and faced a year in prison for his own failures in administrative duties.\n\nAs is common with Taiwanese elections, an important issue in the election is the future political status of Taiwan and maintenance of good cross-straits relations and avoidance of war with China (PRC). In general, the DPP favors Taiwan independence; the KMT, on the other hand, promotes the one-China principle and desires eventual unification of Taiwan with mainland China, as the KMT still regards the ROC as the sole legitimate government of China. The KMT's main objective is to establish a closer economic relationship with mainland China. It was widely recognized that no candidate could win without supporting the status quo of de facto autonomy and ambiguous legal status (as they did in 2004) in order to attract centrist voters. Also, in 2004, both mainstream candidates recognized eventual unification and independence as a possible option as a means to attract the center. The strategy of both sides, as was the case in 2004, was to persuade voters that it can best maintain the status quo and protect Taiwan from coerced unification by China.\n\nWhile the smaller, more radical TSU favors immediate moves to rename the country as Republic of Taiwan, the much more mainstream DPP under Chen Shui-bian has taken a more moderate position regarding independence during incumbency. At the same time the Chen administration has moved to promote a separate Taiwanese identity and give official recognition to Taiwan's de facto independence from the mainland such as by equating Taiwan with the Republic of China. The front-runners for the DPP nomination are all considered more moderate then Chen Shui-bian.\n\nThe KMT party line is against one country, two systems, but supports dialogue with the Communist Party of China under the \"1992 Consensus\" which presumes one China, different interpretations. During the campaign, Ma articulated a three noes policy, no independence, no unification, no use of force. He has also stated that during his first term of office, he will not discuss unification, make no changes to the ROC constitution, and will not personally meet Hu Jintao.\n\nThe DPP, in contrast, opposes recognizing One China (a prerequisite set by the PRC for negotiations), and no official talks have occurred under the Chen administration. The DPP also denies that there ever was a consensus in 1992. Both sides supports opening of the three links with mainland China, but with different focus on time and security. Difficulty comes from the PRC's refusal to negotiate unless the Taiwanese counterparty accepts the one-China principle under the 1992 consensus, which only allows the KMT to start three links in early incumbency.\n\nDuring the presidency of Chen Shui-bian, some state-controlled and state-owned firms have restored or added \"Taiwan\" to their names, such as renaming Chunghwa Post (Chinese Post) to Taiwan Post, the name it bore into the ROC period of rule on Taiwan; and Chiang Kai-Shek International Airport to Taiwan Taoyuan International Airport, its originally planned name. The naming controversy of the Chiang Kai-shek Memorial Hall and the legality of the Central Government's name-change administrative order was another topic of heated debate. Some observers viewed the name changes as signs of reactionary desinicization, while others viewed the name changing as signs of Taiwan localization movement carving a separate identity for Taiwan's name. The issue was, like most others, split strongly between Pan-Blue and Pan-Green supporters.\n\nPresident-Elect Ma Ying-jeou pledged that he would revert the name changes of national landmarks, government organizations, and government-owned corporations conducted by the Chen Shui-bian administration. The Pan-Blue generally considered these name changes to be illegal because they were done through administrative orders, bypassing the Pan-Blue dominated legislature. Further examples of landmarks and organizations that were renamed are Chinese Petroleum Company and China Shipbuilding Corporation.\n\nDuring the campaign, Democratic Progressive Party presidential candidate Frank Hsieh and DPP legislators questioned Ma Ying-jeou's loyalty to the Republic of China and to the people of Taiwan. Hsieh stated that Ma would not have become former President Chiang Ching-kuo's English secretary in 1977 if Chiang had known that Ma was in possession of a green card and his status as a US permanent resident.\n\nWhen asked, Ma Ying-jeou stated that he and his family members did not have green cards. He later clarified that he once possessed one. He also stated that he had not violated any law by possessing a US green card and that he never intended to hide the fact he was once a US permanent resident. He also maintained that possession of a green card, as well as having the status as a US permanent resident, was not against any government regulations at the time. Ma also stated that he believed that his green card was automatically invalidated when he applied for a US visa at the American Institute in Taiwan in 1985. Hsieh's questioning of his opponent's residency status extended to Ma's family members who carried US passports and citizenship, including Ma's US born daughter Lesley Weichung Ma. Ma's response was that\n\nTwo TVBS political opinion poll conducted after Hsieh released his statement showed a slight dip in Ma Ying-jeou's support, but was well within the margin of error.\n\nFour pan-blue legislators attempted to enter the Hsieh election headquarters without permission, with the reason that they were there to investigate the claim that the government provided them office space for free. Hsieh's supporters surrounded them and blocked them as they tried to leave; fighting broke out. The pan-green called it an illegal search and said the pan-blue camp will carry out further similar actions if they controlled both the executive and legislature.\n\nThe legislators were labeled the \"Four Idiots\"(四個笨蛋) by the media and suspended from the party. Ma apologized for their actions on six separate occasions.\n\nIt is illegal to publish opinion polls in the ten days leading up to the election, but gambling syndicates changed their offering to \"Ma wins by 200,000 votes\" bets, down from \"Ma wins by 500,000 votes\" bets before the incident. \n\nOn March 16, 2008, standing for DPP candidate Frank Hsieh at a rally in Taichung, Chuang Kuo-jung, a deputy secretary for the Department of Education, called Ma Ying-jeou a \"chicken\" and further insulted his father and family. He mentioned a recent discovery by a magazine investigation that Ma's father Ma Ho-ling was proven to have slept with his foster daughter in the past. This drew the wrath of the Taiwanese public. With more investigations by broadcasting channels, the claims were deemed fake. DPP officials felt that the wording used by Chuang was insulting and inappropriate, and therefore, publicly apologized for Chuang's uncalled for and profane remarks. His speech was ridden with distaste and foul language deemed inappropriate for broadcast television, and had to be censored by NCC. Chuang initially resigned from his post as secretary of the Ministry of Education without an apology. Minister Tu accepted the resignations, after reservations. The next day, Chuang issued a formal apology through media.\n\nChuang's behavior has consequences affecting his teaching position at the National Chengchi University. As of June 19, 2008, the faculty panel has decided not to renew his teaching contract for the following school year.\n\nHsieh seized on the 2008 unrest in Tibet to shift the focus of the campaign away from economic issues and accuse Ma of wanting to make Taiwan a \"second Tibet\". Ma was more cautious, and said he didn't know who was responsible for the violence. Government ministers tried to help Hsieh by ominously comparing a reunified Taiwan with Tibet, and pressuring China to speak with the Dalai Lama. Ma himself tried to capitalize on the Tibet issue by suggesting a boycott of the 2008 Beijing Olympics. Hsieh fired back that it would only hurt the Chinese Taipei athletes, and that that proved that Ma was a \"cold-hearted person\". But while there was speculation that Tibet could become a swing issue, the final vote went as predicted.\n\nOpinion polls were held by various news agencies and organizations in Taiwan during the election campaign. Before the election, the last of such polls was published on March 11, 2008 because, according to ROC law, opinion polls could not be published within ten days of the election. However, polls can still be taken during the ten days.\n\nThe election was by direct popular vote; a simple plurality was required to win. According to the Constitution of the Republic of China, all citizens of at least 20 years of age who have held household registration in the \"Free Area of the Republic of China\" (Taiwan, Penghu, Kinmen, Matsu, etc.) were eligible to vote. Under existing law, all voters travelled to their registered precincts to vote. Ballots were counted by hand at the precincts and the KMT declared victory less than three hours after the close of polls at 4:00 pm.\n\nBecause of KMT strategy of having people boycott the referendum, one major controversy, like in 2004 was the format of the polling, specifically as whether the referendum questions would be on the same or different ballots as the Presidency. While in 2004 the Central Electoral Commission allowed U shaped line in which people would first cast a ballot for President and then cast a separate ballot for each of the two questions, the Commission ordered voters to cast all votes at once on separate ballots. Voters who choose not to cast a referendum ballot simply declined to pick up the extra two ballots.\n\nPolls closed at 16:00 local time (UTC+8) on March 22, 2008. The final result, with all 14,401 precincts reporting, showed a landslide victory for the KMT candidate Ma Ying-jeou over the DPP candidate Frank Hsieh, with 7,658,724 votes, 58.45% of the popular vote for Ma against 5,445,239 votes, 41.55% for Hsieh. Turnout was 76.33%, with 13.2 million votes from 17.3 million eligible voters. The CEC released the final results with 100% of precincts reporting.\n\nOne local media commentator analyzed that their primary concern may be more economic than political, and\nquoted Bill Clinton's famous slogan, \"\"It's the economy, stupid\"\", as an explanation of the landslide victory for Ma. There was a sizeable number of Taiwanese who would prefer maintaining the status quo, a position favoured by Ma when he proclaimed that he would \"not push for Taiwan independence or reunification with China if elected\".\n\nIn various KMT headquarters throughout Taiwan, celebrations of the party's landslide victory took place. The largest event was located at the Main KMT Headquarters in Taipei. Former Chairman Lien Chan, Legislative Yuan Speaker Wang Jin-pyng, Chairman Wu Po-hsiung were presented and celebrated with the large crowd. At 7:30 pm, Presidential-elect Ma Ying-jeou came out and spoke about what is expected of his new government when it begins office on May 20, 2008.\n\nMany DPP supporters were very disappointed with the results of the election. Various DPP members went on stage at the party's Central Headquarters in Taipei and apologised to the Taiwanese people. Runner-up Presidential candidate Frank Hsieh stated that the result should be considered a blow to himself rather than a blow to Taiwan's young democracy. He pledged he would never again run for public office. The DPP leaders ended the day by bowing down to the crowd.\n\nAfter a press conference on March 23 where Ma stated that he will work to open up the Three Links and improve cross-strait relations, Taiwan's stock market saw a large rise. The accumulated index jumped 534 points to 9049. 1100 listed companies saw their share prices rise. Of these, financial stocks all rose to trading limit levels, with transportation companies, speculated to benefit from improved relations with mainland China, also quickly reaching price rise limits. Other sectors that saw strong rises include large conglomerates, real property, electronics and technology.\n\nConsistently with its silence before the election, the PRC government refrained from commenting directly on the election results, and PRC media, which follows instructions on reporting from the government, has been very quiet as to the result of the elections. Also consistently with its behaviour before the election, the Taiwan Affairs Office of the State Council of the People's Republic of China commented on the failure of the two United Nations-related referenda held concurrently with the election, stating that the results showed the lack of popular support for independence in Taiwan. The Bureau also expressed optimism for the two governments to work together to maintain cross-strait peace and aid development in future. It is speculated that the mainland government would be pleased with the result.\n\nWhile also refraining from commenting directly on the results, the \"People's Daily\", the official newspaper of the Communist Party of China prominently displayed the election results, including the photos and brief biographies of the winning candidates, on its website. This, speculated Hong Kong's \"Ming Pao\", showed signs of positive interaction between the two governments in future.\n\nSingapore was the first country to send official congratulatory messages about the election results. It has since been the only country to do so together with the United States. China has thus far not responded to these messages.\n\nMost other countries chose to issue general statements without specifically congratulating anyone:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306005", "title": "Yearim", "text": "Yearim\n\nYearim Productions Co., Ltd., () founded in 1991, is a full service 2D (including digital animation) Korean animation studio located in Seoul, South Korea with a satellite office in Los Angeles.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306009", "title": "Don't Let Daddy Kiss Me", "text": "Don't Let Daddy Kiss Me\n\n\"Don't Let Daddy Kiss Me\" is a song by the British heavy metal band Motörhead. It was written by Lemmy and released as a single in 1993. The song is covered with \"Born to Raise Hell\", which was released as a separate single, and \"Death or Glory\". All three songs are from the \"Bastards\" album.\n\nThe song is about child sexual abuse, and was one of Lemmy's favourites. Written three years before being recorded, Lemmy offered it to Lita Ford and Joan Jett, amongst others and although much enthusiasm was received, he ended up recording it himself. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306010", "title": "Magyar Posta", "text": "Magyar Posta\n\nMagyar Posta Zrt. (Hungarian for \"Hungarian Post JSC\") or Hungary Post is the postal administration of Hungary. Besides normal mail delivery, Magyar Posta also offers logistics, banking, and marketing services.\n\nThe origin of the Magyar Post was the independent national public institution called Magyar Királyi Posta established in 1867 as part of the Austro-Hungarian Compromise of 1867. While at first it used the stamps of the Austrian Empire, in 1871 it issued its own stamps.\nThe Magyar Királyi Posta was the first to experiment with the motorization of the postal conveyances, beginning in 1897. In 1900 they adopted János Csonka's motorized tricycle which continued in use by the postal service until the 1920s.\n\nIn 1918 they briefly dropped the \"Királyi\" from their name during the First Hungarian Republic (1918-1920), and restored it under the regency beginning in 1920. In 1945 under the provisional government it again became just Magyar Post.\nThe Magyar Post became an independent agency in 1983. On January 1, 1990, during the change of regime, the unified Magyar Posta was divided into three organizations. The telephone service was spun off into the Hungarian Telecommunications Company, and broadcasting became the Hungarian Broadcasting Company. Magyar Post became a separate and independent corporation under the Minister of Transport. In 1994 it was privatized into a joint-stock corporation with some government ownership. In 2006 it became a private limited liability company.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306014", "title": "University of Toronto Space Design Contest", "text": "University of Toronto Space Design Contest\n\nThe University of Toronto Space Design Contest, or \"UTSDC\" is an annual contest for high school students founded in 2003. Teams work together to develop a solution for a design challenge, set every year. The contest was founded to promote awareness of space exploration and development, as well as to excite students about new, creative applications of science, technology and engineering. The contest runs year long and ends in a \"Design Fair and Conference\" held on the University of Toronto's St. George Campus in mid May.\n\nThe inaugural UTSDC 2004-2005 had 30 teams signing up, most of these teams are based in Toronto, some teams in other regions of Ontario. However, only 15 of these teams official participated in the contest and the Design Fair and Conference.\n\nThe Space Design contest continues to grow, attracting participants from a wider geographic area, such as Waterloo, Ottawa, Florida and recently India.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306015", "title": "Cathedral of St. Joseph (Hartford, Connecticut)", "text": "Cathedral of St. Joseph (Hartford, Connecticut)\n\nThe Cathedral of St. Joseph in Hartford, Connecticut, United States, is the mother church and seat of the Archdiocese of Hartford. Dedicated on May 15, 1962, it stands on the site of the old cathedral which had been destroyed in a fire. The cathedral is located on Farmington Avenue just outside downtown Hartford across from the Aetna building. In 1979 the cathedral was included as a contributing property in the Asylum Avenue District, listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nPope Gregory XVI established the states of Connecticut and Rhode Island as the Diocese of Hartford in 1843. Because Providence, Rhode Island had a larger Catholic population, Bishop William Tyler chose to reside there instead of Hartford. His two successors did likewise. Bishop Francis McFarland petitioned to have the diocese divided. After the Diocese of Providence was established in 1872, McFarland moved to Hartford where he bought the old Morgan estate for $75,000 for a cathedral, bishop's residence, and a motherhouse for the Sisters of Mercy. The convent was built first and the chapel was used as a pro-cathedral. \n\nBrooklyn, New York architect Patrick Keely was hired to design the cathedral. Bishop Thomas Galberry, O.S.A., McFarland's successor, laid the cornerstone on April 29, 1877. The basement was dedicated for church use the following year. After Bishop Lawrence McMahon liquidated the diocese's debt he was able to complete the original St. Joseph's Cathedral, which was consecrated on May 8, 1892. The Gothic Revival structure was cruciform in shape and its exterior was clad in Portland rough brownstone. Two towers that rose flanked the main facade. The interior featured an inlaid ceiling with wood from every country in the world, a rotunda with $100,000 worth of gold leaf, a bishop’s throne that was carved oak, a marble high altar, and 72 stained glass windows. It was decorated with paintings and statues. Soil conditions necessitated renovations in 1938-1939 to stabilize the building. A fire destroyed the cathedral on December 31, 1956. Its cause was never determined. Structural engineers determined that the building could not be salvaged and the site was cleared.\n\nThe New York City architectural firm of Eggers & Higgins was chosen to design the present cathedral. On September 8, 1958, Archbishop Henry O'Brien presided over the formal groundbreaking. During construction, Sunday Masses were held in the auditorium of the Aetna Life Insurance Company building across the street and daily Masses were held in the school auditorium. Auxiliary Bishop John Hackett blessed the lower church on Christmas Eve 1960, and Archbishop O'Brien celebrated the first Mass later that night. Hackett laid the cornerstone for the cathedral on October 3, 1961, while the archbishop consecrated the bells for the carillon in 1961 and blessed the cross for the tower in 1962. Bishop Hackett consecrated the completed cathedral on May 15, 1962. It was built for about $10 million.\n\nAn addition that includes a new entrance off Asylum Avenue, an elevator, and restrooms was completed in 2016. Two years later the exterior was cleaned and repaired as the limestone was starting to deteriorate. Other projects that are planned as a part of the “Forward With Faith” capital campaign include repairing the front plaza; creation of Cathedral Square that includes a pedestrian mall, park, and public gardens; and renovating the lower level of the cathedral into educational and community meeting facilities, a dining area, and a mausoleum.\n\nThe cathedral was designed using an International style interpretation of the Gothic style, and maintained the verticality of the old cathedral. The structure is composed of reinforced concrete covered with smooth light gray coursed limestone. A large frieze over the main entrance features the church's patron, Saint Joseph. The tall bronze doors weigh five and a half tons and are covered with biblical scenes. The cathedral rises to a height of . The blocks of stone used in the tall spire contrasts with the smooth stone of the walls. The \"blocks are cut in a pattern of voids that causes a constant play of light and shadow.\" The bell chamber contains 12 bells cast in the Netherlands by Petit & Fritsen. They range in weight from up to . \n\nThe interior of the cathedral is noted for its large expanse of spectacular stained glass windows crafted in Paris. They are reminiscent of those found in Paris' Sainte-Chapelle. Each panel is roughly and they are thick. The ceramic tile mural behind the altar depicting \"Christ in Glory\" is the largest in the world. The narthex is separated from the main nave by a wall of glass etched by Giovanni Hajnal. It depicts the Kingdom of Christ both on earth and in heaven. The capacity of the cathedral is about 1,750 people not including the two side chapels.\n\nThere are two main chapels on the side of the church. One contains the tabernacle and altar. It contains a mural of Jesus and his disciples. The chapel on the left has a mural depicting the Holy Family and contains the baptismal font. Other small chapels are made of mosaic and contain kneelers for visitors.\n\nThe pipe organ is the largest in Connecticut. The organ in the rear gallery was designed by the Austin Organ Company, which is based in Hartford. It has four manuals and includes six divisions, 81 stops, 95 registers, 114 ranks, and 6,878 pipes. The pipe organ in the Blessed Sacrament Chapel was also built by the Austin Organ Company, and it features three manuals, three divisions, 17 stops, 22 registers, 19 ranks, and 1,195 pipes. The organ has been used for many concerts.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306030", "title": "Kunnamkulam", "text": "Kunnamkulam\n\nKunnamkulam is a municipal town situated in the Thrissur District of Kerala in India, spread over an area of 34.18 km. It is an old commercial town, with an ancient history, famous for its printing and book binding industry. It is the chief centre of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Christians in the Kerala state. In the past, the town was called Kunnankulangara and references can be seen many British Archives about a neat and prosperous town which was predominantly Christian. Over the years Kunnamkulam has become a meeting point for all religions.\n\nThe word Kunnamkulam can be derived from the Malayalam words \"കുന്ന്\" (mountain) and \"കുളം\" (ponds). There are several small hills in this area Aduputty, Cherukunnu, Kizhoor, Kakkad Mission Kunnu, etc. interspersed with the numerous ponds of the area Eeenjakulam, Ayyankulam, Madurakulam, Chattukulam, etc.\n\nThe history of Kunnamkulam turns back to the Paleolithic age. Kakkad cave and Chowannur cave support this fact. It is said that this place was part of 'Mahodaya Pattanam' and was known as 'Kunnamkulangare'.\n\nTraditionally it is believed that a cross was installed by Thomas the Apostle, at Chattukulangara (a part of Arthat in Kunnamkulam). During the invasion of Tippu Sultan in 1789, the Christians from Chattakulangara migrated to Kunnamkulam town after the invitation from Thalapilli Rajas. The Thalapilli Rajas provided residences and places of workship.\n\nMost of the oldest and wealthiest Christian families are to be found in Kunnamkulam. Kollannoor, Panakkal, Paramel, Pulikottil, Thengungal, Cheeran, Moolapath, Tholath and Kakkassery were prominent among them. The ascendancy competition between these wealthy families, its contexture to literary activities opened new dimensions in the development of printing. Panakkal Chakku, Cheru, Thengungal Ittoop, Varu and Koothur Paramel Iyyu Uttoop were arbitrators of some of these families. It is said that the Christian families were settled earlier at Chattukulangare shifted to Kunnamkulam after the invasion of Tippu in 1789. They were invited by the Thalappilli Rajas, provided residences and places of worship. They resided on both sides of the street. This may have helped to avoid threat from Tippu against Thalappilli Rajas. Those settled on both sides of the street started trade and business, began a new era of transaction. \n\nKunnamkulam Municipal area was the headquarters of Talappilly taluk up to AD1860.\n\nKunnamkulam is located at . It has an average elevation of 57 metres (187 feet). It is around 23 km from Thrissur City and 10 km from Guruvayur. It is located on the route connecting Thrissur, Kochi to North Kerala.\n\nKunnamkulam, as the word connotes is the land of hills and ponds. The hills, 'Adupputty', 'Kizhoor' and 'Kakkad' lies in the borders and the ponds 'Enjhankulam', 'Ayyamkulam', and 'Madhurakulam' are in the middle. Manakulam, Cheralayam and Kakkad, the suburbs of Kunnamkulam were the seats of the Nambidis of Manakulam, Ayinikur and Kakkad Karanavappad respectively. They were collectively known as Thalappilli Rajas and belonged to three branches of the same dynasty.\n\nThe Kunnamkulam Municipality was formed as an IVth grade Municipality in the year 1948. The Municipality had an area of 6.96 km and is divided into 31 electoral wards. In 2000, it was further upgraded to a Grade-II Municipality by merging adjoining panchayats of Arthat (full) and panchayats of Porkulam and Chowwannur (parts). The original area of the municipality was 7 km which is now increased to 34.18 km. Earlier, there were only 16 municipal wards. The municipality extended its area in 2001 and now has 31 wards. The Total population then was 51,585 of which 24,396 were males and 27,189 females, with the density of population being 2,824 per km. Kunnamkulam assembly constituency is part of Alathoor (Lok Sabha Constituency). Earlier, it was part of the Ottapalam Constituency.\n\nKadavallur, Chowannur and Arthat, the nearby places of Kunnamkulam had a rich cultural background. Kadavallur is well known throughout this coast as being the place where Nambudiris of the Thrissur and Tirunavaya Yogams compete for superiority in Vedic proficiency. In Chowannur, there was a Sabha Madom, an endowed college where Sanskrit education was given. Arthat was the chief center of Orthodox Christians. The Arthat St. Mary's Cathedral Church(Arthat Valliyapally) is the main church in the town. All these contributed a cultural rising up in the area which later on helped the development of the publishing industry. These published books were sold during Guruvayur Ekadasi. When the temple was open to all Hindus and a good amount of trade taken place at that time.\n\nA particular residential replica \"line houses\" (angadi pura (veeducal)), is seen in Kunnamkulam area. The streets of these houses are exceedingly narrow. The \"Line Houses\" are built in 3–5 cents of land on both sides of the street. The front room of the house functions as a shop while the rear room was used for residential purposes. There used to be rear yards for every so called \"Angadi pura\" (town house) which was used for processing of their agricultural products.\n\nKunnamkulam is famous for its religious harmony as Hindus, Christians and Muslims live here. The religious tolerance of Kunnamkulam people can be seen from the “Ambala Palli’(located at south Bazar) which is temple converted to a church where in, the temple character can be seen in the church entrance.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306036", "title": "Pedro Rosa Nales", "text": "Pedro Rosa Nales\n\nPedro Rosa Nales (born July 12, 1954) is a Puerto Rican journalist and a recognized martial artist. Born in Fajardo, Puerto Rico, he started working at radio station WMDD at Fajardo when he was just 13. As a journalist he has received over 20 awards.\n\nHe served in the United States Army as a parachutist from the 82nd Airborne Division, in the 7th Special Forces Group (Green Berets) and the 101st Airborne (Air Assault) Division. He was Press officer, Executive officer, Radio and TV officer and Unit commander in the Puerto Rico National Guard. He graduated with the rank of captain.\n\nAs a television journalist, he was recruited by the WAPA-TV channel 4 of San Juan, Puerto Rico in 1981, becoming the first black Puerto Rican to work as a TV reporter.During his 32 years as a TV journalist, he had won more than 100 awards from several organizations in Puerto Rico and the United States, including awards for the coverage of hurricanes and investigative reports like Red Alert 1 and 2, in which he uncovered the military use of the Vieques island and the effects of army maneuvers on the population. He also uncovered an incident of a nuclear bomb falling in waters near the island in 1966, which the USA government had kept secret for 34 years. He is the only reporter who ever reached the remains of the plane crash, where baseball star, Roberto Clemente, died at 180 ft under the Atlantic Ocean around the beaches of San Juan.\n\nIn the past years, he has worked as a host (Anchor) on various editions of \"Noticentro 4\" on WAPA TV and in 2014 on \"Noticentro America\" for viewers in the United States. In 2017, he anchored the 5 p.m. news hour for Noticentro. In 2018, (Noticentro In the Morning) celebrated eighteen years on air.\n\nWhen memes of Rosa Nales, in martial arts poses, were discovered on the net, he gladly shared with the public that he has practiced martial arts all his life, for over 47 years.\n\nRosa Nales married young, and his wife had a daughter when he was just seventeen years old. They divorced while he was in the army. He has two children but in 2012, Rosa Nales 32-year-old daughter, who had fought addiction with the help of , died of a possible overdose.\n"}
{"id": "2306050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306050", "title": "Hannah Stockbauer", "text": "Hannah Stockbauer\n\nHannah Stockbauer (born 7 January 1982) is a World Champion, Olympic and national-record holding swimmer from Germany. In 2003, she was named the female World Swimmer of the Year by \"Swimming World Magazine\", following her winning the 400, 800 and 1500 freestyles at the 2003 World Championships.\n\nShe swam for Germany at the:\n\nAt the 2001 World Championships, she won the 800 and 1500 frees.\n\nAt the 2003 World Championships, she was named Female Swimmer of the Meet, after she won 3 events (400, 800 and 1500 frees), setting meet records in the 800 and 1500 (8:23.66 and 16:00.18) and the German Record in the 1500.\n\nAt the 2004 Olympics, she was part of the Germany relay that won a bronze medal in the 4×200m Free Relay.\n\nShe retired from competition in October 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306051", "title": "Welsh Development Agency", "text": "Welsh Development Agency\n\nWelsh Development Agency (WDA; ) was an executive agency (or QUANGO) and later designated an Assembly Sponsored Public Body (ASPB). Established in 1976, it was tasked with rescuing the ailing Welsh economy by encouraging business development and investment in Wales, clearing derelict land and encouraging growth of local businesses. In April 2006 the WDA was abolished and its functions were transferred into the Welsh Government.\n\nThe WDA was established under the Welsh Development Agency Act 1975 under the then Secretary of State for Wales John Morris MP for Aberavon. The WDA had four objectives:\n\n\nThe organisation worked to secure entrepreneurial growth in Wales by increasing the number of startup businesses and by persuading multinational companies to relocate or open subsidiary facilities in Wales. Finance Wales is a public limited company set up by the WDA and still providing funding to Welsh businesses.\n\nEmploying several hundred workers, the WDA was argued to be one of Wales's most important institutions with a network of offices worldwide and their headquarters in the former Bank of Wales building in Cardiff. In its 30-year history the WDA reports claim credit for helping to create hundreds of thousands of jobs and securing billions of pounds in investment. It even enjoyed the praise of then Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, who claimed it was doing a marvelous job. The WDA had an annual budget of approximately £70 million per year.\n\nAfter some governance issues were brought to light in the early 1990s (see \"\"Controversy\"\" below), the Government appointed David Rowe-Beddoe (later Lord Rowe-Beddoe) as Chairman in 1993. Rowe-Beddoe appointed an inquiry led by Sir John Caines in late 1993, which led to new executives being appointed. The changes included new Legal Director and new Agency Secretary in 1994 who attended Public Accounts Committees and worked with the National Audit Office and the Welsh Office under Sir Michael Scholar CB in 1994–96, creating an agency which conformed with the Nolan Principles and was the first UK QUANGO to have a Code of Practice. The Agency reported to John Redwood, David Hunt and William Hague as Secretaries of State for Wales under the Thatcher and Major governments.\n\nThe Agency regained its spot as a lead inward investment and job creation agency in the late 1990s in the UK. It was credited with having brought in, secured and safeguarded investment with major companies such as Ford, Bosch, Panasonic, Sony, Hoover, TRW, Anglesey Aluminium, Toyota, British Airways, TRW and General Electric. It gained prominence in bringing in financial services companies such as Legal & General and Lloyds Bank into Wales and later on key back office call centres came into Wales.\n\nWith South Glamorgan County Council, the WDA helped establish Admiral Insurance plc, which is now a FTSE 100 Company.\n\nThe WDA contributed to the building of the Millennium Stadium and the walk way for the 1999 Rugby World Cup and the Millennium Centre. It assisted in the establishment of the National Botanic Garden for Wales and the Llanelli Coastal Path. It removed contaminated land and reclaimed and removed coal tips in South Wales through the world leader in the field, Gwyn Griffiths OBE. Success included partnerships with newly created 22 local authorities in the mid 1990s on urban regeneration and Town Improvement Grants. It worked in the EU with an Office in Brussels namely the Wales European Centre ensuring it gained European funding with the Welsh Office.\n\nIt led the successful bid with Sir Terry Matthews for the Ryder Cup at Celtic Manor Resort, which was being built at the time near Newport. It also established Finance Wales plc.\n\nOther public bodies, including the Development Board for Rural Wales, the Land Authority for Wales, Technical Enterprise Councils and the Cardiff Bay Development Corporation, were merged into WDA by the Government of Wales Act 1998.\n\nThe WDA ceased to exist on 1 April 2006, when it and two other ASPBs - the Wales Tourist Board and ELWa - were merged into the Welsh Government. The current Welsh Government Cabinet Secretary for Economy, Infrastructure and Skills is Ken Skates AM, although Ieuan W Jones was the Minister for the Economy and Transport at the time of the merger.\n\nThe Swansea AM Andrew Davies made the decision to abolish the WDA in conjunction with the First Minister of Wales Rhodri Morgan.\n\nIn the early 1990s the WDA attracted controversy when its chairman, Gwyn Jones, a businessman, was appointed by the then Welsh Secretary, Peter Walker after meeting him at a Conservative Party fundraising lunch. He later resigned from the post ahead of a 1992 Commons Public Accounts Committee report that condemned the agency for:\n\n\nThe Commons Public Accounts committee became concerned when the Auditor General, Sir John Bourn, discovered many irregularities during his annual examination of the Agency's accounts.\n\nCriticism also followed the appointments of Neil Carignan and Neil Smith by Gwyn Jones. Carignan's employment was terminated over his poor performance, but he was allowed to take £53,000 of office equipment with him. Smith was hired as a marketing director, but the WDA failed to check his CV, which was fraudulent, and that he was a discharged bankrupt. Smith was later investigated by police over his hiring of models for claimed promotional work, and he was later convicted of theft and deception and went to prison.\n\nThe WDA was abolished in difficult circumstances in a statement at the National Assembly which took Assembly Members by surprise. The Agency had appointed Graham Hawker as CEO who was in the middle of a reorganisation at the time reversing the regional offices created in 1995 to centralised offices without consultation with the Minister. Hawker resigned in controversial circumstances after the abolition announcement without informing the Minister Andrew Davies AM and the Chair Sir Roger Jones at an Economic Development Committee of the Assembly chaired by Alun Cairns then AM now an MP for the Vale of Glamorgan, this was unprecedented. Hawker was the CEO of Welsh Water PLC prior to his controversial appointment as the WDA CEO . Welsh Water PLC had to be rescued by the new Dwr Cymru mutual led by Lord Byrnes.\n\nIn February 2012, a report of the House of Commons Welsh Affairs Committee argued that the abolition of the Welsh Development Agency had reduced Welsh visibility in the global marketplace. The committee claimed that, five years on, the WDA remained one of the most recognisable Welsh brands and argued that the establishment of a successor trade promotion agency should be a priority for the Welsh Government. The report also argued for greater engagement by the Welsh Government with parliament on the issue.\n\nThe Committee's report received a mixed response in the Senedd. Conservative AMs tabled a motion endorsing a statement by Professor Brian Morgan that \"the closure of the WDA and the abolition of the 'WDA brand' will probably go down in history as the worst policy decision made in Wales in living memory\". In response, Business Minister Edwina Hart accused those holding such views as \"wanting to revisit the past\".\n\nA highly critical report of Inward Investment attraction was also published by Cardiff Business School in 2012. The report \"Selling Wales\" was an assessment of the agencies involved and argued that the lack of a consistent brand was one of the most significant problems.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306053", "title": "Bart Sells His Soul", "text": "Bart Sells His Soul\n\n\"Bart Sells His Soul\" is the fourth episode of \"The Simpsons\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> seventh season. It first aired on the Fox network in the United States on October 8, 1995. In the episode, Bart — while being punished for playing a prank at church — declares that there is no such thing as a soul; to prove it he sells his to Milhouse for $5. After several strange events make him think he really has lost his soul, Bart desperately tries to get it back.\n\n\"Bart Sells His Soul\" was written by Greg Daniels, who was inspired by an experience from his youth where he had purchased a bully's soul. Director Wesley Archer and his team of animators visited Chili's for examples to use in Moe's family restaurant. The episode includes cultural references to the song \"In-A-Gadda-Da-Vida\", by Iron Butterfly, Chilean poet Pablo Neruda, and a parody of the book \"Are You There God? It's Me, Margaret.\", by Judy Blume.\n\nWriters from the fields of religion, philosophy, popular culture, and psychology cited the episode in books discussing \"The Simpsons\" and the show's approach to the nature of the soul. \n\nThe episode was positively received by the media, and is regarded as one of the series' best. The creative team of \"The Simpsons\" puts the episode among the top five best episodes of the series, and series creator Matt Groening cited \"Bart Sells His Soul\" as one of his favorite episodes. It has been used by secondary schools in religious education courses as a teaching tool.\n\nAs punishment for changing the church's opening hymn to \"In the Garden of Eden\" by I. Ron Butterfly, Reverend Lovejoy makes Bart clean the organ pipes; Milhouse is forced to help for snitching on Bart. After proclaiming there is no such thing as a soul, Bart agrees to sell his to Milhouse for $5 on a piece of paper which reads \"Bart Simpson's soul\". Lisa warns Bart that he will regret selling his soul, but he dismisses her fears.\n\nBart begins to suspect he really did lose his soul after experiencing unusual phenomena. He tries to get his soul back from Milhouse, who refuses to return it for less than $50. After having a nightmare and being taunted by Lisa, Bart again desperately tries to persuade Milhouse to return his soul. Milhouse informs Bart that he traded the paper to Comic Book Guy at the Android's Dungeon.\n\nThe next morning, Comic Book Guy tells Bart that he sold the piece of paper but refuses to reveal its new owner. Saddened, Bart walks home in the rain and prays to God for his soul in his bedroom. When a piece of paper with the words \"Bart Simpson's soul\" floats down from above, Bart discovers that Lisa bought his soul to return it to him. While she explains philosophers' views on the human soul, Bart eats the piece of paper, overjoyed at getting his soul back.\n\nIn the subplot, Moe tries to expand his customer base by turning his bar into a family theme restaurant. The stress of running the business by himself ultimately unnerves him, and he soon snaps at a little girl. The horrified customers abandon the restaurant, forcing Moe's to revert to a run-down tavern.\n\n\"Bart Sells His Soul\" was the second episode to have Bill Oakley and Josh Weinstein as executive producers. Oakley and Weinstein wanted to start the season with episodes that had an emotional bias in an effort to center the Simpson family. The episode was written by Greg Daniels, who originally had an idea for a plot that dealt with racism in Springfield. The writers did not think \"The Simpsons\" was the right forum for it, so Daniels suggested the idea of selling someone's soul, which originated in his childhood. In high school, Daniels encouraged a bully to sell him his soul for 50 cents, and then convinced classmates to frighten the bully into buying his soul back for an inflated price. Daniels repeated this ploy, but stopped when he realized that the only other person in history who has profited off others' souls was Satan, and that \"scared\" him. In the opening scene of the episode, the congregation of the First Church of Springfield are tricked into singing \"In a Gadda Da Vida\" by Iron Butterfly. Daniels had originally intended for the song to be \"Jesus He Knows Me\" by British rock band Genesis, but the producers were unable to obtain the rights for it to be featured in the episode. In reality, the Iron Butterfly song was intended to be titled \"In The Garden Of Eden\", but their singer was too drunk/high at the recording session to pronounce the words, so he simply sang it phonetically. This bit of music history is how Bart was able to put one over on the clueless Rev. Lovejoy.\n\nThe episode was directed by Wesley Archer. Archer and his team of animators went to the restaurant chain Chili's to get inspiration for the background designs of Moe's family restaurant. He said it was \"quite a task\" to transform Moe's Tavern into a family-oriented establishment. Archer added that he was not \"quite happy\" with the result, and that they could have designed it \"a little better\". Weinstein recalled that there was contention between the animators about the way Moe looked in the episode. Moe's original design includes a missing tooth, but Weinstein and Oakley felt that it did not \"look right\" because Moe was such a prominent character in the episode. Archer showed the original design of Moe from the first season to the show runners, and said: \"Here, look. He's got a missing tooth!\", but the scenes that had Moe with a missing tooth in them were still reanimated. Archer was disappointed with the dream sequence in which Bart sees his friends playing with their souls. Archer said that he had forgotten to tell the animators to make the souls transparent, so they were painted blue instead. George Meyer pitched the joke restaurant title \"The Texas Cheesecake Depository.\"\n\nKurt M. Koenigsberger comments in \"Leaving Springfield\" that \"a good deal of enjoyment\" is to be had from the episode, due to \"the exposure of the hypocrisy behind 'the finance of salvation' and the ambivalent operations of the commercial world\". Don Cupitt, a fellow of Emmanuel College, Cambridge, believes that when Lisa lectures Bart about the soul, she \"shows a degree of theological sophistication which is simply not tolerated in Britain.\" Paul Bloom and David Pizarro wrote in \"The Psychology of The Simpsons\" that although Lisa does show \"healthy religious skepticism\" she still believes in an eternal soul. However, Lisa tells Bart at the end of the episode, \"some philosophers believe that no one is born with a soul, you have to earn one through suffering\". Bloom and Pizarro acknowledge: \"Indeed, some philosophers and theologians say that without belief in a soul, one cannot make sense of the social concepts on which we rely, such as personal responsibility and freedom of the will.\"\n\nM. Keith Booker cites the episode in \"Drawn to Television\", while discussing \"The Simpsons\" treatment of religion. Booker cites a scene from the episode where Milhouse asks Bart what religions have to gain by lying about concepts such as the existence of a soul – and then the scene cuts to Reverend Lovejoy counting his money; Booker believes that this implies that religions create mythologies so that they can gain money from followers. He juxtaposes this with Bart's realization later in the episode that \"life suddenly feels empty and incomplete\" without a soul, which suggests \"either that the soul is real or it is at least a useful fiction\". Mark I. Pinsky and Samuel F. Parvin discuss the episode in their book \"The Gospel According to the Simpsons: Leader's Guide for Group Study\", and use examples from it to stimulate discussion among youth about the nature of the soul. Pinsky and Parvin note Bart's statement to Milhouse from the beginning of the episode: \"Soul — come on, Milhouse, there's no such thing as a soul. It's just something they made up to scare kids, like the Boogie Man or Michael Jackson\", and then suggest questions to ask students, including whether they know individuals that agree with Bart, and their views on the existence of a soul.\n\nIn \"Planet Simpson\", Chris Turner quotes Bart's revelation to Lisa that he sold his soul to Milhouse for five dollars and used the money to buy sponges shaped like dinosaurs. After Lisa criticizes Bart for selling his soul, Bart responds: \"Poor gullible Lisa. I'll keep my crappy sponges, thanks.\" Turner comments: \"Here Bart is the epitome of the world-weary hipster, using the degraded language of modern marketing to sell off the most sacred parts of himself because he knows that some cheap sponge is more real, hence more valuable, than even the loftiest of abstract principles.\"\n\nOn the DVD audio commentary for the episode, writer Greg Daniels cited Martin Scorsese's 1985 film \"After Hours\" as an influence on Bart's night-time trek to retrieve his soul from Milhouse, only to experience a series of unusual encounters. Reverend Lovejoy leads his congregation in a hymnal version of the song \"In-A-Gadda-Da-Vida\", by Iron Butterfly, titled \"In the Garden of Eden\", by \"I. Ron Butterfly\".\n\nDuring an argument between Lisa and Bart, while discussing the relationship between laughter and the soul, Lisa quotes Chilean poet Pablo Neruda, and Bart responds \"I am \"familiar\" with the works of Pablo Neruda.\" Kurt M. Koenigsberger comments in \"Leaving Springfield\": \"While Bart may be familiar with the canon of Chilean poetry, the joke takes its force in part from the probability that \"The Simpsons\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> viewers are not.\" Bart begins a prayer to God with \"Are you there, God? It's me, Bart Simpson\". This is an allusion to the book \"Are You There God? It's Me, Margaret.\", by Judy Blume. \nThe chalkboard gag is a reference to the advertising slogan of the lean mean grilling machine by George Foreman. \nThe title of the \"Itchy and Scratchy Show\" episode “Skinless in Seattle” is a reference to the film \"Sleepless in Seattle\".\n\nIn its original broadcast, \"Bart Sells His Soul\" finished 43rd in the ratings for the week of October 2–8, 1995, with a Nielsen rating of 8.8, equivalent to approximately 8.4 million viewing households. It was the fourth highest-rated show on the Fox network that week after \"The X-Files\", \"Melrose Place\", and \"Beverly Hills, 90210\".\n\nIn July 2007, an article in the \"San Mateo County Times\" notes that \"Bart Sells His Soul\" is seen as one of \"the most popular episodes in 'Simpsons' history\". Noel Holston of the \"Star Tribune\" highlighted the episode in the paper's \"Critic's choice\" section. The \"Intelligencer Journal\" described \"Bart Sells His Soul\" as \"a particularly good episode\" of \"The Simpsons\". The \"Lansing State Journal\" highlighted the episode in the season seven DVD release, along with the conclusion of \"Who Shot Mr. Burns?\" and \"The Simpsons 138th Episode Spectacular\". The \"Sunday Herald Sun\" called it one of the \"show's most memorable episodes\", as did \"The Courier Mail\".\n\nThe \"Aberdeen Press & Journal\" described the episode as \"one of the darkest episodes of the Simpsons\". \n\nIn their section on the episode in the book \"I Can't Believe It's a Bigger and Better Updated Unofficial Simpsons Guide\", Warren Martyn and Adrian Wood comment: \"Undoubtedly the most disturbing episode of the series, with Bart's nightmare of losing his soul — illustrated by a macabre playground where all the souls of his playmates are visible, and his is tagging along with Milhouse — more frightening than funny. ... An illustration of just how far the series could go by this point.\"\n\nIn April 2003, the episode was listed by \"The Simpsons\" creative team as among the top five best episodes of the series, including \"Last Exit to Springfield\", \"Cape Feare\", \"22 Short Films About Springfield\", and \"Homer at the Bat\". \n\nIn a 2005 interview \"The Simpsons\" creator Matt Groening commented \"I don't have a single favorite. There's a bunch I really like\", but cited \"Bart Sells His Soul\" and \"Homer's Enemy\" as among episodes he loves. \n\nBart's voice actress Nancy Cartwright stated \"Bart Sells His Soul\" is one of her top three episodes together with \"Lisa's Substitute\" and \"Bart the Mother\". Lisa's voice actress Yeardley Smith stated in an interview that \"Bart Sells His Soul\" is one of her favorite episodes along with \"Girly Edition\".\n\nThe episode has been used in church courses in Connecticut and in the United Kingdom about the nature of a soul, and was shown by a minister in Scotland in one of his sermons. A 2005 report on religious education in secondary schools, by the United Kingdom education regulator Office for Standards in Education, Children's Services and Skills (Ofsted), noted that the episode was being used as a teaching tool.\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "2306058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306058", "title": "Seberang Perai", "text": "Seberang Perai\n\nSeberang Perai is a city in the Malaysian state of Penang. It is situated on the Malay Peninsula opposite Penang Island, bordering Kedah to the north and east and Perak to the south. Its city centre is located in Butterworth, while its local authority, the Seberang Perai City Council, is centred near Bukit Mertajam. , Seberang Perai had a population of 815,767, making it the second most populous city in Malaysia.\n\nOriginally a part of Kedah, the hinterland was ceded to the British East India Company towards the end of the 18th century. Named after a British officer, Province Wellesley was acquired to provide more agricultural land and as a defensive bulwark against any cross-strait invasion from the mainland. Since then, it has become part of Penang, which was made a British crown colony in 1867.\n\nSeberang Perai has witnessed substantial economic development in the decades after Malaya's independence. Massive industrial estates have been established within Seberang Perai, while the relocation of the Port of Penang's core operations to Butterworth in 1974 has also boosted the city's economy. Improvements in connectivity and transportation were facilitated by several major projects, such as the constructions of the North–South Expressway, the Penang Bridge and the Second Penang Bridge. Today, Seberang Perai forms part of Greater Penang, the second largest conurbation in Malaysia.\n\nSeberang Perai was originally named Province Wellesley after Richard Wellesley, 1st Marquess Wellesley, who served as the Governor of Madras and Governor-General of Bengal between 1797 and 1805.\n\nThe term 'Seberang Perai' was believed to be derived from a local phrase used to refer to the northern banks of the Perai River. The name of Perai originated from the Thai word, \"plāi\" (), which meant the end. When \"Province Wellesley\" was acquired by the British East India Company in 1800, the Perai River served as the original boundary between British \"Province Wellesley\" and the Siamese-influenced Kedah to the north. Hence, the locals called the northern banks of the river Seberang Perai, in reference to the Siamese territory across the river.\n\nEarliest records of the history of Seberang Perai can be traced back to the prehistoric times with evidence of human settlement in Guar Kepah to the south of the Muda River about 5,000 to 6,000 years ago. Seberang Perai is located between two main important archaeological sites, Bujang Valley and Sungai Selinsing. Human remains, seashells and other artefacts have been found at the site, indicating the settlement of the area by nomadic Melanesians from the Pacific during the Neolithic era.\n\nSeberang Perai was also part of the Bujang Valley civilisation. The Cherok Tok Kun megalith in Bukit Mertajam, discovered in 1845, contains Pali inscriptions, implying that an early Hindu-Buddhist political entity in what is now Kedah had established control over parts of Seberang Perai sometime between the 5th and 6th centuries.\n\nHenceforth, for much of Seberang Perai's history, the area formed part of Kedah. It was only with the advent of British colonialism in the 18th century that the modern history of Seberang Perai would begin.\n\nIn 1786, Francis Light of the British East India Company had landed on Penang Island, which at the time was also part of Kedah. After brokering an agreement with the then Sultan of Kedah, Sultan Abdullah Mukarram Shah, regarding the cession of Penang Island to the British East India Company, Light returned to the island on 11 August that year and claimed it \"\"in the name of His Britannic Majesty, King George III\"\".\n\nHowever, the British East India Company was slow to realise the importance of the hinterland across the Penang Strait from Penang Island (then named the \"Prince of Wales Island\"). Merchant vessels traversing the Penang Strait were often threatened by pirates originating from the Perai River. In addition, Kedah was being invaded by Siam and Sultan Abdullah, disgruntled by the lack of military aid as promised by Light, assembled his army in Seberang Perai in 1790 to retake the \"Prince of Wales Island\". The planned amphibious assault was thwarted by the British East India Company, which launched night attacks on Kedah's forts.\n\nIn 1800, the first Lieutenant-Governor of the \"Prince of Wales Island\", Sir George Leith, gained a strip of Seberang Perai from Sultan Abdullah and renamed it \"Province Wellesley\". The newly acquired land covered an area south of the Perai River. Thus, at that point, the Perai River became the international border between the British-controlled \"Province Wellesley\" and Kedah. At the time, \"Province Wellesley\" was heavily forested and sparsely populated, with a total population of only 5,000.\n\n\"Province Wellesley\" was subsequently expanded thrice. Following the Siamese conquest of Kedah in 1821, the British and the Siamese agreed in 1831 to demarcate the southernmost Siamese border with \"Province Wellesley\" along the Muda River; the British in effect enlarged \"Province Wellesley\" to include the area between the Muda River to the north and the Perai River to the south. Province Wellesley's eastern boundaries with Siam was also delineated following another treaty in 1859. The final change to Penang's boundaries was made in 1874 following the Pangkor Treaty between the British Empire and Perak, which included a clause on the demarcation of the \"Province Wellesley\"-Perak border south of the Kerian River. Penang's borders have remained unchanged since then.\n\nEver since the British acquisition of Province Wellesley in 1800, the strip of hinterland has been part of the Settlement (and now the State) of Penang. The acquisition of Province Wellesley gave the British East India Company full control of the Penang Strait, as well as an agricultural hinterland and a buffer zone to protect the \"Prince of Wales Island\" from any cross-strait military invasion. it also allowed the British to suppress the pirates at the mouth of the Perai River.\n\nIn 1826, both \"Province Wellesley\" and the \"Prince of Wales Island\", along with Singapore and Malacca, were amalgamated into the Straits Settlements, with George Town on the island made as the capital. However, the capital of the Straits Settlements was then relocated to Singapore in 1832. The Straits Settlements was later made a British crown colony under the direct governance of the Colonial Office in London in 1867. As a British crown colony, \"Province Wellesley\" was administered by a district officer directly under the Lieutenant-Governor (later Resident Councillor) of Penang, who in turn was subordinate to the Governor of the Straits Settlements based in Singapore.\n\nMeanwhile, \"Province Wellesley\" continued to witness continuing growth under the British. With its population increasing due to the influx of Malay refugees from Siamese-occupied Kedah, \"Province Wellesley\" became the rice bowl of Penang. Other than rice and vegetables, other cash crops, such as sugar, coconut and tapioca, were also cultivated in \"Province Wellesley\". Due to the abundance of land in \"Province Wellesley\", it became the only area in Penang where rubber and palm oil estates were established as well.\n\nOther than agriculture, \"Province Wellesley\" also began to serve as Penang's transportation hub, a role it continues to play to this day. Butterworth, directly opposite George Town across the Penang Strait, was developed in the mid-19th century to serve Penang's logistical needs. Ferry services were established between Butterworth and George Town towards the end of the 19th century; these became the predecessor to the present-day Rapid Ferry. When the pan-Malayan railway was extended into \"Province Wellesley\" in the 1900s, both Butterworth and Bukit Mertajam further inland also became important rail termini, leading to the construction of the Butterworth and Bukit Mertajam train stations.\n\nThe growth of Butterworth and Bukit Mertajam also convinced the British colonial authorities to establish and regulate local governments in \"Province Wellesley\". In 1913, four local boards were set up within Province Wellesley - three rural district boards for the Northern, Central and Southern districts, as well as the Butterworth Town Board. These local boards were upgraded into local councils in 1952; the Bukit Mertajam Town Council was also established in the following year.\n\nDuring the early days of the Japanese invasion of Malaya in December 1941, the Royal Air Force and the Royal Australian Air Force units stationed at RAF Butterworth struggled to counter Japanese air raids over Penang and took heavy casualties. With RAF Butterworth itself heavily damaged, these Allied units had to withdraw southwards by 15 December.\n\nThe Imperial Japanese Army subsequently invaded \"Province Wellesley\" from the north, with the 25th Army capturing RAF Butterworth on 20 December 1941. As with Penang Island, the period of Japanese occupation brought much hardship to civilians in \"Province Wellesley\"; especially notorious was the Sook Ching massacres implemented against the Chinese populace.\n\n\"Province Wellesley\" was liberated by the British in September 1945 and was placed under military administration for one year.\n\nIn 1946, the Straits Settlements was abolished, and the now separate Crown Colony of Penang was to be merged into the Malayan Union. The Malayan Union was subsequently replaced by the Federation of Malaya in 1948 and full independence was granted in 1957.\n\nAfter Malaya gained independence in 1957, \"Province Wellesley\" was renamed Seberang Perai. The Butterworth and Bukit Mertajam town councils were merged into the surrounding rural district councils in 1961, and between 1973 and 1976, the remaining three rural district councils were amalgamated into the Seberang Perai Municipal Council. On 16 September 2019, Malaysia Day, Seberang Perai became a full city of its own. Following this latest amalgamation of the local councils, all of Seberang Perai are administered under a single local government, making the Seberang Perai City Council the biggest local government in Malaysia in terms of land size.\n\nIn the decades that followed, the Penang state government opened massive industrial estates in Seberang Perai, such as in Perai, Mak Mandin, Bukit Mertajam and Nibong Tebal. In addition, the Port of Penang, which had been located in George Town, was shifted to Butterworth in 1974. The completion of the North-South Expressway, the Penang Bridge and the Second Penang Bridge by the Malaysian federal government, along with several state-built expressways such as the Butterworth Outer Ring Road, has improved connectivity between the towns in Seberang Perai and with Penang Island. \n\nThese developments have boosted the economy of Seberang Perai and led to the rapid urbanisation of the city and its townships. These have also been complemented by the growth of new residential townships, such as Seberang Jaya and Juru. In recent years, Batu Kawan, where the mainland end of the Second Penang Bridge is located, has emerged as a new growth centre, spurred by a number of major projects and millions of investment funds being poured into the town.\n\nSeberang Perai refers to the mainland portion of the State of Penang. It is physically separated from Penang Island to the west by the Penang Strait. To its north, the Muda River forms the Penang-Kedah border, while a short section of the Kerian River marks the southern boundary between Penang and Kedah. The Penang-Perak border also runs to the west of the Penang-Kedah-Perak border tripoint in the Kerian River.With a land area of , Seberang Perai is nearly 2.6 times the size of Penang Island and slightly larger than the total landmass of the Republic of Singapore. Seberang Perai is mostly flat. Its highest peak is Bukit Mertajam Hill, looming over the eponymous town of Bukit Mertajam at above sea level. The hill is considered a prominent landmark, as it can be seen from Penang Island; conversely, one can view Penang Island from its peak.\n\nThe rivers and coastline of Seberang Perai are lined with mangrove swamps. Examples of the mangrove forests include the mouth of the Perai River and the Muda River basin.\nTwo offshore islets, Aman and Gedung islands, are situated off the southern coast of Seberang Perai, within the South Seberang Perai District. Of the two islets, only Aman Island is sparsely populated.\n\nThe largest settlement of Seberang Perai is Butterworth, approximately east of George Town, Penang's capital city. Other major places in Seberang Perai include Bukit Mertajam, Perai, Nibong Tebal and Batu Kawan.\n\nThe major rivers in Seberang Perai include the Muda River, Perai River and Kerian River. Off all the rivers in Seberang Perai, the Muda River, which forms the northern border with Kedah, is arguably the most vital; Penang obtains up to 80% of its water supply from this river alone. Thus, illegal logging activities that have been carried out upstream in Kedah have periodically generated concerns about Penang's water supply.\n\nLike the rest of Malaysia, Seberang Perai has a tropical rainforest climate under the Köppen climate classification (\"Af\"), although it also borders on a tropical monsoon climate. Seberang Perai does experience slightly drier conditions between December and February of the following year. It sees on average around of precipitation annually with the lowest being in February while the highest was around between August and October.\n\nPenang's proximity to the island of Sumatra, Indonesia makes it susceptible to dust particles carried by wind from the perennial but transient forest fires, creating a yearly phenomenon known as the Southeast Asian haze. The haze season typically occurs between July and October.\n\nWeather forecasts for Seberang Perai is served by the Bayan Lepas Regional Meteorological Office on Penang Island, which acts as the primary weather forecast facility for northern Peninsular Malaysia.\n\nLocal administration of Seberang Perai is under the purview of the Seberang Perai City Council, an agency of the Penang state government. Headquartered near Bukit Mertajam, the city council is responsible for urban planning, heritage preservation, public health, sanitation, waste management, traffic management, environmental protection, building control, social and economic development, and general maintenance of urban infrastructure.\n\nThe Mayor is appointed by the Penang state government for two years, while each of the 24 councillors is appointed for a one-year term. The current President of the Seberang Perai City Council is Rozali Mohamud, who took office in 2017.\n\nSeberang Perai is also divided into three administrative districts - North, Central and South. Each district contains a lands and district office headed by a district officer. The lands and district office deals with land administration and revenue; thus it differs from the city council, which oversees the provision and maintenance of urban infrastructure.\n\nFor the unicameral Penang State Legislative Assembly, Seberang Perai is divided into 21 state constituencies, more than half of the 40 seats in the entire state. The State Assemblymen are elected into office via Penang-level election, which by convention is held simultaneously with the Malaysian General Election every five years.\n\nPenang Island is also represented by seven Members of Parliament in the Parliament of Malaysia. The Members of Parliament are elected via the Malaysian General Election, which is held every five years.\n\nThe current State Assemblymen and Members of Parliament for Seberang Perai are as listed below.\nThere are three Magistrates Courts within Seberang Perai, one each for every district. The Butterworth Magistrates Court has jurisdiction for the Northern District, the Bukit Mertajam Magistrates Court over the Central District and the Jawi Magistrates Court handles cases within the Southern District.\n\n, Seberang Perai was populated by 818,197 residents, making it the second most populous local government area in Malaysia after the federal capital city, Kuala Lumpur. This also meant that, by 2010, Seberang Perai was home to over 53.6% of Penang's population, slightly outnumbering the population of Penang Island, Malaysia's second largest city. The population of Seberang Perai was estimated to have increased to 891,300 by 2013.\n\nMost of Seberang Perai's population is concentrated within the Central District, while the Southern District is least populated. This is due to the recent urbanisation of the more industrialised Central District, which includes Perai, Bukit Mertajam, Bukit Tengah and Bukit Minyak, and the district's greater economic activity. On the other hand, the ongoing development of the Southern District, specifically around Batu Kawan, has led to its more rapid population growth rate compared to the Northern and Central districts. \n\n, ethnic Malays constituted nearly 49% of Seberang Perai's population, with most Malays being concentrated in the Northern District. The Chinese made up 34% of the population; while most reside within the Central District, the Southern District has a larger proportion of ethnic Chinese. Another 10.5% of Seberang Perai's population comprised ethnic Indians, the third largest ethnic community.\n\nHowever, in recent years, there has been an influx of foreign workers in the Central District, and as a result, the population of foreigners in this particular district has outstripped that of the Indians.\n\nWhile the economy of Seberang Perai has traditionally been driven by agriculture, since the mid-20th century, the city has become heavily industrialised. The first industrial estate was established in Mak Mandin, near Butterworth, in the 1950s under the leadership of the then Chief Minister of Penang, Wong Pow Nee. The relocation of the Port of Penang to Butterworth in 1974 and the completion of several expressways have also boosted the growth of manufacturing as one of the economic mainstays of Seberang Perai, by facilitating the ease of transportation of goods and services.\n\nThe resulting rapid urbanisation of Seberang Perai has fueled the city's housing market; in particular, the Central District has benefited the most in terms of newly-built housing units due to its greater industrial activity and the location of the Penang Bridge's terminus within the said district.\n\nIn recent years, Batu Kawan, within the Southern District, has witnessed massive transformation, with an industrial park, an international technology hub and several other mixed-development projects being planned for the town.\n\nThe main industrial zones within Seberang Perai are located in Mak Mandin, Perai, Bukit Mertajam and Nibong Tebal. There has been a higher concentration of manufacturing activities within the Central District, which encompasses Perai and Bukit Mertajam, making it the most industrialised district within Seberang Perai.\n\nIn particular, several multinational corporations and Malaysian manufacturing giants, including Honeywell Aerospace, Sony, Mattel, Pensonic, Chevron and Malayawata Steel are based in Perai, due to its proximity to the Port of Penang. Smaller industries, such as foodstuff and textiles, are concentrated in inland areas like Mak Mandin and Nibong Tebal, while Bukit Tengah near Bukit Mertajam has a significant engineering industry that includes international names like Blaupunkt and Schlumberger.\n\nThe Batu Kawan Industrial Park is another upcoming manufacturing zone, attracting multinational companies such as VAT, Bose Corporation, Boston Scientific and Robert Bosch GmbH.\n\nThe Port of Penang was relocated from George Town to Butterworth in 1974, in order to expand its container and cargo services. To date, the Port of Penang operates six cargo and container terminals around Butterworth. This has led to the manufacturing boom in Seberang Perai, as the Port of Penang has facilitated the ease of export from the factories in Perai.\n\nThe Port of Penang handled more than 1.44 million TEUs of cargo in 2016, making it the third busiest seaport in Malaysia. The Port's strategic location allowed it to service not just northern Malaysia, but also southern Thailand.\n\nIn terms of land usage, agriculture remains the dominant economic sector in Seberang Perai, with about of land being utilised for agricultural purposes in both the Northern and Southern districts. Seberang Perai has historically served as an agricultural rice bowl for Penang, as the inherent lack of land on Penang Island necessitated the choice of the mainland for plantations and paddy fields. In addition, Bukit Mertajam was once well known as a production centre for rubber, cloves and nutmegs.\n\nHowever, within the State of Penang, the agricultural sector has been declining. This sector has contributed a mere 2.2% of Penang's GDP , while only 2.7% of Penang's workforce was employed in agriculture-related occupations in the fourth quarter of that year.\n\nSeberang Perai has also witnessed a growing services sector; while the city is not as well known as Penang Island as a tourist destination of choice, it does have a developing retail scene. Eco-tourism is another sub-sector that has been recently promoted within Seberang Perai, taking advantage of the mangrove forests.\n\nMore recently, Batu Kawan has emerged as a potential growth centre for technological services and the shared services outsourcing sub-sector, with the Penang International Technology Park in the works.\nAt the time of writing, among the major shopping malls within Seberang Perai are Megamal Pinang in Perai, Sunway Carnival Mall in Seberang Jaya and The Summit Bukit Mertajam Plaza in Bukit Mertajam. , another shopping mall, GEM Mall in Butterworth, is under construction; it has been touted as the largest shopping mall in northern Malaysia.\n\nIn 2016, Design Village, Malaysia's largest outlet mall, was opened in Batu Kawan, offering various international fashion and accessory brands such as Gap, Pierre Cardin, Padini, Adidas and Levi's. Spanning a total area of , Design Village is also the first outlet mall in northern Malaysia.\n\nAnother famous component of Seberang Perai's retail sub-sector is Juru's Auto-City. An entertainment and retail precinct in Juru, it not only contains several automobile showrooms, but also a varied assortment of retail outlets, eateries and other services. Some of the international names at Juru Auto-City include Audi, Ferrari, Fiat, Porsche, Nando's, Starbucks, Secret Recipe and Subway.\n\nIn 2016, IKEA, the world's largest furniture retailer, announced that it will open a store in Batu Kawan by 2018, making it the first IKEA outlet in northern Malaysia.\n\nSince the latter half of the 20th century, several infrastructural projects have been completed in Seberang Perai, boosting the city's connectivity with Penang Island, as well as the rest of Peninsular Malaysia. Seberang Perai is connected to Penang Island via a ferry service, the Penang Bridge and the Second Penang Bridge, the latter of which is the longest bridge in Southeast Asia. The feasibility of more cross-strait links are being explored at the time of writing.\n\nMalaysia's North–South Expressway, part of Asian Highway 2, runs through Seberang Perai, as is Penang's sole section of inter-state rail track operated by the Malayan Railway.\n\nThe North-South Expressway is the main highway that runs across the more developed western Peninsular Malaysia; the expressway forms part of Asian Highway 2, as it is connected to Thailand's Phet Kasem Road at its northern end and the Singapore Causeway at its southern end. This expressway runs through Seberang Perai, thus connecting major areas, such as Butterworth, Seberang Jaya, Perai, Juru, Batu Kawan and Nibong Tebal, with other cities and towns along western Peninsular Malaysia, southern Thailand and Singapore.\n\nOther major roads and expressways within Seberang Perai include the Butterworth Outer Ring Road (BORR) and the Butterworth–Seberang Jaya Toll Road. The BORR was constructed in the 2000s to alleviate traffic congestion along the North–South Expressway, providing drivers from Butterworth with an alternative route to Perai to the south. The Prai River Bridge was also built for this purpose, traversing the Perai River that separates Butterworth and Perai. In addition, the BORR is linked to the Butterworth–Seberang Jaya Toll Road, which was completed in 2007.\n\nAside from roads and expressways, rail transportation has historically played a vital role in Seberang Perai's economy. The first railway tracks were laid in the 1900s, connecting the area with the rest of Malaya for the first time, and facilitating the transportation of agricultural and mining commodities for export via the Port of Penang. Today, about of rail track stretches within Seberang Perai as part of the Malayan Railway's West Coast Route. Out of the six train stations in Seberang Perai, the two major stations are in Butterworth and Bukit Mertajam, with the former offering services by both the Malayan Railway and the State Railway of Thailand; the Butterworth rail station is also one of the major stops of the Eastern and Oriental Express between Bangkok and Singapore. Domestically, the Malayan Railway runs the inter-state Electric Train Service along much of its West Coast Route, allowing train commuters from Penang to travel to Kuala Lumpur in as little as four hours.\n\nThe two bridges that connect Seberang Perai with Penang Island are the Penang Bridge and the Second Penang Bridge. The Penang Bridge links Perai and Gelugor, a southern suburb of Penang's capital city, George Town, and was completed in 1985. At the time of its opening, the bridge was the longest in Southeast Asia. In 2013, it was superseded by the -long Second Penang Bridge to the south, which runs between Batu Kawan and Batu Maung near the southeastern tip of Penang Island.\n\nA major transportation hub, Penang Sentral, is being constructed in Butterworth, and the first phase of the project, which consists of an inter-city bus terminal, is slated for completion in 2017. Penang Sentral is strategically located next to the Sultan Abdul Halim Ferry Terminal and the Butterworth rail station. Overall, there are eight phases of the Penang Sentral project, which aims to integrate all bus, rail and ferry services under a single mixed complex that will also incorporate commercial, residential and retail elements, akin to Kuala Lumpur Sentral.\n\nThe ground public transportation needs within Seberang Perai are currently being met by Rapid Penang, the primary public transit bus brand in Penang. At the time of writing, Rapid Penang operates 19 public transit routes within Seberang Perai, three cross-strait BEST shuttle bus services towards Penang Island, and four interstate routes towards neighbouring Kedah and Perak. Most public transit bus routes originate and terminate in Butterworth, linking it with other towns such as Perai, Bukit Mertajam, Nibong Tebal and Simpang Ampat, while other routes operate specifically within each of the three districts of Seberang Perai.\n\nOther than Rapid Penang, the only other public transit bus operator is Cityliner, which handles a handful of routes within Seberang Perai as well.\n\nCurrently the most vital harbour within northern Malaysia and one of the largest in the country, the Port of Penang now operates the following facilities around Butterworth.\nThe Port of Penang handled more than 1.44 million TEU of cargo in 2010, the third largest cargo volume amongst seaports in Malaysia. The Port's strategic location enabled it to serve not just northern Malaysia, but also southern Thailand.\n\nRapid Ferry, which links Butterworth and George Town, has been managed by Prasarana Malaysia since 2017. This cross-strait shuttle ferry service commenced operations in 1894, making it the oldest surviving ferry service in Malaysia. At present, six ferries ply the Penang Strait between the Sultan Abdul Halim Ferry Terminal in Butterworth and George Town daily.\n\n\nPublic hospitals\n\nPrivate hospitals\n\n\nThere are several higher learning institutions located in Seberang Perai but the most prominent are Universiti Sains Malaysia Engineering Campus located in Nibong Tebal; Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM) with branches in Penang and Bertam; and Politeknik Seberang Perai (PSP). Both are situated in the town of Permatang Pauh.\n\nPenang Bird Park in Seberang Jaya boasts a collection of over 300 species of birds with enormous walk-in aviaries and is the first and largest bird park of its kind in Malaysia. Popular among bird enthusiasts, the park was built in a garden landscaping concept with natural ponds and a vast collection of flora and several other wildlife including mousedeer, giant alaipaima fish, phytons and monitor lizards.\n\nA popular recreational park among locals and outsiders alike, the Bukit Mertajam Recreational Forest in Cherok Tok Kun, Bukit Mertajam is a tropical rain forest reserve sprawls over 37 hectares of hilly terrain including the Mertajam hill. The forest contains indigenous rain forest trees that could be over a hundred years old such as the Meranti Seraya (\"Shorea curtisii\") and Meranti Rambai Daun (\"Shorea acuminate\"). For the adventurous hikers, there are numerous jungle trail branching out towards the peak and also accessible by jeep and cycling. Other activities include picnicking, swimming by the waterfall and camping.\n\nA small village of Mengkuang Titi provides homestay programmes for foreign tourists which is the opportunity to live with the local Malay family while experiencing Malay culture and the laid-back lifestyle of rural living. Among the activities during the programme were fruit picking in the orchard, visiting a handicraft centre, Mengkuang-mat-weaving demonstration, a trip cottage industry factories (Malaysian Muffins),bedak sejuk (traditional beauty powder made from rice flour) and soy bean products), visiting the Mengkuang Dam vicinity and the Air Itam Dalam mangrove reserve, a cultural performance, a stroll through a rubber plantation and an oil palm plantation.\n\nBukit Tambun, a small tranquil fishing village located in the South Seberang Perai district, remains a seafood heaven for local and foreign tourists alike. It consists of seafood restaurants dotting along the river mouth with the dining area hovering over the water, serving local delicacies which are fresh daily catch from the sea.\n\nPulau Aman is an island off-coast of Bukit Tambun located at the south-east of Penang island. It consists of a quaint Malay fishing village. The island is accessible to the public via ferry boat from the Batu Musang jetty in Batu Kawan. There is an old well, Telaga Emas (Golden Well) located right next to the sea.\n\nOne of the highlights in the town of Nibong Tebal include the firefly watching along the river of Sungai Krian. This can be done late in the evening by boat as visitors can have the opportunity to enjoy the dazzling display of fireflies in the mangrove swamp.\n\nIn fact one of the major events in Seberang Perai is the St. Anne's Novena and Feast which is held end of July annually at the St. Anne's Church, Bukit Mertajam which attract nearly over 100,000 pilgrims from all over the country and as far as neighbouring countries such as the Philippines, Russia, Singapore and Australia.\n\nRecently, the North Seberang Perai Local Plan 2020 Draft have developed several heritage trails, namely the Archeo-Tourism Trail, Heritage Trail and Beach Recreation Trail. The Archeo-Tourism Trail would cover an old fort at Kota Kuala Muda, an archaeology complex in Sungai Emas, the Langkasuka ruins in Kota Aur, an early archaeology site in Guar Kepah, a candi (temple) in Permatang Pasir, the Merdeka Bridge-cum-fort in Bumbung Lima and a border cornerstone in Ekor Kucing. Besides that, The Heritage Trail would commence from the Butterworth railway station through the Sultan Abdul Halim ferry terminal, a traditional blacksmith shop in Permatang Benuan, the Capal Jago chapal maker's shop in Kepala Batas and terminates at the whispering market in the Kuala Muda fishing village. Aside from that, the Beach Recreation Trail would cover the Pantai Bersih beach, Bagan Ajam beach, Pantai Teluk Molek (Robina Park) beach, Teluk Air Tawar recreation park, Kuala Bekah beach, Pantai Penaga, Sungai Muda sanctuary park, Pantai Kamloon recreation park, Bertam Vision Park, Padang Cempedak recreation park and Air Hitam Dalam recreation park.\n\nFurthermore, the Central Seberang Perai Local Plan 2020 draft would include the upgrade of the Penang Bird Park, the Seberang Jaya Expo, proposals of rural homestay project in Sama Gagah, Pematang Pasir and Kubang Semang, promoting education-based tourism with MICE facilities in Prai and eco-tourism in Mengkuang Dam and Cherok Tok Kun.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306063", "title": "Advance Credit Administration Program", "text": "Advance Credit Administration Program\n\nThe Advanced Credit Administration Program is a series of college equivalent courses designed to prepare a credit manager for additional managerial responsibilities and for the CBF Designation exam.\n\nA combination of course work and NACM Career Roadmap points is needed to qualify for the Credit Business Fellow (CBF) designation exam.\n\nThe courses required for the ACAP program are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306069", "title": "Cairn Toul", "text": "Cairn Toul\n\nThe mountain towers above the western side pass of the Lairig Ghru.\n\nCairn Toul is often climbed in conjunction with other peaks. From the south, it may be combined with The Devil's Point, which lies about 2.5 kilometres south-southeast. Alternatively, it may be climbed from the north, including Braeriach and Sgor an Lochain Uaine. Both routes are long days by Scottish standards: around 15 km (plus return) regardless of whether one starts from Coire Cas above Speyside, or Linn of Dee to the south.\n\nThe mountain may also be climbed from the west, starting from Achlean in Glen Feshie. This provides for a slighter shorter route (around 27 km for the round trip), though the walker must negotiate a large expanse of undulating boggy plateau in order to reach the Breariach-Cairn Toul massif.\n\nThere is a bothy, \"Corrour\", at the point below Cairn Toul in the defile of the Lairig Ghru.\n"}
{"id": "2306072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306072", "title": "Olivia Ong", "text": "Olivia Ong\n\nOlivia Ong (; born ) is a Singaporean singer and actress. The majority of her works are in Mandarin Chinese, but she has also recorded songs in English, Cantonese and Japanese. In her early days, her entertainment career focused on singing jazz covers, but she has since moved on to Mandarin pop.\n\nAfter completion of her O-level examinations at Damai Secondary School in Singapore, Ong moved to Japan to further her studies as well as her career as a solo artist. Ong, by then likened to Seiko Matsuda, had won a singing contest and was signed to Japanese recording company S2S Pte Ltd at the age of 15. Her music influences include Nat King Cole and Nina Simone.\n\nOng formed the J-pop group Mirai in Singapore at the age of 15 and with two other Singaporean girls. Their first single, \"Open Up Your Mind\", was one of the theme songs in the Japanese anime \"Gensoumaden Saiyuki\".\n\nHer début \"A Girl Meets Bossa Nova\" was released when she was 19. Tracks include a reinterpretation Frank Sinatra's hits such as \"Quiet Nights of Quiet Stars\", among other jazz and pop numbers.\n\nOn 17 November 2004, Olivia sang \"Majulah Singapura\" at the 2006 FIFA World Cup Asian qualifying rounds (Japan vs Singapore) at Saitama Stadium 2002 before the kick-off.\n\nIn 2009, Ong was signed to Taiwanese record company HIM Music and became a big hit back in Singapore after she sang the theme song of the Peranakan-themed drama serial, \"The Little Nyonya\". Her first record under HIM Music was released on 5 March 2010, entitled \"Olivia\". In 2011, Ong recorded a duet, \"最後一眼\" (Just One Look), with label mate Aaron Yan of Fahrenheit, which was released in his debut EP \"The Next Me\".\n\nIn 2011, Ong also appeared in the film \"It's a Great, Great World\" (大世界) as Ah Min, a young fashion photographer who stumbled across a set of old photographs taken by her late grandmother (Yvonne Lim). She took the photographs to her grandmother's old friend, Ah Meng (Chew Chor Meng) who might have had connections to the people in the photographs. Ah Meng then proceeds to tell 4 different stories based on each photograph, each telling a story from different generations.\n\nIn 2012, Ong has been appointed Music Ambassador of the Global Chinese Music Awards, the second Singaporean artiste to be appointed the role after Joi Chua. In the same year, she also sang the 2012 National Day Parade theme song, \"\"Love at First Light\"\".\n\nOng appeared on the Mediacorp drama Crescendo in 2015 where she was cast as a singer Alixia. She may also be releasing a new album.\n\nOng has stated that her paternal grandfather is Peranakan.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306089", "title": "Kavalam", "text": "Kavalam\n\nKavalam is a village in Kuttanadu, Kerala state, Alappuzha District. India.\n\nKavalam is located on the borders of Alapuzha and Kottayam districts, on the banks of Vembanad Lake.\n\nThe Pampa river flows through the village to merge into the famed Vembanad Lake. Its natural scenic beauty is legendary and has been used by many filmmakers. Relatively untouched by modernity, Kavalam is a green haven.\n\nInterspersed with the \"kayals\" (canals) and lakes, this belly of Kerala is serene. The lakes and kayals are filled with flocks of ducks, and in summer the rice paddies of Kuttanad turn golden. With a longtime history behind it, Kavalam is part of Kerala's cultural folklore.\n\nA decade back, this sleepy village was accessible only by the lake boats provided by the government of Kerala. As in many other remote parts of Kerala, this non-accessibility gave Kavalam a laidback atmosphere. The place is now accessible from Alleppey, Kottayam and Changanacherry by road. What makes Kavalam unique is its vast \"watery junction\" that joins five canals at one place unlike other road junctions — a rare sight indeed!\n\nThe village boasts a snake boat named Kavalam Chundan, which is a regular participant in the snakeboat Vallamkali races. Kavalam Chundan is the subject of the legendary film song of the 1960s \"Kuttanadan Punchayile Kochu penne, Kuyilaale.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306093", "title": "Masyu", "text": "Masyu\n\n\"Masyu\" is played on a rectangular grid of squares, some of which contain circles; each circle is either \"white\" (empty) or \"black\" (filled). The goal is to draw a single continuous non-intersecting loop that properly passes through all circled cells. The loop must \"enter\" each cell it passes through from the center of one of its four sides and \"exit\" from a different side; all turns are therefore 90 degrees.\n\nThe two varieties of circle have differing requirements for \"how\" the loop must pass through them:\n\n\n\nThe early version of \"Masyu\" first appeared in \"Puzzle Communication Nikoli\" #84 under the title of \"Shinju no Kubikazari\" (真珠の首飾り, meaning \"pearl necklace\"). That puzzle contains only white circles. Black circles were introduced in \"Puzzle Communication Nikoli\" #90, and the puzzle was renamed \"Shiroshinju Kuroshinju\" (白真珠黒真珠, meaning \"white pearls and black pearls\"). This improvement deepened the puzzle and made it gain popularity. \"Masyu\", which is originally a misreading by Nikoli's president of kanji 真珠 (\"shinju\"), and apparently became an inside joke at the Nikoli office, was adopted in \"Puzzle Communication Nikoli\" #103 to replace the old lengthy name.\n\nUnderstanding the nuances of the circles and how they interact with each other is the key to solving a \"Masyu\" puzzle. Generally speaking, it is easiest to start along the outside border of the grid and work inwards. Here are some basic scenarios where portions of the loop can be determined:\n\n\nAs in other loop-construction puzzles, \"short circuits\" also need to be avoided: as the solution must consist of a single loop, any segment that would close a loop is forbidden unless it immediately yields the solution to the entire puzzle.\n\nLike many other combinatory and logic puzzles, Masyu can be very difficult to solve; solving Masyu on arbitrarily large grids is an NP-complete problem. However, published instances of puzzles have generally been constructed in such a way that they can be solved in a reasonable amount of time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306096", "title": "Catherine Baker Knoll", "text": "Catherine Baker Knoll\n\nCatherine Baker Knoll (September 3, 1930 – November 12, 2008) was an American politician and member of the Democratic Party. She was the 30th Lieutenant Governor of Pennsylvania, serving under Governor Ed Rendell from 2003 to 2008, when she died in office. Prior to that, she served as the 32nd Pennsylvania State Treasurer from 1989 to 1997.\n\nCatherine Baker was born in the Pittsburgh suburb of McKees Rocks, the daughter of Nick Baker, a successful man who later served as mayor of McKees Rocks and Teresa May (one of eleven children). She was one of nine children, one of five girls and four boys. While a graduate at Duquesne University in 1952, she met and married Charles A. Knoll, a restaurateur and hotel owner 17 years her senior, who became the Postmaster of the Stowe, Kennedy, and McKees Rocks area. Charles Knoll and Catherine had three sons and one daughter. Their names are Charles A. Knoll Jr., Mina Baker Knoll, Albert Baker Knoll, and Kim Eric Knoll.\n\nKnoll began her political career as a campaign worker for local and statewide Democratic candidates, first for her father, Nick, and later for Governor Milton Shapp. When Shapp was elected governor in 1970, he awarded Knoll a job with the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation.\n\nIn 1976, she ran for the Democratic nomination for state treasurer but lost to Robert E. Casey, who was unrelated to, but often confused with Bob Casey who went on to become Governor of Pennsylvania. She ran again in 1984 but lost a close primary in which her opponent, Auditor General Al Benedict, originally conceded on election night but later withdrew his concession.\nIn 1988, one year after her husband's death, she ran a third time and was elected state treasurer of Pennsylvania.\n\nShe streamlined and modernized the treasurer's office during her eight-year tenure and started the Pennsylvania TAP program (Tuition Account Program), built the PA Treasury Investment Center, and started a partnership with PA Home Builders, PA Community Banks, to build PA Affordable Housing in 67 counties of Pennsylvania) according to the population of each county. \n\nIn 1994, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission launched an investigation into Knoll and her staff after four state consultants reaped improper fees from a prison bond issue. Knoll claimed that the official paperwork had been altered after she signed off on the plan. Knoll was never charged with a crime but the well-publicized inquiry hurt her politically. However, the four state consultants were found guilty and served prison time. \n\nCatherine Baker Knoll ran for the Democratic nomination for governor in 1994, having surprised Lieutenant Governor Mark Singel, by first withdrawing from the race and then hinting that she would consider running if the Democratic State Committee did not endorse anyone for the race. The State Committee voted to endorse no candidate and Knoll re-entered the race only to finish third in a seven-way primary.\n\nIn 1996, Knoll, who was term limited, endorsed her daughter Mina Baker Knoll as her successor. Mina Knoll's opponent, Republican Barbara Hafer questioned her residency status because she had lived in New York City and the Knoll campaign attacked Hafer's leadership as auditor general. The race, which Hafer won, opened a rift between the two women that culminated in 2000 when Knoll herself ran against Hafer for treasurer. The race featuring arguably the two highest-profile women in Pennsylvania politics, was noted for its bitterness between the two; Hafer cited a fraud scandal investigation by the SEC into Knoll's office while she was treasurer, and Knoll attacked Hafer for questionable expenses paid by the state. In the end, Hafer won the election by less than 100,000 votes.\n\nIn 2002, Knoll sought the Democratic nomination for Lieutenant Governor of Pennsylvania. She faced nine candidates in the primary, including state Senators Allen Kukovich, John Lawless, Thaddeus Kirkland, and Jack Wagner, the latter of which was endorsed by the state party. Maintaining her base of support among women and senior citizens, Knoll won the primary with 25% of the vote, winning 54 of the state's 67 counties.\n\nShe was paired with Democratic nominee for governor Ed Rendell, who also defeated the establishment favorite in his primary (Bob Casey Jr.). Her campaign was memorable for her traveling from small town to small town (logging over 40,000 miles on her car), and her meeting thousands of voters, by visiting church basements, PTA meetings, fashion shows and construction sites. The Rendell/ Knoll ticket won the general election 53% to 44% over Republicans Mike Fisher and his running mate Jane Earll. Knoll was sworn in as Pennsylvania's first-ever woman Lieutenant Governor on January 21, 2003.\n\nKnoll's old rival Barbara Hafer, after failing to secure the Republican nomination for governor, actually endorsed Rendell and later switched to the Democratic party. This led to speculation that she was maneuvering to challenge Knoll for the lieutenant governor spot in the 2006 primary. Hafer, however, stated that she and Knoll had buried the hatchet long ago, and did not enter the race.\n\nCongressman Joe Hoeffel announced that he would challenge Knoll in the primary, but dropped out of the race a day later, after Ed Rendell reiterated his support for Knoll as his running-mate. This left only token opposition against Knoll, and she won the Democratic nomination by a large margin. She and Governor Rendell defeated Republican challengers Lynn Swann and Jim Matthews to win reelection.\n\nKnoll endorsed and campaigned with Hillary Clinton in the lead-up to the 2008 Pennsylvania Democratic primary for president. Along with several other prominent Pennsylvania Democrats, Knoll's endorsement was seen as a key to Clinton's win.\n\nAs lieutenant governor, she presided over every Pennsylvania Senate session. Governor Rendell noted that she was \"instrumental in issues such as emergency management, domestic preparedness and economic development.\"\n\nIn August 2008, Knoll revealed that she had been diagnosed with neuroendocrine cancer and was in treatment for the disease. She was treated in Hershey, Pennsylvania at Penn State Hershey Medical Center and attempted a return to her duties in September 2008 but fatigue forced her to return home. In October 2008, she entered Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore, Maryland for treatment of a viral infection. On November 12, 2008, Knoll died at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York City. Upon her death, Pennsylvania State Senate President pro tempore Joe Scarnati became the Lieutenant Governor of Pennsylvania.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306099", "title": "Don Tapscott", "text": "Don Tapscott\n\nDon Tapscott (born June 1, 1947) is a Canadian business executive, author, consultant and speaker, who specializes in business strategy, organizational transformation and the role of technology in business and society. He is the CEO of the Tapscott Group and the co-founder and Executive Chairman of the Blockchain Research Institute.\n\nTapscott has authored or co-authored sixteen books on the application of technology in business and society. His 2006 book, \"Wikinomics: How Mass Collaboration Changes Everything (2006)\", co-authored by Anthony D. Williams, was an international bestseller, was number one on the 2007 management book charts and has been translated into 20 different languages.\n\nTapscott lives in Toronto. He is the former Chancellor of his alma mater Trent University, and is currently an Adjunct Professor of Technology and Operations Management at INSEAD.\n\n, Tapscott is involved in cross-industry groups attempting to advance solutions to governance issues in the emerging blockchain industry.\n\nTapscott was born in Toronto and lived as a teen in Orillia, Ontario, where he was a part of the first graduating class of Park Street Collegiate Institute.\n\nTapscott holds a B.Sc. in psychology and statistics and an M.Ed. specializing in research methodology. While earning this degree at the University of Alberta, he ran for mayor of Edmonton in the 1977 municipal election on behalf of the Revolutionary Workers' League.\n\nTapscott holds three honorary degrees—Doctor of Laws (\"honoris causa\")—granted by the University of Alberta in 2001, Trent University in 2006, and McMaster University in 2010.\n\nHe was named a Member of the Order of Canada in 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306103", "title": "Crobots", "text": "Crobots\n\nCrobots is a programming game released for the first time by Tom Poindexter in December, 1985 as Shareware.\nThe robots are controlled by a program written in a stripped-down version of C. The robot's mission is to seek out and destroy other robots, each running different programs. The robots can be controlled in order to move around the battlefield, scan the environment to find enemies and fire at enemies using a cannon.\n\nCrobots borrows the concept used from the game RobotWar that ran on the original Apple II computer. Robots were programmed in a proprietary programming language that was interpreted and included a real-time view of the game as it was played.\n\nIn October, 2013, Poindexter released the source code of Crobots under the GPLv2 open-source software license.\n\nThere have been many Crobots clones made. However, very few of them are compiler and virtual machine at the same time; for example there are Java clones that use JVM and C++ clones that use a standard Microsoft compiler.\n\nProper clones have the same intrinsic functions as the original Tom Poindexter version; sometimes however the direction of angles is changed to match the standard C library's trigonometric functions. The most recent clones are Crobots64 and Netrobots.\n\nCrobots64 by Marco Zora has a C++-subset compiler and a virtual machine with a graphical interface. New capabilities in this clone are cooperation between robots of the same species, the unlimited number of concurrent robots, the floating point math functions and the speed of the virtual CPU.\n\nIn contrast, Netrobots can run over a network with each robot running in a separate process, and each robot can be written in a different programming language.\n"}
{"id": "2306105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306105", "title": "Agrarian Union", "text": "Agrarian Union\n\n'Agrarian Union may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2306106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306106", "title": "Gardenstown", "text": "Gardenstown\n\nGardenstown () is a small coastal village, by road east of Banff in Aberdeenshire, northeastern Scotland. \nThe village's main economic base is fishing. Gardenstown is served by Gardenstown New Church. The hamlet of Dubford is to the south, and a footpath along the shore to the east leads to the village of Crovie.\n\nThere is evidence of Neolithic or Bronze Age peoples having settled in the vicinity of Gardenstown; notably at Longman Hill and Cairn Lee. Nearby are the remains of the Church of St John the Evangelist which was built in 1513, and celebrates the defeat of the Danes at this site in 1004 in the 'Battle of the Bloody Pits'.\n\nGardenstown was founded in 1720 by Alexander Garden as a fishing village. A church was built in 1875, and the parish of Gardenstown was separated from Gamrie on 16 March 1885. In 1953, heavy flooding washed away two houses in the village.\n\nIn May 2007, a TV series titled \"The Baron\" was filmed in and around the village. The series featured three celebrities — Malcolm McLaren, Mike Reid and Suzanne Shaw — competing to be elected \"Baron of Troup\". During the filming, McLaren was thrown out of the village for unruly behaviour, leaving Reid and Shaw to contest the final election, which was won by Reid.\n\nBetween 2008 and 2010, an ethnographic study of the social, religious and economic life of the village was conducted by anthropologist Joseph Webster. This was published by Palgrave in 2013 as a book entitled \"The Anthropology of Protestantism: Faith and Crisis among Scottish Fishermen\".\n\nIn January and February 2008, the village again made headlines when Aberdeenshire Council refused funding to restore the road which runs along the seafront and is a key part of the village's sea defences. The refusal was based upon the status of the road as a private road, thus not the responsibility of the council. This has been seen as controversial since the road runs along the top of the seawall, and the council is responsible for the wall. Residents expressed grave concern that their houses might be washed away and appealed.\n\nThe village's main economic base is fishing. A permanent meteorological station is situated at Gardenstown. The village is served by Gardenstown New Church and has a pub, an osteopathy clinic and a whale and dolphin rescue centre. Until recently there was a bakery and a butcher's shop.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306108", "title": "Muktar Said Ibrahim", "text": "Muktar Said Ibrahim\n\nMuktar Said Ibrahim (born 24 January 1978), also known as Muktar Mohammed Said, was found guilty of involvement in the attempted 21 July attacks on London's public transport system. He attempted to detonate a device on a London bus and was arrested sharing an apartment with Ramzi Mohammed on 29 July 2005. During the arrest, which culminated in Ramzi and Ibrahim standing near-naked on their balcony to avoid tear gas that police had used,\n\nHe was originally from Eritrea and arrived in the UK as a child dependent of asylum seekers in 1990, and was granted residency in 1992. It has been reported that he applied for naturalisation as a British citizen in November 2003 and was issued with a British passport in September 2004. He had been living in Stoke Newington, London. Ibrahim was convicted of robbery and jailed for five years in 1996 for committing the crime and also carrying a knife. His family were apparently unaware of any involvement in terrorist activities and have publicly distanced themselves from him since the bombing attempts.\n\nIbrahim was educated at Canons High School in Edgware.\n\n29 July 2005 Ibrahim was arrested and in February 2007 tried alongside five other suspects for his part in the attempted bombings.\n\n9 July 2007 he was found guilty at Woolwich Crown Court of conspiracy to murder and sentenced to life imprisonment, to serve a minimum of forty years before being considered for release.\n\nApril 2008 the court of appeal judges dismissed a challenge by Ibrahim, Omar, Mohammed and Osman to their convictions. \n\nIn December 2014, an appeal to the European Court of Human Rights lodged in 2008 by the bombers, claiming that their rights were breached in the 'safety interviews' after their arrests, was rejected.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306116", "title": "Simple Common Gateway Interface", "text": "Simple Common Gateway Interface\n\nThe Simple Common Gateway Interface (SCGI) is a protocol for applications to interface with HTTP servers, as an alternative to the CGI protocol. It is similar to FastCGI but is designed to be easier to parse. Unlike CGI, it permits a long-running service process to continue serving requests, thus avoiding delays in responding to requests due to setup overhead (such as connecting to a database).\n\nSCGI is a \"protocol\" which defines \"communication\" between a webserver and an application server. This is in contrast to CGI, which is an earlier application (gateway) interface designed to let the application programmer avoid the complexity of sockets and long-running service processes when poor scalability and high overhead are acceptable.\n\nThe SCGI protocol leverages the fact that the client has already parsed and validated the HTTP request, and canonically communicates the request to the SCGI server while letting the application programmer avoid parsing ambiguities and protocol edge cases. This avoids the complicated header-parsing and header-combining rules from RFC2616, saving significant complexity in the SCGI server process.\n\nNeil Schemenauer published the original SCGI protocol specification dated October 2001. He developed the first implementations of SCGI and initially published them in April 2002.\n\nThe client connects to a SCGI server over a reliable stream protocol allowing transmission of 8-bit bytes. The client begins by sending a request. When the SCGI server sees the end of the request it sends back a response and closes the connection. The format of the response is not specifically specified by this protocol, although CGI-equivalent HTTP responses are generally used.\n\nA SCGI request is the concatenation of netstring-encoded headers and a body. A SCGI response is a normal HTTP response.\n\nEach header consists of a name-value pair, where both the name and the value are null-terminated strings (C strings). The value can be an empty string, in which case the terminating null still remains. Neither name nor value can contain any embedded null bytes. These considerations are standard for C strings, but are often confusing for programmers used to other standards for string-handling.\n\nAll provided headers are concatenated to form a single byte sequence, then netstring-encoded. The raw body, if any, is then appended.\n\nDuplicate names are not allowed in the request headers; RFC2616-compliant header combining must already have taken place. The first request header must have the name \"CONTENT_LENGTH\" and a value that is the length of the body in decimal. The \"CONTENT_LENGTH\" request header must always be present, even if its value is \"0\". There must also always be a request header with the name \"SCGI\" and a value of \"1\". Standard CGI environment variables should be provided in SCGI headers for compatibility when converting older CGI programs to SCGI. The body (if any) provided in the request follows the headers; its length is specified by the \"CONTENT_LENGTH\" request header.\n\nWhile the SCGI protocol insulates the service programmer from some HTTP considerations, various details (such as interpreting the octets of the message body as per the Transfer-Encoding header, the CONTENT_LENGTH being the number of octets after the body has been encoded for transmission, etc.) still require knowledge of the HTTP protocol specification.\n\nThe web server (a SCGI client) opens a connection and sends the concatenation of the following strings to the service process (a SCGI server):\n\nThe SCGI server sends the following response back to the web server:\n\nThe SCGI server closes the connection.\n\n\"(this list is not complete)\"\n\nSCGI can be implemented in any language that supports network sockets and netstrings. The following is a partial list of languages with known SCGI bindings:\n\nApplication/Gatway protocols:\n\nApplication hosts (language-specific):\n\n"}
{"id": "2306128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306128", "title": "Rocket Racer", "text": "Rocket Racer\n\nRocket Racer is the name of two fictional characters appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.\n\nThe first Rocket Racer appeared in \"Amazing Spider-Man\" #172 (Sept 1977) as a super-villain. He returned in issues #182 and #183 in a battle against the Big Wheel. His origin was finally revealed in \"Spectacular Spider-Man\" #104.\n\nRocket Racer appeared as a supporting character in \"Avengers Academy\" in issue #21 (Jan 2012) and issue #26 (April 2012).\n\nRobert Farrell, born in Brooklyn, New York, was the eldest of seven children. He became responsible for his younger siblings when his mother Emma Johnson Farrell died. Robert was a scientific prodigy, and when he realized he couldn't earn enough to support his family, he turned to a life of crime as the Rocket Racer. He developed a super-powered skateboard which is propelled at great speed by small rockets and cybernetically controlled by a crude walkman-like device. He wore a weapon-equipped costume, including rocket-powered gloves which give him the ability to hit an opponent with a \"rocket-powered-punch.\"\n\nEarly in his career as a burglar, Rocket Racer encounters Spider-Man.\n\nRocket Racer hires Tinkerer to redesign his skateboard after his first defeat by Spider-Man. At one point he is hired by Jackson Weele to steal evidence that might incriminate him. Robert uses the evidence to blackmail Jackson. Weele wishes to commit suicide but Robert stops him. Even then, though, he mocks Weele, calling him \"Big Weele\". This is enough for Jackson to hire the villain the Tinkerer to create a literal 'Big Wheel', to chase Robert around town with. Spider-Man assists and Jackson seemingly falls to his death in the Hudson River. Later, Rocket Racer was saved by Spider-Man from the Bounty Hunter.\n\nRepeated defeats at the hands of Spider-Man and several brushes with the law, including a short jail sentence, convince Robert to reform. He goes through a high school equivalency course and his extremely high marks gain him a scholarship to Empire State University. This doesn't go well as his first few days are full with combating the efforts of a hate-group on campus. Though assisted by Spider-Man and sometimes, by other students who oppose the racism, Robert still struggles with his own rage during the entire ordeal.\n\nLater, Robert attempted to prove Spider-Man innocent of a crime; and first encountered Silver Sable and The Outlaws. He joined forces with Spider-Man to stop the white supremacist, Skinhead. He was hired as a freelance operative for Silver Sable International to prevent two youths from stealing the victims' weapons at the Bar with No Name, the site of the Scourge massacre. He was again hired by Sable to stop the Speed Demon. He joined Spider-Man and the Outlaws against the Avengers and the Space Phantom, He was again hired along with the Outlaws to retrieve a Symkarian nuclear device in England. He was hired by Sable to stop a runaway subway maintenance robot. Rocket Racer finally formally joined the Outlaws, to rescue the kidnapped daughter of a Canadian official.\n\nRobert is identified as one of the 142 registered superheroes who appear on the cover of the comic book #1. As a registered hero, he reported to Camp Hammond for training. Despite this, he needed money to support his comatose mother and prevent repossession of their house, so he was seen working for MODOK. He \"appeared\" to have been tempted back into crime, and reduced to a state of stuttering nervousness by the situation. He turned out to have been working for S.H.I.E.L.D. all along, with a deal that they will give him the money he needs in return for the Hypernova - he failed in this and it's unknown yet what's happened with his mother.\n\nRocket Racer is part of the new class of students when the Avengers Academy moves to the former headquarters of the West Coast Avengers. Rocket Racer later leaves the Avengers Academy alongside Machine Teen to join child genius Jeremy Briggs.\n\nAnother Rocket Racer first appeared in \"Amazing Spider-Man\" (vol.2) #13 (January 2000).\n\nHenry Sleeman was hired by an unnamed employer to befriend Robert Farrell and steal his Rocket Racer gear. He did so, taking the name \"Troy\" and posing as Farrell's friend for months. When Farrell finally showed him where he kept the gear, 'Troy' tied him up and stole it, pursuing Spider-Man with the intention of fighting him, only to be defeated when restaurateur Harry Sloane opened a door at just the right time for 'Troy' to run into the door and knock himself unconscious.\n\nThis Rocket Racer briefly joined Tombstone's prison squad along with Big Ben and Hypno-Hustler where they provided Tombstone some protection at the time when he went under a heart bypass.\n\nRobert Farrell has a gifted intellect, but no superhuman powers. He wears gauntlets furnished with explosive mini-rockets, and utilizes a cybernetically-controlled, rocket-powered magnetic skateboard, which he designed and was later redesigned by the Tinkerer.\n\nOutside of mainstream Marvel continuity, Rocket Racer has appeared as a super-villain in \"Spider-Man Loves Mary Jane\". In another series Rocket Racer is a socially withdrawn patsy of the supervillain called 'The Tinkerer', and his rocket gear is simply used to showcase the man's technological genius to potential clients.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306135", "title": "Director of Immigration", "text": "Director of Immigration\n\nThe Director of Immigration () is the head of the Immigration Department of the Hong Kong Government, which is responsible for immigration issues and controlling entry ports into Hong Kong. Decisions to reject people from entering are made by front-line staff at , not made by the Director himself.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306136", "title": "British Journal of Social Psychology", "text": "British Journal of Social Psychology\n\nThe British Journal of Social Psychology is a peer-reviewed academic journal published by Wiley-Blackwell on behalf of the British Psychological Society. It publishes original papers on subjects like social cognition, attitudes, group processes, social influence, intergroup relations, self and identity, nonverbal communication, and social psychological aspects of affect and emotion, and of language and discourse. The journal was established in 1962 as the \"British Journal of Social and Clinical Psychology\" and obtained its current title in 1981. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2018 Impact Factor of 2.213.\n"}
{"id": "2306141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306141", "title": "Yasin Hassan Omar", "text": "Yasin Hassan Omar\n\nYasin Hassan Omar (sometimes spelt Yassin) (born 1 January 1983) was convicted for his role in the attempted 21 July attacks on London's public transport system. He was found guilty of attempting to detonate a device on the London Underground Victoria line tube train between Warren Street and Oxford Circus tube stations. In August 2005 police gave his age as 24 after his arrest.\n\nOmar was originally from Somalia and arrived in the UK as a child dependent of asylum seekers, in 1992. He was granted indefinite leave to remain in 2000.\n\nOmar was one of four men arrested on Wednesday 27 July 2005 at 0430 BST, in a property on Heybarnes Road, in the Small Heath area of Birmingham. He was then taken to London's Paddington Green police station for questioning.\n\nPolice used a 'Taser' stun gun to detain him. This was criticised as an incredible risk by Metropolitan Police Commissioner Ian Blair, saying \"If there is a bomb on that body, then the bomb is going to go off\". This risk was played down by West Midlands Police, who said Sir Ian Blair did not know the full circumstances surrounding the arrest, but they still voluntarily referred the matter to the Independent Police Complaints Commission.\n\nOn 6 August 2005 he was charged with four criminal charges:\n\nOn 28 April 2006, Omar, along with his co-accused pleaded not guilty to all charges against him and was placed on trial with 5 other suspects.\n\nHis fiancée, Fardosa Abdullah, was arrested on 4 October 2006. She was charged with assisting Omar in evading arrest and with failing to disclose information which could have led to Omar's arrest or conviction \"as soon as reasonably practicable\". She was subsequently jailed for three years.\n\nOn 9 July 2007, Yasin Hassan Omar was found guilty at Woolwich Crown Court of conspiracy to murder and sentenced to life imprisonment, with a minimum of 40 years before being considered for release.\n\nIn April 2008, the court of appeal judges dismissed a challenge by Ibrahim, Omar, Mohammed and Osman to their convictions.\n\nIn December 2014, an appeal to the European Court of Human Rights lodged in 2008 by the bombers, claiming that their rights were breached in the 'safety interviews' after their arrests, was rejected.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306143", "title": "Uhlsport", "text": "Uhlsport\n\nUhlsport GmbH is a German sporting goods manufacturer. Originally established in 1948 as \"Haase & Uhl OHG\" and later renamed \"Karl Uhl GmbH\", the company became \"uhlsport GmbH\" in 1994. It is an international company which has its permanent headquarters in Balingen in Baden-Württemberg, Germany.\n\nThe company manufactures and distributes its products through the brands Uhlsport, Kempa, Spalding and BLK.\n\nThe company was founded in 1948 by Karl Uhl. Early production focussed on the manufacture of leather studs for football boots, and in 1953 uhlsport also began to produce football boot soles for sports shoe manufacturers. In the years which followed more products were added, including shin guards, sports bandages, footballs and goalkeeper gloves, until finally uhlsport GmbH had developed a full range of football equipment. Since 2002, the company has been operating a multi-brand strategy for football, handball, and basketball.\n\nIn 2019, Uhlsport used Nike designs for Iranian clubs' kit. The company had previously announced that its designs were proprietary and special.\n\nThe brand \"uhlsport\" specialises in football, especially goalkeeper equipment. Since 2002, handball equipment has been marketed through the company's own \"Kempa\" brand, and uhlsport GmbH also owns the European distribution rights to the American basketball brand Spalding, a division of Russell Brands, LLC which produces balls for a wide range of sports such as association and American football, basketball, baseball, volleyball. \n\nAnother brand of the group is BLK, an Australian company that focuses mainly focuses on apparel for rugby union and league.\n\nThe German company operates an indirect distribution strategy with subsidiaries in France, Spain, and Sweden and with country managers in UK, Benelux, and Switzerland. Uhlsport has a further 80 distribution partners across the world. In 1998, the company was sold by the Uhl family to the Daiss family.\n\nUhlsport is the official equipment supplier to Fortuna Düsseldorf, SSV Reutlingen 05, 1. FC Magdeburg, Corona Braşov, FC Avanhard Kramatorsk, Chernomorets Odessa and the Women's Bundesliga team VfL Sindelfingen. As official ball sponsor uhlsport supports the French Ligue 1 and the French Ligue 2. The goalkeepers Hugo Lloris, Danijel Subasic, Lukas Hradecky, Ron-Robert Zieler, and others play with uhlsport gloves.\n\n\nUhlsport is the official supplier for the following leagues and associations:\n\n\n Bahrain (2019–2024)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306146", "title": "WWE Survivor Series (video game)", "text": "WWE Survivor Series (video game)\n\nWWE Survivor Series is a professional wrestling video game developed by Natsume and published by THQ for the Game Boy Advance handheld console. \"WWE Survivor Series\" is based on the World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) annual pay-per-view, Survivor Series. The game is the sequel to \"Road to WrestleMania X8\". \"WWE Survivor Series\" was also the last WWE video game released for a Nintendo handheld console until WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2008 for the Nintendo DS in 2007.\n\nWith it being two years since the last Game Boy Advance WWE game, the roster is vastly different from previous one and included eight \"Raw\" and eight \"SmackDown!\" wrestlers. The story mode was changed to accompany the WWE's Brand Extension from 2002, meaning the player could choose a particular brand to get to the top before switching brands to conquer another brand. The story mode was also changed in that winning matches wasn't necessarily the main aim. Instead, the aim was to give out a good match and make matches less one-sided.\n\n\"WWE Survivor Series\" received \"mixed\" reviews according to video game review aggregator Metacritic.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306160", "title": "Martin de Knijff", "text": "Martin de Knijff\n\nMartin de Knijff (born 2 October 1972) is a professional sports bettor and high-stakes poker player from Gothenburg, Sweden.\n\nHis last name is from his Dutch father. His mother is Swedish. The family moved to Falkenberg when Martin was 5 and in 1992 Martin left to go to Stockholm and from there to Las Vegas where he currently lives.\n\nMartin started playing poker aged 15 (mostly 5-card draw) but became fond of Omaha and Hold-Em when introduced to them. He considers Doyle Brunson's book \"Super/System\" to be the best poker book ever written.\n\nHe first made a name for himself in the poker world with a 13th-place finish in the 2002 World Series of Poker Main Event, earning himself $60,000.\n\nIn the World Poker Tour, he finished 15th in the series 1 championship, winning $26,664; and went on to win the same tournament the following year, earning a then-record-breaking $2,728,356.\n\nLess than a month later his success continued with a 2nd-place finish in the $5,000 No Limit Hold-Em event at the 2004 World Series of Poker.\n\nMartin wrote an article for \"Card Player\" magazine in 2005 encouraging tournament backers to reveal themselves. It was met with mixed reactions from poker professionals.\n\nAs of his last tournament cash in 2008, his total live tournament winnings exceed $3,370,000.\n\nIn addition to poker, Martin is an avid bridge player. He finished second in the 2008 Blue Ribbon Pairs, one of the two major North American pairs bridge championships.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306164", "title": "Charles Tilston Bright", "text": "Charles Tilston Bright\n\nSir Charles Tilston Bright (8 June 1832 – 3 May 1888) was a British electrical engineer who oversaw the laying of the first transatlantic telegraph cable in 1858, for which work he was knighted.\n\nBorn on 8 June 1832 in Wanstead, Essex, Bright was educated at Merchant Taylors' School.\n\nAt fifteen he became a clerk for the Electric Telegraph Company and as his talent for electrical engineering became evident, he was appointed engineer to the Magnetic Telegraph Company in 1852. In that role he supervised the laying of lines in the British Isles, including in 1853 the first cable between Scotland and Ireland, from Portpatrick to Donaghadee, when he was just 21. This work, and the successful laying of other submarine cables, suggested to others that it might be possible to lay a cable across the Atlantic from Ireland to North America.\n\nJoining with Cyrus West Field and John Watkins Brett, who controlled the New York, Newfoundland and London Telegraph Company, Bright helped organise the Atlantic Telegraph Company in 1856 to develop a transatlantic cable, with himself as engineer-in-chief; Wildman Whitehouse soon joined them as chief electrician. Samuel Canning supported the effort on board HMS \"Agamemnon\".\n\nAfter two failed attempts in August 1857 and three more in June 1858, Bright successfully accomplished what to many had seemed an impossible feat, completing the first Atlantic cable from Trinity Bay, Newfoundland, to Valentia Island, Ireland, on 5 August 1858. Bright was knighted in Dublin just a few days later. Though widely hailed as the wonder of the age, the 1858 cable failed after only about a month of fitful service, a victim of hasty manufacture and the excessive signalling voltages used by Whitehouse. Sir Charles Bright emerged from the debacle with his reputation largely intact and went on to supervise the laying of successful cables in the Mediterranean, the Persian Gulf, and the Caribbean. He also served as a consultant on renewed efforts to span the Atlantic, which in 1866 resulted not only in the completion of the first lasting transatlantic cable, but in the recovery and completion of a cable that had snapped during laying in 1865.\n\nBright formed a partnership with Josiah Latimer Clark in 1861 and together they introduced numerous improvements in the manufacture, testing, and operation of submarine cables. They were strong advocates of establishing a unified system of electrical units, and a number of the proposals they made in a paper presented to the British Association for the Advancement of Science in 1861 were later taken up by the British Association Committee on Electrical Standards and formed the foundations of the system of ohms, amps, and volts still in use today. In 1865 he was awarded a Telford Medal for a paper on the possibilities of submarine cable telegraphy from England to China and Australia.\n\nIn 1870, Bright was contracted to be the engineer for the Panama and South Pacific Telegraph Company, which was planning to lay a submarine cable between Panama and Peru. However, this engagement ended in controversy when the Company discovered that, at the same time as Bright was acting as engineer for the Company, he had also agreed to be the sub-contractor for the Telegraph Works Company, which the Panama (etc.) Company had engaged to carry out the work of laying the cable the cable. This ended in a court case between the Panama (etc.) Company and Telegraph Works Company, which was heard in the Divisional Court on the 27th of April 1875, and which gave judgment for the Panama (etc.) Company on the basis that Bright's dual engagement had given rise to an improper conflict of interest that was tantamount to fraud. That case is now a leading judicial authority in English law on third party liability for procuring a breach of duty by an agent.\n\nFrom 1865 to 1868 Bright was Liberal MP for Greenwich and in 1887 he was elected president of the Society of Telegraph Engineers and Electricians (later the Institution of Electrical Engineers). Bright died on 3 May 1888, at Abbey Wood, near London. His son Charles Bright was also a noted cable engineer and historian of the subject.\n\nBright's funeral took place at Chiswick Churchyard with a subsequent service at St Cuthbert's, Earls Court. The numerous attendees included Prince Victor of Hohenlohe-Langenburg, Robert Jardine, Frederic John Goldsmid and David Lionel Goldsmid-Stern-Salomons.\n\nCharles Tilston Bright's son, also Charles Bright (1863-1937), followed in his father's footsteps. In addition to cable engineering he was a pioneer in the use of radio as a communication device on both ships and planes.\n\nHe was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh in 1895. He was knighted in 1919.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306167", "title": "Ryszard Pacławski", "text": "Ryszard Pacławski\n\nRyszard Pacławski (born 1958 in Sanok, Poland) is a Polish lawyer,\nScoutmaster (harcmistrz) and former Naczelnik ZHP (Chief Scout) from 1991 until 2000.\n"}
{"id": "2306171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306171", "title": "Lullula", "text": "Lullula\n\nLullula is the genus of woodlarks, songbirds in the family Alaudidae. There is only one remaining extant species, the woodlark which is found in Europe, the mountains of northern Africa, the Middle East and western Asia. The remainder are known only from the fossil record.\n\nThe genus \"Lullula\" was introduced by the German naturalist Johann Jakob Kaup in 1829. The genus \"Lullula\" is onomatopoeic from the French \"Lulu\", the name given by de Buffon. Both the French name, \"Alouette lulu\" and the genus name are derived from the sound of its song.\n\nThe genus contain a single extant species, the woodlark (\"Lullula arborea\").\n\n"}
{"id": "2306178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306178", "title": "Friendly Persuasion (song)", "text": "Friendly Persuasion (song)\n\n\"Friendly Persuasion (Thee I Love)\" is a popular song with music by Dimitri Tiomkin and lyrics by Paul Francis Webster. It was published in 1956 and appeared in the 1956 film of the same name. At the 29th Academy Awards, \"Friendly Persuasion\" was nominated for the Best Music – Song but lost out to \"Que Sera, Sera (Whatever Will Be, Will Be)\".\n\nThe best-known version of the song was recorded that year by Pat Boone and it reached the No. 5 position in the USA charts and No. 3 in the UK. Another recording by The Four Aces followed Boone's in 1956 and reached number 45 peak position on \"Billboard\"'s pop music chart.\n\nThe title is an obvious play on words, since the film centers on a Quaker family, a religion known as the \"Society of Friends\". Thus, they are said to be of the \"Friendly\" persuasion.\n\nJohnny Mathis included the song in his 1963 album \"Romantically\".\n\nBing Crosby recorded the song for his album \"Bing Crosby's Treasury - The Songs I Love (1968 version)\".\n\nAretha Franklin recorded the song for her album \"Soft and Beautiful\" (1969).\n\nThe Four Aces version of the song was used in the 2013 BBC television series \"Call the Midwife\".\n"}
{"id": "2306184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306184", "title": "Cream (Prince song)", "text": "Cream (Prince song)\n\n\"Cream\" is a song by Prince and The New Power Generation, from the album \"Diamonds and Pearls\" (1991). On MTV Unplugged 2004, Prince stated that he wrote the song while looking at himself in the mirror.\n\nThe single's B-side, \"Horny Pony\", a rap song which was replaced on \"Diamonds and Pearls\" at the last minute by \"Gett Off\", was re-used from the \"Gett Off\" single. \"Cream\" was also released as a maxi-single EP with remixes and songs/raps loosely based on \"Cream\". The EP was notable for including several prank telephone conversations.\n\nIn the UK, \"Gangster Glam\" was an additional B-side on the 12\"/CD maxi single. In Japan, an EP was released with the tracks from the US maxi single, and four tracks from the US \"Gett Off\" maxi single. \"Cream\" was Prince's fifth and last number-one single on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100.\n\nSeveral tracks on this release include unlisted telephone segues, and are listed with separate lengths on this page.\n\nIn the US, \"Cream\" hit number 1 for two weeks on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 in November, 1991, keeping \"Can't Stop This Thing We Started\" by Bryan Adams from reaching the top spot and it also made the Top 20 in the UK. It was very well received on American radio, peaking at number 2 on the Hot 100 Airplay. However, it did not make the R&B singles chart, because the track was not sent to Urban radio; \"Insatiable\" was sent to Urban instead.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2306189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306189", "title": "Bob Davie", "text": "Bob Davie\n\nBob Davie may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306197", "title": "Thesis (representative body)", "text": "Thesis (representative body)\n\nThesis is an interdisciplinary German network of young scientists, current and former PhD students in or with some relation to Germany. Thesis is a founding member of the European network of doctoral candidates Eurodoc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306200", "title": "Giovanni Battista Lacchini", "text": "Giovanni Battista Lacchini\n\nGiovanni Battista Lacchini (20 May 1884 – 6 January 1967) was an Italian astronomer.\n\nHe is primarily noted for his work in the study of variable stars. He published over 100 works, including papers in \"Astronomische Nachrichten\" and \"Memorie della Società astronomica italiana\". He was originally a postal worker.\n\nThe \"Giovanni Battista Lacchini Award\" is named for him. The Lunar crater \"Lacchini\" on the far-side of the Moon and the Mars-crossing asteroid 145962 Lacchini were also named in his honor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306210", "title": "Coma Supercluster", "text": "Coma Supercluster\n\nThe Coma Supercluster (SCl 117) is a nearby supercluster of galaxies comprising the Coma Cluster (Abell 1656) and the Leo Cluster (Abell 1367).\n\nLocated 300 million light-years from Earth, it is in the center of the Great Wall and a part of the Coma Filament. The Coma Supercluster is the nearest massive cluster of galaxies to our own Virgo Supercluster.\n\nIt is roughly spherical, about 20 million light-years in diameter and contains more than 3,000 galaxies. It is located in the constellation Coma Berenices. Being one of the first superclusters to be discovered, the Coma Supercluster helped astronomers understand the large scale structure of the universe.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306217", "title": "Ramesh Sippy", "text": "Ramesh Sippy\n\nRamesh Sippy (born 23 January 1947) is an Indian film director and producer, best known for directing the popular and critically acclaimed film \"Sholay\". He is a winner of the civilian honour of Padma Shri in 2013.\n\nSippy's father was producer G. P. Sippy. His son Rohan Sippy is a film director. His daughter Sheena was once married to Shashi Kapoor's son, Kunal Kapoor until they divorced in 2004. Ramesh Sippy has been married twice; his current wife is actress Kiran Juneja. In the year 2017, he founded Ramesh Sippy Academy of Cinema & Entertainment in Mumbai.\n\nRamesh Sippy visited the sets of the film \"Sazaa\", his father's first film, when he was 6 years old. His first film job came at age nine, when he played Achala Sachdev's son in the 1957 film \"Shahenshah\". He worked in both the production and direction departments in films like \"Johar-Mehmood in Goa\" and \"Mere Sanam\", which his father was producing. He worked for 7 years as an assistant before becoming the director of \"Andaz\", in 1971 which starred Shammi Kapoor, Hema Malini and Rajesh Khanna in lead roles and was a box office success. His second film \"Seeta Aur Geeta\" (1972), featuring Hema Malini playing dual roles was highly successful and propelled Malini to superstardom\n\nIn 1975, he directed \"Sholay\" featuring an ensemble cast including Dharmendra, Amitabh Bachchan, Sanjeev Kumar and Amjad Khan in his most iconic role as the dacoit Gabbar Singh. After a lukewarm start the box office, the film went on to become the biggest blockbuster in Bollywood film history and won major acclaim. \"Sholay\" still remains one of the most iconic films in Hindi film history and a favourite for Hindi film audiences globally.\n\nNone of his later films were able to match the success of \"Sholay\". While \"Sholay\" was a tribute to the Westerns, his next film \"Shaan\" in 1980 was inspired by the James Bond films but was only a moderate success. In 1982, he brought together veteran actor Dilip Kumar and the reigning superstar Amitabh Bachchan in \"Shakti\". While the film was only moderately successful, it won the Filmfare Best Movie Award. In 1985, he directed Saagar, which starred Rishi Kapoor, Kamal Hassan and marked Dimple Kapadia's comeback to films after 12 years since her debut film \"Bobby\".\n\nHe directed a successful television serial titled \"Buniyaad\" which focused on the Partition of India and aired on Indian television channel Doordarshan in 1987. The last three films he directed, \"Bhrashtachar\" (1989), \"Akayla\" (1991), and \"Zamana Deewana\" (1995) were box office flops and he has since not directed any film, as of 2015.\n\nHis string of hits with Amitabh Bachchan made him one of the golden directors who had a special working relationship with the actor (Yash Chopra, Prakash Mehra, Manmohan Desai, and Hrishikesh Mukherjee being the other four). In 2005 he received the Filmfare Best Film of 50 Years award for his legendary film, \"Sholay\".\n\nHe has produced films directed by his son Rohan Sippy, such as \"Kuch Naa Kaho\" (2003), \"Bluffmaster\" (2005) and \"Dum Maro Dum\" (2011). In 2006 he produced \"Taxi No. 9211\" which was directed by Milan Luthria. In 2008 he produced Kunaal Roy Kapur's \"The President is Coming\" as well as the Akshay Kumar-Deepika Padukone film, \"Chandni Chowk to China\", directed by Nikhil Advani.\n\nSippy's 1995 film \"Zamana Deewana\" was poorly received by audiences and critics, and led to the director abandoning film-making for almost 20 years. In 2015, he finished shooting his next film, \"Shimla Mirchi\", a comedy film starring Rajkummar Rao, Rakul Preet Singh, and Hema Malini. The film had difficulty attracting buyers as of July 2018, and has not been released.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306222", "title": "1983 Copa América", "text": "1983 Copa América\n\nThe 1983 Copa América football tournament was played between August 10 and November 4, with all ten CONMEBOL members participating. Defending champions Paraguay received a bye into the semi-finals.\n\nThe teams were drawn into three groups, consisting of three teams each. Each team played twice (home and away) against the other teams in their group, with two points for a win, one point for a draw, nil points for a loss. The winner of each group advanced to the semi-finals.\n\nParaguay qualified automatically as holders for the semifinal.\n\nUruguay won 2-1 on aggregate.\n\n\"\n\nAggregate tied 1-1: Brazil won on a drawing of lots.\n\nWith three goals, Jorge Luis Burruchaga, Roberto Dinamite and Carlos Aguilera are the top scorers in the tournament. In total, 55 goals were scored by 40 different players, with none of them credited as own goal.\n\n3 Goals\n\n2 Goals\n\n1 Goal\n\n"}
{"id": "2306230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306230", "title": "Patriarch Hermogenes of Moscow", "text": "Patriarch Hermogenes of Moscow\n\nHermogenes, or Germogen () (secular name Yermolay) (before 1530 – 17 February 1612) was the Patriarch of Moscow and all Russia from 1606. It was he who inspired the popular uprising that put an end to the Time of Troubles. Hermogenes was glorified by the Russian Orthodox Church in 1913. \n\nAt the Holy Synod of 1589, which established the patriarchy in Moscow, Hermogenes was appointed Metropolitan of the newly conquered city of Kazan. During the following two decades, he gained renown for a number of Muslim Volga Tatars converted to Eastern Orthodoxy.\n\nIn 1606, Hermogenes was summoned by False Dmitry I to take part in the Senate recently instituted in Moscow. There he learnt about the tsar's design to marry a Roman Catholic woman, Marina Mniszech, and firmly declared against such an alliance. At that he was exiled from the capital, only to return with great honours several months later, when the false tsar had been deposed, and Patriarch Ignatius followed suit.\n\nThe new tsar, Vasily IV, helped Hermogenes to become Patriarch of Moscow and all the Rus': Metropolitan Hermogenes was elected to the primatial See, and on 3 July 1606 he was installed as Patriarch by the assembly of the holy hierarchs at Moscow's Dormition cathedral. Metropolitan Isidore handed the Patriarch the staff of the holy hierarch Peter, and the Tsar gave as a gift to the new Patriarch a panagia, embellished with precious stones, a white klobuk and staff. In the ancient manner, Patriarch Hermogenes made his entrance riding upon a donkey. During Vasily's reign, Hermogenes generally supported the tsar's efforts to pacify the country and anathemized Ivan Bolotnikov and his army. \n\nWhen Vasily was dethroned and the Poles took hold of the Moscow Kremlin, Hermogenes staunchly opposed their plans to put Wladyslaw IV on the Russian throne, unless he converted to Orthodoxy. Despite knife threats from some of the boyars, he refused to sign any petitions to the Polish king, thus preventing Wladyslaw from coronation.\n\nIn December 1610 Hermogenes distributed letters to various Russian towns, urging the populace to rise against the Poles. When the volunteer army under Prokopy Lyapunov finally approached Moscow, he defied the Polish exhortations to anathemize the army. Despite being threatened with death penalty, he cursed the Roman Catholics and showed support for Lyapunov. After that, he was arrested and thrown into the Chudov Monastery. There he heard about the new volunteer army, mustered by Kuzma Minin and commanded by Prince Pozharsky, and blessed them both. Thereupon the patriarch was beaten and starved to death.\n\nThe body of Hermogenes was buried in the Chudov monastery, but in 1654 was transferred to the Moscow Dormition cathedral. The purported relics of Patriarch Germogen were accidentally found in one of the crypts of the Chudov Monastery during the 1913 repair works. In connection with the Romanov Dynasty Tercentenary, celebrated that same year, he was canonized as a hieromartyr and transferred to the nearby Dormition Cathedral.\n\nThe Russian Orthodox Church commemorates him on 17 February, the day of his death, and 12 May, the day of his recognized glorification.\n"}
{"id": "2306237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306237", "title": "Cody Burger", "text": "Cody Burger\n\nCody Michael Burger (born August 4, 1983) is an American former child actor and network engineer whose noteworthy acting credentials include portraying Cousin Rocky Johnson in \"National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation\" (1989), an appearance on the hit television program \"Home Improvement\" (1991), Mel Gibson's vehicle \"Forever Young\" (1992), and most recently, several lines delivered alongside Ben Stiller in Disney's \"Heavyweights\" (1995).\n\nSince then, Burger has been attending Florida State University and has made no announcements of a return to acting. He currently works as a senior network engineer and resides in Tallahassee, Florida.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306238", "title": "Judith of Bavaria (died 843)", "text": "Judith of Bavaria (died 843)\n\nQueen Judith (797– 19 April 843), also known as Judith of Bavaria, was the daughter of Count Welf of Bavaria and Saxon noblewoman, Hedwig. She was the second wife of Louis the Pious, Carolingian emperor and king of the Franks, which brought her the titles of queen and empress. Marriage to Louis marked the beginning of her rise as an influential figure in the Carolingian court. She had two children with Louis, a daughter Gisela and a son, Charles the Bald. The birth of her son led to a major dispute over the imperial succession, and tensions between her and Charles' half-brothers from Louis' first marriage. She would eventually fall from grace when Charles' wife, the new empress Ermentrude of Orléans, rose to power. She was buried in 846 in Tours.\n\nNo surviving sources provide a record of Judith’s exact date and year of birth. Judith was probably born around 797 Most girls in the Carolingian world were married in adolescence, with twelve years as the minimum age, though her marriage to the 41 year old King Louis occurred in 819, when she was around 22 years old.\n\nJudith was the daughter of the noble Saxon Heilwig and Count Welf I, and belonged to the ancestor of the kin-group known to historians as the Welfs. Though the Welf clan was noble, they were not part of the '\"Imperial Aristocracy'\" (\"Reichsaristokratie\") that dominated high office throughout the Carolingian empire. The Welf clan's leaders, having lost influence in their home region of Alemannia (present-day southwestern Germany and northern Switzerland) eventually rose to power though cementing familial ties with the Carolingian Imperial Aristocracy in the 770s. Nonetheless, they remained a part of the upper aristocracy (\"Hochadel\") of their region, given the numerous appearances of the noble titles of \"ducal\" (duke) and \"comital\" (counts) in primary sources. This noble status made Judith a suitable marriage prospect for the imperial family, and the Welf clan as a whole saw its prestige and power increase after Judith’s marriage to the Carolingian emperor Louis the Pious in 819.\n\nAfter the death on 3 October 818 of Louis' first wife Queen Ermengard, mother of his sons Louis the German, Peppin and Lothar, Louis was urged by his counselors to remarry. Shortly after Christmas in 819 he married Judith in Aachen (North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany). Like many of the royal marriages of the time Judith was selected, prior to the marriage through a bridal show. It is at the bride show that, at the age of forty one, Louis chose the young, twenty two year old Judith \"after inspecting noble maidens who were brought to his court from all districts\". In Frankish society, only women of the nobility were eligible to compete; this specific trait is highlighted in the \"Regesta Imperii\", where Judith is referred to as stemming from a noble lineage (\"Edlen Geschlecht\"). Contemporary witnesses such as Ermoldus Nigellus, Walahfrid Strabo, and Louis' biographer Thegan attributed Judith's selection to her extraordinary beauty, intelligence, and musical ability. It is just as likely, however, that Louis was attracted to the geographical and political advantages offered by Judith's family. While scholars differ as to whether the Welfs were of Frankish or Alemannian descent, it is clear that they controlled significant territories to the east of the Rhine, and were predominant political actors in both Bavaria and Alemannia. This fact would have made them desirable allies for Louis, since any military campaign in the empire's eastern frontiers would require the emperor to travel through this region. By marrying Judith, in other words, the emperor would effectively gain friends and allies, an important military and political stronghold, and the support of the nobility in that region.\n\nJudith married Louis in 819 in Aachen. It was not uncommon that brides were given some form of dowry upon marrying into royalty. Judith's marriage was no exception to this practice and she received, according to sources, the monastery San Salvatore, which was located in Brescia (in the region of Lombardy in northern Italy). The monastery of San Salvatore and all the assets that fall under its jurisdiction, would fall under the protection with the protection of the King. Although, according to modern sources, the dowry was indicative that the marriage was in fact a \"Vollehe\" (full marriage), it did not mean that the dowry was static, insofar as it would remain solely within the possession of the Queen in perpetuity; rather it could be taken from her depending on the political climate, as would later be the case in Judith's life, after her fall from power and influence.\n\nIn later Carolingian societies the act of coronation was closely tied with the marriage. It was only upon the completion of the marriage that queenhood and thus legitimacy was bestowed. When Louis married his first wife Ermengard in 794, she was crowned and called \"Augusta\", a title that harkens back to the Roman \"Augustus\". This bestowed on Ermengard the title of empress as it would Judith when she married Louis and was \"\"crowned as empress and acclaimed Augusta by all\"\".\n\nHistorical sources show a gap in information available on Judith in the four years between her marriage in 819 and the birth of Charles in 823. The most likely cause of this gap is that Judith would only rise to historical prominence when she became involved in her son's, Charles The Bald, life as an advocate for his career as successor to the throne. However, various sources like the Capitulare de villis and the De ordine palatii of Hincmar of Reims can be drawn upon to provide information on roles and responsibilities that Judith would have most likely played in court. Specifically, the \"Capitulare de villis\" and the \"De ordine palatii\" define the role and consequently the realm of influence of the empress to that of the court. If these documents are indicative of the empress's role in the court and palace in general, then it may be reasonably inferred what roles Judith would have acted in. Sources tell us that Judith's and the steward of the court's (\"Kämmerer\") duties included, among others: caring that she, her servants and the King himself, particularly his jewelry, looked presentable and of appropriate appearance, overseeing the transfer of the yearly tribute (\"Abgabe der Vasallen\") and ensuring that the emperor was free to focus on ruling the kingdom, without distraction of minor details like the court's appearance. It is not to be inferred from this brief sketch, however, that her role was in any sense superfluous and relegated to the realm of aesthetics. She had a working relationship with the \"Kämmerer\" of the court, (the top administrator for the incomes, goods and running of the household), which means that she was in an influential position when it came to the functioning and the running of the court.\n\nIt is not unlikely that, in order to complete these tasks, Judith would have had her own court personnel. This was not an uncommon phenomenon, it having existed according to sources since the time of the Merovingians. Having her own administration was not only instrumentally important in ensuring a smooth running of the court and the daily affairs of the palace, but also a political necessity. The King and Queen were technically seen as a single entity, as is the case in the \"Capitulare de villis\". Her command was therefore no less significant or important than that of the King. However, in time of separation, be it war, sickness or pregnancy, this single ruling couple/entity would be divided. Consequently, when Louis endeavoured on his campaign in 824 against the Bretons or a similar campaign in the same region in 830, Judith would not only have to take care of the running of the courtly society, but also step in as a representative of the King. In this capacity she would come to be involved in the politics of the realm. But she also had other avenues to influence the politics of the realm and the court. It is not unreasonable to consider that she had some influence acting as a counsel woman for her husband. Judith's very position and proximity to the emperor as his wife meant she was in immediate proximity to him and consequently had the ability and opportunity to influence the decisions of her husband. Judith’s role and prominence in court would see a dramatic rise after the birth of her son, as she sought to establish a political and courtly base for Charles, against the threat that Lothar posed for his succession.\n\nJudith had two children with Louis. Her first child was a daughter named Gisela, born in 820. Gisela would eventually be married off by Judith to Eberhard of Friuli, a significant supporter of Lothar. Gisela was the mother of Berengar I.\n\nAfter having spent most of her second pregnancy in Frankfurt, she had another child named Charles, who was born on 13 June 823. More commonly known as \"Charles the Bald\", he would eventually become emperor, following in the footsteps of his father Louis. The birth of Charles had a significant effect on Judith's life, because Charles was the only male heir of Louis' second marriage. His birth put the ordinatio imperii and its designations for successor under question. The \"ordinatio imperii\" outlined that only a full heir could rule, but since there were several viable candidates that met the requirements, (mainly Lothar, Peppin and Louis the German from the marriage to Ermengard and Charles from the marriage to Judith) an eventual strain on rightful succession was inevitable. Consequently, it became of the utmost importance for Judith to secure the throne for her son and protect him from the attacks and threats that his paternal brothers posed. Lothar, being the most prominent and the oldest of Ermengard children, presented the greatest threat to Judith and Charles. Yet, realizing this, Judith selected Lothar as Charles' godfather. This strategic move meant Charles would have a political tie in the eventual disputes succession that would inevitably follow Louis' death.\n\nOn 9 April 817 a timber roof collapsed on Louis and his men in Aachen. The event shocked Louis and led the emperor to reconsider the distribution of his power and succession for his heirs. The \"ordinatio Imperii\" was a reconfiguration and re-imagining of in the division of Charlemagne’s inheritance, which he had always envisioned but never fully implemented. The \"ordinatio imperii\" stated that Louis oldest son Lothar would become co-emperor upon the death of Charlemagne, and would receive the whole of Frankia. It also stated that Lothar's younger brothers, Pippin, aged 19, and Louis the German, aged 10, would inherit Aquitaine and Bavaria respectively (the \"regna\").\n\nA major sticking point that concerned Lothar was Louis’ nineteen-year-old nephew Bernard of Italy getting in the way of his eventual rise to power. Bernard had been ruling Italy since 810. Yet, the \"ordinatio imperii\" did not specify Bernard as the immediate successor and continued ruler of Italy. Consequently, Bernard, alarmed by the fact that his future inheritance was at stake, rose up against Louis. The rebellion was swiftly quelled by Louis’ forces. Bernard was blinded and would eventually die on 17 April 818\n\nThe birth of Charles as well as Lothar’s marriage in 821 meant that two imperial households were now vying for control. The strain over how to interpret the \"ordinatio imperii\" coupled with the fact that Judith would most likely outlive her husband, meant that it became imperative for Judith to establish a political base of her own, not only for her own safety and the continuation of her queenship, but also for the safety of her son.\n\nIn a letter written by Agobard of Lyons to Louis, Agobard articulates the way in which Louis strove to establish an orderly settlement between his four sons. Here we see that Ermengarde's son Lothar is granted more power than Louis' other sons, jeopardising the future of both Judith and Charles:\n\nMost information on Judith surrounds the activities for her son and her attempts to ensure his succession to the throne. Their political futures depended on each other; if Judith were widowed, her future as an empress could potentially be threatened by stepsons that no longer had familial or political concerns for her wellbeing. Outlined in a letter to Pope Nicholas I Judith, upon Charles’s birth, sent a ring to Ebbo, the archbishop of Rheims, asking him to pray for the health of Charles, but also promising that if he ever sent the ring back to her in times of trouble she would help him. Politically this move is significant given that Ebbo was one of the most powerful people in the land and a \"milkbrother\" and friend of Louis. This marks a distinct effort on the part of Judith to bolster her influence and secure the political future of her son.\n\nThe poem by a court poet Ermoldus Nigellus, \"Poem in Honor of Louis\", provides insight into Judith’s influence over her son Charles. The scene describes Judith and Charles interacting while Louis goes on a hunt:\nNot only does this highlight Judith’s role as an influential force in Charles’ life, but it also establishes an ambitious young Charles as a son that follows in the footsteps of his father Louis.\n\nOther poetry by Ermoldus from 826 describes Judith following her son in procession, flanked on either side by the magnates Hugh, count of Tours, and Lothar's father-in-law, and Matfrid, count of Orleans. Given that both magnates had extremely close ties with Lothar, this suggests Judith was already attempting to cultivate Lothar's sympathies and place herself and her son in a politically favourable position, .\n\nThe three sons of Louis the Pious revolted against their father in order to control the ordering of the Carolingian succession. It was Judith's dominance and control of the court, thereby being able to dictate who saw Louis and influence him, that was the focus of their revolt. In order to seize control of the king and consequently the Carolingian succession they had to replace the current court, controlled by Judith, with their own. Judith was accused of having an incestuous relationship with Louis the Pious’s godson, Bernard of Septimania (who was the lynchpin of her court). This led to her capture and exile to Italy at the nunnery of Saint Radegund in 830. After the crisis she returned to Aachen and continued her effort to see that Charles would take control.\n\nGiven Judith's role in court and her rise in power, especially in the waning year of Louis's life, the political ties that Judith had built in court became the political ties of Charles. These included, amongst others, Walahfrid, Lupus of Ferrières, the palace clerics Prudentius, Wenilo and Berno, and the seneschal Adalard.\n\nSeveral marriages in 839 sought to solidify a future for Charles and an entente with Lothar. The first was the marriage of Gisele, the daughter of Louis and Judith, to Eberhard, the duke of Friuli, who was a leading supporter of Lothar. A second such marriage was that between Judith’s brother Conrad with Adelaide, Lothar's sister in law.\n\nJudith also collaborated with the magnates that worked on the will of Louis in order to promote Charles. Fearing that Louis would die before the matter was settled, Judith advised that Louis take to his aid one of his three sons (Pippin, Lothar or Louis) in order to unite Charles and one of the brothers in mutual interest should a revolt happen after Louis's death.\n\nAfter Louis's death Judith helped and assisted Charles in his campaigns against Lothar. She sent troops to assist Charles in his endeavour to secure Aquitaine and the majority of Francia in order to reduce the number of competitors. She also exercised influence over him. When archbishop George was taken prisoner after a battle in which 40,000 men fell on the side of Lothar and Pippin, Judith counselled Charles to be merciful towards the archbishop, which Andreas Agnellus of Ravenna recalled as \"For my part I’ll let you go—as my mother tells me to\".\n\nHowever, the rise of Judith’s power, influence and activity in the court sparked resentment towards her. Agobard of Lyons, a supporter of Lothar, wrote two tracts \"Two Books in Favor of the Sons\" and against \"Judith the Wife of Louis\" in 833. These tracts were meant as propaganda against Judith from the court of Lothar in order to undermine her court and influence. The tracts themselves attack her character, claiming her to be of a cunning and underhanded nature and of corrupting her husband. These attacks were predominantly anti-feminist in nature. When Louis still did not sever marital ties with Judith, Agobard claimed that Judith’s extramarital affairs were carried out \"first secretly and later impudently\". Paschasius Radbertus accused Judith by associating her with the engagement in debauchery and witchcraft. of filling the palace with \"soothsayers... seers and mutes as well as dream interpreters and those who consult entrail, indeed all those skilled in malign craft\".\n\nCharacterized as a Jezebel and a Justina, Judith was accused by one of her enemies, Paschasius Radbertus, of engaging in debauchery and witchcraft with her purported lover, Count Bernard of Septimania, Louis' chamberlain and trusted adviser. This portrayal and image stands in contrast to poems about Judith. The poems depict her as \"a second biblical Judith, a Mary sister of Aaron in her musical abilities, a Saphho, a prophetess, cultivated, chaste, intelligent, pious, strong in spirit, and sweet in conversation\".\n\nHowever, Judith also garnered devotion and respect. Hrabanus Maurus wrote a dedicatory letter to Judith, exalting her \"praiseworthy intellect\" and for her \"good works\". The letter commends her in the turbulent times amidst battles, wishing that she may see victory amidst the struggles she is facing. It also implores her \"to follow through with a good deed once you have begun it\" and \"to improve yourself at all times\". Most strikingly the letter wishes Judith to look to the biblical Queen Esther, the wife of Xerxes I as inspiration and as a role model\n\nJudith was left alone in 830 in Aachen, as Louis decided to undertake a campaign into Brittany. The campaign itself, however, was greatly opposed, because of its difficulties. Some of the magnates attempted to alter the attitudes of the people and turn them against Louis. The plot was to dispose Louis the Pious, \"to destroy their stepmother and kill Bernard\".\n\nPrior to Easter Week in 830 (17–24 April) Pippin, with Lothar's consent, and with a large proportion of the people \"took away from the Emperor his royal power, and also his wife\". Judith was veiled (\"the female equivalent of tonsuring rival claimants to the throne\" and sent to the convent of St Radegund at Poitiers in the same year.\n\nAt an assembly held on 1 October at Nijmegen, between the Emperor, the Saxons and East Franks, it was adjudged, by \"all the bishops, abbots, counts and other Franks\" that Judith, even though she was taken unjustly, should be brought back and made to either stand trial for any crime she may have committed to \"undergo the judgment of the Franks\".\n\nIn 831, around 1 February Judith stood trial at the assembly arranged by the Lord Emperor. At the assembly she \"declared her willingness to purge herself on all the charges levelled against her\". No one was found in the general assembly who wanted to charge her for any crime. She purged herself, by the customs of the Franks, of all the things that she had been accused of.\n\nIn 833 Louis heard news of his sons, Pippin, Lothar and Louis the German, allying in order to orchestrate a revolt against him. Louis failed to prevent the revolt and was overthrown, resulting in Lothar seizing power. For Judith the coup resulted in her exile in Italy at the \"civitas\" of Tortona. Louis spent the next year in Aachen as a captive of Lothar. Pippin and Louis the German, however, condemned the treatment of their father by Lothar and in 834 summoned armies from Aquitaine, Bavarians, Austrasians, Saxons, Alemans and the Franks to rise up against Lothar. Hearing of the vast armies approaching him Lothar fled, leaving his father behind. Louis thus regained control and offered to forgive Lothar for his actions. Lothar, however, scorned the offer. It was during this turbulent political to-and-fro that followers of Louis the Pious who were in Italy, Bishop Ratold, Count Boniface and Pippin among them, heard of a plot to kill Judith. With their help Judith escaped and returned to Aachen in the same year.\n\nLouis died in 840 at his palace in Ingelheim, leaving Judith a widow. She, however, continued to support her son Charles in his military campaigns and endeavours, gathering troops from Aquentine in 841. In April of that same year Charles received his crown and all of his royal attire, which contemporaries of the time herald as a divine act. Most likely, however, Judith was well aware of Charles's location and had sent the royal artifacts to meet up with her son.\n\nCharles married Ermentrude in 842 and fathered a daughter, Judith of Flanders, in 844, named after his mother. This marriage, however, proved futile for Judith's career, power and influence. With the introduction of a new queen Judith became of ex officio importance, resulting in her forced retirement as well as withdrawal of the lands and wealth under her control. Her health began to fail in 842, and she died on 19 April 843 in Tours, outliving her husband by three years, after more than a year of ill health, including coughing and dizziness. It is believed that she was around 46 years of age when she died, her husband had been closer to 62. She was buried at the Basilica of Saint Martin, Tours.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306255", "title": "Chairman of the Presidium of Pridnestrovia", "text": "Chairman of the Presidium of Pridnestrovia\n\nThe Chairman of the Presidium of Pridnestrovia previously led the government of Transnistria from the time of its creation until the government was reorganized in late 1991.\n\nOn 2 September 1990, the Second Congress of People's Deputies from all levels of Transnistrian Government (II съезд народных депутатов всех уровней Приднестровья) proclaimed the creation of the Pridnestrovian Moldovan Soviet Socialist Republic (PMSSR). A fifty-member Provisional Supreme Soviet (legislative body) and an eighteen-member Presidium were elected from the delegates to carry forward Transnistrian sovereignty from the Republic of Moldova.\n\nPoint six of the same resolution that created the Pridnestrovian Moldovan SSR also expressed the will of the delegates that Igor Smirnov, heretofore chairman of the Tiraspol city soviet, lead the Supreme Soviet as its chairman.\n\nWith the passing of the Soviet Union, whose government never recognized the PMSSR as a constituent republic, the now Pridnestrovian Moldovan Republic (PMR) was reorganized into a presidential republic. The Supreme Soviet survived as the legislative organ of government. However, in this new arrangement the Presidium was absent, its powers going to the republic's new executive branch, the office of the president. On 3 December 1991, Igor Smirnov won an election to become president of the PMR. He continued to serve in office until 30 December 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306257", "title": "Hutch Davie", "text": "Hutch Davie\n\nRobert Bunyan Davie III (August 4, 1930 – April 7, 2020), professionally known as Hutch Davie, or Bob \"Hutch\" Davie, and sometimes credited as Bun Davie, Budd McCoy, Clint Harmon or Chuck Harmon, was an orchestra leader, arranger, pianist, and composer of popular music. He composed the song \"Green Door\", and led the orchestra which backed Jim Lowe on the best-selling version of the song in 1956.\n\nDavie was born in Birmingham, Alabama, the only child of Bunyan Davie Jr. and Louise McCoy. He was a musical prodigy and taught himself to play the piano by the age of four. He had perfect pitch and expressed his distaste for music that was not in tune while still too young to articulate what was wrong with it. At the age of five he started attending the Birmingham Conservatory of Music. After high school, he attended Louisiana State University but refused to comply with a sports requirement and dropped out after a year.\n\nHe moved to New York City and started working for NBC at the age of twenty. He married a model, Mary Elizabeth Pfaff, and entered the music business. His first big success was the song \"Green Door\" in 1956, which he arranged and on which he played piano. The record achieved BMI Million-air status (a million radio and television performances in the United States). With record producer Bob Crewe, he also arranged Santo and Johnny's hit \"Sleep Walk\", and in 1958 had a #51 chart hit, as \"Hutch Davie and his Honky Tonkers\", with his version of Woody Herman's \"Woodchopper's Ball\". As a pianist he recorded jazz standards with his band the Honky Tonkers, and an album featuring his solo playing, \"Piano Memories\", was issued in 1958.\n\nHe produced and arranged Linda Scott's three big hits on Canadian-American Records: \"I've Told Ev'ry Little Star\", \"Don't Bet Money Honey\", and \"I Don't Know Why\". He also produced and arranged the Angels' \"'Til\" and \"Cry Baby Cry\" and James Ray's \"If You Gotta Make A Fool Of Somebody\" on Caprice Records, a subsidiary of Canadian-American. \nAs a songwriter, record producer and director of A&R, he also worked with such artists as Shirley Ellis, Patty Duke, Lesley Gore, Ellie Greenwich, and Frankie Valli and the Four Seasons. He was the arranger on the Bob Crewe Generation’s song \"Music to Watch Girls By\" in 1967, for which he was nominated for a Grammy. He also worked with Oliver on the songs \"Good Morning Starshine\" and \"Jean\", The Shirelles, and Mitch Ryder and the Detroit Wheels, among many others.\n\nIn 1974, he moved to Scotch Plains, New Jersey with his wife and son.\n\nDavie died on April 7, 2020 in West Orange, New Jersey, at age 89.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306261", "title": "Omar Naber", "text": "Omar Naber\n\nOmar Kareem Naber (born 7 July 1981) is a Slovenian singer, songwriter and guitar player. He first represented Slovenia at the Eurovision Song Contest 2005 in Kyiv with the song \"Stop\" and for a second time at the Eurovision Song Contest 2017 in Kyiv with the song \"On My Way\", but failed to qualify to the final on both occasions.\n\nNaber was born on 7 July 1981 in Ljubljana, SR Slovenia, then still part of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. His father, Samir Naber originates from Jordan, and is a dentist by profession working in Ljubljana. His mother, Alenka Naber, is a Slovenian and works as a piano teacher. Like his parents, he was raised Christian. He finished high school diploma as a dental technician and even did six months internship, but soon realized that this is not what he really wants to do in his life. He is actively involved in music since the age of 16, when he joined Veter (Wind), a mixed choir of Ljubljana high schools. The main inspiration for him becoming a musician was because of Green Day. \n\nIn 1999 he founded a rock band, with some member changes over the years, but the band is still playing today. He had over 800 gigs with his band in total and another hundred at charity events. \n\nIn 2001 he took second place at the local song contest ‘Kdo bo osvojil Triglav’ (who will come on the top of Triglav) and immediately signed a contract with Slovenian label Nika Records.\n\nAfter he signed a contract he performed as back vocalist for various Slovenian artists in studio sessions and live performances. He appeared in different albums for D.D.V., for Saša Vrtnar (‘Persona Non Grata’), for Rok'n'band (‘Elvis je živ’) etc.\n\nIn late 2004 Naber won \"Bitka talentov\", the Slovenian version of the \"Battle of the talents\" and became nationwide recognized. This year he also recorded his first song and video \"Vse kar si želiš\" (Anything you want), released as single and on his \"Omar\" album next year. \n\nAs a winner of this battle, he performed and won at the EMA 2005 Slovenian national entry for Eurovision. He participated in the Eurovision Song Contest 2005 with song \"Stop\" (in Slovene), a song he had composed himself. He failed to qualify to the final however, finishing in 12th place with 69 points. \n\nHis first album \"Omar\" was also released in 2005. He spent 2006 touring Slovenia, as well as internationally, and eventually went back to the studio to record his second album with his band Kareem. This second album, named \"Kareem\", was released in 2007.\n\nIn 2011, Naber was sentenced to serve seven months in prison for sexually assaulting a woman in a Ljubljana club.\n\nIn 2014, he first released his third album \"Na glavo\" in Slovenia, along with its English version \"No Helmet\" a couple of months later in England.\n\nHe won the latest national selection and became the second time the national representative for Slovenia in the Eurovision Song Contest 2017 with the song \"On My Way\". However again he failed to Qualify for the final finishing 17th (Second to last) with 36 points in the first semi-final.\n\nHe entered the national selection for Slovenia three more times and one more time for Switzerland, not proceeding to the main contest: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306263", "title": "Brehon", "text": "Brehon\n\nBrehon ( - IPA ' or ') is a term for a historical arbitration, mediative and judicial role in Gaelic culture. Brehons were part of the system of Early Irish law, which was also simply called \"Brehon law\". Brehons were judges, close in importance to the chiefs.\n\nIreland's indigenous system of law dates from the Iron Age. Known as Brehon law, it developed from customs which had been passed on orally from one generation to the next. Brehon law was administered by brehons. They were similar to judges, though their role was closer to that of arbitrators. Their task was to preserve and interpret the law.\n\nIn the history of the Kingdom of Dublin, the Gaelic Irish recaptured the City from the Norse Vikings after the Battle of Tara. Dublin was officially founded in 988 when the Norse King Glúniairn first recognised Máel Sechnaill mac Domnaill as the High King of Ireland, he also agreed to pay taxes and accept Brehon law. The city celebrated its millennium in 1988 to mark 1000 years from its founding. Even though this event was seen as the first recorded establishment of the City, evidence exists of other settlements on the River Liffey prior to this event, one being Viking known as Dyflin and the other Gaelic Irish known as Átha Cliath (Ford of Hurdles).\n\nA Megalithic site exists in Rathfarnham, County Dublin, known as Brehon's Chair or Druid's Table. It is believed to be the seat of judgement for the Archdruid in prehistoric times.\n\nThe brehons of ancient Ireland were wise individuals who memorised and applied the laws to settle disputes among members of an extended family. Some brehons were attached to clans, and were allotted a portion of land for their support. Others lived independently by their profession. They were recognised as a professional class apart from druids and bards, and became, by custom, to a large extent hereditary. The term ‘bard’ is associated with a Brehon family of poets, called Mac an Bháird (Son of the Bard). They were one of the descendants of the ancient tribes of Soghain in the Kingdom of Uí Maine.\n\nIn ancient Ireland, Brehons, as part of the leading members of society, would take part in an event which took place every three years on Samhain known as Feis Teamhrach (Festival of Tara) in the House of the Banquets (Teach Moidhchuarta) at the Hill of Tara. The assembly was also originally referred to as an Aonach in prehistoric times. It was a national event with the purpose of resolving any regional disputes regarding title to rank, property and privilege. They would be settled by the lawmakers, the Brehons, and all annals and records would be carefully noted and entered by the Ard Ollams in the official records. The event was founded in a very early period and lasted until 560 AD when the last assembly was held by King Dermot, son of Fergus.\n\nThe preparatory course of study extended over some twenty years. The Brehon laws were originally composed in poetic verse to aid memorisation. Brehons were liable for damages if their rulings were incorrect, illegal or unjust. When one brehon had adjudicated on a matter submitted to him, there could be no appeal to another brehon of the same rank; but there might be an appeal to a higher court, provided the appellant gave security. The ranking of a brithem was based on his skill, and on whether he knew all three components of law: traditional law, poetry, and (added later) canon law.\n\nIn Prechristian Medieval Ireland prior to the earliest written manuscript. Law was practised by hereditary judges known as bards or fili, who passed on information orally down the generations, they held the positions of Ollam to a provincial High king or rí.\n\nIn pre-Norman times, it was the King who passed judgement, when necessary, following recitation of applicable law and advice from the Brehon.\n\nWhile originating in oral legal history, it is a common belief that Brehon law enacted the first piece of copyright legislation in relation to written text in world legal history. It involved a bitter dispute around 561 AD between Saint Colmcille and Saint Finian over the authorship of a manuscript called \"St Jerome’s Psalter\". Despite the enactment of the law by the king, a bloody conflict still took place known as Battle of Cúl Dreimhne, which resulted in many deaths.\n\nOne of the main responsibilities of a Brehon was to record the genealogies of the people. One of the most notable Brehons associated with recording genealogies was the Clan Mac Fhirbhisigh. Dubhaltach Mac Fhirbhisigh produced Leabhar na nGenealach, also the abridgment version Cuimre na nGenealach and Great Book of Lecan. The genealogist would also be referred to in old Irish as a Seanchaidhe. The basic family unit under brehon law in ancient Ireland was defined as Derbfine, or ‘True Kin’ in English Another Brehon family noted for recording genealogies were the Ó Cléirigh, such as Mícheál Ó Cléirigh, the author of the Annals of the Four Masters.\n\nIn 2000 controversial Irish Lawyer Vincent Salafia founded the Brehon Law Project, to promote the academic study of Brehon Law. The courses were formed to aid the funding of the translation of early Irish Law manuscripts and to make the study of Ancient Irish Law available for academic scholarship.\n\nSeveral dozen families were recognised as hereditary brehon clans.\n\nWithin the bardic tradition, a poetic genre developed during the 17th century known as the Aisling, it was a political form of poetry based on a vision or a dream, the poems invariably involved the visitation of a lady like figure sometimes carrying a message or prophecy and symbolically representing Ireland. The first fully developed Aisling was produced by Aodhagán Ó Rathaille who was related to the Brehons who served as Ollamhs to the Mac Cárthaigh Mór family. Aodhagán Ó Rathaille attended one of the last bardic schools in Killarney before all these ancient Gaelic bardic institutions where suppressed towards the end of the 17th century, the Aisling replaced the Dán Díreach, an older style of poetry that came to an end with destruction of Gaelic society. He is said to have been a bridge between the old world in which he was educated and the new one in which the professional poet had no place. He wrote in the new metres but preserved the attitudes of a previous age.\n\nOther notable classifications of Aisling poetry or sometimes in the form of musical lyrics in Irish history and culture include Róisín Dubh, Mná na hÉireann, Aisling Óenguso(The Dream of Óengus), in his dream Aengus sees the most beautiful woman in Eriu standing next to his bed, The Song of Wandering Aengus, an old man sees a silver trout transform into glimmering girl before vanishing, The Vision of Adamnán, it was said the Cáin Adomnáin(Law of Innocents) was prompted by Adomnáin’s Aisling or Vision of his mother, instructing him to protect women and children against harm and \"Aisling an Óigfhir\" (\"The Young Man's Dream\"), which later influenced the tune of The Last Rose of Summer, some historians have suggested it formed the origins of the tune used for Londonderry Air. Aisling an Óigfhir first appeared in Edward Bunting’s collection, The Ancient Music of Ireland.\n\nThe salmon fish has a significant importance in Irish mythology and folklore. The Salmon of Knowledge features in stories in Lebor Gabala Erenn and the Annals of the Four Masters.\n\nOne story states that Fionn Mac Cumhaill, a great warrior, received great knowledge or “fios” by devouring the flesh of a salmon. According to the legend the salmon had eaten from a hazel tree that surrounded the Well of Segais. By this act the salmon gained all the world’s knowledge. The first person to eat its flesh, in turn, would gain this knowledge.\n\nThe salmon is also connected mythologically to the Celtic Otherworld and the tales of the Sidhe. Symbolically it can exist in two worlds, one being the freshwater rivers and also in the otherworld being in the saltwater of the sea. There is a story mentioned in the Annal of the four Masters about Tuan mac Cairill, who is said to have lived during the age of the Patholónians. He had the supernatural ability to shape-shift into different forms of creature, the final form being a salmon, just before being eaten by the wife of a chieftain called Cairill, who later gave birth to him as human once again. He lived for several thousand years in numerous different reincarnations as animals and seen through their eyes the coming of the different ages and invaders throughout Irish history, right up to the dawning of the Christian age. He was known as the ‘seer’ or the storehouse of knowledge of Irish history. Fintan mac Bóchra also transformed into a salmon in a place now known as Fintan's Grave near Lough Derg, he arrived with the first settlers in Ireland, the Cessairians.\n\nThe revival of the Brehon laws proved crucial in the twentieth century in the case of Kildoney fishermen caught poaching salmon between the Assaroe Falls and River Erne tidal estuary. It was one of the longest running and complex cases in the country's history. Fishing rights on the river estuary were under the ownership of the Erne Fishing Company, originally owned by a landowner, and this had been the case for three centuries since the introduction of the common law legal system. Natives or locals of Ballyshannon were legally restricted from benefiting or fishing in the river tidal estuary which was teeming with salmon. One of the most notable previous owners of the Erne Fishing Company was a landowner called William Conolly, he was also known for building the cursed Hellfire club on top of already existing ancient sacred cairn on Montpelier hill.\n\nIn 1925 six local fishermen from Kildoney were arrested poaching in broad daylight. Many believe it was deliberate provocation in order to legally challenge or contest legitimacy of the legal status quo at that time. They were caught by an Erne Fishing company patrol boat, the subsequent court case proved to be the longest in the countries history and ultimately the courts examined interpretations of the Brehon laws, which proved to be key in deciding the final verdict.\n\nIt considered the legal rights of individuals to fish not just in terms of the then existing common law system but also from Magna Carta before it and then even further back to Ancient Gaelic laws. Two of the leading scholarly authorities in Brehon law at that time, Eoin MacNeill and D.A. Binchy were called on to give evidence on behalf the Kildoney Fishermen. Eoin MacNeill and Binchy produced extracts from the Senchas Mar as evidence in trial. In Ancient Ireland everyone had equal rights to fish within the boundaries of any individual Tuatha or Petty State, ‘aé áite’ or ‘the salmon of the place’, under the old system there was no evidence of individuals or groups having sole ownership to the exclusion of all others. At the trial MacNeill and Binchy also supported their case with the ancient tract ‘Do Fastad Cirt ocus Dligid’ or ‘Of the Confirmation of Right and Law’. It was the first court case to be decided on interpretation of the Brehon laws in over three centuries.\n\nThis particular case was seen as a significant landmark in the Sovereignty of the modern Irish state. The owner of Erne Fishery Company, called Robert Lyon Moore attempted to appeal the decision of the Irish courts to the Privy council in London. The government at the time promptly passed legislation that abolished any right to appeal on any decisions made in courts in Ireland to the Privy council in London, which became to be deemed outside the jurisdiction of the state. A Fianna Fail government brought in the Constitution Act in 1933 just after the completion of the case in July 1933.\n\nAccording to Brehon Law, craftsmen were regarded with great respect in pre-Christian Ireland. Irish mythology mentions \"Trí Dée Dána\" (three gods of art) Creidhne, Goibniu and Luchtaine, all part of Tuatha Dé Danann. An artist was afforded the same privileges as the lowest noble. This tradition and respect for people of craft was carried on into the Christian age, which can be seen by the artisanry exhibited and associated with the founding monasteries. The Triads of Ireland mentions three chief artisans of Ireland. Assicus or Tassac was assigned to Saint Patrick, Conleth to Saint Brigid and Daig to Ciarán of Saigir. Their skills were so highly regarded that they became saints themselves.\n\nOne of the most notable of these craftsmen was Saint Assicus, who became the first Bishop of Elphin. He came from druidic family lineage but converted to Christianity, as was the case with many of the earliest Irish Saints, with the advent of Christianity. Artefacts such as Cross of Cong, The Aghadoe Crosier and Shrine of Manchan of Mohill have been associated with a workshop linked to Saint Assicus in Elphin. Many believe Saint Assicus is actually the same person as Saint Tassac. Saint Tassac of Raholp had a similar trade. He was the metalworker who decorated the first-ever Christian church in Ireland, established by Saint Patrick near present-day Downpatrick, called the Church of Raholp in Saul. The church started out as an old barn donated by a local Druid chieftain called Dichu.\n\nThe ancient law of succession or Tanistry has its origins in Brehon law. It was a Gaelic custom where legally the eldest son (Tánaiste) succeeded his father to exclusion of all collateral claimants. In terms of land inheritance it was a similar system to Gavelkind in ancient Ireland. In the case of failure of the presumptive heir or eldest to the throne, other sons were regarded as ‘righdhamhua’ which means 'king material' or 'King in the making'.\n\nAccording to Adomnán, life of Columba, it states when selecting a capable king for Dál Riada, Saint Columba acted in accordance with the Law of the Tanistry when he deselected the then Tánaiste, a feeble prince, Eoganán in favour of his younger brother Áedhán, both sons of Gabrán mac Domangairt. Áedhán had trained at the institute of Iona. Saint Columba sate him on the ‘stone of fate’, he solemnly anointed him King of the Scottish Dal Riada, it was said to be the first known example of an ordination in Britain and Ireland.\n\nTowards the end of the 13th century, elements of native Irish Brehon law through necessity were incorporated into the English common law in the areas of The Pale; it was referred to as March Law. King Edward I of England, had a need at that time to divert much-needed resources from Ireland, to concentrate on conflicts elsewhere. As a result, English settlers, especially outside of the Pale, began to develop Irish customs and manner of dress and become accustomed to the native Brehon law.\n\nIts popularity among what were known as the ‘Old English (Pre-Reformation)’ in Ireland would become a source of concern for future English monarchs and ultimately accumulated in King Edward III later enforcing the Statutes of Kilkenny in 1366 to counteract its growing popularity among his own subjects in Ireland.\n\nA high-profile example of Old English descent in favour of Ancient Irish law/Custom happened during the period of the reformation, an Archbishop of Armagh and Primate, George Cromer was found to have applied Brehon Law in granting an Éraic of 340 cows to the Earl of Kildare due to his foster brother's death. As a result of George Cromer's act of insubordination he was defrocked by King Henry VIII. Only to be later pardoned during Queen Mary I era.\n\nBretha Dein Chécht, is an ancient medical law tract first appeared in Senchas Már. It relates to a judgement made by Dian Cecht, a physician to the Tuatha de Danann. It offers a detailed account of compensations for wounding depending on the nature of the injury, its severity and what part of the body. Much of the translation work of this old Irish manuscript is attributed to the 20th-century scholar D.A. Binchy, who first published his findings in the Eriu journal.\n\nIn pre-Christian Ireland legend the first ever hospital was Bhrionbherg (House of Sorrows), set up by Macha Mong Ruadh, a legendary Irish Queen, at Emain Macha (Navan Fort), an ancient ruler of the five Kingdoms of Tara and also the daughter of Áed Rúad. Other hospitals spread to all the other kingdoms; these institutes would later be carried on by monks, as parts of monasteries during the Christian times. Brehon law laid down a medical code of ethics on regulations and management for treatment of the sick and wounded, and also details of patient entitlements, compensations and fees.\n\nBretha Crólige (Binchy, 1938) was also part of this law tract; it highlights obligations in the event of an injury to person. The cost of maintenance and entitlements to the injured party are carefully laid out in the tract. This particular law tract highlighted the fact that Druids' sick maintenance was exactly the same as a Bóaire (ordinary freeman), regardless of status.\n\nCain Aigillne deals with a system of laws in regards to clientship and livestock farming. Covered in this manuscript is the treatment of cattle and also of domestic animals. The law tract describes a wide variety of domestic pet animals that people kept in pre-Christian Ireland, many would be deemed as unconventional domestic pets to keep nowadays, the list included crows, ravens, cranes, badgers, wolves, foxes and others.\n\nEarly Irish literature and Brehon law depicts a tenderness towards animals was characteristic of Irish people. When cattle were taken on a long journey, they were fed at intermediate stations along the route with food and water. Brehon laws also had penalties for injury or theft offences against domestic animals such as cats, dogs, cattle and horses.\n\nAccording to Senchas Mor the third most popular pet in Pre-Christian Ireland after cats and dogs was the crane (Peata Corr). In pagan times, the druids saw cranes as the heavenly transporters of the human soul to isles in the west. Some suggest fires were lit under a migration flight path of the now extinct in Ireland, Grús at Dun Aonghasa. The fort is associated with the Aengus the foster son of Midir who is said to have owned three mystical magical cranes.\n\nThis pre-Christian custom of adopting unusual native animals as pets was carried on by some of the Irish abbots into the Christian age. Saint Columba was also commonly known as the ‘crane cleric’ as he kept a pet crane in his home on the Island of Iona, In the book of kells there is a depiction of a bald red patch on a cranes crown. Saint Ciarán of Clonmacnoise owned a pet Fox (Sionnach), Saint Brendan of Clonfert had a pet Raven (préchán), Saint Brigid adopted and offered sanctuary to a boar, Saint Colman mac Duagh had a pet Rooster that also served as an alarm clock and Saint Colman of Templeshambo owned a flock of sacred ducks, that were so tame they came and went at his call.\n\nNumerous myths associated with different invaders in Irish mythology exist as to the origins of Brehon Law. In Milesian folklore, \"The Scholar's Primer\" describes the first Brehon or lawgiver as being Caí Caínbrethach (\"Fair-Judgement\"), he fostered and was a mentor to a Son of Mil known as Amorghain Glúngheal, who later would become Chief Ollamh of Ireland and he also was said to be the 72nd disciple of the school of Fénius Farsaid. Caí in legend, first arrived in Ireland in the company of the Mil Espaine on board a ship, during the Milesian conquest of Ireland.\n\nThe word \"Cáin\" in old Irish translates to \"law\" in English. Some of the earliest Brehon or Gaelic legislation was associated with the word such as Cáin Lanamna (Law of Couples) or Cáin Adomnáin (Law of Innocents), a Christian law passed by the Synod of Birr in the ancient Territory of Eile. Brehon law came under two categories, Cáin and Urradas. Cáin Law broadly applied to entire tribes, regions, all under a High King. Urradas law was at a more local level.\n\nThe character known as Kay in Medieval Welsh text is said to be based on Caí Caínbrethach.\n\nThe first volume of The Law of Distress (Athgabdla) was published in a Harleian Manuscript in 1865 and the second in 1869. It deals with ancient legal issues of Seizure by distraint of property for the satisfaction of debt, also laws related fosterage, tenure and social connections.\nIn the law tract Cetharslicht Athgabdla, it states that three noble tribes passed a judgement at a Dál-Criche (territorial assembly) and divided Ireland between them. A Dál was similar to an Aonach, in that it refers to a ritual annual gathering of legislators at a fixed site of ceremonial importance in order, to among other rituals, collectively pass laws. In Connacht the most famous of these sites was in Cruachan near Tulsk, site of the kings of Connacht, it contains a large number of Ráth, Barrows, Mounds and Earthworks. In Old Irish the word ‘Dál’ means assembly or conferring, for example in its modern irish form, ‘Dáil Éireann’ translates to Assembly of Ireland. Dál was also associated with the old Irish word of Tulach (Hillock), which represented the place where ancient druidic ceremonial gatherings took place, it was usually a burial mound. Some place names derive from the word, such as Tullamore, Tullow or Tullynadal (Tulach na dála) in Donegal which translates as 'a mustering place'.\n\nNumerous categories or levels of assembly, at which laws were passed existed in ancient Ireland, the highest was the Feis Temrach at Tara (National level), Aonach (National or Regional), Dál (Túath Sept Nobles), Cuirmtig (Túath members) and finally a Tocomra, where a Túath elected their own Taoiseach and Tánaiste. The main purpose of these gatherings was to promulgate and reaffirm the laws. The Chief Ollamh of Ireland coordinated the Feis at Tara, Ard Ollamh at Regional and Ollamh at a Tuath level.\n\nThe earliest reference in the Senchas Már to the reading of the law of Athgabdla at an assembly, took place at the Hill of Uisneach, just before the eve of Bealtaine about a hundred years before the birth of Christ, a uniform law of distraint passed for the whole of Ireland was adopted on the motion of Sen, son of Aigé. This did not prevent the gatherings at Uisneach from being for ages celebrated for gaiety and amusement.\n\nIts unknown when the first rudiments of Brehon Law were first practised, some suggest as far back as the Iron Age. With it being orally practised, not many documented writings were produced prior to the Christian age. Some information was later passed on and translated or pieced together from the oldest surviving manuscripts by the endeavours of Christian Monks, much of it was in the form of myth and poetry.\n\nOne of the earliest mythical references to a judgement of a Brehon was following the second Battle of Moytura. The then king of the Tuatha de Danann, Lugh consulted with Maeltine, his Brehon on the capture of Bres, ex-king and a defector to the Formorians. Lugh agreed to spare Bris's life, if he ensured that Irish cows give milk in abundance, by teaching the people of the Tuatha de Danann agriculture.\n\nThe second Battle of Moytura was not the first ever documented mythical judgement by Brehon, According to Lebor Gabála the first-ever recorded case involved a dispute between Partholón and his adulterous wife, Dealgnaid, a Brehon was said to have adjudicated a settlement between both parties.\n\nIn the Lebor Gabála Érenn, it describes a famous mythical Brehon judge known as Morann Mac Máin (son of Cairbre Cinnchait), who was the Chief Ollam to High King Feradach Finnfechtnach. Morann would wear a Brehon Sín or collar, which was said to contract around his neck when he gave a false judgement and would then only loosen once he made a just one. He is also known in the Ogam Tract for creating one of the three Bríatharogam, used to interpret the Ogham alphabet. In Ancient Irish law, the Ogham carved stones on a piece of land represented the underpinning of legal ownership to that land.\n\nMorann is also associated with the manuscript Audacht Morainn (The Testament of Morann), a medieval old Irish wisdom literature which gave advice to a prospective or future king. It was produced as a piece of insight for Feradach Finnfechtnach, just before he was made a high king. There are five known compositions of this genre in Old Irish, most notably Tecosca Cormaic or Bríathra Flainn Fína mac Ossu, although Audacht Morainn is the oldest. It is officially seen by many to be the forerunner to the 9th century Mirrors for princes, which was produced by an Irish Christian monk called Sedulius Scottus.\n\nThe first ever attempt at transferring Brehon law into written code or legal text was carried out under the patronage of King Cormac mac Airt. He produced the Book of Achall or Aicill, written between 227 and 266 AD, which relates mainly to criminal law. Cormac is said to have retired to the mound of Aicill, in what is now called Skreen near Tara and started working on the book.\n\nAnother later significant document was Senchas Már or Fénechus Law (that which relates to the Féine), drafted around 438 AD by a select committee of nine, presided over by Saint Patrick. Senchas Már is mostly associated with ancient Civil law, selective parts of pre-Christian Irish law that were deemed non-compatible to the teachings of the new Christian age were excluded by the committee from the final written tract. Dubthach maccu Lugair was the judge or Brehon chosen by St Patrick, as part of the committee of three kings, three bishops and three professors of literature, poetry and law, in the creation of Senchas Már.\n\nThe earliest tracts were produced in the oldest archaic form of Irish dialect known as 'Bérla Féine’, some also suggest the written text to be an ancient poetic legal dialect of Dubthach. According to Irish myth the \"Feine\" were descendants of a legendary figure known as Fénius Farsaid, who is said to have created the ancient language \"Bérla Féne\". These early manuscripts proved a difficult challenge for centuries after to translate for future academics and even to later Brehons. Only in the seventeenth century did Irish Gaelic scholars such as Eugene O'Curry and John O'Donovan manage to translate much of these original text, but only due to a life-long study.\n\nBerla Fene was one of the five extensions of the Goídelc language; it was known as the legal dialect or dark speech of the Filí and the Brehon. The 7th-century manuscript Auraicept na n-Eces or \"Scholars Primer\" describes the mythical origins of the Ollav, 72 named linguistic scholars who had assisted Fenius Farsaid, later asked him to select from all the languages, and develop a tongue that nobody else should have but which might belong to them alone. Fenius created Berla Tobaide and later commanded Gaedheal son of Eathor or Goídel mac Ethéoir to set about arranging and regulate into five dialects and name them all after himself. Berla Fene makes up the corpus of the earliest written manuscripts and proved the most challenging to translate in the Christian Era.\n\nThe first detailed scientific study of Ancient Irish Law tracts took place in the 20th century. A comprehensive study of difficult Old Irish law texts was carried out by German Celticist Rudolf Thurneysen, English linguist Charles Plummer and Irish Historian Eoin Mac Neill.\n\nOne of the more unusual tracts in Brehon law was known as the Bee Judgment (Bech Bretha). In the twenty page manuscript it goes into great detail about legal entitlements or ownership of a swarm (faithche), hives, nests or honey found on a piece of land or property, discovered by a finder or property/land owner and also a detailed compensation scheme for victims of bee stings.\n\nHoney was considered of great value at a time before the advent of sugar cane. It had many applications such as basting meat while roasting, treating salmon while broiling, also used as an ingredient in lard and drinks. One of the more important Celtic customs was in the production of mead (fermenting of honey with water), in medieval times the alcoholic drink had mystical and religious qualities, a noted example was Lindisfarne Mead, produced by the Celtic Monks on Holy Island. The word ‘mither’ derives from the mether, which is a mead drinking vessel. People are said to get ‘confused and bothered as a result of too much mead’.\n\nMead is also associated with the wife of Ailill and Sovereignty Queen, Medb. In Pagan times, Brehon law states that before a new High King can be inaugurated they must first accept an alcoholic drink in form of Mead off the Queen of the Land, and thus become intoxicated by her.\n\nBrigh Brigaid, also spelled as Briugaid or Brughaidh, (flourished circa CE 50, Ireland) was a woman who held office as a brehon, or judge, in Ireland in the 1st century CE. Brigh is mentioned in the Senchus Mór, a compendium of the ancient laws of Ireland, and her decisions were cited as precedents for centuries after her death. Her name is possibly associated to the Celtic Pagan Goddesses, who had a strong connection with the bardic traditions. She was known as the “great brig” or brigit, an honored brehon women who is said to have healed a fellow judge, Sencha mac Ailella blotched face by correcting his biased judgement against women.\n\nThe gradual decline of Brehon law began during the Norman conquest, it continued to co-existed with an imposed legal system from the 12th century onwards. It was only in the middle seventeenth century efforts were made to completely suppress it out of existence in favour of the colonial common law system, which has remained the official legal system right up to the present day. In the late 17th century it was deemed a serious criminal offence to be found in possession of old Irish law book and often punishable by transportation to penal servitude.\n\nIt was only in the middle 19th century when two scholarly Church of Ireland Clergymen called James Henthorn Todd and Charles Graves, a professor of Trinty College, he was the Grandfather of another Gaelic Scholar Robert Graves persuaded the British Government to set up a Brehon Law Commission in 1852 in order to save the ancient law text. Native Irish Scholars Eugene O'Curry and John O’Donovan were employed by the commission to translate old law manuscripts.\n\nBrehons had a tradition of providing bardic Schools, from pre-Christian times up until middle of the seventeenth century. They provided education in Irish language, literature, history and Brehon law. These scholarly institutions facilitated up to what amounted to university education. They had a history of producing an abundance of Poets and Bard's. The imposition of Penal law, Popery Act combined with the first Cromwellian regime saw the suppression of these native educational institutions. As a result, secret hedge schools began to appear up until the Penal laws ended.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306270", "title": "Belle of Louisville", "text": "Belle of Louisville\n\nBelle of Louisville is a steamboat owned and operated by the city of Louisville, Kentucky, and moored at its downtown wharf next to the Riverfront Plaza/Belvedere during its annual operational period. Originally named \"Idlewild\", she was built by James Rees & Sons Company in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, for the West Memphis Packet Company in 1914 and was first put into service on the Allegheny River. Constructed with an all-steel superstructure and asphalt main deck, the steamboat is said to hold the all-time record in her class for miles traveled, years in operation, and places visited. \"Belle of Louisville\"s offices are aboard \"Mayor Andrew Broaddus\", also a National Historic Landmark.\n\n\"Idlewild\" operated as a passenger ferry between Memphis, Tennessee, and West Memphis, Arkansas. She also hauled cargo such as cotton, lumber, and grain. She then came to Louisville in 1931 and ran trips between the Fontaine Ferry amusement park near downtown Louisville and Rose Island, a resort about upriver from Louisville. \"Idlewild\" operated a regular excursion schedule from 1934 through World War II, during which she was outfitted with special equipment to push oil barges along the river. She also served as a floating USO nightclub for troops stationed at military bases along the Mississippi River.\n\nIn 1947, she was sold to J. Herod Gorsage, and honoring the death-bed wish of Master Ben Winters, long time captain of \"Idlewild\", was renamed \"Avalon\". Over the next few years, \"Avalon\" visited ports all along the Mississippi, Missouri, St. Croix, Illinois, Kanawha, Ohio, and Cumberland Rivers. Her many stops included Omaha, Nebraska; Stillwater, Minnesota; Montgomery, West Virginia; and Nashville, Tennessee.\n\nBy 1962, \"Avalon\" had fallen into disrepair, and might have seen the end of her days, when Jefferson County Judge Marlow Cook bought her at an auction for $34,000 in hopes of restoring the city's connection to the waterfront. The relationship between the city of Louisville and its beloved waterfront had begun to dwindle over the years due to the advancement in automobiles and the building of the elevated I-64 roadway, but the purchase of the steamboat that had a wealth of history with the city was the perfect solution. She came to Louisville and was re-christened \"Belle of Louisville\".\n\nThe purchase of \"Belle of Louisville\" sparked the beginning of multiple attempts to reform the relationship between the city of Louisville and the river on which it was located. Some of these efforts include the creation of the Belvedere, an elevated outdoor space that overlooks the Ohio River, and the nationally recognized Waterfront Park that stretches along a portion of the river.\n\nThe restoration of the boat was supervised by marine architect Alan L. Bates (now Captain Bates), whose book, \"Str. Belle of Louisville\", (1964) remains a primary source on the history of the boat and the crews who worked on her.\n\nPrior to the auction, the hull had been condemned as unfit by the U.S. Coast Guard: concrete patches had added much weight to the oft-damaged hull, as had generations of accumulated modifications to the decks and fittings within her superstructure. These were stripped and repaired in dry dock or removed by volunteers.\n\nWhat remained was cleaned, surface prepared, supplied with new finish carpentry, and painted in a style consistent with the boat's early 20th-century origins.\n\nCaptain Clarke \"Doc\" Hawley, had worked aboard the boat during her \"Avalon\" days. He had salvaged the brass nameplates from the ends of the two massive cylinders in order to prevent them from being sold for scrap, and now he returned them to the boat. Hawley had also, before the auction, at his own cost hired an assistant to drain the boat's water-filled fittings for winter, so that they would not freeze and burst. This meant that the mechanical restoration of the boat was now possible, at far less cost than had extensive refitting of ruined pipe work been necessary.\n\nVarious of her workings, though not her engine and drive train, had been stripped and sold in separate lots at auction, including the boat's original steam calliope.\n\nVolunteers donated materials which could be adapted to use. Some of them, such as brass steam-powered bilge clearing pumps known as siphons, were cannibalized from sunken steamboats whose hulls could still be seen and dived at low water. Some missing components were custom-fabricated by local foundries in a style copied from photos of the boat in her earlier days. The degree of preservation was considerable, and the boat is still piloted with a 19th-century skill set, though now with the assistance of modern communications.\n\nAlthough authentic to its core, the boat has occasionally seen improvements not part of the original restoration. The compressed-air driven calliope which replaced the missing original proved unsatisfying, and was ultimately replaced with the true steam calliope which the boat uses today, audible for many blocks in the surrounding Downtown Louisville area when the boat is readying to depart. The new calliope was built by Morecraft Manufacturing of Peru, Indiana and installed in 1988. The instrument is a reproduction of the Nichol instrument that the boat carried when named \"Avalon\".\n\nThe ship's bow was also redesigned by Bates in the late 1960s, to make the boat a better contender in the Great Steamboat Race: the original, blunter bow at maximum speeds showed the tendency for waves to break over it.\n\nOn April 30, 1963, \"Belle of Louisville\" made her first cruise in a race against the steamboat \"Delta Queen\". That race was the beginning of an unparalleled river tradition. To this day, \"Belle of Louisville\" and another competing steamboat, previously the \"Delta Queen\", still square off every year on the Wednesday before the Kentucky Derby in the Kentucky Derby Festival event The Great Steamboat Race.\nThousands of spectators line both sides of the river to watch the race: on the first occasion of the running of the race, attendance exceeded that of the Kentucky Derby the same year. Originally, Kentucky Derby officials were said to be reluctant to accept the steamboat race as part of the Derby celebrations, as in old betting parlance, a \"boat race\" refers to a horse race with an outcome influenced by dishonest means. According to Louisville folklore, the race may be rigged, but insiders insist that cheating is impossible, because the race has no rules—the only prizes are bragging rights and a pair of gilded deer antlers, which are mounted above the forecastle of the winning boat.\n\nToday, \"Belle of Louisville\" is recognized as the oldest river steamboat in operation, placed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1972, and designated a National Historic Landmark in 1989.\n\nThe annual Forecastle Festival is one of many examples of how \"Belle of Louisville\" has impacted several events throughout the city of Louisville. Although the music festival takes place in mid-July in Waterfront Park during the day carrying over into the late evening, \"Belle of Louisville\" acts as the venue for the after shows and parties that are specifically for Forecastle VIP ticket holders. During these after shows and parties, select performers act as the entertainment as people get to experience the environment of Louisville from the perspective of the river while they ride around on \"Belle of Louisville\".\n\nIn August 1997, \"Belle of Louisville\" was partially sunk at her moorings; a former crew member of the boat was later convicted of sabotage. The proximate cause of the sinking was flooding of the hull via a city water line left connected to a fitting that led into the boat's hull. Due to the swift actions of the steamer's crew and other members of the community, the boat was rescued, repaired, and returned to service.\n\nIn February 2007, Mark Doty was named as \"Belle of Louisville\"s captain, replacing Kevin Mullen, who left the position in November 2006. Doty's official title is \"Master of the Fleet\" or \"Port Captain\".\n\nOn October 17, 2009, \"Belle of Louisville\" collided with a dock near Six Mile Island on the Ohio River. Witness statements report that the accident occurred as she was making a turnaround about halfway through a cruise. Tugboats were used to pull her to safety. A \"Belle of Louisville\" official was quoted as saying that the wind had caused her to hit the dock. It has been reported that one-third of the paddle wheel's bucket planks were damaged in the collision, and jockey bar (the main steel arm, which goes across the aft end of the paddle wheel) was bent. The crew, however, was able to fix the damage without drydocking. The damaged bucket planks were replaced from stock held in storage.\n\nOn October 18, 2014, \"Belle of Louisville\" turned 100 years old. To celebrate, a 5-day riverboat festival named \"The Belle's Big Birthday Bash\" was held in Louisville along parts of Louisville Waterfront Park. Eight other riverboats from across the country joined \"Belle of Louisville\" to help celebrate her 100th year on the river. The festival incorporated cruises, fireworks, riverfront concerts, hot air balloon glows, and more. The other riverboats attending the festival included \"Spirit of Jefferson\", \"Anson Northrup\", \"Belle of Cincinnati\", \"The Colonel\", \"General Jackson\", \"River Queen\", \"Spirit of Peoria\", and \"Celebration Belle\". This festival was said to be the largest riverboat gathering that Louisville has seen in over 100 years. A portion of the proceeds from The Belle's Big Birthday Bash went toward her preservation fund.\n\n\"Belle of Louisville\" appears as a character (powered by an artificial intelligence) in Rudy Rucker's 1988 novel \"Wetware\", which takes place on the Moon and in Louisville in the year 2031.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306273", "title": "Mandolin Concerto (Vivaldi)", "text": "Mandolin Concerto (Vivaldi)\n\nThe Mandolin Concerto in C major, RV 425, was written by the Italian composer Antonio Vivaldi in 1725 and is often accompanied by \"The Four Seasons\" (1725). The music consists of virtuosic treatment of the solo instrument, the mandolin, and the interplay between the soloist and accompaniment of the orchestra. The demands are considered higher than other concerti by Vivaldi, and the work is one of the most famous mandolin pieces.\n\nMusic from the concerto was featured in the 1979 movie \"Kramer vs. Kramer\" and in the 2015 commercial The Gentleman's Wager II by Johnnie Walker.\n\nThere are three movements:\n\nThe first movement is a rapid, cheerful tune lasting slightly more than three minutes. Throughout the piece, Vivaldi creates sharp and low contrasts between the mandolin and the rest of the orchestra, attracting much attention to several crescendos within the music.\n\nThe second movement, is slightly less than three minutes long, and in contrast to the rapid and enthusiastic tune of the first movement, is slower and thoughtful in its composition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306292", "title": "The Spectacular Spider-Man", "text": "The Spectacular Spider-Man\n\nThe Spectacular Spider-Man is a comic book and magazine series starring Spider-Man and published by Marvel Comics.\n\nFollowing the success of Spider-Man's original series, \"The Amazing Spider-Man\", Marvel felt the character could support more than one title. This led the company in 1968 to launch a short-lived magazine, the first to bear the \"Spectacular\" name. In 1972, Marvel more successfully launched a second Spider-Man ongoing series, \"Marvel Team-Up\", in which he was paired with other Marvel heroes. A third monthly ongoing series, \"Peter Parker, The Spectacular Spider-Man\", debuted in 1976.\n\nThe Spectacular Spider-Man was initially a two-issue magazine published by Marvel in 1968, as an experiment in entering the black-and-white comic-magazine market successfully pioneered by Warren Publishing and others. It sold for 35 cents when standard comic books cost 12 cents and \"Annual\"s and \"Giant\"s 25 cents. It represented the first Spider-Man spin-off publication aside from the original series' summer \"Annual\"s, begun in 1964.\n\nThe first issue (cover-dated July 1968) featured a painted, color cover by men's adventure-magazine artist Harry Rosenbaum, in acrylic paint on illustration board, over layouts by \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" artist John Romita Sr. The 52-page black-and-white Spider-Man story, \"Lo, This Monster!\", was by writer Stan Lee, penciler Romita Sr. and inker Jim Mooney. A 10-page origin story, \"In The Beginning!\", was by Lee, penciler Larry Lieber and inker Bill Everett.\n\nThe feature story was reprinted in color, with some small alterations and bridging material by Gerry Conway, in \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" #116–118 (Jan.–March 1973) as \"Suddenly...the Smasher!\", \"The Deadly Designs of the Disruptor!\", and \"Countdown to Chaos!\" (with additional inking by Tony Mortellaro on the latter two). These versions were themselves reprinted in \"Marvel Tales\" #95–97 (Sept.-Oct. 1978).\n\nThe second and final issue (Nov. 1968) also sported a painted cover and the interior was in color as well. Lee, Romita and Mooney again collaborated on its single story, \"The Goblin Lives!\", featuring the Green Goblin. A next-issue box at the end promoted the planned contents of the unrealized issue #3, \"The Mystery of the TV Terror\". A version of the Goblin story, trimmed by 18 pages, was reprinted in \"The Amazing Spider-Man Annual\" #9 (1973), and portions of the \"TV Terror\" costume were reused for the costume of the Prowler.\n\nBoth issues of the magazine were reprinted in their entirety (albeit reduced to comic size) in the collection \"Marvel Masterworks: The Amazing Spider-Man\" #7 (), then again in \"Marvel Epic Collections: The Amazing Spider-Man\" #4 in 2019. The first issue was reprinted again in 2002 as \"The Spectacular Spider Man Facsimile\", exactly as it was originally presented.\n\nTitled Peter Parker, The Spectacular Spider-Man on its December 1976 debut, and shortened to simply The Spectacular Spider-Man with #134 (Jan. 1988), this was the second \"Amazing Spider-Man\" monthly comic-book spin-off series, after \"Marvel Team-Up\", which also featured Spider-Man. The monthly title ran 264 issues (including a #-1 issue) until November 1998.\n\nThe series was launched by writer/editor Gerry Conway and artist Sal Buscema and Mike Esposito. Conway explained the concept and origin of the series: \n\nBuscema drew the title until mid-1978. After Buscema's departure, a succession of artists (including Mike Zeck, Jim Mooney, Ed Hannigan, Marie Severin and Greg LaRocque) penciled the series for approximately five years. Frank Miller, who would later become the artist on \" Daredevil\", first drew the character in \"Peter Parker, The Spectacular Spider-Man\" #27. Scripting initially alternated between Conway and Archie Goodwin until mid-1977, when Bill Mantlo took over. During this era of \"Spectacular\", the stories focused more on Parker's campus life as an undergraduate student/teacher's assistant at Empire State University and giving more attention to his colleagues than to the more long-running supporting characters in \"Amazing\". Mantlo's first run on the title featured frequent appearances by the White Tiger, Marvel's first superhero of Hispanic descent and the first appearance of the supervillain Carrion. He used the series to wrap up unresolved plot elements from \"The Champions\" comic book series and concluded his first run with a crossover with \"Fantastic Four\" #218 (May 1980). Mantlo was succeeded by Roger Stern, who wrote for the title from #43 (June 1980) to #61 (December 1981). When Stern departed to write for \"The Amazing Spider-Man\", Mantlo returned to scripting \"Peter Parker, The Spectacular Spider-Man\"; Mantlo's second tenure at the title lasted until April 1984. Mantlo's second run introduced the superhero duo Cloak and Dagger, created by Mantlo and Hannigan in \"Peter Parker, The Spectacular Spider-Man\" #64 (March 1982), and included a story arc which took place from issues #73–79 (Dec. 1982 – June 1983), in which Doctor Octopus and the Owl compete for control of the New York underworld, Octopus almost destroys New York with a nuclear device and the Black Cat is critically injured. Issue #86 (January 1984) was part of the \"Assistant Editors Month\" event and featured a story drawn by Fred Hembeck.\nAl Milgrom took over scripting as well as art on the title with issue #90 (May 1984) and worked on it through #100 (March 1985). Milgrom imbued the book with a more whimsical tone, for example, pitting Spider-Man against The Spot, an enemy who was so ridiculous that he gave Spider-Man fits of laughter. Jim Owsley, then-editor of the Spider-Man books, disapproved of this approach and had Milgrom replaced as writer by newcomer Peter David in 1985. David and artist Rich Buckler, said Owsley, had the series \"focusing on stories with a serious, 'grown-up' tone and more complex themes\". The most notable story arc of the David/Buckler era is \"The Death of Jean DeWolff\" (#107–110, Oct. 1985–Jan. 1986), in which Spider-Man's ally, NYC Police Captain Jean DeWolff – a supporting character in the Spider-Man comics since 1976 – is murdered by the vigilante/serial killer the Sin-Eater. This multi-part story guest-starred Daredevil. The storyline \"Kraven's Last Hunt\" by writer J.M. DeMatteis and artists Mike Zeck and Bob McLeod crossed over into \"Peter Parker, The Spectacular Spider-Man\" #131 and 132.\nWith issue #134 (Jan. 1988), the \"Peter Parker\" part of the title was removed and the series became simply \"The Spectacular Spider-Man\". The logo changed from a distinctive design to using the same design as that of \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" and the 1968 \"Spectacular Spider-Man\" magazine; this logo did not change until issue #218 (Nov. 1994). Sal Buscema returned as the regular artist, staying with the title from early 1988 to late 1996; throughout the series' run, Buscema drew over 100 issues, making him by far the series' most frequent contributor.\n\nAfter his \"Return of the Sin-Eater\" arc (#134–136, Jan.–March 1988), Peter David was removed as writer. Editor Owsley said editor-in-chief Jim Shooter \"disliked Peter's work intensely\". David, in a 2005 interview, believed, \"I was fired off \"Spider-Man\" because it was felt at the upper editorial level that a novice comic-book writer shouldn't be handling the adventures of Marvel's flagship character\". Former series writer Gerry Conway, who additionally wrote \"Web of Spider-Man\" from 1988 to 1990, returned to \"Spectacular\" after which he left both books to become a story editor on the TV series \"Father Dowling Mysteries\". Conway stated in 1991 that \"I understand the character a lot better now than I did when I was nineteen. And one of the nice things about the Marvel characters is that you can keep them fresh by changing them just a bit.\" His 1988–1991 run on \"Spectacular\" included such story arcs as the \"Lobo Brothers Gang War\", and the conflict between \"Daily Bugle\" editor Joe Robertson and his former friend, the albino criminal Tombstone. He used his joint duty as \"Web of Spider-Man\" writer to tie together storylines in the two separate titles and strengthen the continuity between them. Throughout their run, Conway and Buscema collaborated using the Marvel method, occasionally working out details of the plot over the phone.\n\nJ. M. DeMatteis became the regular writer in mid-1991, injecting a grim, psychological tone into the series. DeMatteis began his run with the story arc \"The Child Within\" (#178–184, July 1991–Jan. 1992), featuring the return of the Harry Osborn version of the Green Goblin. As written by DeMatteis, Harry sank further into insanity and gained the same super-strength possessed by his father, battling Spider-Man again in #189 (June 1992), before being killed in #200 (May 1993). In an undated 2000s interview, DeMatteis said, \"I really loved the two years on \"Spectacular Spider-Man\" that I wrote with Sal Buscema drawing. Talk about underrated! Sal is one of the best storytellers and a wonderful collaborator. I loved that run.\" During this period Spider-Man editor Danny Fingeroth would hold conferences in New York with all the Spider-Man creative staff, allowing them to brainstorm ideas and discuss future storylines.\n\nDeMatteis left the book in mid-1993 to write \"The Amazing Spider-Man\". Steven Grant had a brief run before the book was set adrift with a succession of fill-in issues which ran through late 1994, when former \"Amazing Spider-Man\" writer Tom DeFalco took over. By this time, all the Spider-books were affected by the controversial \"Clone Saga\" that culminated with \"Spectacular Spider-Man\" #226 (July 1995), and Fingeroth convinced DeFalco that the series needed a regular writer to help guide the crossover story. This story revealed (though it was later reversed) that the Spider-Man who had appeared in the previous 20 years of comics was a clone of the real Spider-Man. This tied into a publishing gap after #229 (Oct. 1995), when the title was temporarily replaced by \"The Spectacular Scarlet Spider\" #1–2 (Nov.–Dec. 1995), featuring the \"original\" Peter Parker. The series picked up again with #230 (Jan. 1996). Initially newcomer Todd Dezago wrote the scripts for DeFalco's plots, since DeFalco was already writing two other series and wanted to groom DeZago to be the long-term writer on \"Spectacular Spider-Man\".\n\nTodd Dezago then wrote for a year before DeMatteis returned through May 1998. DeMatteis later commented, \"We did some nice stories, like the one about Flash Thompson's childhood. But, in general, I don't hold that last run ... very dear to my heart.\" Luke Ross succeeded Sal Buscema as the artist and remained until the series ended, but there was no regular writer for the last half-year with Glenn Greenberg, Roger Stern, John Byrne and Howard Mackie all contributing during this time. The final issue was #263 (Nov. 1998).\n\nSpectacular Spider-Man (vol. 2) titled without the definite article \"The\", is a 27-issue monthly series published from September 2003 to June 2005. Each issue was written by Paul Jenkins (except #23–26, by Samm Barnes). The book's primary pencillers were Humberto Ramos and Mark Buckingham.\n\nThe comic included the storyline \"Spider-Man: Disassembled\" in which Spider-Man met a new enemy called the Queen who wanted him as her mate. Her kiss caused him to slowly mutate into a giant spider who metamorphosed into human form with enhanced strength and agility, along with organic webbing and a psychic link with insects and arachnids.\n\nThis comic also included the sequel to \"Sins Past\", \"Sins Remembered\", in which Peter went to Paris to meet Sarah Stacy and resolved the issues between them.\n\n\"Spectacular Spider-Man Adventures\" was a title published by Panini Comics in the United Kingdom from November 1995 to September 2005, although the \"Adventures\" portion of the title was often dropped from the cover page. It featured a mix of reprinted American material, as well as originally produced British material. \"Spectacular\" was aimed at a younger audience than Panini's other Spider-Man reprint title \"Astonishing Spider-Man\" and was loosely based on the continuity of the 1990s animated series.\n\n\"Peter Parker: The Spectacular Spider-Man\" (vol. 3) was published from June 2017 to December 2018. After the first six issues, the series reverted to legacy numbering with issue #297 as part of the line-wide Marvel Legacy relaunch. The series' original creative team had Chip Zdarsky as writer, with Adam Kubert providing the artwork. Notable recurring characters included Teresa Durand, J. Jonah Jameson, Johnny Storm, and original character Rebecca London. \n\nVarious issues as well as the \"Annual\" were illustrated by guest artists; Kubert's final issue as artist was #307, excluding covers. Zdarsky left the series with issue #310. The series ended with issue #313, the final three issues being a tie-in to the Spider-Geddon event written by Sean Ryan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306301", "title": "Bellair, Clay County, Florida", "text": "Bellair, Clay County, Florida\n\nBellair is an unincorporated community in Clay County, Florida, United States.\n"}
{"id": "2306312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306312", "title": "Patriarch Germogen", "text": "Patriarch Germogen\n\nPatriarch Germogen may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2306321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306321", "title": "Born to Raise Hell (Motörhead song)", "text": "Born to Raise Hell (Motörhead song)\n\n\"Born to Raise Hell\" is a song by the British heavy metal band Motörhead. Originally written by Lemmy for the German band Skew Siskin, it plays over the opening credits of the 1994 film \"Airheads\" in which Lemmy makes a cameo appearance.\n\nThe song was released as a single in November 1994, featuring Lemmy, Ice-T and Ugly Kid Joe lead singer Whitfield Crane. The single features a radio edit, the original \"Bastards\" album version and the Dust Brothers Live and Funky Mix. A special 12\" vinyl picture disc pressing was made, using the same picture as the CD single release. \n\nThis version was recorded in addition to the previous recordings of \"Hellraiser\" and \"Hell on Earth\", as a last minute job to play over the end credits of the \"\" film, although it didn't appear on the film's original soundtrack album.\n\nAt 2016's Bloodstock Open Air Festival, Phil Campbell & The Bastard Sons (formerly The Phil Campbell All Starr Band) covered the track with guest vocals from Twisted Sister's Dee Snider as a tribute to Lemmy.\nSong by Lemmy\n\n"}
{"id": "2306324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306324", "title": "Mithridates II of Cius", "text": "Mithridates II of Cius\n\nMithridates of Cius (in Greek Mιθριδάτης or Mιθραδάτης; lived c. 386–302 BC, ruled 337–302 BC) a Persian noble, succeeded his kinsman or father Ariobarzanes II in 337 BC as ruler of the Greek town of Cius in Mysia (today part of Turkey). Diodorus assigns him a rule of thirty-five years, but it appears that his rule of Cius was interrupted during that period. What circumstances led to his expulsion or subjection are unknown; nothing is heard of him until his death in 302 BC. However, it appears that he had submitted to the Macedonian Antigonus, who, to prevent him from joining the league of Cassander and his confederates, arranged for his assassination in Cius.\n\nAccording to Lucian, he was at least eighty-four years of age at the time of his death, which makes it likely that he is the same person as the Mithridates, son of Ariobarzanes, who in his youth circumvented and put to death Datames. King Mithridates I of Pontus was his kinsman, although it is not known whether he was his son.\n\nTherefore, it is likely that he was the same Mithradates, son of Ariobarzanes prince of Cius, who is mentioned by Xenophon as having betrayed his father, and the same circumstance is alluded to by Aristotle. During the Satraps' Revolt in the 360s BC, Mithridates tricked Datames into believing in him. But in the end he arranged for Datames' murder in 362 BC. Similarly, Mithridates gave his own father Ariobarzanes of Phrygia over to his Persian overlord, so Ariobarzanes was crucified in 362 BC.\n\nPresumably he was not the same Mithridates who accompanied the younger Cyrus in c. 401 BC - there is no proof of this. Neither is he the Mithridates mentioned by Xenophon as satrap of Cappadocia and Lycaonia in the late 5th century BC.\n\nBetween 362 and 337 BC the family fiefdom of Cius in Mysia was held by Ariobarzanes II (possibly Mithridates' brother).\n\n"}
{"id": "2306335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306335", "title": "Alexander Dennis Enviro400", "text": "Alexander Dennis Enviro400\n\nThe Alexander Dennis Enviro400 is a twin-axle low-floor double-decker bus that was built by the British bus manufacturer Alexander Dennis between 2005 and 2018, replacing the Alexander ALX400, Dennis Trident (from which the Enviro400 was developed) and Plaxton President. In 2014, the Enviro400 was succeeded by the updated Alexander Dennis Enviro400 MMC, and production of the classic Enviro400 ceased in 2018.\n\nThe Enviro400 is available both as an integral bus and as a standalone bodywork and chassis. The Enviro400 chassis replaced the Dennis Trident 2 (and continued to be badged as the Trident for a time) and was formerly available with East Lancs Myllennium Lolyne and Optare Olympus bodywork; the Enviro400 body replaced the Alexander ALX400 and Plaxton President designs and was sold on Scania N230UD, Volvo B7TL and Volvo B9TL chassis.\n\nThe first Enviro400 was delivered to Stagecoach London in December 2005 to replace the Alexander ALX400-bodied Dennis Trident 2 that was destroyed in the 7 July 2005 bombings, with the replacement bus being named the \"Spirit of London\" as a result.\n\nThe Enviro400 was originally launched as an integral product. Soon after launch, the Enviro400 chassis became available with East Lancs Myllennium Lolyne and Optare Olympus bodywork.\n\nAs well as an integral bus, the Enviro400 body was available on Scania N-series chassis. The vast majority of N-series Enviro400s built were of the N230UD variant, which sold well with Stagecoach Group. Additionally, two N-series Enviro400s were built on the more powerful N280UD variant of the chassis, both for Express Motors of Porthmadog.\n\nAs well as the Scania N-series, a single Enviro400 was constructed on Volvo B7TL chassis before this chassis was succeeded by the Volvo B9TL, on which more examples of the Enviro400 were bodied.\n\nAlexander Dennis released the second generation Enviro400 at Euro Bus Expo in 2008, with the main external visual differences being the incorporation of a line of white LED daytime running lights underneath the headlights in the main front light clusters, redesigned front bumpers and the relocation of the offside emergency exit door. The facelift coincided with the introduction of a Euro 5 compliant drivetrain for the Enviro400. The \"Trident\" moniker on the chassis plates was largely dropped not long afterwards, but the \"Trident 2\" name was retained on Enviro400s built for Hong Kong.\n\nThe second generation Enviro400 was largely superseded by the Enviro400 MMC in 2016, but in the same year Alexander Dennis developed a low-height Enviro400 with Enviro400 MMC-style front and rear specifically for Hong Kong market. Production of Enviro400 ceased in 2018.\n\nGlobally, more than 6,000 integral Enviro400s have been sold as of January 2016.\n\nLondon operator Metroline was the first company to order the Enviro400, with the first of 28 entering service in January 2006. One dual door demonstrator, named \"Spirit of London\", was delivered to Stagecoach London to replace the Dennis Trident destroyed during 7 July 2005 London bombings and a single door demonstrator was delivered to the then Travel West Midlands for evaluation. Both prototypes were exhibited at Coach & Bus Live 2005 in the National Exhibition Centre in Birmingham, UK and then entered service in January 2006.\n\nThe Enviro400 had sold well in London with a number of operators, such as Travel London and London General (which received the first Euro IV-engined Enviro400 in May 2006), operating these buses. It is also popular with Stagecoach, which placed its first order of 130 low-height models in February 2006, later followed by another 389 buses with Euro IV/V engine. Arriva also received Enviro400s for its UK operations, Arriva Merseyside relaunched its Wirral - Liverpool 'Cross River' services with a batch of 23 in January 2009. A further batch of 12 was allocated to Bootle depot in September 2009 originally for the cross-Liverpool trunk service 60 linking Bootle with Aigburth. However a much larger order of 128 Enviro400s was placed by Arriva for its Merseyside division from the Autumn of 2014 onwards with significant numbers in service at Bootle, Green Lane, St Helens, Southport and Speke depots.\n\nOn 13 October 2006, Solent Blue Line received a Volvo B7TL/Enviro400 meeting the Euro III emission standard, with the interior in Wilts & Dorset livery. This remains a one-off as all subsequent Enviro400s on Volvo chassis were built on the B9TL chassis. An Arriva demonstrator was shown at Euro Bus Expo in 2006 to the latter standard.\n\nEast Yorkshire Motor Services took delivery of five Enviro400-bodied Volvo B9TL in December 2007, which entered service in January 2008. London General also received three Enviro400-bodied Volvo B9TLs in October 2008, which are being evaluated against integral Enviro400s and Wright Eclipse Gemini-bodied Volvo B7TL/B9TLs that are extensively featured in Go-Ahead's London Central/General fleets.\n\nStagecoach announced on 28 February 2007 that it had ordered 25 Enviro400s with Scania N230UD chassis, which were subsequently delivered in early 2008. These were followed by another 56 for delivery in 2009, 100 for 2009/10, 100 for 2010/11, 91 for 2011/12 and 57 for 2012/13. Oxford Bus Company and Wilts & Dorset also received some examples.\n\nA hybrid version, the Enviro400H, entered service with a number of operators including Metroline, East Yorkshire Motor Services, National Express West Midlands, Reading Buses, Stagecoach London, Lothian and First Glasgow.\n\nIn 2008, one Enviro400 was built for the 2008 Summer Olympics and 2008 Paralympic Games as a handover bus.\n\nIn 2012, Southern Vectis received 20 for school contracts on the Isle of Wight. These were delivered during late December 2012 and early January 2013 and entered service on a wide variety of school services on the island from 7 January 2013. Southern Vectis then proceeded to order another 16 Enviro400s to be used on public routes, mostly route 9, with the first six going to Oxford Bus Company for a few months. Ten of these buses have been delivered and on 3 January 2014, they commenced operating.\n\nBetween 2014 and 2015 Arriva North West received a total of 128 integral Enviro400s for a number of services on Merseyside - with 28 arriving in 2014 and the remainder being delivered between January and July 2015. Arriva Buses Wales received a total of 29 high specification Enviro400s between June 2014 and March 2015 for deployment on two new Sapphire services between Rhyl and Llandudno and Chester and Connah's Quay respectively.\n\nStagecoach is currently receiving a total of 76 Enviro400s for services with Stagecoach London, Stagecoach North West and Stagecoach South West.\n\nIrish state run operator Dublin Bus was the first bus operator to order the Volvo B9TL-based Enviro400, ordering 50 with the first of these entering service on 14 August 2007, later followed by another 50.\n\nIn 2009, Kowloon Motor Bus and Citybus of Hong Kong received two (one for each operator) air-conditioned Enviro400 for evaluation, both of which entered service in February 2010. Citybus introduced one more in July 2010.\n\nIn November 2010, Alexander Dennis had confirmed an extra order of 38 Enviro400s from Citybus at the press conference of Euro Bus Expo 2010 held in Birmingham, UK; these buses entered service in 2011. A further order of 20 Enviro400s had been placed and these buses started to enter service in 2013.\n\nMTR Corporation also ordered nine Enviro400s for MTR Bus service, these buses entering service in 2012. Two more Enviro400s entered service in 2018.\n\nKowloon Motor Bus received a further 50 Enviro400s between 2012 and 2013.\n\nNew World First Bus ordered 60 low-height Enviro400s, these entered service in 2016 and 2017. New Lantao Bus ordered 14 low-height Enviro400s, which are similar to New World First Bus' batch. They entered service from October 2018 and have served route 3M since January 2019.\n\nThe Enviro400 was introduced to North America exclusively as an open-top bus for sightseeing purposes. It is not available as a public transport vehicle, unlike the similar Alexander Dennis Enviro500.\n\nOn 11 November 2010, Alexander Dennis announced it had received an order for 10 Enviro400s from Coach USA subsidiary Twin America, in New York.\n\nThe Enviro400 features an innovative seating layout that maximises use of seating space on the lower deck by placing two forward-facing moulded seats onto the front nearside wheelarch box with a small luggage shelf on the rear half, and also (on full-height models) a single forward-facing moulded seat on the front off-side wheelarch hub between the driver's partition and the staircase.\n\nThe engine is a six-cylinder Cummins driving through a Voith or ZF automatic transmission. The maximum speed is . A hybrid-electric version of the powertrain was also available.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306337", "title": "Calendar Man", "text": "Calendar Man\n\nCalendar Man (Julian Gregory Day) is a fictional supervillain appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics, as an enemy of the superhero Batman, belonging to the collective of adversaries that make up Batman's rogues gallery. Calendar Man is known for committing crimes that correspond with holidays and significant dates. He often wears costumes to correlate with the date of the designated crime. In his first debut, the character was presented as a joke villain, but in later years, writers developed Calendar Man as a dark, disturbed serial killer that toys with Batman.\n\nCalendar Man first appeared in \"Detective Comics\" #259 (Sept. 1958) and was created by Bill Finger and Sheldon Moldoff. He returned after twenty years to plague Batman again in \"Batman\" #312 (June 1979).\n\nCalendar Man is fascinated by dates and calendars. His crimes always have a relationship to the date that they are committed. The theme may be related to what day of the week it is or to a holiday or to a special anniversary on that date; he will plan his crime around that day. He often wears different costumes which correspond to the significance of the date, though he does have a main costume which has various numbers (meant to represent days on a calendar) sprouting from the shoulders.\n\nHe next appears in \"Batman\" #312 (June 1979), in which his crimes are based on the days of the week, and his costumes reflect the Norse and Roman gods they were named for, e.g. Saturn. Calendar Man fires an ultrasonic sound weapon at Batman, nearly killing him. While Batman recuperates, Calendar Man commits crimes on Friday and Saturday. He plans to leave Gotham City on a train called the Western Sun Express on Sunday, knowing that the police would be waiting for him to attempt to steal an artifact of the Egyptian God of the Sun, Ra. Batman captures him at the train station before he boards.\n\nThis issue also marked the first appearance of his most commonly known \"calendar cape\" costume. His next appearance in \"Batman\" #384-385 (June–July 1985) and \"Detective Comics\" #551 (June 1985), sees the Calendar Man at the onset of the Crisis being used as a pawn of the Monitor in an attempt to find an assassin to eliminate Batman. In this instance, the Calendar Man's theme is holidays, and he attempts to use the young Jason Todd, as Robin, as the Batman's Achilles' heel, with the promise of his demise on the first day of Spring. Ultimately, however, Robin himself captures the villain.\n\nHis best-known modern appearance is in the miniseries \"\", where he is portrayed as a Hannibal Lecter-like figure, offering insight in Batman's search for Holiday, a serial killer who uses holidays as his \"modus operandi\". Like Lecter in the novels of Thomas Harris, Calendar Man knows who the killer is and keeps this information to himself, choosing instead to taunt the heroes with cryptic clues. He returns in that story's sequel, \"\", in which he impersonates deceased mobster Carmine Falcone in an effort to drive his children, Alberto and Mario, insane. When Calendar Man (as Carmine) tries to get Alberto to kill himself, however, the younger Falcone detects the ruse; Alberto knows that his father abhorred suicide, and thus figures out that Calendar Man is manipulating him. At the end of the story arc, Falcone's daughter Sofia Falcone Gigante beats him to a pulp as revenge for his role in her father's death. In both stories, Calendar Man is bitter that the new murderous rogues have taken the attention off him; he fears that he is being forgotten.\n\nCalendar Man teams up with Catman and Killer Moth as part of The Misfits, a group of villains trying to prove themselves in \"\" #7–9 (1992–1993). Also, he is among the Arkham Asylum inmates freed by Bane in \"\", but he is easily recaptured by Power Girl shortly after his escape. In \"Team Titans\" #14 (Nov 1993) Calendar Man and several other villains whose crimes center around time-based motifs, including Time Commander, fight the title's heroes over a valued hourglass. Calendar Man appears in \"All the Deadly Days\", a story in \"80 Page Giant Batman Special Edition\" #3 (July 2000), in which he has acquired a new high-tech costume, and moves up to more grandiose crimes. He makes an appearance in the alternate reality story \"Superman: Arkham\" (beginning in \"Superman\" Vol. 2 #160), which was also written by Jeph Loeb. Calendar Man appears in the series \"Harley Quinn\", as an inside informant to the title character.\n\nIn Week 20 of the weekly series \"52\", a radio broadcasts a message saying that Calendar Man was left tied up for the cops in Gotham City, even though there is no Batman. It is revealed the new heroine, Batwoman, was responsible for his capture.\n\nIn September 2011, The New 52 rebooted DC's continuity. In this new timeline, the character appears as a lifestyle reporter in a series of backup stories called \"Channel 52\". In one, he claims to have kept up a video diary out of scavenged materials because basic human civilization has fallen.\n\nIn the books of DC Rebirth, Calendar Man's body ages and rejuvenates according to the seasons.\n\nCalendar Man is a successful inventor, capable of designing the machinery needed to deploy his various schemes. His talents aid him as he pursues his obsession with quirks of the calendar, carefully planning and theming his crimes around holidays, weekdays and the seasons. Calendar Man is also an experienced hand-to-hand combatant, although his main reason for his success is his intelligence. In his latest incarnation, as written by Scott Snyder and Tom King in the pages of the \"Batman Rebirth\" special (June 2016), the Calendar Man now ages with the seasonal weather of Gotham City. Every spring he is reborn, with his DNA altered, but retains his memories, and then ages rapidly until winter when he dies, only to be reborn again the next spring by crawling from the husk of his own corpse.\n\nThe \"\" version of Calendar Man appears in the story \"Last Christmas!\" He plans a Christmas crime, only to encounter Batman. When a zeta beam teleports Batman away, he claims it to be a Christmas Miracle, minutes before Earth is destroyed. After Batman and Adam Strange restore Earth, Batman proceeds to easily defeat Calendar Man.\n\nAn older Calendar Man appears in the \"Batman Beyond\" comic book arc \"Hush Beyond\". From his wheelchair, he builds a greeting card rigged to explode, intending to kill Commissioner Gordon. Batman arrives to stop him, only to be confronted by Hush. Hush mentions that Batman's \"true family\" is his many enemies and he plans to destroy it. He then proceeds to kill Calendar Man.\n\nCalendar Man appears in \"\"'s prequel comic, where in Arkham Asylum, he is frustrated when Robin does not recognize him, and attempts to remind Wonder Woman of an encounter they had where she broke one of his ribs as she thwarted a crime he was attempting to commit, and becomes despondent when she only glares at him. Later, he takes part in Harley Quinn's riot and helps Killer Croc hold Batman down as the Riddler prepares to crush his skull with a large rock, but Batman breaks free thanks to Green Arrow. Calendar Man is next seen fighting Nightwing, but is easily held back by the hero. Calendar Man is last seen among the inmates who sorrowfully watch Batman carry Nightwing's body out of the Asylum.\n\nCalendar Man appears in \"\" comic. On Labor Day, Calendar Man murdered several people inside the Campbell Calendar Company. It was all just a plan to draw out Batman, however, the Arkham Knight had given him Electrocutioner's gauntlets to disable Batman's communications. To Batman's great surprise, Calendar Man had gathered seven clones of Solomon Grundy, named after each day of the week, whom Calendar Man claimed to have created. Over the week it took Batman to defeat all of the creatures, Calendar Man had kidnapped a newborn baby. He then gave the exhausted Batman a list of names and told him that those people had been poisoned and had 24 hours to live. He instructed Batman to save them all and then return to him. If Batman failed to save all of the people on the list or brought any of his allies with him when he returned, Calendar Man would execute the baby. The listed citizens were saved but before Batman returned as ordered, Scarecrow visited Julian to dissuade him of his attempt to kill Batman. Grudgingly, Calendar Man relented and gave up the baby without a fight.\n\nIn the prequel comic to \"Injustice 2\", Calendar Man is shown to be a member of this universe's Suicide Squad. When the Impostor Batman takes over the Suicide Squad, he deems Calendar Man useless and tries to blow him up with other villains he found worthless, but Calendar Man was lucky for the bomb on his neck was defective. The impostor Batman leaves him behind at the Pentagon.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAlongside a panel from \"Detective Comics\" #259 (Sept 1958) in which the Calendar Man is wearing a festive \"Spring\" outfit while the caption says \"and elsewhere, the Calendar Man makes a grim vow,\" Scott Saavedra writes in \"Comic Book Heaven\": \"Even if he could lose the stupid grin I doubt that anyone could possibly make a \"grim vow\" in that outfit. That sound you hear is the bottom of the Bad-Guy Barrel being scraped.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2306339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306339", "title": "Magnus Brahe (1564–1633)", "text": "Magnus Brahe (1564–1633)\n\nCount Magnus Brahe (1564–1633) was a Swedish noble. Being both Lord High Constable and Lord High Steward of Sweden, he was a notable figure in the 17th century Sweden.\n\nMagnus Brahe, a son of Per Brahe the Elder and Beata Stenbock and nephew of queen dowager Catherine Stenbock, was born at Tynnelsö Palace on 25 September 1564. He was the brother of Erik Brahe (1552–1614), Gustaf Brahe (1558–1615), Margareta Brahe (1559–1638), Sigrid Brahe and Abraham Brahe (1569–1630).\n\nHe became a chamberlain of King Sigismund in 1590. Four years later, he left Sigismund and started to support Sigismund's cousin Duke Carl, who was an enemy of Sigismund and challenged the king for the throne. Brahe received various important assignments from Duke Carl, and eventually, in 1602, Brahe became Lord High Constable (Swedish: \"riksmarsk\") and a member of the Swedish Privy Council.\n\nBrahe's older brothers had supported Sigismund which led to them losing the Visingsborg County. Having been a trustful supporter of Duke Carl, who became regent of Sweden in 1599 and king 1604, Brahe was declared Count of Visingsborg instead. When King Carl IX died and was succeeded by his son Gustavus Adolphus in 1611, Brahe remained a close confidant of the new king. The same year, he was appointed Lord High Steward (Swedish: \"riksdrots\"), becoming arguably the most prominent member of the Privy Council.\n\nBrahe married Countess Brita Stensdotter Leijonhufvud (1567–1611) at Gräfsnäs Palace on 10 November 1594. They were parents of Ebba Brahe (1596–1674), who was the subject of king Gustav Adolphus' love. The countess died in 1611, and Brahe remarried at Strömsholm Palace on 18 October 1618, this time with Baroness Helena Bielke (1592–1651).\n\nIn 1614, he was made president of Svea Court of Appeal, when this court was created. Brahe was knighted at the coronation of Gustavus Adolphus in October 1617.\n\nHe died in Stockholm on 3 March 1633 due to an illness, which possibly was caused by the great grief Brahe felt when king Gustavus Adolphus died four months earlier. He was buried on 12 May the same year in Västerås Cathedral.\n"}
{"id": "2306348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306348", "title": "Heritage Open Days", "text": "Heritage Open Days\n\nHeritage Open Days (also known as HODs) is an annual celebration of England's architecture and culture that allows visitors free access to historical landmarks that are either not usually open to the public, would normally charge an entrance fee, or that are always free to visitors and always open to the public. It also includes tours, events and activities related to architecture and culture. \n\nHeritage Open Days is England's largest festival of history and culture, bringing together over 2,500 organisations, 5,000 events and 40,000 volunteers. Heritage Open Days 2018 ran from 6-9 and 13-16 September. \n\nHeritage Open Days were established in 1994 as England's contribution to European Heritage Days, in which 49 countries now participate.\n\nOrganised by volunteers (often property owners or managers), Heritage Open Days is one of England's biggest voluntary cultural events, attracting some 800,000 people every year. Until April 2009 the Civic Trust gave central co-ordination and a national voice to the event. \n\nHeritage Open Days does not cover all of the United Kingdom but operates only across England, except in London, which stages a separate event, Open House London, usually on the following weekend, the third weekend of September. In Scotland, Doors Open Days are held during September.\n\nThe 2018 festival took place across two weekends in September 2018 for the first time. \n\nIn 2018, Heritage Open Days celebrated ‘Extraordinary Women’, in order to profile underrepresented women, through non zero one's \"put her forward\" initiative. The project is funded by People's Postcode Lottery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306352", "title": "Ivan Turchin", "text": "Ivan Turchin\n\nIvan Vasilyevich Turchaninov (rus. Иван Васильевич Турчанинов); December 24, 1822 – June 18, 1901) better known by his Anglicised name of John Basil Turchin, was a Union army brigadier general in the American Civil War. He led two critical charges that saved the day at Chickamauga and was among the first to lead soldiers up Missionary Ridge.\n\nIvan Turchin was born on December 24, 1822 or January 30, 1822 into a Don Cossack in the Russian Empire. He entered the Russian Army in 1843, and graduated from the Imperial Military School in St. Petersburg in 1852. His father was a major in the Imperial Russian Army, which allowed him to gain entry into schools that led to his eventual commission to military service. He later served as a Colonel of Staff in the Russian Guards and fought in Hungary and in the Crimean War. While serving as a lieutenant, he took part in the Russian campaign to help the Austrian Empire suppress the Hungarian Revolution of 1848.\n\nFollowing his graduation, Turchin acquired a post on the staff of Imperial Guards in St. Petersburg, under the command of Count F.V. Rudiger. \nIn May 1856, he married Nadezhda Lvov, the daughter of his commanding officer. Later that year, he and his wife immigrated to the United States, where he eventually settled in Chicago and worked for the Illinois Central Railroad.\n\nTurchin joined the Union army at the outbreak of the war in 1861 and became the colonel of the 19th Illinois Volunteer Infantry Regiment. Having led his regiment in Missouri and Kentucky, he soon found his unit under command of the newly organized Army of the Ohio under major general Don Carlos Buell. General Buell was impressed by Turchin and promoted him to command a brigade in the Army of the Ohio's Third Division, commanded by Brigadier General Ormsby M. Mitchel. Buell advanced southward into Kentucky and Tennessee in early 1862.\n\nWhen Buell headed west to support Grant at Shiloh, he left Mitchel to hold Nashville. Turchin urged Mitchel to move southward. Mitchel did so, but not because of Turchin. He took Huntsville, Alabama as part of a plan with the spy James Andrews to capture Chattanooga by cutting it off from Confederate reinforcements. Mitchel blocked them from the west by capturing Huntsville. Andrews was to block them from the south by burning bridges on the Western and Atlantic line. Unfortunately, Andrews failed as his raid evolved into an episode that became known as the Great Locomotive Chase. Nonetheless, Mitchell continued to occupy the line westward from Chattanooga throughout much of northern Alabama.\n\nThe occupation of northern Alabama by this division of the Union Army led to attack by combined partisan and Confederate cavalry units. One such attack overran one of Turchin's regiments at Athens, Alabama. Frustration had been building among these Union soldiers for weeks over repeated attacks and Buell's clearly stated conciliatory policy of protecting the rights and property of Southerners. The reported involvement of local citizens in the rout at Athens and the humiliation suffered by the Union soldiers led to the sacking of the town when Turchin brought up reinforcements. According to University of New Mexico School of Law professor, Joshua E. Kastenberg, southern civilians had fired on Turchin's men. General Joseph Keifer, who served as an ad hoc judge advocate, stated \"Turchin did not believe that war could be successfully waged by an invading army with its officers and soldiers acting as missionaries of mercy.\" However, what may have been permissible in the Czar's armies, was certainly not in the Union Army.\n\nAfter reoccupying the town on May 2, 1862 Turchin assembled his men and reportedly told them: \"I shut my eyes for two hours. I see nothing.\" He did in fact leave the town to reconnoiter defensive positions, during which time his men ransacked the business district. The incident was controversial, and Lost Cause supporters vilified Turchin. The court-martial of Turchin was merited by his own admission. When word reached General Buell, a man much detested by the soldiers, he insisted on court-martialing Turchin. Turchin's court proceedings received national attention and became a focal point for the debate on the conduct of the war, related to the conciliatory policy as Union casualties in the war mounted. However, President Abraham Lincoln promoted Turchin to brigadier general before the court-martial was finished.\n\nTurchin received a hero's welcome upon his return to Chicago. Prominent figures called for the removal of Buell and a more aggressive conduct of the war such that it be brought to a swift end. Turchin was given command of a new brigade. He distinguished himself during the battles of Chickamauga and Chattanooga, and in the Atlanta Campaign.\n\nTurchin's wife, known in the army as Madame Turchin, always stood by him and followed her husband on the field during his campaigns, witnessing the battles (as at Chickamauga and at the battle of Missionary Ridge), and writing the only woman's war diary of the military campaigns.\n\nThe song \"Turchin's got your mule\" (stemming from the catchphrase \"Here's your mule\") was popular during the war, and its chorus is said to have been used by disheartened troopers as a derisive answer to General Braxton Bragg's endearments at Missionary Ridge.\n\nTurchin resigned from service in October 1864 after suffering heatstroke on the campaign.\n\nOn February 25, 1862 Buell issued a general order commanding his soldier “to protect the dignity of civilians.” As Professor Kastenberg has noted, while Turchin may not have been concerned with the law or war, he certainly was “on notice” of Buell’s order. Turchin, according to Professor Kastenberg, had another problem at his court-martial. He requested Colonel Carter Gazlay to serve as his defense counsel – unusual since a defense counsel was not a right at the time – and Gazlay faced his own court-martial for theft of Army property. And, as Professor Kastenberg points out, no less than Brigadier General James Garfield penned to Secretary of War Edwin Stanton “I cannot sufficiently give utterance to my horror of the ravages, outrages, that have been committed… this town was, by Col Turchin, given up to pillage.” Turchin was ultimately spared an ignominious end because Buell has removed from command for his incompetence. \n\nThere were three charges against Turchin. He was first accused of \"neglect of duty.\" According to the recitations, there were over twenty or so instances where Turchin supposedly ordered his soldiers to pillage and plunder Athens, AL, without any proper restraints to them. Such instances included the sexual abuse of a servant [meaning slave] girl and the utter decimation of Bibles and testaments, ruthlessly destroyed and burned to pieces in a shop. Many of the other allegations against him included the plundering of ten stores and nine homes. \"The rape served as the ultimate example of Turchin's failure\" to control his own troops. Under the second charge, Turchin failed to perform proper behavior expected out of an officer and a gentleman. This mattered to General Buell because under \"Article 83 conviction meant automatic dismissal from the service and the end of Turchin's military career.\" A specification added to this charge included a failure to pay the bill at a hotel where he defrauded the innkeeper. The third charge was a failure to obey orders. It was believed that if Turchin was convicted on this charge it would send a clear message to the officers in the Army of the Ohio. It was a means of instilling discipline and order within the ranks of the army When the court-martial began, Garfield had been under the impression that Turchin allowed the things that took place at Athens in accordance with the Muscovite custom.\n\nTurchin returned to Chicago and worked for a time as a patent solicitor and civil engineer. He later was involved in real estate and the settlement of immigrants in southern Illinois. In 1900, he was awarded a pension under a private pension act approved by Congress. He suffered severe dementia, attributed to his heatstroke, and died penniless in an institution in Anna, Illinois, at the age of 79. He is buried next to his wife in the Mound City National Cemetery in southern Illinois.\n\nTurchin has been portrayed by many in the South as a villainous figure for the so-called \"Rape of Athens,\" however his actions presaged those that other Union commanders, in particular William Tecumseh Sherman, would adopt in prosecuting total war against the Confederacy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306365", "title": "AN/PEQ-2", "text": "AN/PEQ-2\n\nThe AN/PEQ-2 Infrared Target Pointer/Illuminator/Aiming Light (ITPIAL) is a laser sight for use on rifles fitted with a Picatinny rail. It was manufactured by Insight Technology.\n\nThe AN/PEQ-2 succeeded the AN/PAQ-4C, which was designed in the early 1990s after the Persian Gulf War.\n\nThe device, which is mil-spec, is still seeing active service but is being withdrawn and replaced amongst U.S. Armed Forces. It was also part of the U.S. SOPMOD kit, though the device is being replaced by the new smaller AN/PEQ-15 (ATPIAL) model.\n\nThe AN/PEQ-2 has two infrared laser emitters—one narrow beam used for aiming the rifle, and one wide beam used for illuminating targets, like a flashlight. The beams can only be seen through night vision goggles. Each beam can be zeroed independently, and the illuminator's radius is adjustable. The two lasers are tied into one 6-mode switch, which has the following modes:\n\nTurning the mode switch does not turn on the lasers. A recessed button on top of the device is tapped once to briefly turn on the lasers or tapped twice to turn the lasers on until deactivated, either by pressing a third time or by turning the mode switch to off. Additionally, an extra pressure switch can be plugged into the rear of the device and then placed virtually anywhere, limited only by the length of the pressure switch's cord; typically one to two feet. This pressure switch operates the same way as the recessed button.\n\nThe AN/PEQ-2A upgrade incorporates a blue removable safety block which physically prevents turning the mode switch to any of the high power modes, which are capable of causing eye damage. Both variants are waterproof to a depth of 20 meters and run on two AA batteries. Additional civilian variants also exist—they can provide greater power, visible/IR laser combinations, or other features.\n"}
{"id": "2306372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306372", "title": "Peter Stoner", "text": "Peter Stoner\n\nPeter Stoner (June 16, 1888 – March 21, 1980) was a Christian Writer and Chairman of the Departments of Mathematics and Astronomy at Pasadena City College until 1953; Chairman of the science division, Westmont College, 1953–57; Professor Emeritus of Science, Westmont College; Professor Emeritus of Mathematics and Astronomy, Pasadena City College.\n\nStoner is probably best known for his book \"Science Speaks\" that discusses, among other things, Bible prophecies vis a vis probability estimates and calculations. The work is often cited in the field of Christian apologetics in regard to Bible prophecy. Professor Stoner's book became widely known when it was mentioned by Josh McDowell in his 1972 book \"Evidence that Demands a Verdict\" (revised as \"New Evidence that Demands a Verdict\").\n\nPeter Stoner was a co-founder of the American Scientific Affiliation, a Christian organization that describes itself as \"a fellowship of men and women in science and disciplines that relate to science who share a common fidelity to the Word of God and a commitment to integrity in the practice of science.\" The foreword to Stoner's \"Science Speaks\" includes a partial endorsement from this body (covering the book's scientific content and prophecy probability calculations, but not addressing issues of Biblical exegesis or historical accuracy): they considered it \"...in general, to be dependable and accurate in regard to the scientific material presented\" and the probability material presented in regard to prophecy. While the ASA includes members with a diverse range of attitudes towards science (theistic evolutionists, Intelligent Design advocates, Old-Earth creationists and Young-Earth creationists), Stoner himself was apparently an Old-Earth creationist.\n\nC. P. Swanson, reviewing \"Science Speaks\" in \"The Quarterly Review of Biology\", wrote: \"...the author has fallen into the commonest error of using only these facts which bolster his hypothesis, and of discarding or controverting those which do not. For example, his discussion of the theory of evolution is not only misleading; it displays an abysmal ignorance of recent evolutionary studies.\"\n\nVarious critics have taken issue with Stoner's interpretation of prophecy. Stoner's apologetic work did not receive critical attention until its inclusion in Josh McDowell's \"Evidence that Demands a Verdict\" and criticism of these claims tends to be addressed to McDowell rather than Stoner, with Stoner's name mentioned in passing. These criticisms against McDowell, Stoner and others include historical errors, claims regarding after-the-event authorship and/or tampering with Biblical prophecies, and disputed meanings of certain Biblical phrases.\n\nOthers who disagree with specific claims made by Stoner include fellow Christians and secular historians: for instance, while Stoner says of Ezekiel's prophecy of the permanent destruction of Tyre \"If Ezekiel had looked at Tyre in his day and had made these seven predictions in human wisdom, these estimates mean that there would have been only one chance in 75,000,000 of their all coming true. They all came true in the minutest detail\", others claim that \"the problem is that very little of this actually came to pass! In fact, it badly missed how history actually unfolded\" and \"The location of the city of Tyre is not in doubt, for it exists to this day on the same spot and is known as Sur.\" However, it could still be argued that the boundaries of the ancient mainland city may have fallen within areas of the modern city not rebuilt in the present day.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306381", "title": "Indian Springs School", "text": "Indian Springs School\n\nIndian Springs School is a private school for grades eight through twelve, near Birmingham, Alabama, United States. It has both boarding and day students, and is located in Indian Springs Village, Shelby County, Alabama.\n\nIndian Springs School was founded in 1952, endowed by Birmingham businessman Harvey G. Woodward, an alumnus of MIT. He died in 1930 and, in his will bequeathed the funds and instructions for creating the school. Woodward wanted to make the school available to all classes of students. He stipulated that the school could admit only Christian, white, boys, at a time when racial segregation was statewide in public facilities. He instructed that the school should use a holistic approach to learning (the school's motto is \"\"Discere Vivendo\"\", or \"Learning through Living\").\n\nDuring its first years, the school was based in a working farm, where students carried out all the work needed, in addition to other studies. This element was soon eliminated. Indian Springs opened in 1952 with ten staff members and sixty students. The first director of the school was Louis \"Doc\" Armstrong. He made several changes to Woodward's original plans for the school. He developed a curriculum as a preparatory school and opened admissions to Jewish boys.\n\nWhen the school was founded, most private and public facilities were segregated in Alabama. When white parents were trying to avoid integrated public schools following the US Supreme Court ruling in \"Brown v. Board of Education\" (1954), some sent their children to this school as a kind of segregation academy. The restrictions on enrollment were sequentially abolished by 1976, both by actions of the first director and to comply with the Supreme Court ruling and later federal civil rights legislation in 1964.\n\nIndian Springs School's campus is on in northern Shelby County, south of downtown Birmingham. Through the 1970s, the school was remote and surrounded by the woodlands of its campus, in addition to Oak Mountain State Park abutting its southern boundary. In the late 1970s, facing increasing debts and possible bankruptcy because of decreased enrollment, the school sold hundreds of acres surrounding the campus.\n\nInstruction takes place in seven academic buildings, which house 23 classrooms, a new science center, a concert hall, a theater, two student lounges, a college center, a technology lab, a 19,000-volume library, and special studios for chorus, art, photography, and drama. The athletic facilities include two gymnasiums, with two basketball courts, two volleyball courts, and two weight rooms. The campus has six new tennis courts, a competition soccer field, a baseball field, a softball field, a cross country track, and a practice field/track. A new organic orchard, Fertile Minds, complements the greenhouse in producing food for the students. In 2006, new dorms for both boys and girls were opened.\n\nFor school year 2019-20, the tuition per year is $24,800 for day students, $45,900 for Alabama resident boarding students, $51,500 for non-Alabama domestic boarding students, and $58,200 for international board students. There are annual bus and meal plan fees that are not included. Tuition fluctuates yearly.\n\nAfter an internal investigation by at third party, Indian Springs released a report accusing former faculty members of sexual misconduct.\n\nThe demographic breakdown of the 297 students enrolled in 2015-16 was:\n\n\nNotable alumni include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306393", "title": "Spin-stabilisation", "text": "Spin-stabilisation\n\nSpin-stabilisation is the method of stabilizing a satellite or launch vehicle by means of spin. For most satellite applications this approach has been superseded by three-axis stabilisation. It is also used in non-satellite applications such as rifle and artillery.\n\nDespinning can be achieved by various techniques, including yo-yo de-spin.\n\nOn rockets with a solid motor upper stage, spin stabilization is used to keep the motor from drifting off course as they don't have their own thrusters. Usually small rockets are used to spin up the spacecraft and rocket then fire the rocket and send the craft off.\n\nRockets that use spin stabilization\n\nThe Pioneer 4 spacecraft, the second object sent on a lunar flyby in 1959, maintained its attitude using spin-stabilization.\n\nThe Schiaparelli EDM lander was spun up to 2.5 RPM before being ejected from the ExoMars Trace Gas Orbiter prior to its attempted landing on Mars in October 2016.\n\nAnother spin-stabilized spacecraft is Juno, which arrived at Jupiter orbit in 2016.\n\nIn operation as a third stage, the Star 48 rocket booster sits on top of spin table, and before it is separated it is spun up to stabilize it during the separation from the previous stage.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306399", "title": "North Meadowbrook Terrace, Florida", "text": "North Meadowbrook Terrace, Florida\n\nNorth Meadowbrook Terrace is an unincorporated community in northern Clay County, Florida, United States. The community is just south of the border of Jacksonville and is combined with Bellair and Meadowbrook Terrace, to form the census-designated place of Bellair-Meadowbrook Terrace by the U.S. Census Bureau. According to Rand McNally, the latest population estimate for this separate community is approximately 5,000.\n\nThe ZIP code serving the community is 32073, and the local area code is 904.\n"}
{"id": "2306400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306400", "title": "Dead Ringer (album)", "text": "Dead Ringer (album)\n\nDead Ringer is the second studio album by Meat Loaf released in September 1981. It is the second of four albums written entirely by Jim Steinman. The album cover was designed by comic book artist and horror illustrator Bernie Wrightson.\n\nSteinman started to work on \"Bad for Good\", the album that was supposed to be the follow-up to 1977's \"Bat Out of Hell\", in 1978. During that time, a combination of touring, drugs and exhaustion had caused Meat Loaf to lose his voice. Without a singer, and pressured by the record company, Steinman decided that he should sing on \"Bad for Good\" himself, and write a new album for Meat Loaf. This album was \"Dead Ringer\", which was later released in 1981, after the release of \"Bad for Good\".\n\nAfter playing the role of Travis Redfish in the movie \"Roadie\" (which had cameos by Debbie Harry, Roy Orbison and Hank Williams, Jr., but was still a box office flop), Meat Loaf got his voice back, got off drugs, played softball, and started to work on his new album in 1980. Steinman had written five new songs which, in addition to a new, re-recorded version of \"More Than You Deserve\" (which Meat Loaf had sung in the musical with the same name) and a reworked monologue, formed the album \"Dead Ringer\". The album was produced by Meat Loaf and Stephan Galfas, with backing tracks produced by Jimmy Iovine and Steinman. In 1976, Meat Loaf appeared on the track \"Keeper Keep Us\" from the Intergalactic Touring Band's self-titled album, which was produced by Galfas.\n\nFour singles were released from \"Dead Ringer\": \"Dead Ringer for Love\" (featuring Cher), \"I'm Gonna Love Her for Both of Us\", \"Read 'Em and Weep\" and \"Peel Out\". The album reached number 1 in the UK.\n\nThe tour for this album also marked the beginning of his long-running collaboration with pianist Paul Jacobs, as both sideman and songwriter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306405", "title": "Lenny Hart", "text": "Lenny Hart\n\nLeonard \"Lenny\" Hart (September 19, 1919 – February 2, 1975) was a drummer who owned and operated Hart Music, selling drums and musical instruments in San Carlos, California. He was the father of Mickey Hart, one of the percussionists for the Grateful Dead. Lenny Hart was also the Grateful Dead's original money manager. In March, 1970, he disappeared along with approximately US$155,000 of the group's profits.\n\nHart was located by a private detective and arrested in San Diego on July 26, 1971, while baptizing people and using the name \"Rev. Lenny B. Hart\". He was convicted of criminal embezzlement and sentenced to six months in jail.\n\nThe Grateful Dead song \"He's Gone\" is based on Lenny Hart's embezzlement of band money and subsequent disappearance. As a result of the fiasco, Mickey Hart, feeling ashamed of his father's actions, left the band in February 1971, not returning to the group on a full-time basis until 1974.\n\nLenny Hart died of natural causes on February 2, 1975. He had been teaching music in Mill Valley since his release from prison. According to Dennis McNally, \"Mickey went to the funeral home, cleared the room, took out the snakewood sticks that had been his inheritance, played a traditional rudimental drum piece, \"The Downfall of Paris\" on Lenny's coffin, and split.\"\n"}
{"id": "2306417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306417", "title": "Gravity-gradient stabilization", "text": "Gravity-gradient stabilization\n\nGravity-gradient stabilization (a.k.a. \"tidal stabilization\") is a method of stabilizing artificial satellites or space tethers in a fixed orientation using only the orbited body's mass distribution and gravitational field. The main advantage over using active stabilization with propellants, gyroscopes or reaction wheels is the low use of power and resources.\n\nThe idea is to use the Earth's gravitational field and tidal forces to keep the spacecraft aligned in the desired orientation. The gravity of the Earth decreases according to the inverse-square law, and by extending the long axis perpendicular to the orbit, the \"lower\" part of the orbiting structure will be more attracted to the Earth. The effect is that the satellite will tend to align its axis of minimum moment of inertia vertically.\n\nThe first experimental attempt to use the technique on a human spaceflight was performed on September 13, 1966, on the US Gemini 11 mission, by attaching the Gemini spacecraft to its Agena target vehicle by a tether. The attempt was a failure, as insufficient gradient was produced to keep the tether taut.\n\nThe technique was first successfully used in a near-geosynchronous orbit on the Department of Defense Gravity Experiment (DODGE) satellite in July 1967.\n\nIt was first used for low Earth orbit and tested unsuccessfully for geosynchronous orbit in the Applications Technology Satellites ATS-2, ATS-4 and ATS-5 from 1966 until 1969.\n\nThe lunar orbiter Explorer 49 launched in 1973 was gravity gradient oriented (Z axis parallel to local vertical).\n\nLong Duration Exposure Facility (LDEF) used this method for 3-axis stabilization; yaw about the vertical axis was stabilized.\n\nAn example of gravity-gradient stabilization was attempted during NASA's TSS-1 mission in July 1992. The project failed because of tether deployment problems. In 1996 another mission, TSS-1R, was attempted but failed when the tether broke. Just prior to tether separation, the tension on the tether was about 65 N (14.6 lbs).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306420", "title": "Beta-Hydride elimination", "text": "Beta-Hydride elimination\n\nβ-Hydride elimination is a reaction in which an alkyl group bonded to a metal centre is converted into the corresponding metal-bonded hydride and an alkene. The alkyl must have hydrogens on the β-carbon. For instance butyl groups can undergo this reaction but methyl groups cannot. The metal complex must have an empty (or vacant) site \"cis\" to the alkyl group for this reaction to occur.\n\nThe β-hydride elimination can either be a vital step in a reaction or an unproductive side reaction. The Shell higher olefin process relies on β-hydride elimination to produce α-olefins which are used to produce detergents. Illustrative of a sometimes undesirable β-hydride elimination, β-hydride elimination in Ziegler–Natta polymerization results in polymers of decreased molecular weight. In the case of nickel- and palladium-catalyzed couplings of aryl halides with alkyl Grignard reagents, the β-hydride elimination can lower the yield. The production of branched polymers from ethylene relies on chain walking, a key step of which is β-hydride elimination.\n\nIn some cases, β-hydride elimination is the first in a series of steps. For instance in the synthesis of RuHCl(CO)(PPh) from ruthenium trichloride, triphenylphosphine and 2-methoxyethanol, an intermediate alkoxide complex undergoes a β-hydride elimination to form the hydride ligand and the pi-bonded aldehyde which then is later converted into the carbonyl (carbon monoxide) ligand.\n\nSeveral strategies exist for avoiding β-hydride elimination. The most common strategy is to employ alkyl ligands that do not have any hydrogen atoms at the β position. Common substituents include methyl and neopentyl. β-Hydride elimination is also inhibited when the reaction would produce a strained alkene. This situation is illustrated by the stability of metal complexes containing norbornyl ligands, where the β-hydride elimination product would violate Bredt's rule.\nBulky alkyl ligands, such as \"tert\"-butyl or trimethylsilyl, may prohibit the hydrogen atom from approaching a coplanar configuration with respect to the metal, and the α and β atoms. If the metal center does not have empty coordination sites, for example by the complex already having an 18-electron configuration, β-hydride elimination is not possible as well.\n\nIn some cases, the coligands can impose geometries that inhibit β-hydride elimination. For the above example, the unwanted β-hydride elimination is prevented by using a diphosphine where the two phosphorus atoms are fixed apart in space. One way of doing this is to use a trans spanning ligand such as Xantphos. As these metal complexes traditionally form square planar geometries, no vacant site cis to the alkyl group can be formed. Hence the β-hydride elimination is prevented. (See \"trans\"-spanning ligand.)\n"}
{"id": "2306421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306421", "title": "Edgaras Jankauskas", "text": "Edgaras Jankauskas\n\nEdgaras Jankauskas (born 12 March 1975) is a Lithuanian former professional footballer, and is a manager.\n\nA powerful striker who excelled in the physical side of the game, he was also relatively skilled. Other than in his own he played professionally in nine countries, and represented the Lithuania national team for almost 20 years.\n\nWhilst with Porto, Jankauskas made history as the first Lithuanian footballer to win the Champions League, in 2004. Ten years later, he began working as a full-time manager.\n\nBorn in Vilnius, Lithuanian Soviet Socialist Republic, Soviet Union, Jankauskas moved to local FK Žalgiris' youth ranks at 16, from neighbouring FK Panerys. In 1996 he joined PFC CSKA Moscow, and later spent a further year in the Russian capital with FC Torpedo.\n\nJankauskas signed with Club Brugge KV in 1997, and helped the club win the Belgian Pro League in his first season. However, in January 2000, he became the most expensive Lithuanian player of all time when Real Sociedad paid €2.4 million for his services.\n\nAfter another year and a half in San Sebastián, Jankauskas was loaned to S.L. Benfica for the 2001–02 season, and the following year was signed by FC Porto, under manager José Mourinho. Although not always a regular starter, he made an important contribution to a side which conquered all in Portugal, winning the Primeira Liga and Taça de Portugal double in 2002–03 and the national championship in the following campaign.\n\nJankauskas also helped Porto to an unprecedented run of European success and, while he missed selection for the 2003 UEFA Cup final-winning squad, he was a substitute when the Dragons won the UEFA Champions League against AS Monaco FC in the following year.\n\nAfter the departure of Mourinho, Jankauskas fell out of favor in Porto and joined OGC Nice on loan, but he failed to settle in France and eventually signed for Scottish Premier League club Heart of Midlothian – via FBK Kaunas – in 2005. In a complex deal, he was loaned to Hearts at the behest of Vladimir Romanov, who controlled both clubs, and spent the next two seasons in Edinburgh.\n\nIn 2005–06, Jankauskas' experience and goals helped Hearts to win the Scottish Cup and achieve Champions league qualification by finishing second in the league. The following campaign was less successful for him, as injuries and indifferent form limited his appearances; after his Kaunas and Hearts contracts expired in June 2007, he signed with Cyprus's AEK Larnaca FC.\n\nOn 30 January 2008, Jankauskas joined Portuguese League team C.F. Os Belenenses. He terminated his contract after only a few months, moving to Latvia's Skonto FC in the summer after claiming he wanted to play closer to his homeland.\n\nAt the start of 2009, Jankauskas was working on obtaining his coaching badges, and pondering his retirement. In June, however, it was revealed that he would be heading to the United States for a trial with Major League Soccer club New England Revolution. On 28 June 2009, pending the arrival of his P1 Visa and ITC documents, a deal was arranged for the 34-year-old; his week 26 goal against the Kansas City Wizards was nominated for the MLS Goal of the Year Award.\n\nOn 30 September 2010, Jankauskas was released by the Revolution. He moved to FC Fakel Voronezh in the Russian second level shortly after, retiring after only a couple of months.\n\nIn July 2012, Jankauskas returned to Hearts as an assistant manager, leaving his post at the end of the season.\n\nJankauskas was an important part of the Lithuanian national side since 1991 when, at the age of just 16, he helped the country to the 1991 Baltic Cup, playing the last 30 minutes of the 4–1 final win against Estonia. He scored his first international goal on 5 October 1996, in a 1998 FIFA World Cup qualifier against Iceland (2–0), and went on to net a further nine in 56 appearances, in eighteen years of play (he did not appear for the national team, however, from 1992 to 1995).\n\nOn 12 January 2016, after a brief spell at club level with FK Trakai, Jankauskas replaced Igoris Pankratjevas at the helm of Lithuania. On 4 December 2018, he was dismissed.\n\nŽalgiris\n\nClub Brugge\n\nPorto\n\nHearts\n\nLithuania\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306431", "title": "Ronnie Barrett", "text": "Ronnie Barrett\n\nRonnie G. Barrett (born 1954) is an American firearms manufacturer, the founder of Barrett Firearms Manufacturing of Christiana, Tennessee and the designer of the first .50 caliber rifle Barrett M82 for civilian use.\n\nBarrett was born in Murfreesboro, Tennessee in 1954, and graduated from Murfreesboro Central High School. He started his career in 1972 as a professional photographer. In 1982, while he owned a photography studio, he got his initial inspiration to create what would become the Barrett signature product. On January 1, 1982, when Barrett was photographing a river patrol gunboat on the Stones River near Nashville, Tennessee, he created an award-winning picture that made him start thinking about the .50 caliber cartridge because of two Browning machine guns mounted prominently on that boat.\n\nSince no commercially available .50 caliber rifle existed at that time, he decided to make a semi-automatic weapon. With no background in manufacturing or engineering, Barrett sketched a cross-sectioned, full-size rifle, adding different components to it. Once he decided on the concept, he approached some machine shops with his drawings. They told him that if his ideas were any good, someone smarter would have already designed it. However, this did not diminish his determination.\n\nA few days later, Bob Mitchell, a tool and die maker and machinist in Smyrna, Tennessee, agreed to help. After their regular job responsibilities, the men would start working on Barrett’s ideas, sometimes laboring together all night in a one-bay garage using a small mill and lathe. Barrett also found support from a sheet metal fabricator who allowed him to visit the owner’s shop and work directly with one employee, Harry Watson. The resulting gun was the shoulder-fired Barrett rifle, which was created in less than four months.\n\nWhile fine-tuning the first prototype rifle, Barrett began designing a second prototype that featured an improved and sleek exterior and other improvements learned from the first prototype. He made a video of the first prototype being fired, then prepared the second prototype so it would sit on a table. He displayed the latter at a Houston, Texas, gun show where three people gave him deposits to make a rifle for them. With a limited amount of money, Barrett set up a small shop at his residence in a gravel-floored garage. He began by building a batch of 30 rifles, mainly because the two wooden gun racks he made in his father’s cabinet shop held 15 rifles each.\nUsing his hand-drawing of the new rifle, he placed an advertisement in Shotgun News and soon sold-out the first batch. Barrett was contacted by the CIA who purchased a number of rifles for the Afghan Mujahideen for use in their war against the Soviet Union.\n\nIn the last 100 years, only seven individuals have invented firearms adopted by the United States Military. Besides Ronnie Barrett, the other six are John Browning, John C. Garand, Eugene Stoner, John Taliaferro Thompson, Melvin Maynard Johnson JR, and Eugene Reising. The first three referenced had their designs perfected and mass-produced by either the U.S. government or another manufacturing company. Of these seven designers, only Browning, Garand, Thompson, and Barrett have entered colloquial language in reference to their weapons. With the exception of two of Stoner's designs that were bought for limited use from ArmaLite, Barrett is the only one of the group to create, manufacture, market and mass-produce his firearm for the United States government.\n\nBarrett married former Tennessee State Rep. Donna Rowland during 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306432", "title": "Oliver Schröder", "text": "Oliver Schröder\n\nOliver Schröder (born 11 June 1980 in West Berlin, West Germany) is a retired German footballer, currently serving as assistant coach for the under-16 team of Hertha BSC.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306447", "title": "Peter Messerli", "text": "Peter Messerli\n\nPeter Messerli was Vice-President of the European Patent Office (EPO) and head of the Boards of Appeal of the EPO known as DG3 (Directorate-General, 3, Appeals) from 1996 until his retirement at the end of November 2011.\n\nHe was head of the Patent Division at the Swiss Federal Institute for Intellectual Property before joining the EPO.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306449", "title": "Sydney Chaplin (American actor)", "text": "Sydney Chaplin (American actor)\n\nSydney Earl Chaplin (March 30, 1926 – March 3, 2009) was an American actor. He was the second son of Charlie Chaplin and Lita Grey. One of his major roles was his father's film \"Limelight\" (1952). In theater, Chaplin won the Tony Award for Best Featured Actor in a Musical for his 1957 performance in \"Bells Are Ringing\".\n\nBorn in 1926 in Beverly Hills, California, Chaplin was the second son of Charlie Chaplin and Lita Grey. His parents had married in November 1924 when Lita became pregnant with Sydney's elder brother Charles. Sydney was born five weeks prematurely, 10 months after the birth of his older brother. He was named for his father's half-brother, Sydney Chaplin. His parents divorced a year after his birth. He later had eight half-siblings from their father's fourth marriage to Oona O'Neill.\n\nHis mother insisted on calling him \"Tommy\" due to her distaste for his father's half-brother Sydney, after whom he had been officially named. Sydney and his older brother were brought up mostly by their maternal grandmother, while his mother attempted to advance her career as a singer. The family spent most of one year in Nice, where the boys became fluent in French.\n\nChaplin was educated at boarding schools: Black-Foxe Military Institute and the Lawrenceville School in New Jersey, and at the public North Hollywood High School.\n\nAfter serving in the United States Army during World War II in Europe, Chaplin returned to California, where he became involved in acting both on stage and in films. He gained early acting experience in The Circle Theater, now known as El Centro Theatre, including acting in three plays directed by his father. \n\nHe also appeared in several Broadway productions, including \"Bells Are Ringing\" opposite Judy Holliday in 1957, for which he won a Best Performance by a Featured Actor in a Musical. He played in \"Funny Girl\" opposite Barbra Streisand in 1964, for which he was nominated for a Tony Award. Chaplin also had supporting roles in two of his father's films, \"Limelight\" (1952) and \"A Countess from Hong Kong\" (1967).\n\nChaplin retired from acting in the 1970s. In the 1980s, he owned and managed a restaurant, Chaplin's, in Palm Springs, California. \n\nFollowing his retirement from acting, Chaplin seldom made public appearances. Exceptions included his attendance at Cinecon in Los Angeles in 1998, and at the Cineteca di Bologna 2002 festival (Il Cinema Ritrovato), which mounted a fiftieth-anniversary screening of \"Limelight.\" He appeared also at the San Francisco Silent Film Festival in 2004, where he spoke after screenings of his father's film \"The Circus\" to promote film historian Jeffrey Vance's Chaplin books.\n\nIn 1960 Chaplin married French dancer and actress Noëlle Adam, by whom he had one son, Stephan (born 1960). In 1985 this marriage ended in divorce. \n\nHe became involved with Margaret Beebe in 1984. They married in 1998, and remained married until Chaplin's death.\n\nChaplin helped complete and publish his mother's 1998 autobiography, \"Wife of the Life of the Party\". He also wrote the book's foreword, where he shared some of his own history and private thoughts on his parents.\n\nOn March 3, 2009, Chaplin died at his home in Rancho Mirage, California, of a stroke, at the age of 82.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306450", "title": "VDL DB250", "text": "VDL DB250\n\nThe VDL DB250 (originally the DAF DB250) is a twin-axle double-decker bus chassis that was manufactured by VDL Bus & Coach.\n\nThe DAF DB250 was launched in October 1991 and originally only available with Optare Spectra bodywork with 260 built, mainly for operators in the United Kingdom although 31 were sold to Istanbul, and İzmir, both Turkey. It later became available with the Northern Counties Palatine body. \n\nThe DB250LF, the low-floor version of the DB250, was the first low-floor double-decker bus chassis available in the United Kingdom. The DB250LF is readily identified by the centrally-exiting exhaust at the rear, which can cause problems with extreme changes of slope. A revised version of DB250LF was launched in 2004 as the DB250+. The design has received a number of modifications, one of which is the use of independent front suspension.\n\nThe first DB250LFs received Optare Spectra body, which was sold exclusively on the DB250. The first low-floor variant entered service on 4 February 1998 with Abus of Bristol, narrowly beating a Travel West Midlands DB250LF to operate the first low floor double-decker bus service in the UK.\n\nLater DB250 chassis were fitted with Alexander ALX400, Plaxton President, East Lancs Myllennium Lowlander and Wright Pulsar Gemini bodies. The development of a Wright alternative arose because Arriva wished to buy both the Wright body and DB250 chassis. Unable to do so, it instead purchased over 100 Wright Eclipse Gemini bodied Volvo B7TLs. Wright subsequently developed the Pulsar Gemini in 2003 in order to win more orders from Arriva.\n\nArriva London purchased 632 between 1998 and 2005 with Alexander ALX400 (389), Plaxton President (110) and Wright Pulsar Gemini (133) bodywork. Arriva Midlands and Arriva Yorkshire also purchased examples.\n\nOther sizeable operators were London Central (24), Reading Buses (26), Travel West Midlands (21) and Wilts & Dorset (78).\n\nThe DB250LF chassis was also adopted by Wrightbus for the development of its hybrid-powered double-decker bus, the Wright Pulsar Gemini HEV.\n\nProduction of the DB250 ended in 2006, although examples continued entering service until 2008. Its successor, the Wright Gemini 2 integral double decker with VDL chassis modules, was launched in November 2008.\n\nA number of DB250s have entered preservation at the end of their working lives, including a former Harris Bus and TM Travel example with Northern Counties Palatine 2 bodywork, registration P337 ROO, which is currently part of the preservation collection at the Town & District Transport Trust in Great Harwood, Lancashire. It is currently restored to an operational condition in Harris Bus' Thurrock Link livery as of January 2019. A former M Travel DAF DB250 with Optare Spectra bodywork, registration MUI 4842 (originally L752 JRD, one of only two Spectras built to coach specification for Reading Transport), is currently in preservation at the Keighley Bus Museum. Former Wilts & Dorset DAF/Spectras 3124 and 3127 [L124/7 ELJ] are currently undergoing restoration in Kent and Somerset respectively. \n\nSeveral DB250LFs have also entered preservation, the first of which was DLA147 [V347 DGT], new to Arriva London in 1999, but resided as a spares vehicle at Arriva Kent & Surrey's Tunbridge Wells garage until preservation in August 2014. Former London North DLA225 [X425 FGP] latterly with Arriva Tunbridge Wells as 6250 was preserved in October 2016. Other DLAs include DLA23 [S223 JUA], DLA210 [W438 WGJ] part of the Bromley Bus Preservation Group and DLA288 [Y488 UGC], later M Travel, which is also currently part of the Town & District Transport Trust preservation collection where it is currently awaiting restoration as of January 2019. \n\nAs of 4th January 2020, the very first DAF-bodied ALX400, DLA1 [R101 GNW] entered preservation in Kent. \n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2306452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306452", "title": "Stan Zin", "text": "Stan Zin\n\nStanley Eugene Zin is a Canadian economist. He is the William R. Berkley Professor Economics and Business at the Leonard N. Stern School of Business, New York University.\n\nHis research interests are in the areas of asset pricing and macroeconomics. He is well known for his work on Epstein–Zin preferences which provide a recursive specification of a utility function which separates the elasticity of intertemporal substitution from the coefficient of relative risk aversion. For this contribution he was awarded the Frisch Medal by the Econometric Society.\n\nPreviously, from 1988 to 2009 he was the Richard M. Cyert and Morris H. DeGroot Professor of Economics and Statistics at the David A. Tepper School of Business (previously the Graduate School of Industrial Administration) at Carnegie Mellon University, and is a Research Associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research.\n\nZin received his undergraduate education at the University of Windsor (B.A. in Economics; 1979) and his graduate training at Wayne State University (Master of Economics; 1981), and the University of Toronto (Ph.D in Economics; 1987).\n\n"}
{"id": "2306461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306461", "title": "Tomi Joutsen", "text": "Tomi Joutsen\n\nTomi Joutsen (born 30 April 1975) is a Finnish musician, perhaps best known as the vocalist/frontman of the heavy metal band Amorphis (2005–), although also a member of other metal bands including Corpse Molester Cult (2008-), as their guitarist and backing vocalist, and Hallatar (2017-), as their vocalist. He was formerly the vocalist for the bands Käsi / Funeral Jacket (1995-1999) and Nevergreen / Sinisthra (2002-2008) and the drummer for the bands The Candles Burning Blue and Feelings.\n\nJoutsen performs both harsh and clean vocals, a contrast to the more traditional heavy metal and punk rock-style high-pitched vocals of the previous Amorphis singer, Pasi Koskinen. Joutsen's voice style is very deep, similar to gothic metal vocals in the vein of Nick Holmes' from Paradise Lost and Peter Steele of Type O Negative.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306465", "title": "Sons of Norway", "text": "Sons of Norway\n\nSons of Norway (\"Sønner av Norge\"), founded in 1895 as the Independent Order of the Sons of Norway, is a fraternal organization principally representing people of Norwegian heritage in the United States and Canada. The organization includes in its mission the promotion and preservation of the heritage and culture of Norway and other Nordic countries and to provide life insurance and other financial products to its members. The organization is classified as a non-profit 501(c)(8) fraternal beneficiary society.\n\nCurrently, the Sons of Norway has nearly 400 lodges in the United States, Canada and Norway. With over 57,000 members, the Sons of Norway is the largest Norwegian organization outside of Norway.\n\nThe Sons of Norway was founded as the Independent Order of the Sons of Norway. The organization was founded by 18 members on January 16, 1895, in Minneapolis, Minnesota, to insure each other when they were unable to secure life insurance on their own. Membership was originally open to males of Norwegian descent between the ages of 20 and 50 who were capable of giving proof of being morally upright, in good health, and capable of supporting a family.\n\nA second lodge was established in South Minneapolis in 1899 and a third was founded in the northeastern section of the city in 1900. The Minneapolis model quickly spread and by the end of 1900 some 12 lodges of the organization had been established in cities and towns with substantial Norwegian-American populations across the American Upper Midwest.\n\nFrom its origins in Minnesota, the organization spread to both coasts. A lodge of the order was established as far away as the then American territory of Alaska.\n\nIn 1903 a group in Seattle asked the Midwestern group for a charter, however, they did not wish to have compulsory insurance for the members, which was anathema to the parent order. The Seattle group organized as Leif Erikson Lodge No. 1 in spite of the Midwest lodges and with other West Coast lodges set up the Grand Lodge of the Sons of Norway of the Pacific Coast. The two orders quarreled until they held a convention in Superior, Wisconsin in June 1909, merging the next year.\n\nBy the time of the outbreak of World War I in 1914, the Sons of Norway claimed a membership of about 12,000.\n\nOriginally established as a secret order, most of the ritualistic aspects of the order were removed in the early part of the twentieth century at the request of the Rev. Hans Gerhard Stub, president of the Norwegian Lutheran Synod.\n\nThe organization published an official monthly magazine, \"Sønner av Norge\" (Sons of Norway), which kept members abreast of activities of the group. Other activities included regular lectures on historical, cultural, and literary topics; essay and speech contests for students; and organized festivities for various national Norwegian holidays. The Sons of Norway also worked to expand the instruction of the Norwegian language in public schools. As of the 2000s, the magazine is named \"Viking\".\n\nIn December 1938, the Sons of Norway absorbed the American auxiliary of The Knights of the White Cross Order (\"Riddere av Det Hvite Kors\") which had been founded in Chicago in 1863.\n\nWomen were admitted to local groups as early as 1916, in areas where the female auxiliary was unorganized. \"Daughters of Norway\" lodges in the Midwest were merged with the Sons of Norway in 1950 and a system of junior lodges was created in 1956. The Grand Lodge of the Daughters of Norway, which dates to 1908, continues as a separate association.\n\nThe organization slowly expanded across the United States and includes lodges in Canada and Norway. In the 2000s, Sons of Norway continued to make an effort to build on the traditions of the past while at the same time focusing on modern Norwegian–American lives.\n\nMembership is open to everyone with an interest in Norwegian or Norwegian–American culture. Currently, the Sons of Norway has nearly 400 lodges in the United States, Canada and Norway. There were 90,000 members in 1995, and 64,186 members in 2010.\n\nThe benefits offered by the Sons of Norway have fluctuated over the years. They originally offered life, sickness and accident insurance but in 1934 restricted coverage to life insurance only. Gradually other benefits were restored.\n\nAs of December 31, 2013:\nIn 2013, Sons of Norway lodges and members gave more than 500,000 hours of volunteerism and $1 million to their communities. The Sons of Norway also maintains a large library of Nordic works and retirement home called \"Norse Home\" located in Seattle.\n\nThe International Lodge Convention is held every two years, usually in August. Each District holds a convention every two years as well.\n\nHere are the locations of recent international conventions:\n\n\nSome of the Sons of Norway's buildings are historic and/or are otherwise notable, including:\n"}
{"id": "2306470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306470", "title": "Qiviut", "text": "Qiviut\n\nQiviuq [sg] or qiviut [pl] ( ; Inuktitut syllabics: ᕿᕕᐅᖅ; Inuinnaqtun: qiviuq; Inupiaq: qiviu or qiviuq (sometimes spelled qiveut)) is the inner wool of the muskox. In Inuktitut the same word can be used to refer to the down feathers of birds. \n\nThe muskox has a two-layered coat, and \"qiviut\" refers specifically to the soft underwool beneath the longer outer wool. The muskox sheds this layer of wool each spring. Qiviut is plucked from the coat of the muskox during the molt or gathered from objects the animals have brushed against; unlike sheep, the animals are not sheared. Much of the commercially available qiviut comes from Canada, and is obtained from the pelts of muskoxen after hunts. In Alaska, qiviut is obtained from farmed animals or gathered from the wild during the molt.\n\nQiviut is stronger and warmer than sheep's wool, and softer than cashmere wool. Wild muskoxen have qiviut fibers approximately 18 micrometres in diameter. Females and young animals have slightly finer wool. Unlike sheep's wool, it does not shrink in water at any temperature, but this means that it also is not useful for felting.\n\nIt is most commonly used for hats and scarves, and is among the softest as well as warmest wools. It is very expensive; a high quality knitted scarf can cost more than $300 U.S., but will last over 20 years with good care.\n\nAn adult muskox can produce of qiviut a year. Qiviut is produced by the muskox's secondary hair follicles, which are not associated with sebaceous glands, and therefore is a much drier fiber than wool, having only about 7 percent oils. The hair follicle density is very high (approximately ) and qiviut is shed in a tightly synchronized spring molting period. The qiviut will loosen from the animal's skin and pull away slightly, creating a \"spectacled\" look around the eyes and becoming visible all over the body at the surface of the pelt. At this stage of the molt, the undercoat is a short but relatively uniform distance from the skin. This lends itself to combing the qiviut from the animal in a single large sheet. If not combed, the qiviut will begin to fall out in clumps or be rubbed off by the animal, and may be plucked off the ground or bushes, but qiviut collected this way is of lower quality and requires more cleaning.\n\nAt the Robert G. White Large Animal Research Station (LARS), a modified bison crush is used to gently but firmly hold the muskoxen in place, and the pelt combed out using a long-toothed comb or hair pick. After the fleece is removed, it is cleaned by hand, removing vegetation and other foreign matter, and then dehaired. Dehairing is the removal of intermediate hairs (greater than in diameter). Dehairing is accomplished by carding as one would cashmere. Mechanical carding can cause breakage and weaken and roughen the qiviut. Because the pelt is combed rather than shaved, very few guard hairs come out with the qiviut using this method. Pelts from hunted animals are shaved, so the dehairing process in this case is more laborious. After dehairing, the qiviut may be cleaned again, if necessary.\n\nThe raw, cleaned qiviut is spun and then the yarn is washed. Natural qiviut is soft grayish brown in color, but it takes dye well and can be found for sale in myriad colors. Bleaching weakens the fiber, however, so many spinners and knitters recommend using only overdyed natural qiviut, which has darker, more subdued colors.\n\nDomestication of the muskox was begun with the Musk Ox Project, headed by John J. Teal, Jr with the first domestic muskox farm in Fairbanks, Alaska. The project continues at the muskox farm in Palmer, Alaska. Oomingmak, the Musk Ox Producers' Cooperative, was formed in the late 1960s by indigenous women on Nunivak Island, with the help of Dr. Teal and Mrs. L. Schell. It is a knitting cooperative that works with qiviut and is still in operation today. The cooperative has its headquarters in Anchorage, Alaska and is owned by approximately 200 native Alaskans from many remote villages in Alaska. The name of the cooperative comes from the Inuit language word for muskox, \"umiŋmak\", \"the animal with skin like a beard.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2306479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306479", "title": "Jonas Thern", "text": "Jonas Thern\n\nJonas Magnus Thern (born 20 March 1967) is a Swedish football manager and former professional player who played as a midfielder between 1985 and 1999. Thern also earned 75 caps and scored six goals for Sweden between 1987 and 1997. He captained the Sweden squad that finished third at the 1994 FIFA World Cup in the United States. Thern's playing career took him from Malmö FF in Sweden to FC Zürich in Switzerland and further in Europe to Benfica in Portugal, Napoli and Roma in Italy and finally Rangers in Scotland where he finished his career. After his playing career Thern coached his youth club IFK Värnamo for two periods, between 2000 and 2001 and again in 2010 as well as Halmstads BK between 2002 and 2003. He has also acted as a youth coach at IFK Värnamo, a sports commentator as well as a teacher.\n\nBorn and raised in the town of Värnamo in southern central Sweden, Thern started his professional career in 1985 when he joined the classic Swedish club of Malmö FF, where he stayed for four years, earning him two titles in the 1986 and 1988 Allsvenskan. In 1989, he won the Guldbollen as Sweden's Footballer of the Year.\n\nIn 1989 he Benfica. He was part of a successful group of Scandinavian players that played for Benfica at the time, composed of Danish international Michael Manniche (1983–1987), and the Swedish \"armada\"; Mats Magnusson (1987–1992), Thern (1989–1992), Glenn Strömberg (1982–84) and Stefan Schwarz (1990–1994) alongside coach Sven-Göran Eriksson (1982–1984 and 1989–1992).\n\nThern went on to play in Italy for Napoli and Roma but moved to Scotland to join for Rangers on 1 July 1997, however, his career was cut short by injuries.\n\nFor Sweden, he played in the 1990 FIFA World Cup and Euro 1992, and then won the bronze medal in the 1994 FIFA World Cup in the United States. Thern also competed for Sweden at the 1988 Summer Olympics. Thern was the Sweden captain for seven years, between 1990 and 1997.\n\nAfter he retired as a player he became head coach for IFK Värnamo between 2000 and 2001 and Halmstads BK 2001–2003.\n\nHe has also worked as a sports commentator and as a teacher.\n\nJonas has a son, Simon, who is also a footballer. His daughter, Alicia, is an equestrian.\n\nMalmö\n\nBenfica\n\nRangers\n\nSweden\n\nIndividual\n"}
{"id": "2306481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306481", "title": "Józefa Kantor", "text": "Józefa Kantor\n\nJózefa Kantor (born March 6, 1896 in Tarnów - September 25, 1990) was a Polish teacher, Scoutmaster (harcmistrzyni) founder of the Girl Scouts group \"Mury\".\n\nKantor was arrested on November 9, 1940 by the Gestapo and sent to the Ravensbrück concentration camp (inmate number 7261), where she established the secret Girl Scout group \"Mury\" in November, 1941.\n"}
{"id": "2306482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306482", "title": "Norman Geisler", "text": "Norman Geisler\n\nNorman Leo Geisler (July 21, 1932 – July 1, 2019) was an American Christian systematic theologian and philosopher. He was the co-founder of two non-denominational evangelical seminaries (Veritas International University and Southern Evangelical Seminary). \n\nHe held a Ph.D. in philosophy from Loyola University and made scholarly contributions to the subjects of classical Christian apologetics, systematic theology, the history of philosophy, philosophy of religion, Calvinism, Roman Catholicism, Biblical inerrancy, Bible difficulties, ethics, and more. He was the author, coauthor, or editor of over 90 books and hundreds of articles. \n\nOne of the primary architects of the Chicago Statement on Biblical Inerrancy, Geisler was well noted within the United States evangelical community for his stalwart defense of Biblical inerrancy.\n\nGeisler's education included a Th.B. (1964) from William Tyndale College, B.A. in philosophy (1958) and M.A. in theology (1960) from Wheaton College, and a Ph.D. in philosophy from Loyola University. He had additional graduate work at Wayne State University, the University of Detroit, and Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois.\n\nNorman Leo Geisler was born on July 21, 1932, in Warren, Michigan, a suburb of Detroit. He attended a nondenominational Evangelical church from age nine but was not converted until the age of eighteen. He immediately began attempting to share his faith with others in various evangelistic endeavors—door-to-door, street meetings, and jail service, rescue missions, and Youth for Christ venues. Some of his conversations forced him to realize that he needed to find better answers to the objections he was hearing. He subsequently earned two bachelor's degrees, two master's degrees, and a Doctorate.\n\nGeisler's decades of degree work overlap a professorial career begun at Detroit Bible College (1963–66) and continued at Trinity Evangelical Divinity School (1969–70) and Trinity College (1970–71). He was later Chairman of Philosophy of Religion at Trinity Evangelical Divinity School (1970–79) and Professor of Systematic Theology at Dallas Theological Seminary (1979–88).\n\nIn 1981, Geisler testified in \"the Scopes II trial\" (McLean v. Arkansas Board of Education). Duane Gish, a creationist, remarked: \"Geisler was. . . the lead witness for the creationist side and one of its most brilliant witnesses. His testimony, in my view (I was present during the entire trial), effectively demolished the most important thrust of the case by the ACLU. Unfortunately, in my opinion, no testimony, and no effort by any team of lawyers, no matter how brilliant, could have won the case for the creationist side.\"\n\nGeisler was formerly a president of the Evangelical Theological Society but left the ETS in 2003, after it did not expel Clark Pinnock, who advocated open theism. Geisler also founded and was first president of The Evangelical Philosophical Society. Additionally, he was the founder and first president of the International Society of Christian Apologetics.\n\nIn 1997, Geisler co-authored \"When Cultists Ask: A Popular Handbook on Cultic Misinterpretation\". He contributed to \"The Counterfeit Gospel of Mormonism\".\n\nIn 2008, Geisler co-founded the Veritas Evangelical Seminary located in Santa Ana, California. The seminary offers master's degrees in theological studies, apologetics, biblical studies, and Divinity. Geisler served as Chancellor, Distinguished Professor of Apologetics and Theology, and occupant of the Norman L. Geisler Chair of Christian Apologetics. He retired from this post in May 2019.\n\nGeisler was married to Barbara Jean, and together they had six children. He died of cerebral thrombosis at a hospital in Charlotte, North Carolina on July 1, 2019, 20 days before his 87th birthday. Geisler's funeral was held at Calvary Church in Charlotte, North Carolina. Ravi Zacharias gave the eulogy.\n\nGeisler is known first and foremost as a classical Christian apologist. Between 1970 and 1990 he participated in dozens of public debates and gained a reputation as a defender of theism, biblical miracles, the resurrection of Jesus, and the reliability of the Bible. The first attempt to publish an outline of his apologetic method showed up in an appendix of his 1990 book \"When Skeptics Ask\". The appendix is titled \"Reasoning to Christianity from Ground Zero\" and in it we see a high-level view of the holistic system of classical apologetics he had been developing over the years. The first outline contained fourteen points of argument:\n\n\nThe overview of his system was later streamlined slightly into a 12-point schema. As of 1999, it could be summarized as follows:\n\n\nThese same twelve steps served as the framework for the chapters of the highly popular book \"I Don't Have Enough Faith to be an Atheist\" in 2004 and for Geisler's 2012 e-book \"Twelve Points that Show Christianity is True\".\n\nGeisler was a conservative evangelical scholar who wrote a four-volume systematic theology.\n\nHe defended the full inerrancy of the Bible, being one of the co-founders and framers of the \"Chicago Statement on Biblical Inerrancy\" (1978) and editor of the book \"Inerrancy\" (Zondervan, 1978). More recently, he co-authored \"Defending Inerrancy\" with William Roach (Baker, 2013). He also co-authored (with William Nix) \"General Introduction to the Bible\" (Moody Press, 1986) and \"From God to Us\", revised (Moody, 2012).\n\nGeisler considered himself a \"moderate Calvinist\", as expressed in his book \"Chosen but Free\" (Harvest House, 2001) and \"Systematic Theology, in One Volume\" (Harvest House, 2012). On the Five Points of Calvinism, he believed:\n\n\nGeisler wrote two significant books on ethics: \"Christian Ethics\" and \"The Christian Love Ethic\". He provided his perspective on ethical options, abortion, infanticide, euthanasia, biomedical issues, capital punishment, war, civil disobedience, sexual issues, homosexuality, marriage and divorce, ecology, animal rights, drugs, gambling, pornography, birth control, and more.\n\nOf the six major ethical systems (antinomianism, situationalism, generalism, unqualified absolutism, conflicting absolutism, and graded absolutism), Geisler advocated graded absolutism, which is a theory of moral absolutism which affirms that in moral conflicts we are obligated to perform the higher moral duty. Moral absolutism is the ethical view that certain actions are absolutely right or wrong regardless of other contexts such as their consequences or the intentions behind them. Graded absolutism is moral absolutism but clarifies that a moral absolute, like \"Do not kill\", can be greater or lesser than another moral absolute, like \"Do not lie\". Graded absolutism is also called \"contextual absolutism\" but is not to be confused with situational ethics. The conflict is resolved in acting according to the greater absolute. That is why graded absolutism is also called the \"greater good view\", but is not to be confused with utilitarianism (see also \"prima facie\" right).\n\nGeisler believed the American Revolution was not justified by the standards of either the Bible or just war theory. However, he was not a pacifist, believing that defensive wars are justified but revolutions are not.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306484", "title": "David Twohy", "text": "David Twohy\n\nDavid Neil Twohy ( ; born October 18, 1955) is an American film director and screenwriter.\n\nTwohy was born in Los Angeles County, California. He attended college at California State University, Long Beach, graduating with a degree in radio/television/film.\n\nHis most notable filmmaking credits have been writing \"The Fugitive\", starring Harrison Ford, and writing and directing \"Pitch Black\" and its sequels \"The Chronicles of Riddick\" and \"\"Riddick\"\", all starring Vin Diesel.\n\nHe has a cameo in \"Below\" as the British captain of the rescue ship.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306485", "title": "Skullhead", "text": "Skullhead\n\nSkullhead was a Nazi punk band from the Newcastle area. It was part of the Rock Against Communism (RAC) movement.\n\nFormed in Consett in March 1984, their debut album White Warrior was released in 1987 (released by United Records, a subsidiary of Rock-O-Rama Records). The line-up on the album was Kevin Turner (vocals), Tim Ward (guitar), ‘Spin’ Brown (bass) and Nick Shaw (drums). Skullhead joined the National Front's White Noise Club, and when most of other British RAC bands left to join Blood & Honour, Skullhead remained with the White Noise Club till its end. The band’s second LP Odin’s Law was released in 1991 by United Records. The line-up for this LP was Turner (vocals), Craig Bond (guitar), Pete (guitar), ‘Spin’ Brown (bass) and Raish Carter (drums). Carter had previously been in punk band Red London. The LP was produced by Martin Cross, who later was sentenced to life imprisonment for murder. The band’s final live appearance was in Brandenburg, Germany in 1992.\n\nTurner spent 1989 as an inmate of Acklington Prison, and received a jail term in 1991 for grievous bodily harm after assaulting a man in Consett. Bond was jailed in December 1993 for a racist attack on a group of students in Sunderland. He pleaded guilty to violent disorder. Bond, who was already serving a nine-month sentence for an assault on an anti-fascist, got another three years. Skullhead split-up in 1993. Following the split Turner became a techno MC using the moniker MC Techno T.\n\nTurner reformed Skullhead in 2001 with Frazer Robinson on guitar, Russ on bass and Michael Stoker (also known as Sticks) on drums. Robinson had previously played in north-east RAC band Warhammer, Russ had played in both The Meteors and the Toy Dolls, and Stoker had played in The Meteors, the Toy Dolls and the Whiskey Priests. They did a small tour of Germany, Slovakia and Switzerland and recorded an album titled Returned to Thunder, which was released the following year.\n\n\n\nList of neo-Nazi bands\n\n"}
{"id": "2306497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306497", "title": "Meadowbrook Terrace, Florida", "text": "Meadowbrook Terrace, Florida\n\nThe ZIP code that serves the community is 32073, and the local area code is 904.\n"}
{"id": "2306504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306504", "title": "Losartan", "text": "Losartan\n\nLosartan, sold under the trade name Cozaar among others, is a medication mainly used to treat high blood pressure. It is also used for diabetic kidney disease, heart failure, and left ventricular enlargement. It is taken by mouth. It may be used alone or in addition to other blood pressure medication. Up to six weeks may be required for the full effects to occur.\nCommon adverse effects include muscle cramps, stuffy nose, cough, high blood potassium and anemia. Severe adverse effects may include angioedema, low blood pressure, and kidney problems. Use during pregnancy may result in harm to the baby. Use is not recommended during breastfeeding. It is in the angiotensin receptor blocker family of medication. It works by blocking angiotensin II.\nLosartan was patented in 1986, and approved for medical use in the United States in 1995. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines, the safest and most effective medicines needed in a health system. It is available as a generic medication. The wholesale cost in the developing world is about US$0.28–3.45 per month as of 2015. In the United States, as of 2017, the wholesale cost of a typical dose is $1.13 per month. In 2017, it was the ninth most commonly prescribed medication in the United States, with more than 51 million prescriptions. A version combined with hydrochlorothiazide is available and, in 2017, it was the 67th most commonly prescribed medication in the United States, with more than eleven million prescriptions.\n\nLosartan is used for hypertension, including in people with left ventricular hypertrophy (enlarged heart muscle), and kidney dysfunction among type II diabetics. It may also delay progression of diabetic nephropathy. It is a suitable pharmacological agent for the reduction of renal disease progression in patients with type 2 diabetes, hypertension, and microalbuminuria (>30 mg/24 hours) or proteinuria (>900 mg/24 hours).\n\nAlthough evidence shows calcium channel blockers and thiazide-type diuretics are preferred first-line treatments for most people (due to both efficacy and cost), an angiotensin II receptor antagonist such as losartan is recommended as first-line treatment in people under the age of 55 who cannot tolerate an ACE inhibitor. One study demonstrated losartan was superior to atenolol in the primary prevention of adverse cardiovascular events (myocardial infarction or stroke), with a reduction in cardiovascular morbidity and mortality for a comparable reduction in blood pressure. The maximal effects on blood pressure usually occur within 3–6 weeks of starting losartan.\n\nThe most common adverse effects for losartan in adults are upper respiratory infections, dizziness, and back pain. People with type 2 diabetes and kidney disease may experience diarrhea, fatigue, low blood pressure, low blood glucose, elevated potassium, chest pain, or allergic reaction. Losartan should not be taken by people who are diabetic and taking aliskiren. Anemia may occur, due to inhibition of the renin–angiotensin system. As with other angiotensin receptor blockers, losartan may injure the liver, although this effect appears to be rare. Electrolyte imbalances may occur in people taking losartan with kidney problems. Adverse outcomes do not differ by sex, age or race.\n\nIn October 2014, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issued a black box warning that losartan can cause fetal toxicity, and should be discontinued as soon as pregnancy is detected. Using losartan while pregnant could result in fetal injury or death.\n\nOverdosing would most likely result in decreased blood pressure, which could manifest as an increased heart rate, dizziness, feeling light headed, or loss of consciousness. Mice studies showed that lethality occurred at about 44 to 170 times the maximum recommended dose after the mice weight were adjusted.\n\nLosartan may have adverse interactions with phenobarbital, rifampin, or fluconazole, possibly inhibiting its blood pressure-lowering effects.\n\nBetween November 2018, and September 2019, the FDA announced multiple recalls of tablets containing losartan by Sandoz, Torrent Pharmaceuticals, Hetero Labs, Camber Pharmaceuticals, Legacy Pharmaceutical Packaging, Teva Pharmaceuticals, Vivimed Life Sciences, and Macleods Pharmaceutical Limited due to detection of one of the possible carcinogens N-nitrosodiethylamine, N-methylnitrosobutyric acid, or N-nitroso-N-methyl-4-aminobutyric acid in the active pharmaceutical ingredient (API).\n\nLosartan is a selective, competitive angiotensin II receptor type 1 (AT) antagonist, reducing the end organ responses to angiotensin II. Losartan administration results in a decrease in total peripheral resistance (afterload) and cardiac venous return (preload). All of the physiological effects of angiotensin II, including release of aldosterone, are antagonized in the presence of losartan. Reduction in blood pressure occurs independently of the status of the renin–angiotensin system. As a result of losartan dosing, plasma renin activity increases due to removal of the angiotensin II feedback. Renin is released from the kidneys when there is reduced renal arterial pressure, sympathetic activation, or increased sodium delivery to the distal renal tubule. Renin then acts by converting angiotensinogen to angiotensin I; angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) converts angiotensin I to angiotensin II; angiotensin II causes vasoconstriction and aldosterone release. Aldosterone serves to retain sodium from the distal renal tubule. Sodium retention ultimately results in increased blood pressure. Therefore, the use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists like losartan result in blocking the downstream effect of renin, angiotensin II, and ultimately decreasing blood pressure.\n\nAngiotensin II receptor antagonists include losartan, valsartan, azilsartan, candesartan, eprosartan, irbesartan, olmesartan, and telmisartan. They all have the same mechanism of action and potentially inhibit the actions of angiotensin better than ACE inhibitors, such as lisinopril, because there are other enzymes than ACE that have the capability of producing angiotensin II.\n\nLosartan is a uricosuric. As a specific inhibitor of the urate transporter 1 (SLC22A12, URAT1), losartan blocks the uptake of uric acid into cells, thus leaving more available in the bloodstream to be filtered and excreted by the kidneys. Because losartan can cause hyperkalemia, individuals should not use potassium supplements or salt substitutes containing potassium without appropriate monitoring by a physician.\n\nLosartan is well absorbed following oral administration and undergoes significant first-pass metabolism to produce the 5-carboxylic acid metabolite, designated as EXP3174. About 14% of an oral dosage is converted to this metabolite, which is long-acting (6 to 8 hr) and a noncompetitive antagonist at the AT receptor, contributing to the pharmacological effects of losartan. EXP3174 is 10-40 times more potent in blocking AT receptors than losartan. In addition, the binding to the target enzyme is pH-sensitive, and the negatively-charged tetrazole ring, which is similar in size to the negative carboxylic acid derivative, may contribute to the activity of the drug.\n\nLosartan's bioavailability is about 32%.\n\nMetabolism is primarily by cytochrome P450 isoenzymes CYP2C9 and CYP3A4. Peak plasma concentrations of losartan and EXP3174 occur about one hour and three to four hours, respectively, after an oral dose. Both losartan and EXP3174 are more than 98% bound to plasma proteins. Losartan is excreted in the urine, and in the feces via bile, as unchanged drug and metabolites. About 4% of an oral dose is excreted unchanged in urine, and about 6% is excreted in urine as the active metabolite. The terminal elimination half lives of losartan and EXP3174 are about 1.5 to 2.5 hours and 3 to 9 hours, respectively.\n\nLosartan and other angiotensin-receptor antagonists exhibit fetal toxicity and should be avoided during pregnancy, particularly in the second and third trimesters.\n\nLosartan is generally marketed as the (basic) potassium salt of the aromatized negatively charged tetrazole, called \"losartan potassium\".\n\n\nThe suggested initial dose of losartan for treatment of hypertension is 50 mg/day, and the usual maintenance dose range is 25–100 mg/day. There is limited data on what dosage is considered toxic in humans; toxicity would most likely result in decreased blood pressure and an increased heart rate.\n\nA hypothesis emerged in an opinion commentary published in March 2020, that AT1R blockers such as losartan may work to mitigate the symptoms of COVID-19 (SARS-CoV-2) infection. Competing hypotheses are that it will make the symptoms worse. A study of this question was started in March 2020.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306508", "title": "The Know-It-All", "text": "The Know-It-All\n\nThe Know-It-All: One Man's Humble Quest to Become the Smartest Person in the World is a book by \"Esquire\" editor A. J. Jacobs, published in 2004.\n\nIt recounts his experience of reading the entire \"Encyclopædia Britannica\"; all 32 volumes of the 2002 edition, extending to over 33,000 pages with some 44 million words. He set out on this endeavour to become the \"smartest person in the world\". The book is organized alphabetically in encyclopedia format and recounts both interesting facts from the encyclopedia and the author's experiences.\n\nIt was a \"New York Times\" Best Seller.\n\nThe satirist P.J. O'Rourke said of it: \"\"The Know-It-All\" is a terrific book. It's a lot shorter than the encyclopedia, and funnier, and you'll remember more of it. Plus, if it falls off the shelf onto your head, you'll live.\"\n\nBy contrast, Joe Queenan in \"The New York Times Book Review\" contended that much of which Jacobs reported as remarkable discoveries, e.g. the tale of Heloise and Abelard and the assassination of Marat by a woman, were already common knowledge among educated people. Jacobs responded that \"the ridiculously hyperbolic subtitle might have been a tip-off\" of the book's ironic tone. \n\nA.J. Jacobs was not the first to read the entire \"Britannica\". The earliest recorded example was Fath Ali, who upon becoming the Shah of Persia in 1797, was given a gift of the 3rd edition of the \"Britannica\". After reading all of its 18 volumes, the Shah extended his royal title to include \"Most Formidable Lord and Master of the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\"\". Roughly a century later, Amos Urban Shirk, an American businessman, read the entire 23-volume \"1911 Encyclopædia Britannica\" over a period of four years. He then went on to read the entire 14th edition, spending on average three hours per night.\n\nElon Musk read the Encyclopædia Britannica twice.\n\nBill Gates read the entire World Book Encyclopedia in his youth.\n\nIn 2008, Ammon Shea published his account of reading the complete \"Oxford English Dictionary\".\n\nIn fiction, a character in Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's \"The Red-Headed League\" is hired to copy out the \"Britannica\" by hand—for no other reason (at least apparently) than his red hair—although his job is terminated before he finishes the entries beginning with \"A\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2306510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306510", "title": "Keita dynasty", "text": "Keita dynasty\n\nThe Keita dynasty ruled pre-imperial and imperial Mali from the 12th century into the early 17th century. It was a Muslim Dynasty, and its rulers claimed descent from Bilal Keita (also known as Bilal ibn Ribah Bilal).\n\nBilal Keita was a freed slave who accepted Islam and became one of the Sahabahs of the prophet Muhammad. Bilal Keita bears the distinction of being the first muezzin in Islam. According to Mandinka/Bambara accounts invented after their conversion to Islam and passed down by djelis (Muslim chroniclers), Bilal had seven sons, one of whom settled in Manden (Mandinka traditional territory). This son, Lawalo Keita, had a son named Latal Kalabi Keita, who later sired Damul Kalabi Keita. It was common in most royal dynasties to try to link their origins to some divine or religious personalities and was common across cultures and religions. Damul Kalabi Keita's son was Lahilatoul Keita and the first \"faama\" of the city of Niani. It is through Lahilatoul that the Keita clan becomes a ruling dynasty, though only over the small area around Niani.\n\nThere would be nine \"faamas\" of Niani prior to the founding of the Mali Empire. Its first \"mansa\" would be Sundiata Keita. This is when Mari Jata is crowned and Keita becomes a clan name. A couple of generations after him, his great-nephew, Mansa Musa Keita I of Mali, made a celebrated pilgrimage to Mecca which established his reputation as the richest man of his day. The dynasty he belonged to remained a major power in West Africa from 1235 until the breakup of the Mali Empire around 1610. Rivals from within the clan founded smaller kingdoms within contemporary Mali and Guinea. Today the surname Keita belongs only to one royal family in Africa. Of the members of these modern \"daughter dynasties\", the late politician Modibo Keita and the musician Salif Keita are arguably the most famous.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306521", "title": "Duck sauce", "text": "Duck sauce\n\nDuck sauce (or orange sauce) is a condiment with a sweet and sour flavor and a translucent orange appearance similar to a thin jelly. Offered at American Chinese restaurants, it is used as a dip for deep-fried dishes such as wonton strips, spring rolls, egg rolls, duck, chicken, fish, or with rice or noodles. It is often provided in single-serving packets along with soy sauce, mustard, hot sauce or red chili powder. It may be used as a glaze on foods, such as poultry. Despite its name, the sauce is not prepared using duck meat.\n\nIt is made of plums, apricots, pineapples or peaches added to sugar, vinegar, ginger and chili peppers. It is used in more traditional Chinese cuisine in the form of plum sauce.\n\nIt is probably called \"duck sauce\" because a version of it was first served with Peking duck in China, a dish which has been served there for hundreds of years. When Chinese immigrants to the U.S. created Chinese dishes that would appeal more to the American palate, they created a sweeter version of the sauce used in China.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306537", "title": "Ocee", "text": "Ocee\n\nOcee may refer to two locations in the United States:\n\n"}
{"id": "2306540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306540", "title": "Periodic acid–Schiff stain", "text": "Periodic acid–Schiff stain\n\nPeriodic acid–Schiff (PAS) is a staining method used to detect polysaccharides such as glycogen, and mucosubstances such as glycoproteins, glycolipids and mucins in tissues. The reaction of periodic acid oxidizes the vicinal diols in these sugars, usually breaking up the bond between two adjacent carbons not involved in the glycosidic linkage or ring closure in the ring of the monosaccharide units that are parts of the long polysaccharides, and creating a pair of aldehydes at the two free tips of each broken monosaccharide ring. The oxidation condition has to be sufficiently regulated so as to not oxidize the aldehydes further. These aldehydes then react with the Schiff reagent to give a purple-magenta color. A suitable basic stain is often used as a counterstain. \n\n• PAS diastase stain (PAS-D) is PAS stain used in combination with diastase, an enzyme that breaks down glycogen.\n\n• Alcian blue/periodic acid–Schiff (AB/PAS or AB-PAS) uses alcian blue before the PAS step.\n\nPAS staining is mainly used for staining structures containing a high proportion of carbohydrate macromolecules (glycogen, glycoprotein, proteoglycans), typically found in e.g. connective tissues, mucus, the glycocalyx, and basal laminae.\n\nPAS staining can be used to assist in the diagnosis of several medical conditions:\n\nPresence of glycogen can be confirmed on a section of tissue by using diastase to digest the glycogen from a section, then comparing a diastase digested PAS section with a normal PAS section. The diastase negative slide will show a magenta staining where glycogen is present within a section of tissue. The slide that has been treated with diastase will lack any positive PAS staining in those locations on the slide\n\nPAS staining is also used for staining cellulose. One example would be looking for implanted medical devices composed of nonoxidized cellulose.\n\nIf the PAS stain will be performed on tissue, the recommended fixative is 10% neutral-buffered formalin or Bouin solution. For blood smears, the recommended fixative is methanol. Glutaraldehyde is not recommended because free aldehyde groups may be available to react with the Schiff reagent, which may result in false positive staining.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306543", "title": "James Napier Robertson", "text": "James Napier Robertson\n\nJames William Napier Robertson (born 24 March 1982) is a New Zealand writer, film director and producer, who wrote and directed 2009 film \"I'm Not Harry Jenson\", and 2014 film \"The Dark Horse\", for which he won Best Director, Best Screenplay and Best Film at the 2014 New Zealand Film Awards, and which was declared by New Zealand critics \"One of the greatest New Zealand films ever made\". \n\nHe also wrote and directed two episodes of Logie-award winning crime drama \"Romper Stomper\", and appeared earlier in his career as an actor in Shakespearean theater and several television productions including \"The Tribe\" and \"Being Eve\", describing how his acting work \"funded his early filmmaking\".\n\nBorn in Wellington, New Zealand, but moving to Auckland at a young age, Napier Robertson grew up in Devonport and attended Takapuna Grammar School, where he first started acting in Shakespeare productions and musicals.\n\nHis great-grandfather is actor Alan Napier, his uncle is actor Marshall Napier and his cousin is Marshall's daughter, actress Jessica Napier. He is also related to the author Charles Dickens.\n\nHe joined a local outdoor Shakespeare Theatre Company in his late teens, which he performed with for a number of years, often at the Pumphouse Theatre Amphitheatre. He has described this time with the company as his favorite period of acting.\n\nAfter this period he was cast in a number of local and international television shows which he acted in for the next few years, both in support and lead roles. He was first cast in \"Being Eve\" as Jared Preston, a wayward teenager at the titular Eve's school, then in \"Shortland Street\", and \"Mercy Peak \"as Luke Bertram, an arsonist dealing with his mother's death by burning down local buildings until he is caught by the police.\n\nIn 2002 he was cast for two seasons in UK show \"The Tribe\", a post apocalyptic series about a virus that has wiped out all adults, leaving only young people to fight amongst each other. In 2004 he was cast for one season as a lead actor on US show \"Power Rangers Dino Thunder\", playing Conner McKnight, a soccer player and the Red Ranger. The show was filmed in New Zealand and featured an almost entirely New Zealand cast, including friend and future film producer Tom Hern. \n\nThroughout this period he said he was less interested in acting, instead using the money from these shows to fund the short films he was writing and directing in his early twenties and purchase film equipment.\n\nIn his mid twenties, Napier Robertson wrote and directed his first feature film, \"I'm Not Harry Jenson\", with friends Tom Hern and Edward Sampson both taking roles as producers in the film. The film premiered at the 2009 New Zealand International Film Festival and was nominated for Best Picture at the 2009 AFTA Awards (New Zealand Film and TV Awards). It was picked up by Rialto Distribution for a New Zealand wide theatrical release from January to March 2010 to strong reviews, but low box office.\n\nIn 2010 he started work on his second feature film, \"The Dark Horse\", based on the life story of Genesis Potini, a Māori chess player who suffered from severe bipolar. Napier Robertson stated he became very close friends with Potini, playing hundreds of games of chess with him while writing the screenplay. Napier Robertson has been an avid chess player since a young age, which he cited as one of the things that inspired him to make \"The Dark Horse\".\n\n\"The Dark Horse\" premiered as the Opening Night film at the NZIFF Film Festival on 17 July 2014, and was released across New Zealand on 31 July. The film was a New Zealand box office hit, grossing $2 million and receiving unanimously rave reviews. The \"New Zealand Herald\" rated it 5 stars, calling it \"a great, deeply affecting movie\", with \"brave, assured and layered directing\" and praising the \"towering performance of Cliff Curtis\". A review on \"Radio New Zealand\" declared it to be \"one of the greatest New Zealand films ever made\".\n\nIt premiered internationally at the 2014 Toronto International Film Festival. \"Variety\" called it \"exceptional...the most deserving cinematic export to emerge from New Zealand in years\". \"The Hollywood Reporter\" said it was \"certain to attract awards attention\", and Indiewire graded it an 'A', praising it as \"moving and incredibly humanistic\".\n\nThe European Premiere was held at the 2015 Rotterdam International Film Festival, where it won the Audience Award for Best Film. It also won the Best Actor Award for Cliff Curtis at the 2014 Asia Pacific Awards, and six awards at the 2014 New Zealand Film Awards, including Best Picture, Best Director and Best Screenplay. 2014 was dubbed the 'golden year' of New Zealand film.\n\n\"The Dark Horse\" was released worldwide in 2015, and was released theatrically in the United States in 2016 where it was presented by James Cameron. \n\nNapier Robertson has stated in interviews he has been a vegetarian since the age of four due to his love for animals, and has been a member of Greenpeace for most of his life. Animal advocacy group SAFE named him 'Hottest Vegetarian of 2014' alongside Academy Award winner Anna Paquin as a way of raising awareness for reducing animal cruelty. Napier Robertson is married with two young children a son born in 2016 and a daughter named Sophia who live with him in Auckland. \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306545", "title": "Natzwiller", "text": "Natzwiller\n\nNatzwiller () is a commune in the Bas-Rhin department in Grand Est in northeastern France.\n\nBuilt in spring 1941 on the territory of the commune, Natzweiler-Struthof opened for prisoners in May 1941. It was the only Nazi concentration camp on French soil. The inmates originally were German who were to supply labor for building V-2 rocket factories in man-made caves dug out of the Vosges Mountains.\n\nThe prisoners lived in the cold, damp tunnels as they built them. Natzweiler-Struthof was expanded by the Nazis with the installation of a gas chamber in April 1943 and crematorium. The camp's main function was temporary detention of Resistance fighters from overrun European nations, although selected Nazi experiments on Jews were carried out here.\n\nThe camp site has been preserved as a museum and includes a monument to the departed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306546", "title": "Lockheed T2V SeaStar", "text": "Lockheed T2V SeaStar\n\nThe Lockheed T2V SeaStar, later called the T-1 SeaStar, is a carrier-capable jet trainer for the United States Navy that entered service in May 1957. Developed from the Lockheed T-33, it was powered by one Allison J33 engine.\n\nStarting in 1949, the U.S. Navy used the Lockheed T-33 for land-based jet aircraft training. The T-33 was a derivative of the Lockheed P-80/F-80 fighter and was first named TO-2, then TV-2 in Navy service. However, the TV-2 was not suitable for operation from aircraft carriers. The persisting need for a carrier-compatible trainer led to a further, more advanced design development of the P-80/T-33 family, which came into being with the Lockheed designation L-245 and USN designation T2V. Lockheed's demonstrator L-245 first flew on 16 December 1953 and production deliveries to the US Navy began in 1956.\n\nCompared to the T-33/TV-2, the T2V was almost totally re-engineered for carrier landings and at-sea operations with a redesigned tail, naval standard avionics, a strengthened undercarriage (with catapult fittings) and lower fuselage (with a retractable arrestor hook), power-operated leading-edge flaps (to increase lift at low speeds) to allow carrier launches and recoveries, and an elevated rear (instructor's) seat for improved instructor vision, among other changes. Unlike other P-80 derivatives, the T2V could withstand the shock of landing on a pitching carrier deck and had a much higher ability to withstand sea water-related aircraft wear from higher humidity and salt exposure.\n\nThe only version of the T2V was initially designated T2V-1 when it entered service, but was redesignated T-1A SeaStar under the 1962 United States Tri-Service aircraft designation system,the designation under which it would spend the majority of its career.\n\nThe T-1A was replaced by the North American T-2 Buckeye but remained in service into the 1970s.\n\nAs of 2017, one T2V-1A airworthy, based at Phoenix-Mesa Gateway Airport (former Williams Air Force Base) in Mesa, Arizona, and being flown for experimental and display purposes. Two examples are preserved on public display in Tucson, Arizona.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306556", "title": "Johns Creek (Chattahoochee River tributary)", "text": "Johns Creek (Chattahoochee River tributary)\n\nJohns Creek is an stream which begins in southern Forsyth County, Georgia and runs south-southwestward through the eastern part of northern Fulton County, Georgia (formerly the separate Milton County). It is a tributary of the Chattahoochee River and has no official stream gauges.\n\nThe name of Johns Creek, Georgia, incorporated in late 2006, is taken from this creek that runs through the center of the new city.\n\nThe creek's name is believed to have originated with John Rogers, one of the earliest white settlers in the area. John Rogers was an ancestor of the noted writer Will Rogers.\n\nJohns Creek originates at Vaughn Lake, a reservoir in southern Forsyth County. From there, the stream flows south through the city of Johns Creek, passing through the Standard Club and under Abbotts Bridge Road. South of State Bridge Road, Johns Creek is joined by Cameron Creek. From there, stream passes through RiverPines Golf before emptying in the Chattahoochee River.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306558", "title": "Hashimoto-san", "text": "Hashimoto-san\n\nHashimoto-san is a Japanese mouse created by the Japanese-born animator Bob Kuwahara and Eli Bauer for the Terrytoons animation company. Hashimoto is a judo instructor living in Japan with his wife Hanako, son Saburo, and daughter Yuriko.\n\nThe first cartoon in the series, \"Hashimoto-san\", was a seven-minute short released theatrically on September 6, 1959. The final cartoon, \"Spooky-Yaki,\" was released on November 13, 1963.\n\nHashimoto is an expert in judo and the ninja arts, but never used his skills to harm anyone. He also frequently told stories about Japan to an American reporter named G.I. Joe aka Joey or Joey-San.\n\nHashimoto and the other characters in the series were voiced by John Myhers. All of the shorts were directed by Kuwahara. Bob Kuwahara had an intimate knowledge of Hashimoto's culture through his own family ties.\n\nBetween 1963 and 1965 the shorts were incorporated into \"The Hector Heathcote Show\" as part of NBC's Saturday morning cartoon lineup. During the mid-1960s Hashimoto had his own board game, and also appeared in a handful of comic books published by Gold Key Comics; always with other Terrytoon characters like Deputy Dawg or Hector Heathcote.\n\nSince it was common to portray Japanese and other Asians as houseboys or manservants (or worse) in American cartoons prior to the Hashimoto series, Hashimoto the Mouse is today regarded as having perhaps been the first positive characterization of an Asian character in American animation. Some episodes contained scenes whose artwork reflected Japan's traditional ukiyo-e woodblock prints.\n\nTo date the \"Hashimoto-san\" series has not been released on DVD, though a bootleg DVD is available containing 12 of the 14 episodes.\n"}
{"id": "2306561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306561", "title": "Sunday Love", "text": "Sunday Love\n\nSunday Love is the third studio album (second recorded) by Canadian singer Fefe Dobson. The album was released digitally on the iTunes Store on December 18, 2012.\n\nOriginally slated for release in 2005, the release date was pushed back a number of times by Island Records before its eventual cancellation. The album had earned good reviews, including the highest rating given on any of the albums reviewed in the July 2006 issue of \"Vibe\" magazine. After the album was cancelled, Dobson commented on her Myspace blog, \"I always believe everything happens for a reason, and that change is a very good thing.\" Before its official cancellation, a limited number of copies were shipped to stores, with it being fully leaked on the internet. The album remained unreleased for many years before its 2012 digital release.\n\nDobson began work on \"Sunday Love\" during the summer of 2004. The album's fourteen tracks were recorded over an eight-month period in California. Island Records set an initial US release date of September 20, 2005. Neither single released from the album—\"Don't Let It Go to Your Head\" or \"This Is My Life\"—charted. There is an official music video for \"Don't Let It Go to Your Head\". However, no video was made for \"This Is My Life\".\n\nAnother song from the album, \"Be Strong\", appears on the \"It's a Boy Girl Thing\" soundtrack.\n\nThere were \"For Promotional Use Only\" CDs, sometimes referred to as DJ singles, produced for the two singles.\n\nTwo samplers were also produced to promote the album:\n\n\nDobson's \"Don't Let It Go to Your Head\" is covered by Lilyjets, a Norwegian girl group, as a single from their 2006 debut album \"3rd Floor.\" They also produced an official music video.\n\nThe music of \"This Is My Life\" is used by the Taiwanese girl-group S.H.E in their song: \"I Love Trouble\" (我愛烦恼) on their 2008 album \"FM S.H.E\" which became quite popular in Asia.\n\nThe song \"As a Blonde\" is covered on Selena Gomez & The Scene's 2009 debut album \"Kiss & Tell\". Jordin Sparks covered \"Don't Let Go To Your Head\" on her 2009 album \"Battlefield\". Shortly after Sparks's album was released Dobson said, \"Jordin Sparks just did [that song], which was on \"Sunday Love\", which was very cool. She did kind of, like, a more R&B version of it, which I think is really nice, actually. It was really cool that she didn't try and do a rock version of it, and she did what she's more comfortable with, which I thought was awesome.\" Sparks's version was released as a single in the UK on January 4, 2010.\n\nConfirmed by multiple sources including \"Billboard\".\n\nCommercially released cover versions or other commercial usage of \"Sunday Love\" songs by other artists.\n"}
{"id": "2306562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306562", "title": "Francis Ona", "text": "Francis Ona\n\nFrancis Ona (c. 1953 – 24 July 2005) was a Bougainville secessionist leader who led an uprising against the Government of Papua New Guinea as part of the Bougainville Civil War. He and his followers were concerned about the environmental and social effects of the operation of the Panguna mine by Bougainville Copper, a subsidiary of Rio Tinto Group. On 17 May 1990, Ona declared the independence of the Republic of Me'ekamui. It was not recognised internationally. In May 2004 Ona proclaimed himself \"King of Me'ekamui.\" While resisting the peace process and 2005 elections, Ona mostly stayed in a safe haven, where his BRA forces controlled territory. He died of malaria in his village.\n\nOna was at one time employed by Bougainville Copper at the mine, but he became increasingly critical of its operations' adverse effect on the environment and what he claimed was the low level of royalties paid the landowners. Most of the profits left Bougainville Island, but its society was disrupted by thousands of workers from Papua New Guinea, as well as Australians. From the mid-1980s, Ona and others challenged the leadership of the Panguna Landowners Association (PLA), claiming that they were not representing the interests of all the traditional landowners.\n\nBy early 1988, Ona and his associates, including his cousin Pepetua Serero, had formed the New PLA, supported by both mineworkers and the traditional opponents of the Panguna mine, Damien Dameng's Me'ekamui Pontuku Onoring. The New PLA made a number of demands, including monetary compensation for the impacts of the mine, a 50 per cent share of mine revenue to the landholders, and a transfer of ownership to Bougainville. The PNG Government set up an independent inquiry which dismissed the claims about the environmental impact but was critical of other parts of the mine's operation. In response, Ona established the Bougainville Revolutionary Army (BRA), which conducted numerous acts of sabotage against the mine including the destruction of the mine's power supply. The mine was closed by Bougainville Copper in May 1989. Ona rejected an initial compromise deal by Bougainville Copper and the PNG government.\n\nOna became the acknowledged leader of the BRA after the death of Serero in 1989; Sam Kauona, a former soldier in the army, led military operations. The Papua New Guinea Government sent in the police and then the army under Jerry Singirok to quell the uprising, but they were unable to do so. The island was placed under a State of Emergency under the control of the PNG Police Commissioner. The number of complaints increased about human rights abuses by PNG forces, which initially strengthened support for the BRA.\n\nIn January 1990, Bougainville Copper announced that they were suspending operations at the mine. The PNG Government announced that they would withdraw troops and for international observers to verify the disarmament of the BRA. The police fled fearing for their lives in the absence of the army, and there was an attempted coup in Port Moresby over the deal.\n\nIn response to a blockade imposed by the PNG Government later in 1990, Ona said he was the head of the Bougainville Interim Government and declared independence for the island. The island descended into anarchy, as several armed factions and clans struggled for power; the PNG Government supported these militias. The BRA leaders fell out with Joseph Kabui, the Premier of Bougainville, who had previously been a supporter.\n\nDuring Prime Minister Paias Wingti's term, the PNG Government renewed military efforts, and their troops captured Arawa, the provincial capital, in 1993 and recaptured the Panguna mine. Sir Julius Chan, Wingti's successor tried to broker a deal, but neither Ona and the BRA nor Kabui would sign a deal. Frustrated, Chan ordered a full-scale invasion in 1996 but neither Australia nor New Zealand would support it. Chan hired Sandline International mercenaries, but the military threatened to arrest them on their arrival. Chan resigned to forestall a coup.\n\nA ceasefire was arranged later in 1997 between new Prime Minister Bill Skate and Joseph Kabui, with a multi-national Peace Monitoring Group commencing operations on the island. Though Ona and the BRA controlled 90% of the island, his break with Kabui meant that the BRA representatives were not involved in the talks. Ona believed that the New Zealand-brokered peace talks were unwarranted outside interference with Bougainville governance, and did not participate.\n\nDuring this period, Australian film maker Wayne Coles Janess made an acclaimed documentary film about the Bougainville Civil War. He was nearly assassinated by the PNG government. \n\nWhen he interviewed Ona, the leader declared :\n\n\"... 90% of Bougainvillians are supporting me. And I want to summon Prime Minister of PNG and PNG government, if 90% is not supporting me, let them carry out a referendum and we'll see.\"\n\nOna was subsequently ignored in the creation of the Autonomous Bougainville Government. At this time Ona agreed with Noah Musingku to establish a funding source for Bougainville that would allow true sovereignty. This system was developed as the U-Vistract system, which sought to use the untapped natural resources of Bougainville to finance reconstruction. Ona remained isolated in the Panguna region, which BRA controlled for the next 16 years.\n\nThe Bougainville conflict is estimated to have cost between 10,000 and 15,000 lives, mainly due to disease and starvation among the civilian residents. A tribal reconciliation process started in 2000 appears to have been successful. The PNG government promised in 2001 to hold a referendum on independence within the next ten to fifteen years. The referendum was held in 2019, and voters voted overwhelmingly (98.31%) for independence.\n\nOna was never captured and refused to participate in the peace process. His forces still controlled over half of the island.\n\nOn 17 May 2004, Ona declared himself \"King of Bougainville\" or Mekamui. He was crowned \"King Francis Dominic Dateransy Domanaa, head of state of the Royal Kingdom of Me'ekamui\". \"Me'ekamui\", meaning \"holy\" or \"Holy Land\", is an old tribal name for Bougainville. During elections for the Autonomous government in 2005, which he opposed, Ona came out of his safe haven into the public eye for the first time in 16 years. He declared that Bougainville was already independent and capable of running its own affairs.\n\nPerhaps as a result of Ona's continued influence in Bougainville, only 3% of the eligible voters participated in the May 2005 elections of the New Zealand-brokered Autonomous Government. \n\nMembers of the Lihir Island Mining Area Landowners Association in New Ireland, as well as other mining projects in Fiji and Solomon Islands, contacted Ona for assistance in dealing with foreign mining concerns.\nOna died on 24 July 2005 of malaria in his village.\n\nOna was given a state funeral in the provincial capital of Buka.\n\n\n\n\nColes-Janess, Wayne (1997). Bougainville \"Sandline\". © ipso-facto Productions, screened on ABC.\nColes-Janess, Wayne (1994). Bougainville \"Broken Promises\" © ipso-facto Productions, screened on ABC.\nColes-Janess, Wayne (1997). Bougainville \"Inside Bougainville\" © ipso-facto Productions, screened on ABC.\n"}
{"id": "2306567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306567", "title": "The Westminster Review", "text": "The Westminster Review\n\nThe Westminster Review was a quarterly British publication. Established in 1823 as the official organ of the Philosophical Radicals, it was published from 1824 to 1914. James Mill was one of the driving forces behind the liberal journal until 1828.\n\nIn 1823, the paper was founded (and funded) by Jeremy Bentham, who had long pondered the possibility of establishing a journal for propagating Radical views. The first edition of the journal (January 1824) featured an article by James Mill (continued in the second by his son John Stuart Mill), which served as a provocative reprobation of a rival, more well-established journal, the \"Edinburgh Review\", castigating it as an organ of the Whig party, and for sharing the latter's propensity for fence-sitting in the aristocratic interest. The controversy drew in a wide public response, much however critical: the \"Nuttall Encyclopædia\", published in 1907, notes that the Breeches Review became a nickname for the journal on account of the fact that Francis Place, a breeches-maker, was a major shareholder in the enterprise.\n\nThe review quickly reached a circulation of three thousand, but, despite that, was not able to break even; and when by 1828 the original funding was exhausted it was sold to another proprietor and no longer functioned in the Radical interest.\n\nIn 1834 Sir William Molesworth funded a new Radical review, to be edited (informally) by J S Mill, and called the ‘’London Review’’. Shortly after, Molesworth bought the Westminster Review’’ and merged the two; and from April 1836 to March 1840 the journal resulting from the merger was published under the title \"London and Westminster Review\". After March 1840 and for the following decade publication continued under the title \"Westminster Review\", but with William Edward Hickson in place of Mill as editor. Though financial difficulties continued, Mill concluded of the period that “it is highly creditable to him [Hickson] that he was able to maintain, in some tolerable degree, the character of the Review as an organ of radicalism and progress”.\n\nIn 1851 the journal was acquired by John Chapman based at 142 the Strand, London, a publisher who originally had medical training. The then unknown Mary Ann Evans, later better known by her pen name of George Eliot, had brought together his authors, including Francis Newman, W. R. Greg, Harriet Martineau and the young journalist Herbert Spencer who had been working and living cheaply in the offices of \"The Economist\" opposite Chapman's house. These authors met during that summer to give their support to this flagship of free thought and reform, joined by others including John Stuart Mill, the physiologist William Benjamin Carpenter, Robert Chambers and George J. Holyoake. They were later joined by Thomas Huxley, an ambitious young ship's surgeon determined to become a naturalist.\n\nJohn Oxenford's anonymous 1853 article, \"Iconoclasm in German Philosophy\", was translated and published in the \"Vossische Zeitung\". This led to a new interest in Schopenhauer's writings.\n\nMary Ann Evans (George Eliot) became assistant editor and produced a four–page prospectus setting out their common beliefs in progress, ameliorating ills and rewards for talent, setting out a loosely defined evolutionism as \"the fundamental principle\" of what she and Chapman called the \"Law of Progress\". The group was divided over the work of Thomas Malthus, with Holyoake opposing it as the principle of the workhouse which blamed the poor for their poverty, while to Greg and Martineau this was a law of nature encouraging responsibility and self-improvement. Chapman asked Herbert Spencer to write about this divisive matter for the first issue, and Spencer's \"A Theory of Population, deduced from the General Law of Animal Fertility\" actually appeared in the second issue, supporting the painful Malthusian principle as both true and self-correcting.\n\nAfter 1853 John Tyndall joined Huxley in running the science section of the \"Westminster Review\" and formed a group of evolutionists who helped pave the way for Charles Darwin's 1859 publication of \"On the Origin of Species\" and gave evolutionary ideas backing in the ensuing debate. The term \"Darwinism\" was first put in print by Huxley in his review of \"The Origin\", in the April 1860 issue of the \"Westminster Review\", which hailed the book as \"a veritable Whitworth gun in the armoury of liberalism\", promoting scientific naturalism over theology and praising the usefulness of Darwin's ideas while expressing professional reservations about Darwin's gradualism and doubting if it could be proved that natural selection could form new species.\n\nIn 1886 the Review published an essay by Eleanor Marx, \"The Woman Question: From A Socialist Point of View\"; but after a change of ownership in 1887, when the review converted to a monthly, it ceased to function on the same progressive and intellectual level. \n\nThe \"Foreign Quarterly Review\" was an independent London-based quarterly that published from July 1827 to July 1846 (volume 37). In October 1846 the \"Foreign Quarterly Review\" merged with the \"Westminster Review\". Until January 1847 the journal resulting from the merger was simultaneously published under two different titles: the \"Foreign Quarterly and Westminster Review\" and the \"Westminster and Foreign Quarterly Review\"; after January 1847, the journal was published under the title the \"Westminster and Foreign Quarterly Review\". The last issue under the title \"Westminster and Foreign Quarterly Review\" was published in October 1851 (volume 56, no. 2); after that issue the journal was published under the title \"Westminster Review\" and continued thus until it ceased publication in 1914.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306573", "title": "Stephen Blumberg", "text": "Stephen Blumberg\n\nStephen Carrie Blumberg (born 1948 in Saint Paul, Minnesota) is best known as a bibliomane who lived in Ottumwa, Iowa. After being arrested for stealing more than 23,600 books worth in 1990 (equivalent to about $M in ), he became known as the Book Bandit and was recognized as the most successful book thief in the history of the United States.\n\nBlumberg lived on a $72,000 annual family trust fund. His compulsion to collect books developed in childhood when he became interested in many of the beautiful, but run-down Victorian homes in St. Paul he walked past on his way to school. Blumberg began removing doorknobs and stained glass windows from the old houses that were slated for destruction as part of a revitalization project in St. Paul. Blumberg amassed hundreds of these items during the course of his collecting years in addition to the books. His initial interest in Victorian architecture brought him into the rare-books stacks at the University of Minnesota. Blumberg initially took items as a way to create a reference collection for his own use.\n\nAt 2:00 am on March 20, 1990 Stephen Blumberg was arrested for stealing more than 23,600 rare, valuable and assorted other books from 268 or more universities and museums in 45 states, two Canadian provinces, and Washington, D.C. Their value was placed at about US$20 million, but was later changed to $5.3 million, the largest book theft in US history. In 1991, Blumberg was found guilty and sentenced to 71 months in prison with a $200,000 fine. On December 29, 1995, he was released from prison. The collection has been referred to as the \"Blumberg Collection.\" The Rare Books and Manuscripts division of the Association of College and Research Libraries as well as library security expert William Andrew Moffett helped the Federal Bureau of Investigation capture and convict Stephen Blumberg and identify the items he had stolen.\n\nBlumberg's arrest came as a result of his friend, Kenneth J. Rhodes, turning him in for a $56,000 bounty he negotiated with the Justice Department. Rhodes and Blumberg had known each other since the mid-1970s. A known criminal, Rhodes accompanied Blumberg on several of his road trip collecting sprees. \n\nDuring Blumberg's 1991 trial, Dr. William S. Logan, director of the Law and Psychiatry Department at the Menninger Clinic and a recognized authority on forensic psychiatry, revealed that Blumberg had undergone psychiatric treatment for schizophrenic delusions and tendencies. He was hospitalized numerous times during his adolescence where twelve psychiatrists diagnosed him variously as schizophrenic, delusional, paranoid, or compulsive. Dr. Logan also revealed that a history of psychiatric illness plagued Blumberg's family. Dr. Logan reported during the trial that Blumberg intended to preserve or rescue the materials he stole from what he believed was destruction. Blumberg believed that the government was plotting to keep the ordinary person from having access to rare books and unique materials, and so sought to liberate and release them in an attempt to thwart the government plot. Blumberg admitted that he saw himself as a custodian of the things he took. He said he would never sell them because he thought that would be dishonest. He envisioned the items would be returned to the rightful owners after his death, or at least to another repository that could care for them. Despite these claims, Blumberg was convicted in 1991 as guilty, without reason of insanity. After serving a 4½-year sentence, Blumberg was released and resumed his collecting and stealing habits.\n\nUpon meeting Blumberg in the FBI's stacks after his arrest, John L. Sharpe III from Duke University's library commented about his brief conversation with Blumberg that, \"What I felt...was that we in libraries have to operate on a trust system every time we bring a book to someone's table. This is what I think is so sinister about the whole thing. This man chose to debase that, to debase that commodity that is so essential in gathering information in an open institution. And I think he betrayed everything that we try to represent in making information available as freely and as uninhibitedly as possible. And I think that’s what really just enraged me, to think that this man took advantage of that kind of access.\"(511)\n\nIn 1997, Blumberg was convicted again of burglary of antiques. He was again arrested in July 2003 for burglary of a house in Keokuk, Iowa. He was subsequently convicted in early-2004. He was again arrested in June 2004 for burglary in Knoxville, Illinois. This violated his probation for the 2004 conviction in Keokuk, Iowa for which he was again arrested.\n\nSome of the more precious objects Blumberg stole include a first edition copy of Harriet Beecher Stowe's \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\"; \"A Confession of Faith\", the first published book in Connecticut in 1710; 25 boxes of rare materials outlining the early history of Oregon including the Webfoot Diary; and the \"Bishops' Bible\", a 16th-century volume. Blumberg claimed he put together 100 incunabula in three years, including the 1493 Nuremberg Chronicle bound in ivory calfskin. He also collected the Zamorano 80, a list of rare books established in 1945 by a group of prominent book collectors in a Los Angeles book club named after Don Augustin Zamorano, California's first printer.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306576", "title": "Index of soil-related articles", "text": "Index of soil-related articles\n\nThis is an index of articles relating to soil.\n\nAcid sulfate soil\n- Acrisol\n- Active layer\n- Agricultural soil science\n- Akadama\n- Albeluvisols\n- Alfisols\n- Alkali soil\n- Andisols\n- Angle of repose\n- Antigo (soil)\n- Aridisols\n- Atriplex\n- Australian Society of Soil Science Incorporated\n\nBaer's law\n- Bama (soil)\n- Barren vegetation\n- Base-richness\n- Bay mud\n- Bearing capacity\n- Bentonite\n- Berkshire (soil)\n- Bevameter\n- Biochar\n- Biogeology\n- Blandford (soil)\n- Blue goo\n- Bog\n- Brickearth\n- Brown earth\n- Brown podzolic\n\nCalcareous grassland\n- Calcareous\n- Calciorthid\n- Calcisols\n- Cambisols\n- Canada Land Inventory\n- Capacitance probe\n- Carbon cycle re-balancing\n- Casa Grande (soil)\n- Cation-exchange capacity \n- Cellular confinement\n- Cecil (soil)\n- Characterisation of pore space in soil\n- Charlottetown (soil series)\n- Chernozem\n- Clay\n- Claypan\n- Cob (material)\n- Cohesion (geology)\n- Compressed earth block\n- Consolidation (soil)\n- Contour ploughing\n- Critical state soil mechanics\n\nDarcy (unit)\n- Darcy's law\n- Darcy–Weisbach equation\n- Dark earth\n- Dispersion (geology)\n- Downer (soil)\n- Downhill creep\n- Drainage research\n- Drilosphere\n- Drucker Prager yield criterion\n- Drummer (soil)\n- Dry quicksand\n- Dryland salinity\n- Duricrust\n- Durisols\n- Dynamic compaction\n\nEcological land classification\n- Ecosystem ecology\n- Edaphic\n- Edaphology\n- Effective stress\n- Eluvium\n- Entisol\n- Environmental impact of irrigation\n- Erosion\n- European Soil Bureau Network\n- European Soil Database\n- Expansive clay\n\nFactors affecting permeability of soils\n- Fech fech\n- Fen\n- Ferrallitisation\n- Fill dirt\n- Flatwood\n- Flownet\n- Fractal in soil mechanics\n- Frequency domain sensor\n- Fresno scraper\n- Frost heaving\n- Frost line\n- Fuller's earth\n\nGelisols\n- Geosmin\n- Geotechnical investigation\n- Gleysol\n- Gravitational erosion\n- Groundwater-related subsidence\n- Guelph soil\n- Gypcrust\n- Gypsisols\n\nHardpan\n- Headland (agriculture)\n- Hesco bastion\n- Hilo (soil)\n- History of soil science\n- Histosol\n- Houdek (soil)\n- Hume (soil)\n- Humin\n- Humus\n- Hydraulic conductivity\n- Hydric soil\n- Hydro axe mulching\n- Hydrological transport model\n- Hydropedology\n- Hydrophobic soil\n\nImmobilization (soil science)\n- Inceptisols\n- Infiltration capacity\n- International Humic Substances Society\n- International Soil Reference and Information Centre\n- International Union of Soil Sciences\n\nJory (soil)\n\nKalkaska sand\n- Kerogen\n\nLahar\n- Laimosphere\n- Land improvement\n- Lateral earth pressure\n- Leaching (agriculture)\n- Leaching (pedology)\n- Leaching model (soil)\n- Leptosols\n- Lessivage\n- Liming (soil)\n- Linear aeration\n- Lixisols\n- Loam\n- Loess\n- Lunar soil\n\nMartian soil\n- Miami (soil)\n- Multi-Scale Soil Information Systems\n- Mineralization (soil science)\n- Mollisols\n- Mud\n- Multiscale European Soil Information System\n- Muskeg\n- Myakka (soil)\n\nNarragansett (soil)\n- Natchez silt loam\n- National Society of Consulting Soil Scientists\n- Natural organic matter\n- Newmark's influence chart\n- No till method\n\nOn-Grade Mat Foundation for Expansive Soils\n- OPAL Soil Centre\n- Orovada (soil)\n- Orthent\n- Overburden pressure\n- Oxisol\n\nPaleosol\n- Particle size (grain size)\n- Paxton (soil)\n- Peat\n- Pedalfer\n- Pedocal\n- Pedodiversity\n- Pedology\n- Permeability (earth sciences)\n- Petrichor\n- Plaggen soil\n- Plainfield (soil)\n- Planosol\n- Plough pan\n- Podzol\n- Pore water pressure\n- Porosity\n- Port Silt Loam\n- Prime farmland\n- Psamment\n- Pygmy forest\n\nQuick clay\n- Quicksand\n\nRankers\n- Red Mediterranean soil\n- Regosols\n- Rendzina\n- Residual Sodium Carbonate Index\n- Reynolds' dilatancy\n- Rill\n- Rock flour\n\nSahysMod\n- Saline seep\n- Salinity in Australia\n- Salt marsh\n- Salting the earth\n- SaltMod\n- San Joaquin (soil)\n- Sand\n- Sand boil\n- Sandbag\n- Scobey (soil)\n- Seitz (soil)\n- Serpentine soil\n- Shear strength (soil)\n- Shear strength test\n- Shrub swamp\n- Silt\n- Slope stability\n- Slump\n- Sodium adsorption ratio\n- Soil\n- Soil acidification\n- Soil amendment\n- Soil and water assessment tool\n- Soil Association\n- Soil biodiversity\n- Soil biology\n- Soil carbon\n- Soil cement\n- Soil chemistry\n- Soil classification\n- Soil compaction\n- Soil conditioner\n- Soil conservation\n- Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act\n- Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act of 1936\n- Soil contamination\n- Soil crust\n- Soil depletion\n- Soil ecology\n- Soil erosion\n- Soil fertility\n- Soil food web\n- Soil functions\n- Soil gradation\n- Soil guideline value\n- Soil health\n- Soil horizon\n- Soil inoculant\n- Soil life\n- Soil liquefaction\n- Soil management \n- Soil mechanics\n- Soil moisture\n- Soil moisture sensors\n- Soil nailing\n- Soil organic matter\n- Soil pH\n- Soil physics\n- Soil policy (Victoria, Australia)\n- Soil profile\n- Soil resilience\n- Soil respiration\n- Soil salinity\n- Soil salinity control\n- Soil science\n- Soil Science Society of America\n- Soil series\n- Soil solarization\n- Soil steam sterilization\n- Soil structure\n- Soil survey\n- Soil test\n- Soil texture\n- Soil type\n- Soil water (retention)\n- Soils retrogression and degradation\n- Solonchak\n- Solonetz\n- Specific storage\n- Specific weight\n- Spodic soils\n- Stagnosol\n- Strip farming\n- Stuttgart (soil)\n- Subaqueous soil\n- Subsidence\n- Subsoil\n\nTalik\n- Tanana (soil)\n- Technosols\n- Tepetate\n- Terrace (agriculture)\n- Terracette\n- Terramechanics\n- Terra preta\n- Terra rosa (soil)\n- Terzaghi's Principle\n- Thaw depth\n- Thixotropy\n- Threebear (soil)\n- Throughflow\n- Tifton (soil)\n- Tillage\n- Topsoil\n- Tropical peat\n\nUmbric horizon\n- Ultisols\n- Umbrisols\n- Unified Soil Classification System\n- USDA soil taxonomy\n- Ustochrept\n\nVegetation and slope stability\n- Vertisol\n- Vibro stone column\n- Void ratio\n\nWater content\n- Weathering\n- Windsor (soil)\n- World Congress of Soil Science\n\nYedoma\n\n"}
{"id": "2306579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306579", "title": "Louis Couty", "text": "Louis Couty\n\nLouis Couty (13 January 1854 in Nantiat, France – 22 November 1884 in Rio de Janeiro, Empire of Brazil) was a French physician and physiologist. He worked at the Laboratory of Experimental Physiology at the National Museum of Rio de Janeiro, the first of its kind in Brazil. He was a collaborator of João Baptista de Lacerda (1846-1915), a Brazilian physiologist who was the lab's founder.\n\nCouty studied in France with Alfred Vulpian (1826–1887) and Charles-Édouard Brown-Séquard (1817–1894). He came to Brazil to lecture on Industrial Biology at the Escola Politécnica do Rio de Janeiro. Disappointed with its local conditions, he asked to carry out his experimental research at the National Museum, where Lacerda was already active with a research line on snake venom and other toxins. Couty began to study curare, a plant poison, and his first published paper was on its physiological properties, in 1876. Hearing about his work, the Brazilian emperor Dom Pedro II visited the Laboratory and invited him to be its first director, providing also the necessary resources to support the research lines.\n\nCouty also did experiments on other toxic plants and animals, the physiological effects of climate, on the pharmacology of mate, coffee, sugar cane alcohol, etc. He also studied brain physiology in monkeys and even adventured himself into sociology, writing in 1881 an important book, one of the earliest sociological analyses published about the country, \"Slavery in Brazil\". In this work, Couty proved that Brazil, on the basis of the census of 1872, had a very small organised middle class and that slave owners (only about 500,000 in 12 million total, in a land of 5 million square km) were the \"real\" economical and political elite. Hence, his famous boutade, \"\"Brazil has no people\"\".\n\nHe died unexpectedly at 30 years of age, after living less than 8 years in Rio, and his brilliant career, which could have been so important to the development of Brazilian physiology, was cut short. Couty's place in the history of biomedical science is preserved in a fresco painting at the entrance of the basic sciences building of the Federal University of São Paulo.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306597", "title": "Born secret", "text": "Born secret\n\n\"Born secret\" and \"born classified\" are both terms which refer to a policy of information being classified from the moment of its inception, usually regardless of where it was created, and usually in reference to specific laws in the United States that are related to information that describes the operation of nuclear weapons.\n\nIt has been extensively used in reference to a clause in the Atomic Energy Act of 1946, which specified that all information about nuclear weapons and nuclear energy was to be considered \"Restricted Data\" (RD) until it had been officially declassified.\n\nIn the 1954 revision of the Act, the United States Atomic Energy Commission was given the power to declassify entire categories of information.\n\nThe \"born secret\" policy was created under the assumption that nuclear information could be so important to national security that it would need classification before it could be formally evaluated. The wording of the 1954 act specified as secret:\n\nWhether or not it is constitutional to declare entire categories of information preemptively classified has not been definitively tested in the courts.\n\nThe legality of the 'born secret' doctrine was directly challenged in a freedom of the press case in 1979 (\"United States v. The Progressive\"). In that case, a magazine attempted to publish an account of the so-called \"secret of the hydrogen bomb\" (the Teller–Ulam design), which was apparently created without recourse to classified information. Many analysts predicted that the US Supreme Court would, if it heard the case, reject the 'born secret' clause as being an unconstitutional restraint on speech. However, the government dropped the case as moot before it was resolved.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306599", "title": "Swimming at the World Aquatics Championships", "text": "Swimming at the World Aquatics Championships\n\nThe aquatics discipline of swimming has been the core component of every edition of the FINA World Aquatics Championships since its introduction in 1973. In 1991, open water swimming events were introduced to the program of the World Championships.\n\nThe number of events competed for at each edition of the championships has grown steadily through the years. In 1973, 29 events were swum: 15 for men and 14 for women, all in the pool. Since 2015, the combined number of events for men and women including pool and open water events has been 49, a drastic increase compared to the first edition. Historically, 50 different events have been held across the 17 editions of the championships. \n\nLong course events have been competed since the inaugural edition of the championships in 1973. The youngest male swimmer to participate in the World Swimming Championships was Ahnt Khaung Htut from Myanmar, who was 12 years old in 2015. He took part at the 100m backstroke and 100m breaststroke events. The youngest female swimmer to participate in the World Swimming Championships was 10-year-old Alzain Tareq from Bahrain in 2015. She participated at the 50m butterfly and 50m freestyle events.\n\nOpen water swimming events have been competed since the sixth edition of the championships in 1991. From 2000 to 2010, FINA organized in even years specific championships for open water swimming events, the FINA World Open Water Swimming Championships.\n\nA select number of athletes have won medals at both long course and open water events, including Oussama Mellouli from Tunisia, Hayley Lewis from Australia, Gregorio Paltrinieri from Italy, Florian Wellbrock from Germany, and Sharon van Rouwendaal from the Netherlands. For a full list of medalists covering all editions of the championships see List of World Aquatics Championships medalists in swimming (men) and List of World Aquatics Championships medalists in swimming (women). For a complete list of medal winners in open water swimming see List of World Aquatics Championships medalists in open water swimming.\n\nUpdated after the 2019 World Aquatics Championships.\n\nBoldface denotes active swimmers and highest medal count among all swimmers (including these who not included in these tables) per type.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> including one medal in the relay event in which this swimmer participated in the heats only <BR> \n<nowiki>**</nowiki> including two medals in the relay events in which this swimmer participated in the heats only <br>\n\nThe World Championships have often been the occasion at which elite swimmers reach the peak of their season, and hence numerous world records are often broken.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306604", "title": "General of the Army (United States)", "text": "General of the Army (United States)\n\nGeneral of the Army (abbreviated as GA) is a five-star general officer and the second highest possible rank in the United States Army. A General of the Army ranks immediately above a general and is equivalent to a fleet admiral and a General of the Air Force. The General of the Army insignia consisted of five stars in a pentagonal pattern, with points touching. The insignia was paired with the gold and enameled United States Coat of Arms on service coat shoulder loops. The silver colored five-star metal insignia alone would be worn for use as a collar insignia of grade and on the garrison cap. Soft shoulder epaulettes with five stars in silver thread and gold-threaded United States Coat of Arms on green cloth were worn with shirts and sweaters.\n\nThe rank of \"General of the Army\" has had two incarnations. The rank was introduced in 1866, the year after the American Civil War. It was reserved for the Commanding General of the United States Army, was a four-star rank, and was held by three different individuals from 1866 to 1888. The rank was revived as the modern five-star rank during World War II, and may be awarded to more than one serving officer at a time. It was held by five different individuals from 1944 to 1981. A special rank of General of the Armies, which ranks above General of the Army, exists but has been conferred only twice, to World War I's John J. Pershing, and posthumously to George Washington, by proclamation 177 years after his death.\n\nOn 25 July 1866, the U.S. Congress established the rank of \"General of the Army of the United States\" for General Ulysses S. Grant. His pay was \"four hundred dollars per month, and his allowance for fuel and quarters\", except \"when his headquarters are in Washington, shall be at the rate of three hundred dollars per month.\" (His combined monthly pay and allowance of seven hundred dollars in 1866 is ). When appointed General of the Army, Grant wore the rank insignia of four stars and coat buttons arranged in three groups of four.\n\nUnlike the World War II rank with a similar title, the 1866 rank of General of the Army was a four-star rank. This rank held all the authority and power of a 1799 proposal for a rank of \"General of the Armies\", even though Grant was never called by this title.\n\nIn contrast to the modern four-star rank of general, only one officer at a time could hold the 1866–1888 rank of General of the Army. For a few months in 1885, as he was dying, Grant was accorded a special honor and his rank was restored by Congressional legislation.\n\nAfter Grant became U.S. president, he was succeeded as General of the Army by William T. Sherman, effective 4 March 1869. In 1872, Sherman ordered the insignia changed to two stars, with the coat of arms of the United States in between.\n\nBy an Act of Congress on 1 June 1888, the grade was conferred upon Philip Sheridan, who by then was in failing health. The rank of General of the Army ceased to exist with Sheridan's death on 5 August 1888.\n\nAs the logistics and military leadership requirements of World War II escalated after the June 1944 Normandy Landings, the United States government created a new version of General of the Army. The five-star rank and authority of General of the Army and equivalent naval Fleet Admiral were created by an Act of Congress on a temporary basis when was passed on 14 December 1944, which provided only 75% of pay and allowances to the grade for those on the retired list. The rank was temporary, subject to reversion to permanent rank six months after the end of the war. The temporary rank was then declared permanent on 23 March 1946 by , which also awarded full pay and allowances in the grade to those on the retired list. It was created to give the most senior American commanders parity of rank with their British counterparts holding the ranks of field marshal and admiral of the fleet. This second General of the Army rank is not the same as the post-Civil War era version because of its purpose and five stars.\n\nThe insignia for the 1944 General of the Army rank consists of five stars in a pentagonal pattern, with points touching. The five officers who have held the 1944 version of General of the Army and the date of each's appointment are as follows:\n\nThe timing of the first four of these appointments was coordinated with the following appointments of the U.S. Navy's first three five-star Fleet Admirals: \n\nThis was to establish both an order of seniority among the generals and a near-equivalence between the services.\n\nAlthough briefly considered, the U.S. Army did not introduce a rank of Field Marshal. In the United States, the term \"Marshal\" has traditionally been used for civilian law enforcement officers, particularly the U.S. Marshals, as well as formerly for state and local police chiefs. In addition, giving the rank the name \"marshal\" would have resulted in George Marshall being designated as \"Field Marshal Marshall\", which was considered undignified.\n\nEisenhower resigned his army commission on 31 May 1952 to run for the U.S. presidency. After Eisenhower was elected and served two terms, President John F. Kennedy on 22 March 1961 signed , which authorized reappointing Eisenhower \"to the active list of the Regular Army in his former grade, of General of the Army with his former date of rank in such grade\". This rank is today commemorated on the signs denoting Interstate Highways as part of the Eisenhower Interstate System, which display five silver stars on a light blue background.\n\nArnold, a general in the Army, was the Commanding General of the Army Air Forces when he was promoted to the rank of General of the Army. After the United States Air Force became a separate service on 18 September 1947, Arnold's rank was carried over to the Air Force, just as all Army Air Forces airmen's rank carried over. Arnold was the first and, to date, only General of the Air Force. He is also the only person to have ever held a five-star rank in two branches of the U.S. Armed Forces.\n\nThese officers who held the rank of General of the Army remained officers of the United States Army for life, with an annual $20,000 in pay and allowances, . They were entitled to an office maintained by the Army along with an aide (of the rank of colonel), a secretary, and an orderly.\n\nNo officers have been appointed to the rank of General of the Army since Omar Bradley. The rank of General of the Army is still maintained as a rank of the U.S. Army, and could again be bestowed, pending approval of the United States Senate. However, the President, with consent from the Senate, may award a fifth star at any time he sees fit.\n\nAlthough the first Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (CJCS), Omar Bradley, was eventually awarded a fifth star, such a promotion does not come with that office; Bradley's elevation was a political move so that he would not be outranked by his subordinate, Douglas MacArthur.\n\nIn the 1990s, there were proposals in Department of Defense academic circles to bestow a five-star rank on the office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.\n\nAfter the conclusion of the Persian Gulf War, but before his tenure as Secretary of State, there was talk of awarding a fifth star to General Colin Powell, who had served as CJCS during the conflict. But even in the face of public and Congressional pressure to do so, Clinton presidential transition team staffers decided against it for political reasons, fearing that a fifth star may have assisted Powell had he decided to run for office. An effort was also made to promote General Norman Schwarzkopf Jr. to General of the Army, although it was not carried out.\n\nAs recently as the late 2000s, some commentators proposed that the military leader in the Global War on Terrorism be promoted to a five-star rank. In January 2011, the founders of the Vets for Freedom political advocacy group published an op-ed in the \"Wall Street Journal\" calling for David Petraeus to be awarded a fifth star in recognition of his work and the importance of his mission. Earlier, in July 2010, D.B. Grady wrote an article in \"The Atlantic\" supporting the same promotion.\n\nThe rank of General of the Armies is senior to General of the Army, and this rank has been bestowed on only two officers in U.S. history. In 1919, John J. Pershing was promoted to General of the Armies for his services in World War I. In 1976, George Washington was posthumously promoted to this rank for his service as the first commanding general of the United States Army. In 1903, retroactive to 1899, George Dewey was promoted to Admiral of the Navy, a rank equivalent to General of the Armies.\n\nWhen the five-star rank of General of the Army was introduced, it was decided that General Pershing, who was still living, would be superior in rank to all the newly appointed Generals of the Army. Secretary of War Henry L. Stimson was asked whether Pershing was therefore a five-star general (at that time the highest rank was a four-star general). Stimson stated:\n\nSection 7 of Public Law read: \"Nothing in this Act shall affect the provisions of the Act of September 3, 1919 (41 Stat. 283: 10 U.S.C. 671a), or any other law relating to the office of General of the Armies of the United States.\"\n\nGeorge Washington was posthumously promoted to the rank of General of the Armies on 15 March 1978 by Secretary of the Army Clifford Alexander. In relation to America's bicentennial celebration, Congress passed legislation on 19 January 1976 urging Washington's promotion and President Gerald Ford approved it in October 1976, but historians found that Congressional and Presidential actions were not enough, that the Army had to issue orders to make the promotion official. According to , \"General of the Armies of the United States\" is established as having \"rank and precedence over all other grades of the Army, past or present\", clearly making it superior in grade to \"General of the Army\". Thus, Washington will always be the most senior general of the United States. During his lifetime, Washington was appointed a general in the Continental Army during the Revolutionary War, and a three-star lieutenant general in the Regular Army during the Quasi-War with France.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306605", "title": "Index of solar energy articles", "text": "Index of solar energy articles\n\nThis is a list of solar energy topics.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306610", "title": "List of federally recognized tribes in the United States", "text": "List of federally recognized tribes in the United States\n\nThis is a list of federally recognized tribes in the contiguous United States of America. There are also federally recognized Alaska Native tribes. , 574 Indian tribes were legally recognized by the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) of the United States. Of these, 231 are located in Alaska.\n\nIn the United States, the Indian tribe is a fundamental unit, and the constitution grants Congress the right to interact with tribes. More specifically, the Supreme Court of the United States in \"United States v. Sandoval\", 231 U.S. 28 (1913), warned, \"it is not... that Congress may bring a community or body of people within range of this power by arbitrarily calling them an Indian tribe, but only that in respect of distinctly Indian communities the questions whether, to what extent, and for what time they shall be recognized and dealt with as dependent tribes\" (at 46). Federal tribal recognition grants to tribes the right to certain benefits, and is largely controlled by the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA).\n\nWhile trying to determine which groups were eligible for federal recognition in the 1970s, government officials became acutely aware of the need for consistent procedures. To illustrate, several federally unrecognized tribes encountered obstacles in bringing land claims; \"United States v. Washington\" (1974) was a court case that affirmed the fishing treaty rights of Washington tribes; and other tribes demanded that the U.S. government recognize aboriginal titles. All the above culminated in the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act of 1975, which legitimized tribal entities by partially restoring Native American self-determination.\n\nFollowing the decisions made by the Indian Claims Commission, the BIA in 1978 published final rules with procedures that groups had to meet to secure federal tribal acknowledgement. There are seven criteria. Four have proven troublesome for most groups to prove: long-standing historical community, outside identification as Indians, political authority, and descent from a historical tribe. Tribes seeking recognition must submit detailed petitions to the BIA's Office of Federal Acknowledgment. Consequently, the Federal Acknowledgment Process can take years, even decades; delays of 12–14 years are not uncommon. The Shinnecock Indian Nation formally petitioned for recognition in 1978 and was recognized 32 years later, in 2010. At a Senate Committee on Indian Affairs hearing, witnesses testified that the process was \"broken, long, expensive, burdensome, intrusive, unfair, arbitrary and capricious, less than transparent, unpredictable, and subject to undue political influence and manipulation.\"\n\nIn July 2018 the United States' \"Federal Register\" issued an official list of 573 tribes that are \"Indian Entities Recognized and Eligible To Receive Services From the United States Bureau of Indian Affairs\". The number of tribes increased to 567 in May 2016 with the inclusion of the Pamunkey tribe in Virginia who received their federal recognition in July 2015. The number of tribes increased to 573 with the addition of six tribes in Virginia under the Thomasina E. Jordan Indian Tribes of Virginia Federal Recognition Act of 2017, signed in January 2018 after the annual list had been published. The Little Shell Tribe of Chippewa Indians became the 574th tribe to gain federal recognition on December 20, 2019. The website USA.gov, the federal government's official web portal, also maintains a constantly updated list of tribal governments. Ancillary information present in former versions of this list but no longer contained in the current listing has been included here in italics print.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Federal Register is used by the BIA to publish the list of \"Indian Entities Recognized and Eligible To Receive Services From the United States Bureau of Indian Affairs\". Tribes in the contiguous 48 states and those in Alaska are listed separately.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306618", "title": "Rochester Lourdes High School", "text": "Rochester Lourdes High School\n\nLourdes High School is a Catholic high school located in Rochester, Minnesota. It is a part of the Rochester Catholic School system and is located in the Roman Catholic Diocese of Winona.\n\nLourdes High School (LHS) was initially for girls only and went coeducational in 1925 when nearby boys-only Heffron High School closed. When the school relocated to a location on Center Street in 1941 it was renamed Lourdes High School. It moved to a site near 19th Street and Valley High in 2013. \n\nDennis L. Nigon, Principal of Lourdes High School from 1987–2007, became President of Rochester Catholic Schools in 2007. Mr. Nigon has 39 years of experience in Catholic high schools, and is in charge of the Lourdes Building Our Future project, to build a new facility for Lourdes High School.\n\nLHS uses modular scheduling, students usually having classes into 36-minutes class periods, with each class meeting about four of five days of the school week.\n\nLourdes High School has additional academic requirements beyond those commonly found at public high schools.\n\nLourdes students averaged a score of 26 on the ACT examination in the 2006-2007 academic year, meaning that the average Lourdes' student scored higher than 80% of national ACT takers.\n\n\"The Eagle\" is the student run and edited online newsmagazine of Lourdes High School. Starting out as a newspaper in 1921 at LHS predecessor St. John's High School, the publication utilized a variety of print formats, turning into a newsmagazine in 2008, and an online publication in the fall of 2010. Throughout its long history, however, \"The Eagle\" has set a standard for high school journalism in regards to writing, editing, and artwork. It can be found here.\n\nThe Lourdes High School Math League in 2008 won first place in the Hiawatha Division, as well as attending the State Competition on March 12, 2007, taking second place in the Small Schools Division. LHS student, Patti Geisler, won first place of all high schools in the division for highest individual score. 6 of the top 10 students of all high schools in 2008 were from Lourdes high school. (Post Bulletin, page A4 February 15, 2008)\n\nThe science club was established around 2005. The club is made up of students dedicated to increasing their knowledge of science. In 2007 the club formed its second team to take to the Envirothon Competition. After taking second place in the regional competition, the team went on to the state tournament. In 2010, the team finished fourth in the regional competition by one point. That team was led by Taylor Nelson and Andrew Lose.\n\nLourdes also boasts the city's top ranked high school chess team after defeating local rival Century High School in the 2008 city championship while going on to finish 7th in the state competition.\n\nOther activities include Latin Club, Drama, Student Council, Marching band, One Act Play, Color Guard, Film Club, Yearbook, Speech Team, The Cultural Exchange Club, Key Club, Jazz Band, Rockinsania, Center Street Singers, WGI Winter Drumline, Chess Club, Lego Robotics.\n\nIn 2006 the Lourdes varsity football team advanced to the semi-finals of the state tournament. The current head coach is Mike Kesler. The first year of Kesler's coaching career was a 2-7 season. But every year since has been a successful winning season making the state tournament 3 straight years in 06, 07, and 08.\n\nIn November 2010, Rochester Lourdes won the Minnesota State Class 3A football title with a convincing 42-13 win over Holy Family. Lourdes finished the season undefeated.\n\n1997 was the first year that Lourdes had a boys soccer team.\nThe Lourdes boy soccer team won the Minnesota State Soccer Championship for Class A in 1998 and 1999. In 1995 Tom Kane, the current varsity coach for boys soccer at Lourdes, campaigned heavily for a school sanctioned team.\n\nThe 1998 Boys team (the first out-state Minnesota soccer team to win state) beat LaCresent (4-3), Mankato West (2-0) and Caledonia (2-0 section championship game) on their way to state. At state, Lourdes came back from a 2-0 deficit to win 3-2 against Benilde-St. Margaret's in overtime in the state quarterfinals. They then proceeded to beat Duluth Marshall 1-0 to claim the championship.\n\nThe 2006-2007 season found Lourdes falling to Benilde-St. Margaret's 2-5 in the semi finals and tying Totino-Grace 1-1 for third place.\n"}
{"id": "2306621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306621", "title": "Army General (Soviet rank)", "text": "Army General (Soviet rank)\n\nArmy general (Russian: \"генерал армии\", \"general armii\") was a rank of the Soviet Union which was first established in June 1940 as a high rank for Red Army generals, inferior only to the marshal of the Soviet Union. In the following 51 years the Soviet Union created 133 generals of the army, 32 of whom were later promoted to the rank of \"marshal of the Soviet Union\". It is a direct counterpart of the Russian Federation's \"Army general\" rank.\n\nThe rank was usually given to senior officers of the Ministry of Defence and General Staff, and also to meritorious military district commanders. From the 1970s, it was also frequently given to the heads of the KGB and the Ministry of the Interior.\n\nSoviet \"army generals\" include Ivan Chernyakhovsky (the youngest Soviet World War II front commander, killed in East Prussia), Aleksei Antonov (head of the General Staff in the closing stages of World War II, awarded the Order of Victory), Issa Pliyev (an Ossetian-born World War II commander who played a major role in the Cuban Missile Crisis) and Yuri Andropov (who held the rank as head of the KGB).\n\nThe Soviet rank of \"army general\" is comparable to NATO OF-9 level and equivalent to the UK and US ranks of general; Soviet and current Russian rank systems also have a marshal rank.\n\nThe corresponding naval rank is admiral of the fleet, which has been used in both the Soviet and Russian navies, although conferred much more rarely.\n\n\"Army general\" was used for the infantry and marines, but in the air force, artillery, armoured troops, engineer troops and signal troops the ranks of marshal of the branch and chief marshal of the branch (also on OF-9 level) were used.\n\nThe contemporary Russian Army retains the rank of \"army general\" and it is still frequently used. After the dissolution of the Soviet Union the ranks of marshal of the branch and chief marshal of the branch were abolished, and the most senior officers of these branches now hold the rank of \"army general\".\n\nAlthough chief marshals and marshals and admirals of the fleet were in service equivalent to the \"army general\", in rank they superseded them until 1974 when the rank \"army general\" was formally equated with the chief marshals of a troop arm and marshals of a troop arm. It was at this time that their shoulder straps were changed from a four star to a single, larger star and the army logo (making them visually similar to the marshal shoulder strap). Likewise after 1974 they were permitted to wear the marshal's star necklace.\n\nBefore 1943, \"army generals\" wore five stars on their collar patches (\"petlitsy\"). Since 1943, they have worn four stars on their shoulder straps. From 1974 they wore a single large star with a ground forces emblem. In 1997 their Russian successors returned to the four-star insignia.\n\nIn 2013 the single large star returned as the insignia for the rank of \"army general\" in the Russian Federation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306622", "title": "Image macro", "text": "Image macro\n\nAn image macro is digital media featuring a picture, or artwork, superimposed with some form of text. They are one of the most common forms of internet memes, a term that has come to mean the rapid dissemination and uptake of \"particular idea[s] presented as [...] written text, image, language 'move', or some other unit of cultural 'stuff.\n\nImage macros often feature a \"witty message\" or \"catchphrase,\" although not all image macros are necessarily humorous. LOLCats, which are images of expressive cats coupled with texts, are considered to be the first notable occurrence of image macros. Advice animal image macros, also referred to as stock-character macros, are also highly associated with the image macro template.\n\nThe term \"image macro\" originated on the Something Awful forums. The name derived from the fact that the \"macros\" were a short bit of text a user could enter that the forum software would automatically parse and expand into the code for a pre-defined image. This, in turn, related to the computer science topic of a macro; \"a rule or pattern that specifies how a certain input sequence (often a sequence of characters) should be mapped to an output sequence (also often a sequence of characters) according to a defined procedure\".\n\n\"Macro\" is itself an abbreviation of a longer word, \"macroinstruction\".\n\nBeginning in 2007, lolcats and similar image macros (a form of internet phenomenon) spread beyond the initial communities who created them and became widely popular.\n\nAlthough they come in many forms, the most common type of image macros consists of:\n\nCats and other animals in general have been a popular choice for images with humorous captions since the mid 2000s. Some common animal-related image macros include lolcats, every time you masturbate... God kills a kitten, O RLY?, Doge and Grumpy Cat.\n\nO RLY is often used on the internet as an abbreviation for the phrase \"Oh, really?\" Originally started with a snowy owl photograph (which is the classic O RLY image macro), it spread out over the Web quickly and was followed by other macros that convey a wide range of emotions.\n\nAnother style of image macro that has amassed its own separate subculture is the \"lolcat\", an image combining a photograph of a cat with text intended to contribute humour. The text is often idiosyncratic and grammatically incorrect, and its use in this way is known as \"lolspeak\". Many times, the image is told from the point of view of the animal.\n\n\"Rage faces\" from Rage Comics are used to humorously depict an everyday or exaggerated situation or reaction. Although Rage Comics in themselves are not image macros, images of specific rage faces are taken and put into image macro format and used in conjunction to their implied emotion or context.\n\nAnother popular type of image macro includes a picture of a certain person or figure drawn from various sources in front of a colored background, known as \"advice animals\". These \"characters\" often share the same image, but different internet users can choose different humorous captions. These characters can include \"Bad Luck Brian\", \"Success Kid\", and \"Scumbag Steve\", among others. Bad Luck Brian image captions are used for unfortunate situations, Success Kid image captions depict an everyday situation involving good luck, and Scumbag Steve captions describe an unfriendly action taken by somebody.\n\nWebsites such as Know Your Meme document image macros such as Bad Luck Brian that have become popular enough to become internet memes, covering such topics as their original intended meaning, spread and popularity (as measured by Google search interest over time).\n\nAnother common trend in image macros is using specific scenes from television or movies such as One does not simply walk into Mordor from Lord of the Rings and 'Not Sure If-' from Futurama that uses a screen image of the character Fry looking unsure with his eyes squinted.\n\nSome image macros have been criticised for creating space for \"dogwhistling\", by leaving ambiguous space for interpretations along racist, sexist and other lines. The ambiguity in interpretations is referred to as Poe's Law, where there is difficulty separating satire and sincere communication within image macros.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306629", "title": "Marc Webb", "text": "Marc Webb\n\nMarc Preston Webb (born August 31, 1974) is an American music video director and filmmaker. He made his feature film directorial debut with the 2009 romantic comedy-drama \"500 Days of Summer\", and went on to direct the 2012 \"Spider-Man\" reboot \"The Amazing Spider-Man\", its 2014 sequel, \"The Amazing Spider-Man 2\", and the 2017 drama films \"Gifted\" and \"The Only Living Boy in New York\".\n\nWebb was born in Bloomington, Indiana, the son of Margaret Ruth (née Stocker) and Norman Lott Webb, who works in math education at the University of Wisconsin. When he was eighteen months old, Webb's family moved to Madison, Wisconsin, where he was raised. He graduated from Madison West High School in 1992, and subsequently attended Colorado College, and the University of Wisconsin–Madison, from which he graduated with an English degree.\n\nHis feature-length debut, \"500 Days of Summer\", starring Joseph Gordon-Levitt and Zooey Deschanel, was released in July 2009 to a positive critical reception. In January 2010, Columbia Pictures hired Webb to direct \"The Amazing Spider-Man\", a reboot of the \"Spider-Man\" film franchise, released in July 2012 and starring Andrew Garfield and Emma Stone. He returned to direct the sequel, \"The Amazing Spider-Man 2\", which was released on May 2, 2014.\n\nIn 2015, Webb directed promotional ads for a partnership between Samsung and \"\".\n\nWebb is signed to DNA in Hollywood, California, and Academy Productions Ltd in the United Kingdom.\n\nIn February 2019, he signed on to direct the live-action reimagined version of the 2016 Japanese animated movie hit \"Your Name\".\n\nIn 2013, Christopher Keyser and Webb pitched the mystery drama \"The Society\" to Showtime, but the network later decided to pass on the series. On July 24, 2018, Netflix announced that they had given the production a series order for a first season. The series created by Keyser and executive produced by both, Keyser and Webb, premiered on May 10, 2019. In September 2019, it was announced that Webb will direct a live-action adaptation of Disney's \"Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs\".\n\nWebb's signature is a white lamb, which has appeared in a few of his videos. In Brand New's \"Sic Transit Gloria... Glory Fades\" video, the lamb appears on the door before Jesse Lacey enters the bar. It also appears on the shirt of a girl in the bar. In Yellowcard's \"Ocean Avenue\" and \"Rough Landing, Holly\" videos, the lamb appears on the briefcase Ryan Key carries around.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306635", "title": "Army general (France)", "text": "Army general (France)\n\nArmy general () is the highest active military rank of the French Army and the National Gendarmerie. \n\nOfficially, it is not a rank but a position and style bestowed on some divisional generals, which is the highest substantive rank, in charge of important commands, such as Chief of Staff of the French Army or Chief of the Defence Staff. It is an OF–9 NATO rank, equivalent to the Air Force \"air army general\" and the Navy \"admiral\".\n\nIn the army, only a Marshal of France is higher; however, Marshal of France is not a rank, but a dignity in the State, today not bestowed. There is no higher rank in the Gendarmerie.\n\nThe rank was created on 6 June 1939 by a decree of the President of the French Republic published in the \"Journal Officiel de la République Française\", following a joint report by the Ministers of War, of the Navy and of the Air. They came to the conclusion that the higher hierarchy was more often in relation with the one of other countries, which frequently had more than two general ranks. By necessity, two positions and styles were created to address this issue, army general and corps general. The decree also provided that the divisional generals already commanding a corps were made corps generals and the ones members of the Superior War Council army generals.\n\nA French army general displays five stars on a shoulder board; the number of stars should not be compared with that of generals from other NATO countries, usually denoted by four stars only. The rank in the National Gendarmerie additionally displays a golden grenade above the stars. No shoulder board are worn on the full dress or service dress uniform; instead, the insignia is worn on the sleeves.\n\nAfter the Second World War the design of the full dress uniform kepi for a general changed, now also displaying the stars. It was already the case for field headgear, with no other ornament than the stars.\n\nThe mention of the current usage of \"a sixth star authorized for the army general in command of the Paris sector\" is an urban legend.\n\nThe title of army general in France and elsewhere should not be confused with the rank of general of the army, which is more senior, and corresponds to other countries' marshal or field marshal. The rank of \"general of the army\" \"theoretically\" corresponds to overall command of an entire national army with several armies in the field, while the title \"army general\" only corresponds to the command of an individual army in the field.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306638", "title": "Tan Lark Sye", "text": "Tan Lark Sye\n\nTan Lark Sye (; 1897 - 11 September 1972) was a prominent Chinese businessman and philanthropist active in Singapore.\n\nTan was born in a Hoklo peasant family of seven in Jimei of Tong An in Fujian, China. Born into of very limited means, and orphaned young, he had little chance of an education before he made his way to Nanyang in 1916 together with his brothers, at the age of 18.\n\nIn Singapore, Tan worked in one of Tan Kah Kee's factories, and within half a year he was promoted to a responsible position in Tan Kah Kee's Khiam Aik (Qianyi) company. Not long afterward, he left the company to set up a rubber enterprise with the help from his brothers, but the enterprise lost half its capital in a year.\n\nTan then ran it alone and after several years, he built up his Aik Hoe (Yihe) rubber company and became one of the leading rubber industrialists of the region. He expanded his business to all parts of Malaya, Thailand and India and diversified into insurance, paper and cement industries. His career as an industrialist peaked in the 1950s, when his company reaped huge profits from the rising price of rubber.\n\nTan was stripped of his Malayan citizenship in Singapore in 1963 by the Malaysian Federal Government as a suspected communist, and remained stateless since then. Tan died in 1972 in Singapore at the age of 76, leaving behind 11 sons and 3 daughters.\n\nTan was an activist, and like other entrepreneurs of his time, he believed in the value of education. As chairman of the Chinese Chamber of Commerce in the 1950s, he fought for citizenship for Chinese people in Singapore and for the Chinese language to be one of Singapore's official languages.\n\nAs the long-time president of the Singapore Hokkien Huay Kuan, Tan Lark Sye contributed generously to charitable and educational causes throughout his life. He provided strong support for educational institutions under the auspices of the association, including Kong Hwa School, Tao Nan School, Nan Chiau Girls' High School, and . He also contributed to financing the institutions in Jimei founded by Tan Kah Kee.\n\nIn 1957 he donated considerable sums to Thailand's Hokkien clan association to build overseas Chinese schools. His contributions to education, however, were not confined to Chinese schools. In 1949, when the University of Malaya was set up, Tan donated S$300,000, and between 1950 and 1960 he contributed to the building of schools of different language mediums.\n\nTan's most outstanding contribution, however, was the initiating of the founding of Nanyang University in 1953. He donated S$5 million to its building fund, as well as of land for its campus on behalf of the Hokkien Huay Kuan. Between 1953 and 1963, he was Chairman of Nanyang University's Executive Committee, and was in charge of various aspects of the university by building, teaching staff, research facilities, library, student welfare and others. Nanyang University was later merged with The University of Singapore in 1980 to form the current National University of Singapore.\n\nThe establishment of Nanyang University had a lasting influence on Chinese education in the region and beyond. It pioneered the establishment of Chinese Studies departments in Ngee Ann College, the University of Singapore and the University of Malaya. The establishment of the Chinese University of Hong Kong, and the Southern University College in Johor, Malaysia, were also inspired by the ideals underlying the founding of Nanyang University.\n\nIn 1974, a Tan Lark Sye scholarship was set up, and in 1998 the Tan Lark Sye professorship in Chinese language and culture was established to honour Tan.\n\nTan Lark Sye Library, New Era University College, Malaysia was named after him.\n"}
{"id": "2306648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306648", "title": "Market structure", "text": "Market structure\n\nMarket structure has historically emerged in two separate types of discussions in economics, that of Adam Smith on the one hand, and that of Karl Marx on the other hand. Adam Smith in his writing on economics stressed the importance of laissez-faire principles outlining the operation of the market in the absence of dominant political mechanisms of control, while Karl Marx discussed the working of the market in the presence of a controlled economy, sometimes referred to as a command economy in the literature. Both types of market structure have been in historical evidence throughout the twentieth century and twenty-first century.\n\nThe discussion of market structure in free economies as described by Adam Smith is often qualified or discussed in terms of patterns of market organization which serve the buyers and sellers in any particular form of the marketplace. Some types of market structure may be described using several recurrent types of descriptive organizational mechanism which may or may not dominate any particular market over time or at particular points in time, such as;\n\n\nThe imperfectly competitive structure is quite identical to the realistic market conditions where some monopolistic competitors, monopolists, oligopolists, and duopolists exist and dominate the market conditions. The elements of Market Structure include the number and size distribution of firms, entry conditions, and the extent of differentiation.\n\nThese somewhat abstract concerns tend to determine some but not all details of a specific concrete market system where buyers and sellers actually meet and commit to trade. Competition is useful because it reveals actual customer demand and induces the seller (operator) to provide service quality levels and price levels that buyers (customers) want, typically subject to the seller's financial need to cover its costs. In other words, competition can align the seller's interests with the buyer's interests and can cause the seller to reveal his true costs and other private information. In the absence of perfect competition, three basic approaches can be adopted to deal with problems related to the control of market power and an asymmetry between the government and the operator with respect to objectives and information: (a) subjecting the operator to competitive pressures, (b) gathering information on the operator and the market, and (c) applying incentive regulation.\n\nThe correct sequence of the market structure from most to least competitive is perfect competition, imperfect competition, oligopoly, and pure monopoly.\n\nThe main criteria by which one can distinguish between different market structures are: the number and size of producers and consumers in the market, the type of goods and services being traded, and the degree to which information can flow freely.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306652", "title": "Aaron Small", "text": "Aaron Small\n\nAaron James Small (born November 23, 1971, in Oxnard, California) is an American former Major League Baseball pitcher.\n\nSmall played for the Toronto Blue Jays, Florida Marlins, Oakland Athletics, Arizona Diamondbacks, New York Yankees and Atlanta Braves. Regarded as a career minor leaguer, he played for a total of more than 20 teams, including his major and minor league stops, during his professional career. He also played for the Edmonton Trappers in 1996 where he threw a no-hitter on August 8.\n\nSmall attended South Hills High School in West Covina, California. Small was a 1st-team all-conference selection in baseball, and lettered in basketball. He graduated in 1989.\n\nSmall's high school baseball teammates included future major league players Jason Giambi, who he would later play with on the Athletics and Yankees, and Cory Lidle, as well as Jeremy Giambi. Small also played high school baseball with Shawn Wooten, who was on the 2002 World Series Angels team.\n\nSmall was drafted by the Toronto Blue Jays in the 22nd round of the 1989 Major League Baseball Draft. He debuted for the Blue Jays in 1994, but was traded to the Florida Marlins in 1995 for minor leaguer Ernie Delgado. Over the next ten years, Small would split most of his time between Triple-A and the majors, with major league appearances for the Oakland Athletics, Arizona Diamondbacks, Atlanta Braves, and a second stint with the Marlins, before joining the Yankees.\n\nIn addition, Small was also a member of the Milwaukee Brewers, Tampa Bay Devil Rays, Colorado Rockies and Anaheim Angels organizations, though he never pitched in the major leagues for those teams.\n\nSmall began 2005 in the Yankees minor league system, pitching for Double-A Trenton and Triple-A Columbus. Due to injuries, he was called up to the Yankees to fill in, making his first start on July 20, which he won.\n\nSmall recorded 10 major league victories without a loss. Small recorded his first major league complete game shutout, which came against the Oakland Athletics on September 3, 2005. His pitch count during the game was just over 110 and he struck out the last batter he faced, Dan Johnson, and Small received the baseball from catcher Jorge Posada as a remembrance.\n\nSmall was the first Yankees pitcher to win his first 9 decisions since Tommy John in 1979, and became just the fourth pitcher in history to win at least 10 games without a loss, joining Tom Zachary, Dennis Lamp, and Howie Krist. He finished the 2005 season 10–0 with a 3.20 earned run average and 37 strikeouts. He was re-signed to a one-year, $1.2 million contract during the off-season.\n\nDuring 2006 spring training, Small injured his right hamstring. He missed the start of the season, but returned to the team on April 30, 2006.\n\nOn June 17, 2006, Small was designated for assignment by the Yankees and was outrighted to Triple-A Columbus.\n\nOn January 23, 2007, Small signed a minor league contract with the Seattle Mariners. However, on May 18, 2007, he announced his retirement after being released by the Mariners.\n\nOn August 2, , Small took part in the 62nd Annual Old-Timers' Day at Yankee Stadium. Six weeks prior, Small survived a bout with encephalitis that included a medically induced coma lasting eight days. He was again honored by the New York Yankees at Old Timers' Day on June 26, 2011, and July 1, 2012.\n\nSmall, along with his wife Macy, is a devout Christian. He is active in his church, Fairview Baptist Tabernacle in Sweetwater, Tennessee, where they served as youth directors for 11 years. Small runs his own baseball facility in Loudon, TN call Aaron Small’s Baseball Barn. He also travels and shares his story of what God has done in his life, in and out of baseball. \n"}
{"id": "2306657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306657", "title": "Michael Krasny (businessman)", "text": "Michael Krasny (businessman)\n\nMichael Krasny (born 1952/1953) is an American billionaire businessman from Illinois. He is the founder and former chief executive officer of CDW Corporation, a direct seller of technical gadgets including computers and networking equipment.\n\nKrasny grew up in a Jewish family in Illinois. He graduated from the University of Illinois Gies College of Business in 1975. \n\nHe worked as a Toyota car salesman at his father's auto dealership in Arlington Heights, Illinois. In 1981, he quit his job as a car salesman and took some classes in computer programming but being unsuccessful in finding steady work, Krasny was forced to sell his own computer for cash. He placed a $3 ad in the Chicago Tribune and ended up selling his computer for a $200 profit.\n\nSeeing the great demand for computers, Krasny began buying computers to resell them eventually forming MPK Computers. A year later he changed the name to Computer Discount Warehouse (CDW) and steadily grew the business. In 1993, he took CDW public. Krasny retired in 2007 after selling the company to Madison Dearborn Partners for $7.3 billion.\n\nAccording to \"Forbes\", his first caller from 1982 is still a customer (as of 2000).\n\nSince 2009, as a hobby, Krasny has operated a woodworking shop in Northbrook, Illinois called Custom Woodworking Design, making plaques and awards.\n\nKrasny is married, with one child, and they live in Highland Park, Illinois.\n"}
{"id": "2306660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306660", "title": "Frank Eugene Corder", "text": "Frank Eugene Corder\n\nFrank Eugene Corder (May 26, 1956 – September 12, 1994) was an American truck driver. He stole a Cessna 150 late on September 11, 1994 and crashed the stolen aircraft onto the South Lawn of the White House early on September 12, 1994, attempting to land the plane on the south lawn of the White House; he was killed, and was the sole casualty.\n\nCorder was born in Perry Point, Maryland, the son of William Eugene Corder, who was an aircraft mechanic, and Dorothy Corder. He dropped out of Aberdeen High School in the eleventh grade and enlisted in the Army in October 1974. Corder was stationed at Fort Knox, Kentucky and Fort Carson, Colorado, where he was trained as a mechanic. He was honorably discharged from military service in July 1975 at the rank of private first class. After his service ended, he worked as a truck driver from 1976 until his employment was terminated in early 1993.\n\nOn April 15, 1993, Corder was arrested for theft and was arrested again later that year on October 9 for drug dealing. He was sentenced to spend 90 days at a drug rehabilitation center and was released in February 1994. After he was released, he was living with his third wife Lydia at Keyser's Motel in Aberdeen, Maryland. Lydia Corder left Frank three weeks prior to the incident, which is thought to have driven him towards deep depression and suicide. Friends claim he bore no ill will towards President Bill Clinton and probably only wanted the publicity of the stunt, based largely on his sentiments towards Mathias Rust's flight of a Cessna 172 from Finland to Moscow, USSR. The President was not even in the mansion at the time due to renovations, but was instead staying at Blair House.\n\nCorder stole the Cessna on the night of September 11 and departed from Aldino Airport in Maryland while severely intoxicated, which is presumed to have led to his later miscalculation. The plane was noticed by radar technicians at National Airport several minutes before he tried to steer it into the wall of the White House. At 1:49 a.m., he hit the South Lawn and died on impact.\n\nThe crash caused a re-evaluation in security procedures around the White House, as the pilot had entered restricted airspace. Though the White House is rumored to be equipped with surface-to-air missiles, none were fired. The Secret Service has neither confirmed nor dispelled the rumor.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306663", "title": "List of Alaska Native tribal entities", "text": "List of Alaska Native tribal entities\n\nThis is a list of Alaska Native tribal entities which are recognized by the United States Bureau of Indian Affairs. For related lists, see the List of Indian reservations in the United States, List of Native American Tribal Entities (federally recognized lower 48 groups) and List of State Recognized American Indian Tribal Entities.\n\nThis list pertains only to the state of Alaska, and is maintained by the U.S. Federal Government. For more detail on how Alaska Native villages came to be tracked in this way, see Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act of 1971. This version was updated based on \"Federal Register\", Volume 74, Number 183 dated August 11, 2009 (74 FR 40218) \"Indian Entities Recognized and Eligible to Receive Services from the United States Bureau of Indian Affairs\" (August 11, 2009), when the number of Alaskan Native tribes entities totaled 231.\n\nThe list is maintained in alphabetical order with respect to the name of the tribe or village. Leading words such as \"Village of\" or \"Native Village of\" are ignored for this purpose. Ancillary information present in former versions of this list but no longer contained in the current listing have been included here in italics print.\n\nNote that while the names of Alaska Native tribal entities often include \"Village of\" or \"Native Village of,\" in most cases the tribal entity cannot be considered as identical to the city, town, or census-designated place in which the tribe is located, as some residents may be non-tribal members and a separate city government may exist. Nor should Alaska Native tribes be confused with Alaska Native Regional Corporations, which are a class of Alaska for-profit corporations created under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (ANCSA) of 1971.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"None\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"None\"\n\n\n\"None\"\n\n\nFederal Registers containing the \"Indian Entities Recognized and Eligible To Receive Services From the United States Bureau of Indian Affairs\" to which \"Federally recognized tribes\" and \"List of Alaska Native Tribal Entities\" derive their listings. To view the Federal Register, please visit The Federal Register page of the GPO.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306664", "title": "Michael Krasny (talk show host)", "text": "Michael Krasny (talk show host)\n\nMichael Jay Krasny (born September 22, 1944) is an American radio host and professor who is currently the host of \"Forum\", a news and public affairs program on San Francisco public radio station KQED-FM covering current events, politics, and culture. Krasny has served as the host of \"Forum\" since 1993. Additionally, Krasny is currently a professor of English literature at San Francisco State University.\n\nIn the late 1970s, Krasny hosted a weekly Marin County talk show called \"Beyond the Hot Tub\" on low-power rock radio station KTIM-FM. He went on to host a popular radio program on KGO (AM) from 1984 to December 1992. He became the host of \"Forum\" in 1993, expanding the focus of the program to more national themes.\n\nKrasny is a professor of English at San Francisco State University where he has taught primarily American literature since 1970. He received his B.A. \"cum laude\" in 1966 and M.A. in 1967 from Ohio University, where he attended the Honors College and became a member of Phi Beta Kappa. He holds a Ph.D. in 20th century American literature from the University of Wisconsin–Madison.\n\nKrasny is a widely published scholar, critic and fiction writer. He has also worked widely as a facilitator and host in the corporate sector and as a moderator for nonprofit events.\n\nKrasny is a long-time resident of Greenbrae, California.\nSFSU Online Magazine reports that Krasny's wife is an attorney and an alumna of San Francisco State University, and that Krasny has two daughters.\n\nBorn in Cleveland and raised in Cleveland Heights, Ohio, Krasny is a second-generation American whose grandparents immigrated from Russia and Lithuania and grew up in a Jewish household. In his 2010 book \"Spiritual Envy\", Krasny revealed that he became agnostic later in life.\n\nMichael is among the outstanding graduates of Cleveland Heights High School (class of 1962) featured in the book \"Every Tiger Has a Tale.\" Despite his intellectual reputation today, Krasny admits to having had a \"bad boy\" reputation while growing up in Cleveland Heights.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306667", "title": "Ocee, Georgia", "text": "Ocee, Georgia\n\nOcee was a small community in Milton County, now located in Johns Creek in Fulton County, Georgia. It was centered at .\n\nIt was originally called New York, then Mazeppa. The Ocee name, which was taken from the name of a Cherokee community in the area, is still in use today for a school, a park, a library and a church, among others. Ocee is now a part of the new city of Johns Creek, named after Johns Creek which flows just east of it. That city is a part of the municipalization of northern Fulton.\n"}
{"id": "2306669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306669", "title": "Monkey Puzzle (band)", "text": "Monkey Puzzle (band)\n\nMonkey Puzzle is an a cappella music group from Bloomington, Indiana which formed in the mid-1990s, releasing their first CD in 1995. In 1999 they won the award for \"Best World/Folk Song\" from The Contemporary A Cappella Society and their third CD was nominated by the same organization for Best Album of 1999. As of 2005, they are still performing, though only conducting occasional reunion concerts the most recent of which was in 2013. \n\nThe group is known for composing unusual sound mixes and lyrics using the broad range of capabilities present within its members. Their music covers a fairly broad range of music styles including pop/rock, world, folk and even chant.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306684", "title": "Weitz", "text": "Weitz\n\nWeitz is a German surname. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306692", "title": "Illinois Route 48", "text": "Illinois Route 48\n\nIllinois Route 48 (IL 48) is an north–south state highway with its southern terminus at Interstate 55 (I-55) and IL 127 in Raymond and its northern terminus at IL 54 east of Clinton.\n\nIL 48 travels southwest to northeast from I-55 to east of Clinton. It is an undivided surface street for its entire length. It also serves the cities of Raymond, Harvel, Taylorville, and Decatur.\n\nSBI Route 48 traveled from Onarga to Raymond via the current IL 48 and IL 54. The portion from DeWitt to Onarga became U.S. Route 54 (US 54) in 1942, but in 1972 US 54 was pulled back to its current terminus in Pittsfield, and IL 54 was implemented from Springfield to Onarga.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306694", "title": "Alex Graman", "text": "Alex Graman\n\nAlex Joseph Graman (born November 17, 1977) is former Major League Baseball pitcher. He bats and throws left-handed. He retired (as a player) in 2014.\n\nGraman was a three-time letterman for coach Bob Warn at Indiana State University from 1997 to 1999. He finished his career as a second team All-MVC in 1998. Graman ranks fourth in Indiana State history with five games of 10+ strikeouts in a career and is seventh on the school's single season strikeout list with 112. He was drafted in the third round by the New York Yankees.\n\nGraman spent 6 seasons in the New York Yankees system; 1999 with the Staten Island Yankees, where he went 6-3 and was named the Top Prospect in the New York–Penn League. In 2000, he was with the Tampa Yankees of the Florida State League, compiled a record of 8-9 and was promoted to Double A with the Norwich Navigators of the Eastern League. he spent 2001 and part of 2002 with the Navigators as he went 17-11 and earned another promotion to Triple A with the Columbus Clippers of the International League in 2002. He spent the next four seasons (2002–2005) in Columbus, going 31-31, and New York. In 2004, he led the International League in strikeouts (129) and was selected as an All-Star for the Clippers. He finished the 2005 season with the Louisville Bats, the top farm club of the Cincinnati Reds, where he compiled a record of 2-1.\n\nGraman made his debut in Major League Baseball with the New York Yankees in , after six seasons in the Yankee farm system. In his first start against the Chicago White Sox, he gave up 5 runs in 2 innings pitched. In his next start against the Tampa Bay Devil Rays, he only lasted a third of an inning, giving up five earned runs, but avoided a loss in both appearances. He was outrighted to the Yankee Triple-A club in Columbus after the game with the Tampa Bay squad. He finished the year with a 19.80 ERA.\n\nIn , he fared only slightly better, giving up 2 earned runs in one and a third innings before being designated for assignment by the Yankees and later released. On August 10, 2005, Graman signed with the Cincinnati Reds. He pitched in 5 games for their Triple-A affiliate, the Louisville Bats, but despite having a 3.09 ERA, he was released on September 12, 2005.\nIn 5 Major League games, all with the Yankees, he has pitched in 6 innings and given up 17 hits and 13 runs all earned for an ERA of 18.47.\n\nOn January 15, 2006, Graman signed a one-year, 50 million yen (about US$467,000) contract with the Seibu Lions. Graman re-signed with the Lions after the season. Beginning in , he replaced Chikara Onodera as the closer.\n\nGraman came into his own as a closer, finishing with a 3-3 record, 31 saves, and a 1.42 ERA. He helped the Lions win the Pacific League championship and the Climax Series before saving Games 1 and 7 of the Japan Series as Seibu beat the Yomiuri Giants 4 games to 3. Graman tossed the final two innings of Game 7, allowing no hits or walks while striking out two. He finished the postseason by allowing two earned runs in five innings, but did not allow a run in three Japan Series frames.\n\nOpening day 2009 found Alex with the defending champions, the Saitama Seibu Lions for his fourth season in the Japanese Pacific League.\n\nGraman's growth as a pitcher while in Japan, lead many in baseball to believe he would return to the Major Leagues as a set-up man or long reliever; however, he had retired as a player by 2013 but was beginning a scouting career.\n\nOn January 16, 2012, Graman signed a contract with a bonus of $50,000 with Kia Tigers of the Korea Baseball Organization. However, he failed the medical test and the pitching workout. Tigers decided not to sign Graman on February 5, 2012.\n"}
{"id": "2306715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306715", "title": "Newport Creamery", "text": "Newport Creamery\n\nNewport Creamery is a chain of restaurants in Rhode Island and southern Massachusetts. Since its first restaurant opened in 1940, it has been primarily known for ice cream and, later, the \"Awful Awful\" milkshake. The company is based in Middletown, Rhode Island.\n\nNewport Creamery began with Samuel Rector's Newport, Rhode Island dairy business in 1928. Rector began as a wholesaler and started home delivery in 1932. In 1940, Rector and his son opened their first restaurant in nearby Middletown, where the company is still headquartered. For its first 13 years, the restaurant sold only ice cream, adding other food to the menu in 1953. In the 1950s and 1960s, it was franchised, eventually expanding to 33 restaurants.\n\nIn the late 1990s, the company ran into financial trouble, losing money, deferring maintenance, and closing 12 of its locations. In 1999 the Rector family sold the chain to Florida businessman, Robert Swain, for $7.6 million. Swain tried to expand the business's geographic coverage into Massachusetts and Connecticut. The expansion was unsuccessful, and was followed by contraction. The company filed for bankruptcy protection in 2000. In 2001, Jan Companies, a local Burger King franchisee, purchased the company for only $1.55 million.\n\nThe chain is known for Awful Awful milkshakes, made from blended syrups and a proprietary ice milk. The drink started at the New Jersey–based chain, Bond's, in the 1940s. The name comes from a Bond's customer who called it \"awful big and awful good\". In 1948, Bond's licensed it to Newport Creamery and then to Massachusetts-based Friendly's. The terms of the license mandated the two New England businesses not sell it in New Jersey, leading the expanding Friendly's chain to rebrand it as a \"Fribble\", and later changing its formula to be more like a traditional milkshake with ice cream instead of ice milk. When Bond's went out of business in the 1970s, Newport Creamery purchased the trademark and continues to serve the original recipe.\n\nNewport Creamery was featured on a 2019 episode of the Cooking Channel's \"Man v. Food\", where host Casey Webb successfully finished three Awful Awful milkshakes in one sitting.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306717", "title": "Golden Gate, Oakland, California", "text": "Golden Gate, Oakland, California\n\nThe Golden Gate neighborhood of Oakland, California is located in the northwest corner of the city, east of Emeryville and south of Berkeley. It includes the Golden Gate Shopping District, the stretch of San Pablo Avenue between 53rd Street on the south, and the Oakland-Berkeley border at 67th Street to the north. The neighborhood includes the area from a few blocks west of San Pablo Avenue (the Emeryville border) to Adeline Street on the east.\n\nThe district includes cafes and arts establishments.\n\nThe area was inhabited by the Huchiun band of the Ohlone people, then was part of the Rancho San Antonio grant, which was split up following the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo.\n\nCharles Alexander Klinkner built 75 homes in the area and called it Klinknerville, established in 1885. A Klinknerville post office was established in 1887. The name was changed to Golden Gate in 1888. The town was annexed to Oakland in 1897.\n\nThe Golden Gate branch of the Oakland Library opened in 1918. It was built with funds from a 1914 Carnegie grant. Its design, by Donovan and Dickie, is a good example of early 20th century Georgian Revival Architecture.\n\nIn the first half of the 20th century, Golden Gate was an entertainment district, with over 50 bars including the original Trader Vic's location at the northeast corner of San Pablo Ave & 65th St where the Mai Tai drink was purportedly invented. In the last half of the 20th century the retail district underwent a period of decline and by 1998 was considered blighted by the city of Oakland.\n\nDuring the 1950s, the area became majority African American.\n\nIn 1982, the East Bay Negro Historical Society (EBNHS) was invited into the Golden Gate Branch of the Oakland Public Library, making it the first Oakland city library with a predominantly African American focused collection. The collection was housed in the entire left side of the library where the children's section of the library is now located. The assistance of Mayor Lionel Wilson, Assemblyman Elihu Harris, and others helped the organization establish a solid foundation in their new home. Following the appointment of Dr. Lawrence Crouchett as its executive director in 1988, the organization changed its name to the Northern California Center for Afro-American History & Life (NCCAAHL). In 1994, the City of Oakland and the NCCAAHL merged to create the African American Museum & Library at Oakland (AAMLO). This unique public/private partnership entered a historic juncture with the opening of AAMLO in February 2002. Located at 659 14th Street, AAMLO is now housed in the former Charles S. Greene library, an historic 1902 Carnegie building.\n\nThe Golden Gate Shopping District was the location of Your Black Muslim Bakery, which made national headlines in August 2007 when the bakery was raided by the Oakland police and shut down.\n\nBy 2010 the area was undergoing a process of gentrification, including controversially being dubbed \"NOBE\" by some realtors.\n\nStarting in 2014, the neighborhood has hosted Love Our Neighborhood Day, an open streets festival in which San Pablo Avenue is car free.\n\nOakland North has covered the neighborhood since 2008 and Oakland Local since 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306727", "title": "South West African Police", "text": "South West African Police\n\nThe South West African Police, often abbreviated to SWAPOL, was the national police force of South West Africa (today Namibia). It was responsible for law enforcement in South West Africa when that territory was administered by South Africa. It was organised and structured both as a paramilitary force and as a civil police force. \n\nSWAPOL was established following World War I, when the South African government assumed administration of South West Africa under the terms of a League of Nations mandate. Between 1915 and 1919, public security and law enforcement were entrusted to the South African military police. On December 31, 1939, the rule of law returned to South West Africa when SWAPOL was founded as the territory's first civilian law enforcement agency. An investigation department was established in 1920. SWAPOL was disbanded in 1939, and its local units absorbed into the South African Police (SAP).\n\nThe SAP responsible for the territory from 1939 to 1981. Until 1981 it was a Provincial Police Region of the SAP, headed by a police lieutenant general. A third of all the policemen in the district were SAP transferrals from South Africa, with the remaining two-thirds being personnel recruited locally. The League of Nations mandate was terminated by the United Nations in 1966, with South Africa from then on illegally occupying South West Africa. SWAPOL was re-established in 1981, after the territory had become self-governing.\n\nThe first large scale contact between units of the SWAPOL and the People's Liberation Army of Namibia was in 1968. On July 14, 1968, a Police Patrolling team from Eenhana District Police, led by Sergeant Fourie, W/O Nelumbu, B/Constable Bavingi, Constable Schaefer, Constable Hattingh and B/Constable Kauluma were patrolling the Eenhana-Outapi Highway when their Land Rover jeep came under machine gun fire and grenade attack from a band of guerillas from the bushes. Their jeep tyres having been shot away, Sgt. Fourie and W/O Nelumbu fired back with their side arms (pistols) and a wounded Constable Hattingh brought to bear the lone Sten Gun in the jeep to drive the attack away, in the process rescuing under fire a wounded B/Constable Kauluma, the driver, who had been thrown from the jeep and wounded. Following this attack Police radio patrols in the highway region were strengthened with an additional jeep with 2 Policemen armed with the L1A1 Self Loading Rifle. In 1970 the situation had deteriorated to the extent that all Policemen in the Northern Region were given training in the L1A1 self loading rifle and the Sten Gun, and the SWAPOL Airwing started twice daily helicopter patrols along the Eenhana-Outapi Road \n\nUntil 1970, the arms sanctioned for SWAPOL units were as following - for Police Stations - 25 Batons, 8 Pistols, 3 Sten Guns, 12 Lee Enfield .303 Rifles, and 1 Bren light machine gun. For District Police Reserve Forces - 150 Batons and Shields, 20 Tear Gas Guns, 30 Pistols, 18 Sten Guns, 10 L1A1 Self Loading Rifles (introduced from December 1969) 36 Lee Enfield .303 Rifles, 20 Shotguns, and 4 Bren light machine guns. For Mobile Patrol/Flying Squad team - 2 Pistols, 1 Sten Gun, 2 L1A1 Self Loading Rifles. \n\nBetween 1974 and 1977, all Sten Guns and .303 Rifles were phased out and replaced with L1A1 Self Loading Rifles. 4 M2 Browning heavy machine guns, 2 of them mounted on mobile patrol, were also assigned to the District Police Reserve from 1974 onwards, and 1 M2 Browning assigned to each Police Station. From 1978 onwards, 2 105mm Recoilless Rifles were assigned to each Police Circle Reserve. Casspirs were provided at the level of District Reserve from 1982 onwards and at Police Stations from 1984 onwards. \n\nUntil 1981, the organization of the SWAPOL was as follows:\n\nSWAPOL's most controversial unit was its counter-insurgency division, which was known officially as SWAPOL-COIN or Operation K, but more commonly referred to as \"Koevoet\". Koevoet was initially an autonomous unit under the nominal authority of the SAP Security Branch, but became part of SWAPOL in 1985. Koevoet worked closely with SWAPOL's own Security Branch in investigating crimes of a political nature, namely politically motivated murders. The unit was better known for its combat operations against insurgents of the People's Liberation Army of Namibia (PLAN) in Ovamboland, which earned it a formidable reputation. Koevoet's hybrid status as a paramilitary police unit made it something of a legal anomaly; for example, it lacked the mandate to hold insurgents as prisoners of war. Insurgents were technically supposed to be apprehended for trial in open courts as common law criminals. Based on this interpretation, the South West African courts ruled that insurgents captured by Koevoet had to be granted legal representation and could not be detained indefinitely.\n\nWith the South African Border War drawing to a close in mid-1989, Koevoet was greatly reduced in size and most of its personnel were reassigned to other divisions by SWAPOL. Additionally, many of the South African personnel were transferred back to the South African Police or the Homeland Forces. In 1988, SWAPOL consisted of 6,500 uniformed personnel, including the 3000-man Koevoet force and the 300-man Air Wing, of which 4000 were local Blacks, 800 were local Whites, 1000 were South African Whites and 700 were South African Blacks. The local Municipal Constabulary, Homeland Guards and Traffic Police were entirely locals, both Black and White Nevertheless, the unit's continued existence was the subject of much controversy, as both current and former Koevoet operators were accused of political intimidation and human rights abuses. United Nations Security Council Resolution 640 explicitly named Koevoet as being a barrier to the peace process in Namibia and demanded its disbandment. SWAPOL dissolved the unit on October 30, 1989.\n"}
{"id": "2306731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306731", "title": "Health human resources", "text": "Health human resources\n\nHealth human resources (HHR) – also known as human resources for health (HRH) or health workforce – is defined as \"all people engaged in actions whose primary intent is to enhance health\", according to the World Health Organization's \"World Health Report 2006\". Human resources for health are identified as one of the core building blocks of a health system. They include physicians, nursing professionals, midwives, dentists, allied health professions, community health workers, social health workers and other health care providers, as well as health management and support personnel – those who may not deliver services directly but are essential to effective health system functioning, including health services managers, medical records and health information technicians, health economists, health supply chain managers, medical secretaries and others. \n\nThe field of health human resources deals with issues such as planning, development, performance, management, retention, information, and research on human resources for the health care sector. In recent years, raising awareness of the critical role of HRH in strengthening health system performance and improving population health outcomes has placed the health workforce high on the global health agenda.\n\nThe World Health Organization (WHO) estimates a shortage of almost 4.3 million physicians, midwives, nurses and support workers worldwide. The shortage is most severe in 57 of the poorest countries, especially in sub-Saharan Africa. The situation was declared on World Health Day 2006 as a \"health workforce crisis\" – the result of decades of underinvestment in health worker education, training, wages, working environment and management. \n\nShortages of skilled for health workers are also reported in many specific care areas. For example, there is an estimated shortage of 1.18 million mental health professionals, including 55,000 psychiatrists, 628,000 nurses in mental health settings, and 493,000 psychosocial care providers needed to treat mental disorders in 144 low- and middle-income countries. Shortages of skilled birth attendants in many developing countries remains an important barrier to improving maternal health outcomes. Many countries, both developed and developing, report maldistribution of skilled health workers leading to shortages in rural and underserved areas.\n\nRegular statistical updates on the global health workforce situation are collated in the WHO \"Global Health Observatory\". However, the evidence base remains fragmented and incomplete, largely related to weaknesses in the underlying human resource information systems (HRIS) within countries.\n\nIn order to learn from best practices in addressing health workforce challenges and strengthening the evidence base, an increasing number of HHR practitioners from around the world are focusing on issues such as HHR advocacy, surveillance and collaborative practice. Some examples of global HRH partnerships include:\n\nHealth workforce research is the investigation of how social, economic, organizational, political and policy factors affect access to health care professionals, and how the organization and composition of the workforce itself can affect health care delivery, quality, equity, and costs. \n\nMany government health departments, academic institutions and related agencies have established research programs to identify and quantify the scope and nature of HHR problems leading to health policy in building an innovative and sustainable health services workforce in their jurisdiction. Some examples of HRH information and research dissemination programs include:\n\n\nIn some countries and jurisdictions, health workforce planning is distributed among labour market participants. In others, there is an explicit policy or strategy adopted by governments and systems to plan for adequate numbers, distribution and quality of health workers to meet health care goals. For one, the International Council of Nurses reports:\nThe objective of HHRP [health human resources planning] is to provide the right number of health care workers with the right knowledge, skills, attitudes, and qualifications, performing the right tasks in the right place at the right time to achieve the right predetermined health targets.\n\nAn essential component of planned HRH targets is supply and demand modeling, or the use of appropriate data to link population health needs and/or health care delivery targets with human resources supply, distribution and productivity. The results are intended to be used to generate evidence-based policies to guide workforce sustainability. In resource-limited countries, HRH planning approaches are often driven by the needs of targeted programmes or projects, for example, those responding to the Millennium Development Goals or, more recently, the Sustainable Development Goals.\n\nThe WHO \"Workload Indicators of Staffing Need\" (WISN) is an HRH planning and management tool that can be adapted to local circumstances. It provides health managers a systematic way to make staffing decisions in order to better manage their human resources, based on a health worker's workload, with activity (time) standards applied for each workload component at a given health facility.\n\nThe main international policy framework for addressing shortages and maldistribution of health professionals is the \"Global Code of Practice on the International Recruitment of Health Personnel\", adopted by the WHO's 63rd World Health Assembly in 2010. The Code was developed in a context of increasing debate on international health worker recruitment, especially in some higher income countries, and its impact on the ability of many developing countries to deliver primary health care services. Although non-binding on the Member States and recruitment agencies, the Code promotes principles and practices for the ethical international recruitment of health personnel. It also advocates the strengthening of health personnel information systems to support effective health workforce policies and planning in countries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306732", "title": "Trikala (regional unit)", "text": "Trikala (regional unit)\n\nTrikala () is one of the regional units of Greece, forming the northwestern part of the region of Thessaly. Its capital is the town of Trikala. The regional unit includes the town of Kalampaka and the Meteora monastery complex.\n\nTrikala borders the regional units of Karditsa to the south, Arta to the southwest, Ioannina to the west, Grevena to the north and Larissa to the east.\n\nThe southeastern part belongs to the Thessalian Plain. The forested Pindus mountain range dominates the western part. The northern part of Trikala is also mountainous and made up of forests and barren lands, the ranges here are Chasia and Antichasia. Its major river is the Pineios, flowing to the south and east.\n\nIts climate is mainly of Mediterranean character, with hot summers and cold winters, along with temperate climate conditions by the mountains.\n\nThe regional unit Trikala is subdivided into 4 municipalities. These are (number as in the map in the infobox):\n\nTrikala was created as a prefecture () in 1882. As a part of the 2011 Kallikratis government reform, the regional unit Trikala was created out of the former prefecture Trikala. The prefecture had the same territory as the present regional unit. At the same time, the municipalities were reorganised, according to the table below.\n\nTrikala prefecture had two provinces, named Trikala and Kalampaka, after the two largest towns.\n\"Note:\" Provinces no longer hold any legal status in Greece.\n\nThe area of Trikala was relatively obscure in ancient Thessaly, as well as during the periods of Macedonian, Romans, and Byzantine rule. Under the Ottomans, Trikala was known as \"Tırhala\" and became the seat of the Sanjak of Tirhala, encompassing most of Thessaly, until the late 18th century. Despite a number of rebellions against Ottoman rule, the area remained under Ottoman control until joined with the independent Kingdom of Greece in 1881.\n\nUpon annexation by Greece, Trikala became the seat of one of the two prefectures in which Thessaly was divided (the other being Larissa Prefecture). The area was briefly occupied by the Ottomans again during the Greco-Turkish War of 1897, and by the Italians and Germans during the Axis occupation of Greece in World War II. In 1947, the southern part was split off as Karditsa Prefecture.\n\nThe agriculture of the area is famous, and produces a part of the country's production also in export. Its well-known production includes fruit and vegetables, cotton, olives, cattle and other foodstuffs.\n\n\nThere are a number of highways and the main railway from Volos to Meteora crosses Thessaly. The region is directly linked to the rest of Europe through International Airport of Central Greece located in Nea Anchialos in a small distance from Trikala. In the 1980s, the Trikala Bypass was opened and between 1998 and 2006, the Via Egnatia was under construction with tunnels and bridges ; the first section was opened in 2002, and the final section in 2006.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306738", "title": "Legio V Macedonica", "text": "Legio V Macedonica\n\nLegio quinta Macedonica (the Fifth Macedonian Legion) was a Roman legion. It was probably originally levied in 43 BC by consul Gaius Vibius Pansa Caetronianus and Gaius Iulius Caesar Octavianus (later known as the Emperor Augustus). It was based in the Balkan provinces of Macedonia, Moesia and Dacia. In the Notitia Dignitatum records from beginning of the fifth century, the legion was still stationed in Dacia, with detachments stationed in the east and Egypt.\n\nThe last known evidence shows the legion, or detachments from it, stationed in Egypt in the seventh century one or two years before the Islamic conquest of Egypt. It is often assumed that the legion fought in this war and was destroyed, although it is uncertain whether detachments or the whole legion were in Egypt, and there is no further evidence of the legion's eventual fate.\n\nIts symbol was the bull, but the eagle was used as well.\n\nThe Legio V was one of the original twenty-eight legions raised by Octavian. There are two other fifth legions recorded: the V \"Gallica\" and the V \"Urbana\". It is possible that these both were early names for the V \"Macedonica\". The legion probably participated in the Battle of Actium (31 BC). It later moved to Macedonia, where it stayed from 30 BC to AD 6, gaining its cognomen, before moving to Oescus (Moesia).\n\nIn 62, some \"vexillationes\" of the Fifth fought under Lucius Caesennius Paetus in Armenia against the Parthian Empire. After the defeat of the Battle of Rhandeia, the whole V \"Macedonica\", together with III \"Gallica\", VI \"Ferrata\", and X \"Fretensis\" under the command of Gnaeus Domitius Corbulo, was sent to the east to fight in the victorious war against the Parthians.\n\nThe Fifth was probably still in the East when the Great Jewish Revolt in Iudaea Province began in 66. Nero gave the V \"Macedonica\", the X \"Fretensis\" and the XV \"Apollinaris\" to Titus Flavius Vespasianus to counter the revolt. In 67, in Galilee, the city of Sepphoris surrendered peacefully to the Roman army, and later the V \"Macedonica\" conquered Mount Gerizim, the chief sanctuary of the Samaritans. In the Year of the Four Emperors, 68, the legion stayed inactive in Emmaus, where several tombstones of soldiers of the V \"Macedonica\" remain. After the proclamation of Vespasian as Emperor and the end of the war under his son Titus, the V \"Macedonica\" left Iudaea and returned to Oescus (71). In 96, the later emperor Hadrian served the legion as \"tribunus militum\".\n\nIn 101, the legion moved to Dacia, to fight in Emperor Trajan's campaign against the king Decebalus. After the war ended in 106, the legion remained in Troesmis (modern Iglita), near the Danube Delta since 107. A centurion of the legion, Calventius Viator, rose to prominence and was eventually promoted to commander of the emperor's horse guards, the \"equites singulares Augusti\".\n\nBased on a Roman inscription discovered near Betar, Hadrian removed the V \"Macedonica\" from Dacia (present-day Romania) and sent it to Provincia Iudaea, or what is Judea, along with Legio XI Claudia, in order to put down an insurrection that broke out in the 16th year of his reign as Roman Emperor, while Tineius (Tynius) Rufus was governor of the province, and which later became known as the Jewish Revolt under Bar Kokhba.\nWhen Emperor Lucius Verus started his campaign against the Parthians (161–166), the legion moved to the east, but was later returned in Dacia Porolissensis, with a basecamp in Potaissa.\n\nThe northern frontier was a hot border of the Empire; when emperor Marcus Aurelius had to fight against the Marcomanni, the Iazyges, and the Quadi, the V \"Macedonica\" was involved in these fights.\n\nAt the beginning of the reign of Commodus, the V \"Macedonica\" and the XIII \"Gemina\" once again defeated the Iazyges, under the later usurpers Pescennius Niger and Clodius Albinus. The Fifth later supported Septimius Severus, in his fight for the purple.\n\nIn 185 or 187, the legion was awarded of the title \"Pia Constans\" (\"Faithful and reliable\") or \"Pia Fidelis\" (\"Faithful and loyal\"), after defeating a mercenary army in Dacia.\n\nWhile remaining at Potaissa for most of the 3rd century, V \"Macedonica\" fought several times, earning honors. Valerian gave the Fifth the name \"III Pia III Fidelis\"; his son, Gallienus gave the legion the title \"VII Pia VII Fidelis\", with the 4th, 5th and 6th titles awarded probably when the legion was used as a mobile cavalry unit against usurpers Ingenuus and Regalianus (260, Moesia). A vexillatio fought against Victorinus (Gaul, 269–271).\n\nThe legion returned to Oescus in 274, after Aurelian had retired from Dacia. It guarded the province in later centuries, becoming a comitatensis unit under the Magister Militum per Orientis. It probably became part of the Byzantine army.\n\nThe cavalry unit created by Gallienus was definitively detached by Diocletian, and become part of his comitatus. This unit was sent to Mesopotamia, where it successfully fought against the Sassanid Empire in 296, and then to Memphis, where it remained until becoming part of the Byzantine army.\n\nLegio V Macedonica is mentioned again in the Notitia Dignitatum, stationed in Dacia Ripensis, with detachments in the Oriental Field Army and in Egypt.\n\nLegio V Macedonica is again mentioned in both Antaeapolis and Heliopolis in inscriptions, which seem to have been detachments of the units in Memphis. The last inscription provides the date of 635 or 636, indicating that at least part of the Legion was in Egypt until just before the conquest of Egypt by the Arabs began in 637. This would make Legio V Macedonica the longest-lived Roman Legion known to history, spanning 680 years from 43 BC to 637 AD; the entire history of the Roman Empire in the Classical Era.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306745", "title": "Illinois Route 16", "text": "Illinois Route 16\n\nIllinois Route 16 (IL 16) is an east–west highway in central Illinois. Its western terminus is at the Joe Page Bridge over the Illinois River in Hardin, while its eastern terminus is at Paris at Illinois Route 1 and U.S. Route 150, with Illinois Route 133. This is a distance of .\n\nIllinois 16 is a major east–west state highway in Central Illinois. It runs east from Hardin to Hillsboro, and then turns northeast to Pana. Illinois 16 then continues east to Shelbyville and then to Paris. It overlaps Illinois 133 shortly before entering Paris.\n\nIn Paris, Illinois 16 and Illinois 133 terminate at the intersection of Jasper and Main/Central Streets. Illinois 16/133 run west from this intersection, while U.S. 150 runs north and east. Illinois 1 runs north and south.\n\nSBI Route 16 was established in 1918, running originally from Litchfield east to Paris. In 1962, a new 4-lane highway was built from Mattoon to Charleston; this became Illinois 16, while the old alignment became Illinois Route 316, which was dropped sometime in the 1970s.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306757", "title": "State Theatre (Traverse City, Michigan)", "text": "State Theatre (Traverse City, Michigan)\n\nThe State Theatre in Traverse City, Michigan, United States was donated to the Traverse City Film Festival in May 2007 as a gift by Rotary Charities of Traverse City. The theater underwent restoration and was reopened on November 17, 2007. The Motion Picture Association of America listed the State Theatre as the #1 movie theater in the world.\n\nThe State Theatre is located on East Front Street in downtown Traverse City and was founded and built by Julius H. Steinberg in 1916 and named the Lyric Theater. It was rebuilt in 1923 after a fire. It showed the first talking movie seen in Northern Michigan in 1929 when it was known as the Lyric Theatre. It was destroyed by fire again in 1948 and was rebuilt in 1949 in an art deco style and renamed the State Theatre. In 1978, the theater was twinned. It closed down in 1996, when the cinemas at the Grand Traverse Mall opened, and mall cinema owners GKC wanted business at those new theaters. GKC (now AMC) placed a deed restriction on subsequent owners of the State to prevent them from showing certain major Hollywood films. The theatre was revitalized before being used during the Traverse City Film Festival which began in July 2005. On November 17, 2007, the community celebrated the grand opening of the theater as a year-round art house.\n\nOn July 4, 1916, Julius Steinberg opened the Lyric Theatre to complement his Grand Opera House immediately west of the property on Front Street. The Lyric opened with the silent film \"The Iron Strain\" starring Dustin Farnum. Ticket prices were 15¢ for adults and 5¢ for children.\n\nOn January 17, 1923, the Lyric was destroyed in a fire and subsequently reopened on December 20, 1923, with the movie Hearts Aflame based on the story “Timber” by local author Harold Titus. The Lyric showed silent films and also hosted weddings and other events.\n\nIn September 1927, Butterfield Theatres took over management of Lyric from the Fitzpatrick-McElroy chain. Con Foster, who worked for Fitzpatrick-McElroy, was retained as local manager for Butterfield, a position he held with only a brief interruption until his death on April 3, 1940.\n\nAt midnight on March 29, 1929, the Lyric showed “Lucky Boy” starring George Jessel, the first “talkie” film run in Traverse City. At this special showing, a short clip of Herbert Hoover’s inauguration speech was also screened. The Lyric was the first theater in Northern Michigan to operate Vitaphone-Movietone equipment.\n\nThe Lyric was destroyed by fire once again on January 3, 1948. It was subsequently rebuilt and reopened on June 30, 1949 with a new name, the State Theatre. The first film shown at the State was It Happens Every Spring starring Ray Milland and Jean Peters. Ticket prices were 35¢ for adults and 12¢ for children.\n\nOn September 10, 1978, the State Theatre was closed for remodeling — the owners split the single theater into a twin with two small screens. The last movie shown in the single auditorium State Theatre was The End with Burt Reynolds. The theater was operated as a twin by GKC for several years before it closed again in 1996.\n\nThe State Theatre Group and Rotary Charities kept the theater safe from weather and time while plans were made for its future. In 1996, Barry Cole and the State Theatre Group purchased the theater from GKC and announced plans to convert the State into a performing arts complex. Then, in 2003, the State Theatre Group and Interlochen Center for the Arts announced a partnership to renovate the theater. The building was donated by Rotary Charities to the Traverse City Film Festival in May of 2007.\n\nFollowing a complete renovation, the Traverse City Film Festival officially reopened the State Theatre on Saturday, November 17, 2007, showing The Kite Runner.\n\nThe State Theatre offers a variety of weekly programming, from 25¢ Classic and kids matinees and sensory-friendly screenings, to Friday Night Flicks. The State also has an entire week of free screenings each year to coincide with the spring break of Traverse City Area Public Schools. \n\nThe twinkling stars in the State Theatre's atmospheric ceiling were mapped by Northwestern Michigan College Astronomy Professor Jerry Dobek to exactly match the stars and constellations of the August night sky of Northern Michigan. Over 2,000 fiber optic lights of varying sizes were installed through holes placed in the ceiling.\n"}
{"id": "2306769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306769", "title": "Henry III the White", "text": "Henry III the White\n\nHenry III the White () ( – 3 December 1266), a member of the Silesian Piasts, was Duke of Silesia at Wrocław from 1248 until his death, as co-ruler with his brother Władysław.\n\nHe was the third son of the Polish high duke Henry II the Pious, by his wife Princess Anna, daughter of the Přemyslid king Ottokar I of Bohemia. After the heroic death of his father at the Battle of Legnica on 9 April 1241, Henry III was still a minor and found himself under the care of the mother together with his youngest brothers Konrad and Władysław.\n\nIn 1242, the unexpected death of his brother Mieszko, placed him in the second place immediately after his oldest brother Bolesław II the Bald. Since then, he became in the head of the political opposition in the Lower Silesia against the government of Bolesław II.\n\nThe first appearance of Henry III as adult was found only in 1247; however, Bolesław II didn't have any intentions to share the power with him. He only changed his mind after the revolt of his brothers, who even captured him. Henry III was made the co-ruler with his older brother. The cooperation between the brothers was not very good and a year later, under pressure from Henry III, they decided to make a division of the districts Legnica–Głogów–Lubusz and Wrocław. Bolesław, as the older brother, had the opportunity to choose his district; he decided on Legnica, because gold had been discovered in the Kaczawa and Wierzbiak Rivers.\n\nBolesław II may have hoped that Henry III encountered serious difficulties with Wrocław (which he received in the division), so at the end the Duchy would come back to him. These expectations, however, never happened. Henry III was a strong ruler, and almost immediately he could impose his will over the powerful nobility. An additional point of the agreement was the obligation to offer hospitality to the younger brothers, Konrad and Władysław, who were destined to the espiritual career. Henry III's successful attempts to make Władysław entered in the Church had a total contrast with the relations between Bolesław and Konrad. Between them, were several disputes, in particular after Konrad claimed his own district and refused to become a priest. Open war between Henry III (who supported Konrad) and Bolesław II was only a matter of time.\n\nBolesław II, without funds, began to fear the prospect of an armed conflict with his brothers. In order to obtain the necessary resources to conduct the war, he decided to sell half of Lubusz to the Archbishop of Magdeburg. Unfortunately for him, Henry III also began to seek an ally in the rulers of Meissen. Defeated, Bolesław II was forced to give the district of Głogów to Konrad, who wished to enforce Henry III's intervention over Legnica in 1250. When Konrad decided on Bolesław II's kidnapping, even to the ruler of Wrocław, this was too much. All these treatments are not expected to take effect over the Duke of Wrocław, however, as Henry III in his relations with the brothers now sought to avoid open conflicts. Only in 1253, when the authority of Bolesław II collapsed completely, Henry III helped him to return to his Duchy.\n\nBetween the 1250s and 1260s Henry III became the most powerful Piast Duke of Lower Silesia. Consequently, it was not surprising that he was active in international politics. Henry III made alliances with his relatives, the Dukes of Opole and Głogów, and with the Kings of Bohemia, Wenceslaus I and Ottokar II (in the years 1251, 1252, 1259, 1261 Henry III was in the royal court in Prague). The cooperation with the Přemyslids, however, was not having the expected results. After Bohemia decided to interfere in the Babenberg succession of Austria with the support of the English, Henry III decided to reaffirm his alliance with them and repudiated his treaty with the rulers of Greater Poland, Przemysł I and Bolesław the Pious and the Árpád dynasty. They decided to punish Henry III, and during 1253–1254 the Duchy of Wrocław was besieged and plundered. Attempts to force concessions, either by blackmail (as was the case in 1256, when the sons of Henry II the Pious took the intervention of the papal Curia, but to regain some lost by Bolesław the Pious) or bribery (the exchange of Dańkow in 1262, promised by Henry III to Bolesław the Pious and Bolesław V the Chaste if they switched to the Bohemian side) did not yield a positive result.\n\nIn the internal politics, Henry III stood on guard to defend the prerogatives of the Piast dynasty, and the church actively supported him, because Henry III supported Bishop Thomas of Wrocław against Bolesław II in their disputes. This particular policy was not pleasing the Wrocław nobility; by 1266 several riots erupted among the nobles and knights, which contributed to the premature death of the Duke.\n\nAnother manifestation of Henry III's rule was the intensive German colonization of Lower Silesia, which significantly contributed to the growth and prosperity of his Duchy. Many cities were founded during this time, and in Ostrów Tumski in Wrocław a huge castle was built. Henry III also generously supported artists in his court. In the 13th century, German was the language of policy.\n\nThe dictatorial internal politics of Henry III led to a rebellion of the townspeople. The pretext emerged in the mid-year 1266 when they tried to forced a division of the Duchy of Wrocław between Henry III and his brother Archbishop Władysław of Salzburg. Władysław was not the head of the revolt and this was total surprise to him. His origins are certainly among the nobility.\n\nThe Polish historian Jerzy Mularczyk, had two possibles leaders of the revolt: first, the Bishop Thomas of Wrocław, who, taking advantage from Henry III's apparent weakness, tried to strengthen the position of the church; but after watching how the Duke concentrated all the power in his hands and stripped the nobility from his privileges, he feared that this also happened with the Church hierarchy, which certainly he did not permit.\n\nThe second possible leader was to be Bolesław II the Bald who hoped, in case of the eventual division of the Duchy of Wrocław and the expected death of Władysław without heirs -because he follow the spiritual career-, recovered at least 1/3 of Wrocław (the remaining 2/3 would be retained by Henry III, his other brother Konrad, and their descendants) for him or his successors. The rapprochement between Bishop Thomas and Bolesław II document was proved by a document, in which the Duke of Legnica called Bishop Thomas as his \"\"compater noster\"\", an unusual way to refer to somebody who supposed a close bond between them. However, didn't exist direct evidence for this theory. Of the revolt of the mid-year 1266 little is known, but it certainly failed, as the Duchy was not divided.\n\nHenry III wasn't time to celebrate his success, because only a few months later he suddenly died with only thirty-nine years old. Like is common in such situations, soon began the rumours about poisoning. This is reflected, in the \"Kronika polska\" written by the cisternian monk Engelbert around 1283–1285.\n\nThe source of the unnatural circumstances of his death suggests that some of the Silesian Dukes maybe conspired against him, and this suggestion is not unfounded. This was proved by the last months of Henry III's life, as he spent all this time fighting against the internal opposition of his rule. Certainly there was a large group of people affected by the Duke's punishment after the end of the revolt who decided to eliminate him from the scene.\n\nThe participation of the two possible leaders of the revolt of mid-1266, Bishop Thomas and Bolesław II the Bald, and seems unlikely. Their benefits from Henry III's death were small: Wrocław passed into the hands of Henry IV, a minor, under the regency of the Archbishop Władysław, which doesn't change the radical politics of his late brother. Henry III's dying request to extend the rule of Władysław's regency was made with the clear purpose to reduce the suspicion of guilt against him. Guilty for his death should therefore be found primarily among those dissatisfied with the rule of knights, or divide Wrocław.\n\nIn addition to the \"Kronika polska\", the mysterious death of Henry III was written even on his tombstone: \"Anno domini Millesimo, Nonas Decembris obiit veneno inclitus dux Wratislaviensis Henricus tertius, secundus filius secundi Henrici, a Thartaris\". From there, this information will be received by the Chronicle of the Silesian Dukes and the Genealogy and life of St. Hedwig to Jan Długosz.\n\nThe year of Henry III's death is absolutely certain, as is confirmed by all the documentary and oral sources of that time. However, there are disparities about the exact date. 3 December was confirmed as the best, although there are also sources date: 1 December, 5 December and 29 November. Henry III was buried in the Clare Church in Wrocław, which was still under construction.\n\nOn 2 June 1252, Henry III married firstly with Judith (b. 1222/25 – d. 4 December 1257/65?), daughter of Duke Konrad I of Masovia and widow of Mieszko II the Fat, Duke of Opole. They had two children:\n\nShortly before his death in 1266, Henry III married secondly with Helena (b. 1247 – d. 12 June 1309), daughter of Albert I, Duke of Saxony. They had no children.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306773", "title": "Svein Inge Valvik", "text": "Svein Inge Valvik\n\nSvein Inge Valvik (born 20 September 1956) is a retired Norwegian discus thrower. He represented SK Vidar, IF Kamp-Vestheim, IK Tjalve, Stabæk IF and Urædd.\n\nHe finished seventh in the discus final at the 1994 European Championships with a throw of 62.02 metres. He competed at the 1988 and 1996 Summer Olympics as well as the World Championships in 1987, 1991 and 1995 without reaching the final. He became Norwegian champion in discus throw in the years 1977, 1985 and 1990-1996.\n\nHis personal best throw was 68.00 metres, achieved in May 1982 in Juárez. This makes him the second best discus thrower in Norwegian history after Knut Hjeltnes.\n\nHe currently works as a teacher at Porsgrunn Videregående Skole.\n"}
{"id": "2306777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306777", "title": "John Russell Bartlett", "text": "John Russell Bartlett\n\nJohn Russell Bartlett (October 23, 1805 – May 28, 1886) was an American historian and linguist.\n\nBartlett was born in Providence, Rhode Island on October 23, 1805. In 1819 he was a student at the Lowville Academy in Lowville, New York, which he attended for two years. From 1807 to 1824 he lived in Kingston, Canada. From 1824 to 1836 he lived in Providence where he worked first as a clerk in his uncle's dry goods store (1824-1828), then as a bookkeeper and acting teller at the Bank of North America (1828-1831), and finally as the first cashier of the Globe Bank (1831-1836). \nIn 1831, he was one of the founders of the Providence Athenaeum, and was elected its first treasurer. That year he was also elected to membership in the Rhode Island Historical Society. The following year he was ordering books for the newly founded Providence Franklin Society, an early lyceum. Over the course of his life he became involved with a number of other organizations including the New England Historic Genealogical Society, and being elected a member of the American Antiquarian Society in 1856.\n\nBartlett moved to New York City in 1836, where he became a partner in the dry goods commission house of Jesup, Swift and Company. In 1840 he and his friend Charles Welford started the bookselling and publishing firm of Bartlett and Welford which was located in the Astor House hotel on the west side of Broadway between Vesey and Barclay streets. The firm, which was known for its large stock of foreign books, issued five catalogs between 1840 and 1848. While in New York, he became friends with a number of leading intellectuals, including the ethnologist and public servant Albert Gallatin. In 1842, he helped Gallatin found the American Ethnological Society. Bartlett later served as the Foreign Corresponding Secretary of the organization.\n\nBartlett is known in the field of lexicography for his \"Dictionary of Americanisms\" (1848), a pioneering work that, although supplanted by later dialect studies, is still of value to students of language and remains a valuable contribution to the subject. Later editions were published in 1859, 1860, and 1877. The first edition was translated into Dutch and published in 1854. The third edition of 1860 was translated into German and published in 1866. The work is referenced frequently by the Oxford English Dictionary in which it is given the abbreviation \"BARTLETT Dict. Amer.\"\n\nBartlett returned to Providence in 1850. From 1850–1853 he was the United States Boundary Commissioner responsible for surveying the boundary between the United States and Mexico. During this time he traveled with Henry Cheever Pratt throughout the Southwest. The autoethnonym of the Seri people of northwestern Mexico, Comcaac (which he wrote as \"komkak\"), was first recorded by Bartlett during a short visit to the area in early 1852. The word was included in the list of approximately 180 words that Bartlett archived in the Bureau of American Ethnology (now part of the National Anthropological Archives, housed at the Smithsonian).\n\nAfter being superseded by another commissioner upon the accession of President Franklin Pierce, he published \"A Personal Narrative of Explorations and Incidents in Texas, New Mexico, California, Sonora and Chihuahua\" (2 vols, 1854), which contains much valuable scientific and historical material concerning the area.\n\nFrom 1855 to 1872 Bartlett was Secretary of State of Rhode Island, and while serving in this capacity thoroughly re-arranged and classified the state records and prepared various bibliographies and compilations, relating chiefly to the history of the state. In the later years of his life he became the librarian for the John Carter Brown Library and collated an exhaustive catalog of the collection that was published in four volumes. He died in Providence on May 28, 1886.\n\nJohn Russell Bartlett was the son of Smith Bartlett and Nancy (Russell) Bartlett. He married Eliza Allen Rhodes of Pawtuxet, Rhode Island on May 15, 1831. They had seven children, including four daughters: Elizabeth Dorrance (1833-1840), Anna Russell (1835-1885), Leila (1846-1850), and Fanny Osgood (1850-1882). The last daughter was named for the poet, Frances Sargent Osgood, a friend of the family. Their three sons were Marine Corps Major Henry Anthony (1838-1901), George Francis (1840-1842), Captain, and later Rear Admiral on the Retired List, John R. Bartlett, USN, who served in the Civil War and Spanish–American War and who was also a noted oceanographer. Eliza died in 1853. On November 12, 1863, Bartlett married his second wife, Ellen Eddy, of Providence. \n\nJohn Russell Bartlett should not be confused with John Bartlett, compiler of \"Bartlett's Familiar Quotations\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306778", "title": "Occaneechi Band of the Saponi Nation", "text": "Occaneechi Band of the Saponi Nation\n\nThe Occaneechi Band of the Saponi Nation are descendants of the historic Saponi and other Siouan-speaking Indians who occupied the Piedmont of North Carolina and Virginia. The community is located primarily in Pleasant Grove Township, Alamance County, North Carolina. The tribe maintains an office in Mebane, where it carries out programs to benefit the roughly 1100 enrolled tribal members.\n\nLimited documentation exists linking members of the tribe to the historical Occaneechi and Saponi tribes. After warfare in the Southeast in the 18th century, most of the remaining Saponi tribe members went north in 1740 for protection with the Iroquois. After the American Revolution, they relocated with the Iroquois in Canada, as they had been allies of the British.\n\nAfter the war and migration, the Saponi disappeared from the historical record in the Southeast, in part because of racial discrimination that often included them in records only as free people of color, when the states and federal government had no category in censuses for American Indian. This was especially true in the late 19th and early 20th century, after white Democrats regained control of state legislatures across the South and imposed a binary system of racial segregation.\n\nRemnant Saponi who stayed in North Carolina were mostly acculturated. The community was traditionally located at the old \"Little Texas\" community of Pleasant Grove Township, where the tribe owns of land. In the twentieth century, the tribe worked to revive its cultural traditions. It is developing a tribal center facility. This will include a reconstructed 1700 Occaneechi village, museum, log farm from the 1880s, community meeting space, and classroom areas.\n\nThe Occaneechi-Saponi Band is recognized by the state of North Carolina.\n\nAlthough the North Carolina Commission of Indian Affairs (NCCIA) originally opposed granting recognition, an administrative law judge found that the Occaneechi-Saponi met the established guidelines and recommended that the commission grant tribal recognition to the petitioners. This recommendation became the final decision of the case when the NCCIA failed to issue a final decision within the time limits set forth in N.C. Gen. Stat. § 150B-44 (1991).\n\nThe NCCIA appealed the decision, but the Supreme Court of North Carolina denied review and dissolved a temporary stay in 2001. (see 354 N.C. 365, 556 S.E.2d 575 (2001). This meant that the recommendation of the administrative judge held.\n\nThe tribe holds an annual Pow-wow on the second weekend in June on its tribal property on Dailey Store Road, ten miles (16 km) north of Mebane.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306797", "title": "Jonathan Battishill", "text": "Jonathan Battishill\n\nJonathan Battishill (May 1738 – 10 December 1801) was an English composer, keyboard player, and concert tenor. He began his career as a composer writing theatre music but later devoted himself to working as an organist and composer for the Church of England. He is considered one of the outstanding 18th century English composers of church music and is best remembered today for his seven-part anthem \"Call to Remembrance\", which has long survived in the repertoires of cathedral choirs.\n\nBattishill was born in London. Beginning at the age of nine, he sang as a chorister at St. Paul's Cathedral initially under the direction of composer Charles King. After his voice broke he studied organ, music composition, and singing under William Savage, almoner and master of the choristers. He became a highly skilled organist and was particularly talented at extempore playing; a skill that soon attracted attention and led to his appointment as William Boyce's deputy at the Chapel Royal.\n\nDuring the mid-1750s he began appearing as a tenor soloist in London concerts. One of his earliest engagements was on 16 March 1756 in a concert of Handel's \"Alexander's Feast\" at the Great Room, Dean Street, where he was described as 'Mr Batichel'. That same year he became the conductor and harpsichordist at the Covent Garden Theatre. While there he composed incidental songs and choruses for plays and pantomime music for both Covent Garden and the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane. In 1758 he became a member of the Madrigal Society and in 1761 a member of the Royal Society of Musicians. He was also a of the Noblemen and Gentlemen's Catch Club from c1762, but lost his membership twice for not attending meetings. In 1771 his glee \"Come bind my hair, ye wood nymphs fair\" won the club's gold medal.\n\nIn 1764 Battishill was appointed organist of St Clement Eastcheap, which had recently united with the parish at St Martin Orgar. Three years later he became organist at Christ Church, Newgate Street as well and served at both St Clement and Christ Church until his death in 1801. During this time he periodically gave organ concerts and he particularly became known for his performances of Handel's keyboard works. He also would still occasionally perform in concerts as a singer. He possessed an exceptional memory which was displayed in one concert where he played and sang from memory several airs from Samuel Arnold's oratorio \"The Prodigal Son\" without the sheet music, and after not hearing the work for more than 20 years.\n\nWhile working at Covent Garden, Battishill met singing actress Elizabeth Davies who had originated the role of Margery in Thomas Arne's \"Love in a Village\". The two became romantically involved and on 19 December 1765 they married. However the marriage was unsuccessful, and Elizabeth had a publicly known affair with actor Anthony Webster, with whom she eventually moved to Ireland in 1776. Elizabeth died in Cork in October 1777. Battishill also had an affair with a woman who called herself Ann Battishill at the time of his death. They apparently lived together from about 1775 until the end of Battishill's life. Although Battishill was involved with another woman, his wife's desertion caused a deep depression from which he never recovered. He declined into alcoholism and his compositional output became minimal for the rest of his life. His alcoholism also resulted in his not being appointed organist of St Paul's on the death of John Jones in 1796.\n\nFrom 1777 on Battishill devoted himself mainly to his book collection. From the time he was a boy he was an avid reader, and throughout his life he had collected some 6000 to 7000 volumes in his personal library. He was mostly interested in theological works and the works of classical authors. In 1801 Battishill was buried in St Paul's near the grave of William Boyce in keeping with his own wishes.\n\nMost of Battishill's compositions date from the period 1760–1775, and reflect his diverse employments during this time. He began his career primarily as a composer of theatre music; writing mostly incidental music for plays. He composed the music for one pantomime, \"The Rites of Hecate\", which used a text by poet James Love. It premiered at Drury Lane on 26 December 1763. He also notably co-composed the music to the three-act opera \"Almena\" with Michael Arne, the son of Thomas Arne, which premiered in 1764 at Drury Lane. The opera was a theatrical failure, but critics of the day attributed its lack of success to dramatic faults on the part of the librettist Rolt, rather than to problems with the music. He also wrote several songs for London's pleasure gardens, of which \"Kate of Aberdeen\" is probably his best known.\n\nUpon taking his first organist post in 1764, Battishill composed chiefly church music, glees, catches, madrigals, and part-songs. He was particularly prolific in his output of Anglican chant (used for the psalms and canticles), hymns, and anthems. His anthems are considered his most exemplary work and are admired for employing rich blends in a multi-voiced arrangement. His anthems included \"O Lord, Look Down from Heaven\" and \"Call to Remembrance\", the latter of which was sung at his own funeral and is still performed in cathedrals today. Of his glees, \"I Loved Thee Beautiful and Kind\" is probably his best known work. His chants also remain in use.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306806", "title": "Southeast Iowa Regional Airport", "text": "Southeast Iowa Regional Airport\n\nSoutheast Iowa Regional Airport is a public airport located two miles southwest of Burlington, in Des Moines County, Iowa. It is owned by the Southeast Iowa Regional Airport Authority which includes representatives from the city of Burlington, the city of West Burlington, and Des Moines County. The airport is used for general aviation and sees one airline, a service subsidized by the federal government's Essential Air Service program at a cost of $1,917,566 (per year).\n\nThe National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems for 2017–2021 categorized it as a \"non-primary commercial service\" airport (between 2,500 and 10,000 enplanements per year).\n\nThe airport launched in 1929 when the Burlington City Council adopted a resolution to establish a Municipal Airport on an \"L\"-shaped sod field on Summer Street in Burlington, Iowa. Scheduled passenger service started in 1931 when the National Air Transport company added Burlington to its Chicago to Kansas City route. National's two ten-seat Ford Trimotors made two daily flights to Burlington. Braniff Airlines began two daily departures to Kansas City in 1944; in 1956 Braniff was replaced by Ozark, which pulled out of Burlington in 1982.\n\nIn 1943 a contract was signed with the U.S. Government to pave the runways and expand the site to . In 1947 a long-range airport development plan was created for building a Quonset hut administrative building, a U-shaped entrance road with parking, a gasoline service station for aircraft, a tourist court with recreational facilities, a maintenance building and hangars.\n\nThe airport's hours of operation were extended in 1959 when runway lights were installed, enabling flights to take off and land at night. In 1967 an aviation easement allowed the north-south runway to be widened and extended . The terminal building was remodeled in 1989.\n\nIn 1996 the name was changed from Burlington Regional Airport to Southeast Iowa Regional Airport. SIRA employs about 20 people. Passengers report that the laid back, inviting atmosphere at the airport reminds them of the TV show \"Wings\".\n\nThe airport covers 537 acres (217 ha) at an elevation of 698 feet (213 m). It has two runways: 18/36 is 6,701 by 150 feet (2,042 x 46 m) asphalt and 12/30 is 5,351 by 100 feet (1,631 x 30 m) concrete.\n\nFor the year ending July 30, 2019 the airport had 20,172 aircraft operations, an average of 55 per day: 74% general aviation, 16% air taxi, 9% airline and less than 1% military. In May 2020, there were 32 aircraft based at this airport: 28 single-engine, 2 multi-engine, 1 jet and 1 helicopter.\n\nScheduled passenger service:\n\nOn November 19, 1996 United Express Flight 5925 (operated by Great Lakes Airlines) departed Burlington bound for Quincy, IL. It later collided with a King Air near the runway 4/13 intersection at Quincy Regional Airport. Probable cause was likely that the King Air pilots did not monitor the Common Traffic Advisory Frequency due to Quincy having very low air traffic. 12 people perished in the accident; seven were employees of Dresser Industries in Burlington.\n\nOn May 30, 2013, winds from a severe thunderstorm damaged and destroyed several hangars. No one was injured.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306817", "title": "Desmond Carrington", "text": "Desmond Carrington\n\nDesmond Herbert Carrington (23 May 1926 – 1 February 2017) was a British actor and broadcaster whose career spanned over 70 years. He was best known for his weekly show on BBC Radio 2 which aired for 35 years, from 4 October 1981 until his final broadcast on 28 October 2016. He appeared in such films as \"Calamity the Cow\" (1967) and also acted on TV, where he became known for his role as Dr. Anderson in \"Emergency – Ward 10\". He was born in Bromley, Kent, England and lived in Perth, Scotland from 1995 until his death.\n\nCarrington's first professional stage appearance was in 1942, when he played Cockney schoolboy Roberts in a stage adaptation of James Hilton's novella \"Goodbye, Mr. Chips\" at the Theatre Royal, Nottingham, with Noel Johnson, as Mr. Chips – Johnson was the radio voice of Dick Barton. Carrington was conscripted into the army a year later, being commissioned into the Queen's Own Royal West Kent Regiment. At the end of World War II, he joined a British Forces Broadcasting Service (BFBS) radio station in Colombo, Ceylon (now Sri Lanka).\nHe returned to the UK a few years later and worked as a radio producer and acted on TV, where he became known for his role as Dr. Anderson in \"Emergency – Ward 10\". In 1949 he appeared as Ken in \"The People at No. 19\", a short public information film warning of the potentially tragic effects of venereal disease on family life. In 1957 he starred in two of the thirteen \"A Case For Dr. Morelle\" radio shows, with Cecil Parker as the lead, and later appeared as Uncle Jim in the Children's Film Foundation film \"Calamity the Cow\" (1967), which starred a young Phil Collins. With Spencer Hale, Carrington presented \"Movie Go Round\" on the BBC Light Programme (now Radio 2) on Sunday afternoons in the 1950s.\nCarrington's first show on BBC Radio 2 called \"All Time Greats\" ran from 4 October 1981 to 29 August 2004. It was broadcast for two hours every Sunday from 1pm. Although initially pre-recorded and broadcast from a BBC studio, his first live broadcast from his home in Perthshire was on 31 August 1997, which was the day that Diana, Princess of Wales, died and Carrington agreed that it would be inappropriate to use the pre-recorded show on that day. His second show on the network, called 'The Music Goes Round' ran from 31 August 2004 until his final broadcast on 28 October 2016, and originally aired in an hourly slot on a Tuesday evening, until it was moved to Friday evenings commencing on 9 April 2010. Both shows used a usual weekly theme of music, an occasional special 50s and musical editions. He introduced every show with the greeting \"Evening all, from home in Perthshire\" and then always ended his show with \"Bye just now!\" and \"...of course, thank you for having us [the \"us\" emphasised] at your place\" not forgetting a reference to his cat, \"Golden Paws\" Sam. Carrington used his personal collection of some 80,000 CDs, LPs and 78s. When he retired in 2016 the show was still attracting more than 800,000 listeners.\n\nHe was awarded the Gold Badge of Merit in 1989 by the British Academy of Songwriters, Composers and Authors, and he was voted British Radio Personality of the Year in 1991.\n\nOn his show on 30 September 2016, Carrington confirmed his intention to hang up his headphones after three decades on the airwaves and presented his last show on 28 October 2016. He had suffered cancer and Alzheimer's disease for several years and suffered heart failure for the second time on Christmas Day 2015. He opened his last show with the same song that had opened 'All Time Greats' in 1981, \"Up, Up and Away\" by the Johnny Mann Singers, and closed it with Mel Tormé's \"That's All\". He thanked listeners, without whom, he said \"the whole thing would have been quite pointless\". Carrington was praised by BBC Director-General Tony Hall who said:\n\nCarrington died on 1 February 2017 at the age of 90. His death was announced on BBC Radio 2's \"Jo Whiley Show\" and it was stated that he had been battling both cancer and Alzheimer's disease for several years. His partner and producer Dave Aylott said he had died peacefully. A pre-arranged tribute programme, \"Desmond Carrington – All Time Great\", was broadcast by BBC Radio 2 on the evening of his death.\n"}
{"id": "2306835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306835", "title": "Eldorado (EP)", "text": "Eldorado (EP)\n\nEldorado is an EP released only in Japan and Australia by Neil Young backed by The Restless, which consisted of Chad Cromwell and Rick Rosas.\n\nIt contains different mixes of three songs that subsequently appeared on Young's 1989 album \"Freedom\", \"Don't Cry,\" \"On Broadway,\" and \"Eldorado,\" and two tracks not available on any other recording, \"Cocaine Eyes\" and \"Heavy Love.\"\n\nThe \"Don't Cry\" track on \"Eldorado\" is longer than the later version published on \"Freedom\", for which some of the more free-form guitar work was edited out (at the insistence of co-producers Niko Bolas and Frank Sampedro).\n\nAll songs written by Neil Young, except \"On Broadway\" (Barry Mann, Cynthia Weil, Jerry Leiber, Mike Stoller).\n\n\nChad Cromwell and Rick Rosas also provided rhythm on 1989's \"Freedom\", 2005's \"Prairie Wind\", 2006's \"Living with War\" and 2009's \"Fork in the Road\" studio albums.\n"}
{"id": "2306836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306836", "title": "Kalkaska sand", "text": "Kalkaska sand\n\nKalkaska sand is the official soil of the U.S. state of Michigan.\n\nKalkaska sand was identified in 1927 and named after Kalkaska County located in the northern Lower Peninsula of Michigan. This soil is a multi-layer soil composed of humus, light sand, dark sand, and yellowish sand. It is classified as a spodosol. The distinctive sand layers can range from black to yellowish-brown and are commonly 2 to 4 feet (0.6 to 1.2 m) deep. Kalkaska sand is well-drained and effectively filters water. This makes it a valuable asset in forestry and certain types of agriculture. It is also largely responsible for the remarkable water quality of lakes and rivers located in areas of the state where these soils are abundant.\n\nKalkaska sand is one of more than 500 soils found in Michigan. Unique to the state, Kalkaska Sand covers nearly 1 million acres (4,000 km²) in 29 Upper and Lower Peninsula counties. It was designated as the state soil of Michigan in 1990.\n\nKalkaska soils are classified in USDA soil taxonomy as sandy, isotic, frigid Typic Haplorthods.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306838", "title": "POW Camp 115, Whitecross, St Columb Major", "text": "POW Camp 115, Whitecross, St Columb Major\n\nPOW Camp 115 was a prisoner of war camp during World War II in the locality of White Cross near St. Columb in Cornwall. It was built next to the railway track and covered an area of approximately . The site was laid out in ranks of white concrete huts and was dominated by a tall Water tower. Around a thousand prisoners were held there. Originally these were Italians, but later most of them were moved out and it held German PoWs. One of the more notable German prisoners was Herbert Klein, the future 1952 Olympic bronze medalist and four time world record holder in the breaststroke. During the time he was held prisoner, he trained in a mud pool next to the camp. Upon seeing posters plastered all around Cornwall regarding a swimming race, he petitioned his captors to enter. They finally allowed him to do so and he won his race by a substantial margin in the 1947 Cornwall Swimming Championships held in Fowey Harbour.\n\nThe Italians built their own elaborately decorated church with an ornate altar, but the latter was later destroyed by the German PoWs. Besides the church, the inmates were allowed to level ground and construct a football pitch. The prisoners were organised into five teams and ran their own league. According to an Italian PoW, they were well treated and given the same food as the local people.\n\nToday the site has been turned into a holiday park under the name 'Piran Meadows Resort & Spa'. A few of the huts remain, though the exteriors have been plastered and pebble dashed. The water tower still stands and is used as a workshop. The church was demolished some time ago to make way for a new building. The football field, indistinguishable from the rest of the camp, provides a level pitch for caravans.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306840", "title": "Daniel Rhodes", "text": "Daniel Rhodes\n\nDaniel Rhodes (May 8, 1911 – July 23, 1989) was an American ceramic artist, sculptor, author and educator. During his 25 years (1947–1973) on the faculty at the New York State College of Ceramics at Alfred University, in Alfred, New York (a division of the State University of New York), he built an international reputation as a potter, sculptor and authority on studio pottery.\n\nBorn and raised in Fort Dodge, Iowa, the son of Daniel J and Margaret Agnes (Brennan) Rhodes, he began his art career by enrolling in summer courses at the Art Institute of Chicago. He attended the University of Chicago for four years (1929–1933), earning a Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in art history. He worked with Iowa painter Grant Wood for two summers (1932 and 1933) at the Stone City Art Colony, and then also studied at the Art Students League of New York (1933–34), where his teacher was Regionalist painter John Steuart Curry.\n\nFrom 1935 to 1938, Rhodes lived in Fort Dodge, where he worked as a painter and muralist, participated in the Fort Dodge Art Guild, and lectured at the Blanden Art Gallery (now the Blanden Memorial Art Museum. While living in Iowa, he participated actively in the state's art circles, and frequently exhibited at the Iowa State Fair, where he won an unprecedented three consecutive annual sweepstakes awards for oil painting from 1938 to 1940, outdistancing a record held by Grant Wood.\n\nAfter additional study in 1940 at the Colorado Springs Fine Arts Center (where he began to work with clay), Rhodes entered the graduate program at New York State College of Ceramics at Alfred University, where, in 1942, he became the first person to graduate from that school's Master of Fine Arts program.\n\nRhodes received several mural commissions from the Section of Painting and Sculpture. The first, titled \"Storm Lake\" (1937), was created for the post office at Storm Lake, Iowa. Later, when a new post office was built, the mural was relocated to the public library.\nIn the same year, Rhodes and another Iowa painter named Howard C. Johnson were commissioned to create a large mural (110 feet wide by high), planned for installation in the Agricultural Building at the Iowa State Fairgrounds in Des Moines. Titled \"Where tillage begins, other arts follow\", the project was a commemoration of Iowa agriculture: planting, harvesting, production, and the meat packing industry. Unfortunately, it soon became the subject of a public derision. Opinionated passersby complained about factual inaccuracies in the mural, claimed that the figures of Iowans were too solemn, and objected to what they considered to be a style that was “too modern.” In 1946, Iowa State Fair Board Secretary Lloyd Cunningham ordered that the mural be taken down and that the dismantled pieces be used as scrap lumber. Apparently, all that now survives of the mural are a few photographs.\n\nAnother mural, at Marion, Iowa, is titled \"Communication by Mail\" (1939). Rhodes painted this mural in the time-honored technique of fresco-secco, directly onto the Post Office's lobby wall. It features the role of the railroad in transporting mail. The Post Office was decommissioned and sold to the city of Marion in 1968. The city used the building as the City Hall until 2005. The building sat empty for a year before being bought by a bank. In June 2008, Anton Rajer a professional fine art conservator from Green Bay, WI will begin work to move the mural to the Marion Heritage Center. The mural is estimated to weigh approximately 2,000–3,000 pounds, and will be removed from the building in one piece by a team of contractors.\n\nRhodes created a mural, \"Airmail\" (1941), for the U.S. Post Office in Piggott, Arkansas. On April 10, 2019, in Piggott, the US Postal Service released a series of postage stamps featuring post office murals, including \"Airmail.\" The Postal Service planned to produce 30 million of the stamps. \n\nHis success in completing these projects led to Rhodes being commissioned for New Deal art projects in other states, including post office murals at Clayton, Missouri (now at the Federal Building in Des Moines), and Glen Ellyn, Illinois; and a cafeteria mural in the main U.S. Navy building in Washington, D.C.\n\nIn 1939-40, Rhodes taught at the Art Students’ Workshop in Des Moines, and was also a guest lecturer at the Ottumwa Art Center and Iowa State University. In 1940, he married the former Lillyan Estelle Jacobs of Des Moines, a potter, sculptor and figurative painter whom he had met at Stone City. They raised two children, a daughter (Lorna) and a son (Aaron). Lillyan Rhodes died in 1986.\n\nAfter completing his MFA at Alfred University, the Rhodes remained in that area, where he worked as a designer for Glidden Pottery. In 1943, they moved to California, where he worked in San Jose as a researcher in high heat ceramics for the Henry J. Kaiser Corporation. Three years later, they moved to Menlo Park, California, where in 1947 they built a full-scale ceramic studio, and created thrown and cast ware for Gump's, the San Francisco department store. During the same period, Rhodes was briefly on the faculties at Stanford University (1946) and the San Francisco Art Institute (1946–47). In 1947, they returned to New York State, where Rhodes joined the art department faculty of his alma mater, the New York State College of Ceramics at Alfred University, where he taught from 1947 to 1973.\n\nWhile at Alfred University, Rhodes also taught summer sessions in ceramics at the University of Southern California, Los Angeles (1952–53); Black Mountain College, Asheville, North Carolina; and the Haystack Mountain School of Crafts, Deer Isle, Maine (1961). Rhodes later taught at the University of California, Santa Cruz (1977–80).\n\nIn the last phase of his life, Rhodes married Mary Beth Coulter. At the start of a two-month tour of college campuses, he was conducting a workshop at Sierra Nevada College when he was stricken by a heart attack and died in Reno, Nevada, in July 1989, aged 78.\n\nRhodes was the recipient of a Fulbright Fellowship and lived in Japan from 1962-63. The National Council on Education for the Ceramic Arts (NCECA) awarded him a medal of citation for his contributions to teaching in 1973. His accomplishments were recognized by major retrospectives at the Blanden Memorial Art Museum, Fort Dodge, Iowa (1973), and at Iowa State University, Ames (1986).\n\nRhodes' work is in permanent collections at the Victoria and Albert Museum (London); National Museum of Modern Art, Kyoto (Japan); Smithsonian Institution (Washington DC); Museum of Contemporary Crafts (New York); Des Moines Art Center (Des Moines, Iowa); Blanden Memorial Art Museum (Fort Dodge, Iowa); and Cornell University (Ithaca, New York).\n\nIn June 2011, a Facebook page, \"Daniel Rhodes Centennial\", was established to commemorate the 100th anniversary of his birth.\n\nAs an authority on ceramics techniques, Rhodes is well known as an author among studio potters and ceramic sculptors.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306843", "title": "WRSD", "text": "WRSD\n\nWRSD, known as \"Ridley School District Radio\", is a variety radio station which is broadcast in the Philadelphia area. The station is broadcast locally from a transmitter located in Folsom, PA, and covers a fairly large radius around the Folsom, PA area. WRSD features a variety of programming, which is done during the school year by students of Ridley High School.\n\nWRSD is a student-run radio station. Every year, students broadcast several shows a day. The Morning Show, \"Raider Time Radio\" runs from 7:30 to 8:300 AM. After school shows are broadcast from 2:40 to 3:15 and 3:15 to 4:00. The radio station broadcasts a variety of music throughout the course of the year, representing many different genres. Each show has two to three students. Students can earn credit to become a member of the National Honor Society by joining the radio station.\n\nRidley High School sporting events are also broadcast throughout the years. All Green Raider football games are broadcast, as well as select basketball games. Also, the annual rivalry game between Ridley High School and Interboro High School that is played on Thanksgiving Day is broadcast on the station.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306844", "title": "Paranormal romance", "text": "Paranormal romance\n\nParanormal romance is a subgenre of both romantic fiction and speculative fiction. Paranormal romance focuses on romantic love and includes elements beyond the range of scientific explanation, blending together themes from the speculative fiction genres of fantasy, science fiction, and horror. Paranormal romance may range from traditional category romances, such as those published by Harlequin Mills & Boon, with a paranormal setting to stories where the main emphasis is on a science fiction or fantasy-based plot with a romantic subplot included. Common hallmarks are romantic relationships between humans and vampires, shapeshifters, ghosts, and other entities of a fantastic or otherworldly nature.\n\nBeyond the more prevalent themes involving vampires, shapeshifters, ghosts, or time travel, paranormal romances can also include books featuring characters with psychic abilities, like telekinesis or telepathy. Paranormal romance has its roots in Gothic fiction. Its most recent revival has been spurred by turn of the 21st century technology, e.g. the internet and electronic publishing. Paranormal romances are one of the fastest growing trends in the romance genre.\n\nExamples of authors specializing in this genre include Dani Harper, Nalini Singh (author), Jessica Bird, Kresley Cole, Christine Feehan, Kelley Armstrong, and Stephenie Meyer, author of the \"Twilight\" series. According to 2013 statistics by the fantasy publisher Tor Books, among writers of urban fantasy or paranormal romance, 57% are women and 43% are men, whereas men outnumber women by about two to one in writing historical, epic or high fantasy.\n\nParanormal romance blends the real with the fantastic or science fictional. The fantastic elements may be woven into an alternate version of our own world in an urban fantasy involving vampires, demons, and/or werewolves, or they may be more \"normal\" manifestations of the paranormal—humans with psychic abilities, witches, or ghosts. Time travel, futuristic, and extraterrestrial romances also fall beneath the paranormal umbrella.\n\nThese novels often blend elements of other subgenres, including suspense and mystery, with their fantastic themes. A few paranormals are set solely in the past and are structured much like any historical romance novel. Others are set in the future, sometimes on different worlds. Still others have a time-travel element with either the hero or the heroine traveling into the past or the future. Between 2002 and 2004, the number of paranormal romances published in the United States doubled to 170 per year. A popular title in the genre can sell over 500,000 copies.\n\nAs in the fantasy subgenre known as urban fantasy, many paranormal romances rely on the blend of contemporary life with the existence of supernatural or magically-empowered beings, human or otherwise; sometimes the larger culture is aware of the magical in its midst, sometimes it is not. Some paranormal romances focus less on the specifics of their alternative worlds than do traditional science fiction or fantasy novels, keeping the attention strongly on the underlying romance. Others develop the alternate reality meticulously, combining well-planned magical systems and inhuman cultures with contemporary reality.\n\nThe first futuristic romance to be marketed by a mainstream romance publisher, Jayne Ann Krentz's \"Sweet Starfire\", was published in 1986 and was a \"classic road trip romance\" which just happened to be set in a separate galaxy. This genre has become much more popular since 2000. Krentz attributes the popularity of this subgenre to the fact that the novels \"are, at heart, classic historical romances that just happen to be set on other worlds\".\n\nTime-travel romances are a version of the classic \"fish out of water\" story. In most, the heroine is from the present day and travels into the past to meet the hero. In a smaller subset of these novels, the hero, who lives in the past, travels forward into his future to meet the heroine. A successful time-travel romance must have the characters react logically to their experience, and should investigate some of the differences, both physical and mental, between the world the character normally inhabits and the one in which they have landed. Some writers choose to end their novels with the protagonists trapped in different time periods and unable to be together—to the displeasure of many readers of the genre.\n\nThe P.E.A.R.L. (Paranormal Excellence Award for Romantic Literature) was a reader's choice award, presented annually to the top-voted paranormal romances by the ParaNormal Romance Groups naming the \"best of year\" in ten categories related to paranormal romance and romantic science fiction.\n\nAuthors such as Nora Roberts, Jayne Ann Krentz, Kresley Cole, Linnea Sinclair and Christine Feehan have written under this genre and won P.E.A.R.L.s.\n\nIt has not been active since 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306851", "title": "Collin Wilcox (actress)", "text": "Collin Wilcox (actress)\n\nCollin Wilcox (February 4, 1935 – October 14, 2009) was an American film, stage and television actress. Over her career, she was also credited as Collin Wilcox-Horne or Collin Wilcox-Paxton. Wilcox may be best known for her role in \"To Kill a Mockingbird\" (1962), in which she played Mayella Violet Ewell, whose false claim of being raped sparks the trial at the center of the film.\n\nWilcox was born in Cincinnati, Ohio, and moved with her family to Highlands, North Carolina, as a baby. Her interest in theater was sparked by her parents, Jack H. and Virginia Wilcox, who founded the Highlands Community Theater (now known as the Highlands Playhouse) in 1939.\n\nShe attended the University of Tennessee, where she studied drama.\n\nWilcox made her professional debut in Chicago as part of the improvisational group, The Compass Players, which included Mike Nichols, Elaine May, and Shelley Berman.\n\nPlaying opposite Richard Basehart, Kevin McCarthy, and William Hansen, Wilcox won the Clarence Derwent Award for her performance in \"The Day The Money Stopped\" by Maxwell Anderson and Brendan Gill, which lasted only three nights on Broadway in 1958. She starred in the 1961 play \"Look, We've Come Through\" with Burt Reynolds on Broadway. She replaced another actress in the 1963 revival of Eugene O'Neill's \"Strange Interlude\" and then went on to do the 1965 play \"The Family Way\", both on Broadway.\n\nA life member of The Actors Studio, Wilcox is perhaps best known for her role in the 1962 film \"To Kill a Mockingbird\", in which she played Mayella Violet Ewell, who falsely accuses Tom Robinson (Brock Peters) of raping her. Following that cinematic acting success, she performed two very memorable roles for television in 1964: \"The Twilight Zone\" episode \"Number 12 Looks Just Like You\" and \"The Alfred Hitchcock Hour\" episode \"The Jar\", based on the Ray Bradbury short story.\n\nShe appeared as Bess Frye in a 1972 episode of \"Gunsmoke\" titled \"Jubilee\". In 1974, she co-starred with Peter Falk and Robert Conrad in the \"Columbo\" episode \"An Exercise in Fatality\" as Ruth Stafford. She remained active performing both on television and in films. Her final role was that of Mrs. Kline in the movie \"A Touch of Fate\", which was released in 2003, six years before her death.\n\nShe recalled receiving \"unfriendly looks\" when she showed up at an NAACP conference in Monterey, California, where an official had to remind participants: \"Collin is here at this conference because she believes in the cause. She is not the character in the film.\" This was due to the fact that, in the film \"To Kill a Mockingbird\", she played a white woman who falsely accused Tom Robinson, a black man, of raping her.\n\nOn October 14, 2009, Wilcox died from brain cancer, aged 74, at her home in Highlands, North Carolina. She was cremated and her ashes returned to her family.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306852", "title": "Registration pin", "text": "Registration pin\n\nA registration pin is a device intended to hold a piece of film, paper or other material in place during photographic exposure, copying or drawing.\n\nRegistration pins are used in offset printing and cartography, in order to accurately position the different films or plates for multi-color work.\n\nIn traditional, hand-drawn animation, the registration pins are often called pegs, and are attached to a peg bar.\n\nAlso, in traditional, hand-taped printed circuit board artwork, usually at two or four times actual size. Sometimes on a single transparent base, usually mylar, with Layer 1 being on the front and Layer 2 being on the back, in red and green, respectively, for later \"separation\" into component parts using a process camera.\n\nIn motion picture cameras, the pin(s) hold the film immovable during exposure.\n\nIn certain \"professional\" motion picture cameras and \"step\" printers, there may be \"two\" registration pins: one is called the \"big pin\" and it is employed for primary (axial and lateral) registration while the other one is called the \"little pin\" and it is employed for secondary (axial) registration. With the \"big pin\"/\"little pin\" concept, it is not required to employ side pressure or other means to guide the film through the intermittent movement with \"absolute\" precision as the \"big pin\" is fully fitting in the perforation (the \"little pin\" \"is not\" fully fitting in width, but \"is\" fully fitting in height; this difference accommodates slight changes in the dimensions of the film media due to changes in relative humidity and possibly other factors such as media age).\n\nThis system is employed primarily in high-end \"professional\" cameras in the West. In the East (the former Soviet Union and its former Satellites), a single registration pin, corresponding to the \"big pin\", is employed along with side pressure.\n\nAdditionally, Western \"professional\" cameras \"always\" employ Bell and Howell (BH) pins whereas Eastern \"professional\" cameras \"generally\" employ Kodak Standard (KS) pins, which standard was originally recommended by the Western standards organizations, but was soundly rejected by Western studios and camera equipment manufacturers. Western \"professional\" cameras provided to the East during World War II's Lend-Lease program were \"generally\" converted to KS pins by the receiving country.\n\nTo further improve upon registration accuracy, the perforations which are utilized for registration are \"never\" used for film advancement (i.e., for pull-down).\n\nThe above description applies to \"professional\" applications, which is generally taken to mean film gauges larger than 16mm (i.e., 35mm and 65/70mm).\n\nFor 16mm, only, a modified strategy is \"generally\" employed, at least for \"step\" printers which utilize 1R (single-row) perforations.\n\nThe lower pin, the \"big pin\", will be fully fitting in the axial \"and\" lateral dimensions but the upper pin, the \"little pin\", will be fully fitting in the lateral dimension \"only\", for the same reason that the \"professional's\" \"little pin\" is fully fitting in the axial dimension \"only\".\n\nThis, then, also accomplishes \"absolute\" precision, but within the context of \"sub-professional\" film gauges.\n\nFor practical reasons, the 1R 16mm \"little pin\" is usually spaced two perforations above the 16mm \"big pin\".\n\nAgain for 16mm, only, certain cameras and \"step\" printers which utilize 2R (two-row) perforations may employ the same strategy as for \"professional\" applications, but 2R is seldom utilized except for certain high-speed photography and almost never for duplication or prints.\n"}
{"id": "2306856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306856", "title": "Zen of Screaming", "text": "Zen of Screaming\n\nThe Zen of Screaming is an instructional DVD by Melissa Cross, a vocal coach whose speciality is \"unclean\" vocal techniques such as growled or screamed found in extreme metal and other styles of music. In contrast, \"clean\" vocals are relatively more conventional singing techniques. \n\nThe DVD is intended to help vocalists learn how to strengthen their bodies so they can perform vocals without damaging their vocal cords. On the DVD many guest musicians, such as Randy Blythe of Lamb of God, appear to demonstrate the exercises.\n\nOther pupils of Melissa Cross have been the lead vocalists for famous heavy metal bands such as Slipknot, Killswitch Engage, All That Remains, Shadows Fall, Underoath, Arch Enemy, Madball, God Forbid, and Andrew W.K.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306860", "title": "Mosque City of Bagerhat", "text": "Mosque City of Bagerhat\n\nThe Mosque City of Bagerhat (; historically known as Khalifatabad) is a UNESCO World Heritage Site in Bagerhat District, Bangladesh. It contains several mosques built during the Bengal Sultanate in the 15th-century, of which the Sixty Dome Mosque is the largest. Other mosques include the Singair Mosque, the Nine Dome Mosque, the Tomb of Khan Jahan, the Bibi Begni Mosque and the Ronvijoypur Mosque. The mosques were built during the governorship of Ulugh Khan Jahan, a Turkic military officer appointed as governor in the Sundarbans by Sultan Mahmud Shah of Bengal. \n\nThe site was a \"mint town\" of the Bengal Sultanate. Bagerhat has one of the largest concentrations of sultanate-era mosques in Bangladesh. The historic city, listed by \"Forbes\" as one of the 15 lost cities of the world, has more than 50 structures built in the Bengal Sultanate style of Indo-Islamic architecture. The mosques of Bagerhat display the 'Khan Jahan Style' of the Bengal Sultanate variant. These were uncovered after removing the vegetation that had obscured them from view for many centuries. The site has been recognised by UNESCO in 1983 under criteria (iv), \"as an outstanding example of an architectural ensemble which illustrates a significant stage in human history\", of which the Sixty Dome Mosque with actually 60 pillars and 77 domes, is the most well known. The mosques feature terracotta artwork and arabesque.\n\nThe mosque city is situated in southern Bengal near the vast estuary of the Bengal delta. It is located from the coast of the Bay of Bengal. The city is spread over an area of , on the banks of the moribund branch of the Bhairab River along a stretch (in an east–west direction and about width in north–south direction), which was part of the Sundarbans mangrove forests. Today all monuments are set in the unspoilt environment of what is now farmlands, surrounded by palm trees.\n\nThe Bengal Sultanate appointed Ulugh Khan Jahan as its governor in the Sundarbans in southern Bengal during the 15th-century. Ulugh Khan Jahan was a person of Turkic-origin. The title of \"Ulugh\" was common to rulers from the Turco-Persian tradition. The Bengal Sultanate attracted many immigrants from the Middle East and Central Asia, who brought with them ideas of Islamic architecture. Sufism was employed by Muslim missionaries to attract the local population. The high concentration of mosques suggests the rapidity with which the local population converted to Islam. \n\nAccording to sultanate taka, it was built in the 15th century and was known by the name of Khalifatabad during the 16th century.\n\nUlugh Khan Jahan administered an area covering parts of present-day Khulna Division and Barisal Division in Bangladesh. Inscriptions in Bagerhat indicate that the mosque was built during the reign of Sultan Mahmud Shah between 1450 and 1459. Interestingly, Mahmud Shah was also responsible for transferring Bengal's capital from Pandua to Gauda. The reign of Mahmud Shah was marked by significant architectural development. In south Bengal, the mosque city of Bagerhat displays the simplistic 'Khan Jahan Style' of Bengali Islamic architecture. Ulugh Khan Jahan was responsible for establishing a planned township with roads, bridges, and water supply tanks (of which the \"Ghoradighi\" and \"Dargadighi\" still survive), cisterns, and several mosques and tombs. Ulugh Khan Jahan was a Sufi.\n\nIn 1895, an extensive survey of the area was conducted by the Archaeological Survey of British India, and restoration was put into effect in 1903–04 on the Sixty Dome Mosque. In 1907-8 part of the roof and 28 domes were restored. In 1982–83, UNESCO drew up a master plan for the Bagerhat area and it became a World Heritage Site in 1985.\n\nThe planning of the city is distinctly dominated by Islamic architecture style; in particular, the embellishments are a combination of various styles, including Bengali, Persian and Arab. The city covered 360 mosques (most of them of identical designs), many public buildings, mausoleums, bridges, network of roads and water reservoirs. The material used in building construction was baked bricks, which over the centuries deteriorated under saline conditions of the soil and the atmosphere.\n\nThe layout, revealed after the recent removal of the vegetative growth around the historic city, indicates that the city developed in two distinct zones; the main zone is the Mosque of Shait Gumbaz and its precincts and the other zone to its east is the one encircling the Mausoleum of Khan Jahan. The two zones are separated by a distance of .\n\nThe minarets embellish the front corners of the mosques. They stand at double the height of the facade. The towers at the rear corners are also similarly fashioned. The minarets are double storied and round in shape; projecting cornices surround the shafts up to the middle height of the minarets and a window fitted at this mid height provides ventilation and light. A spiral staircase in this \"minar\" leads to the top. Artificial tusks of elephants decorate the exterior of the minarets.\n\nThe following includes a partial list of mosques, tombs or mausoleums, and other monuments which have been restored from among the large number of ruins in the city.\n\nThe Sixty Dome Mosque, on the eastern bank of a water tank or pond (the \"takur dighi\"), is one of the oldest mosques in the country and is described as a \"historic mosque representing the Golden Era of Muslim Bengal\". It is laid is over an area of by . The mosque is unique in that it has 60 pillars that support 77 exquisitely curved \"low squat domes\" that have worn away over time; it has seven central domes that are four-sided and built in Bengali style. It was established in 1440 by Khan Jahan Ali.\n\nIt was used for prayers, as an assembly hall and madrasa (an Islamic school). Seventy seven domes are over the roof and four smaller ones at the four corners are towers (the towers were used to call the faithfuls to attend prayers). The large prayer hall has 11 arched doorways on the east and 7 each on the north and south which provide ventilation and light to the hall. There are 7 longitudinal aisles and 11 deep bays in the midst of slim columns made of stone. These columns support the curving arches that are overlaid by the domes. The west wall in the interior has eleven \"mihrabs\" that are decorated with stonework and terracotta and the flooring is brickwork. The walls and the \"mihrabs\" were affected by sulphates. Most of the damage has been rectified. The arches are thick with a slight taper over the hollow and round walls. The mosque also functioned as the court of Khan Jahan Ali. It now attracts a large number of tourists and visitors. The mosque is decorated mostly with terracotta and bricks.\n\nThe Nine Dome Mosque is located to the west of the \"takur dighi\" tank and built in the 15th century. It is located near Khan Jahan Ali's tomb. Its western wall conventionally faces west towards Mecca, where the \"mihrab\" is inset; terracotta floral scrolls and flower motifs are the decorations seen around the \"mihrab\". Circular towers are provided in the four corners. The walls of the mosque support a large central dome which has eight smaller domes around it. This structure was also affected by sulphates. It has been since substantially restored. Close to this mosque are the Zinda Pir Mosque and mazar (tomb), which are in ruins.\n\nThe Singair Mosque is across the road from the Sixty Dome Mosque on its southeastern side. It is a square shaped single dome mosque. In what is typical to the Khan Jahan Style, the dome is supported on thick walls and topped with a cambered cornice. The Bigi Begni Mosque and the Chuna Khola Mosque are also single domed but much larger in size.\n\nThe Ronvijoypur Mosque has the largest dome in Bangladesh. It is of width supported by arches and pendentives. The corners have tapering circular turrets while the external cornice has a slight curve. The mosque's interior is plain. However, the main mihrabs have decorations of floral patterns. It is located on the opposite side of the Khan Jahan Tomb on the Khulna-Bagerhat Road. It was built in the Khan Jahan style of architecture. It has been renovated many times in the past during the 1960s and 70s. However, it needs further repair work to prevent dampness inside the tomb, and also to the brickwork on the exterior surfaces.\n\nThe Chuna Khola Mosque, built in the 15th century, is located in the midst of rice fields in the village of Chuna Khola (named after the limestone extraction that was in vogue here in the past). It has been identified as representing a transition from the Khan Jahan style monuments. It is a square building with thick walls. It has three entrances on the east and one each on the northern and southern sides also. It has three \"mihrabs\" with the central \"mihrab\" being the largest in size and projecting outwards. It has a hemispherical dome with frontal arches. There are also squinches and half domes. It is distinctly different from the Khan Jahan style mosque in its exterior decorations, particularly the east façade, which depicts four rectangular panels bordered by foliated scrolls with merlons having plant motifs. It has four turrets with curved cornices. The brick walls, in particular, were damaged due to sulphate effect. It was renovated in the 1980s according to guidelines set by UNESCO.\n\nThe Khan Jahan Mausoleum or tomb is located on the northern bank of a water tank (a pond infested with crocodiles) called \"thakur dighi\" in Bengali language. The pond is square in shape and the excavated material from the tank was used to make an embankment over which the Mausoleum has been built. The pond is approached through a flight of broad and steep steps built from the embankment. It has a single domes structure built over a plan of square. The building was made of brick walls over five layers of dressed stone which forms the basement. From recorded sources of 1866, it is also mentioned that the flooring had been inlaid with hexagonal encaustic tiles of different designs and colours (mostly blue, white and yellow). However, in its present condition such type of tiles are seen only on a few steps on the Mausoleum itself. The tomb has black stones have been used in making the tomb and it is made of three steps. Verses from the Koran are inscribed in Arabic and Persian. There are inscriptions on the walls of the crypt which are inferred as providing historical information about Ulugh Khan Jahan's life. After retirement, Khan Jahan spent his retired life here and after his death on 25 October 1459, his tomb was preserved here. It is now pilgrimage site where people pay homage to the man who dedicated his lifetime to building the city and its monuments. The Pir Ali Tomb (of Pir Ali, a close associate of Khan Jahan) is an annexe building to this mausoleum and is of identical layout. A mosque called the Dargha Mosque is attached to the mausoleum.\n\nA small museum has been established by the Directorate of Archaeology of Bangladesh, in collaboration with UNESCO, in front of the Shait Gumbaz Mosque, where antiquaries collected from the area of the historical site are displayed providing knowledge on the history of Bagerhat. It has three exhibit galleries of antiquaries related to the \"Historic Mosque City of Bagerhat\", which include inscriptions, potteries, terracotta plaques and ornamental bricks. Pictures of important historic buildings of Bangladesh are also part of the exhibits here.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306862", "title": "Science Fiction Research Association", "text": "Science Fiction Research Association\n\nThe Science Fiction Research Association (SFRA), founded in 1970, is the oldest, non-profit professional organization committed to encouraging, facilitating, and rewarding the study of science fiction and fantasy literature, film, and other media. The organization’s international membership includes academically affiliated scholars, librarians, and archivists, as well as authors, editors, publishers, and readers. In addition to its facilitating the exchange of ideas within a network of science fiction and fantasy experts, SFRA holds an annual conference for the critical discussion of science fiction and fantasy where it confers a number of awards, and it produces the quarterly publication, \"SFRA Review\", which features reviews, review essays, articles, interviews, and professional announcements.\n\nThe SFRA hosts an annual scholarly conference, which meets in a different location each year. Meetings have been held predominately in the United States in such places as New York, New York (1970), Lawrence, Kansas (1982, 2008), Las Vegas, Nevada (2005), and Atlanta, Georgia (2009). However, its meetings have been held elsewhere when possible including the cities of St. Anne de Bellevue, Province of Quebec (1992), New Lanark, Scotland (2002), Guelph, Ontario (2003), Lublin, Poland (2011), and Detroit, Michigan (2012).\n\nThe 2012 SFRA Conference's theme was \"Urban Apocalypse, Urban Renaissance:\nScience Fiction and Fantasy Landscapes.\" Its Guest of Honor was Eric Rabkin, Arthur F. Thurnau Professor of English Language and Literature at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, and the guest speakers included Professor Steven Shaviro of Wayne State University and writers Saladin Ahmed, Sarah Zettel (aka C.L. Anderson), and Minister Faust.\n\nThe SFRA presents the following awards at its annual conference:\n\n\nSFRA members receive the association’s quarterly publication \"SFRA Review\" (ISSN 1068-395X). The contents include extensive book reviews of both nonfiction and fiction, review articles, listings of new and forthcoming books, letters, SFRA internal affairs, calls for papers, works in progress, and an annual index. Individual issues are not for sale; however, starting with issue #256 (Jan-Feb 2002) all issues are published to SFRA's website.\n\nSFRA book publications include the 1988 anthology, \"Science Fiction: The Science Fiction Research Association Anthology,\" edited by Patricia S. Warrick, Charles G. Waugh, and Martin H. Greenberg, the 1996 collection, \"Visions of Wonder: The Science Fiction Research Association Reading Anthology,\" edited by David G. Hartwell and Milton T. Wolf, the 1999 work, \"\" by Hal W. Hall and Daryl F. Mallett with substantial contributions by Fiona Kelleghan, and the 2010 anthology, \"Practicing Science Fiction: Critical Essays on Writing, Reading and Teaching the Genre,\" edited by Karen Hellekson, Craig B. Jacobsen, Patrick B. Sharp, and Lisa Yaszek.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306865", "title": "Lara Jill Miller", "text": "Lara Jill Miller\n\nLara Jill Miller (born April 20, 1967) is an American actress and voice actress, known for her role as Samantha \"Sam\" Kanisky on the 1980s sitcom \"Gimme a Break!\" and as Kathy on \"The Amanda Show\".\n\nAs a voice actress, she had roles in English dubs of Japanese anime such as Kari Kamiya in \"Digimon Adventure\" and Koko in \"Zatch Bell!\". In cartoons, she voices the title characters in \"Clifford's Puppy Days\", \"The Life and Times of Juniper Lee\" and \"Henry Hugglemonster\" and also voices Izzie in \"SciGirls\", Widget in \"Wow! Wow! Wubbzy!\", Allie in \"Curious George\", Lambie in \"Doc McStuffins\", Fink in \"OK K.O.! Let's Be Heroes\", Lisa Loud in \"The Loud House\" and Haru in \"BEASTARS\".\n\nMiller was born in Allentown, Pennsylvania. She first started acting in a dinner theater, and she founded the theater in an newspaper ad, and she didn't know what the word audition meant. She asked her Dad what that meant and he told her. She graduated from Allentown's William Allen High School. Her mother was a homemaker and her father a pajama factory owner.\n\nMiller's professional acting career began on Broadway, where she appeared as Amaryllis in a revival of \"The Music Man\" with Dick Van Dyke.\n\nIn 1981, after her appearance on Broadway, she joined the cast of \"Gimme a Break!\", playing the role of the tomboyish Samantha \"Sam\" Kanisky, opposite Nell Carter. When the series ended its six-year run on NBC in 1987, Miller returned east, to New York University, where she also played on the university's women's varsity tennis team and continued to perform on stages around the country. Four years later, she graduated from Fordham University School of Law, leaving graduation early to portray Peter Pan in a production at the Pennsylvania Youth Theater. She subsequently was admitted to practice law in New Jersey, New York, and her native Pennsylvania.\n\nIn 1999, Miller returned to Hollywood, California and resumed her on-camera acting career with recurring roles on the Nickelodeon series \"The Amanda Show\" and \"All That\", as well as \"General Hospital.\" She also began working in animated series, lending her voice to characters such as Kari in \"Digimon\" (both the series and the feature film), Koko in \"Zatch Bell!\", Alejo in Astro Boy, one of the Tachikoma mini-tanks in \"\", and Scheris Adjani in \"s-CRY-ed.\" Miller also provided the singing voice of Dorothy Gale in the National Public Radio adaptation of L. Frank Baum's \"The Wonderful Wizard of Oz\", and the voices of the title characters on Cartoon Network's \"The Life and Times of Juniper Lee\", Disney Junior's \"Henry Hugglemonster\", and the PBS Kids prequel to \"Clifford the Big Red Dog, Clifford's Puppy Days\".\n\nMiller's roles include the recurring roles of Pookie, Wiki, and Tini on Disney Channel's \"Higglytown Heroes\", Haruka of \"Daigunder\", and the Nick Jr. series \"Wow! Wow! Wubbzy!\" as Widget, the show's problem-solving pink creature resembling a rabbit, both PBS series \"Curious George\" as Allie and \"SciGirls\" as Izzie, and regular guest-starring roles on several other animated series.\n\nAs of 2017, she is doing voice work on the Disney Channel/Disney Junior television series \"Doc McStuffins\" as the voice of Lambie, as well as the Nickelodeon television series \"The Loud House\" in which she voices Lisa Loud, Becky, Margo Roberts (until \"Hero Today, Gone Tomorrow\" where the role was recast to Brec Bassinger), and Nurse Patti.\n\nIn 2020, she voice acted for 2 cartoons, the episode Tween Titans in DC Super Hero Girls and the English dub for Beastars as Haru.\n\nMiller appeared on Talkin Toons with Rob Paulsen in 2013, Ken Reid's \"TV Guidance Counselor\" podcast on March 4, 2016 and Nickelodeon Animation Podcast on September 22, 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306883", "title": "Ferry Farm", "text": "Ferry Farm\n\nFerry Farm (also known as the George Washington Boyhood Home Site or the Ferry Farm Site) is the name of the farm and home at which George Washington spent much of his childhood. The site is located in Stafford County, Virginia, along the northern bank of the Rappahannock River, across from the city of Fredericksburg. In July 2008, archaeologists announced that they had found remains of the boyhood home, which had suffered a fire during 1740, including artifacts such as pieces of a cream-colored tea set probably belonging to George's mother, Mary Ball Washington. In 2015, the George Washington Foundation began constructing a replica of Washington's boyhood home on the site of the original building. The replica house was completed in 2018 and is open to the public. \n\nThe farm was named after the Washington family had left the property. Its namesake was a free ferry that crossed the Rappahannock River on Washington land—the family did not own or operate it. It is unclear what the farm was called during the Washington occupancy. Sometime in the late 19th century the farm became known as Pine Grove, as well as The Ferry Farm. The farm rose to national prominence during the Washington Birth Bicentennial of 1932—during the years surrounding this celebration some authors cited both the names Ferry Farm and Pine Grove.\n\nOver thousands of years, American Indians periodically inhabited the lands that today make up Ferry Farm. Archaeological finds include a spear point made over 10,000 years ago by a big-game hunter, numerous tools associated with bands of hunter/gatherers, and pottery created by native farmers.\nThe first European claim on the property was a land patent granted to John Catlett in 1666. By 1710, the tract had been subdivided into several small farms, with Maurice Clark in ownership of what would become Ferry Farm. In 1727, the property was sold to William Strother, a lawyer, and a Burgess for the newly formed King George County.\n\nIn 1738, George Washington's father, Augustine, acquired the plantation from the Strother estate. Augustine Washington held political office, owned several thriving plantations, and was a managing partner of Accokeek Iron Furnace located six miles north of Ferry Farm on a tributary of the Potomac River. He moved to Ferry Farm in the fall of 1738 with his second wife, Mary Ball Washington, and their five young children.\n\nGeorge Washington's biographers could claim three locations significant as his homesteads through his lifetime. Pope's Creek, Virginia from 1732-1735 was his birthplace. Little Hunting Creek, later to be renamed Mount Vernon by elder brother Lawrence after his 1743 inheritance of the property was briefly the family home to Augustine and Mary Washington and their brood of five including his third son George, from 1735-1738. The Washington-era farm, then referred to by others as the Washington Farm and by the Washingtons as the Home Farm, had a 1½-story central-passage house, two rooms deep, perched atop a bluff on the Rappahannock River. It was built by Augustine Washington. Based on excavations at the site in 2008, the structure was approximately wide by deep. It was the second of five houses at the site. George was six when the family moved to the farm in 1738. He inherited the farm and lived in the house until his early 20s. However, George Washington was not sentimental about the land. Washington saw the land as a \"crowded, busy, trouble-filled place of limited options.\" Washington's father Augustine had left behind a small set of surveying instruments after he died. At the age of 16 Washington used his father's surveying tools to survey for prominent Virginia grandees and instantly became hooked; George Washington had found his first true calling. Surveying linked George to his brother Lawrence and the Fairfaxes. At age 18 Washington was granted a 453-acre tract in western Frederick County by Lord Fairfax. Washington surveyed the 453 acres of land and also purchased an adjoining tract. Washington soon had acquired close to two thousand acres in western lands. Washington had acquired more land through his own hard work than Ferry Farm would be worth in the three years Washington had to wait to legally claim Ferry Farm. He often stayed with his half-brother Lawrence at Mount Vernon. Washington's mother lived in the house until 1772, when she moved to Fredericksburg, and the farm was sold to a friend Hugh Mercer. The Washington-era house was in ruinous condition by 1833.\n\nA new farmhouse was built at the site in 1850 for the use of an overseer. It was the site of skirmishing during the American Civil War in 1862. Throughout the Civil War, the area surrounding Ferry Farm was prone to encounters between Confederate and Union armies due to a concentration of ferry and train traffic. Because of these encounters, many significant battles occurred in the city surrounding Ferry Farm, although no battles occurred on the actual site. \nFerry Farm was periodically occupied by Union Soldiers as a war campground, which military personnel used to prepare for battle. \nIn 1862, amid the Civil War, President Abraham Lincoln, familiar with Weems' Washington myths, toured Ferry Farm. While occupying the Farm, many soldiers familiar with the Cherry Tree Myth, carved trinkets, such as rings, from a tree they believed to be the myth. Much of the farm was destroyed during this time. Another new farmhouse was built during the 1870s, along with many outbuildings. A surviving \"surveyor's shed\" is a remnant of this period.\n\nSince the 1920s the property has been the subject of many preservation and money-making schemes. James Beverly Colbert sought to profit from the land's associations with Washington. The writer George Allan England agreed to write real-estate ads promoting the historical value of the land for a $5,000 fee upon the land's sale. He made full use of the many Weem's tales. Colbert also helped promote the thought that a non-important structure called \"The Surveyor Shed,\" was a genuine relic, though it was not. Since the bicentennial celebration of George Washington's Birthday was approaching, Colbert and England thought the land would sell quickly, but there were other historical sites vying for preservation and the Great Depression finally killed their dream.\n\nIn each subsequent decade, different groups of preservationists have tried to make a \"national shrine\" out of Washington's boyhood home. The 1960s saw the creation of a home for troubled boys on the site. This project left on the landscape the site's most visible feature—a large pseudo-Georgian building which now houses a museum, offices, and archaeological lab, which, since 2006, is viewable for visitors.\n\nIn the 1990s Stafford County's Board of Supervisors set out to both preserve the site and bring business to the county. Their attempts ultimately led to rezoning and a bid by Wal-Mart to buy the property and construct a large store adjacent to the boyhood site. This was opposed by many in Fredericksburg, which would have been able to see the back of the store from town. There was a widespread feeling that such a change in this historical town's viewshed would have had adverse effects on the town's crucial tourist trade as well as harming the town's charm and quality of life. The result was a deal whereby Historic Kenmore (the circa 1770s Fredericksburg home of Washington's sister Betty Washington Lewis and her husband Fielding Lewis), in conjunction with the National Park Service and commonwealth funds, purchased the site. Historic Kenmore became George Washington's Fredericksburg Foundation and in 2008 The George Washington Foundation. This foundation oversees both sites as well as Augustine Washington's ironworks at Accokeek (Potomac) Furnace (1726~ 56) in Stafford County, part of the Principio Company.\n\nIt was declared a National Historic Landmark in 2000.\n\nExtensive archaeological investigations began in 2002 under the direction of David Muraca (formerly of Colonial Williamsburg) and Philip Levy of the University of South Florida. The goal of the excavations is to locate and understand the original Washington farm complex. In 2008, Levy and Muraca announced that one of three sites excavated yielded the original home site, including foundations of a 53 by home. The home had suffered a small fire during George Washington's lifetime. In 2018 a replica of the original home was completed above these foundations and guided tours are offered on a daily basis. Ferry Farm also runs children's programs and other public events.\n\nIt is located at 237 King's Highway (Virginia Route 3), near Fredericksburg. A building associated with George Washington's surveying work is listed at 712 King's Highway.\n\nSamuel Warren and Irma Warren bought the land in 1969. The Warrens were interested in historical preservation and kept the property in the family for nearly 30 years but they eventually sought to rezone the land as a B-1 commercial lot. They then reached an agreement with Stafford County, with the county agreeing to rezoning a parcel of the land, and the Warrens agreeing to donate 24 acres surrounding the Colbert house. The sale, however, marked the start of a long controversy between commercial interests and proponents of national heritage. Robert Siegrist entered the controversy and expressed an interest in maintaining the land that was recently donated to Stafford County. Siegrist maintained the property for 4 years until early on the morning of September 26, 1994 when a fire broke out at the Colbert house. Stafford County quickly ended its relationship with Siegrist and looked for alternate applications of the property. \nIn 1995, the Walmart corporation sought the land surrounding the Washington Site, and worked to purchase it. Included in the purchase was a promise that the site heritage would be preserved through a columned plaza with \"special tributes to George and the Cherry Tree.\" However, there was a large opposition including Fredericksburg small business owners, local historical preservationists, and many national organizations such as Daughters of the American Revolution. The conflict came to a head on April 1, 1995 after the review board assigned to the task rejected Walmart's offer.\n\nThe George Washington Foundation purchased the land in 1996 and since 2003 has supported an archeological field school at the site. The summer excavations are led by Philip Levy (associate professor of history at the University of South Florida) and David Muraca (who previously worked at Colonial Williamsburg). Digs are organized through university groups and consist of undergraduate and graduate volunteers. Archeologists and volunteers have found artifacts dating from the prehistoric period through the Civil War and beyond.\n\nIn 2006-2008 the archeology team headed by Muraca and Levy, funded by the George Washington Foundation, found the cellar to, and thus the location of George Washington's boyhood home. Using the remains of the building and the artifacts within, they have dated the feature to the 1740s, the time when the Washingtons lived on the land. In 2015, groundbreaking began on a replica house built above the original foundations using information gleaned from the archaeological remains, contemporary descriptions of the original house, and knowledge of similar houses in Colonial Virginia. The house was built using eighteenth-century building techniques by experts in colonial craftsmanship, and completed and opened to the public in 2018. It is stocked with reproductions of the furniture and objects listed in Augustine Washington's probate inventory as having been in the house when he died in 1743. Since they are reproductions, tour guides encourage guests to interact with all of the objects in the house, allowing them to sit on the furniture, open cabinets, and handle objects. \n\nThe George Washington Foundation now owns the land as well as Kenmore, the Fredericksburg home of Washington's sister Betty and her husband Fielding Lewis. The GWF is funded by donors and grants and has been managing the land since the Walmart purchase. In addition to funding, staffing, cataloging, and overseeing the site's excavations there are now plans to recreate the historical landscape and build a new visitor's center on the site.\n\nArtifacts found at the Ferry Farm site have dated back to 10,000 B.C. This period of prehistoric artifacts continues on until 1,500 B.C. Artifacts from this period include hunting and gather tools, which prehistoric peoples used to hunt wildlife around and in the Rappahannock River. The land around Ferry Farm was rich in nutrients and populated with multiple animals.\n\"Such diversity in food sources required these groups to expand the types of tools they used.\" \nExamples of artifacts that were found include spear points, stone axes, and quartz scrapers, which were used as tools for hunting.\n\nWhile evidence is scarce, artifacts have been dated back to 1,500 B.C. until 1,500 A.D. when Woodland Indians inhabited the land around current day Ferry Farm.\n\nPopular artifacts found from the Colonial Period include the ends of 18th century wig hair curlers. \n\"[...] These were associated with maintaining wigs for George Washington's younger brothers. The fashionable gentlemen of the late 18th century wore a wig- the single most expensive part of the gentry-class man's wardrobe.\"\n\nIn 1862 the Civil War arrived at Ferry Farm leaving behind a variety of artifacts throughout the duration of the war. Such as objects from battles including bullets, ink bottles, buttons and medallions from uniforms to name a few.\n\nFerry Farm is the setting for some of the best known stories about George Washington, most particularly those brought to the American public by Mason Locke Weems, best known as Parson Weems, in the early 19th century. These include the anecdote, appearing first in the 1806 edition of Weems's Life of Washington, in which a 6-year-old George barked one of his father Augustine's favorite English cherry trees with a new hatchet. Upon being confronted by his father, the boy confessed, saying: \"I cannot tell a lie; I did it with my little hatchet.\"\n\nGeorge Washington's step-grandson, George Washington Parke Custis, published a newer version of the story in which George Washington tried to break his mothers new colt (horse). In this story, Washington rode the horse \"so hard\" that one of the horse's blood vessel's burst, killing the horse. Like the cherry tree story, when confronted George Washington admitted to killing the horse. \nBoth stories celebrate George Washington's honesty and share a theme of loss, which Washington was painfully familiar with after his father's death and losing his opportunity to study abroad.\n\nIt has also been claimed to be the site where George Washington \"threw a silver dollar across the Rappahannock River.\" It is possible to \"skip\" a coin or flat rock across that area. Regardless, the river was considerably wider during this period than it is today, making the feat that much more difficult. Each year during the celebration of Washington's birthday, townspeople are invited to attempt to recreate this event. In the summer of 2006, archaeology intern Jim Trueman duplicated Washington's alleged throw and did it again the following summer to prove the first throw was not a fluke.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306889", "title": "Disco Pigs", "text": "Disco Pigs\n\nDisco Pigs is a 2001 Irish film directed by Kirsten Sheridan and written by Enda Walsh, who adapted it from his 1996 play of the same name. Cillian Murphy and Elaine Cassidy star as Cork teenagers who have a lifelong, but unhealthy, friendship that is imploding as they approach adulthood.\n\nThe film revolves around the intense relationship of the two teenage protagonists, Darren (Cillian Murphy) and Sinéad (Elaine Cassidy), who call each other \"Pig\" and \"Runt,\" respectively. Pig and Runt were born at the same hospital at nearly the same time and grow up next door to each other. This brings about an extremely close relationship between the two that borders on telepathic. They live in their own world and barely interact with the one around them; when they do, it's mostly to express their hostility toward it. Until just before their 17th birthday, their relationship, while very intense and unhealthy, remains platonic.\n\nAround this time, Runt catches and reciprocates the attentions of another young man, Marky (Darren Healy), from their school just as Pig begins to develop romantic feelings for Runt. As their birthday draws closer, Pig becomes more volatile and violent and his new feelings become obvious to Runt when he kisses her after a rampage at a nightclub. Runt does not know how to reject him and they continue their friendship, though relations between them are markedly awkward. Their relationship finally raises concerns at their school. With the cooperation of her parents and Pig's single mother, Runt, considered the more adaptive of the two, is sent away to a boarding school. Pig is devastated by this and decides to run away and retrieve Runt.\n\nEven though Runt is paralysed with uncertainty and fear at the boarding school, unsure of how to live her daily life without Pig, she starts to adapt, even befriending another girl. On their 17th birthday, Pig arrives at Runt's school and asks her to leave with them, which she does. Elated at their reunion, the two eventually chance upon a nightclub called The Palace. There, Runt sees Marky again and dances with him. In a fit of jealous rage, Pig beats Marky until he dies. The two flee the club and take a taxi to the beach where they often spend time and make love. In the morning, Pig wordlessly allows Runt to smother him, knowing the punishment awaiting him. Runt stares out to the ocean, wondering what the rest of her life will be like.\n\nDarren/\"Pig\" is portrayed by Cillian Murphy, who also originally played the part in the stage version. Runt is the only person Pig knows well. Pig also has an extreme hatred for public displays of affection. He cannot begin to comprehend a world where Runt does not exist. Together, they create a surreal world where there is little division between reality and dreams and Pig's and Runt's two personas. Pig is a strange, volatile dreamer. Charles Bark portrays Young Pig.\n\nSinéad/\"Runt\" is portrayed by Elaine Cassidy. She is the calmer of the two characters. When events involving Pig get too wild, Runt steps in quietly. Although the less voiced of the two, she is the more independent. Eileen Walsh played this role on stage. Sarah Gallagher portrays Young Runt.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306900", "title": "Web of Spider-Man", "text": "Web of Spider-Man\n\nWeb of Spider-Man is the name of two different monthly comic book series starring Spider-Man that have been published by Marvel Comics since 1985, the first volume of which ran for 129 issues between 1985 and 1995, and the second of which ran for 12 issues between 2009 and 2010.\n\nThe first volume of \"Web of Spider-Man\" published by Marvel Comics for 129 issues between April 1985 and October 1995. It replaced \"Marvel Team-Up\" as the third major Spider-Man title of the time. \"Web of Spider-Man Annual\" ran for ten issues from 1985 to 1994.\nThe series was launched with an April 1985 cover dated issue by writer Louise Simonson and penciller Greg LaRocque and featured the return of Spider-Man's alien black costume, which attempted to rebond with Peter Parker. Peter managed to rid himself of the costume again using church bells and the alien was presumed to have died after that. The first issue featured a cover painting by artist Charles Vess.\n\nIn issue #18 (September 1986), Peter Parker is pushed in front of an oncoming train. He thinks to himself that this should not have happened, as his spider-sense would have warned him of the danger. Writer David Michelinie has said that he wrote this as the first \"teaser\" appearance of the character Venom, whom he was planning to introduce at a later date. Venom is an amalgam of reporter Eddie Brock and the alien costume. The costume could nullify Spider-Man's spider-sense, and this was the first clue of a puzzle that Michelinie was planning to weave to introduce Venom. \n\n\"Web of Spider-Man Annual\" #2 (1986) featured stories drawn by Arthur Adams and Mike Mignola. A followup to the \"Spider-Man vs. Wolverine\" one-shot appeared in issue #29. The \"Kraven's Last Hunt\" storyline by writer J.M. DeMatteis and artists Mike Zeck and Bob McLeod began in issue #31 (October 1987).\n\nThe \"Tribute-to-Teen-Agers\" story in issue #35 saw the debut of the creative team of writer Gerry Conway and artist Alex Saviuk. \"Web of Spider-Man\" #50 featured guest-appearances by several minor Marvel super-heroes such as the Puma, the Prowler, and Rocket Racer. A hologram on the cover of issue #90 (July 1992) marked the 30th anniversary of Spider-Man's first appearance. A four-part crossover with \"Ghost Rider/Blaze: Spirits of Vengeance\" began in issue #95(December 1992). Spider-Man donned \"Spider-Armor\" in issue #100's story by Terry Kavanagh and Alex Saviuk.\n\nThe \"Clone Saga\" storyline began in issue #117 (October 1994) and Ben Reilly became the Scarlet Spider in the next issue.\n\nAfter issue #129 in October 1995, the title was renamed \"Web of Scarlet Spider\" and started again at #1. After four issues, the series was cancelled to make way for the new \"The Sensational Spider-Man\" title.\n\nIn December 2009, \"Web of Spider-Man\" volume 2 debuted as a new anthology title replacing \"Amazing Spider-Man Family\", with the initial story written by J. M. DeMatteis focusing on Kaine. The title also served as the new home for Spider-Girl, who was written by Tom DeFalco and illustrated by Ron Frenz, the character having first appeared on Marvel.com as \"The Spectacular Spider-Girl\". The stories feature characters tied to \"The Gauntlet\" storyline, such as Electro, the Rhino, the Lizard, and many more from Spider-Man's colorful rogues gallery, each titled \"Gauntlet: Origins, ...\". The series ended in November 2010 with issue #12.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306905", "title": "Robert Jones (composer)", "text": "Robert Jones (composer)\n\nRobert Jones (c. 1577 – 1617) was an English lutenist and composer, the most prolific of the English lute song composers (along with Thomas Campion).\n\nHe received the degree of B.Mus from Oxford in 1597 (St. Edmund Hall). He ran a school in London. Records show that he had a patent (monopoly) to train children for the Queen's Revels between 1610–1615. In 1610, he collaborated with Philip Rosseter to present plays at the Whitefriars theatre. He was recorded as a Gentleman of the Chapel Royal in 1612.\n\nHe published five volumes of simple and melodious lute songs, and one of madrigals; he also contributed to \"The Triumphs of Oriana\" and Leighton's \"Teares\". His 27 madrigals are mostly to texts about birds – birds merry, sweet, shrill, crowing or melancholic.\n\nWilliam Shakespeare quoted his song, 'Farewell, dear love', in \"Twelfth Night.\"\n\nThe date and place of Jones's death are not known.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306908", "title": "Slither (2006 film)", "text": "Slither (2006 film)\n\nSlither is a 2006 American body horror film written and directed by James Gunn in his directorial debut. Starring Nathan Fillion, Elizabeth Banks, Tania Saulnier, Gregg Henry, and Michael Rooker, the film depicts a small town in South Carolina that becomes invaded by a malevolent alien parasite.\n\n\"Slither\" was a box office bomb, but received generally positive reviews from critics and has since become a cult film.\n\nA malevolent, sentient extraterrestrial parasite lands inside a meteorite into the town of Wheelsy, South Carolina, where it infects wealthy resident Grant Grant, taking over his body and absorbing his mind. With the alien in control of his body, \"Grant\" begins to transform into a grotesque, tentacled monstrosity. He also abducts and infects a local woman, Brenda, to serve as a breeder for his alien larvae. His wife Starla becomes suspicious over the changes in his appearance and his behavior, leading to Grant attacking her. When the police arrive to rescue Starla, Grant flees.\n\nDuring their search for Grant, a posse led by Police Chief Bill Pardy discovers Brenda, who has become inhumanly bloated from the larvae impregnated inside her. They see the floor littered with the remains of dead animals, as Brenda begs to be fed a possum, the slug-like larvae burst from her body, which infest everyone in town except Starla, Bill, Mayor Jack MacReady, and teenager Kylie Strutemyer. Those infected by the larvae become part of a hive mind controlled by Grant, who intends to consume all lifeforms until only his consciousness remains. However, Grant also retains his love for his wife and seeks to be reunited with her. The survivors deduce that killing Grant will eliminate the rest of the aliens before they are attacked by the infected townspeople. Bill and Kylie escape, but Starla and Jack are captured.\n\nArmed with a grenade to kill the monster, Bill and Kylie head to Grant's home, where the infected are being absorbed by the increasingly-mutated Grant. Jack and others are turned into breeders for more larvae, while Grant keeps Starla uninfected in the hope of reclaiming her love. After euthanizing Jack at his own request, Bill tries to use the grenade, only for it to fall into a pool when Grant knocks it away. Grant subdues Kylie with a couch and attempts to infect Bill with his tentacles, but Bill manages to attach one of the tentacles to a propane tank. Filled with flammable gas, Grant is shot by Starla and explodes, killing the rest of the aliens in the process. With everyone else in Wheelsy dead, the three survivors head off to seek help.\n\nIn a post-credits scene, a cat approaches Grant's remains and becomes infected by the alien parasite.\n\n\nAdditionally, William MacDonald and Iris Quinn portray Kylie's parents and Matreya Fedor and Amber Lee Bartlett portray her siblings Emily and Jenna. Other members of Bill's posse are played by Tom Heaton as Tourneur, Ben Cotton as Charlie, and Dee Jay Jackson as Dwight. Residents of Wheelsy include Dustin Milligan as a student in Starla's class, Lorena Gale as Starla's co-worker Janene, Darren Shahlavi as Brenda's husband, and Magda Apanowicz in an uncredited role as Kylie's friend. Troma Films co-founder Lloyd Kaufman has a cameo as drunken man and Rob Zombie provides the voice of Grant's physician Dr. Karl. Director James Gunn makes an uncredited appearance as Hank, Starla's co-worker.\n\nControversy ensued over the many similarities and plot-points shared with Fred Dekker's 1986 horror-comedy \"Night of the Creeps\". According to journalist Steve Palopoli:\n\nPalopoli then goes on to directly compare \"Slither\" to the aforementioned \"Creeps\" as well as \"Shivers\" (1975). Gunn has stated that both Cronenberg's \"Shivers\" and his 1979 film \"The Brood\" were the two biggest influences on the story in \"Slither,\" along with the 2000 manga \"Uzumaki\" by Junji Ito.\n\nThe film pays homage to other horror films, such as a farm being owned by Castevet in reference the Satan-worshiping next-door neighbors in \"Rosemary's Baby\". Jack MacReady, the mayor of Wheelsy, is named after Kurt Russell's characters Jack Burton and R.J. MacReady from the John Carpenter films \"Big Trouble in Little China\" and \"The Thing\".\n\n\"Slither\" was released on regular DVD and on HD DVD/DVD hybrid disc on October 24, 2006. The HD version is presented in 1.85:1 widescreen encoded at 1080p and Dolby Digital-Plus 5.1 surround. In addition to the film, the DVD contains two making-of documentaries, one being solely dedicated to the visual effects. The DVD also contains deleted and extended scenes, a blooper reel, visual effects progressions, a set tour with Fillion, and an audio commentary by Gunn and Fillion. Also included are featurettes outlining how to make edible blood, and Lloyd Kaufman's documentary discussing his day on set, and the shooting of his one line (which was eventually cut from the film). Finally, there is an added bonus entitled \"Who Is Bill Pardy?\" which is a joke feature made by Gunn with the sole purpose of roasting Fillion, and was shown at the film's wrap party.\n\nShout! Factory released a Collector's Edition on Blu-ray Disc on July 25, 2017. In addition to new case artwork illustrated by artist Justin Osbourn, it includes new special features such as a new audio commentary with James Gunn and cast members, new interviews with James Gunn and actor Gregg Henry (Jack MacReady) as well as all of the special features found on the original DVD video.\n\n\"Slither\" was \"a box office flop\", failing to recoup its production budget following its debut in the United States and Canada on March 31, 2006 in 1,945 theaters. In its opening weekend, the film grossed $3,880,270 and ranked #8 at the U.S. and Canadian box office. \"Slither\" grossed $7,802,450 in its theatrical run in the United States and Canada. \"Slither\" also under-performed in France, grossing $236,261 from 150 screens. The film grossed $5,032,486 as of February 6, 2008 in territories outside the United States and Canada for a worldwide gross of $12,834,936. Its box office performance was substantially less than its total budget of $29.5 million, including marketing costs; the production budget taking up about $15 million of the total.\n\nPaul Brooks, president of the film's production company, Gold Circle Films, said the company was \"crushingly disappointed\" by the gross. Universal distanced itself from \"Slither\"s poor box office performance, citing their distribution of the film as merely part of a deal with Gold Circle. \"The Hollywood Reporter\" speculated that \"Slither\"s performance \"might have killed off the horror-comedy genre for the near future.\" Producer Paul Brooks offered this explanation about why \"Slither\" failed to catch on with filmgoers:\n\n\"Slither\" received generally positive reviews. According to the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 86% of critics have given the film a positive review based on 138 reviews, with an average rating of 6.9/10. The site's critics consensus states: \"A slimy, B-movie homage oozing with affection for low-budget horror films, \"Slither\" is creepy and funny — if you've got the stomach for it.\" At Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 69 out of 100 based on 27 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\".\n\nThe movie was featured in the April 14, 2006 issue of \"Entertainment Weekly\" as #1 on \"The Must List\"; \"Ten Things We Love This Week\". Guest critic Michael Phillips named \"Slither\" his DVD pick of the week on the television show \"Ebert & Roeper\". \"Slither\" was listed as one of the \"Top 25 DVDs of the Year\" by Peter Travers in \"Rolling Stone\" magazine.\n\nAmong the critics who did not like the film, Roger Ebert and Richard Roeper gave \"Slither\" a \"two thumbs down\" rating on their television show, with Roeper saying he was \"all zombied out\" after reviewing a wave of zombie-themed films from the year before.\n\n\"Slither\" picked up the 2006 \"Fangoria\" \"Chainsaw Award\" for the \"Highest Body Count\", and garnered nominations in the categories of \"Relationship From Hell\", \"Dude You Don<nowiki>'</nowiki>t Wanna Mess With\", and \"Looks That Kill\". Additionally, the horror magazine \"Rue Morgue\" named \"Slither\" the \"Best Feature Film of the Year\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306909", "title": "Babahoyo", "text": "Babahoyo\n\nBabahoyo (), founded September 30, 1948, by legislative decree, is the capital of the Los Ríos province of Ecuador. Its population is cited around 153,000. It is bordered by two rivers, the San Pablo and the Caracol, which join to form the Babahoyo River. This meets the Daule River to form the Guayas River, which runs to the Pacific Ocean at the Gulf of Guayaquil.\n\nA processing and trade center for the surrounding agricultural region, the city handles rice, sugarcane, fruits, balsa wood, and tagua nuts (vegetable ivory). Rice and sugar are also milled here.\n\nThe city is located in on the left bank of the San Pablo River, which unites in its estuary with the Catarama River to form the Babahoyo River. One of the most interesting excursions one can take in the area is a boat trip on the Babahoyo River. Babahoyo is located in Litoral and is an obligatory stop to reach the mountains through the highways Babahoyo – Quito (Via Panamericana), Babahoyo – Ambato (Via Flores) and also through Babahoyo – Riobamba. Babahoyo is located in the south of the province of Los Ríos. The roads that unite it with other cities and towns in the coast are Babhoyo – Baba, Babahoyo – Guayaquil and Babahoyo – Milagro. Its geographical location is one of the best because more than 25000 cars, buses, trailers and trucks pass through Babahoyo every day. Babhoyo is a commercial center between the coast and the mountains. Through the urban road network, the city counts on two pedestrian bridges that permit communication between Barreiro and El Salto. There are four bridges for vehicles: the first two cross the Catarama River and the San Pablo river in the north of the city (highway Babahoyo – Quito); the third crosses the Lagarto marsh in the south of the city (highway Babahoyo – Guayaquil); and the fourth is located in the sector of La Ventura (highway Babahoyo – Ambato).\n\nThe city of Babahoyo was founded on May 27, 1869 in the lands ceded by the Flores family. Facing the confluence of the Babahoyo River and Caracol River, the city was established on the right bank of the San Pablo River. For a long time it was called Bodegas (warehouses) because the customs and royal stores were located in the city, to control the commerce between Guayaquil and the cities of the Ecuadorian mountains.\n\nBabahoyo suffered from many fires, the worst one occurring on March 30, 1867, which demolished all of the goods of the population, creating a sufficient motive for the government of Dr. Gabriel García Moreno to move the city to its current location. The capital was moved to the other side of the San Pablo River, where the urban district of Barreiro is now located.\n\nIt is a prototype of the activity and height of different orders of national life, and will continue to be so, because it has its own resources; it is the backbone of two regions: coast and mountains; being the most influential point in between the two, where the forces of many enterprising villages are bonded; because here the agricultural and commercial aspirations were founded.\n\nBabahoyo has a population of 153,000 inhabitants in the city center, which is one of the largest of the region. It is one of the 10 biggest cities of the country. A large part of its population is in the urban area and in the outskirts of the city which are near the Bypass (Via E25, highway Babahoyo – Quito) that passes through all of the city from the south to the northeast. The center of the city begins at Malecón 9 de octubre, and includes the roads Juan x Marcos Isaías Chopitea and ends at Primero de Mayo. This is the center for commerce and public administration. The center has all infrastructure services and a large part of the community centers of the city; the buildings of this sector are built with strong, modern materials. The roads are in good repair, all with strong paving and some paved with flexible asphalt.\n\nThe population is mainly dedicated to farming and the common crops are rice and bananas. Different industries have taken root in this city such as Industrias Facundo located in the periphery of the city, and also the Ingenio Isabel Maria, the fourth largest refinery in the country, and different (piladoras); a large part of the city is upwardly mobile above all in the city center which is the largest economic center in the province. There are also a few different banking entities.\n\nThe patron saint’s day is 24 September. Each year Babahoya gives just homage to the Virgin of Merced in the following manner: from the 15th until 23 September, different groups carry the Virgin through the streets of the city. On the 24th the day of September Merced is celebrated. Artisans of the mountain and coastal regions of Ecuador show and sell their wares, and there is always a large fair of children's toys. Folkloric groups and national and sometimes international singers come to give homage to the Virgin.\n\nNoteworthy attractions of the capital include the verdant gardens of \"Parque 24 de Mayo\" and the city's main cathedral, which is decorated with an enormous mosaic mural depicting the Virgin Mary.\n\nOne of the excursions that the area offers involves sailing down the \"Rio Babahoyo\", taking in the countryside and the traditional lifestyle of the area's \"campesinos\" who live off the land, cultivating crops and raising cattle. One feature of this journey that stands out is seeing the floating houses unique to the area.\n\nWithin the local festivals and holidays that Babahoyans celebrate are the following:\n\nThe city has a hot and humid climate. Babahoyo floods frequently during the winter months. (Note:Babahoyo flooded during January–June 2008 in which the entire city flooded)\n\nIn Babahoyo the main dish is the \"ceviche\" of shrimp, fish and conch. Another characteristic dish famous in Babahoyo is the \"caldo de manguera\" (sausage soup).\n\nMost bus companies running between Quito and Guayaquil stop or pass through Babahoyo. Quevedo connects with Guayaquil by two highways, a less popular one through Balzar and Daule, and one that passes through Babahoyo.\n\nBabahoyo has two Transportation Agencies: Fluminense and The Santa Ana Cooperative. There are 5 bus routes and each of these go from the northeast to the south passing through the city center. There is also transportation by boat which joins the urban parishes of Barreiro and El Salto and the rural parishes of Pimocha and Caracol.\n\nLocated in the northwest of Babahoyo, close to the mountains, is an agricultural district which is dedicated to fishing and rice, soy and banana cultivation.\n\nIt is a very large district in regards to area. It borders Puebloviejo county in the north, the Babahoyo River in the south, the Caracol River in the east, and the Garrapata River in the west. Its precincts are Cauge, Guarumo, Chapulo, Convento, Mapan, Sauce, Gallinazo, Papayal, Compañía, Pechiche Dulce, Santa Rita, Las tres bocas, Calabria, Cubon de Caimito, Parindero, Río Grande, Tejar, Providencia, etc. It is certain that it was home to many tribes that formed the Huancavilca villages.\n\nThe main source of work and wealth is agriculture although some other industries exist. The ground produces cocoa, rice, sugar cane, coffee, rubber, fine wood, especially oak, cedar and balsa wood. Bananas are exported in large quantities. Also pineapple, sapote, and many wild fruits grow here. Extensive industries other than livestock and fishery are sugar factories and liquor production and rice and coffee farming.\n\nIt is one of the oldest populations. Perhaps like Ojivarm it was the location of an indigenous tribe that the Spanish encountered during their expedition in these lands. In 1838 the population was raised to a category of an ecclesiastical parrish, making it independent of the curate of Babahoyo. It borders Catarma in the north, Barriero in the south, Montalvo in the east and is separated from Pimocha in the west by the Caracol River.\n\nCreated in the beautiful Recinto de Las Juntas on May 14, 1936, its inhabitants are farmers and ranchers. Febres Cordero is one of the most important agricultural centres of the city.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306924", "title": "Nancy Hodges", "text": "Nancy Hodges\n\nNancy Hodges (October 28, 1888 – December 15, 1969) was a Canadian journalist and politician. Over her career, she served as a Member of the Legislative Assembly of British Columbia, as the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly of British Columbia, and as a member of the Senate of Canada. She was the first woman in the Commonwealth of Nations to become Speaker, and was known as a powerful women's rights activist in the Commonwealth.\n\nBorn in London, England, Nancy Hodges attended King's College at the London University. She and her husband, Harry P. Hodges, moved to Victoria, British Columbia, in 1916 due to him needing a dry climate for recovery for his tuberculosis. She then found a job as the women's editor for the \"Victoria Day Times\", where she had a daily column. Through 30 years of being an esteemed journalist, she produced over 2,550 columns. Along with her passion for the paper, she was involved in the Victoria Business and Professional Women's Club, where she became a charter member, and later President. Although losing this election, she ran again in 1941 and succeeded, staying in power until 1953.\n\nHodges first ran for office in the 1937 election in the multi-member riding of Victoria City, as a member of the Liberal Party. She was the first woman to run as a Liberal. She campaigned on increasing the quality of social conditions, resulting in better old-age pensions. Other ideas included bettering medical services and insurance, protection of single women, and compensation benefits for the working class. She came in seventh place and failed to be elected. She ran again in the 1941 election and was elected to the legislature. When the 1941 election produced only a plurality of seats for the governing Liberals, Hodges was one of the MLAs who supported forming a coalition with the Conservatives; when Liberal premier and leader Duff Pattullo argued that \"coalition with the Conservatives will be the end of the Liberal Party in British Columbia.\", Hodges responded \"Coalition won't kill any party that hasn't germs of decay in it already.\" The coalitionists ultimately won out, and Pattullo was replaced as premier by John Hart.\n\nHodges took interest in the Victoria Business and Professional Women's Club, where her slogan was born: \"Equal pay for equal work!\" She had a strong belief that more women should be entering into politics to make a positive change. Hodges' principles occasionally led her to work across party lines with the other women in the legislature (Tilly Rolston, Conservative; Dorothy Steeves, Laura Jamieson, Grace MacInnis, CCF) to promote women's issues; in one instance, Hodges and the other women convinced the government to buy seven Emily Carr paintings before she was nationally renowned, making the purchase a bargain upon Carr's recognition.\n\nHodges was re-elected in 1945 and 1949. She attended a public meeting conference for the United Nations in 1945 for International Peace in San Francisco. In this meeting, the Charter of the United Nations was first signed. In 1947, she attacked the Coalition government for laying off single women to provide jobs for returning veterans, and threatened to campaign for pensions for women at 40 if the practice continued. The firing of women stopped. During this time, Hodges advocated for women to be eligible for worker's compensation benefits, and for married women to receive property rights.\n\nWhen John Hart stepped down in 1947, Hodges supported Boss Johnson as his successor, nominating him in a passionate speech at the convention; Johnson won by eight votes. Following his victory, there was speculation among the press that Hodges would receive a cabinet post as a reward, but Hodges rejected such rumours, and said she would not accept a cabinet post. In 1950, she was elected as Speaker of the Legislative Assembly, becoming the first woman in the Commonwealth of Nations to hold that office. She hinted towards \"political repayment\" and objected to the appointment on the grounds of sex. During her time as Speaker, Hodges toured North America, including visits to The Californian Business and Professional Women's Club, The Canadian Federation of Liberal Women, and The Women's Canadian Club in Ottawa. In July 1950, Hodges was invited to The Halifax Convention of the Federation of Canadian Business and Professional Women's Clubs where she was named Canadian Woman of 1950.\n\nHodges was defeated in the 1953 election by the Social Credit candidate, Lydia Arsens. Shortly after, she was appointed to the Senate of Canada in 1953, representing the senatorial division of Victoria, British Columbia, and served until her resignation in 1965. Increase in salary for underpaid government workers, teachers, and mothers were among the causes she took up as a senator. She later became the President of the National Association of Liberal Women. During her time as a senator, Hodges was a member of numerous committees, including the Standing Committee on Immigration and Labour, the Standing Committee on Internal Economy and Contingent Accounts, and the Standing Committee on Divorce. Along with being a member of Senate committees, she was also a member of various Joint Committees including those of Restaurant and Parliament, and Capital and Corporal Punishment and Lotteries.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306931", "title": "Kovvur, West Godavari district", "text": "Kovvur, West Godavari district\n\nKovvur is a town in West Godavari district of the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh. It is a municipality and the mandal headquarters of Kovvur mandal in Kovvur revenue division.\n\nThis Town was earlier referred as \"Govur\".\nAccording to Brahma Puranam, Kovvur(Govuru) is considered as the place of Gautama Maharishi's Ashramam. He did farming in the surrounding regions to maintain his Ashramam. Gautama Maharishi once he accidentally kills a cow, grazing in his paddy field, by throwing a darbha (sharp, pointed grass). Gautama becomes upset with this incident and offers a great tapas for Lord Shiva in Brahmagiri mountains. The god, pleased by his tapas, wipes away his sin and allows Ganga to flow in his farm to purify the place (Kovvur). The river thus originated is called \"Godavari\" which means \"originated due to killing a cow\". It is also called as \"Gautami\" in appreciation to the effort of the maharishi in bringing Godavari to earth. Gautama maharishi accidentally kills a cow in his farm and to clear out his sin, he offers a great tapas near Bhrahmagiri parvatas near Triambakam in Maharashtra. Lord Shiva pleased with his tapas allows Ganga to sanctify the region. \n\nKovvuru is a transformed name of Govuru which originated from the above story. The names of various places around Kovvuru highlight this fact. It is believed that Gautama established a Vijneswara temple in the South and a Kumaraswami temple in the North of his Ashrama. These are currently known as Vijjeswaram and Kumaradevam. The place where Gautama ploughed the farm was Arikirevula which is transformed to Arikirevu. Vadapalli, Munikoodali, Brahmanagudem were the places of rishis. The place where Ahalya lived was called Tougimi which is currently called Togummi. The place where the cow was Died was chavugallu which is currently called Chagallu.\n\nKovvuru Goshpada Kshetram is very sacred place and a must visit place during pushkaras.\n\nKovvuru is situated on the west bank of the Godavari River, at a distance of from the district headquarters, Eluru. It is located at and has an average elevation of . Kovvur Is The Most Peaceful Town In The District And Devotional Town, \"Goshpada Kshetram\" Very Well Known Tourist Place Where Godavari Pushkaralu Takes Place.\n\n India census, Kovvur had a population of 39,193. Males constitute 50% of the population and females 50%. Kovvur has an average literacy rate of 70%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 74%, and female literacy is 66%. In Kovvur, 11% of the population is under 6 years of age.\n\nCivic administration\n\nKovvur municipality was formed in the year 1965. It is a \"III–Grade Municipality\", which is spread over an area of and has 23 election wards.\n\nThe transport is mainly supported by the presence of bridges across Godavari River such as, the Godavari Bridge, which is the second longest railroad bridge in Asia; and the Godavari Arch Bridge, commissioned on 14 March 1997 for Howrah–Chennai main line. While, the Old Godavari Bridge (The Havelock Bridge) was the earliest of all, built in 1897 and was decommissioned in 1997.\n\nThe town has a total road length of . The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation operates bus services from Kovvur bus station The depot was reopened in 2015.\n\n is one of the fourteen \"D–category\" stations in the Vijayawada railway division of South Central Railway zone. Kovvur will become a Potential Railway junction Between both Telugu States After Completion of Kovvur-Bhadrachalam road Railway line.\n\nRajahmundry Airport is the nearest airport located 15km away from town.\n\nThe primary and secondary school education is imparted by government, aided and private schools, under the \"School Education Department\" of the state. The medium of instruction followed by different schools are English, Telugu.There Are Many Famous Institutions Like ABN&PRR College Of Sciences, Sanskrit colleges and Many Other Private Institutions.\n"}
{"id": "2306936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306936", "title": "ECC (eikaiwa)", "text": "ECC (eikaiwa)\n\nECC (Education through Communication for the Community) is based in the Kansai region of Japan and also has many branches in the Chūbu and Kantō regions. As of March 2020 it has 188 Foreign Language Institute schools across Japan, as well as 24 Airline Institute schools and 12 Global Communication Senka locations. It has over 400 native English speakers as instructors.\n\nIn November 2013 it was reported that ECC had 379,267 students studying seven different languages.\n\nA large proportion of the foreign instructors employed at ECC are recruited abroad. A large number of these are recruited in Canada, where regular recruiting sessions are held. Periodic recruiting sessions are held in Australia, the US, the UK and more recently in New Zealand.\n\nHalf of the average teacher's weekly schedule is composed of English lessons for children, with the remainder of the schedule made up of different types of adult lessons. Some teachers are also chosen to teach at businesses and universities. ECC does have limited voluntary overtime, mainly during the peak holiday periods when attendance is high.\n\nNewly hired teachers receive two weeks of training before being placed in classes, though more training is required for those chosen to teach more challenging types of classes. There is also annual training for those who continue past their first contract.\n\nECC foreign instructors are not required to be qualified English teachers, hold any EFL qualifications or have any previous teaching experience.\n\nAs of February 2012, ECC has 171 schools located across Japan.\n\nKanto region; 62 schools: Tokyo prefecture; 32 schools. Kanagawa prefecture; 12 schools, Saitama prefecture; 8 schools, Chiba prefecture; 6 schools, Tochigi prefecture; 2 schools, Fukushima prefecture: 1 school, Ibaraki prefecture: 1 school.\n\nTokai region; 43 schools: Aichi prefecture; 34 schools, Mie prefecture; 3 schools, Gifu prefecture; 3 schools, Shizuoka prefecture; 3 schools.\n\nKansai region; 61 schools, Osaka prefecture; 27 schools, Hyogo prefecture; 15 schools, Kyoto prefecture; 8 schools, Nara prefecture; 7 schools, Shiga prefecture; 3 schools, Wakayama prefecture; 1 school.\n\nChugoku and Kyushu regions; 5 schools, Okayama prefecture; 1 school; Fukuoka prefecture; 2 schools, Hiroshima prefecture; 1 school, Miyazaki prefecture; 1 school\n\n\nThe ECC Foreign Language Institute offers a range of diverse courses ranging from 1.5 year- olds' \"Mini Kids\" classes to adults' lessons. ECC also operates ECC Junior, which has thousands of small franchises nationwide, the majority operated by housewives who teach English to children from pre-school to junior high school levels. They also send teachers to kindergartens and pre-schools. ECC is a member of the .\n\nWhen Alles Toza Gaigo Gakuin English-language school closed in 1998, ECC was one of three language school chains to provide free lessons under certain conditions to former students in the Kansai region.\n\nThere are several labor unions at ECC, including an in-house union that organizes certain categories of full-time staff members, and a branch of the General Union that organizes both foreign employees and some Japanese workers. The General Union belongs to the National Union of General Workers (NUGW), which is itself a member of the National Trade Union Council (Zenrokyo).\n\nThe GU branch of ECC was declared on February 26, 1996. Since then the union has made achievements including English pay slips, flexible paid holidays, unemployment insurance, health and pension insurance, a toll-free number for Kinki district sub-teachers, improved emergency evacuation procedures, a pre-consultation agreement to consult with the union before making changes that affect union members, and mandatory training is now conducted during working hours (or else paid at overtime rates).\n\nFrom April 2013 teachers have the right to become seishain (permanent employees). Two employees (office staff) were promoted to seishain in 2013.\n\nOn July 29, 2013 the GU and ECC signed a collective agreement that GU members would always have their contracts renewed unless there were exceptional circumstances.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306938", "title": "WZZE", "text": "WZZE\n\nWZZE was an American Top 40 (CHR) radio station, which was located in the Philadelphia, Pennsylvania area. The station was broadcast via a transmitter located in Glen Mills, Pennsylvania. WZZE featured a variety of disc jockeys who all had various shifts at the station itself.\n\nThe station ceased broadcasting in 2014 but did not inform the Federal Communications Commission of this until June 28, 2019, at which point its license was canceled on July 2, 2019.\n"}
{"id": "2306939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306939", "title": "Pastaza", "text": "Pastaza\n\nPastaza may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2306952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306952", "title": "Tigre", "text": "Tigre\n\nTigre (\"Tiger\" in various languages),\"Tigres\" or \"El Tigre\" may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306957", "title": "Spyros disaster", "text": "Spyros disaster\n\nThe \"Spyros\" disaster was a major industrial disaster that occurred in Singapore in October 12, 1978, where the Greek tanker \"Spyros\" exploded at Jurong Shipyard, killing 76 people and injuring 69 others. It remains the worst accident, in terms of lives lost, in Singapore's post-war history. It is also Singapore's worst industrial accident.\n\nThe \"Spyros\" was owned by Ulysses Tanker Corporation of Liberia and operated by International Operations, SA. The Liberian-registered vessel was built by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries of Japan in 1964 and was a steam turbine-driven tanker of 64,081 tons deadweight.\n\nOn 6 October 1978, the \"Spyros\" arrived in Singapore for a full special survey and general repairs at Jurong Shipyard. One of the items for repair was the replacement of the missing cover for the drip tray of the vent pipe leading from the aft starboard fuel oil tank.\n\nAt around 2:15 p.m., \"Spyros\" exploded. The explosion occurred as about 150 workers, including women, returned to the engine and boiler rooms of the vessel after their lunch break for repair and cleaning work. A number of the ship's 32 crew were also on board.\n\nThe blast flung debris from the 35,600-tonne vessel as far as 100 metres (328 ft) away and started a flash fire that prevented dockside workers from rescuing those trapped inside the ship.\n\nMinutes after the accident, an extensive rescue operation swung into action, involving the police, military and medical services. All hospitals were alerted to be on stand-by for casualties.\n\nRescue workers went into the ship's engine and boiler rooms to search for missing workers. Eight fire engines and ambulances rushed to the scene and after the fire was doused, more rescue workers poured into the ship to help the injured and remove the dead. The injured were ferried to hospital in ambulances and helicopters.\n\nThe wounded were ferried by ambulance and helicopter to Alexandra Hospital and Singapore General Hospital. Most of those hospitalised suffered serious burns, with their conditions described as critical. Others, including four firemen, were treated for inhalation of toxic gas and shock.\n\nIn summary, 57 of the 76 died on the day of the accident. The others succumbed to their injuries in hospital. Of the 76 deaths, 70 were male, six were female, and 69 others were injured.\n\nAn inquiry found that safety practices were ignored when repairs were carried out on the vessel. Sparks from the cutting torch used during repairs caused a fire, which ignited an explosive vapour mixture within the aft starboard bunker (fuel) tank of the vessel. The fuel tank had been contaminated by crude oil. The explosion ruptured the common bulkhead between the tank and the engine room, releasing the burning oil into the engine room and setting it on fire, killing the workers there instantly.\n\nSoon after the accident, greater safety consciousness in the shipbuilding and repairing industry was enforced.\n\n"}
{"id": "2306965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306965", "title": "Pimpri", "text": "Pimpri\n\nPimpri is a suburb of Pune in the Pune Metropolitan Area in the state of Maharashtra, India.\n\nThe main language spoken in the town is Marathi. It is one of the busiest business hubs in the country famous for its Clothing and eateries. Well versed with religious spots for all religions, Pimpri is an example of Unity in Diversity of the country and depicts a true Indian spirit. People are known for their helping hand and charity for various religious and other occasions. Mata Vaishnav Devi Temple, a replica of original in Katra is one of the most visited places. People from various parts of the country come to visit religious places by which Pimpri is surrounded. Langar is organised by various social groups on weekly / monthly / yearly basis. Cheti ChandMela is celebrated on a huge scale, where, celebrities from Bollywood are called upon. Pimpri is also famous for education with historical schools Jai Hind School and Junior College Hindustan Antibiotics and Dr. DY Patil School and College, over here. High quality hospitals are also present over here two of them are YCM Hospital and DY Patil Hospital.\n\nGurunanak Jayanti, Chalio, Bahrana Sahib, Navratra, Diwali, Ganesh Chaturthi, Diwali, Shiv Jayanti, Ambedkar Jayanti and Eid-e-Milad are celebrated with lot of rigor and joy, Dussehra is also one of the important festival. All industries are closed during that time.\n\nThere are many industries based in Pimpri. These include Tata Motors, Mercedes Benz, Bajaj Auto, Force Motors, Eaton, times of india, Etc.\n\nPimpri is well connected by road, rail and air. The nearest airport is Pune Airport, with the Maharashtra government planning to set up a new airport near Chakan. Pune - Lonavla suburban local trains run through this area. The railway station for this area is Pimpri Railway Station. It has a State Transport Bus stand Pimpri-Chinchwad Bus Stand at Vallabhnagar. Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited(formed by merger of PCMT and PMT) operates the public transport system in this area. The Maharashtra government has proposed metro connectivity to Pimpri under the Pune Metro project. A Rainbow BRTS system is also under expansion in this area.\n\nPimpri comes under Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation. This corporation is situated in Pimpri. It was established in 1982 covering an area of about 87 square kilometers.\nSome primary schools and Pre-primary schools affiliated to Maharashtra state board have been developed in this locality in the past few years. Many schools affiliated to national education boards ICSE and CBSE have been established within the area limits.\n\n\n0 and Rise Pimpri\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306968", "title": "I Want a Dog", "text": "I Want a Dog\n\nI Want a Dog is a children's book written and illustrated by Dayal Kaur Khalsa, originally published by Tundra Books and Clarkson N. Potter in 1987. The cover painting of the original book, which was also featured in the film version, is based on \"Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte\" by Georges Seurat. The book's main character was named after May Cutler, founder of its Canadian publisher, Tundra.\n\nMay wants a dog more than anything else in the world, and, at school, often imagines that everyone in her class are dogs too. But no matter how much she wants one, her parents often say no to the offer.\n\nOne day, May tries to show them her such determination by luring, with salami, a pack of ten dogs to her home. But her mother wants them returned, and some time later, May buys a puppy for her mother's birthday using all of her allowance. It does not work to plan, and that same evening, May's parents discuss the trials and tribulations of raising dogs as pets.\n\nStill, as to May having a dog of her own, both of them object, and this leads to their daughter throwing her toys all over her room in outrage. It is not long before May sees one of her white rollerskates roll down the nearby staircase like a dog, which gives her an idea: along with a self-built training course, she can train that skate just like she would a real dog! Her school friends, hearing of her idea and amused at first, want to try walking it.\n\nAnother day, May arrives at the neighbourhood luncheonette to check out the newest comic books, leaving her skate outside. Little does she know that her \"dog\" is being interrogated by a real one! The latter runs away with it, and afterwards, May panics about its whereabouts. With her \"try, try again\" attitude, she is reunited with the skate by finding it nearby.\n\nIn time to come, May and the rollerskate become friends, and the craze as such is catching on with children all over her community. The biggest surprise of all, at the end of the story, is when she finally receives a real dog from her parents as a reward for her hard work.\n\nKirkus Reviews wrote \"An excellent read-aloud, this tribute to undaunted independence might be even better for independent reading.\" while Publishers Weekly found \"Bright, busy paintings and a sympathetic narrative depict canine-coveting May's solution to her parents' ban on pets.\" Books in Canada called it \"delightfully outrageous\".\n\nThe 2003 animated short based on the book was directed by Sheldon Cohen. Much of the animation and plot is faithful to Khalsa's original work. The songs in the film version are sung by indie singer-songwriter Neko Case.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306972", "title": "Rudolf Baumbach", "text": "Rudolf Baumbach\n\nRudolf Baumbach (28 September 1840 – 21 September 1905) was a German poet.\n\nBorn in Kranichfeld in Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach, the son of a local medical practitioner, he received his early schooling at the gymnasium of Meiningen, to which place his father had moved. After studying natural science at Leipzig as a member of the German Student Corps \"Thuringia\" and in various other universities, he engaged in private tuition, both independently and in families, in the Austrian towns of Graz, Brünn and Trieste.\n\nIn Trieste he caught the popular taste with an Alpine legend, \"Zlatorog\" (1877), and songs of a journeyman apprentice, \"Lieder eines fahrenden Gesellen\" (1878), both of which ran into many editions. Their success decided him to embark upon a literary career. In 1885, he returned to Meiningen, where he received the title of Hofrat, and was appointed ducal librarian. He remained in Meiningen for the twenty years until his death on 14 of September 1905.\n\nBaumbach was a poet of the breezy, vagabond school and wrote, in imitation of his greater compatriot, Joseph Viktor von Scheffel, many excellent drinking songs, among which \"Die Lindenwirtin\" (\"The Linden Hostess\") has endeared him to the German student world. But his real strength lay in narrative verse, especially when he had the opportunity of describing the scenery and life of his native Thuringia. Special mention may be made of \"Frau Holde\" (1881), \"Spielmannslieder\" (1882), \"Von der Landstraße\" (1882), \"Thüringer Lieder\" (1891) and his prose, \"Sommermärchen\" (\"Summer legends\", 1881).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306978", "title": "The Closer", "text": "The Closer\n\nThe Closer is an American television police procedural, starring Kyra Sedgwick as Brenda Leigh Johnson, a Los Angeles Police Department deputy chief. Originally a CIA-trained detective from Atlanta, Georgia, Brenda has a reputation as a closer—an interrogator who not only solves a case, but also obtains confessions that lead to convictions, thus \"closing\" the case. Deputy Chief Johnson sometimes uses deceit and intimidation to persuade a suspect to confess. The series ran on TNT from June 13, 2005, to August 13, 2012.\n\n\"The Closer\" was created by James Duff and the Shephard/Robin Company in association with Warner Bros. Television. On Monday, July 11, 2011, the series began its seventh and final season, having finished its sixth season as cable's highest-rated drama. \"The Closer\"s final six episodes began airing on Monday, July 9, 2012, with its finale airing on Monday, August 13, 2012. Following the finale, \"The Closer\"s spin-off, \"Major Crimes\", premiered.\n\nEach episode of \"The Closer\" deals with an aspect of the Los Angeles culture as it interfaces with law enforcement in the megacity. The show deals with complex and subtle issues of public policy, ethics, personal integrity, and questions of good and evil. The rather large character ensemble explores the human condition, touching on individual faiths, traditional religious influences in the lives and communities of contemporary society, and the breakdown and dysfunction of family systems, work teaming, and government responsibility. The first season began with Brenda Leigh Johnson arriving at the LAPD to lead the Priority Murder Squad (PMS), quickly renamed Priority Homicide Division (PHD), a team that originally dealt solely with high-profile murder cases (seasons one to four).\n\nDuring season four, an embarrassing tangle with the press, over just what were the criteria making a homicide a priority, allowed Brenda to manipulate circumstances so that the division was reorganized into a much larger major crimes division with a wider scope, though the majority of plots still involved and focused on homicides. Most importantly to the show's plot lines, Commander Taylor's role was also changed from \"rival and in-house adversary\" to that of \"unambiguously loyal subordinate\", so he was thereafter reporting directly to Deputy Chief Johnson and noticeably helpful as he coordinates interaction between the MCD and other units.\n\nSeason five introduced Mary McDonnell as Captain Sharon Raydor of the Force Investigations Division. Raydor and Johnson start out as rivals, but gradually they develop grudging respect for each other and form an uneasy alliance. McDonnell as Raydor went on to star in \"The Closer\"s spin-off, \"Major Crimes\".\n\nDuring the final season, Brenda finds herself in civil legal difficulties as a result of the events in \"War Zone\" (season six, episode eight), and the LAPD concludes that a disloyal subordinate must be generating information leaks from within MCD. Taylor and Raydor take an active role in attempting to combat the leaker, and the legal matters do not reach a final resolution until the series' end, in the episode \"The Last Word\".\n\nOn December 10, 2010, TNT announced that the seventh season of \"The Closer\", which began production in the spring of 2011, would be the last. The channel said that the decision to retire the show was made by Kyra Sedgwick. On January 30, 2011, the media announced that the final season would add six episodes to the usual 15-episode order, building toward the spin-off series, \"Major Crimes\".\n\nThe cast consists largely of an ensemble of detectives who make up the LAPD's fictional Major Crimes Division. It is led by Deputy Chief Brenda Leigh Johnson, played by Kyra Sedgwick. Some observers have noted strong similarities between Johnson and Jane Tennison, Helen Mirren's lead character in the British crime drama, \"Prime Suspect\", with an article in \"USA Today\" claiming \"The Closer\" to be \"an unofficial Americanization\" of the British drama. In interviews, Sedgwick has acknowledged that the show owes \"a debt\" to \"Prime Suspect\" and her admiration for that show and Mirren were factors that first interested her in the role.\n\nOther main characters include Johnson's superior officer, Assistant Chief Will Pope (J. K. Simmons), Robbery-Homicide Division Commander Russell Taylor (Robert Gossett), and her FBI agent boyfriend-then-husband Fritz Howard (Jon Tenney). The remainder of the cast makes up Brenda's squad, each with expertise in a specific area, such as crime-scene investigation or gang activity. The first and only departure from the regular cast occurred in season five, when actress Gina Ravera left and her character, Detective Irene Daniels, was transferred to another division.\n\nMary McDonnell, a recurring cast member in seasons five and six, joined the cast full-time for season seven, continuing her role as Captain Sharon Raydor.\n\n\nBoth gender researchers and members of the media have claimed that the series has \"expanded the vocabulary of what is acceptable for women as seen through the lens of popular culture.\"\n\n\"We've certainly seen women in powerful positions before,\" says author and gender researcher Maddy Dychtwald, pointing out Angie Dickinson in 1974's \"Police Woman\", and \"Cagney & Lacey\" from 1981. \"But those women were largely token in a sea of dominant males, and most important, strove to be like the men that surrounded them.\" In contrast, Dychtwald says the former CIA-trained interrogator and Atlanta police detective played by Kyra Sedgwick, \"retains (and revels in) her femininity, keeps her composure, can handle the two 'sexist pigs' who bait her due to their jealousy and insecurities, and not lose her head.\"\n\nMedia experts have also noted that the series has helped to redefine the place of basic cable channels alongside network programming:\n\nBeyond gently tweaking the popular image of women in power, \"The Closer\" has helped redefine the power balance between basic cable and broadcast networks, says Fordham University media expert Paul Levinson. Just glance at the equal number of recent Emmy nominations for basic and premium cable shows is confirmation, he adds. Beyond that, says \"More Magazine\" Entertainment Director Kathy Heintzelman, the off-season placement—the show launched in the summer and continues to air its seasons in counterbalance to the traditional network schedule—has helped redefine viewing habits. \"It's helped people get used to the idea that summer is a time to watch original series on televisions,\" she adds.\n\nThe debut of \"The Closer\" was seen by more than 7 million viewers according to Nielsen Media Research and was the top-rated premiere episode ever of any original scripted series on basic cable. The second- (8.28) and third-season (8.81) premieres broke the previous record. Viewer numbers (based on average total viewers per episode) of \"The Closer\" on TNT:\n\nAt the end of season three, \"The Closer\" became ad-supported cable's most-viewed scripted series of all time, ending the season with a live + same-day audience of 9.21 million viewers in 6.84 million households. The third-season finale holds the record for the largest live + 7-day audience for a single episode of an ad-supported cable series with 9.55 million viewers in 6.88 million households. Live + 7 day (DVR) data for the season reflect 30–40% audience growth in three key age-based demographic groups. Season four's premiere slipped slightly from the season-three opening, with live + same-day ratings showing a 3% decline in audience from the previous year's opener. For its Season Six premiere, on July 12, 2010, the show reached an estimated 7.66 million viewers.\n\nWarner Home Video has released all seven seasons of \"The Closer\" on DVD in Region 1.\n\nUntil the Primetime Emmy Awards in 2011, Kyra Sedgwick had made history as being the only actress in the history of television to be nominated for an Emmy, Golden Globe, and Screen Actors Guild award every year that the show aired in the eligibility period. \n\n\"The Closer\" is available to stream on WarnerMedia's HBO Max, which launched on May 27, 2020.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306982", "title": "Burlington, Newfoundland and Labrador", "text": "Burlington, Newfoundland and Labrador\n\nBurlington is an incorporated town in Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada. It is a small fishing and lumbering community on Route 413 at the north side of the mouth of Green Bay.\n\nBurlington was once named Northwest Arm, and was permanently settled in the mid-19th century. The community was renamed in the early part of 1915 due to a mix-up in the mail service. After many residents complained that their mail was sent to another community with a similar name, the town leaders felt the need to have a name change. Out of three separate entries, 'Burlington' was chosen.\n\nThere was no large industry in the 19th century. The early settlers fished for cod and cleared land to grow potatoes, cabbage and small fruits. Keeping animals provided meat for the winter and milk and butter in season. Settlers built their own boats for fishing in Labrador, or they were employed by the inshore fishery. When mines opened at Bett's Cove and at Tilt Cove some of the men went there to work.\n\nLogging pitprops for the United Kingdom were started in 1915 by John Jennings (contractor). This industry was closed in 1918 when the sale of pitprops ended. Lumber camps opened in 1920 but closed during the Depression of the 1930s. In 1935 the Thistle family started cutting export wood. They remained a major economic force in Burlington for approx. 30 years. Camps later opened for the cutting of pulpwood and continued for about ten years. In 1969 pulpwood was again the main industry, shipped out by truck from Burlington.\n\nBurlington and surrounding area has a distinct dialect that is still heard by many today, because of its English and Irish heritage.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306993", "title": "Cross of Merit (Polish Scouting and Guiding Association)", "text": "Cross of Merit (Polish Scouting and Guiding Association)\n\nThe Krzyż za Zasługi dla ZHP (\"Cross of Merit for the ZHP\") is the highest decoration of the Polish Scouting and Guiding Association (ZHP). The order is awarded to members of the ZHP for heroic acts. It was established on 1 July 1965. The Order has three classes:\n\n"}
{"id": "2306995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306995", "title": "Mike Quackenbush", "text": "Mike Quackenbush\n\nMichael Spillane (born March 18, 1976), is an American podcaster, author, professional wrestling trainer, professional wrestling promoter, and semi-retired professional wrestler, better known by his ring name Mike Quackenbush. \n\nHe has hosted several podcasts and video podcasts including \"The Grizzly Bear Egg Cafe\", \"Chikara Podcast-A-Go-Go\", \"Deep Blue Something\", \"The Trending Show\", \"Daddy on Board\", \"Kayfabe 2.0\", and \"Til We Make It\". He is also the sole content contributor to \"Quackenbush on Camelot\", a news resource for the goings-on at the dinner theater franchise Medieval Times and renaissance fairs. Quackenbush has written seven books including the two memoirs \"Headquarters\" (2001) and \"Secret Identity: Essays From Both My Lives\" (2004). Both memoirs were re-released as e-books for the Kindle in May 2010, and a few years later in 2017, he released \"7 Keys to Becoming a Better Performer: A Book for Fellow Pro-Wrestlers\". From 1998 to 2008, Quackenbush penned a regular column titled \"From Bell To Bell\" for \"The Wrestler\" magazine and \"The International Report\" for \"Pro Wrestling Illustrated\", among other publishing credits.\n\nIn wrestling, Quackenbush is well known for being the promoter of Chikara and head trainer of its Wrestle Factory, a promotion and school he co-founded in 2002 with Reckless Youth. Quackenbush is also noted for his 25 year in-ring career on the independent wrestling circuit, during which he became a former NWA World Junior Heavyweight Champion and CZW World Junior Heavyweight Champion. In 2016, \"Sports Illustrated\" included Quackenbush on their list of the Top 101 Wrestlers of All Time.\n\nQuackenbush began taking bookings for multiple local independent companies, including PCW and SCW in late 1998. Growing up, Quackenbush idolized Japanese professional wrestler Jushin Thunder Liger and adopted the nickname \"Lightning\" in tribute to him. Entering the business untrained, Quackenbush received training from wrestler Ace Darling, who took Quackenbush in as his protege. In 1999, he was ranked #128 by Pro Wrestling Illustrated in the annual PWI 500 as well as being named the June Flavour of the Month by the publication. Quackenbush eventually befriended independent wrestlers Reckless Youth and Don Montoya. They began teaming together as a trio, dubbed The Black T-Shirt Squad (abbreviated to The BTS), due to all three wearing black t-shirts in their wrestling attire, by fellow wrestlers, which eventually was used as their ring name. Quackenbush started taking most bookings with his fellow stablemates opposed to performing as a singles wrestler.\n\nQuackenbush first appeared in Combat Zone Wrestling (CZW) on June 19, 1999, at \"Down In Flames\", where he defeated Reckless Youth and Ric Blade in the opening three-way dance. On May 14, 2005, he won CZW's \"Best of the Best 5\" elimination tournament in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania after defeating Arik Cannon, Claudio Castagnoli, B-Boy, Kevin Steen and Super Dragon. He also held the CZW World Junior Heavyweight Championship twice.\n\nQuackenbush founded a professional wrestling school branded \"The Wrestle Factory\" in January 2002 along with Reckless Youth, where both men were appointed as head trainers for the school. They opened the promotion Chikara in May of the same year. At the inaugural show on May 25, 2002, Quackenbush teamed with fellow BTS stablemates Reckless Youth and Don Montoya in a match, where they defeated the Gold Bond Mafia (CM Punk, Colt Cabana and Chris Hero). On the last show of 2002 Quackenbush finished his first feud in Chikara, by pinning Mitch Ryder. The following year Quackenbush formed the SuperFriends tag team with Chris Hero and went the whole year undefeated. In 2004 Quackenbush teamed up with Team F.I.S.T. (Icarus and Gran Akuma) and started a feud with the Toxic Trio (Eddie Kingston, BlackJack Marciano and Jigsaw). The two teams faced each other on May 22, 2004, at \"Aniversario 3: Dodging the Sophomore Jinx\", where Quackenbush and F.I.S.T. were victorious and as per stipulation of the match, Kingston and Marciano were shaved bald. In the spring of 2004 Quackenbush started disappearing from Chikara shows, just as Larry Sweeney's Sweet 'n' Sour International rose to prominence. He returned on October 30 during the first annual \"torneo cibernetico\" match at \"The Cibernetico Cometh\" under a mask and the ringname Spyrazul as a member of the Sweet 'n' Sour International. However, at the end of the match Spyrazul attacked his own team mates, removed his mask and walked out on Sweeney, who ended up being pinned by Jigsaw to end the match.\n\nIn March 2005 the Chikara Wrestle Factory assumed control of the Combat Zone Wrestling wrestling school. Quackenbush served as head trainer of the joint facility for the two year duration, until the schools separated in March 2007. Quackenbush re-formed his SuperFriends tag team with Chris Hero and together the two of them entered the 2005 Tag World Grand Prix. They would make it to the finals of the tournament, where they were defeated by \"AC/CC\" (Arik Cannon and Claudio Castagnoli), after Hero turned on Quackenbush. Together Hero, Castagnoli and Cannon would form the highly successful stable and later tag team The Kings of Wrestling, with whom Quackenbush, Reckless Youth and Jigsaw would feud with the rest of the year.\n\nIn late 2005 Quackenbush suffered a career-threatening back injury. He would make his in-ring return on March 18, 2006, at a Westside Xtreme Wrestling event, where he defeated Ares for the wXw World Heavyweight Championship. In his Chikara return on March 31, he would drop the title back to Ares. He then recruited Jigsaw and Shane Storm to help him battle the Kings of Wrestling, who had replaced Arik Cannon with Quackenbush's former partners Team F.I.S.T. Quackenbush set his sights on Chris Hero and defeated Gran Akuma and Icarus with his new finishing maneuver Quackendriver III. At the conclusion of the year Quackenbush, Storm and Jigsaw saved Claudio Castagnoli from a beatdown at the hands of his Kings of Wrestling partners.\n2007 started with Quackenbush, Jigsaw and Storm defeating Team Canada (Jagged, Shane Matthews and Max Boyer), Team TNA (Alex Shelley, Chris Sabin and Sonjay Dutt), Team Mucha Lucha (Lince Dorado, El Pantera and Sicodelico, Jr.) and finally Miyawaki, Yoshiaki Yago and Kudo to win the inaugural King of Trios tournament. The following month on March 25 Claudio Castagnoli defeated Quackenbush to win the right to represent Chikara in the first ever King of Europe Cup. That same month \"Chikara Podcast–A–Go–Go\" was launched. The weekly video podcast debuts a new episode every Monday night and is available through iTunes, YouTube and other online outlets.\n\nOn April 22, 2007, Quackenbush refereed a match between former partners Chris Hero and Claudio Castagnoli and counted the pinfall that forced Castagnoli to re-join the Kings of Wrestling. The following month Quackenbush faced Hero in a match two years in the making and defeated him after debuting a new submission maneuver, the Chikara Special.\n\nFollowing the match, Quackenbush announced that since he knew Hero would never be able to break the Chikara Special, he would teach it and the counter to it to every \"tecnico\" wrestler on the Chikara roster. However, to Quackenbush's amazement it did not take long for Hero to break the hold and apply it himself in a match against Equinox. In order to find out who leaked the move, Quackenbush sent Tim Donst to infiltrate the \"rudo\" stable the Order of the Neo-Solar Temple, led by UltraMantis Black. Meanwhile, Quackenbush and Shane Storm gained three straight victories, which would give them the right to challenge for the Campeonatos de Parejas (Tag Team Championship), but on June 14, 2008, Donst returned from his assignment and informed Quackenbush that his partner Shane Storm had been the one who leaked the move to UltraMantis Black, who in turn taught it to Hero. Quackenbush attacked Storm, who would find new partners in Vin Gerard and Colin Delaney, while renaming himself Stigma.\nOn September 7, 2008, Jigsaw, who had unmasked himself while in Ring of Honor, returned to Chikara and saved Quackenbush and Donst from the UnStable. Quackenbush returned the favor the following month, but refused to re-form the team with Jigsaw until he put his mask back on. On December 14 at the season seven finale Quackenbush and Jigsaw, under a mask, defeated Stigma and Delaney in a tag team match. In early 2009 Quackenbush and Jigsaw gained three points, but were unable to defeat the Campeones de Parejas The Osirian Portal (Amasis and Ophidian) on April 25. After May's anniversary shows Quackenbush decided to take some time off from in-ring competition in order to heal his injured back.\n\nIn 2010 Quackenbush became embroiled in a feud with Bruderschaft des Kreuzes (BDK), who had formed on the final show of 2009 and were threatening to take over Chikara, with its members quickly winning the Young Lions Cup, Campeonatos de Parejas and King of Trios, while also having one of its members as the Chikara Director of Fun. After UltraMantis Black declared that \"rudos\" and \"tecnicos\" would have to come together in order to stop BDK, Quackenbush announced on August 11 that he would join his seven man team facing BDK in the annual \"torneo cibernetico\" match on October 23. After defeating The Young Bucks (Matt and Nick Jackson) and BDK members Lince Dorado and Pinkie Sanchez, Quackenbush and Jigsaw were looking to get a shot at BDK's Claudio Castagnoli and Ares and their Campeonatos de Parejas. However, on August 27 Quackenbush and Jigsaw failed in their attempt at getting a third point by losing to BDK members Daizee Haze and Sara Del Rey, after some shady officiating from the stable's own referee Derek Sabato. The following day Quackenbush and Jigsaw restarted their march towards three points by defeating the House of Truth (Josh Raymond and Christian Abel). On September 18 they picked up their second point by defeating BDK's Lince Dorado and Tim Donst. On October 23 Quackenbush represented Chikara in the \"torneo cibernetico\" match, where the company's originals faced BDK. He managed to eliminate Tim Donst from the match after countering his Inverted Chikara Special into the original Chikara Special, but was immediately afterwards eliminated himself by BDK's Claudio Castagnoli. The following day Quackenbush and Jigsaw once again failed in their attempt at getting their third point in a match against BDK members Pinkie Sanchez and Tursas. This failure led to Quackenbush's and Jigsaw's former partner Stigma reminding them that he and Quackenbush still had the three points they had earned two and a half years earlier, but Quackenbush made it clear that he wanted to win the \"Campeonatos de Parejas\" with Jigsaw, not Stigma. On November 22 Quackenbush and Jigsaw competed in a four–way elimination match with Sara Del Rey and Daizee Haze, The Osirian Portal and F.I.S.T. (Icarus and Chuck Taylor) and after eliminating all three teams, finally earned the three points needed in order to challenge for the \"Campeonatos de Parejas\". On December 12, 2010, at the season nine finale \"Reality is Relative\" Quackenbush and Jigsaw cashed in their points and defeated Ares and Castagnoli two falls to one to win the Campeonatos de Parejas for the first time. Quackenbush and Jigsaw made their first successful defense of the title on February 19, 2011, defeating The Batiri (Obariyon and Kodama). For the 2011 King of Trios, Quackenbush and Jigsaw formed a trio with Japanese \"joshi\" legend Manami Toyota, who had made her Chikara debut alongside Quackenbush the previous September, and on April 15 defeated Amazing Red, Joel Maximo and Wil Maximo in their first round match. The following day, the trio was eliminated from the tournament in the quarterfinal stage by Team Michinoku Pro (Dick Togo, Great Sasuke and Jinsei Shinzaki). On September 18, Quackenbush and Jigsaw lost the Campeonatos de Parejas to F.I.S.T. (Chuck Taylor and Johnny Gargano) in their third defense. From May to October 2011, Quackenbush took part in \"\", a tournament used to determine the first ever Chikara Grand Champion. Quackenbush ended up winning his block of the tournament with a record of four wins and one loss to set up a final match with the winner of the other block, Eddie Kingston. On November 13 at Chikara's first internet pay-per-view, High Noon, Quackenbush was defeated by Kingston in a match to determine the first Chikara Grand Champion.\nBeginning on February 26, 2012, Quackenbush began feuding with the new Gekido stable of 17, assailAnt, combatAnt, deviAnt and The Shard. assailAnt, combatAnt, deviAnt later revealed that they were former dropouts of the Chikara Wrestle Factory, while The Shard was a former training partner of Jigsaw and 17 revealed that he had modeled his career after Quackenbush's and claimed to be just as talented as him, but had never gotten recognized for it. The group announced that its intention was to expose Chikara's \"dark underbelly\". On June 2 at Chikara's second internet pay-per-view, , Quackenbush, Eddie Kingston, Jigsaw, Green Ant and Soldier Ant defeated Gekido in a ten man tag team match, after which Quackenbush grabbed 17's hand and broke his fingers, sidelining him for nine weeks. On August 18, Quackenbush and 17 faced off in a tag team match, where Quackenbush and Jigsaw faced 17 and The Shard. Quackenbush lost the match, being disqualified for \"excessive punishment\" after hitting 17 with all four versions of his \"Quackendriver\", ending 17's Chikara career in the process. Following the match, Jigsaw confronted Quackenbush about his new mean streak. Quackenbush later explained that he no longer needed to control his temper and play by the rules to maintain an image, since at High Noon Eddie Kingston had taken over his role as the face of Chikara. On September 14, Quackenbush entered the 2012 King of Trios, teaming with Jigsaw and Manami Toyota, just like the previous year. In their first round match, the trio defeated Gekido members combatAnt and deviAnt and Colony member Soldier Ant. After the match, Quackenbush continued his mean streak by attacking combatAnt, eliminating also him from Chikara. The following day, Quackenbush, Jigsaw and Toyota were eliminated from the tournament, after losing to Team Sendai Girls (Dash Chisako, Meiko Satomura and Sendai Sachiko). On November 18, Quackenbush set his sights on eliminating The Shard from Chikara, however, his attempt was stopped by Jigsaw, who superkicked his former Campeones de Parejas partner and then left the arena with The Shard. On December 2 at Chikara's third iPPV, Under the Hood, Quackenbush represented Chikara in an eight man tag team match, where they were defeated by Gekido, led by Jigsaw. Afterwards, Quackenbush made peace with assailAnt, who turned \"tecnico\" and jumped from Gekido to Chikara. On April 6, 2013, Quackenbush teamed with his idol Jushin Thunder Liger to defeat Jigsaw and The Shard in a main event tag team match. Following the event, Quackenbush took a hiatus from in-ring action to heal a tibia fracture suffered during the match and wrist and rib injuries suffered earlier. Quackenbush later claimed that he had no plans to return to the ring.\n\nWhen Chikara returned from its one-year hiatus on May 25, 2014, with the You Only Live Twice iPPV, Quackenbush was revealed as the promotion's new Director of Fun. In May 2016, Quackenbush announced he was coming out of his retirement to take on Johnny Kidd in what was billed as Kidd's retirement match on May 28. The match, contested in eight three-minute rounds, ended in a 1–1 draw. Quackenbush wrestled another match on December 3, 2016, losing to Drew Gulak in Gulak's Chikara farewell match. Quackenbush's next match took place on April 1, 2017, when he was defeated by Zack Sabre Jr. On September 2, Quackenbush defeated Johnny Kidd in a British Rules match.\n\nQuackenbush defeated Tiger Mask at the now defunct \"Fight Sports Midwest\", to capture the NWA World Junior Heavyweight Championship on May 11, 2007. Throughout the match, Quackenbush unlaced and loosened Tiger Mask's mask, a major sign of disrespect amongst masked wrestlers. In the finish of the match Quackenbush completely pulled off his opponent's mask and used the distraction to pin him for the title. In a promo after the match, Quackenbush explained that he did everything to get the NWA World Junior Heavyweight Championship and that he was, in no way, proud of it. He said he viewed the belt as his ticket to Japan, as Japanese promotions had not booked him in any events. He has since defended the title in Chikara against the likes of Black Tiger and Akira Raijin. On November 6, 2010, Quackenbush lost the title to Craig Classic at Pro Wrestling Fusion's \"November Coming Fire\" pay-per-view, ending his reign at 1,275 days, the second longest reign in the title's history.\n\nOn April 27, 2007, Quackenbush made his debut for Ring of Honor, at \"The Battle of Saint Paul\". Throughout the remainder of the year, he made multiple appearances, several times teaming with Jigsaw. He has competed against the likes of Claudio Castagnoli, Matt Sydal and Bryan Danielson. Although he did compete in one six man tag team match at Ring of Honor's \"Transform\" show on January 12, 2008, he did not compete in ROH again till March 2009 when he wrestled, and lost to, Bryan Danielson and Jerry Lynn in singles matches on March 20 and March 21, respectively.\n\nIn September 2007 Quackenbush won the 2007 Ted Petty Invitational held by Independent Wrestling Association Mid-South by defeating Billy Roc, Joey Ryan and Josh Abercrombie on his way to the finals where he eliminated both Claudio Castagnoli and Chuck Taylor to win the tournament. Quackenbush also captured the IWA Mid-South Heavyweight Championship. Quackenbush made his debut in Japan for Michinoku Pro, defeating Shibaten in the village of Takazawa. He wrestled for the same company, the next night, defeating Rei. In a four way elimination match against Chris Hero, Eddie Kingston and Chuck Taylor, Quackenbush put his IWA Mid-South Heavyweight Championship and IWA Mid-South Light Heavyweight Championship on the line. Quackenbush was pinned by Chuck Taylor, thus capturing the IWA Mid-South Light Heavyweight Championship. Eddie Kingston then pinned Quackenbush, capturing the IWA Mid-South Heavyweight Championship.\n\nOn July 25, 2009, Quackenbush appeared on Dragon Gate USA's first pay-per-view Enter the Dragon in an eight man tag team Chikara showcase match, where Quackenbush, Jigsaw, Fire Ant and Soldier Ant defeated Gran Akuma, Icarus, Amasis and Hallowicked. Following the match Quackenbush started a promo, which was interrupted by Yamato, who low-blowed him. Jigsaw and Gran Akuma ran to make the save, but Akuma turned on his fellow Chikara wrestlers and assisted Yamato in assaulting Quackenbush and Jigsaw. On September 6 at the second PPV titled Untouchable Quackenbush and Jigsaw defeated Yamato and Akuma. On November 28 at the third PPV Freedom Fight Quackenbush entered the tournament to crown the first Open the Freedom Gate Champion, but was eliminated in the first round in a four-way match with Jorge Rivera, Super Crazy and the winner of the match, Cima. On January 23, 2010, at the fourth PPV, Fearless, Quackenbush and Jigsaw defeated Cima and Super Crazy in a tag team match. At the two following shows, \"Open the Ultimate Gate\" and \"Mercury Rising\", on March 26 and 27, Quackenbush and Jigsaw lost to Genki Horiguchi and Susumu Yokosuka and defeated The Young Bucks (Matt and Nick Jackson) in tag team matches. On May 7 at \"Open the Northern Gate\" Quackenbush and Jigsaw defeated Kamikaze USA representatives Gran Akuma and Akira Tozawa in a tag team match and were then assaulted by their team mates Yamato and Shingo. At the following day's tapings of the \"Uprising\" pay-per-view, Quackenbush and Jigsaw were defeated by the team of Naruki Doi and PAC. After the match Quackenbush challenged Yamato to a tag team match, before he and Jigsaw were once again jumped by the members of Kamikaze USA. On July 24 at the tapings of the \"Enter the Dragon 2010\" pay–per–view, Quackenbush, Jigsaw and Hallowicked teamed up with the Open the Dream Gate Champion Masato Yoshino to defeat Kamikaze USA's Yamato, Gran Akuma, Akira Tozawa and Jon Moxley in an eight man elimination tag team match. On September 25 at \"Untouchable 2010\", Quackenbush competed in a three–way match, which was won by BxB Hulk and also included Akira Tozawa. The following day at \"Way of the Ronin\", Quackenbush wrestled in a six–way match, which was won by Brodie Lee. On February 21, 2011, Dragon Gate USA announced that Quackenbush had decided to disband the Chikara Sekigun stable and take a leave of absence from the promotion in order to concentrate on defending his newly won \"Campeonatos de Parejas\" in Chikara.\n\nOn February 8, 2016, Quackenbush began work for WWE as a guest trainer and coach at their Orlando, Florida-based Performance Center. His role expanded to include production consultation for WWE's developmental brand, NXT.\n\nIn November 2018, Quackenbush returned to WWE's Performance Center, training with injured wrestler Alexa Bliss.\n\nQuackenbush has toured Canada, Mexico and several European countries during his career. In 2004, he briefly united six championships from three different countries (USA, Mexico and Germany) into the \"I-Crown\". During his 2000 hiatus from wrestling, Quackenbush wrote his novel \"Headquarters\", produced a direct–to–video project called \"Crusaders\" and hosted an improv comedy show and jousting tournament. He returned to the ring in April 2000, after just two full months off.\n\nOn December 11, 2010, Quackenbush wrestled his idol Jushin Thunder Liger at a Jersey All Pro Wrestling event. In the end, Liger defeated Quackenbush to retain his JAPW Light Heavyweight Championship.\n\nOn February 2, 2013, at the inaugural National Pro Wrestling Day event, Quackenbush wrestled Colt Cabana on the afternoon show in a losing effort.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306998", "title": "Æon Group", "text": "Æon Group\n\nIn 2011 it reported revenue of 1.2 trillion yen for the preceding year.\n\nAeon sells chocolate bearing the Fair Trade label under its Top Value brand.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307010", "title": "Breyton Paulse", "text": "Breyton Paulse\n\nBreyton Paulse (born 25 April 1976 in De Keur, Koue Bokkeveld) is a South African former rugby union player who played on the wing for the national team, the Springboks, from 1999 to 2007.\n\nBy the time Paulse was entering secondary school, apartheid was being dismantled, meaning that his status as Coloured would have no effect on his rugby aspirations. However, his size proved to be a major concern; at his adult size of 1.78 m, 80 kg (5'10\", 180 lb), he was thought to be too small to play top-flight rugby. Despite his size, his tremendous speed (he was a former South Africa Schools champion at 200 and 400 m) ensured that he would receive a serious look from selectors at all levels.\n\nPaulse garnered attention almost from the start of his top-flight rugby career with a hat-trick of tries in his first Currie Cup match in 1996, and eventually made his first Springboks appearance in 1999. In his first appearance for the Springboks against Italy, he scored a hat-trick. After scoring his third try that day, he performed his trademark \"flick flack\", a cartwheel followed by a back flip, which continued to perform after particularly special tries.\n\nAs of 7 August 2005, he has amassed 54 appearances for the Springboks, placing him in the top seven all-time for Springboks caps, and scored 22 tries. Perhaps his most notable Springboks match was a two-try performance against Australia in the 2002 Tri Nations. In the Currie Cup, playing mainly for Western Province, he has averaged nearly a try a match.\n\nPaulse moved to France for the 2005–2006 season and played for Clermont Auvergne in the Top 14. He remained eligible for Springboks selection, as SA Rugby abandoned its past policy of requiring that Springbok players play domestic rugby in South Africa. Springboks coach Jake White indeed selected him for the 2005 Tri Nations, and started him in South Africa's first three matches. Paulse scored an important try in South Africa's series-opening 22–16 win over Australia. However, in the Springboks' third match (against Australia), Paulse received a three-week suspension for kicking Australian prop Al Baxter.\n\nIn the seasons of 1997 and 1998, Paulse was predominantly playing fullback. Paulse became comfortable at wing and developed into a fine player, using his blistering pace to score many tries.\n\nIn the end of 2006, Paulse was picked by the Stormers franchise to be part of their team for the 2007 Super 14 where he strengthened his chances to once again don the Springboks colors.\n\nHe was selected for the squad that was present at the 2003 Rugby World Cup finals, but was only selected to the 2007 Rugby World Cup finals, as a reserve player.\n\nOn his retirement from the national side, Paulse had put in 64 tests and 10 tour matches for the Springboks and scored 26 tries. His last appearance in the green and gold was against New Zealand at Christchurch in 2007 at the age of 31.\n\nPaulse began what has become a trend when he took up mountain biking after retiring from international sport and completed the Absa Cape Epic in 2009. Paulse completed the Untamed African MTB Race as an individual finisher after his partner and local pro, Linus van Onselen, withdrew from the race.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307016", "title": "European Juggling Convention", "text": "European Juggling Convention\n\nThe European Juggling Convention (EJC), is the largest juggling convention in the world, regularly attracting several thousand participants. It is held every year in a different European country. It is organised by changing local organisation committees which are supported by the European Juggling Association (EJA), a non-profit association founded in 1987 in Saintes, France. Like most juggling conventions, it features a mix of workshops for jugglers, a \"renegade\" performance performed for participants, games, performances and a public show, usually spread out over a period of a week in the European summer. Accommodation is usually in the form of tents provided by participants.\n\nThe first EJC was inspired by the IJA Festival and organised by jugglers who didn't want to travel to the USA. The IJA helped by giving the organisers a list (known as the roster) of IJA members living in Europe. It was also known as the \"first European IJA mini-convention\" and had an attendance of 11 jugglers from 5 countries. EJC has now grown much bigger than its inspiration and has much less focus on competitive juggling, but is more about the sharing of juggling.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307024", "title": "2005 in birding and ornithology", "text": "2005 in birding and ornithology\n\nThe year 2005 in birding and ornithology.\n\nSee Bird species new to science described in the 2000s.\n\nIn April, an announcement is made that the ivory-billed woodpecker has been rediscovered in North America; in July, doubt is cast on this claim. The debate remains unresolved.\n\nThe thick-billed ground-dove (\"Gallicolumba salamonis\"), last seen in 1927, is officially declared extinct.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307026", "title": "India Office", "text": "India Office\n\nThe India Office was a British government department established in London in 1858 to oversee the administration, through a Viceroy and other officials, of the Provinces of British India. These territories comprised most of the modern-day nations of Bangladesh, Burma, India, and Pakistan, as well as Aden and other territories around the Indian Ocean. The department was headed by the Secretary of State for India, a member of the British cabinet, who was formally advised by the Council of India.\n\nUpon the partition of British India in 1947 into the two new independent dominions of India and Pakistan, the India Office was closed down. Responsibility for the United Kingdom's relations with the two new countries was transferred to the Commonwealth Relations Office (formerly the Dominions Office).\n\nThe East India Company was established in 1600 as a joint-stock company of English merchants who received, by a series of charters, exclusive rights to English trade with the \"Indies\", defined as the lands lying between the Cape of Good Hope and the Straits of Magellan; the term \"India\" had been derived from the name of the Indus River, long important to commerce and civilisation in the region. The Company soon established a network of \"factories\" throughout the south and east Indies in Asia. Over a period of 250 years the Company underwent several substantial changes in its basic character and functions.\n\nA period of rivalry between the Old and New Companies after 1698 resulted in the formation in 1709 of the United Company of Merchants Trading to the East Indies. This 'new' East India Company was transformed during the second half of the 18th century from a mainly commercial body with scattered Asian trading interests into a major territorial power in South Asia with its headquarters in Bengal, present day state of West Bengal of India and Bangladesh. The political implications of this development eventually caused the British government in 1784 to institute standing Commissioners (the Board of Control) in London to exercise supervision over the Company's Indian policies.\n\nThis change in the Company's status, along with other factors, led to the Acts of Parliament of 1813 and 1833, which opened British trade with the East Indies to all shipping and resulted in the Company's complete withdrawal from its commercial functions. The Company continued to exercise responsibility, under the supervision of the Board, for the government of British India until the re-organisation of 1858.\n\nThroughout most of these changes the basic structure of Company organisation in East India House in the City of London remained largely unaltered, comprising a large body of proprietors or shareholders and an elected Court of Directors, headed by a chairman and deputy chairman who, aided by permanent officials, were responsible for the daily conduct of Company business. The Board of Control maintained its separate office close to the Government buildings in Westminster.\n\nWith the Government of India Act 1858, the Company and the Board of Control of the East India Companies were replaced by a single new department of state in London, the India Office, which functioned, under the Secretary of State for India, as an executive office of United Kingdom government alongside the Foreign Office, Colonial Office, Home Office and War Office.\n\nThe Secretary of State for India was assisted by a statutory body of advisers, the Council of India, and headed a staff of civil servants organised into a system of departments largely taken over from the East India Company and Board of Control establishments, and housed in a new India Office building in Whitehall. The Secretary of State for India inherited all the executive functions previously carried out by the Company, and all the powers of 'superintendence, direction and control' over the British provincial administrations in South Asia previously exercised by the Board of Control. Improved communications with South Asia – the overland and submarine telegraph cables (1868–70), and the opening of the Suez Canal (1869) – rendered this control, exercised through the Viceroy and provincial Governors covering large areas in the regions of Asia, Africa and the Middle East, more effective in the last quarter of the nineteenth century. It was only with the constitutional reforms initiated during the First World War, and carried forward by the India Acts of 1919 and 1935, that there came about a significant relaxation of India Office supervision over the Government of British India, and with it, in South Asia, a gradual devolution of authority to legislative bodies and local governments. The same administrative reforms also led in 1937 to the separation of Burma from rest of South Asia and the creation in London of the Burma Office, separate from the India Office though sharing the same Secretary of State and located in the same building. With the gradual events and establishments of sovereign independent nations and the final grant of independence to present-day India and Pakistan in 1947, and to present-day Myanmar in 1948, both the India Office and the Burma Office were officially dissolved.\n\nAs a result of the widespread involvement in the external relations and defence policy of pre-1947 African, Asian and Middle Eastern countries, the India Office was also responsible for particular neighbouring or connected areas at different times. Among the most significant of these are:\n\nOther groups of involvement have also resulted from India Office interest in the status of Indian emigrants to the West Indies, south and east Africa, and Fiji.\n\nThe India Office had its offices in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office Main Building in Whitehall.\n\nThe India Office Records are the repository of the archives of the East India Company (1600–1858), the Board of Control or Board of Commissioners for the Affairs of British India (1784–1858), the India Office (1858–1947), the Burma Office (1937–1948), and a number of related British agencies overseas which were officially linked with one or other of the four main bodies. The focus of the India Office Records is in the territories mainly that today include Central Asia, the Middle East, regions of Africa, South Asia, Southeast Asia and their administration before 1947. The official archives of the India Office Records are complemented by over 300 collections and over 3,000 smaller deposits of Private Papers relating to the British experience in India.\n\nThe India Office Records, previously housed in the India Office Library, are now administered as part of the Asia, Pacific and Africa Collections of the British Library, London as part of the Public Records of the United Kingdom, and are open for public consultation. The comprise 14 kilometres of shelves of volumes, files and boxes of papers, together with 70,000 volumes of official publications and 105,000 manuscript and printed maps.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307030", "title": "Inuyasha: The Secret of the Cursed Mask", "text": "Inuyasha: The Secret of the Cursed Mask\n\nInuyasha: The Secret of the Cursed Mask, known in Japan as , is a role-playing video game for the PlayStation 2 based on the manga and anime series \"Inuyasha\". The player is able to choose to play as a female named Kaname Kururugi or as a male called Michiru Kururugi. Regardless of the chosen gender, the character is referred to using the last name Kururugi. However, in the North American release, the character is referred to using his/her first name (any sentences containing the player's name has no voiceover).\n\nThe game begins when Kururugi enters the family storage shed in modern-day Japan to retrieve an item for father. After falling through a mysteriously etched pentagram on the floorboards, the player is transported to Feudal Japan. Unfortunately, the villagers mistake the time traveler as a demon and attack. After several close calls, Kururugi comes face to face with InuYasha, who notices the stranger's clothes \"look like Kagome's.\"\n\nAfter introductions with the rest of the cast, the player begins to search for answers as to why Kururugi has been brought back to the feudal era and how to get home. The game progresses as any normal InuYasha storyline, with the InuYasha group travelling from village to village in pursuit of Naraku (and Kururugi's answers), sometimes helping out with a local problem or two. Occasionally traces to Naraku himself are revealed, as well as leads to Kururugi's mystery and the title's \"cursed mask,\" which holds secrets to returning the character to the present. Along the way, Kururugi learns to harness the power of shikigami from a mysterious old villager called Kakuju, a force needed in order to help InuYasha and the others overcome the dangerous obstacles ahead while unraveling the plot of the mystic Utsugi.\n\nSeveral beloved characters from the anime appear to help, or hinder, the group's progress, including Kikyo, Kagura, Koga and Sesshomaru.\n\nIn the end, Utsugi is revealed to be a Hitogata in the image of Kakuju's deceased spouse; Utsugi summoned Kururugi to the past to steal his/her descendant's soul in order to become human and live with Kakuju again. However, Naraku ends up possessing Utsugi for the power of Shikigami. After a long battle, Naraku is sent to hell and Utsugi dies happy, having unknowingly taken Kakuju's soul and became human. With Utsugi's magic gone, Kururugi is sent back to the present, where it is revealed the festival at the shrine is based on Kururugi's adventure. Kururugi thinks of the member of Inuyasha's group the player spent the most time with.\n\nVoiced by: Takashi Kondō (Japanese), Sean Broadhurst (English)\nVoiced by: Ryōko Nagata (Japanese), Carol-Anne Day(English)\n\n\n\n\nThe chosen gender of the main character has several subtle but interesting changes on the overall flow of the game. While the core plot remains the same regardless of Kururugi being a boy or girl, the later character responses, interval events, and battle abilities can change dramatically depending upon whether Kururgi is male or female. For example, when the female Kururugi first encounters Miroku in the game, the lecherous monk greets her with his typical, \"Would you bear my child?\" The male Kururugi, naturally, gets no such offer.\n\nWhat choices are made on the part of the player to interact with the InuYasha universe will also influence the strength of partnerships in battle and result in different character-centric anime sequences at the end of the game.\n\nEvery so often, players will receive an opportunity to \"rest up\" the InuYasha gang before setting off for a new location. If the player opts to take these breaks, short interval scenes will occur in which the main character can interact one-on-one with a member of the group. Choosing between InuYasha, Kagome, Miroku, Sango or Shippo will result in several different scenes, which vary in tone; the episodes begin as playful incidents and develop into deep and dramatic scenes later in the game. The more often a specific character is chosen, the stronger the player's friendship will become with that character, thus increasing the effectiveness of pairing with that character in Co-Op Technique battle; if the player opts to skip these interval events, the only penalty is a slower acquisition of Co-Op techniques.\n\nAn interesting fan service aspect of this relationship-building is that Kururugi will become \"strong friends\" with whichever of the InuYasha group he or she has spent the most time with. When paired with the opposite sex, love triangles begin to form between the canon pairings and the player character. For example, if the male Kururugi spends a majority of his interval events bonding with Kagome, InuYasha will grow increasingly jealous (or vice versa), or if the female Kururugi spends a majority of her interval events bonding with Miroku, Sango will get jealous. Also, there is a chance for the female Kururugi to be paired with Sesshomaru. This is achieved when the player gets the female character in some of the areas where Sesshomaru is. No negative impacts occur to the canon pairings if Shippo is the one the player becomes closest to, given that both Michiru and Kaname consider him a little brother.\n\nThe game received \"mixed\" reviews according to video game review aggregator Metacritic. In Japan, \"Famitsu\" gave it a score of one seven, one six, one five, and one six, for a total of 24 out of 40.\n\n"}
{"id": "2307034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307034", "title": "Kingsley Dunham", "text": "Kingsley Dunham\n\nSir Kingsley Charles Dunham (2 January 1910 – 5 April 2001) was one of the leading British geologists and mineralogists of the 20th century. He was a Professor of Geology at the University of Durham from 1950-71. He was later Professor Emeritus from 1967-2001. He was director of the British Geological Survey from 1967-75.\n\nDunham was born in Sturminster Newton, Dorset and moved at an early age with his family to Durham. He attended the Durham Johnston School (then a Grammar School) and then won a Foundation Scholarship to Hatfield College, Durham, graduating with a first-class degree in Geology in 1930 at a time when Arthur Holmes was professor. A gifted musician, Dunham was Organ Scholar during his undergraduate days. Following graduation, he pursued research into the Pennine Orefield of the North of England, under the supervision of Arthur Holmes. He graduated with a PhD in 1932 on the subject of Ore deposits of the north Pennines.\n\nDunham studied at Harvard University under a Commonwealth Fund Fellowship, which led to a master's degree. He returned to the UK as a geologist for the British Geological Survey, working on the iron ores of Cumbria. This came in useful during the Second World War where he was involved in the investigation of the mineral resources of the North of England. This work was later published in the classic volume, \"The Geology of the North Pennine Orefield\".\n\nDunham returned to Durham University in 1950 as Professor of Geology. During his tenure he supervised the drilling of the Rookhope borehole discovering, as predicted by his colleague Martin Bott, the presence of a concealed granite underlying the Pennines.\n\nHe was created a Fellow of St John's College, Durham.\n\nIn 1967 his career culminated in accepting the directorship of the British Geological Survey, and like his time at Durham, successfully guided that institution through a period of rapid growth into areas such as geophysics, oceanography and geochemistry. He was knighted in 1972.\n\nFollowing retirement in 1975, Dunham again returned to Durham as Emeritus Professor, publishing further work on the mineralogy of the North of England.\n\nKingsley Dunham received many honours. He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1955 (and also served on its council) and received its Royal Medal in 1970. He was President of the Yorkshire Geological Society between 1958–59, and was awarded the Sorby Medal of that Society in 1963. In 1973 he gave the presidential address to the British Association meeting in Canterbury. Dunham also received honorary doctorates from more than ten universities, both at home and abroad. He was awarded the Wollaston Medal of the Geological Society of London in 1976.\n\nBetween 1990 and 2012 the British Geological Survey's headquarters complex, in Keyworth, Nottinghamshire, was named the \"Kingsley Dunham Centre\" in his honour (It is now the Environmental Science Centre). The relocation and consolidation of the BGS's various, disparate branches to the Keyworth site was one of the lasting legacies of Dunham's time as Director. The Centre opened in 1976, shortly after Dunham's retirement.\n\nIn his later years his eyesight failed him until he was totally blind. However he still attended the weekly Durham meetings (aided by his friend and colleague Dr Tony Johnson), held by the Arthur Holmes society.\n\nHis son Ansel, who predeceased him, was Professor of Geology at the University of Hull and the University of Leicester.\n\n"}
{"id": "2307042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307042", "title": "Turkcell", "text": "Turkcell\n\nTurkcell İletişim Hizmetleri A.Ş. (, ) is the leading mobile phone operator of Turkey, based in Istanbul. The company has 34.4 million subscribers as of September 30, 2011. In 2015, the company's number of subscribers climbed to 68.9 million, in nine countries Largest shareholder is Telia Finland Oyj with 51% ownership. It is one of the world's biggest companies (Fortune 2000) list published by \"Fortune\".\n\nIn February 1994, Turkcell started Turkey's first GSM network. In Q3 2012, it had a market share of 52,4%. Its competitors were Vodafone with a market share of 27,9% and Avea with a market share of 19,7%.\n\nTurkcell is the first Turkish company to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange, where its shares have been traded since July 11, 2000 along with trading on the Istanbul Stock Exchange.\n\nTurkcell's shareholder structure is as follows: 51% is held by Turkcell Holding A.Ş., 0.05% by Çukurova Holding A.Ş., 13.07% by Sonera Holding B.V., 1.18% by MV Holding A.Ş., and the free float is 34.7%. As of December 2011, Sonera Holding and Cukurova Group, directly and indirectly, own approximately 37.1% and 13.8%, respectively of Turkcell's share capital. Çukurova Group agreed to sell a large stake to TeliaSonera in March 2005. They have since then been debating whether this agreement is binding. In August 2009 the International Chamber of Commerce issued an award stating that Çukurova must deliver all the remaining shares in Turkcell Holding to TeliaSonera.\n\nTurkcell also provides GSM services internationally. It has 9.6 million subscribers via Fintur Holdings and its affiliates in partnership with TeliaSonera in Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Georgia and Moldova, as of September 30, 2007. Turkcell's Ukrainian wholly owned business Astelit has 13.6 million subscribers. In 2009 they were the first company to get 3G services for their customers in Turkey.\n\nTurkcell provides coverage of an area that, as of March 31, 2007, includes 100% of the population living in cities of 3,000 or more people, 97.21% of the total population, and 80.44% of Turkey's land area. The company has a few blind spots, especially in mountainous areas in the Eastern region.\n\nTurkcell also operates overseas. Its Northern Cyprus brand is known as Kuzey Kıbrıs Turkcell (North Cyprus Turkcell) which operates in the Northern Cyprus only. KKTcell runs completely separately from Turkey's Turkcell, although the ownership of the network is the same. KKTcell is also the North's largest Network Provider at the moment, in terms of registered users and network coverage. KKTcell numbers can be distinguished from Mainland Turkey Turkcell numbers easily, as KKTcell numbers begin with 90 (533) 8XX-XXXX.\n\nTurkcell has international roaming agreements with 605 operators in 201 countries as of September, 2008. It claims to have more international GPRS roaming agreements than any other operator (356 operators in 143 countries as of August 31, 2008). It also applies discounted roaming costs when calling from a Turkcell mobile to a KKTurkcell number.\n\nTurkcell has been the \"Official Communication Sponsor\" of the national football and basketball teams since 2002. It also sponsors 14 of the 18 football teams in the Turkish Super League. The \"Turkcell Football Awards\" project was initiated in 2003 to encourage \"fair play\" by awarding athletes who show fairness, impartiality, and solidarity.\n\nTurkcell also sponsors the Istanbul International Film Festival and co-sponsors the Istanbul International Jazz Festival. Since 1999, Turkcell has supported the restoration of the ancient city walls in Bodrum. The last phase of the project, the restoration of an ancient theater, was completed in June 2003.\n\nTurkcell has also continued to sponsor the CeBIT Bilişim Eurasia event, one of the major information technology fairs in Europe, for the tenth time in 2007.\n\nTurkcell's main educational project, \"Modern Girls of Modern Turkey\", which started in 2000, grants scholarships to 5,000 young women in less developed parts of the country. The project received international recognition in June 2001, when it won the UK \"Institute of Public Relations Excellence Award\" and the \"Crystal Obelisk Award\" from the Foundation of Women Executives in Public Relations in New York City in 2002.\n\nTurkcell Superonline, one of Turkcell's subsidiaries and a major ISP in Turkey, has been criticized for injecting advertisements. The company has not responded to the questions about the injections. This event was described as the first evidence of traffic monitoring and manipulation in Turkey with deep packet inspection.\n\nIn May 2013, Turkcell dropped its multibillion-dollar US lawsuit against MTN Group, citing a US Supreme Court ruling that hurt its case. The operator filed a $4.2 billion lawsuit in Washington in 2012 alleging the company used bribery to win a mobile license in Iran that was first awarded to Turkcell. The court delayed the case in October 2012 pending a US Supreme Court decision on the Alien Tort Statute, the U.S. human rights law on which Turkcell's suit is based.\n\n"}
{"id": "2307047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307047", "title": "Gwilym Puw", "text": "Gwilym Puw\n\nCaptain Gwilym Puw (sometimes anglicised as William Pugh) (c. 1618 – c. 1689) was a Welsh Catholic poet and Royalist officer and a member of a prominent Recusant family from the Creuddyn in north Wales.\n\nHe was a prolific author of Welsh language poems, mainly in defence of the Catholic faith. He also translated Catholic liturgical works from the Latin to his native Welsh.\n\nIn 1648 he composed a Welsh poem in which loyalty to the king is combined with devotion to the Roman Catholic Church. He begins by saying that the political evils afflicting Britain are God's punishment for the abandonment of the \"true religion\". People were far happier, he proceeds, when the 'Old Faith' prevailed. But a better time is coming. The English Roundheads will be made square by a crushing defeat, and the king will return \"under a golden veil\"; the Mass shall be sung once more, and a bishop shall elevate the host. Here we have evidently a mystical allusion to the King of Kings on His throne in the tabernacle, and this is the theme underlying the whole poem.\n"}
{"id": "2307048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307048", "title": "Panorama in Interlingua", "text": "Panorama in Interlingua\n\nPanorama in Interlingua is the primary periodical for the language Interlingua, published bimonthly. It was first issued in January 1988. The magazine is based in Odense, Denmark, and is written completely in Interlingua and the activities of the Union Mundial pro Interlingua (UMI) appear in each issue, but the content is not necessarily about the language itself. Thomas Breinstrup, the editor in chief, is considered a leader of Interlingua style. \n\nThe stated aim of the publication is to carry:\n\n"}
{"id": "2307052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307052", "title": "Mitsunari Kanai", "text": "Mitsunari Kanai\n\nMitsunari Kanai (1939–2004) was an aikido and iaido teacher born in Japan, who spent most of his teaching career in the United States. He was an 8th dan teacher with the title shihan in the organisation Aikikai.\n\nKanai Sensei was one of the last group of students of the founder of aikido, Morihei Ueshiba, entering the Hombu Dojo in 1958 as an uchi-deshi. He moved to the United States in 1966 as a 4th dan and subsequently founded the New England Aikikai, currently located off Porter Square in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Kanai was instrumental in the early development of aikido in the United States and Canada, and taught seminars widely throughout the United States, Canada and Europe. He was one of the founders and a Technical Director of both the United States Aikido Federation (USAF) and the CAF.\n\nKanai Sensei was also skilled in iaido and subsequently taught this art to his senior students, many of whom hold dan rank in both iaido and aikido. He was also highly respected for his metalworking skills and deep historical knowledge of the Japanese sword, the katana, serving at times as a specialist advisor to the East Asian Collection at the nearby Museum of Fine Arts, Boston.\n\nIn the Boston area, senior students of Kanai Sensei continue to operate New England Aikikai, as well as Framingham Aikikai, Boston Aikikai, and Aikido Tekkojuku of Boston. His students also run university aikido clubs at Harvard University, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and Tufts University. Beyond Boston, his students lead dojos in many cities across the US and Canada, including Providence, Rhode Island, Portland, Maine, Portland, Oregon, Toronto, North Vancouver and Montreal.\n\n\nOther USAF Shihan:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307056", "title": "Türk Telekom", "text": "Türk Telekom\n\nTürk Telekom is the formerly state-owned Turkish telecommunications company. Türk Telekom was separated from Turkish Post (PTT) in 1995.\n\nTürk Telekom Group provides integrated telecommunication services from PSTN, GSM to wide-band Internet. The Türk Telekom Group companies had 16.8 million PSTN customers, 6 million ADSL customers and 12.1 million GSM customers as of September 30, 2009. With its network substructure covering the whole country, the group's companies offer a wide range of services to personal and corporate customers. Türk Telekom, which owns 99.9% of the shares of the companies TTNET, Argela, Innova, Sebit A.Ş. and AssisTT, is also the owner of 81% of the shares of Avea, which is one of the three GSM operators in Turkey. Türk Telekom also supports Albania's Albtelecom. 55% of the shares of Turk Telekom belongs to Levent Yapılandırma Yönetimi A.Ş. and 30% of the shares belongs to Turkey's Undersecretariat of Treasury. The remaining 15% of shares have been offered to the public.\n\nIn July 2018, in the course of the Turkish currency and debt crisis, Turkish and international banks took control of Türk Telekom due to billions of dollars in unpaid debt. Creditors set up a special purpose vehicle to acquire the company as they try to resolve Turkey's biggest-ever debt default.\n\nThe company holds the naming rights to Türk Telekom Arena, home to the Galatasaray S.K.\n\n\nTTNET is Turkey's leading Internet service provider and the only company to offer so-called \"quadruple play\" services (i.e., Internet, TV, voice, and 3G in one). The 2013 Annual Report states that TTNET has 6.3 million subscribers, 620,000 fiber subscribers, and 1.8 million TV subscribers.\n\nIt provides ADSL, dial-up, Wi-Fi, G.SHDSL, ATM, frame relay, and Metro Ethernet Internet access services to corporate and personal customers in 81 cities in Turkey. TTNET became the first Turkish company to be accepted into the United Nations' \"Business Call to Action (BCtA)\" program, which seeks to encourage companies to \"develop inclusive business models that offer the potential for both commercial success and development impact\", for its \"Internet 4All initiative\".\n\nInnova Bilişim Çözümleri A.Ş. delivers \"solutions\" to the institutions in every area, including distribution, finance, and telecommunications. With its services independent from the product and the brand, iNNOVA includes the entire consultancy-design-application development-integration-maintenance value chain.\n\nAssisTT is a customer services and call center company that also provides sales and marketing data. Türk Telekom holds a 100% interest in AssisTT, which was established in November 2007. According to the 2013 Annual Report, as of the end of 2013, there were 115 million incoming calls (an 11% annual increase), which generated 360 million minutes of service time (a 13% annual increase).\n\nAssisTT is Turkey's largest call center and provides its services to other corporations and institutions in addition to its parent company Türk Telekom.\n\nArgela Software and Information Technologies sells technologies and services for the telecom operators. The 100% of the shares of the company, which had started its activities in 2004, belong to Turk Telekomunikasyon A.S., one of the most important operators in the world. Today, Argela products still are being used by many important operators in six countries. Argela's headquarters are in Istanbul, and has branch offices in Ankara as well as Sunnyvale, California, in the United States.\n\nIn 2013, Argela for the first time entered into an industry other than telecommunications by being selected to carry out 4G/LTE Communication System Development (ULAK) Project of Undersecretariat of Defense Industry. In the context of this project, Argela cooperated with Aselsan and Netaş to domestically develop all hardware and software components of base stations with 4G technology.\n\nAVEA, the sole GSM-1800 mobile operator of Turkey, was founded in 2004. Avea, the youngest operator of Turkey, has a nationwide customer base of more than 12.5 million. Offering services to 95.4% of Turkey's population through its next-generation network, the company is growing fast both in the corporate and individual services with the brand \"Avea\" and constantly investing in technology and infrastructure as well as in its management and 1,981 employees. Having roaming agreements with 516 operators in 189 countries, the company continues to expand its roaming partnerships.\nThe AVEA brand merged Turk Telekom in 2016\n\nThe activities of SEBIT Eğitim ve Bilgi Teknolojileri A.Ş. had started in 1988, in a multimedia laboratory founded within Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Council (TÜBİTAK). The lab was privatized in 1996 and the production of computer supported education contents towards K-12 level. After the product “Akademedia” produced in 1998, Educational software with the brand “Vitamin” had been introduced. In the following years, “KidsPlus” products had joined the series. The company has a place in Chinese, Malaysian, American, and British markets by its unique products in K-12 level.\n\nPlus, it has been conducting the only integrated R&D project in the education area of the European Union’s 6th Framework Program. Active in corporate education, it has developed e-learning solutions for the institutions such as IES, Union of Banks of Turkey, Secretariat of Defense Industries, Public Procurement Agency, Coca-Cola, Migros, Siemens, and TTNET.\n\nCETEL was incorporated by Çalık Enerji and Türk Telekom having 80% and 20% shares, respectively, on 1 June 2007. CETEL purchased the 76% shares of Albtelecom on 1 October 2007. Albtelecom is the incumbent fixed-line operator in Albania which also has a GSM license. Cetel was incorporated as a special purpose entity in order to acquire the 76% shares of Albtecom Sh.A, which is located Albania and operates in telecommunication industry.\n\nCitizen Lab has found out that a series of middleboxes on Türk Telekom’s network were being used to redirect hundreds of users attempting to download certain legitimate programs to versions of those programs bundled with spyware. The spyware Citizen Lab found bundled by operators was similar to that used in the StrongPity APT attacks. Before switching to the StrongPity spyware, the operators of the Turkey injection used the FinFisher “lawful intercept” spyware, which FinFisher asserts is sold only to government entities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307063", "title": "Charles Tilstone Beke", "text": "Charles Tilstone Beke\n\nCharles Tilstone Beke (10 October 1800 – 31 July 1874) was an English traveller, geographer and Biblical critic.\n\nBorn in Stepney, London, the son of a merchant in the City of London, for a few years Beke engaged in mercantile pursuits. He later studied law at Lincoln's Inn, and for a time practised at the Bar, but finally devoted himself to the study of historical, geographical and ethnographical subjects. \n\nThe first fruits of Beke's researches appeared in his work \"Origines Biblicae\" or \"Researches in Primeval History\", published in 1834. An attempt to reconstruct the early history of the human race from geological data, it raised a storm of opposition on the part of defenders of the traditional readings of the Book of Genesis; but in recognition of the value of the work the University of Tübingen conferred upon him the degree of PhD.\n\nBetween 1837 and 1838, Beke held the post of acting British consul in Saxony. From that time until his death, his attention was largely given to geographical studies, chiefly of the Nile valley. Aided by private friends, he visited Ethiopia in connection with the mission to Shewa sent by the Indian government under the leadership of Major (afterwards Sir) William Cornwallis Harris, and explored Gojjam and more southern regions up to that time unknown to Europeans. Among other achievements, Beke was the first to determine, with any approach to scientific accuracy, the course of the Abay River (Blue Nile). The valuable results of this journey, which occupied him from 1840 to 1843, he gave to the world in a number of papers in scientific publications, chiefly in the \"Journal of the Royal Geographical Society\".\n\nOn his return to London, Beke re-engaged in commerce, but devoted all his leisure to geographical and kindred studies. In 1848 he planned an expedition from the mainland opposite Zanzibar to discover the sources of the Nile. A start was made, but the expedition accomplished little. Beke's belief that the White Nile was the main stream was, however, shown to be accurate by subsequent exploration.\n\nIn 1856, he endeavoured, unsuccessfully, to establish commercial relations with Ethiopia through Massawa. In 1861-1862 he and his wife travelled in Syria and Palestine, and went to Egypt with the object of promoting trade with Central Africa and the growth of cotton in the Sudan. In 1865, he attempted to visit Ethiopia to negotiate from Emperor Tewodros the release of the British captives. On learning that the captives had been released, Beke turned back, but Tewodros afterwards re-arrested the party. To the military expedition sent to effect their release, Beke furnished much valuable information, and his various services to the government and to geographical research were acknowledged by the award of £500 in 1868 by the secretary for India, and by the grant of a civil list pension of £100 in 1870. In his 74th year he undertook a journey to Egypt for the purpose of determining the real position of Mount Sinai. He conceived that it was on the eastern side of the Gulf of Aqaba, and his journey convinced him that his view was right. It has not, however, commended itself to general acceptance. Beke died in Bromley, in Kent.\n\nBeke's writings are very numerous. Among the more important, besides those already named, are \"An Essay on the Nile and its Tributaries\" (1847), \"The Sources of the Nile \"(1860), and \"The British Captives in Abyssinia\" (1865). He was a fellow of the Royal Geographical Society, and for his contributions to the knowledge of Ethiopia received its gold medal, and also that of the French Société de Géographie. But as a result of a controversy over the statements of a rival Ethiopian explorer, Antoine Thomson d'Abbadie, Beke returned the French medal.\n"}
{"id": "2307065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307065", "title": "KXGN-TV", "text": "KXGN-TV\n\nKXGN-TV, virtual and VHF digital channel 5, is a dual CBS/NBC-affiliated television station licensed to Glendive, Montana, United States. Owned by Glendive Broadcasting Corporation, it is sister to radio stations KXGN (1400 AM) and KDZN (96.5 FM). The three stations share studios on South Douglas Street in downtown Glendive; KXGN-TV's transmitter is located at Makoshika State Park. The station also airs news and other programs from the Montana Television Network, a network of CBS affiliates in Montana.\n\nThe Glendive area is a primarily agricultural region in eastern Montana, which is the smallest of the 210 Nielsen-designated broadcast television market areas in the United States. KXGN-TV serves a total potential home-market audience of a mere 5,000 households in Dawson and Prairie counties in eastern Montana, as well as some rural areas in western North Dakota. The market is also the smallest in North America; Canada's smallest market, Kenora, Ontario (formerly with CJBN-TV as its only local broadcaster, which shut down in 2017), has about 5,800 households.\n\nKXGN-TV was founded by Lewis Moore, who sold it and KXGN radio to Stephan Marks in 1990. Marks added KDZN in 1995. KXGN celebrated its 50th year on the air in November 2007.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nKXGN was allocated ATSC TV channel 10 by the FCC in September 2004 after receiving multiple extensions of the original May 1, 2002, deadline to go digital due to financial hardship. In fall 2008, it received FCC permission to place its final post-transition digital signal on its existing channel, VHF 5, reducing the cost of its digital transition by an estimated $100,000 by not simulcasting digitally on another channel during transition.\n\nBy 2007, Glendive was the only remaining U.S. terrestrial television market to have no digital signals at all.\n\nInitial obstacles to small-market digital transition included the high costs involved and the small number of digital TV sets in use in the local area. The latter was magnified by the limited number of households which would be able to receive the digital signal over-the-air. Much of this market can only receive KXGN via a repeater over the air, and cable television is all but essential for an acceptable signal. Costs of installing a new hilltop digital transmitter in Makoshika plus new digital-capable microwave equipment, while undisclosed by KXGN, were estimated to be in the upper six-figure range.\n\nKXGN-TV's digital broadcast equipment was scheduled to be delivered just before the original February 17, 2009, shutdown of analogue broadcasting; as of February 15, the equipment had yet to arrive. Once the national shut-off date had been extended, a clearly unready KXGN opted to take advantage of the new transition date, June 12, 2009. KXGN's digital conversion was completed in June 2009 with relatively minimal disruption.\n\nThe exemption of LPTV operations from the 2009 DTV transition requirement left KXGN as an analog signal for viewers of numbered repeater stations long after the main signal became entirely digital. Individual KXGN broadcast translator sites, however, needed to update their equipment to convert the new digital signal back to analogue for rebroadcast; the readiness of these facilities and the availability of the KXGN-DT 5 signal over the air at the individual repeater sites was largely unknown until the transition's completion. However, the station's low-power translators were required to convert to digital by September 1, 2015, as part of the Digital TV transition for low-powered television stations. While the added capacity available on a digital signal allows the station to dedicate a digital subchannel to full NBC programming (as is currently the case) or even (through Miles Community College) to obtain Montana PBS feeds, translator viewers retain their existing analog coverage and do not currently receive any extra channels.\n\nKXGN was also (albeit indirectly) listed as one of the charter affiliates of the .2 Network, which was originally slated to have begun broadcasting sometime in 2008; it never signed on.\n\nIn addition to its primary programming, KXGN operates an NBC affiliate on its second digital subchannel; until September 2009, its primary feed carried NBC on a secondary basis in addition to CBS. KXGN was the last \"Big 3\" station in the US to air more than one network's programming on a single feed. In the past, KXGN also carried some ABC and Fox programming; the station also carried UPN during the overnight hours until UPN closed on September 15, 2006 to combine with The WB to form The CW network (currently CW programming is seen on cable-only channel \"CW Glendive\", formerly \"KWZB\").\n\nKXGN also offered programming from The Sportsman Channel during the late-night hours on weekends, until that channel restricted availability to cable and satellite systems.\n\nKXGN-TV clears the entire CBS schedule. However, KXGN-TV airs CBS's prime-time lineup from 6:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. in sync with the Eastern and Central time zones; some other CBS programs, particularly daytime programming, are also aired one hour ahead of their usual Mountain Time Zone airings. Until September 2009, KXGN would air NBC programming that was either airing at 9:00 p.m. or recorded earlier that evening. While the station also carried all of NBC's soap operas (\"Days of Our Lives\" and, until September 2007, \"Passions\"), in later years in addition to CBS', NBC's other programs did not air on KXGN. It opted to show CBS programming or local shows instead.\n\nEven after dropping NBC from its primary subchannel, KXGN has retained the 6:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. CBS prime-time block intact, opting to show syndicated programming at 9:00 p.m.\n\nSyndicated programming on KXGN currently includes \"Judge Judy\", \"Dr. Phil\", \"The Ellen DeGeneres Show\", and \"Rachael Ray\".\n\nLike KXGN-TV, KXGN-DT2 clears the entire NBC schedule. In contrast to KXGN-TV, KXGN-DT2 generally clears NBC programming in their normal time periods. Syndicated programming on KXGN-DT2 include \"The Dr. Oz Show\", \"Right This Minute\", \"Entertainment Tonight\", and \"The People's Court\".\n\nA full-time NBC affiliate, KUMV-TV from Williston, North Dakota, was and still is available on cable. Until 2013, KUMV operated a local 2630-watt repeater in Glendive, K13PL channel 13; due to KXGN's NBC-affiliated subchannel and its prior secondary affiliation, this was one of very few situations where a commercial network had, in effect, two different affiliates in the same city.\n\nKXGN aired a daily evening local newscast called \"Montana East News\" until 2015. Former longtime personality Ed Agre was once profiled by \"Sports Illustrated\" for his duties in this capacity. \"Dapper\" Dan Frenzel, KXGN's weekend TV weatherman and radio DJ since April 1964, served as vice president and general manager of the station from 1988 until his death (due to a heart condition) in 2003. In the later years of the newscast's operation, Emilie Boyles served as the station's sole reporter and editor. By that time, the newscast consisted of a five-minute segment airing at 9:55 p.m. and 7:25 a.m., the following day, on KXGN's CBS subchannel and 4:55 p.m. on KXGN's NBC subchannel. The local newscast was cancelled in 2015; since then, the only local production on KXGN has been \"Let's Talk About It\", a half-hour public affairs program that airs on Sundays on both of KXGN's subchannels.\n\nKXGN's CBS subchannel simulcasts most newscasts from Billings' KTVQ, with the exception of its morning newscast, as an affiliate of the Montana Television Network. \"CBS Morning News\" and \"CBS This Morning\" are the only morning newscasts on KXGN's CBS subchannel. Likewise, KXGN's NBC subchannel simulcasts newscasts from another Billings station, KULR-TV; unlike the CBS subchannel, this arrangement includes the second hour of KULR's morning newscast, \"Wake Up Montana\".\n\nLike many other Montana stations, KXGN relies heavily on a mix of broadcast translators and cable TV systems to extend its reach to more viewers.\n\n\nK13IG-D is the only translator owned by KXGN—all others are either owned by local governments or television associations.\n\n"}
{"id": "2307068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307068", "title": "Blood, Sweat and Tears (album)", "text": "Blood, Sweat and Tears (album)\n\nBlood, Sweat and Tears is the fifteenth album by singer Johnny Cash, released in 1963 (see 1963 in music). It is a collection of songs about the American working man. This includes \"The Legend of John Henry's Hammer\" and \"Busted\", the latter of which would become a single. Both would also be performed by Cash during his famous 1968 concerts at Folsom Prison and be included in the 1999 extended reissue of the album, \"At Folsom Prison\". The album was included on the Bear Family Records box set \"Come Along and Ride This Train\". \n\nAdditional personnel \n\nAlbum - Billboard (North America)\nSingles - Billboard (North America)\n"}
{"id": "2307069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307069", "title": "Wisconsin Avenue", "text": "Wisconsin Avenue\n\nWisconsin Avenue is a major thoroughfare in Washington, D.C., and its Maryland suburbs. The southern terminus begins in Georgetown just north of the Potomac River, at an intersection with K Street under the elevated Whitehurst Freeway. The section of Wisconsin Avenue in Georgetown was called High Street before the street names in Georgetown were changed in 1895 to conform to those of the L'Enfant plan for the federal city (although Georgetown predates the planned capital by half a century).\n\nFrom the Georgetown riverfront, Wisconsin Avenue climbs steeply north through Northwest D.C. (see picture above), through often congested, slow-moving traffic squeezed into just two travel lanes, with parked vehicles continuously filling both curb lanes. The Avenue then passes through the neighborhoods of Glover Park, Cathedral Heights (next to the Washington National Cathedral), Cleveland Park, Tenleytown and Friendship Heights with its several broadcasting towers. While in Friendship Heights, Wisconsin Avenue intersects with Western Avenue (which forms much of the Northwest border of Washington, D.C.) and then crosses into Montgomery County, Maryland. In Maryland, the road is also alternatively known as Maryland Route 355. As Wisconsin Avenue passes through Bethesda it forms one of the main streets of the downtown area. \nJust north of downtown Bethesda, at the intersection with Glenbrook Parkway, its name changes to \"Rockville Pike\". Rockville Pike runs along the National Institutes of Health campus, the United States National Library of Medicine, and the National Naval Medical Center and has an incomplete interchange with the Capital Beltway at exit 34. The Pike then runs through North Bethesda into Rockville, which is the county seat of Montgomery County. This part of Rockville Pike is home to many strip malls, as well as White Flint Mall, and is notorious for its traffic congestion.\n\nNear the center of Rockville, the name changes to \"Hungerford Drive\" for a short while. In the outskirts of Rockville, the name changes to \"Frederick Road\". However, in the city of Gaithersburg, the road is known as South Frederick Avenue south of Diamond Avenue in downtown, and North Frederick Avenue north of Diamond Avenue. Upon leaving Gaithersburg city limits, the name returns to Frederick Road, which continues through the unincorporated communities of Germantown and Clarksburg, both rapidly developing suburbs. Upon entering Frederick County and the unincorporated community of Urbana, the road is known as \"Urbana Pike\". It ends at U.S. Highway 15, just north of the city of Frederick, which is the county seat. In downtown Frederick, the route is known as \"Market Street\".\n\nOne aspect of Rockville Pike that confuses many motorists is the system of assigning building numbers. In unincorporated areas of the county, building numbers are assigned according to the addressing system in use in Montgomery County, a Cartesian coordinate plane with its origin at the United States Capitol. Within the city limits of Rockville, however, the origin of the numbering system is at the center of Rockville. Thus, someone driving north on the Pike sees building numbers above 12000 and rising, which suddenly give way to building numbers below 2000 and falling.\n\nIn Gaithersburg, the numbering direction changes twice. Addresses on South Frederick Avenue increase from zero as one travels south from Diamond Avenue, and only reach the hundreds by the southern city boundary. On North Frederick Avenue, the numbers similarly increase from zero as one travel to the north. As one leaves Gaithersburg to the north, the building numbers change back to the county's Capitol-based system.\n\nFrom the Tenleytown-AU station north, Wisconsin Avenue/Rockville Pike/Route 355 runs approximately parallel to the Red Line of the Washington Metro. North of the Capital Beltway until Frederick (at the Interstate 70 junction), the highway runs parallel to Interstate 270, which handles express traffic through Montgomery and southern Frederick counties.\n\nMetrorail stations on or near Wisconsin Avenue are all served by the Red Line. They include:\n\nThe following Metrobus routes travel along the street (listed from south to north):\n\nThe D.C. Circulator's Georgetown-Union Station route travels along the street:\n\nThe following Ride On routes travel along the street (listed from south to north):\n\nThe following MARC Train stops lie near the street:\n\nWisconsin Avenue/Rockville Pike is part of the National Highway System as an arterial route from M Street to the Beltway and as an intermodal connector from the Beltway to the Grosvenor Metro station.\n\nWisconsin Avenue follows the route of an ancient Native American trail. Between 1805 and 1820, it was reconstructed into a toll road to carry tobacco and other products between Georgetown and Frederick. Starting around 1920, various sections of the road have been paved and widened to two, four and as many as six lanes. \n\nIn 1864, General Jubal A. Early marched down this road from Monocacy Junction in an attempt to take Washington, D.C. that ended in the Battle of Fort Stevens.\n\nWisconsin Avenue was once U.S. Highway 240. Outside of the Beltway, U.S. Highway 240 was relocated to what is today Interstate 270. Eventually, the entire route designation was decommissioned.\n\n"}
{"id": "2307073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307073", "title": "R v Headteacher and Governors of Denbigh High School, ex p Begum", "text": "R v Headteacher and Governors of Denbigh High School, ex p Begum\n\nR (Begum) v Governors of Denbigh High School [2006] is a House of Lords case on the legal regulation of religious symbols and dress under the Human Rights Act 1998.\n\nThe case involved Shabina Begum, a Muslim pupil at Denbigh High School in Luton, UK, who sued her school. Begum opposed the schools requirement that she wear the shalwar kameez-style Denbigh school uniform instead of a longer, looser Muslim gown (a jilbāb), on the grounds that the uniform was not compliant with Sharia law. Begum lost her case in the High Court, won on appeal to the Court of Appeal, but then lost in March 2006 when the Judicial Committee of the House of Lords unanimously overturned the first appeal.\n\nShabina Begum (; born in the UK, aged 16 at the time and of Bangladeshi origin), was a pupil at Denbigh High School in Luton, Bedfordshire. Four out of the six parent governors were Muslims, the Chair of the Luton Council of Mosques was a community governor and three of the LEA governors were also Muslims. However the school also contained a significant number of pupils of other faiths and the school wished to be inclusive in serving the needs of this diverse community and regarded the school uniform as promoting a sense of communal identity. In addition to uniforms incorporating trousers or skirts, female pupils are also offered a uniform based on the Pakistani or Punjabi shalwar kameez with optional khimar. The school uniform was decided upon in consultation with local mosques, religious organisations and parents. The School considered the shalwar kameez ideal as it was worn by several faith groups and, accordingly, helped to minimise the differences between them.\n\nFor two years, Ms. Begum attended the school without complaint, wearing the shalwar kameez, but in September 2002, Ms. Begum, accompanied by her brother and another young male, went to the school and asked that she be allowed to wear the long coat-like garment known as the jilbāb. In the opinion of Begum and her supporters, the particular form of shalwar kameez offered by the school was relatively close-fitting with short sleeves, and was therefore not compliant with the requirements of Islamic dress as they are stated in Sharia law. Shabina refused to attend for three years unless she was allowed to wear the jilbab to school. She said she believed that this was required by her Muslim faith, but also in contravention of the school uniform policy. In addition, the jilbab was, in the opinion of Begum and her supporters, a more culturally-neutral form of Islamic attire.\n\nThe school's supporters claimed that after Begum's parents had died, she had come under the undue influence of her brother Shuweb Rahman. They also argued that if Begum was allowed to attend classes wearing jilbab, other pupils would feel under pressure to adopt stricter forms of Islamic dress.\n\nBegum, with her brother, issued a claim for judicial review of the school's decision not to allow her to wear the jilbab at school. The claim was made on the grounds that the school had interfered with her right to manifest her religion (Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights) and her right to education (Article 2(1) of the first protocol).\n\nBegum lost the case in the High Court, but later won on appeal to the Court of Appeal. The school appealed against this decision, and the case was heard by the Judicial Committee of the House of Lords. The Department for Education and Skills was allowed to make submissions in the hearing in the House of Lords. The House of Lords ruled in favour of the school. Begum was represented in the Court of Appeal and the House of Lords by the former Prime Minister's wife Cherie Blair QC.\n\nLord Bingham of Cornhill stressed at the outset of his judgment that,\n\nThe Law Lords took the view that a person's right to hold a particular religious belief was absolute (i.e. could not be interfered with), but that a person's right to manifest a particular religious belief was qualified (i.e. it could be interfered with if there was a justification).\n\nThree of the five Law Lords held that Begum's rights had not been interfered with (Lord Bingham, Lord Scott of Foscote and Lord Hoffmann), and two held that they had (Lord Nicholls of Birkenhead and Baroness Hale of Richmond).\n\nAll five agreed, however, that in this particular case there were justifiable grounds for interference, one of the grounds being to protect the rights of other female students at the school who would not wish to be pressured into adopting a more extreme form of dress.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307076", "title": "Melanne Verveer", "text": "Melanne Verveer\n\nMelanne Verveer is the executive director of the Georgetown Institute for Women, Peace and Security at Georgetown University, a founding partner of Seneca Point Global, a global women strategy firm, and a co-founder of Seneca Women. She is also the co-author with Kim Azzarelli of the book \"Fast Forward: How Women Can Achieve Power and Purpose\".\n\nMost recently, she served as the first United States Ambassador-at-Large for Global Women's Issues, nominated by President Barack Obama in February and confirmed by the United States Senate in April 2009. In that role, she directed the Office of Global Women's Issues.\n\nPreviously, Verveer served as the Chair and Co-CEO of Vital Voices Global Partnership, which she co-founded with Hillary Clinton in 2001. Vital Voices is a global NGO that supports emerging women leaders who are advancing economic, political and social progress in their societies.\n\nDuring the Clinton Administration, Verveer served as Assistant to President Bill Clinton and Chief of Staff to the First Lady Hillary Clinton. Among her duties was overseeing Hillary Clinton's global initiatives on women's rights as human rights.\n\nPrior to serving in the White House, she was executive director of People for the American Way, a progressive advocacy group, where she was involved in the passage of civil rights legislation. Earlier, she was Coordinator for Civil Rights and Urban Affairs for the U.S. Catholic Conference. She served on the staffs of US Senator George McGovern and Representative Marcy Kaptur.\n\nVerveer holds a B.S. and M.S. from Georgetown University. She is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, the Trilateral Commission and the World Bank Advisory Council on Gender and Development. She served as the 2013 Humanitas visiting professor at Cambridge University. In 2008, the President of Ukraine awarded her the Order of Princess Olga. She holds several honorary degrees and is the recipient of numerous awards, including the U.S. Secretary's Distinguished Service Award.\n\nVerveer served as Deputy Assistant to President Clinton (1993–96) and then as Assistant to the President Clinton (1997-2000). (See: Executive Office of the President of the United States) As a member of the White House Senior Staff, she provided advice and implemented a wide range of substantive policies, including judicial selection and legal services, arts policies, health care and women's issues. She was instrumental in the adoption of the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000 and led the effort to establish the President's Interagency Council on Women.\n\nFirst as Deputy Chief of Staff (1993-1996) and then as Chief of Staff to the First Lady (1997 2000), she served as Mrs. Clinton's chief assistant for her international activities. (See: Office of the First Lady of the United States) These included overseeing her global initiatives on women's rights as human rights, democracy-building micro enterprise, girls' education and other development programs. She organized the first lady's foreign trips to over 70 countries. She helped to create the US government's Vital Voices Democracy Initiative to promote women's economic and political progress. The initiative grew out of the US response to the UN's Fourth World Conference on Women, which took place in Beijing in 1995. It was in Beijing that Hillary Clinton made her historic Women's Rights Are Human Rights speech.\" Verveer was responsible for much of the planning for the US participation in the Beijing conference.\n\nAuthor Greg Rushford noted in \"Appointments with Power\" (1994, Legal Times Books), \"No first lady has ever been as deeply involved in the substantive issues of government as Hillary Rodham Clinton….and no first lady's staff has ever had a political operative of the caliber and experience of Melanne Verveer.\"\n\nIn her White House memoirs, Clinton notes, \"A true policy wonk who loves the complexities and nuances of issues, Melanne had worked for years on Capitol Hill and in the advocacy world. I used to joke there wasn't a single person in Washington she didn't know. Not only was she a legend in the nation's capital; so was her Rolodex…There is no way to catalog the many projects that Melanne masterminded… She also became a key player on the president's team, advocating for policies affecting women, human rights, legal services and the arts.\"\n\nVerveer co-founded the international NGO, Vital Voices Global Partnership in 2001 to continue the work – begun by then First Lady Hillary Clinton – to support emerging women leaders in building vibrant democracies and strong economies. Vital Voices focuses on expanding women's participation in politics and civil society, increasing women's entrepreneurship and fighting human rights abuses, particularly the trafficking of women and children. The Vital Voices Global Leadership Network connects thousands of women leaders who have participated in Vital Voices conferences and training programs around the globe. Verveer served as Chair of the Board and Co-CEO until early 2009.\n\nHillary Clinton addressed the Vital Voices annual awards gala at the Kennedy Center every year since its inception. In 2013, Clinton honored Verveer for her service to advancing women's progress.\n\nIn 2009, President Obama nominated Verveer to be the first United States Ambassador-at-Large for Global Women's Issues at the United States Department of State. She was confirmed by the Senate in April 2009. She served as Ambassador from 2009-2013, working closely with Hillary Clinton to coordinate foreign policy issues and activities relating to the political, economic and social advancement of women and girls, traveling to nearly 60 countries, including Myanmar, Papua New Guinea, Afghanistan, and the Democratic Republic of Congo. She worked to fully integrate women's participation and rights into U.S. foreign policy and to mobilize concrete support for women's political and economic empowerment through public–private partnership, participation in bilateral strategic dialogues, the agendas of multilateral organizations and policy initiatives. During Clinton's tenure, women's issues were recognized as integral to foreign policy and a number of new policies were adopted, including Secretarial Policy Guidance on Gender Equality and the National Action Plan on Women, Peace and Security. Their work recognized the role of women's economic participation in multilateral organizations, including leadership on \"Women & Economy in APEC. Verveer also met frequently with women who were on the front lines of the \"Arab Awakening\". President Obama appointed Verveer as Ambassador to the Commission on the Status of Women. She also served as the Co-Chair of the US-Afghan Women's Council.\n\nTo mark Women's History Month at the White House in 2013, President Obama recognized Verveer's achievements and noted that he was making the position of Ambassador for Global Women's Issues permanent. He issued a presidential memorandum to that effect.\n\nObama said, \"We're also seeing expanded opportunity for women to reach their full potential around the world. That's in large part because four years ago, a former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, a tireless advocate for women herself, designated an Ambassador-at-Large for Global Women's Issues whose sole job it is to make sure that women and girls are a central part of every aspect of our foreign policy, that their concerns are considered at the highest level of our diplomatic decision-making. For four years, the incredible Melanne Verveer held that role. We're so grateful for her service, along with the millions of women around the world that she helped to amplify and helped to fight alongside on the causes that are so important.\"\n\nThe Georgetown Institute for Women, Peace and Security seeks to enhance national and global security by documenting the crucial role women play in peace-building and security through research and scholarship and by engaging global leaders from government, civil society and the private sector in conversations on the urgent issues of our times. Hillary Clinton is the honorary founding chair of the Institute.\n\n\"Fast Forward: How Women Can Achieve Power and Purpose\" is co-authored by Verveer and Azzarelli and will be published in October 2015 by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. The book features a foreword by Hillary Rodham Clinton and showcases how some of the world's most powerful women are using their growing economic power to create success and meaning in their lives while building a better world.\n\n– Foremother Award from The National Center for Health Research (2017) <br>\n– US Secretary of State, Award for Distinguished Service (2013)<br>\n– Global Partnership for Afghanistan, Seeding the Future Award (2013)<br>\n– International Center for Research on Women, Champions for Change Leadership Award (2013)<br>\n– Virtue Foundation, Humanitarian Award (2013)<br>\n– Earth Day Network, Women Green Economy Leadership Award (2013)<br>\n– IREX, Founder's Day Award (2013)<br>\n– Achiana, Leadership Award (2013)<br>\n– I Live 2 Lead Trailblazer Award (2013)<br>\n– Global Fairness Award (2012)<br>\n– Nizami Ganjavi International Award (2012)<br>\n– Fast Company, 60 Influencers Who are Changing the World (2012)<br>\n– Francophone Ambassadors Award (2012)<br>\n– Newsweek, 150 Fearless Women in the World (2012)<br>\n– Enterprising Women Hall of Fame (2012)<br>\n– Futures Without Violence, Global Impact Award (2012)<br>\n– Jewish World Watch, I Witness Award (2012)<br>\n– Oxford University Said Business School, Womensphere Global Award (2011)<br>\n– Somaly Mam Foundation Award (2011)<br>\n– Newsweek, 150 Women Who Shake the World (2011)<br>\n– Emily Couric Women's Leadership Award (2011)<br>\n– Interaction Breakthrough Award (2011)<br>\n– Innocents at Risk, Woman of Courage Award (2011)<br>\n– Delivered the NYC Bar Association Justice Ginsburg Distinguished Lecture on Women and Law (2010)<br>\n– AVON Public Service Champions Award (2010)<br>\n– Boston World Affairs Council (2010)<br>\n– Christian Herter Memorial Award from the Boston World Affairs Council (2010)<br>\n– Women's Foreign Policy Group Award (2010)<br>\n– National Council for Research on Women, Making a Difference Award (2010)<br>\n– Meridian International Center, Meridian Award (2009)<br>\n– Birmingham Southern College, Women of Achievement (2008)<br>\n– President of Ukraine, Awarded the Order of Princess Olga (2008)<br>\n– Basilian Humanitarian Award (1998)<br>\n– National Council of Ukrainian Women, Public Service Award (1997)<br>\n– People for the American Way, First Amendment Award<br>\n– American Association Of University Women, Woman of Distinction Award\n\n– Ulster University, Northern Ireland (2013)<br> \n– Franklin and Marshall (2013)<br>\n– Smith College (2013)<br>\n– Agnes Scott College (2011)\n\n– Asia Foundation (Board)<br>\n– Atlantic Council (Board)<br>\n– Center for Budget and Policy Priorities (Board)<br>\n– World Bank Advisory Council on Gender and Development (Board)<br>\n– National Endowment for Democracy (Board)<br>\n– Trilateral Commission (Member)<br>\n– Council on Foreign Relations (Member)\n\n– \"Closing the Internet Gender Gap,\" Huffington Post<br>\n– \"Why Women Are a Foreign Policy Issue,\" Foreign Policy<br>\n– \"Lift Up Women to Lift Up the World,\" CNN<br>\n– \"At Davos: Investing in Women Emerges as a Business Strategy,\" The Daily Beast<br>\n– \"Our Commitment to Afghan Women,\" The Huffington Post<br>\n– \"Eleven Words,\" The Huffington Post<br>\n– \"Celebrating the Power of Collaboration,\" Business Fight Poverty\n\nVerveer was born in Pottsville, Pennsylvania. She is married to Philip Verveer, a Washington communications lawyer who served as Ambassador and U.S. Coordinator for International Communications and Information policy (2009-2013). They have three grown children and two granddaughters.\n\n"}
{"id": "2307077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307077", "title": "Y-STR", "text": "Y-STR\n\nA Y-STR is a short tandem repeat (STR) on the Y-chromosome. Y-STRs are often used in forensics, paternity, and genealogical DNA testing.\nY-STRs are taken specifically from the male Y chromosome. These Y-STRs provide a weaker analysis than autosomal STRs because the Y chromosome is only found in males, which are only passed down by the father, making the Y chromosome in any paternal line practically identical. This causes a significantly smaller amount of distinction between Y-STR samples. Autosomal STRs provide a much stronger analytical power because of the random matching that occurs between pairs of chromosomes during the zygote making process.\n\nY-STRs are assigned names by the HUGO gene nomenclature committee (HGNC).\n\nSome testing companies have different formats for the way STR markers are written. For example, the marker DYS455 may be written as DYS455, DYS 455, DYS#455, or DYS# 455. The scientific standard accepted by HUGO and NIST is DYS455.\n\nDYS is a variation on the jargon used in human autosomal STR testing where the second character is typically reserved for the chromosome number (e.g. D8S1179).\n\nD = DNA\nY = Y-chromosome\nS = (unique) segment\n\nThere are regions on DNA that are made up of multiple copies of short repeating sequences of bases (for example TATT) which repeat a variable number of times depending on the individual. These regions, called “variable number short tandem repeats” are what is looked at when performing STR analysis. The likelihood of two people having the same number of repeated sequences is extremely small, and becomes even smaller the more regions that are analyzed. This makes up the basis of short tandem repeat analysis. The cornerstone for this process, however, is polymerase chain reaction (PCR). This allows forensic scientists to make millions of copies of the STR regions. Gel electrophoresis then “yields the number of times each repeat unit appears in the fragment.” This allows for easy comparison of DNA.\n\nIn the United States, 13 different autosomal STR loci are used as a basis of analysis for forensic purposes. If crime scene DNA is ample and all 13 autosomal loci accessible, the likelihood of two unrelated people matching the same sample is around one in one billion.\n\nThe basis for the profile probability estimation for Y-STR analysis is the counting method. The application of a confidence interval accounts for database size and sampling variation. The Y haplotype frequency (p) is calculated using the p = x/N formula, where x is equal to the number of times the haplotype is observed in a database containing N number of haplotypes. For example, if a haplotype has been observed twice in a database of N = 2000, the frequency of that haplotype will be: 2/2000 = 0.001. Reporting a Y haplotype frequency, without a confidence interval, is acceptable but only provides a factual statement regarding observations of a Y haplotype in the database. An upper confidence limit for the probability of the Y haplotype in the population should be calculated using the method described by Clopper and Pearson (1934). This uses the binomial distribution for the probabilities of counts, including zero or other small numbers that are found for Y haplotypes.\n\nForensic databases (without individual information, for frequency purposes):\n\nIn genetic genealogy, Ysearch used to be the last sponsored database containing publicly submitted surnames and Y-STR haplotypes until its decommission on May 24, 2018, preceding by a day the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation in the European Union, following a prolonged period of lacking support from its creator, Family Tree DNA. The database was founded in 2003 and reached 219 thousand records (among which 152 thousand unique haplotypes) before its shutdown. Other similar databases had disappeared earlier.\n\nHaplogroup (Y-SNP) specific data:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307084", "title": "Whittier Law School", "text": "Whittier Law School\n\nWhittier Law School was a law school in Costa Mesa, California founded in 1966. The law school was part of Whittier College, a private institution. After several years of being ranked among the poorest performing law schools in the country based on bar passage rate and job placement, on April 15, 2017, Whittier Law School announced it would no longer be admitting students and would discontinue its legal program. The closure of Whittier Law School will make it the first law school with full accreditation by the American Bar Association (ABA) to shut down in at least 30 years.\n\nThe school was founded as the Beverly College of Law in 1966, and was originally located in the Hancock Park area of Los Angeles' Westside. It was a private, nonprofit educational institution intended to meet the growing need for a law school in the Los Angeles metropolitan area.\n\nIn 1974, the Whittier College Board of Trustees voted to merge the Beverly College of Law into Whittier College. In 1975, the Law School became known as the Whittier College School of Law and later as Whittier Law School. In response to a significant gift to the Law School, the Hancock Park building was dedicated as the Ross McCollum Law Center during a ceremony at which Supreme Court Associate Justice Byron R. White presented the major address.\n\nDuring the 1990s, the Law School, along with leaders at Whittier College, decided to relocate the campus to Orange County in order to satisfy space needs and in response to requests by the community for an ABA law school in Orange County. In 1996, the college acquired the present 14-acre campus in Costa Mesa, remodeled the buildings on the site to accommodate the needs of the Law School, and moved the faculty and students over a period of three years. In 1997, the move was completed and Supreme Court Associate Justice Anthony Kennedy gave the major address at the opening ceremony.\n\nIn 2013, Chief Justice of California Tani Cantil-Sakauye spoke at the grand opening of the law school's court room. A substantial amount of the funds to build the new $2 million facility was donated by Paul Kiesel, a Whittier alumnus and partner at Kiesel Law, LLP. Over 150 contributors, including alumni, faculty, judges, law firms, members of the Orange County community, and Whittier Law School student groups, were responsible for the remainder.\nIn April 2017, the school announced that it would admit no more first-year students and would work with the 400 current students to complete their degree. No firm closing date has been announced. It became the first fully accredited law school in the country to announce closure in a time of challenge for legal education institutions. The school plans to cease all operations in July 2020.\n\nWhittier Law School offers both full and part-time J.D. programs. The full-time program takes three years to complete, while the part-time program takes four years to complete.\n\nIn 1978, the American Bar Association (ABA) granted Whittier Law School provisional accreditation. In 1985, Whittier Law School was fully accredited by the ABA and in 1987 it became a member of the Association of American Law Schools (AALS).\n\nOn August 9, 2005, the ABA, concerned about Whittier Law School's low bar passage rates, placed the law school's accreditation on probationary status for two years. On August 10, 2007, the ABA extended the probation until February 15, 2009. Under the ABA's rules, the law school remained fully accredited during the probation period, and all students who entered and graduated during this period are deemed to have graduated from an ABA accredited law school.\n\nOn April 17, 2008, the ABA Accreditation Committee recommended to the Council of the Section of Legal Education and Admissions to the Bar that Whittier Law School be removed from probation. Dean Cogan reported:\n\nOn June 7, 2008, the ABA officially removed Whittier Law School from its probationary status.\n\nAccording to the ABA Section on Legal Education & Admissions to the Bar, Section 301-6(a)(1)(b) states that graduating law students within the last five calendar years must pass a state bar examination at a minimum of 75% in at least three of the five calendar years.\n\nWhittier Law School had the lowest bar exam pass rate of all California ABA-accredited law schools for first-time takers for the July 2016 exam at 22%; for first-time takers for the July 2015 exam at 38%; for first-time takers for the February 2015 exam at 30%; and for first-time takers for the July 2014 exam at 43%.\n\nIn 2010, \"The Princeton Review\" featured Whittier Law School in its 2011 edition of \"The 172 Best Law Schools\", highlighting the school's emphasis on small class sizes, an active student body, and practical externship opportunities in intellectual property, criminal, family, business law. In January 2011, Whitter scored a \"B-\" among \"Best Public Interest Law Schools\" listing by \"The National Jurist: The Magazine for Law Students\".\n\nOn March 22, 2012 \"U.S. News & World Report\" included Whittier Law School in its list of \"10 Law Schools That Lead to the Most Debt\".\n\nIn 2015, Whittier was recognized by \"U.S. News and World Report\" as the country's fourth most ethnically diverse law school. The website reported that 23% of Whittier students were Hispanic, the school's largest minority. The Council on Legal Education Opportunity (CLEO) selected Whittier to host two seminars for students from diverse backgrounds over the weekend of June 27–28, 2015. The program's stated goal was \"to prepare talented, motivated, yet underrepresented students with guidance in becoming successful law students.\" On November 14, 2015, the law school planned to host a day-long law school assessment conference, called \"Building an Assessment Plan from the Ground Up,\" designed to help law schools comply with the assessment requirements recently added by the American Bar Association for accreditation.\n\nFor the Class of 2013:\n\nFor the Class of 2016:\nClass of 2013 \n(256 students matriculated in 2010; 174 students graduated in 2013)\n(61 students matriculated in 2009; 30 students graduated in 2013)\n\nThe full-time tuition for the 2014–2015 school year was $42,400.\n\nIn a 2012 article, the average debt of Whittier Law School graduates was $138,961. Average debt was $154,267 for 2013 grads. For 2011 it was the 11th highest of 201 ABA accredited law schools. Of 2013 grads who were employed (approximately half were unemployed), nine months after graduation they had a median starting salary of $62,400. In 2017, it was reported that in the previous year graduates \"had an average of $179,000 in pre-interest debt, the second-highest total among all law schools in the country\", citing Law School Transparency.\n\nWhittier Law School had two scholarly publications: the \"Whittier Law Review\" and the \"Whittier Journal of Child and Family Advocacy\", and one student-run newspaper, the \"Zealous Advocate\".\n\nAccording to a ranking conducted by the Washington & Lee Law School, the \"Whittier Law Review\" is ranked 109th out of 192 law reviews evaluated. According to a ranking of law reviews on the basis of the prominence of the lead article authors, conducted in 2007 by two professors at the Shepard Broad Law Center, the \"Whittier Law Review\" was ranked 121st out of 171 law reviews evaluated. The \"Law Review\" was a student-run organization publishing a collection of articles of legal scholarship four times annually. The \"Law Review\" is currently in its 36th year of publication.\n\nWhittier Law School has centers in children's rights, intellectual property law, and international and comparative law. These centers host fellows, offer externships, and sponsor symposia and workshops. The law school also offers concentrations in criminal law, business law, and environmental law for students who wished to take additional, specialized courses in those areas.\n\nWhittier Law School offers students the opportunity to study abroad. For summer 2015, the law school offered summer programs accredited by the American Bar Association (ABA) in China, Israel, and Spain.\n\nWhittier Law School regularly hosts symposiums and expert panels for academic discussion of contemporary issues. In September 2014, in conjunction with Orange County Coastkeeper, the school hosted an all-day symposium with a continuing-education component, called \"Our Coast To Keep: Environmental Law Enforcement in Southern California.\" In April 2015, the school hosted a symposium on assisted reproductive technology.\n\nThe total cost of attendance (indicating the cost of tuition, fees, and living expenses) at Whittier Law School for the 2013–2014 academic year was $72,780. The Law School Transparency estimated debt-financed cost of attendance for three years is $261,501.\n\nAccording to Whittier's consumer information page and class of 2013 employment status as reported to the ABA, of the 317 entering students only 210 students graduated and were awarded a degree by Whittier. Of the entering Class of 2013 (matriculated in 2010 as full-time and 2009 as part-time) only 64.3% graduated with a degree from Whittier; however, excluding transfers (29 students transferred), 72.9% of the entering class graduated from Whittier. Otherwise, of the 2013 Class, 46 students were academically disqualified involuntarily and 13 voluntarily withdrew.\n\nAccordingly, for the 2013 class, excluding transfers of 29 students, only 210 of 288 students graduated, meaning the employment rate in full-time long term jobs requiring bar passage (e.g. attorney) who were practicing law nine months after graduation of the 2013 entering class was only 19.44%. Disregarding transfers, of the Class of 2013, approximately only one out of five students who entered Whittier graduated and became a lawyer in a full-time long term position within nine months of graduation.\n\nIn 2015, \"National Jurist\" magazine ranked Whittier Law School 12th in the nation for improved employment. Graduates with full-time jobs increased 13.8% from the Class of 2013 to the Class of 2014. Of the jobs as lawyers, 23.9% reported working in law firms, 1.9% in government, and 0.4% in both federal clerkship and public interest. Of graduates, 85 students (40.9%) reported themselves as \"unemployed-seeking\" nine months after graduation. The same number, 85 students of the 2013 graduating class, did not pass the California bar exam. Of those in the Class of 2013 who graduated, passed the bar, and became licensed (126 students), 69 (54.7%) were practicing law nine months after graduation and only 54 (44.8%) were able to find full-time long term employment as lawyers (two reported full-time and short-term). No one reported being a solo practitioner. Within the 2013 graduating class not \"bar passage required\" (practicing law as an attorney) or \"JD advantage\" type of job, 30 were employed \"professionally\" or in a \"non-professional\" position nine months after graduation. The same number of students also graduated from the part-time program.\n\nIn 2015, \"National Jurist\" magazine ranked Whittier Law School 12th in the nation for improved employment. The school's employed increased 13.8% from the Class of 2013 to the Class of 2014.\n\nIn 2015 Whittier co-launched a program with the Legal Aid Society of Orange County, whereby a limited number of graduates who commit to perform at least 300 hours of free legal service have access to subsidized office space in the Legal Aid Society's office. The program includes training in marketing, managing office overhead and tax risks. The majority of the funding for the 2014-2015 class came from a grant obtained by the legal aid society. Martin Pritikin, Whittier's associate dean, said, \"Law schools need to view themselves as having responsibility to their students even after they graduate to help them transition.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307085", "title": "List of Cincinnati art galleries", "text": "List of Cincinnati art galleries\n\nCincinnati has a number of fine art repositories, including:\n"}
{"id": "2307087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307087", "title": "David Glen Eisley", "text": "David Glen Eisley\n\nDavid Glen Eisley (born September 5, 1952) is an American musician, singer, songwriter, and actor.\n\nEisley was born in Los Angeles, California, and is the son of actor Anthony Eisley and Judith Tubbs Eisley. While in high school, he played drums for the band Mammoth, an Iron Butterfly cover band. Before settling into music, Eisley spent much of his early days playing baseball. He eventually reached Double-A for the San Francisco Giants, commuting back and forth between games and club gigs.\n\nHe is married to actress Olivia Hussey with whom he has one daughter, India Eisley. He is the older brother of actor and stuntman Jonathan Erickson Eisley.\n\nHe is most well known for being the lead singer for the AOR bands Sorcery (1980–1983), Giuffria (1983–1988), Dirty White Boy (1988–1991), and Stream (1998). His biggest success came with the band Giuffria, when their hit single \"Call to the Heart\" reached number 15 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 in early 1985. Eisley has also appeared in the television shows \"Beverly Hills, 90210\" and \"7th Heaven\", the movie \"Action Jackson\" and has acted in various commercials. In 1997, Eisley co-wrote the rock ballad \"Sweet Victory\" with Bob Kulick, and in the following year, APM Music released the track on their Bruton Music Library album \"American Games\". The song was featured in the 2001 \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" episode \"Band Geeks\" which sharply increased its popularity, with it reaching number 23 on the Hot Rock Songs chart in February 2019 after Super Bowl LIII.\n\nHe has released four solo albums, \"War Dogs\" in 1999, \"Stranger from the Past\" in 2000, a compilation album of previously unreleased songs, \"The Lost Tapes\", in 2003, and \"Tattered Torn & Worn...\" in 2019.\n\nIn 2017, Eisley was featured as lead vocalist on three songs on Bob Kulick's album, \"Skeletons in the Closet\". On December 1, 2017 he released an album with Craig Goldy, under the band name \"Eisley/Goldy\", titled \"Blood, Guts And Games\".\n"}
{"id": "2307089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307089", "title": "List of Y-STR markers", "text": "List of Y-STR markers\n\nThe following list of Y-STR markers are commonly used in forensic and genealogical DNA testing.\n\nDYS454 is the least diverse, and multi-copy marker DYS464 is the most diverse Y-STR marker.\n\nThe location on the Y-chromosome of numbered Y-STR markers can be roughly given with cytogenetic localization. For example, DYS449 is located at Yp11.2 - meaning the Y-chromosome, petit arm, band 1, sub-band 1, sub-sub-band 2 - DYS449.\n\nForensic Labs usually use PowerPlex Y (Promega Corporation) and Yfiler (Applied Biosystems) kits that examine 12 or 17 Y-STRs, respectively. Genealogical DNA test labs examine up to 442 Y-STRs.\n\nMutation rates are those per generation, as estimated in Chandler (2006). The quoted estimated errors are typically +/- 15-20%. Alternative estimates (for forensic use therefore not all markers are covered) from observed pedigrees are also available at the Y Chromosome Haplotype Reference Database.\n\nIt appears that some trinucleotide markers may have much higher mutation rates at some repeat lengths than at others. For example, variation of the trinucleotide DYS388 is generally very slow in most haplogroups, when it takes the values 11-13. But there appears to be much greater variation and more rapid mutation in Haplogroup J, where it typically has values 14-18. Similarly the trinucleotide DYS392 is reported to be \"fast\" in haplogroups N and Q, where it takes values 14-16 which are rare in other groups.\n\nDNA testing companies or labs in certain cases use different nomenclatures to designate the same Y-STR allele. Thus, a conversion must be applied in these cases to accurately compare Y-STR results obtained from different companies. The most common nomenclature is based on guidance provided by NIST for Y-STR markers historically reported differently by various companies. The NIST standard is the proposal of ISOGG (International Society of Genetic Genealogy) for genetic genealogy companies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307090", "title": "Nevada Public Radio", "text": "Nevada Public Radio\n\nNevada Public Radio was founded in 1980 as a public corporation to operate publicly funded radio in southern Nevada. NPR operates six stations in Nevada, one station in Utah and five retransmitters.\n\nNevada Public Radio was first incorporated in 1975. Five years later, KNPR signed on as the first NPR member in Nevada. For its first 19 years on the air, it operated from space donated by Sam Boyd in Sam's Town Casino.\n\nIn 2003, KNPR split its offerings into two stations. NPR news and talk remained on KNPR, while classical music moved to a new station, KCNV.\n\n\nKNPR's programming is simulcast on six full-power satellite stations.\n\nAdditionally, KNPR operates low-powered translators throughout southern Nevada, as well as in Lake Havasu City, Arizona and Ridgecrest, California\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307092", "title": "WJBR-FM", "text": "WJBR-FM\n\nWJBR-FM (99.5 FM) – branded \"Mix 99.5 WJBR\" – is a commercial adult contemporary radio station licensed to Wilmington, Delaware. Owned by Beasley Broadcast Group, the station serves New Castle County, in addition to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and much of the Delaware Valley. The WJBR-FM transmitter is located north of downtown Wilmington on Bellows Drive. Besides a standard analog transmission, WJBR-FM broadcasts over HD Radio, and is available online.\n\nWJBR-HD3 broadcasts a Gospel format branded as \"Philly's Favor 100.7\", which is simulcast on low-power Mount Holly, New Jersey translator W264BH (100.7 FM) and broadcasts to the Philadelphia radio market.\nOn January 31, 1957, the station signed on as a stand-alone FM station, with no AM counterpart. It was founded by a father and son team, John B. Reynolds, Sr. and John B. Reynolds, Jr. The call sign was based on the founders' initials. John Sr. began the radio station because his son was \"a strong believer in the future of FM.\" The station originally broadcast a classical and light music format. WJBR-FM's format eventually evolved into beautiful music and the station was branded as \"JBR 100\". It used the slogan \"Just Beautiful Radio.\"\n\nIn 1976, the Reynolds Family acquired another Wilmington radio station, WTUX, to combine with WJBR-FM. WTUX was a 1,000 watt daytimer, carrying a middle of the road music format. In 1978, WTUX's call sign was switched to WJBR, and the format flipped to beautiful music, to give WJBR listeners the choice of hearing the station on AM or FM. Over time, the station's power was increased to 2,500 watts in the daytime and nighttime service was added at 32 watts.\n\nIn the early 1980s, WJBR-AM-FM added more soft vocals to attract a younger audience. John B Reynolds, Jr. sold WJBR-AM-FM in 1985 to CRB Broadcasting, which completed the transition from easy listening to an all-vocal soft adult contemporary sound. CRB changed its name to Commodore Media and was eventually purchased by Capstar Broadcasting.\n\nIn March 2000, Capstar sold WJBR-FM to the NextMedia Group for $32.4 million. Capstar retained WJBR, and later merged into Clear Channel Communications, which was renamed iHeartMedia. The AM station is now a Fox Sports Radio station, WWTX, and remains owned by iHeartMedia.\n\nIn February 2007, Beasley Broadcast Group acquired WJBR-FM from NextMedia for a reported $42 million. \n\nWJBR-HD3 programming is simulcast on the following translator, owned by Spectrum Development Group and operated by JAM Media Group:\n\n"}
{"id": "2307094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307094", "title": "Augustus FitzRoy, 7th Duke of Grafton", "text": "Augustus FitzRoy, 7th Duke of Grafton\n\nAugustus Charles Lennox FitzRoy, 7th Duke of Grafton (22 June 1821 – 4 December 1918), styled Lord Augustus FitzRoy before 1882, was the second son of Henry FitzRoy, 5th Duke of Grafton and his wife, Mary Caroline, daughter of Admiral the Hon. Sir George Cranfield Berkeley.\n\nOn 9 June 1847, he married Anna Balfour, daughter of James Balfour MP, and had four children:\n\n\nHe died in 1918, aged 97, at Wakefield Lodge, near Potterspury, Northamptonshire.\n"}
{"id": "2307098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307098", "title": "Vaps Movement", "text": "Vaps Movement\n\nVaps Movement, (, later \"Eesti Vabadussõjalaste Liit\", \"vabadussõjalased\", or colloquially \"vapsid\", a single member of this movement was called \"vaps\") the Union of Participants in the Estonian War of Independence was founded as an Estonian association of veterans of the Estonian War of Independence (1918–1920). Later non-veterans were accepted as its supporter-members. The organisation was founded in 1929, and emerged as a mass anti-communist and anti-parliamentary movement. The leaders of this association were Andres Larka (formal figurehead and presidential candidate) and Artur Sirk.\n\nThe Vaps Movement was a paramilitary anti-socialist organisation with most of its base being the lower middle class. They had no elaborate ideology nor any significant connection with foreign fascist movements, the organisation simply advocated a more authoritarian and nationalist government in Estonia. The league rejected racial ideology and openly criticized the Nazi persecution of Jews. It also lacked the willingness to use violence, or the goal of territorial expansion. However, they were known for sharing some aspects of fascist movements of the time, such as the wearing of a black beret as their uniform headgear, and the use of the Roman salute. Moderate members of the movement such as Johan Pitka gradually left the organisation and new members were allowed to join, who were not veterans. The organisation issued its own newspaper, Võitlus ('The Struggle').\nThe movement strongly supported constitutional reform that would enable a strong president to address national problems. Estonian patriots had been advocating such a change since the mid 20s, but it was not until October 1933 that the government was forced to allow the Vaps movement to put forward its own referendum on constitutional reform, after watered down centre-right proposals failed to win any support. This was approved by 72.7 percent of the voters. The organization was banned by the government of Jaan Tõnisson (who opposed the constitutional reform) under a state of emergency imposed before the referendum, but after this the organization was re-established and became even more radically patriotic. The league spearheaded replacement of the parliamentary system with a presidential form of government and laid the groundwork for an April 1934 presidential election, which it expected to win.\n\nAfter the League won absolute majorities in local elections in the three largest cities at the beginning of 1934, but not in the most rural self-governments nor small towns and boroughs, the recently elected constitutional \"State Elder\" (head of government and head of state) Konstantin Päts declared a state of emergency in the whole country (in certain parts, this was already in effect since 1918) on 12 March 1934, disbanding the Vaps movement and arresting its leading figures. Konstantin Päts established a moderate regime that the historian Georg von Rauch has called Authoritarian Democracy. In 1935, a National Association was formed to replace political parties and series of state corporate institutions were introduced.\n\nThe league was banned and disbanded in December 1935. On 6 May 1936, 150 members of the league went on trial; 143 of them were convicted and sentenced to lengthy terms of imprisonment. They were granted an amnesty and freed in 1938, by which time the league had lost most of its popular support. By 1 January 1938, a new constitution took effect and new parliament was elected in February 1938. The new constitution combined a strong President with a partly elected and partly appointed, officially non-partisan Parliament.\n\nMembers of the movement used the Roman salute and wore black berets as symbols of their allegiance to the organisation. \nThe movement maintained good relations with Finnish nationalist movements such as the Lapua Movement, Patriotic People's Movement and Academic Karelia Society.\n\nAs of 2019, the Vaps movement has no known active members. In 2009, Jüri Liim reportedly submitted a formal application to restore the organisation the original Vaps Movement. The application was not successful, and the Vaps Movement has not been legalised in Estonia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307099", "title": "Pilgrims &amp; Pioneers", "text": "Pilgrims &amp; Pioneers\n\nPilgrims & Pioneers: The History and Speeches of the Science Fiction Research Association Award Winners is a book collection of all the extant award presentations and acceptance speeches of the first thirty Pilgrim Award winners, and of the other Science Fiction Research Association awards through 1999, edited by Hal W. Hall and Daryl F. Mallett. It was published in Riverside, California by Borgo Press in 1999.\n\nHistorical documents, critical papers and statements are supplemented by brief biographic sketches of the winners and selective bibliographies of their scholarly contributions.\n\nPublication of this book was supported by a grant from the World Science Fiction Convention, held in Atlanta that year. Scholar Neil Barron discovered a Call for Grant Projects by the Atlanta WorldCon Committee, and a proposal for a book honoring the Pilgrim Award winners was submitted and accepted by the committee. Under the terms of the grant, the SFRA would donate copies of the volume to up to 25 major science fiction collections worldwide.\n\nThe book is largely the work of Daryl F. Mallett and Fiona Kelleghan, with help from Robert Reginald. They took an incomplete manuscript, edited, formatted and supplemented it, created the bibliographic sections, located printers and binders and brought the book to completion.\n"}
{"id": "2307101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307101", "title": "Rigatoni con la pajata", "text": "Rigatoni con la pajata\n\nRigatoni con la pajata (Romanesco dialect; standard Italian rigatoni con la pagliata ) is a classic dish of the Roman cuisine. The dish can be found in some traditional trattorias in Rome. \"Pajata\" is the term for the intestines of an unweaned calf, i.e., only fed on its mother's milk. The intestines are cleaned and skinned, but the chyme is left inside. Then the intestine is cut in pieces 20–25 cm long, which are bound together with white thread, forming rings. When cooked, the combination of heat and the enzyme rennet in the intestines coagulates the chyme and creates a sort of thick, creamy, cheese-like sauce. These rings can be served simply seasoned and grilled (\"pajata arrosto\") or in the traditional Roman dish in which pajata is stewed in a typical tomato sauce and served with rigatoni.\n"}
{"id": "2307117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307117", "title": "Gruffydd Robert", "text": "Gruffydd Robert\n\nGruffydd Robert (before 1532 – after 1598) was a Welsh priest in the Catholic Church and grammarian who wrote a pioneering Welsh grammar, in Welsh, while in enforced exile with his colleague and fellow-writer Morys Clynnog in Milan in 1567.\n\nHe was from North Wales, either from the Vale of Clwyd or Anglesey. He was awarded an MA degree from Christ Church, Oxford in 1555 before taking office as archdeacon of Anglesey in 1558. Shortly after his appointment Mary I of England died and Protestantism was re-introduced in England and Wales with the Supreme Law (1559). Catholicism remained strong in Wales and Gruffydd was among those who remained faithful to the old religion.\n\nGruffydd and Morys Clynnog went to the continent in exile after the accession of Elizabeth I of England. He travelled to other parts of the continent at that time, such as France and Germany. By January 1564 he was in Rome with Clynnog both having become chaplains in the English Hospital in Rome.\n\nBy 1567 when the first part of his grammar was published Gruffydd was employed by Cardinal Borromeo Archbishop of Milan. Gruffydd was referred to as a \"doctor\" by Anthony Munday and Morris Kyffin. He may have received a doctorate at Louvain, Belgium or during his time with Borromeo in Milan. He was confessor to Borromeo and a theological canon at Milan Cathedral. During the 1567 plague he worked as an assistant distributing alms with Borromeo. He stayed in Milan for almost twenty years in the service of Borromeo.\n\nIn 1582 Gruffydd requested retirement as theological canon probably because his Italian was not sufficiently fluent for preaching. There was no other position vacant so he received a pension in 1594. After Borromeo's death in November 1584 Gruffydd had more time to work on his grammar.\n\nThe first part of his grammar was published as \"Dosbarth Byrr ar y rhann gyntaf i ramadeg Gymraeg (A short lesson on the first part of Welsh Grammar)\" in Milan on Saint David's Day in 1567. The second part is likely to have appeared in 1584 or 1585. The first two parts use the form of a dialog in a vineyard between two friends, namely Gruffydd and Clynnog. The third part does not use this form, perhaps because Clynnog had drowned around 1581 and Borromeo, who is referred to as \"master\" or \"lord\" in the grammar had also died in 1584. The other parts are shorter: the fourth part discusses the measures of music; the fifth part gives a collection of poems; and the contents of the sixth part begin the translation of Cato Maior de Senectuteby Cicero.\n\n"}
{"id": "2307120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307120", "title": "WINP-TV", "text": "WINP-TV\n\nWINP-TV, virtual and UHF digital channel 16, is an Ion Television owned-and-operated station licensed to Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States. The station is owned by West Palm Beach, Florida-based Ion Media Networks. WINP's transmitter is located in Pittsburgh's Oakland neighborhood.\n\nOn cable, the station is available on Comcast Xfinity channels 4 (WTAE, which broadcasts over-the-air on virtual channel 4, is instead carried on channel 8) (standard definition) and 807 (high definition), and on Verizon FiOS channels 16 (SD) and 516 (HD).\n\nChannel 16 in Pittsburgh started as WENS-TV on August 31, 1953. The station was Pittsburgh's first ABC network affiliate, broadcasting from studios at 750 Ivory Avenue, in the city of Pittsburgh's Summer Hill section. WPGH-TV broadcasts from this location today.\n\nIn a market that was dominated by DuMont O&O WDTV by default, WENS-TV got off to a great start, even fending off original channel 53 broadcaster WKJF-TV. However, it wanted to broadcast on the more lucrative VHF band since it had longer range, and competed with several local broadcasters for the channel 11 license that would eventually be awarded to WIIC Incorporated (a joint venture of the \"Pittsburgh Post-Gazette\", which owned WWSW radio (970 AM, now WBGG), and Pittsburgh Radio Supply House, the then-owners of WJAS radio (1320 AM)). Even after the channel 11 license was awarded, WENS-TV contested the FCC's original decision. Additionally, a storm had damaged the tower in Reserve Township on March 11, 1955, leading to a channel sharing agreement with WQED until the tower could be fixed.\n\nThe lawsuits against WIIC Incorporated combined with the aforementioned tower problems proved to be too costly for WENS-TV, forcing the station to dump its locally produced programming and only operate for about six hours daily, airing only its network programming in pattern before leaving the air completely on August 31, 1957. By that point, the FCC reaffirmed the channel 11 license to WIIC Incorporated and they would sign the station on the very next day as WIIC-TV, now WPXI.\n\nWENS-TV's fight with the FCC proved to have a major impact on the major network affiliations in Pittsburgh. WIIC-TV was planning to affiliate with CBS while locally-based Westinghouse Electric Corporation, which had purchased WDTV from the ailing DuMont Network in late 1954, was planning to affiliate the renamed KDKA-TV with NBC due to Westinghouse Broadcasting's strong ties to that network as well as KDKA radio's decades-long affiliation with NBC Radio. (Westinghouse had been a co-founder of NBC in 1926.) However, WIIC-TV's delayed sign-on due to WENS-TV's appeal to the FCC led to Westinghouse clearing the higher-rated CBS programs on KDKA-TV instead and eventually signing on as that network's primary affiliate in Pittsburgh. One year after WENS-TV shut down, WTAE-TV signed on and took the ABC network affiliation. It is possible that had WENS-TV survived and had moved to the channel 11 allocation that WTAE-TV would have affiliated with NBC or CBS instead, depending on which network Westinghouse affiliated KDKA-TV with.\n\nThe station became WQEX in March 1959, after WQED acquired the station as a secondary station for televising educational programs; as WQEX had a non-commercial license, it marked a rare instance where there was a legal television duopoly that didn't involve one station being a satellite station to the other, more than four decades before duopolies for commercial stations became legal. The new WQEX moved its transmitter from Summer Hill to that of its new sister TV station, with both stations broadcasting from a dual \"candleabra\" style antenna standing above a single tower at 4802 Fifth Avenue in the Oakland section of Pittsburgh. WQED used its construction permit it had acquired for channel 22 to launch WQEX on channel 16 instead, with the Commercial Radio Institute eventually acquiring the WENS-TV permit to use for channel 22 to launch as WPTT (now WPNT) in 1978.\n\nWQEX went dark again in November 1961, but returned to the air over a year later, in January 1963. For much of its early years, owing in part to the experimental nature of UHF television, the station was plagued by a weak signal, operating at 171 kilowatts visual, and 34.2 kilowatts aural, resulting in a Grade B signal over most of Pittsburgh. A power increase in the 1970s to 264 kW visual and 52 kW aural did finally provide a city-grade signal to the city of Pittsburgh. However, the city's outlying suburbs that were unable to receive the station clearly on cable received a spotty to non-existent signal. However, the station was an afterthought, described as being run by hooking up two 3/4-inch videotape machines to an \"ancient transmitter\".\n\nAccording to MeTV, WQEX was the last station in Pittsburgh (and possibly the last in North America) to convert to color. For decades, the station broadcast with WENS's black-and-white transmitter. However, on March 10, 1985, the transmitter broke down completely, and the parts required to fix it were no longer available. With limited time to restore WQEX to the air and avoid forfeiture of the license, WQED diverted pledge monies to WQEX and also cut back its own broadcast hours in an attempt to lower its operating costs.\n\nUnder WQED managers Lloyd Kaiser and Jay Rayvid, the new WQEX was set up as an almost autonomous station within a station. A new, more powerful NEC color transmitter was signed on the air for testing over the summer of 1986 at an authorized power increase to 660 kW visual, and 66 kW aural. \n\nWQEX took over Studio C at WQED and built its entire studio, offices and technical space within the 36 by 32 foot area. It took six months from April 1, 1986 until launch on October 16, 1986 to build the station, train the personnel and organize the programming, all of this under the direction of Kenneth Tiven as general manager. Tiven, with years of experience in local television, produced a station unlike any other in the PBS system. Station management explained their extended time off the air between programs with a vignette called \"The Little Transmitter That Could... couldn't anymore.\" One Pittsburgh radio engineer said there was nothing little about the old transmitter, that it \"was the size of a Port Authority transit bus\".\n\nIn 1986, WQEX was one of the most automated stations in the world. It was the first station to adopt the then-state-of-the-art Beta tape technology and the Betacart player for airing all of its programs. Local programming by its competitors had been delivered on film, reel videotape and U-matic videocassettes. The Betacam professional format, which is different from the failed Betamax consumer format, produced a high-quality picture with crisp on-air resolution. The tape gained popularity among television stations not only because of its quality, but also because of its smaller size and ease of storage. In addition, the station designed a database system for managing the program playout. It was this list which told the Betacart machine what to do.\n\nIn its return to the air, WQEX's schedule resembled that of a commercial independent station, with reruns, movies and British situation comedies (often called \"Britcoms\"). The station even had on-camera hosts. Pip Theodor was one of several personalities who introduced the programs, similar to what was done on MTV and Britain's ITV.\n\nWhat was notable about the station during this era was its nightly sign-off. WQEX ended each night with a comedy sketch involving some men trying to make it home from a bar after 2 a.m., set to the song \"Always Look on the Bright Side of Life\" from Monty Python's \"The Life of Brian\". The sketch was accompanied by fake closing credits. Viewers could have their names in the credits by making a pledge to WQEX and becoming members of the \"QEX Sign-Off Society.\" The station's sign-on message also developed an on-air persona of its own, with the message followed by the 1955 Chuck Berry hit \"Sweet Little Sixteen\" introduced as a \"morning wake-up call from Mr. Charles Berry.\"\n\nFrom 1986 through to 1990, the station's quirky persona stayed intact. It produced a 10 p.m. news program from Monday through Friday, in conjunction with the reporting staff of the \"Pittsburgh Post-Gazette\" newspaper. Reporters were debriefed about their stories. These video clips were then played back in the Betacart automation system as a complete program. This innovation, called modular production, later became the keystone of several television news channels, including the Orange County Newschannel (OCN) and NY1. When funding became tight in the mid-1990s, WQED began using WQEX to simulcast its own programming as of November 1, 1997; some of the programming formerly exclusive to WQEX was consolidated into the WQED lineup at that time.\n\nDue to a combination of high costs of continuing national programming production, bloated payroll expenses, and what the station's critics identify as a top-heavy management structure and a long history of mismanagement, WQED's total liabilities at one point had mounted beyond $10 million. Station debts were being paid four months behind schedule and approximately 100 of the 220 staff jobs at WQED were abruptly eliminated. A station once respected for having originated programming such as \"Mister Rogers' Neighborhood\" and \"National Geographic\" specials was quickly finding itself relegated to the role of a primarily-local producer of educational programming.\n\nWQED began to seek a removal of the non-commercial educational status which restricted the WQEX license as early as 1996, with the intention of selling the secondary UHF station outright in the hope that an infusion of cash would solve some of the financial woes of the main station. WQED's initial application to take WQEX commercial was rejected outright by the Federal Communications Commission, leaving it to pursue an alternate plan by which the station was almost sold to religious broadcaster Cornerstone Television in 1999. The original plan was to move WPCB-TV from channel 40 (a commercial license) to channel 16 (non-commercial educational WQEX), with Paxson Communications buying channel 40 and converting it to a Pax TV affiliate with the call letters WKPX-TV. This move, which would have led to a $35 million payout being split equally between Cornerstone and WQED, was approved conditionally by the Federal Communications Commission in 2000, allegedly after lobbying by Republican Senator John McCain on behalf of Pax president Lowell Paxson, an intervention which Senator McCain would later deny having made. However, in response to vociferous concerns from members of the Pittsburgh local community, the FCC did impose one condition on the sale: half of Cornerstone's programming needed to be of educational value, effectively respecting the non-commercial educational condition of WQEX's existing license.\n\nCornerstone flatly refused, abruptly backing out of the proposed deal. Religious programming does not qualify as educational if it is \"primarily devoted to religious exhortation, proselytizing or statements of personally held religious views or beliefs,\" according to the FCC's ruling conditionally allowing religious broadcaster Cornerstone Television to take over WQEX and add educational content to the station. Although the FCC abruptly reversed its position less than a month later removing the condition in response to intense political and legislative pressure, Cornerstone withdrew its application and the sale was cancelled, keeping WQEX as a WQED simulcast.\n\nIn July 2002, the FCC abandoned its long-held position on instructional content, removing WQEX's non-commercial educational status outright in response to continued claims of economic hardship by WQED – hardships which the station has long blamed not on its own past management practices, but on the local economic situation and the long-term decline of Pittsburgh's industrial base.\n\nFrom 2004 to March 2007, WQEX brokered much of its airtime to America's Store, a discount shopping channel from the Home Shopping Network, along with repeats of WQED's news magazine, \"OnQ\", on Monday mornings. In January 2007, America's Store announced it would cease operations on April 3 of that year; WQEX switched its programming to ShopNBC on March 26. Rumors and actual proposals of a sale of WQEX came up from time to time, the most noteworthy of which was a proposed 2002 sale to Shooting Star Broadcasting, a company headed up by Pittsburgh native and former Shamrock Broadcasting president Diane Sutter, that was never consummated.\n\nOn November 8, 2010, WQED entered into a deal with Ion Media Networks (the former Paxson Communications) to sell WQEX to Ion for $3 million. The sale was consummated (after FCC approval) on May 2, 2011, at which time the station's call sign changed from WQEX to WINP-TV, making it the first Ion-owned station without the Pax-era \"PX\" in its call sign (the calls stand for IoN Pittsburgh or, to note one news article on the sale, \"WIN Pittsburgh Over\"). WINP-TV continued to carry ShopNBC programming to fill their contractual obligations; however, on October 1, 2011, it began carrying Ion Television on its main channel, with Ion Life and Qubo on subchannels. This is the network's first over-the-air presence in Pittsburgh, the largest media market in which Ion and its predecessors had never had an over-the-air signal (Pittsburgh was the 24th largest television market for 2010–2011, according to AC Nielsen).\n\nOn May 8, 2017, Sinclair Broadcast Group announced that it would acquire Tribune Media for $3.9 billion. The deal is expected to receive FCC approval sometime in the fourth quarter of 2017. The deal has brought concerns by Fox who see Sinclair as a competitor towards conservative-leaning news, as well as increased leverage by Sinclair on reverse compensation to air Fox programming.\n\nOn August 2, 2017, it was reported that Fox Television Stations was in talks with Ion Media to create a joint venture that would own their respective stations. The partnership was said to include plans to shift affiliations from Sinclair stations in favor of Ion-owned stations, such as those whose affiliation agreements are soon to expire. In Pittsburgh's case, this would include shifting Fox from longtime affiliate WPGH-TV to WINP-TV. This would mark the first Big Four television network affiliation switch in the Pittsburgh market since Westinghouse Electric Corporation purchased then-WDTV (now KDKA-TV) from the DuMont Television Network in late 1954 and dropped that station's DuMont programming in favor of CBS. It would also constitute the first threat of a Big Four affiliation change in Pittsburgh since Westinghouse mulled switching KDKA-TV to NBC during the 1994 United States broadcast TV realignment when its Group W arm was looking for a group affiliation deal. It is not known what would happen to Ion programming if a change is made, though it could move to a digital subchannel.\n\nThe chances of WINP-TV landing the Fox affiliation dimmed in October 2017 when Ion elected its stations to have must-carry status instead of retransmission consent, which the FCC ruled Ion must keep for three years. However, must-carry only applies to a main signal, allowing Fox to possibly affiliate with a digital subchannel on WINP-TV and other Ion stations. WPGH-TV is now expected to keep Fox programming under Sinclair, leaving WINP-TV as-is for the foreseeable future.\n\nWINP (as WQEX) shut down its analog signal, over UHF channel 16, on February 17, 2009, the original target date in which full-power television stations in the United States were to transition from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate, the deadline had later been extended to June 12.\n\nSometime between April 1 and the new June 12 deadline, the station moved its digital signal from its pre-transition UHF channel 26 to channel 38; channel 38 was used for the digital signal of now-former sister station WQED until April 1 after the end of its annual PBS pledge drive in March. The early signoff for WQED gave the station time to move its own digital signal to channel 13. Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display the station's virtual channel as its former UHF analog channel 16. WQEX was one of three stations in the Pittsburgh market to shut down their analog signals on the original transition date, alongside the Sinclair Broadcast Group duopoly of WPGH-TV and WPMY.\n\n"}
{"id": "2307121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307121", "title": "Wilhelm Stekel", "text": "Wilhelm Stekel\n\nWilhelm Stekel (; 18 March 1868 – 25 June 1940) was an Austrian physician and psychologist, who became one of Sigmund Freud's earliest followers, and was once described as \"Freud's most distinguished pupil\". According to Ernest Jones, \"Stekel may be accorded the honour, together with Freud, of having founded the first psycho-analytic society\"; while he also described him as \"a naturally gifted psychologist with an unusual flair for detecting repressed material.\" He later had a falling-out with Freud, who announced in November 1912 that \"Stekel is going his own way\".\nHis works are translated and published in many languages.\n\nBorn in Boiany, Bukovina, he wrote a book called \"Auto-erotism: A Psychiatric Study of Onanism and Neurosis\", first published in English in 1950. He is also credited with coining the term \"paraphilia\" to replace \"perversion\". He analysed, among others, the psychoanalysts Otto Gross and A. S. Neill, as well as Freud's first biographer, Fritz Wittels. The latter paid tribute to \"his strange ease in understanding\" but commented, \"The trouble with Stekel's analysis was that it almost invariably reached an impasse when the so-called negative transference grew stronger\". His autobiography was published in 1950.\n\nStekel made significant contributions to symbolism in dreams, \"as successive editions of \"The Interpretation of Dreams\" attest, with their explicit acknowledgement of Freud's debt to Stekel\": \"the works of Wilhelm Stekel and others...since taught me to form a truer estimate of the extent and importance of symbolism in dreams\".\n\nConsidering obsessional doubts, Stekel said,\nIn anxiety the libido is transformed into organic and somatic symptoms; in doubt, the libido is transformed into intellectual symptoms. The more intellectual someone is, the greater will be the doubt component of the transformed forces. Doubt becomes pleasure sublimated as intellectual achievement.\n\nStekel wrote one of a set of three early \"Psychoanalytic studies of psychical impotence\" referred to approvingly by Freud: \"Freud had written a preface to Stekel's book\". Related to this may be Stekel's \"elaboration of the idea that everyone, and in particular neurotics, has a peculiar form of sexual gratification which is alone adequate\".\n\nFreud credited Stekel as a potential forerunner when pondering the possibility that (for obsessional neurotics) \"in the order of development hate is the precursor of love. This is perhaps the meaning of an assertion by Stekel (1911 [\"Die Sprache des Traumes\"], 536), which at the time I found incomprehensible, to the effect that hate and not love is the primary emotional relation between men\". The same work is credited by Otto Fenichel as establishing 'the symbolic significance of right and left...\"right\" meaning \"correct\" and \"left\" meaning \"wrong\" '. Less flatteringly, Fenichel also associated it with \"a comparatively large school of pseudo analysis which held that the patient should be 'bombarded' with 'deep interpretations,'\" a backhanded tribute to the extent of Stekel's early following in the wake of his break with Freud.\n\nStekel contrasted what he called \"normal fetishes\" from extreme interests: \"They become pathological only when they have pushed the whole love object into the background and themselves appropriate the function of a love object, e.g., when a lover satisfies himself with the possession of a woman's shoe and considers the woman herself as secondary or even disturbing and superfluous (p. 3).\nStekel also deals differently than Freud with the problem of perversion. A lot of perversions are defense mechanisms (Schutzbauten) of the moral “self”; they represent hidden forms of asceticism. To Freud, the primal sexual venting meant health, while neuroses were created because of repressing sexual drives. Stekel, on the other hand, points out the significance of the repressed religious “self” in neuroses and indicates that apart from the repressed sexuality type, there is also a repressed morality type. This type is created in the conditions of sexual licentiousness while being opposed to doing it at the same time.\nIn the latter instance, 'Stekel holds that fetichism is the patient's unconscious religion'. \"Normal\" fetishes for Stekel contributed more broadly to choice of lifestyle: thus \"choice of vocation was actually an attempt to solve mental conflicts through the displacement of them\", so that doctors for Stekel were \"voyeurs who have transferred their original sexual current into the art of diagnosis\".\n\nComplaining of Freud's tendency to indiscretion, Ernest Jones wrote that he had told him \"the nature of Stekel's sexual perversion, which he should not have and which I have never repeated to anyone\". Stekel's \"elaboration of the idea that everyone, and in particular every neurotic, has a peculiar form of sexual gratification which is alone adequate\" may thus have been grounded in personal experience.\n\nOn sado-masochism, \"Stekel has described the essence of the sadomasochistic act to be humiliation\".\n\nIn \"The Ego and the Id\", Freud wrote of the \"high-sounding phrase, 'every fear is ultimately the fear of death'\" — associated with Stekel (1908) — that it \"has hardly any meaning, and at any rate cannot be justified\", evidence perhaps (as with psychic impotence and love/hate) of his continuing engagement with the thought of his former associate.\n\nStekel \"was also an innovator in technique...devis[ing] a form of short-term therapy called active analysis which has much in common with some modern form of counselling and therapy\".\n\nStekel maintained that \"in every child there slumbered a creative artist\". In connection with the psychoanalytic examination of the roots of art, however, he emphasised that \"...the Freudian interpretation, no matter how far it be carried, never offers even the rudest criterion of 'artistic' excellence...we are investigating only the impulse which drives people to create\". Analyzing the dreams of artists and non-artists alike, Stekel pointed out that \"at the level of symbol production the poet does not differ from the most prosaic soul...Is it not remarkable that the great poet Goethe and the unknown little woman...should have constructed such similar dreams?\".\n\nStekel committed suicide in London by taking an overdose of Aspirin \"to end the pain of his prostate and the diabetic gangrene\". He was cremated at Golders Green Crematorium on 29 June 1940. His ashes lie in section 3-V of the Garden of Remembrance but there is no memorial.\n\nHe was married twice and left two children. Stekel's autobiography was published posthumously, edited by his former personal assistant Emil Gutheil and his wife Hilda Binder Stekel. She died in 1969.\n\nA biographical account appeared in \"The Self-Marginalization of Wilhem Stekel\" (2007) by Jaap Bos and Leendert Groenendijk, which also includes his correspondence with Sigmund Freud. See also L. Mecacci, \"Freudian Slips: The Casualties of Psychoanalysis from the Wolf Man to Marilyn Monroe\", Vagabond Voices 2009, pp. 101\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307127", "title": "Dhani Ram Chatrik", "text": "Dhani Ram Chatrik\n\nDhani Ram Chatrik (4 October 1876 – 18 December 1954) was an Indian poet and typographer.\n\nHe is considered one of the pioneers of modern Punjabi poetry. He promoted Punjabi culture, language and publications through his life. In 1926, he became the President of Punjabi Sahit Sabha, a Punjabi Literary Society.\n\nHe was born in village Pasian-wala, district Sheikhupura (now in Pakistan). His father Pohu Lal, was an ordinary shopkeeper. His father moved to village Lopoke in search for work. His father taught him Gurmukhi and Urdu scripts. Dhaniram grew fond of calligraphy and went to Bombay to learn Gurmukhi typography. Though a Hindu by birth, he became an admirer of the Sikh faith after he came in contact with the major Punjabi poet of that era Bhai Vir Singh. After this meeting he felt inspired to write verses in the Punjabi Language.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307130", "title": "Monomakh's Cap", "text": "Monomakh's Cap\n\nMonomakh's Cap (), also called the Golden Cap (), is a chief relic of the Russian Grand Princes and Tsars. It is a symbol-crown of the Russian autocracy, and is the oldest of the crowns currently exhibited at the Imperial treasury section of the Kremlin Armoury. Monomakh's Cap is an early 14th-century gold filigree skullcap composed of eight sectors, elaborately ornamented with a scrolled gold overlay, inlaid with precious stones (ruby and emerald) and pearls, and trimmed with sable. The cap is surmounted by a simple gold cross with pearls at each of the extremities.\n\nThe main hypothesis is of old-Moscow origin. One of the others is it Central Asian origin (from ethnological or cultural point of view) has led some modern scholars to view the crown as a gift from Uzbeg Khan of the Golden Horde to his brother-in-law, Ivan Kalita of Moscow during the period of the Tatar yoke in Russia. Boris Uspensky, in particular, argues that the Tatar headgear was originally used in coronation ceremonies to signify the Muscovite ruler's subordination to the khan. According to Sergey Solovyov \"after the death of Ivan Kalita all Russian princes traveled to the Horde... and the Khan announced the eldest son of Kalita, Simeon, the Grand Prince of Vladimir\". Also Solovyov writes that the first who introduced the coronation of the Russian monarch was Ivan III and it took place in 1498. At some point in the 15th or 16th century the crown was surmounted by a cross.\n\nAfter Russia overcame the period of feudal fragmentation and Ivan III of Moscow and Vladimir asserted his position as successor to the Roman emperors, there arose a legend that the cap had been presented by the Byzantine emperor Constantine IX Monomachus to his grandson Vladimir Monomakh, the founder of the city of Vladimir and patrilineal ancestor of Ivan III. The legend was elaborated in \"The Tale of the Princes of Vladimir\" and served as one of the grounds for the \"Moscow as the Third Rome\" political theory. Accordingly, the crown became known as \"Monomakh's Cap\", the term first recorded in a Russian document from 1518. However the fact that Constantine IX Monomachus died 50 years before the coronation of Vladimir Monomakh makes the statement really a legend. The first version of the orient origin of the Cap (Uzbeg Khan) was suggested by George Vernadsky. Vernadsky was pointing to an interesting fact that according to Paul Pelliot Özbäg can be interpreted as a freeman (maître de sa personne). \n\nProfessor Kramarovsky who was specifically interested in the origin of the cap remarks that according to the technology of the headwear production the origin of the cap is either out of the Volga cities or Crimea where the school of Golden Horde filigree had developed. According to Aleksandr Andreevich Spitsyn possibly the cap was initially topped with the similar cross of the Jani Beg crown, however the German ambassador of the Holy Roman Emperor Maximilian I, Sigismund von Herberstein (notorious for his Notes on Muscovite Affairs) does not support that fact. \n\nAfter Ivan the Terrible had himself crowned the first Russian Tsar with this headgear, the Polish king asked him to explain the meaning of his new title. To that Ivan replied that whoever is crowned with Monomakh's Cap is traditionally called a tsar, because it was a gift from a tsar (i.e., Constantine IX) who had sent the Metropolitan of Ephesus to Kiev to crown Vladimir Monomakh with this cap. Ivan was presumably not aware that at the time of Constantine IX Monomachus' death, Vladimir Monomakh was only two years old and he was not the Kievan sovereign yet.\n\nThe Monomakh Cap was last used in the dual coronation of Ivan V and Peter the Great in 1682, though it was carried in the coronation procession thereafter. When Peter assumed the title of emperor, a new western-style crown was fashioned, but was not used in a coronation until that of Catherine I.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307133", "title": "Fort Dodge Regional Airport", "text": "Fort Dodge Regional Airport\n\nFort Dodge Regional Airport is a city owned public use airport located three nautical miles (6 km) north of the central business district of Fort Dodge, a city in Webster County, Iowa, United States. It is mostly used for general aviation, but is also served by one commercial airline, a service which is subsidized by the federal government's Essential Air Service program at a cost of $3,892,174 (per year).\n\nThe National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems for 2017–2021 categorized it as a \"non-primary commercial service\" airport.\n\nMesaba Airlines, operating as Delta Connection, formerly had daily service to Minneapolis-St. Paul with a stop in Mason City. Effective June 10, 2010, the stop in Mason City ended and Fort Dodge had nonstop flights to Minneapolis-St. Paul.\n\nGreat Lakes Airlines announced began service from Fort Dodge to Minneapolis/St. Paul to replace service by Delta Connection effective April 10, 2012. Great Lakes service ended January 31, 2014.\n\nAir Choice One announced it would begin service from Fort Dodge to Chicago O'Hare to replace service by Great Lakes Airlines on February 23, 2015.\n\nFort Dodge Regional Airport covers an area of 967 acres (391 ha) at an elevation of 1,156 feet (352 m) above mean sea level. It has two asphalt paved runways: 6/24 is 6,547 by 150 feet (1,996 x 46 m) and 12/30 is 5,301 by 100 feet (1,616 x 30 m).\n\nFor the 12-month period ending June 30, 2019, the airport had 21,216 aircraft operations, an average of 58 per day: 83% general aviation, 14% scheduled commercial, 2% air taxi and 1% military. In May 2020, there were 22 aircraft based at this airport: 20 single-engine and 2 multi-engine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307149", "title": "Logan Heights, San Diego", "text": "Logan Heights, San Diego\n\nLogan Heights is a neighborhood in central San Diego, California. It is bordered by Interstate 5 on the south and west, Interstate 15 on the east, and Imperial Avenue on the north.\n\nIn 1871, Congressman John A. Logan wrote legislation to provide federal land grants and subsidies for a transcontinental railroad ending in San Diego. A street laid in 1881 was named Logan Heights after him, and the name came to be applied to the general area. Plans for a railroad never successfully materialized, and the area was predominantly residential by the start of the 20th century, becoming one of San Diego's oldest communities. Its transformation began in 1910 with the influx of refugees of the Mexican Revolution, who soon became the majority ethnic group. For this reason, the southern part of the original Logan Heights neighborhood came to be called Barrio Logan.\n\nIt is part of City Council District 8 and is represented by Councilman David Alvarez. The city is currently (2010) updating the community plan.\n\nBarrio Logan is known as the home of Chicano Park. A new Logan Heights branch of the San Diego Public Library opened in 2007. .\n\n\n4. sandiegohistory.org/journal, click on Norman Baynard's Logan Heights 1939 - 1985, plus other journals on blacks in Logan Heights and San Diego\n"}
{"id": "2307151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307151", "title": "W88", "text": "W88\n\nThe W88 is a United States thermonuclear warhead, with an estimated yield of 475 kilotons (kt), and is small enough to fit on MIRVed missiles. The W88 was designed at the Los Alamos National Laboratory in the 1970s. In 1999, the director of Los Alamos who had presided over its design described it as \"the most advanced U.S. nuclear warhead\". As of 2014, the latest version is called the W88 ALT 370, and the first production unit is scheduled for December 2019. The Trident II submarine-launched ballistic missile (SLBM) can be armed with up to 8 W88 warheads (Mark 5 re-entry vehicle) or 12 100 kt W76 warheads (Mark 4 re-entry vehicle), but it is limited to 8 warheads under the Strategic Offensive Reductions Treaty.\n\nMuch of the work was done on the warhead by Los Alamos National Laboratory before the introduction of the Threshold Test Ban Treaty in 1976. A production run of 4000 to 5000 warheads was initially envisioned but production was halted after the November 1989 raid on the Rocky Flats Plant by the FBI. Consideration was given to restarting production but the program was terminated in January 1992. Final production was approximately 400 warheads.\n\nInformation about the W88 has implied that it is a variation of the standard Teller–Ulam design for thermonuclear weapons. In a thermonuclear weapon such as the W88, nuclear fission in the \"primary\" part causes nuclear fusion in the \"secondary\" part, which results in the main explosion. Although the weapon employs fusion in the secondary, most of the explosive yield comes from fission of nuclear material in the primary, secondary, and casing.\n\nIn 1999, the \"San Jose Mercury News\" reported that the W88 had an egg-shaped \"primary\" and a spherical \"secondary\", which were together inside a radiation case known as the \"peanut\" for its shape. Four months later, \"The New York Times\" reported that in 1995 a supposed double agent from the People's Republic of China delivered information indicating that China knew these details about the W88 warhead as well, supposedly through espionage (this line of investigation eventually resulted in the abortive trial of Wen Ho Lee). If these stories are true, it would indicate a variation of the Teller-Ulam design which would allow for the miniaturization required for small MIRVed warheads.\n\nThe value of an egg-shaped primary lies apparently in the fact that a MIRV warhead is limited by the diameter of the primary—if an egg-shaped primary can be made to work properly, then the MIRV warhead can be made considerably smaller yet still deliver a high-yield explosion—a W88 warhead manages to yield up to 475 kt with a physics package 68.9 in (1.75 m) long, with a maximum diameter of 21.8 in (0.55 m), and by different estimates weighing in a range from 175<ref name=\"W88/W76 weight\"></ref> to 360 kg. The smaller warhead allows more of them to fit onto a single missile and improves basic flight properties such as speed and range.\n\nThe calculations for a nonspherical primary are apparently orders of magnitude more difficult than for a spherical primary. A spherically symmetric simulation is one-dimensional, while an axially symmetric simulation is two dimensional. Simulations typically divide up each dimension into discrete segments, so a one-dimensional simulation might involve only 100 points, while a similarly accurate two dimensional simulation would require 10,000. This would likely be the reason they would be desirable for a country like the People's Republic of China, which already developed its own nuclear and thermonuclear weapons, especially since they were no longer conducting nuclear testing which would provide valuable design information.\nThe case is filled with a lightweight foam material, believed to be an aerogel known as FOGBANK.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307156", "title": "W76", "text": "W76\n\nThe W76 is a United States thermonuclear warhead, designed for use on the UGM-96 Trident I sea-launched ballistic missiles (SLBMs) and subsequently moved to the UGM-133 Trident II as Trident I was phased out of service. The first variant, the W76 mod 0 (W76-0) was manufactured from 1978 to 1987, and was gradually replaced by the W76 mod 1 (W76-1) between 2008 and 2018, completely replacing the Mod 0 in the active stockpile. In 2018 it was announced that some Mod 1 warheads would be converted to a new low-yield W76 mod 2 (W76-2) version. The first Mod 2 warheads were deployed in late 2019.\n\nThe warhead was initially manufactured from 1978 to 1987 and designed by Los Alamos National Laboratory. It was initially fitted to the Trident I SLBM system, but after the Rocky Flats plant where its successor the W88 was being made was shut down in 1989 after a production run of only 400 warheads, it was decided to transfer W76 warheads to Trident II.\n\nA life extension program (LEP) for 800 warheads was approved by the US government in 2000, then later increased to 2,000. The purpose of the LEP was extend service life by 20 years and add new safety features. Production on the W76-1 started in September 2008 and the National Nuclear Security Administration completed updating all W76-0 warheads to the W76-1 design in December 2018.\n\nThe 2018 Nuclear Posture Review announced that a new variant, the W76-2, would be manufactured. The W76-2 variant is described as a low-yield warhead, estimated at about 5-7 kilotons of TNT equivalent. The National Nuclear Security Administration announced that it had started to manufacture the W76-2 in January 2019. Initial operating capability was expected in the final quarter of 2019, and manufacturing is expected to last through FY2024 at the Pantex Plant. According to FAS, the W76-2 warhead was first deployed with during its late 2019 operational patrol. The US Department of Defense confirmed in February 2020 that W76-2 had been 'fielded'.\n\nThe warhead is currently the most numerous weapon in the US nuclear arsenal, having replaced the 50 kt W68 that was fitted to the Poseidon SLBM in that capacity.\n\nThe W76-0 had a design yield of 100 kt while its replacement the W76-1 has a yield of 90 kt. The W76-2 has an estimated yield of 5 to 7 kt.\n\nThe W78-0 was fitted inside a Mk4 reentry vehicle (reentry \"body\" in US Navy parlance) while the W76-1 and -2 are fitted inside the new Mk4A reentry vehicle. Reentry vehicle and warhead weight is estimated to be approximately 95kg.<ref name=\"W88/W76 weight\"></ref>\n\nDuring the W76-1 LEP, the warhead was fitted with a new MC4700 arming, fuzing and firing (AF&F) system. The MC4700 AF&F system increases warhead kill probabilities against hard targets such as silos and bunkers and achieves this by detonating the warhead over the target if its on-board computer calculates that it has overshot its target. In comparison, a warhead without such a smart fuze would, when overshooting a target, continue flying, leaving the half-sphere above the target where detonating would destroy the target, and crash into the ground where the warhead's impact fuze would detonate the warhead, outside the kill radius.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307157", "title": "The Restaurant School at Walnut Hill College", "text": "The Restaurant School at Walnut Hill College\n\nThe Restaurant School at Walnut Hill College is a private, for-profit culinary school in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. It was founded in 1974 as America's first private college to offer career training in fine dining and the luxury hospitality industry. The college offers four majors: Culinary Arts, Restaurant Management, Pastry Arts and Hotel Management. The majors are offered at the Associate and Bachelor's degree levels.\n\nLocated in the University City section of Philadelphia the campus features four open-to-the-public student-run restaurants, a pastry shop, bookstore and gift shop, and a student cafe. The college offers on-site housing for students.\n\nSpecial features are travel experiences which are included in the tuition. All Culinary and Pastry students in the associate degree participate in a week-long gastronomic tour of France. Restaurant and Hotel Management students participate in a week-long hospitality tour that includes behind-the-scenes tours of Walt Disney World Resort and other central Florida resorts followed by a cruise to the Bahamas. Students that continue their studies towards a bachelor's degree participate in a week-long Hospitality Tour of England.\n"}
{"id": "2307160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307160", "title": "National Eagle Scout Association", "text": "National Eagle Scout Association\n\nThe National Eagle Scout Association (NESA, pronounced \"nee sah\") is an organization of individuals who have earned the rank of Eagle Scout in the Boy Scouts of America. NESA's stated objective is \"to serve Eagle Scouts and, through them, the entire movement of Scouting.\"\n\nThe Knights of Dunamis was an honor society of Eagle Scouts founded in San Francisco on April 19, 1925 by Scout Executive Raymond O. Hanson. The Knights of Dunamis, named after the Greek \"power\" or \"spirit\". served as a service organization for local Scout councils and also hosted occasional social events. To gain admittance to the Knights of Dunamis (KD), the Eagle Scout had to participate in a large or significant service project, in addition to the one that the Scout had to perform to gain his Eagle Scout award. The Knights awarded a special honor of their own, the Knights Eagle Award. For about forty years after its founding, the national leadership of the BSA had an ambivalent attitude toward the Knights. From a peak of 110 chapters, there were only 37 chapters by 1971. In 1972 the Knights of Dunamis was merged into the BSA and became the National Eagle Scout Association.\n\nMembership is available on a five-year renewable or a lifetime basis to all Eagle Scouts. NESA cross-checks applications to ensure all applicants are Eagle Scouts. \"Eagles' Call\" magazine, formerly \"Eagle Scout Magazine\" and still earlier called \"The Eagletter\", is a quarterly magazine published by NESA that helps keep its members informed of NESA activities and functions.\n\nNESA administers several scholarships for Eagle Scouts both academic and merit.\n\nAcademic scholarships are based on school and Scouting participation, academic performance, and financial need. Applicants must score a minimum 1800 SAT or 28 ACT to apply. These include a varying number of $5,000 NESA scholarships, and a varying number of Mabel and Lawrence S. Cooke scholarships. The Mabel and Lawrence S. Cooke scholarships are awarded annually and include four $25,000 scholarships (payable at $6,250 per year) and one $48,000 scholarship (up to $12,000 payable for four years), plus a varying number of others.\n\nNESA offers an additional academic scholarship called the $50,000 NESA STEM scholarship (up to $12,500 payable for four years) to an applicant who plans to major in a science, technology, engineering, or math field.\n\nThe second type of NESA scholarships are the merit scholarships. Merit scholarships are based on school and Scouting participation, and community service. These awards cover the $2,000 and $4,000 Bailey scholarships, the $2,500 Robert and Rebecca Palmer scholarships, and the $5,000 Hall/McElwain merit scholarships. Each BSA region reviews applications and awards a varying number of these scholarships to local Scouts.\n\nNESA merit scholarship applicants must be Eagle Scouts graduating high school or undergraduate college students no farther than completion of the junior year. Recipients may receive the scholarship one time only.\n\nIn 2018 NESA awarded approximately $750,000. in scholarships.\n\nIn addition many of the Local Committees have smaller scholarship programs and a number of specific scholarships are awarded by religious, civic/military groups and many colleges and universities. A complete list and application instructions can be found at NESA's website. \n\nShortly after the National Eagle Scout Association was established in 1972, it began to make available a NESA Scoutmaster Award. The award was presented to one Scoutmaster per BSA area each year. These Scoutmasters' records demonstrated proper use of Boy Scout advancement, and a significant number of their Boy Scouts attained the Eagle Scout rank. This award was discontinued on December 31, 1987.\n\nThe president of the Boy Scouts of America requested that NESA convert its award into a Scoutmaster Award of Merit that could be earned by all Scoutmasters. The award used a white knot for uniform wear. His rationale was that there is a need for recognizing Scoutmasters relatively early in their work in that position, before they qualify for the Scouter's Key. This was discontinued in 2009 and replace by the Unit Leader's Award of Merit no longer a NESA Award since it covers all of Scouting.\n\nThe Distinguished Eagle Scout Award (DESA) was created in 1969 and is awarded to an Eagle Scout for distinguished service in his profession and to his community for a period of at least 25 years after attaining the rank of Eagle Scout. Other requirements include significant accomplishment in one's career and a solid record of continued community volunteer involvement. After 48 years, a total of 2,218 DESAs have been awarded through the end of 2017.\n\nIn 2008, NESA introduced a knot recognizing those Eagle Scouts who are life members of NESA; it uses the standard Eagle Scout square knot emblem with a silver border.\n\nThe Glenn A. and Melinda W. Adams National Eagle Scout Service Project of the Year Award (ESSPY) was created in 2010 to \"recognize valuable service of an exceptional nature by a Scout to a religious institution, a school, community, or other entity.\" It is presented at council, regional, and national levels.\n\nThe NESA Outstanding Eagle Scout Award (NOESA) was created in 2010 (and first awarded in 2011) to recognize Eagle Scouts who have demonstrated outstanding achievement at the local, state, or regional level. After 7 years, a total of 1,928 NOESAs have been awarded through the end of 2017.\n\nLocal NESA committees may be formed at the council level to promote social activities and service opportunities. Committees often conduct Eagle Scout and Distinguished Eagle Scout recognition events and Scouting Alumni outreach.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307161", "title": "Sonbong County", "text": "Sonbong County\n\nSonbong County, formerly called Unggi (Chosŏn'gŭl: 웅기, Hancha: 雄基), is a subdivision of the North Korean city of Rason. It is located at the northeastern extreme of North Korea, bordering Russia and China. It lies on Unggi Bay, an extension of the Sea of Japan (East Sea of Korea). A uranium mine is allegedly located there, as is a 200 megawatt oil-fired power plant. The word Sonbong means \"Vanguard\" in Korean.\n\nThe Sonbong Revolutionary Site there is dedicated to a visit by Kim Jong-suk in November 1945 \"upholding the policy of building a new country advanced by President Kim Il Sung\" after the liberation of Korea. It includes the Sonbong Revolutionary Museum, a monument to the historic site, and the house where she stayed.\n\nSonbong is North Korea's rail link to Russia. A rail bridge crosses the Tumen River between the border rail stations of Tumangang Workers' District, Sonbong, and Khasan, Russia. This connection lies on one of two proposed paths for linking South Korea by rail to the Trans-Siberian Railroad and the rest of Eurasia, the other being through Sinuiju. The rail link through Sonbong is lightly used, carrying only 10,000 passengers in 2005.\n\nSonbong is one terminus of the Hambuk Line railroad. It is also served by roads.\n\nThere is a seaport and a wharf at Sonbong Port.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307179", "title": "Gag bit", "text": "Gag bit\n\nThe gag bit is a type of bit for a horse. Because the cheek piece and reins attach to different rings (instead of freely moving on the same ring, like in a snaffle bit) there is leverage action. Severity of leverage action depends on where the reins attach. For example, in a Dutch Gag, the further the rein attachment from the mouthpiece the greater the leverage. The gag bit is related to a Pelham bit and a double bridle but the gag bit has no curb strap.\n\nSome styles of gag bit are integral to a special bridle, known as a gag bridle; others are used with a standard bridle. Inside the horse's mouth, the gag bit may be jointed like a snaffle bit or smooth like a Mullen mouth bit.\n\nThe gag bit works on the horse's lips and poll simultaneously. The pressure on the lips tends to make the horse raise its head, which is useful for a horse that tends to lean on the bit. Gag bits are used mainly for horses that are strong pullers or for horses that need retraining. Gag bits are most commonly seen in polo, eventing (especially for cross-country), show jumping, and hacking, mainly for increased control at times where a horse may be excited or try to run off with the rider.\n\nThey can also be used to help elevate a horse that is heavy on its front end.\n\nThey are not permitted at any level of dressage, since dressage riders are trying to get the horse to come down onto the bit, and want to encourage the horse to accept contact. Additionally, the horse is supposed to be completely submissive in dressage, and a gag bit gives the impression that it is not. Gags are also never seen in the hunter arena, again because riders wish to portray that the horse is an easy ride, and because the ideal is a long, relaxed frame with the neck stretched out, rather than a high neck.\n\nGag bits are also occasionally seen in western-style competition, usually in the form of a sliding mouthpiece on a shanked curb-style bit (similar to the American gag).\n\nThe gag bit normally is used with two sets of reins; one on the bit ring that does not apply gag leverage, and the other on the small ring attached to the cord or rolled leather strap of the gag bridle cheekpiece. This allows for the bit to be used as a normal snaffle, with gag action used only when needed. Polo players, who must ride with the reins in one hand and cannot make instant fine adjustments, often use a gag bit with draw reins.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307189", "title": "Alfred FitzRoy, 8th Duke of Grafton", "text": "Alfred FitzRoy, 8th Duke of Grafton\n\nAlfred William Maitland FitzRoy, 8th Duke of Grafton (3 March 1850 – 10 January 1930), styled Lord Alfred FitzRoy between 1882 and 1912 and Earl of Euston between 1912 and 1918, was the second son of Augustus FitzRoy, 7th Duke of Grafton and his wife Anna Balfour, daughter of James Balfour (-1845) and aunt of Arthur Balfour. His elder brother and heir to the dukedom Henry James FitzRoy, Earl of Euston died in 1912, before their father's death.\n\nHe married, firstly, Margaret Rose Smith (1855–1913), on 27 April 1875 and had three children:\n\nThe 8th Duke married, secondly, Susanna Mary McTaggart-Stewart (1878–1961), on 8 January 1916 and had two daughters:\n\n\nOn 15 March 1920, he was appointed a deputy lieutenant of Suffolk.\n\nThe Duke died in 1930 and was succeeded by his grandson, John, Earl of Euston.\n"}
{"id": "2307190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307190", "title": "Mason City Municipal Airport", "text": "Mason City Municipal Airport\n\nMason City Municipal Airport is located six miles west of downtown Mason City, in Cerro Gordo County, Iowa. It is in the northern part of Lake Township, just east of the city of Clear Lake. It is used for general aviation and has airline service subsidized through the Essential Air Service (EAS) program.\n\nThe National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems for 2017–2021 categorized it as a non-primary commercial service airport.\n\nOn February 2, 1942 Mason City decided to build a new airport and purchased 312 acres several miles west of the city. The new Mason City Municipal Airport saw its first official landing on March 29, 1945. The airport had two paved runways, associated taxiways, and a small ramp area. A remodeled farmhouse was used as the first terminal during the dedication on June 22, 1946.\n\nAirline flights began in 1946, on Mid-Continent; successor Braniff left in 1959. Ozark started in 1955 and pulled out in 1983 – no big airlines since then.\n\nMusicians Buddy Holly, Ritchie Valens, and J.P. \"The Big Bopper\" Richardson, along with pilot Roger Peterson, died in a plane crash after taking off from Mason City Municipal Airport in the early morning hours of February 3, 1959, after a concert at the Surf Ballroom in nearby Clear Lake. This event is not commemorated anywhere on the airport grounds; a private monument is near the crash site.\n\nThe airport covers 1,103 acres (446 ha) at an elevation of 1,214 feet (370 m). It has two asphalt runways: 18/36 is 6,501 by 150 feet (1,982 x 46 m) and 12/30 is 5,502 by 150 feet (1,677 x 46 m).\n\nIn the year ending June 30, 2018 the airport had 33,600 aircraft operations, an average of 92 per day: 89% general aviation, 11% air taxi and less than 1% military. In May 2020, there were 48 aircraft based at this airport: 41 single-engine, 4 multi-engine and 3 jet.\n\nIn 2005 the airport was awarded a $4,559,986 federal grant to rehabilitate a runway and relocate a localizer out of a runway safety area.\n\nIn 2007 the airport received a $1 million federal grant to help purchase a perimeter fence around its runways.\n\nIn 2009 the airport commission received a $820,916 federal grant to rehabilitate the airport's parking lot and for a Master Abstract Title Opinion study for the airport.\n\nIn 2010 the airport received $24,463 in federal funding for runway incursion markings.\n\nA 2011 federal grant provided $115,865 for apron rehabilitation.\n\nIn 2012 the airport received a federal grant of $886,604 for the rehabilitation of its parking lot pavement.\n\nA 2013 federal grant paid for $540,000 of snow removal equipment for the airport.\n\nIn 2014 the airport was awarded $601,317 in federal grants for improvements to its infrastructure.\n\nAir Choice One started service from Mason City to Chicago O'Hare International Airport on November 17, 2014, Flights to St. Louis Lambert International Airport began in February 23, 2015, and flights to Minneapolis–Saint Paul International Airport began in November 2016.\n\nEarlier, Mason City had airline service on Great Lakes Airlines and Mesaba Airlines.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307193", "title": "Battle of Alberta", "text": "Battle of Alberta\n\nThe Battle of Alberta is a term applied to the intense rivalry between the Canadian cities of Calgary, the province's most populous (since 1976) city, and Edmonton, the capital (since 1905) of the province of Alberta. Most often it is used to describe sporting events between the two cities, although this is not exclusive as the rivalry predates organized sports in Alberta.\n\nHarvey Locke identifies a longstanding cultural divide in Alberta between the centre and north on one hand and the south on the other as a recurring theme in the province's history going back to pre-contact Aboriginal cultures. The peoples of the boreal forest, and to a lesser extent, the aspen parkland, led a subarctic lifestyle which involved trapping fur-bearing animals and travelling by canoe, which made the region a natural fit for the fur trade. By contrast the plains cultures on the prairie to the south relied on the buffalo. The predominant political force on the prairie during the fur trade, the Blackfoot Confederacy, would not allow the Hudson's Bay Company to establish itself within Blackfoot territory, preferring to ride to Edmonton House (established 1795) to trade. Around this time some Cree and allied peoples (the Iron Confederacy) pushed south onto the plains, and became rivals of the Blackfoot. By the 1810s, explorer Peter Fidler identified the Battle River as a disputed frontier between the two groups. Locke asserts that the lack of an HBC presence in the south set the stage for very different patterns of settlement in the different regions. Calgary was founded as a North-West Mounted Police fort and was not much of a settlement at all until the mid-1880s when the Canadian Pacific Railway suddenly shifted its planned route across Western Canada from a northern one (via Edmonton) to a more southerly path (via Calgary). Therefore, the economic and cultural origins of Calgary and its region, were created up by the NWMP and the CPR, not the HBC. Because of the CPR line, Calgary's agricultural hinterland was settled much sooner, mostly by people of British, and particularly Scottish, origins but it also has an American influence because of the ranching culture brought into the region by American cowboys. By contrast, Edmonton's hinterland is marked by a French Canadian and Métis presence, and is predominantly occupied by people of non-British European origins. In particular, the region just to the east of Edmonton, Kalyna Country, is Canada's oldest and largest area of Ukrainian settlement.\n\nFollowing the debate over the CPR, the next important contest between the two cities was to determine which would become Alberta's capital city when the province was created in 1905. By this time, two new transcontinental railways had been built, both via Edmonton, under the guidance of a federal Liberal government that had replaced the Conservative government which had overseen construction of the CPR. Equally important, the Liberals overhauled Canada's immigration system – whereas the Conservatives had endeavoured to restrict Western settlement to British immigrants, the Liberals had encouraged immigration from other parts of Europe, such as the Austro-Hungarian Empire. The result was that Edmonton and Northern Alberta became much more ethnically diverse than Calgary and Southern Alberta, and this at a time when prejudice against non-British ethnic groups (in particular, Slavic peoples) was commonplace among those of British extraction, adding another layer to the ill will between north and south.\n\nThus, by the turn of the century the differing political leanings of Calgary and Edmonton that persist to this day (that is, with Calgary being quite conservative by Canadian standards and Edmonton tending to be more progressive) were already well established. Not surprisingly then, when the federal Liberal government admitted Alberta to Confederation in 1905, they named Edmonton the capital. However, the Calgary elite were even more infuriated when Edmonton's neighbour, the then-separate city of Strathcona won the right to host the University of Alberta (see below).\n\nThe final important rivalry between the cities during Alberta's early years was over economic leadership, especially in the Oilpatch. Calgary's nearby Turner Valley deposits were discovered in 1914, decades before Edmonton's Leduc #1 field in 1947. This in part accounts for the much larger concentration of head offices of large corporations in Calgary. Edmonton's business community contains more private corporations working in oil and gas, consulting and smaller operations. Edmonton is also the research and manufacturing centre of the Canadian petroleum industry, and roughly 80% of Canada's oil production is sent to market through Refinery Row, located just east of the city in Strathcona County.\n\nToday, although the rivalry is generally shown only during sporting events, there remains an 'unspoken' friendly rivalry between residents that remains on a subtle level.\n\nThe origins of and effects of the political leanings of the two cities are intertwined with and as old as the rivalry itself. When the CPR shifted its route southward, Canada was governed by the Conservatives who had generously supported the railway – this helped entrench a loyalty to the Tories in Calgary that persisted even during the early days of Confederation when most of Western Canada was solidly Liberal. However, when the Liberals gained power they championed not one but two more transcontinental railways, both of which passed through Edmonton. The result was boom times and massive immigration in and around Edmonton, which quickly displaced Calgary as Alberta's largest city and became solidly Liberal. It is widely believed that as a direct result of these leanings, the Liberal government in Ottawa designated Edmonton the provincial capital in 1905.\n\nThe different political leanings at first influenced and then, in turn, became influenced by the ethnic makeup of Edmonton and Northern Alberta, compared to Calgary and Southern Alberta. Whereas the Conservatives had taken steps to limit immigration from the United States and block immigration from virtually anywhere else besides the British Isles, the Liberals encouraged immigration from much of Europe. Although the largest single ethnic group in Edmonton and the north remained British, and although immigration by non-Caucasians remained actively discouraged and heavily restricted, many Canadians of British origin decried what they perceived as the \"mongrelization\" of the Dominion. Not surprisingly, this opposition became centred around the much more exclusively British city of Calgary, which increasingly looked down on the \"mongrelized\" north. In that context, especially considering the level of superiority those of British extraction viewed their own culture, the decision to place the university in Strathcona was particularly insulting to the British elite based in Calgary.\n\nRelations between Calgary and the provincial government in Edmonton hit an all-time low following the 1913 general election, in which the provincial Liberals under Arthur Sifton won a large majority – the size of which they owed in no small part to a blatant gerrymandering of the electoral districts which in particular left Calgary badly under-represented in the legislature. Such was the level of hostility by this time that a serious movement commenced to petition the federal government, by then back in Conservative hands, to admit Calgary and southern Alberta to Confederation as a separate province. At the time, the British North America Act would theoretically have allowed the creation of one province from the territory of another even without the consent of the government of the province concerned. With a sympathetic government in Ottawa the movement to create a separate province might have had some chance of success, had it not been for the outbreak of World War I which naturally diverted the attention of both the government and the public. During the war, the Sifton government chose to align itself closely with the federal government under Robert Borden, eventually supporting conscription over the explicit objections of federal Liberal leader Wilfrid Laurier. These decisions helped to ease tensions between Calgary's Conservative elite and the provincial Liberal government in Edmonton. In a low-key election, Sifton led his government to another majority, then left provincial politics to become Minister of Customs in the new \"Unionist\" government in Ottawa. The new government was essentially a coalition of pro-conscription Liberals and Conservatives under Borden's leadership.\n\nThe political rivalry between Calgary and Edmonton cooled even further after the 1921 general election, in which Conservative support collapsed throughout the province including Calgary, and in which the Liberals were swept from power by the rural-based United Farmers of Alberta. For the next fifty years, provincial politics was split more or less on an urban-rural basis, with rural voters consistently and overwhelmingly supporting UFA and then Social Credit governments while the Conservatives and Liberals made intermittent efforts at electoral co-operation in an attempt to maintain a foothold at least in the two major cities.\n\nNevertheless, the political leanings of the two cities have persisted over the years to the present. While Calgary has elected mayors in the past who have been known to be Liberals, Calgary was long reckoned as the most conservative major city in Canada. Since 1912, only five Liberals have ever won election to the House of Commons from Calgary-based ridings, none for more than one term. Although the Labour Party of Canada and Social Credit made inroads in the 1920s and 1930s, it was the Progressive Conservatives who dominated federal elections in Calgary, with few exceptions, until the Reform Party swept the federal Tories out of Alberta in 1993. Reform and its successor, the Canadian Alliance continued to dominate in Calgary (and Alberta) until merging with the PCs to form the Conservative Party of Canada. The former Prime Minister, Stephen Harper, represented Calgary Southwest, the riding that had once been held by founding Reform leader Preston Manning.\n\nThe Conservatives continued to dominate federal politics in Calgary until the 2015 federal election, which saw the Liberals not only win the second-most seats in their history, but also turn in their strongest showing in Western Canada in a quarter-century. They took two ridings in Calgary—one fewer than they had won in that city in their entire history. However, both ridings reverted to the Tories at the 2019 election.\n\nMeanwhile, the stronger government, university, greater ethnic heterogeneity and labour class presence in Edmonton has helped to keep the city on the political left by Albertan standards. In federal politics, Edmonton remained friendly to the Liberals in early decades, although in recent decades Edmonton's federal ridings have tended to follow the trend set by the rest of Alberta, usually electing Social Credit, PC, Reform, Alliance and finally Conservative MPs—though usually by much reduced pluralities than those found in Calgary. However, the federal New Democratic Party of Canada (NDP) won Edmonton East in 1988 for one term. The Liberals then achieved their first real success in Edmonton in decades in 1993 when four Liberals were elected compared to three Reformers. Two of these Liberals, Anne McLellan (who was Deputy Prime Minister in the early 2000s) and David Kilgour (a former PC) managed to win re-election in Edmonton three times each before being defeated and retiring, respectively in the face of the Tory sweep of Alberta in 2006. In 2008 New Democrat Linda Duncan won Edmonton—Strathcona, the only opposition seat in the province. In the 2011 election, Duncan held her seat, and the Tories held all of theirs, both in Edmonton and in the rest of Alberta. At the 2015 election, the Liberals took two seats in Edmonton, Duncan held onto her seat, and the Tories won the remainder.\n\nIn provincial politics, the political differences are more noticeable. The Social Credit Party of Alberta dominated most of Alberta's ridings, including Edmonton and Calgary, for most of the time it governed from 1935 until 1971. When the Progressive Conservatives under Calgarian Peter Lougheed won election in 1971, they would go on to dominate both cities' ridings themselves until 1986, when the Alberta New Democrats and Alberta Liberal Party made a breakthrough in Edmonton. For the next three decades, the Tories continued to win a majority of seats in every election both province-wide and in Calgary, but gained a majority of Edmonton's seats only once (in 2001) while the party had a Calgarian as leader.\n\nLougheed retired in 1985 and was succeeded by Edmontonian and former Eskimos quarterback Don Getty. In 1989, Getty was defeated in his Edmonton district and forced to run outside the city in a by-election. Getty's successor, Ralph Klein, was a former mayor of Calgary who defeated a former mayor of Edmonton, Liberal Laurence Decore in the 1993 election. The previous Liberal Leaders of the Opposition tended to represent an Edmonton district. During the 2006 PC leadership convention, Calgary-based candidates Ted Morton and Jim Dinning both fared poorly in Edmonton, which contributed to the victory of Ed Stelmach. Stelmach's victory continued a pattern under which since Lougheed assumed the premiership in 1971 in which successive Tory leaders (and premiers) alternated between Calgary and Edmonton-area ridings; Stelmach represented Fort Saskatchewan-Vegreville, on Edmonton's eastern fringe.\n\nStelmach was able to make gains in Edmonton at the expense of both the Liberals and NDP during the 2008 election, while the Liberals made gains in Calgary. From 2008 to 2012 the Official Opposition had an even number of members from both cities, with the leader Raj Sherman representing Edmonton-Meadowlark. On the other hand, Stelmach, like Getty before him, had a relatively short tenure as premier – he resigned in 2011, and was replaced by Calgarian Alison Redford. Redford led the PCs to an unexpected 12th term in government in 2012, but was forced out of politics two years later. She was ultimately succeeded by Calgarian and former federal cabinet minister Jim Prentice, breaking four decades of alternation between Calgary- and Edmonton-based leaders.\n\nDuring the 2012 general election, the trends in both cities were broadly similar, but with noticeable distinctions. Both cities voted over 40% for the centrist or centre-right PCs led by Redford. The second placed right-wing Wildrose Party, led by Danielle Smith, was much stronger in Calgary (36.41%) than in Edmonton (18.8%). Smith is a Calgary native, and her riding of Highwood was on Calgary's southern fringe. The centrist or centre-left Liberals were slightly stronger in Edmonton (16.13%) than in Calgary (12.16%), and the centre-left New Democrats were much stronger in Edmonton (21.56%) than in Calgary (4.9%), as were the upstart Alberta Party (2.46% in Edmonton, compared to less than one percent in Calgary). It is notable to mention that the media speculated that the overall province-wide Liberal vote collapsed as a result of Liberal voters voting PC in tactical voting, presumably to stop a Wildrose victory.\n\nMoreover, the 2012 election further demonstrated an extension of the north-south political divide into rural Alberta. Wildrose won every rural seat south of the 53rd parallel but one, as well as both seats in Medicine Hat. However, the Progressive Conservatives took all but one rural seat north of the 53rd parallel, as well as both seats in Red Deer and both seats in Lethbridge.\n\nThe Tory dominance was finally broken in the 2015 general election, when the Alberta New Democratic Party won power under Edmontonian Rachel Notley. Notably, the NDP won power on the strength of winning the most seats in both Edmonton and Calgary, upsetting the traditional political divide. The NDP dominated Edmonton, taking every seat in the city by 4,000 votes or more. In Calgary, massive vote-splitting between the PCs and Wildrose allowed the NDP to take 15 seats. After only one term, however, the NDP was turned out of office in 2019 by the United Conservative Party, a merger of the Tories and Wildrose under the leadership of Calgarian and former federal cabinet minister Jason Kenney. This election saw Alberta's traditional political divide reassert itself. The UCP took all but three seats in Calgary, while the NDP held on to all but one seat in Edmonton.\n\nThe rivalry also extends outside of team sports to international events. Both cities have hosted numerous national and international championships and other tournaments. Both cities have hosted large world-class and domestic renowned events.\n\nThe constant one-upmanship of the two cities in this field has receded in recent years, and they cooperated in a successful joint bid to host the 2012 World Junior Ice Hockey Championships (WJIHC). Previously, the province hosted the WJIHC in 1995. In that year, the city of Red Deer, a city between Edmonton and Calgary, was the primary venue. Edmonton and Calgary each hosted a few games as well.\n\nCalgary hosted the 1988 Winter Olympics, the 1996 International Rotarian Convention, and the 1997 World Police and Fire Games as well as the World Skills competition in 2009. Calgary is also an annual stop for many winter sport organizations, including International Skating Union (speed skating), International Bobsleigh and Skeleton Federation, International Luge Federation, and some International Ski Federation events. Calgary is also home to the world-famous Calgary Stampede.\n\nCalgary was designated as \"Canada's Cultural Capital\" in 2012 for the inaugural year of the program. The federal government granted $1.6 million to develop and renovate the city's cultural institutions and promote the arts.\n\nSocial entrepreneurs and scholars convened in Calgary during October 2013 for the 6th Social Enterprise World Forum to discuss solutions for global problems.\n\nIn April 2013, Calgary was one of 12 cities to host a conference to discuss the 2017 150th anniversary of Canadian Confederation.\n\nIn the summer of 2015, Calgary hosted the 2015 World Handball Championships. The ten-day tournament hosted athletes from 30 nations.\n\nEdmonton hosted the 1978 Commonwealth Games, the 1983 World University Games (Universiade), the 2001 World Championships in Athletics, and the 2005 World Master Games. The city also had a circuit on the IndyCar Series, the Edmonton Indy, from 2005 to 2012. Edmonton was designated as one of the host cities of the 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup.\n\nEdmonton annually hosts North America's largest fringe festival, the Edmonton International Fringe Festival every August; the same month also sees the Edmonton Folk Music Festival. Edmonton also hosted the Canadian Finals Rodeo during the second week of November from 1974 to 2017. The Edmonton International Street Performers Festival takes place every June. The city also plays host to K-Days every July.\n\nIn 2007, Edmonton started assessing the viability of hosting Expo 2017. The Edmonton City Council approved the building of a bid on April 15, 2009. Later in April, Calgary announced its coming bid to host Expo 2017, though it had not expressed any interest beforehand. In July of the same year, a disagreement occurred when Edmonton received provincial funding for its bid, while Calgary did not. Calgary withdrew its bid to host the event.\n\nEdmonton and Calgary among other Albertan towns, were both venues of the cross-province Tour of Alberta bicycle marathon in 2013 the marathon's inaugural year. The event returned for 2014 to 2017, but the Tour of Alberta was cancelled in 2018 due to economic conditions.\n\nAlberta's most prominent baseball rivalry existed between the Calgary Cannons and Edmonton Trappers of the Pacific Coast League. The Cannons existed from 1985 to 2002 while the Trappers existed from 1980 to 2004. The rivalry never reached the same level as it did in other sports, however, and ultimately both teams relocated to the United States (the Trappers to Round Rock, Texas, and the Cannons to Albuquerque, New Mexico). The Trappers captured four PCL championships during their existence, while the Cannons won none.\n\nIn 2011, the two cities competed in the North American League as the Calgary Vipers and Edmonton Capitals. The two teams met in the Northern Division playoffs in 2011; the Capitals won the series in six games. The Vipers folded after the season, and the Capitals suspended operations in February 2012, leaving the province with no professional baseball.\n\nThe rivalry between the cities' professional Canadian football teams is equally intense, and even predates the hockey rivalries, as the first football games in Alberta history took place in the 1890s. A team from Edmonton made history as they played in the first football game in Alberta, playing to a scoreless tie against Clover Bar. The first game played between teams from Edmonton and Calgary took place in 1891 when Edmonton beat Calgary 6–5 in a total point challenge series.\n\nThe rivalry had been diminished for a number of years until the Calgary City Rugby Football Club and the Edmonton Rugby Football Club were formed in 1906 and 1907 respectively where the two teams competed in the Alberta Rugby Football Union. In 1908, the teams were re-organized as the Calgary Tigers and Edmonton Esquimaux where the Esquimaux won the ARFU title that year. From then on, the two cities had multiple teams represent them in the Alberta Union, but instability led to a lack of consistent rivalry battle between the two. Teams named the Calgary Canucks, Calgary 50th Battalion, Calgary-Altomah Tigers, Edmonton Elks, Edmonton Eskimos, and Edmonton Boosters all took turns playing in the ARFU. It wasn't until the creation of the Western Interprovincial Football Union that a truly sustained rivalry could take place between two teams representing the two cities.\n\nIn 1921, a team from Edmonton called the Edmonton Eskimos won the Alberta Rugby Football Union (ARFU) league title. They made it past the winners of the Manitoba Rugby Football Union (MRFU) and Saskatchewan Rugby Football Union (SRFU), becoming the first Alberta team (and the first Western Canadian team) to ever compete for the Grey Cup, losing in the 9th Grey Cup game, then advancing again the next year (as the Edmonton Elks) to a loss in the 10th Grey Cup. The team's name goes back to the dawn of the Battle of Alberta when, at the end of the 19th century, a \"rugby football\" game between Edmonton and Calgary saw the Calgary media make reference to Edmonton's more northern latitude by calling the city's residents \"Esquimeaux\" (an archaic spelling of \"Eskimos\"). This Eskimos team folded in 1924, but the Edmonton Eskimos football name would reappear in the ARFU with a different team in 1929, moving to the Western Interprovincial Football Union (WIFU) in 1938 before folding again in 1940.\n\nA similar Calgary Rugby Football Club formed in 1907, competing in the AFRU under various names until – while operating as the Calgary Bronks – joining the Regina Roughriders (from the SRFU) and Winnipeg Blue Bombers (from the MRFU) to form the higher-level WIFU in 1936. The Bronks folded after the 1941 season, the year after the Eskimos had folded. A subsequent Calgary team, the Calgary Stampeders, was formed and joined the WIFU in 1948. This Stampeders team advanced to that year's 36th Grey Cup, becoming the first Calgary team to compete for the Grey Cup and the first Alberta team to win that championship.\n\nThe next season, in 1949, the current incarnation of the Edmonton Eskimos was founded and immediately joined the WIFU – this time, for good. This Eskimos team's first ever game was on Labour Day against the defending Grey Cup Stampeders, who defeated the Eskimos 20–6 in the restart of the currently ongoing version of the football Battle of Alberta. Since 1949, the Eskimos and Stampeders have played on Labour Day every year with the exception of eleven seasons, having an unbroken run since the 1982 season. This has been one of the Canadian Football League's marquee match-ups, with the Monday Labour Day Classic in Calgary followed by the Friday night (Saturday, since 2014) rematch in Edmonton, resulting in a very short turnaround for both teams. As of the 2019 CFL season, the all-time record favours Edmonton, as the Eskimos have a record of 127–103–3 against their provincial rivals.\n\nIn terms of the post-season, the two teams have played each other 27 times, with Edmonton holding a slight edge with 14 victories. The two teams also frequently meet in the West Final. Between 1990 and 2003, the two teams clashed nine times to decide who would represent the West in the Grey Cup, and at least one Alberta team was in the game each year. Calgary has won six out of the last nine playoff match-ups, the most recent one in the 2017 West Final. Calgary has also won the most recent championship by an Albertan team, in 2018 with the 106th Grey Cup game. While the Stampeders may have won the Grey Cup first and the most recent, the Eskimos have won the most, with 14 titles compared to the Stampeders' eight as of 2018.\n\nCurrently, the Calgary and Edmonton franchises play each other two to three times during the regular season and have played each other at least three times in every regular season but 2004 and 2018 between 1996 and 2019. The Stampeders have qualified for the playoffs in every season since 2005, while the Eskimos have missed the playoffs five times in that same time frame. Both teams have enjoyed much success in their histories as both franchises have never missed the playoffs at the same time. The Eskimos have made the playoffs in all but seven years since 1966, including 34 years in a row from 1972 to 2005 – a streak unmatched in North American major league sports. The Stampeders have only missed the playoffs six times since 1978.\n\nDuring the first week of March, 1895 a team of Calgarians mostly from the Calgary Fire Brigade's hockey club, travelled to Edmonton to play against a Mounted Police team from Fort Saskatchewan and the Edmonton Thistles shutting out both. It was the first recorded game between any Calgary and Edmonton teams.\n\nThe first professional hockey rivalry between the two cities dates to the founding of the Western Canada Hockey League in 1921. Both cities received teams, Calgary the Tigers, and Edmonton the Eskimos. The Eskimos won the WCHL title in 1923, but lost the Stanley Cup to the rival National Hockey League's Ottawa Senators. Calgary also appeared in a Stanley Cup championship series in 1924, but lost to the Montreal Canadiens of the NHL. After the demise of the WCHL in 1927, Alberta hockey fans turned to junior hockey. Both cities had teams in the Western Hockey League and Alberta Junior Hockey League.\n\nPro hockey did not return until the World Hockey Association arrived in 1972. Both cities received teams, but Calgary's Broncos folded without playing a game. The new Edmonton Oilers, then were left without an intra-provincial rival until a new WHA team, the Calgary Cowboys arrived in 1975, but they folded in 1977. The short and sporadic nature of the Calgary WHA franchises made building meaningful rivalries more difficult. The WHA itself was unstable and merged with the NHL in 1979.\n\nSince 1980, one of the most intense and passionate expressions of this rivalry is the frequent match-ups between the National Hockey League (NHL) clubs based in each city – the Calgary Flames and the Edmonton Oilers.\n\nThe Oilers were established as a World Hockey Association (WHA) team in 1972 and joined the NHL as a part of the NHL–WHA merger in 1979. They were soon followed by the Atlanta Flames moving to Calgary in 1980, making the question of who would reign as the top team in Alberta a hot topic. The Flames performed were the higher ranked squad in their inaugural season, finishing with 39 wins and 92 points and making it to the Stanley Cup semifinals. The following year the Oilers became the dominant franchise when the Oilers shot to the top of the Smythe Division and Wayne Gretzky started his career-long process of shattering over 100 NHL records and milestones.\n\nThe rivalry was especially bitter in the second half of the 1980s. For much of this time, the Flames and Oilers were the two best teams in the Campbell Conference, and by some accounts in the entire league. One of the two teams represented the Campbell Conference in the Stanley Cup Finals for eight consecutive years from to (Oilers 6 times, Flames twice). During this time, the Alberta teams won six of the eight Stanley Cup Championships, including the Oilers winning five Cups, a feat that has not been repeated since. The Edmonton Oilers of 1983–90 are recognized as the NHL's last dynasty, with line-ups through this period that featured Hockey Hall of Fame (HHOF) legends like Gretzky, Glenn Anderson, Paul Coffey, Grant Fuhr, Jari Kurri and Mark Messier, guided by HHOF coach Glen Sather. The 1984–85 Oilers would be voted as the greatest NHL team of all-time during the league's 2017 centennial celebrations. The only time the Flames won the Stanley Cup during that period was in , led by HHOF superstars Lanny McDonald, Doug Gilmour, Al MacInnis, Joe Mullen and Joe Nieuwendyk. This period of repeated confrontations was mainly due to the way the playoffs were structured for much of this time. The top four teams in each division made the playoffs, and the winners of the divisional rounds met in the conference finals. As the Flames and Oilers were both in the Smythe Division, this made it very likely they would face each other in the first or second round, en route to the conference finals. That same system made it a near-certainty that all other playoff qualifiers in the Campbell Conference faced the nearly unachievable (during that 8-year period) task of having to get past either the Oilers or Flames to make the Stanley Cup Finals. During this run, the Stanley Cup was awarded in Alberta from to (Oilers winning the deciding Cup game against the eastern Prince of Wales Conference representative in Edmonton in 1984, , and 1988, while the east's Montreal Canadiens won the deciding game in Calgary in ).\n\nThe Oilers defeated the Flames in the playoffs in 1983, 1984, 1988, and 1991, on their way to two of their five Stanley Cups. The Flames defeated the Oilers in the 1986 NHL playoffs; game 7 was decided when rookie Oiler defenceman Steve Smith accidentally scored on his own goal, which pushed the rivalry to a new level. The Flames were favoured in the 1988 playoffs, having won the Presidents' Trophy, but the Oilers swept the series and eventually went on to win the Cup.\n\nThe first round of the 1991 playoffs is the last time (as of 2020) that the teams met in the playoffs. The Oilers, the 1990 Stanley Cup Champions, had finished 20 points behind the Flames, the 1989 Stanley Cup Champions. Despite this, the Oilers were able to push the series to a full seven games, with Esa Tikkanen leading the underdog Oilers to an overtime victory on his third goal of the game.\n\nDue to the sheer talent and skill exhibited by both teams in the mid to late-1980s, Alberta was considered a \"Death Valley\" for teams coming to play on a road trip. The regular season schedule had the two teams play against each other 8 times a year during this period, representing 10% of their games—the honing of skills developed by the Oilers and Flames by playing the \"other\" best team in the NHL this many times a year made a swing through Alberta quite daunting for the rest of the teams in the league. The two Alberta teams showed their collective domination over the other 19 teams in the NHL by finishing a joint first and second in the Smythe Division 6 times between the 1982–83 and 1989–90 regular seasons (neither team lower than third in the 9 seasons from 81–82 through 90–91), finishing a joint first and second in the larger Clarence Campbell Conference 4 times between the 1985–86 and 1989–90 regular seasons (neither team lower than fifth from 81–82 through 90–91) and finishing with both teams in the top 10 of the entire NHL 7 times between the 1983–84 and 1989–90 regular seasons (with both teams in the top 5 of the entire NHL in 4 of those seasons). At least one of the two Alberta teams finished first or second overall for the entire NHL in every one of those 9 seasons.\n\nWith the changes to the regular season schedule from the 1991–92 NHL season onwards, the two teams no longer played each other 8 times a year (falling to only 4 times a year by 2016–17), causing the rivalry to cool off. Changes in the playoff format also reduced the opportunities for the two teams to meet in the intensity of a condensed seven games in less than two weeks—in fact, they have not met in a playoff series since 1991. As the NHL expanded in the United States, Canada declined from 7 of 21 league teams in 1990–91 to 6 of 30 by the 2000–01 NHL season. The two Alberta franchises faced financial hardships, since they were among the smallest markets in the league, restricting their ability to pay for higher quality talent and further reducing the competitiveness of the Battle of Alberta games and their ability to reach the playoffs. The situation would not be addressed until June 2005, when the NHL became the last major North American professional sports league to introduce a salary cap, coupled with improved revenue sharing.\n\nIt took well over a decade for either team to return to anything near the form they had exhibited in the 1980s. The Flames advanced to the 2004 Stanley Cup Finals, falling in seven games to the Tampa Bay Lightning. The Flames became the first team in the modern era of the NHL to defeat all three division winners en route to the Stanley Cup final. The next Stanley Cup final, (played in due to the NHL lock-out of 2005) saw the Edmonton Oilers fall in seven games to the Carolina Hurricanes. The Oilers became the first 8th seed in NHL history to advance past the semifinals, let alone make it to the Stanley Cup final. The Oilers faced a playoff drought for 10 seasons after their run in 2006–2007, not qualifying for the playoffs until the 2016–2017 season. The Flames would make the playoffs every year until 2009, but would then have their own playoff drought of six consecutive seasons.\n\nThere have been three regular season sweeps in the history of the rivalry. The Flames swept the six-game series in 2009–10 and the five-game series in 2014–15, while the Oilers swept the four-game series in 2016–17. The Flames’ sweep of the Oilers in 2009–10 was significant in the sense that they tied the rivalry’s win-loss-tie overall regular season and playoff series (since the team’s move to Calgary) on December 28, 2009. They then took the overall series lead with their victory over the Oilers three days later, and they haven’t relinquished it since (as of the end of the 2019–20 season). The Oilers had previously led the series since October 20, 1981. The aforementioned 2009–10 season also marked the first-ever trade between the two rivals, with Edmonton's Steve Staios being traded for Calgary's Aaron Johnson on March 3, 2010.\n\nAlthough not nearly as intense, the Western Hockey League intends to develop one for the Calgary Hitmen and Edmonton Oil Kings. The junior clubs are owned by the Oilers and Flames respectively. Both cities have had several franchises throughout the WHL's history. The original Oil Kings franchise faced the Calgary Centennials from the league's founding in 1966 until the Oil Kings relocation to Portland in 1976. The Calgary Hitmen were formed in 1995, followed a year later by the Edmonton Ice. The Ice never gained a foothold in Edmonton, and left for the Kootenays after two years. The Hitmen survived their initial struggles to grow into one of junior hockey's biggest drawing teams. The modern Oil Kings joined the WHL as an expansion franchise in 2007.\n\nThere are currently five Alberta-based WHL teams. In addition to Calgary and Edmonton, there are also the Medicine Hat Tigers, Lethbridge Hurricanes, and Red Deer Rebels and they all play together in one division, making for many intense intra-provincial battles.\n\nBox Lacrosse has seen significant growth in Alberta in recent years, with the Calgary Roughnecks joining the National Lacrosse League in 2001, followed by the Edmonton Rush in 2005. The two teams were poised to form another Alberta rivalry as the two cities have in many other sports. The Rush took out ads in Calgary newspapers before their first ever meeting saying the Rush would \"open a can\" on the Roughnecks. This backfired as the Roughnecks defeated the Rush. The Roughnecks tried this tactic against Edmonton before the April 5, 2008 game by placing an ad in the \"Edmonton Sun\" saying that Edmonton was a \"City of Losers\" instead of a \"City of Champions\". Just as it had for the Rush, the plan backfired as the Rush won 11–9. Calgary won the Champion's Cup in 2004 and 2009. Edmonton won the Champion's Cup in May 2015, before moving to Saskatoon that July.\n\nA rivalry exists between Cavalry FC and FC Edmonton\n\nAnother prominent rivalry exists between the major universities in each city, notably the University of Alberta, in Edmonton, and the University of Calgary, dating back to the creation of the province of Alberta in 1905.\n\nHeated wrangling took place between the cities of Calgary and Edmonton over the location of the new provincial capital and of the new provincial university. The neighbouring province of Saskatchewan had been formed on the same day as Alberta, settling a similar dispute between its own two major cities by making Regina the provincial capital and Saskatoon the site of the University of Saskatchewan. Alberta's first Premier, Alexander Rutherford, offered a similar solution by stating that the Alberta capital would be north of the North Saskatchewan River and that the provincial university would be in a city south of the river. The city of Edmonton, on the north bank of the river, became the capital while the city of Strathcona, on the south bank of the river (and the location of Rutherford's home), was granted the university. When the two cities were amalgamated in 1912, Edmonton became both the political and academic capital.\n\nCalgary was not granted a university until 1966.\n\nSports competitions between the two universities have taken place over who has possession of a painted rock. Meanwhile, the University of Alberta has consistently ranked much higher than the University of Calgary in major national and international rankings of Universities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307197", "title": "Organic linking", "text": "Organic linking\n\nOrganic linking is the development of hypertext links between web sites with or without an explicit agreement to exchange links. Organic links are more likely to appear in a context relevant to the subject of the target document, which makes them useful for search engines like Google search that rank pages according to their links. Estimates vary, but 50-80% of users clicks tend to go through organic links on the first page of a search engine's responses.\n"}
{"id": "2307198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307198", "title": "Pentland Hills", "text": "Pentland Hills\n\nThe Pentland Hills are a range of hills to the south-west of Edinburgh, Scotland. The range is around 20 miles (32 km) in length, and runs south west from Edinburgh towards Biggar and the upper Clydesdale.\n\nThe name is first recorded for the farm of Pentland (c.1050, 1200) and probably derives from Brythonic \"pen llan\", head or top end of the church or enclosure. In the late 15th to mid-16th centuries, land transfers refer to Pentlandmure and Pentland – documents that also list adjacent parcels of land with such still-recognisable names as Loganehous, Hilend, Boghall and Mortounhall. 'Muir', in Pentlandmure, describes common grazings where the farm's livestock would be pastured in summer; and gradually the name was linked more specifically with the slopes of the nearby hills (perhaps Allermuir, Woodhouselee or Castlelaw).. The name is completely unrelated to the name of the Pentland Firth in the north of Scotland.\n\nTimothy Pont mapped the area in the 1590s, and his work appeared in the maps of the Dutch cartographers Hondius (1630s) and Joan Blaeu (1654). Interestingly, Blaeu gives the name in two forms, in two different locations: \"Pentland Hill\" (roughly in the area of Castlelaw); and \"Penth-landt hill\" (further south and clearly intended as a name for the wider range).\n\nThe peaks include:\n\nThe hills span a number of council regions: from the City of Edinburgh and Midlothian in the north, south-west through West Lothian to the Scottish Borders and South Lanarkshire.\n\nThe Pentland Hills Regional Park was designated in 1986. It covers an area of 90 km² (35 sq mi) at the northern end of the hills. The park, together with the rest of the hills, is used for a variety of recreational activities including hillwalking, mountain biking, horse riding, golf, and skiing at the artificial ski slope at the Midlothian Snowsports Centre.\n\nToday most of the land is upland pasture, along with a few forestry plantations. The Ministry of Defence have a rifle range at Castlelaw. A number of rivers rise in the hills, including the Water of Leith and the North Esk, and there are several reservoirs, including Threipmuir, Harlaw, Clubbiedean, Torduff, Glencorse and Loganlea. \n\nIn the southern part of the hills is Little Sparta, the garden of the late artist and poet Ian Hamilton Finlay.\n\nSettlements in or near the Pentlands include:\n\nThere is ample evidence of prehistoric settlement in the area, e.g. the hillfort and souterrain at Castle Law, and another at Caerketton. The hills were most likely settled, farmed and defended in the pre-Roman and Roman era by the local Celtic people known to the Romans as the Votadini.\n\nAbout 20 m (66 ft) into Glencorse Reservoir lie the submerged ruins of the chapel of St Katherine's in the Hope. The founding of the chapel is connected with the story of a mediaeval royal deer hunt. According to the story, King Robert the Bruce staked the Pentland Estate against the life of Sir William St Clair, with the outcome of the hunt of a white deer by the knight and his two hounds, 'Help' and 'Hold', being the deciding factor. The dogs managed to bring down the deer, and in gratitude, and to mark the spot, Sir William had a chapel built in the glen.\n\nThe hills were the scene of an incident in 1666 following the Restoration of King Charles II when an outbreak of armed rebellion amongst Covenanters led to a small force of badly armed conventiclers being defeated at the battle of Rullion Green. Afterwards the whole episode was (incorrectly) named the Pentland Rising. The incident is commemorated by the \"Covenanter's Grave\", a cairn after which one of the drove roads across the hills is known (OS Grid Reference NT078521).\n\nIn \"Greyfriars Bobby\", Bobby comes from (and later revisits) the Pentland Hills.\n\nIn Mary Shelley's novel \"Frankenstein\", Frankenstein's friend Henri Clerval is said to have been filled with 'cheerfulness and admiration' when he visited the Pentland Hills while heading further north (Chapter 19).\n\nThere is a residence hall at the University of California, Riverside that is named after Pentland Hills. The Pentland Hills Residence Hall houses first-year students at the university in a suite style environment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307199", "title": "San Bernardo", "text": "San Bernardo\n\nSan Bernardo may refer to:\n\nIn Mexico:\n\nIn other places:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307201", "title": "Eastern Mennonite School", "text": "Eastern Mennonite School\n\nEastern Mennonite School (EMS) is a K-12 private school in Harrisonburg, Virginia. It is affiliated with the Virginia Mennonite Conference of Mennonite Church USA.\n\nEMS's mission and its educational philosophy conform to Anabaptist-Mennonite thought, teaching and valuing peace-building, with a Christ-centered worldview. The school encourages demonstration of personal faith through service and through the practical application of knowledge, and it emphasizes living responsibly and pursuing peace in one's local and global community. Faculty seek to teach examples of peacemaking in history and in current affairs. Students experience the Christian mission of the school through Bible curricula in each grade, K-12; they attend daily chapels (6-12), have weekly elementary school gatherings, and have weekly Neighbor Group meetings (6-12). Twice a year, the staff invites a Spiritual Renewal Speaker to hold week-long chapel meetings with the students.\n\nRegular student trips to distant cities, states, and countries take place through annual E-terms (week-long Experiential Term), domestic and international Touring Choir trips, and biennial Discovery trips that take students on educational learning experiences to the American west coast and back.\n\nEastern Mennonite School began in 1917 as a high school and Bible school, adding college classes as the institution grew. In 1964, the school built a new building on Parkwood Drive directly below what was then Eastern Mennonite College (now Eastern Mennonite University). In 1968, EMS expanded schooling to grades 7-12 and was renamed Eastern Mennonite High School. In 1982, Eastern Mennonite High School officially become a separate legal entity from Eastern Mennonite College, with its own governing Board of Directors. In 2005 the school created Eastern Mennonite Elementary School. To shape its identity as a K-12 school, the organization was renamed Eastern Mennonite School, encompassing all three divisions - Elementary, Middle, and High schools. In 2006 the school expanded its facility to include a new 650-seat auditorium, fine and performing arts classrooms, expanded and renovated Science wing, and other additional classrooms. In the summer of 2009, the school renovated the gym, adding a new hardwood floor, better lights and new bleachers.\n\nAthletics, performing arts, clubs, and other available co-curricular activities encourage student connection to the school community. The percentage of Eastern Mennonite School students that participate in co-curricular activities is generally between 93% and 95%.\n\nThe elementary division of Eastern Mennonite School is part of the Blue Ridge Area Athletics Association. BRAAA is a group of area Christian elementary schools who have come together to provide team competition in sports. The elementary division has two seasons including fall soccer and winter basketball. All teams are co-ed, and are coached by parents and officiated by either parents or high school students. Practices are generally once a week with games scheduled on Saturdays. The seasons last approximately two months. Students are divided into teams according to their grades. Kindergarten, first, and second graders play on one team and third, fourth, and fifth graders play on another team.\n\nThe middle and high school divisions currently have a total of 26 teams: eight teams each fall and winter season and ten teams in the spring. All of the boys’ teams participate in the Virginia Independent Conference (VIC). The girls’ teams participate in the Blue Ridge Conference (BRC). Both conferences are for private schools in the state of Virginia. All varsity teams are eligible for post-season VISAA state competition. The Middle School level emphasis is on cultivating student interest, skill development, proper technique, and learning the rules of the particular sport more than winning. Team membership includes sixth, seventh, and eighth grades. The Junior Varsity team membership includes eighth, freshman, and sophomores (sixth and seventh when no middle school team is offered). At the Varsity level, emphasis is on fielding a team with the best opportunity to win while maintaining high levels of sportsmanship. This may result in unequal playing time. Although winning is important, other factors like developing team unity, significant individual progress and team improvement are vital keys to a successful season. Team Membership includes eighth through twelfth grades.\n\nEach year in the elementary division, all fourth and fifth grade students perform a full-length drama for their parents and peers. Special Days are planned by \"committees\" of students with representation from each grade, and include themes such as Pajama Reading Day, Storybook Character Day, Crazy Hair Day, and Sports Day.\n\nEach year the middle and high school divisions provide an opportunity for students in each grade level to participate in a drama production. Regularly scheduled stage productions include a middle school play, a high school musical, and a senior play. These stage productions also provide an opportunity for students to participate off-stage as sound and lighting technicians, stage managers, and assistant directors. In addition to dramatic stage productions, other opportunities in performing arts include participation in a full orchestra, jazz band, large choirs, and small vocal and string ensembles.\n\nStudents sign up for clubs that interest them and many choose to participate in multiple clubs. All clubs have a faculty or parent sponsor to provide leadership and supervision. Each year, an effort is made to offer clubs that meet the interests of all age groups; however, students may also request a specific club be created and sponsored if sufficient interest is expressed by a group of students. Examples of clubs available at the elementary division include Chess Club and First Lego League. Middle and high school division clubs include Automotive, Board Game, Chess, Comforters for Mennonite Central Committee (MCC), Equestrian, Fly Tying, Math League, Set Design & Painting, Open Art Room, and Table Tennis.\n\n"}
{"id": "2307202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307202", "title": "Raljon, Maryland", "text": "Raljon, Maryland\n\nRaljon was a place name for the area around FedExField (originally called Jack Kent Cooke Stadium), in Landover, Maryland, where the Washington Redskins play. Former Redskins owner Jack Kent Cooke derived the name from the names of his sons, Ralph and John. Introduced in 1997 to almost universal derision, the name enjoyed almost no currency beyond the Redskins and the USPS, which formally recognized the name after granting Cooke's request.\n\nTony Kornheiser said \"Lucky for us, Cooke didn't name his kids Peter and Ennis.\"\n\nDaniel Snyder discontinued the use of the name in 1999 when he bought the Redskins.\n\n"}
{"id": "2307213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307213", "title": "Madison Park (musical duo)", "text": "Madison Park (musical duo)\n\nMadison Park is an American electronica duo composed of husband and wife James and DeAnna Cool.\n\nMadison Park released some of their first tracks on the first two volumes of New Sound Theory, a pair of chill-out compilations released in 2003 through basicLUX Records, the record label they had founded in 2002. When their track “My Personal Moon,” from Volume 1, hit the Billboard Dance Singles Sales chart, they decided to release a full-length album, titled \"Boutique\". The album was released on March 23, 2004. \"Ocean Drive\", the album's lead single, entered the Billboard Hot Dance Club Play chart (since renamed the Dance Club Songs chart) as the Hot Shot Debut on the chart dated October 2, 2004. It eventually peaked at number 12, spending a total of 12 weeks on the chart. The song remains their highest-peaking chart entry. In 2005, their remake of Roxy Music's \"More Than This\" also peaked within Billboard's Dance Club Songs top 30. In 2006, “I’m Listening”, a single from their sophomore album, \"In the Stars\", also charted on the Dance Club Songs chart, peaking at number 25.\n\nIn 2007 Madison Park produced remixes for Sony Legacy's Remixed and Reimagined series. The first album in the Legacy Remixed series was released by Sony BMG. The collection was composed of Nina Simone classics and included remixes by Coldcut, Francios K, Chris Coco and Tony Humphries. Madison Park teamed up with Lenny B to rework “The Look of Love” that ultimately found its way onto the Sex And The City soundtrack in 2008. It also appeared in the Sex And The City film, also 2008. The next remix Madison Park produced for Sony Legacy was Billie Holiday's “I’m Gonna Lock My Heart” also released by Sony BMG. Their trip-hop version of the track was initially placed on“Billie Holidays: Remixed and Reimagined”. The Madison Park remix also appeared in an episode of Nip/Tuck in 2007.\n\nIn 2008, Madison Park released a third album, “Another Yesterday”. Two solid dance radio hits came from the album including title track “Another Yesterday” and “Come Out And Play”, a co-production with Swiss producer, Monodeluxe (alias Alessandro Oliviero). Since the release of the album Another Yesterday, Madison Park has released a score of maxi-singles such as “I Stumble Fall”, “Fascinated”, and “Sunrise”. Each title faring well amongst house music DJ's, club play and dance radio.\n\nIn late 2011 “Sunrise” a collaboration with Amsterdam-based producer, Beechkraft, appeared in the Top 10 in 18 US-based record pools and various terrestrial, satellite, and internet radio programs. “Sunrise” –Round Two is set for digital release on July 10, 2012.\n\nAdditional:\nOften quoted as saying that the band Roxy Music has served as a major musical influence, this was well-proven when the duo created Roxy Remodeled, a compilation CD of 13 reworked Roxy classics in their signature downtempo, house music vein. Distributed through Tommyboy Records, the CD was a well-liked selection of Elton John's as he reportedly purchased multiple copies from an Atlanta Tower Records on separate occasions. Madison Park's version of “More Than This”, a Billboard charter for the duo, was co-produced with US producer, Lenny B. The couple also reworked Same Old Scene with Soul Rider of Hallucination Recordings.\n\nUpon release of the New Sound Theory series executive-produced by the pair, local DJ's participated in “New Sound Sundays” held weekly at Halo Lounge in Atlanta, hosted by their record label basicLUX Records.\n\nMadison Park participated in several music placement programs to help broaden their fan-base such as Dell Computer and Apple's iPod in 2006 and 2007. \n\nBoth vegetarian, as well as co-producer of vegan, travel creamer SoyGo, Madison Park produced the video “Opus One” regarding the plight of animals raised for food in factory farms in 2007. In 2008 a version with French-subtitles was created and can be found on YouTube.\n\nIn 2012 Madison Park signed with Toco International on current single “Sunrise” -collaboration with Amsterdam-based producer, Beechkraft.\n\nCurrently producing the fifth volume of New Sound Theory, the duo is also working on new Madison Park material for a fourth album.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307214", "title": "John FitzRoy, 9th Duke of Grafton", "text": "John FitzRoy, 9th Duke of Grafton\n\nJohn Charles William Fitzroy, 9th Duke of Grafton (1 August 1914 – 4 August 1936), was a British peer and politician, styled The Honourable John FitzRoy from 1914 to 1918, Viscount Ipswich in 1918, and Earl of Euston from 1918 to 1930.\n\nFitzRoy was the eldest son of William FitzRoy, Viscount Ipswich (himself the eldest son of the 8th Duke of Grafton and his first wife, Margaret Rose Smith) and his wife Auriol Margaretta Brougham, and was educated at Trinity College, Cambridge. When his father died in a flying accident in April 1918 and when his great-grandfather died in December 1918, John FitzRoy became the heir to his grandfather's titles and succeeded to them in 1930.\n\nIn 1929 he gave away his mother on the occasion of her second marriage, to Major Gavin Hume-Gore.\n\nThe duke died aged twenty-two, unmarried and childless, after his Bugatti crashed during the Limerick Grand Prix motor race in Limerick, Ireland. His dukedom was inherited by his cousin, Charles, but his viscountcy of Thetford and earldom and barony of Arlington fell into abeyance between his sisters, Lady Jane and Lady Mary-Rose. The viscountcy and earldom remain abeyant, but the abeyance of his barony was terminated in 1999, in favour of Lady Jane's eldest daughter, Jennifer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307224", "title": "Nightmare (1956 film)", "text": "Nightmare (1956 film)\n\nNightmare is a 1956 American film noir crime film directed by Maxwell Shane starring Edward G. Robinson, Kevin McCarthy and Connie Russell.\n\nThe story is based on a novel by William Irish (aka Cornell Woolrich). The book also became a 1947 film, \"Fear in the Night\", made by the same writer-director . \"Nightmare\" had been the original title of \"Fear in the Night\".\n\nNew Orleans big band clarinetist Stan Grayson (Kevin McCarthy) has a nightmare in which he sees himself in a mirrored room, killing a man. He awakens to find blood on himself, bruises on his neck, and a key from the dream in his hand.\n\nGrayson goes to his brother-in-law, police detective Rene Bressard (Edward G. Robinson), about the problem but is dismissed. Later, the two men go on a picnic in the country with Grayson's girlfriend and sister. Grayson leads them to an empty house, the house of his dream, when it begins to rain. They are shocked to see that the house has a mirrored room just like in his dream. After it is found out that a murder did indeed take place, Grayson becomes Bressard's number one suspect.\n\nGrayson, stressed out and suicidal, protests his innocence, which makes Bressard dig deeper. That leads to them finding out about a hypnotist in Grayson's building who apparently set up the musician for murder.\n\n\nThe film was the first production of Pine-Thomas-Shane Productions, a new iteration of Pine-Thomas Productions. Pine-Thomas had been based at Paramount from 1940 to 1954. They made a contract with United Artists, but William H. Pine died. The company was renamed Pine-Thomas-Shane to reflect the contribution of long-time screenwriter Maxwell Shane; the \"Pine\" was Howard Pine, William Pine's son. The film was meant to be the first of three films PTS would make for United Artists, the others being \"Lincoln McEever\" and \"The Mountain Has No Shadow\".\n\nBilly May and His Orchestra perform in this version as themselves. They also provide the theme tune, \"Nightmare in New Orleans\".\n\nEven though Robinson was not the hypnotist in the film, he was promoted as such in the film's movie posters.\n\nFilming started 31 October 1955.\n\nThe \"New York Times\" called it \"a modest melodrama with some crooked turns but neat performances.\" The \"Los Angeles Times\" called it \"draggy\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307228", "title": "Frederic Hymen Cowen", "text": "Frederic Hymen Cowen\n\nCowen was born Hymen Frederick Cohen at 90 Duke Street, Kingston, Jamaica, the fifth and last child of Frederick Augustus Cohen and Emily Cohen \"née\" Davis. His siblings were Elizabeth Rose Cohen (b. 1843); actress, Henrietta Sophia Cohen (b. 1845); painter, Lionel Jonas Cohen (b. 1847) and Emma Magnay Cohen (b. 1849).\n\nAt the age of four years Frederic was brought to England, where his father became treasurer to the opera at Her Majesty's Opera, now Her Majesty's Theatre, and private secretary to William Humble Ward, 11th Lord Ward (1817–1885). The family initially lived at 11 Warwick Crescent, London, in the area known as Little Venice. His first teacher was Henry Russell, and his first published composition, \"Minna-waltz\", appeared when he was only six years old. He produced his first published operetta, \"Garibaldi\", at the age of eight. With the help of the Earl of Dudley, he studied the piano with Julius Benedict, and composition with John Goss. His first public appearance as a pianist was as an accompanist in one of his own early songs sung by Mrs Drayton at a concert in Brighton in the early 1860s. His first genuine public recital was given on 17 December 1863 at the Bijou Theatre of the old Her Majesty's Opera House, and in the following year he performed Mendelssohn's Piano Concerto in D minor at a concert given at Dudley House, Park Lane, the London home of the Earl of Dudley. At the same venue a year later he premiered his Pianoforte Trio in A major with Joseph Joachim playing the violin part.\n\nBy the Autumn of 1865 it was the judgment of his instructors, Julius Benedict and John Goss, that they could do little more to further his musical education and recommended that he study in Germany. By coincidence the second competition for the Mendelssohn Scholarship was due to be held that gave its winner three years of tuition at the Leipzig Conservatorium. Cowen attended the examination and won the prize, but his parents intervened, as they were not prepared to give up control of him, as stipulated by the terms of the prize. Instead, they agreed to send him to the same institution, but as an independent student. Charles Swinnerton Heap was awarded the prize in his place. At Leipzig, overseen by Ernst Friedrich Eduard Richter, Cowen studied under Moritz Hauptmann (harmony and counterpoint), Ignaz Moscheles (piano), Carl Reinecke (composition) and Ferdinand David (ensemble work). He also came into contact with Salomon Jadassohn and Ernst Wenzel, and took some private piano lessons with Louis Plaidy. Cowen's fellow students and companions in Leipzig included Swinnerton Heap, Johan Svendsen, Oscar Beringer and Stephen Adams.\n\nReturning home on the outbreak of the Austro-Prussian War, he appeared as a composer for the orchestra in an Overture in D minor played at Alfred Mellon's Promenade Concerts at Covent Garden on 8 September 1866. In the following autumn he went to Berlin, where he studied composition under Friedrich Kiel and Carl Taubert, and took piano lessons from Carl Tausig, enrolling at the academy created by Julius Stern, known as the Stern'sches Konservatorium. A symphony (his first in C minor) and a piano concerto (in A minor) were given in St. James's Hall on 9 December 1869, and from that moment Cowen began to be recognised as primarily a composer, his talents as a pianist being subordinate, although his public appearances were numerous for some time afterwards.\n\nHis cantata, \"The Rose Maiden\", was given at London in 1870, his Second Symphony in F major by the Royal Liverpool Philharmonic Society in 1872, and his first festival work, \"The Corsair\", in 1876 at Birmingham. In that year his opera, \"Pauline\", was given by the Carl Rosa Opera Company with moderate success. His most important work, his Symphony No. 3 in C minor, \"Scandinavian\", which was first performed at St. James's Hall in 1880 and went on to establish itself for a decade as one of the most popular symphonic works in the repertoire, brought him some international recognition. Appearing in 1880, it proved to be the most regularly and widely performed British symphony until the arrival of Elgar's First. In 1884 he conducted five concerts of the Philharmonic Society of London, and in 1888, on the resignation of Arthur Sullivan, became the regular conductor of that society. His employment there came to an abrupt termination in 1892 when he apologised for any shortcomings in the orchestra's performance of Beethoven's \"Pastoral\" Symphony before they had rendered it, due to the lack of rehearsal time that he felt he had been given. The directors took umbrage at his remarks and did not renew his contract. In the year of his appointment to the Philharmonic Society, 1888, he went to Melbourne as the conductor of the daily concerts given in connection with the Exhibition there for the unprecedented sum of £5,000. In 1896, Cowen was appointed conductor of the Liverpool Philharmonic Society and of the Hallé Orchestra, succeeding Sir Charles Hallé. He was ousted from the Hallé after three years in favour of Hans Richter. In 1899, he was reappointed conductor of the Philharmonic Society of London. He also conducted the Bradford Festival Choral Society, the Bradford Permanent Orchestra, the Scottish Orchestra (now known as the Royal Scottish National Orchestra) and the Handel Festivals at The Crystal Palace for some years, as well as being a regular attendee at many British music festivals, both as conductor and composer.\n\nCowen's career, both as composer and conductor, is now almost forgotten. Although he regarded himself primarily as a symphonist, he was most successful in lighter orchestral pieces when treating fantastic or fairy subjects, where his gifts for graceful melody and colourful orchestration are shown to best advantage. Whether in his cantatas for female voices, his charming \"Sleeping Beauty\", his \"Water Lily\" or his pretty overture, \"The Butterfly's Ball\" (1901), he succeeds in finding graceful expression for the poetical idea. His dance music, such as is to be found in various orchestral suites, is refined, original and admirably instrumented. Much of his more serious music is commendable rather than inspired and seldom successful in portraying the graver aspects of emotion. Indeed, his choral works, written for the numerous musical festivals around Victorian and Edwardian Britain, typify the public taste of his time. Of his 300 or so songs, they encompass everything from the popular ballad to the high art song, the latter of which led him to be described as the 'English Schubert' in 1898. Indeed, the vogue of his semi-sacred songs has been widespread.\n\nCowen received honorary doctorates from Cambridge and Edinburgh in 1900 and 1910 respectively, and was knighted at St. James's Palace on 6 July 1911. Cowen married Frederica Gwendoline Richardson at St. Marylebone Registry Office, London, 23 June 1908. She was 30 years his junior and they had no issue. He died on 6 October 1935 and was buried at the Jewish Cemetery, Golders Green. His wife died at Hove, Sussex, in 1971.\n\nCowen, Sir Frederic H. \"My Art and My Friends.\" London: Edward Arnold, 1913.\n\nCowen's autobiography details his conducting and compositional career, and experiences with musical colleagues and ensembles. 314 pages, with frontispiece photographic portrait, and an index.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe following are among the over 300 songs written by Cowen:\nAt least two songs, \"It was a Dream\" and \"Almost\", had lyrics by R. E. Francillon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307229", "title": "Sordello", "text": "Sordello\n\nSordello da Goito or Sordel de Goit (sometimes \"Sordell\") was a 13th-century Italian troubadour, born in the municipality of Goito in the province of Mantua.\n\nThe real Sordello, so far as we have authentic facts about his life, was the most famous of the Italian troubadours. About 1220 he was in a tavern brawl in Florence; and in 1226, while at the court of Richard of Bonifazio in Verona, he abducted his master's wife, Cunizza, at the instigation of her brother, Ezzelino da Romano. The scandal resulted in his flight (1229) to Provence, where he seems to have remained for some time. He entered the service of Charles of Anjou, and probably accompanied him (1265) on his Naples expedition; in 1266 he was a prisoner in Naples. The last documentary mention of him is in 1269, and he is supposed to have died in Provence. His appearance in Purgatory among the spirits of those who, though redeemed, were prevented from making a final confession and reconciliation by sudden death, suggests that he was murdered, although this may be Dante's own conjecture.\n\nHis didactic poem, \"L’ensenhamen d’onor\", and his love songs and satirical pieces have little in common with Dante's presentation, but the invective against negligent princes which Dante puts into his mouth in the 7th canto of the \"Purgatorio\" is more adequately paralleled in his \"sirventes-planh\" (1237) on the death of his patron Blacatz, where he invites the princes of Christendom to feed on the heart of the hero.\n\nSordello was subsequently praised by Dante Alighieri in the \"De vulgari eloquentia\" (written about 1305) and is made the type of patriotic pride in the 6th canto of the \"Purgatorio\" of \"The Divine Comedy\" (composed between 1308 and 1322). He is the hero of the well-known poem \"Sordello\" by Robert Browning, published in 1840. He is also praised for his passion in Oscar Wilde's 1881 poem \"\".\n\nSordello is briefly referred to in Samuel Beckett's 1951 novels \"Molloy\" and \"Malone Dies\". Ezra Pound also references him in the Cantos. Numerous references occur in Roberto Bolaño's 2000 novella \"By Night in Chile\" and he is a principal character in Robert Shea's two-volume historical novel \"The Saracen\", published in 1989.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307234", "title": "Timeline of Portuguese history (Lusitania and Gallaecia)", "text": "Timeline of Portuguese history (Lusitania and Gallaecia)\n\nThis is a historical timeline of Portugal.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307235", "title": "Mike Birbiglia", "text": "Mike Birbiglia\n\nMike Birbiglia (; born June 20, 1978) is an American stand-up comedian, actor, director, producer and writer. He is a frequent contributor to \"This American Life\" and \"The Moth\", and has released several comedy albums and television specials. His feature-length directorial debut \"Sleepwalk with Me\" (2012), based on his one-man show of the same name and in which he also starred, won awards at the Sundance and Nantucket film festivals. He also wrote, directed, and starred in the comedy-drama \"Don't Think Twice\" (2016). His 2010 book \"Sleepwalk with Me and Other Painfully True Stories\" was a \"New York Times\" bestseller and a finalist for the 2011 Thurber Prize for American Humor. Birbiglia has appeared in films such as \"Your Sister's Sister\" (2011), \"Cedar Rapids\" (2011), and \"Trainwreck\" (2015), played a recurring role in \"Orange Is the New Black\", and has guest starred in episodes of \"Girls\", \"Inside Amy Schumer\", and \"Broad City\".\n\nBirbiglia was born in Worcester, Massachusetts, the son of Mary Jean (née McKenzie) and Vincent Paul Birbiglia. He is the youngest of four children. He is of part Italian descent and was raised Catholic. Birbiglia attended the all-boys Catholic school St. John's High School for one year, and graduated from St. Mark's School Episcopal School in 1996. He says seeing comedian Steven Wright perform inspired him to begin writing jokes at age 16.\nHe subsequently attended Georgetown University in Washington, D.C., graduating in 2000. During college he performed as a member of the Georgetown Players Improv Troupe, worked as a server in a comedy club, and began performing at DC Improv (The Improv) in Washington, D.C.\n\nBirbiglia began doing improv in 1997, his sister was able to get him an interview on Conan O’Brien’s show as an intern.\nBirbiglia moved to New York in 2000, and appeared on the \"Late Show with David Letterman\" in 2002. He told his first story on stage at the U.S. Comedy Arts Festival in Aspen, in 2003, and eventually became a semi-regular contributor to \"The Moth\" storytelling series. He released his first album, \"Dog Years\", in 2004, followed by \"My Secret Public Album, Volume 1a\" (2005) a compilation of his appearances on \"The Bob and Tom Show\". His next two albums, \"Two Drink Mike\" (2006), and \"My Secret Public Journal Live\" (2007) were released on Comedy Central Records. \"My Secret Public Journal Live\" was named one of the best comedy albums of the decade by The A.V. Club\n\nIn 2008 CBS picked up a sitcom pilot loosely based on Birbiglia's life and featuring himself, Bob Odenkirk and Frances Conroy that ultimately never aired. He later called the failure of his pilot \"the luckiest thing that ever happened to me.\"\n\nIn 2008, Birbiglia opened \"Sleepwalk with Me\", a one-man show that straddled standup comedy and theater, off-Broadway at the Bleecker Street Theater. The show was presented by Nathan Lane, and the \"New York Times\" called it \"simply perfect\". \"Time Out New York\" named it their \"Show of the Year\" in 2009.\n\nBirbiglia adapted his material into the 2010 book \"Sleepwalk with Me, and Other Painfully True Stories\" and the 2011 album \"Sleepwalk With Me Live\". The book debuted at #29 on the hardcover nonfiction \"New York Times Bestseller List\" and number four on the hardcover nonfiction section of the \"Washington Post\" Political Bookworm Best Sellers. The book was also a finalist for the 2011 Thurber Prize for American Humor. \"Sleepwalk With Me Live\" debuted at #1 on the \"Billboard\" Comedy Charts.\n\nBirbiglia made his directorial debut with \"Sleepwalk with Me\", based on his one-man show and which he wrote, directed, and starred in. The film premiered at the 2012 Sundance Film Festival and won the NEXT Audience Award. It was selected in the \"Festival Favorites\" category at the South by Southwest film festival in Austin, Texas and also appeared in the Nantucket Film Festival where it won the award for best writer/director. The film was produced by Jacob Jaffke and \"This American Life\"'s Ira Glass and stars Birbiglia, Lauren Ambrose, Carol Kane, James Rebhorn, and Cristin Milioti and has cameos by Glass, Kristen Schaal, Wyatt Cenac, David Wain, Jessi Klein, John Lutz and Marc Maron. While hosting the 2012 Gotham Awards, Birbiglia roasted \"I Heart Huckabees\" director David O. Russell by reading a transcript of Russell's on-set argument with actress Lily Tomlin.\n\nIn addition to starring in \"Sleepwalk with Me\", Birbiglia has appeared in films such as \"Trainwreck\", \"Going the Distance\", \"Cedar Rapids\", \"Your Sister's Sister\" and \"The Fault in Our Stars\". He has also guest-starred in episodes of \"Girls\", \"Inside Amy Schumer\", and \"Broad City\". He played the role of Danny Pearson on the Netflix series \"Orange Is the New Black\" in its third and fourth seasons, with which he shared the 2016 Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Comedy Series.\nIn 2011, Birbiglia mounted his second one-man show, \"My Girlfriend's Boyfriend\", which ran for four months off-Broadway and won the Lucille Lortel Award for Outstanding Solo Show. He toured \"My Girlfriend's Boyfriend\" around the world with tour dates in the United States, Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom. On June 2, 2013, Birbiglia performed it for the last time at Carnegie Hall. \"My Girlfriend's Boyfriend\" was featured as the number one stand-up special of 2013 by Vulture, \"Paste\", The Laugh Button and Laughspin. It was also named one of \"Time Out New York\"'s Best Comedy Specials of 2013. \"Flavorwire\" listed the special as one of the top 20 funniest stand-up specials of all time.\n\nFor his second film, Birbiglia's drew upon his early experience with improv in \"Don't Think Twice\" (2016), which centers on a fictional Manhattan improv troupe. Birbligia also stars among an ensemble cast including Keegan-Michael Key, Gillian Jacobs, Kate Micucci, Tami Sagher, and Chris Gethard. The film was nominated for several awards, including the Critics' Choice Award for Best Comedy and St. Louis Film Critics Association award for Best Comedy.\n\nBirbiglia's \"Thank God for Jokes\" comedy special was released on Netflix on February 28, 2017.\n\nIn April 2017, Birbiglia announced a tour of his newest show titled \"The New One\". The tour started with 25 cities and, in December 2017, featured a limited podcast titled \"The Old Ones\". The podcast features Mike Birbiglia analyzing his old stand-up with guests including his brother Joe Birbiglia, comedians Pete Holmes and John Mulaney, film producer and director Judd Apatow, contributor to 'This American Life' Ira Glass and his wife. \"The New One\" made its off-Broadway debut at the Cherry Lane Theatre on July 26 and was scheduled to run through August 2 before a high demand for tickets extended the show's run to and through August 26.\n\nThe show then received a Broadway transfer, with performances beginning October 25, 2018 and running through January 20, 2019 at the Cort Theatre.\n\nBirbiglia is a regular contributor to the Public Radio International-distributed program \"This American Life\".\n\nBirbiglia has rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder, which once caused him to run out of a second-story window of a motel he was staying in Walla Walla, Washington, while on tour. As a result of the accident, Birbiglia received 33 stitches in his leg. He's also had a tumor on his bladder at the age of 19.\n\nBirbiglia is married to Jen Stein, who often goes by her pen name J. Hope Stein, and whose work features in \"The New One\". They have one daughter, Oona.\n\nAudio releases (physical and/or digital formats)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307244", "title": "Urban climate", "text": "Urban climate\n\nThe climate in urban areas differs from that in neighboring rural areas, as a result of urban development. Urbanization greatly changes the form of the landscape, and also produces changes in an area's air.\n\nIn 1950 Åke Sundborg published one of the first theories on the climate of cities.\n\nIncreased urban land use and occupation alters the local thermal field resulting in the development of urban heat islands. An urban heat island is a phenomenon where the surface temperature and air are concentrated in urban areas rather than surrounding suburban/ rural areas. The solar energy absorbed and produced from solar radiation and anthropogenic activity is partitioned accordingly: warming the air above the surface via convection, evaporating moisture from the urban surface system, and storing heat in surface materials, such as buildings and roads. The solar energy is stored during the day and typically released during the night. Dark materials making up the buildings, impermeable soil and paved surfaces retain a majority of the solar energy. This allows for larger heat islands and increased thermal discomfort. Surface reflectivity in urban areas can impact ambient temperature. When the vegetative surface is dark and dry it can reach 52 °C, whereas when the land is light and moist it reaches 18 °C. Water evaporation usually helps to release energy from vegetative surfaces to cool the surface above. But most hotspot locations have little greenery which influences the formation of urban heat islands. Darker man-made surfaces have a lower albedo and heat capacity than natural surfaces allowing for increased photochemical reaction rates and absorption of visible radiation. This phenomenon can also be exacerbated when people release waste heat via heating and ventilating systems (e.g. air conditioners) and vehicular emissions. Expansion of these urban areas can lead to higher surface and air temperatures contributing to urban climate.\n\nBecause cities are warmer, the hot air is more likely to rise, and if the humidity is high it will cause convectional rainfall – short intense bursts of rain and thunderstorms. \nUrban areas produce particles of dust (notably soot) and these act as hygroscopic nuclei which encourages rain production.\nBecause of the warmer temperatures there is less snow in the city than surrounding areas.\n\nWind speeds are often lower in cities than the countryside because the buildings act as barriers (wind breaks). On the other hand, long streets with tall buildings can act as wind tunnels – winds funnelled down the street – and can be gusty as winds are channelled round buildings (eddying).\n\nCities usually have a lower relative humidity than the surrounding air because cities are hotter, and rainwater in cities is unable to be absorbed into the ground to be released into the air by evaporation, and transpiration does not occur because cities have little vegetation. Surface runoff is usually taken up directly into the subterranean sewage water system and thus vanishes from the surface immediately. Better understanding of urban temperature and water vapor contributions and/ or loss will reveal the reasons for lower relative humidity within cities, especially since relative humidity is dependent on temperature changes.\n\n"}
{"id": "2307245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307245", "title": "Mandulis", "text": "Mandulis\n\nMandulis was a god of ancient Nubia also worshipped in Egypt. The name Mandulis is the Greek form of Merul or Melul, a non-Egyptian name. The centre of his cult was the Temple of Kalabsha at Talmis, but he also had a temple dedicated to him at Ajuala.\n\nThe worship of Mandulis was unknown in Egypt under the native Pharaohs, the Temple of Kalabsha being constructed under the Ptolemies (305 to 30). The temple was popular during the Roman period. It was expanded under the emperors Augustus (27–14) and Vespasian (69–79). A series of dated inscriptions can be found in the temple from the reign of Vespasian down to 248 or 249. In one of these he is identified as the \"Sun, the all-seeing master, king of all, all-powerful Aion.\"\n\nBesides his own temples at Kalabsha and Ajuala, Mandulis was worshiped in the Temple of Petesi and Pihor at Dendur and at Philae. An inscription at Dendur identifies him as the \"great god, lord of Talmis\", clearly indicating the centre of his cult. At Philae, he is depicted on a wall next to the last known hieroglyphic inscription, which was dedicated to him in 394.\n\nMandulis was often depicted wearing an elaborate headdress of ram's horns, cobras and plumes surmounted by sun discs. He was sometimes shown in the form of a hawk, but with a human head.\n\n"}
{"id": "2307250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307250", "title": "Timeline of Germanic kingdoms in the Iberian Peninsula", "text": "Timeline of Germanic kingdoms in the Iberian Peninsula\n\nThis is a historical timeline of the Iberian Peninsula during the period of the Germanic kingdoms (5th to 8th centuries).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307251", "title": "Salaam Namaste", "text": "Salaam Namaste\n\nSalaam Namaste (English: \"Hello Greetings\") is a 2005 Indian romantic comedy film. It is directed by first-time director Siddharth Anand and produced by Aditya Chopra and Yash Chopra under the Yash Raj Films banner. The film stars Saif Ali Khan and Preity Zinta in their fourth film together. Arshad Warsi, Tania Zaetta and Jugal Hansraj appear in supporting roles. Released on 9 September 2005, it was the first Indian movie to be filmed entirely in Australia.\n\nThe film tells the story of two young and modern Indians, Nick and Ambar, who have left their homes to make a life on their own in Melbourne, Australia. The story follows one year of their lives, dealing with their problems and relationships, from their first meeting at a wedding ceremony, to their decision to move in together without marriage, to their break-up upon discovering that Ambar is pregnant.\n\n\"Salaam Namaste\" became one of the biggest box-office hits of 2005 in India, as well as India's biggest hit in the overseas market that year. On 24 September 2005, the script of the film was invited to be included in the Margaret Herrick Library, which is operated by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. Zinta received high praise for her role and earned her nominations for Best Actress at the Filmfare Awards, IIFA Awards, Star Screen Awards and Zee Cine Awards.\n\nNikhil \"Nick\" Arora (Saif Ali Khan) and Ambar \"Amby\" Malhotra (Preity Zinta) are two progressive, young Indians who have left India to live in Melbourne, Australia. Nick was originally sent abroad to become an architect, but his real passion is cooking. After graduating, he designs a restaurant, which he ultimately takes over and becomes the head chef. His job allows him to have a laid-back lifestyle and get up late in the morning, both aspects that he values very much. While living at home in Bangalore, Ambar had rejected more than a dozen marriage proposals. Her parents suspected that she did not want to get married, but she denied this. She arrived in Australia for a one-year foreign exchange program and decided to stay and become a surgeon. After hearing this, her parents disowned her. To pay for her education, she works as an R.J. at a local radio station, 'Salaam Namaste'.\n\nNick is scheduled to do an interview for Salaam Namaste, but he oversleeps and irritated Ambar insults him on the air. Another interview is arranged but Nick oversleeps again and he is, once again, insulted by Ambar for being late.\n\nNick is the caterer for a wedding attended by Ambar. His best friend Ranjan (Ron) (Arshad Warsi) falls in love with Ambar's best friend Cathy (Tania Zaetta) at the wedding. Nick also feels a connection with Ambar, although they have no idea who the other really is. Nick tells Ambar he is an architect and Amber tells him that she is a Student of Medicine. Ron and Cathy hastily marry the next day and Nick and Ambar discover each other's true identities. Nick gives the interview on Salaam Namaste, where he states, publicly, that he loves Ambar. Nick and Ambar become friends and eventually move in together and fall in love. They both make love. A few months later, Ambar discovers she is pregnant, and they decide to end the pregnancy. Nick takes her to get an abortion, but she cannot go through with it. The pair were fighting and then they break up.\n\nOver the next five months, they have several comical disagreements. Nick finds a restaurant to buy, but the loan is disapproved as he cannot afford the down payment since he spent all his money on the house he shares with Ambar. This results in another argument during which the baby kicks for the first time and Nick realises he still loves Ambar. Ambar asks Nick to take a blood test because she has thalassemia minor, and if he has the disease too then there will be complications. Nick takes the blood test and discovers that Ambar is carrying twins. On the way home, Nick realises that he had left Ambar alone through the whole pregnancy when she needed him the most. He decides to commit to Ambar and his unborn children and goes to buy an engagement ring. At the store, he sees Ambar trying on rings with her friend, Jignesh (Jugal Hansraj). Nick believes that Ambar is marrying Jignesh and is devastated. In a drunken haze, he takes home a drunk girl from the bar named Stella. The next morning, an annoyed Stella tells Nick that all he did the previous night was cry over Ambar. Nick is greatly relieved, but Ambar sees Stella in the bedroom and assumes that they have slept together, and she leaves in a rage. Nick discovers that Ambar was trying on rings for Jignesh's girlfriend, Tina. He searches for Ambar with the help of many devoted Salaam Namaste listeners. He finds her and apologises, but Ambar's water breaks and they rush to the hospital.\n\nAt the hospital, Ron is there with Cathy, who's giving birth as well, and the nurse turns out to be Stella. She tells Ambar that Nick didn't do anything the previous night and is in love with Ambar, who finally realises Nick's love for her. They then meet the obstetrician Dr. Vijay (Abhishek Bachchan), who turns out to be a very comical and incompetent doctor but manages to deliver the children. Ambar gives birth to twins and Nick proposes to her to which she joyously agrees.\n\n\nSeveral people made cameos in the film. Abhishek Bachchan is the narrator and makes a special appearance as a doctor towards the end. Director Siddharth Anand makes an appearance as the taxi driver towards the end. The mother and son in the bookshop Saif Ali Khan's character visits, are actor Arshad Warsi's wife and son, Maria Goretti and Zeke. Preity Zinta's then-boyfriend, Ness Wadia, makes an appearance as the man reading the newspaper beside whom Preity sits on the bus.\n\nThe film has seven songs composed by the duo Vishal-Shekhar. The music of the film released on 10 August 2005. The music includes four songs and two remixes. Lyrics are penned by Jaideep Sahni. According to the Indian trade website Box Office India, with around 14,00,000 units sold, this film's soundtrack album was the year's thirteenth highest-selling.\n\nPopular Bollywood website Bollywood Hungama rated \"Salaam Namaste\" 3 out of 5 stars. The film received mostly positive reviews. The film was said to resemble the 1995 American film \"Nine Months\", with film critic Anubha Sawhney precising that \"huge parts of \"Salaam Namaste\" are direct lifts from the Hugh Grant-Julianne Moore starrer.\" \"Screen\" described the film as \"a visual treat\", praised the performances of Khan and Zinta who \"live their roles\" and Anand's \"confident debut\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307252", "title": "Misprision", "text": "Misprision\n\nMisprision (from , modern , \"to misunderstand\") is a term of English law used to describe certain kinds of offence. Writers on criminal law usually divide misprision into two kinds: negative and positive.\n\nIt survives in the law of England and Wales and Northern Ireland only in the term misprision of treason.\n\nNegative misprision is the concealment of treason or felony. By the common law of England it was the duty of every liege subject to inform the king's justices and other officers of the law of all treasons and felonies of which the informant had knowledge, and to bring the offender to justice by arrest (see Sheriffs Act 1887, s. 8). The duty fell primarily on the grand jurors of each county borough or franchise (until the abolition of grand juries in 1933), and is performed by indictment or presentment, but it also falls in theory on all other inhabitants. Failure by the latter to discharge this public duty constitutes what is known as misprision of treason or felony.\n\nMisprision of treason, in the words of Blackstone, \"[consists] in the bare knowledge and concealment of treason, without any degree of assent thereto: for any assent makes the party a principal traitor\". According to Bracton, de Corond, seq. 118, failure to reveal the treason of another was in itself high treason, but statutes of 1551–1552 and 1554–1555 made concealment of treason misprision only. Most of the statutes regulating procedure on trials for treason also apply to misprision of treason. The punishment is loss of the profit of the lands of the offender during life, forfeiture of all his goods and imprisonment for life. These punishments are not affected by the Forfeiture Act 1870.\n\nMisprision of felony is the concealment of a felony committed by another person, but without such previous concert with, or subsequent assistance of the offender, as would make the concealer an accessory before or after the fact. The offence was (and in the United States still is) a misdemeanour punishable on indictment by fine and imprisonment.\n\nUnder the old common law hierarchy of crimes (as treasons, felonies and misdemeanours), misprision of treason was a felony and misprision of felony was a misdemeanour. (There was no such offence as misprision of a misdemeanour.) These categories were abolished in 1967.\n\nIn the United States, misprision of treason (\") is defined to be the crime committed by a person owing allegiance to the United States, and having knowledge of the commission of any treasonous crime against them, who conceals and does not, as soon as may be, disclose and make known the same to the president or to some judge of the United States, or to the governor, or to some judge or justice of a particular state. The punishment is imprisonment for not more than seven years and a fine of not more than one thousand dollars.\n\nThe United States Code also includes misprision of felony (\").\n\nPositive misprision is the doing of something which ought not to be done; or the commission of a serious offence falling short of treason or felony, in other words of a misdemeanour of a public character (e.g. maladministration of high officials, contempt of the sovereign or magistrates). To endeavour to dissuade a witness from giving evidence, to disclose an examination before the privy council, or to advise a prisoner to stand mute, used to be described as misprisions (Hawk. P. C. bk. I. c. 20).\n\n\"The old writers say that a misprision is contained in every felony and that the Crown may elect to prosecute for the misprision instead of the felony. This proposition merely affirms the right of the Crown to choose a more merciful remedy in certain cases, and has no present value in the law. Positive misprisions are now only of antiquarian interest, being treated as misdemeanours.\"\n\nNone of the following offences are described as misprision, but they have a similar scope.\n\nSection 38B of the Terrorism Act 2000 (c.11) creates the offence of failure to disclose information that might prevent an act of terrorism or secure the apprehension, prosecution or conviction of a person for an offence involving the commission, preparation or instigation of an act of terrorism. The maximum sentence was increased from five years to ten years in 2019.\n\nSection 19 of the same Act creates an offence of failure to disclose a belief or suspicion that a person has committed an offence under sections 15 to 18 of that Act if that belief or suspicion arises from information acquired in the course of employment or professional work. The maximum sentence is still five years.\n\nIn England and Wales, there is no longer a positive obligation on a person who is aware of an offence having been committed to report it. However, section 5(1) of the Criminal Law Act 1967 provides that if a person knows or believes that a \"relevant offence\" has been committed, and they have information which might be useful in prosecuting the person who committed it, then if they accept any consideration in return for not disclosing that information, they commit the offence of concealing an offence. There is an exception for \"making good of loss or injury caused by the offence\", and for \"the making of reasonable compensation for that loss or injury\". In this context, \"relevant offence\" means one for which the sentence is fixed by law, such as murder, or where a prison sentence of five years or more can be given.\n\nSections 5(1) and (2) of the Criminal Law Act (Northern Ireland) 1967 (c.18) (N.I.) creates the offence of failure to disclose information which might secure the apprehension, prosecution or conviction of a person for an arrestable offence.\n\nUnited States law defines misprision of felony as a federal crime. If one knows that one is a target of a Federal investigation, it is illegal under the Sarbanes–Oxley Act to erase one's browser history intentionally. Khairullozhan Matanov was prosecuted for erasing computer records about his friends, Dhzokar and Tamerlan Tsarnaev; he pleaded guilty to a lesser included offense in 2015.\n\nThe term \"misprision\" can also be applied in some legal systems to a wilful act or omission by a person who is involved in or has knowledge of the facts of a crime, which causes in the end result an innocent person to be punished for the crime; e.g., a frameup.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, such as New York and the military justice system, misprision also refers to the \"intent to cause a false impression\", for example, for the sale of fake drugs, such as oregano instead of marijuana.\n\n"}
{"id": "2307257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307257", "title": "Lars Arvid Nilsen", "text": "Lars Arvid Nilsen\n\nLars Arvid Nilsen (born 15 April 1965 in Notodden) is a retired Norwegian shot putter. He represented Urædd Friidrett.\n\nHe finished fifth at the 1986 European Championships, fifth at the 1987 World Indoor Championships, tenth at the 1990 European Indoor Championships, sixth at the 1990 European Championships and fifth at the 1991 World Indoor Championships. He became Norwegian champion in 1989 and 1991. Later in 1991 he won the bronze medal at the World Championships in Tokyo with a throw of 20.75 metres, but as the silver medalist Georg Andersen was later disqualified from the competition because of using a banned substance, Nilsen was promoted to silver medal position. Nilsen's last international competition was the 1992 European Indoor Championships, where he finished seventh.\n\nHis personal best throw was 21.22 metres, achieved in June 1986 in Indianapolis. This is the current Norwegian record.\n\nNilsen was tested for and found to be using banned substances in 1987 and 1992, which led to a lifetime ban from organized sports. In 2004 he was pardoned and is free to participate in organized sports and competitions in any other sports than shot put. He may not participate in competitions which qualify for national or international championships.\n"}
{"id": "2307259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307259", "title": "Fictitious capital", "text": "Fictitious capital\n\nFictitious capital (German: \"fiktives Kapital\") is a concept used by Karl Marx in his critique of political economy. It is introduced in chapter 25 of the third volume of Capital. Fictitious capital contrasts with what Marx calls \"real capital\", which is capital actually invested in physical means of production and workers, and \"money capital\", which is actual funds being held. The market value of fictitious capital assets (such as stocks and securities) varies according to the expected return or yield of those assets in the future, which Marx felt was only indirectly related to the growth of real production. Effectively, fictitious capital represents \"accumulated claims, legal titles, to future production\" and more specifically claims to the income generated by that production.\n\n\nIn terms of mainstream financial economics, fictitious capital is the net present value of expected future cash flows.\n\nMarx saw the origin of fictitious capital in the development of the credit system and the joint-stock system.\n\n\"The formation of a fictitious capital is called capitalisation.\" It represents a claim to property rights or income. Such claims can take many forms, for example, a claim on future government tax revenue or a claim issued against a commodity that remains, as yet, unsold. The stocks, shares and bonds issued by companies and traded on stock markets are also fictitious capital. \n\nA company may raise (non-fictitious) capital by issuing stocks, shares and bonds. This capital may then be used to generate surplus value, but once this capital is set in motion, the claims held by the owners of the share certificate, etc., are simply \"marketable claims to a share in future surplus value production\". The stock market \"is a market for fictitious capital. It is a market for the circulation of property rights as such\".\n\nSince the value of these claims does not function as capital, is merely a claim on future surplus, \"the capital-value of such paper is...wholly illusory... The paper serves as title of ownership which represents this capital.\n\nThe stocks of railways, mines, navigation companies, and the like, represent actual capital, namely, the capital invested and functioning in such enterprises, or the amount of money advanced by the stockholders for the purpose of being used as capital in such enterprises...; but this capital does not exist twice, once as the capital-value of titles of ownership (stocks) on the one hand and on the other hand as the actual capital invested, or to be invested, in those enterprises.\" The capital \"exists only in the latter form\", while the stock or share \"is merely a title of ownership to a corresponding portion of the surplus-value to be realised by it\".\n\nThe formation of fictitious capital is, for Marx, linked to the wider contradiction between the financial system in capitalism and its monetary basis. Marx writes: \"With the development of interest-bearing capital and the credit system, all capital seems to double itself, and sometimes treble itself, by the various modes in which the same capital, or perhaps even the same claim on a debt, appears in different forms in different hands. The greater portion of this 'money-capital' is purely fictitious. All the deposits, with the exception of the reserve fund, are merely claims on the banker, which, however, never exist as deposits.\" The expansion of the credit system can, in periods of capitalist expansion, be beneficial for the system; but in periods of economic crisis and uncertainty, capitalists tend, Marx argues, to look to the security of the \"money-commodity\" (gold) as the ultimate measure of value. Marx tends to assume the convertibility of paper money into gold. However, the modern system of inconvertible paper money, backed by the authority of states, poses greater problems. Here, in periods of crisis, \"the capitalist class appears to have a choice between devaluing money or commodities, between inflation or depression. In the event that monetary policy is dedicated to avoiding both, it will merely end up incurring both\".\n\nProfit can be made purely from trading in a variety of \"financial claims\" existing only on paper. This is an extreme form of the fetishism of commodities in which the underlying source of surplus-value in exploitation of labour power is disguised. Indeed, profit can be made by using only \"borrowed capital\" to engage in (speculative) trade, not backed up by any tangible asset.\n\nThe price of fictitious capital is governed by a series of complex determinants. In the first instance they are governed by the \"present and anticipated future incomes to which ownership entitles the holder, capitalised at the going rate of interest\". But fictitious capital is also the object of speculation. The market value of such assets can be driven up and artificially inflated, purely as a result of supply and demand factors which can themselves be manipulated for profit. The inflated value can just as rapidly be punctured if large amounts of capital are withdrawn.\n\nMarx cites the case of a Mr Chapman who testified before the British Bank Acts Committee in 1857:\n\n\"though in 1857 he was himself still a magnate on the money market, [Chapman] complained bitterly that there were several large money capitalists in London who were strong enough to bring the entire money market into disorder at a given moment and in this way fleece the smaller money dealers most shamelessly. There were supposed to be several great sharks of this kind who could significantly intensify a difficult situation by selling one or two million pounds worth of Consols and in this way taking an equivalent sum of banknotes (and thereby available loan capital) out of the market. The collaboration of three big banks in such a manoeuvre would suffice to turn a pressure into a panic.\" \n\nMarx added that:\n\n\"The biggest capital power in London is of course the Bank of England, but its position as a semi-state institution makes it impossible for it to assert its domination in so brutal a fashion. Nonetheless, it too is sufficiently capable of looking after itself... Inasmuch as the Bank issues notes that are not backed by the metal reserve in its vaults, it \"creates tokens of value that are not only means of circulation, but also forms additional - even if fictitious - capital for it\", to the nominal value of these fiduciary notes, and this extra capital yields it an extra profit.\"\n\nMarx writes:\n\n\"To the extent that the depreciation or increase in value of this paper is independent of the movement of value of the actual capital that it represents, the wealth of the nation is just as great before as after its depreciation or increase in value.\n\n\"The public stocks and canal and railway shares had already by the 23rd of October, 1847, been depreciated in the aggregate to the amount of £114,752,225.\" (Morris, Governor of the Bank of England, testimony in the Report on Commercial Distress, 1847-48 [No. 3800].)\n\n\"Unless this depreciation reflected an actual stoppage of production and of traffic on canals and railways, or a suspension of already initiated enterprises, or squandering capital in positively worthless ventures, the nation did not grow one cent poorer by the bursting of this soap bubble of nominal money-capital.\"\n"}
{"id": "2307263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307263", "title": "Apedemak", "text": "Apedemak\n\nApedemek or Apademek was a lion-headed warrior god worshiped by the Meroitic peoples inhabiting Nubia. A number of Meroitic temples dedicated to this deity are known from the Western Butana region: Naqa, Meroe, and Musawwarat es-Sufra, which seems to be his chief cult place. In the temple of Naqa built by the rulers of Meroe Apedemak was depicted as a three-headed leonine god with four arms, and as a snake with a lion head. However, he is usually depicted as a man with a lion head.\n\nApedemak was considered the war god of Kush. The Kushites believed that Apedemak brought victories to their armies and defeated their enemies. When Kushite pharaohs carried out military campaigns, they often claimed the support and companionship of Apedemak.\n\n"}
{"id": "2307266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307266", "title": "Charles FitzRoy, 10th Duke of Grafton", "text": "Charles FitzRoy, 10th Duke of Grafton\n\nCharles Alfred Euston FitzRoy, 10th Duke of Grafton (4 June 1892 – 11 November 1970), known as Charles FitzRoy until 1936, was a British aristocrat, soldier, politician, and farmer.\n\nHe was born at Euston Hall near Thetford, the eldest son of the Reverend Lord Charles Edward FitzRoy and of his wife, Hon. Ismay FitzRoy, daughter of Charles FitzRoy, 3rd Baron Southampton. His paternal grandparents were Augustus FitzRoy, 7th Duke of Grafton, and Anna Balfour. Another ancestor, Anne Warren, was the daughter of Admiral Sir Peter Warren and a descendant of the Schuyler family, the Van Cortlandt family, and the Delancey family, all from British North America.\n\nHe was educated at Wellington and then at the Royal Military College, Sandhurst.\n\nIn 1911, he joined the Royal Welch Fusiliers, who were stationed at Quetta in what is now Pakistan. In 1914, soon after the outbreak of the Great War, he went to France, and in 1917, he was appointed as aide-de-camp and comptroller to Lord Buxton, Governor General of South Africa. He remained in South Africa until 1920. In 1921, he retired from the army.\n\nAfter retirement from the Army he became a farmer at Coney Weston in Suffolk. From 1927 to 1936, he was land agent for his first wife's maternal uncle, Owen Hugh Smith, at Langham in Rutland. In 1936, he succeeded his cousin as Duke of Grafton and inherited the family estates based at Euston Hall.\n\nHe married, firstly, Lady Doreen Maria Josepha Sydney Buxton (29 November 1897 – 28 July 1923), daughter of his commanding officer Sydney Buxton, 1st Earl Buxton, and his wife, Mildred Anne Smith, on 24 January 1918. They had three children:\n\n\nA year after his first wife's death, he married, secondly, Lucy Eleanor Barnes (25 December 1897 – 11 September 1943), daughter of Sir George Stapylton Barnes and of his wife, Sybil de Gournay Buxton. The ceremony took place on 6 October 1924. Lucy was the first cousin of Charles' first wife. They had two children:\n\n\nThe year after his second wife's death, he married, thirdly, Rita Emily Carr-Ellison (24 October 1911 – 24 August 1970), daughter of John Ralph Carr-Ellison and of his wife, Alice Ursula Lang. The ceremony took place on 18 July 1944.\n\nHe died at Bury St Edmunds on 11 November 1970.\n"}
{"id": "2307268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307268", "title": "Antebellum South Carolina", "text": "Antebellum South Carolina\n\nAntebellum South Carolina is typically defined by historians as South Carolina during the period between the War of 1812, which ended in 1815, and the American Civil War, which began in 1861.\n\nAfter the invention of the cotton gin in 1793, the economies of the Upcountry and the Lowcountry of the state became fairly equal in wealth. The expansion of cotton cultivation upstate led to a marked increase in the labor demand, with a concomitant rise in the slave trade. The trans-Atlantic slave trade, or international buying and selling of slaves, was outlawed by the United States in 1808, as of which date South Carolina was the only state that had not already prohibited the importation of slaves. After that date there was a burgeoning domestic or internal, national slave trade in the U.S.\n\nIn 1822, free black craftsman and preacher Denmark Vesey was convicted for having masterminded a plan to overthrow Charlestonian whites. In reaction, whites established curfews for black people and forbade assembly of large numbers of blacks; the education of slaves was prohibited.\n\nIn 1828, John C. Calhoun decided that constitutionally, each state government (within their state) had more power than the federal government. Consequently, if a state deemed it necessary, it had the right to \"nullify\" any federal law (the Tariff of 1828 and the Tariff of 1832) within its boundaries. Calhoun resigned as Vice President, as he planned to become a South Carolina Senator to stop its run toward secession. He wanted to resolve problems which were inflaming his fellow Carolinians. Before federal forces arrived at Charleston in response to challenges of tariff laws, Calhoun and Henry Clay agreed upon a Compromise Tariff of 1833 to lower the rates over ten years. The Nullification Crisis was resolved for the time being.\n\nIn 1786, leaders of the state agreed to ease tensions between Upcountry and Lowcountry citizens by moving the capital from Charleston to a location more convenient to both regions. With the capital in Charleston, Upcountry citizens had to travel two days simply to reach state government offices and state courts. The town of Columbia, South Carolina, the first city in America to take that name, was planned and erected. In 1790, the state's politicians moved in, although state offices remained in Charleston until 1865. The Lowcountry and Upcountry even had separate treasury offices with separate treasurers. In 1800, the Santee Canal was completed, connecting the Santee and Cooper Rivers. This made it possible to transport goods directly from the new capital to Charleston. In 1801, the state chartered South Carolina College (now the University of South Carolina) in Columbia.\n\nSettled first because of its coastal access, the Lowcountry had the greater population. It had achieved early economic dominance because of wealth derived from the cultivation of both rice and long-staple cotton, a major crop. This was easier to process by hand than short-staple cotton. In the Upcountry's soil, only short-staple cotton could be cultivated. It was extremely labor-intensive to process by hand.\n\nIn 1793, Eli Whitney's invention of the cotton gin made processing of short-staple cotton economically viable. Upcountry landowners began to increase their cultivation of cotton and to import increased numbers of enslaved Africans and free blacks to raise and process the crops. The Upcountry developed its own wealthy planter class and began to work with Lowcountry planters to protect the institution of slavery.\n\nThe state's over-reliance on cotton in its economy paved the way for post-Civil War poverty in three ways: planters ruined large swaths of land by over-cultivation, small farmers in the upcountry reduced subsistence farming in favor of cotton, and greater profits in other states led to continued departure of many talented people, both white and black. From 1820 to 1860 nearly 200,000 whites left the state, mostly for Deep South states and frontier opportunities. Many of them took enslaved African-Americans with them; other slaves were sold to traders for plantations in the Deep South. In addition, because planters wore out new lands in-state or moved rather than invest in fertilizer or manufacturing, South Carolina did not begin to industrialize until much later.\n\nIn 1811, British ships plundered American ships, inspiring outraged \"War Hawk\" representatives into declaring the War of 1812. During the war, tariffs on imported goods were raised to support America's military efforts. Afterward, as the North began to create manufacturing centers, Northern lawmakers passed higher taxes on imports to protect the new industries. Because the South had an agricultural economy, it did not benefit from the tariffs and believed they interfered with the South's trade with Great Britain and Europe based on cotton and rice.\n\nIn the 1820s, many South Carolinians began to talk of seceding from the union to operate as an independent state with trade laws tailored to its own best interests. Even South Carolina-born John C. Calhoun, who had begun as a Federalist favoring a strong centralized government, began to change his views. He believed rights of his home state were being trampled for the \"good\" of the North, though he also recognized the political dangers of secession. In 1828, Calhoun decided upon the primacy of \"states' rights\", a doctrine which he would support for the rest of his life. He believed that constitutionally, the state government of each state had more power within that state than did the federal government. Consequently, if a state deemed it necessary, it had the right to \"nullify\" any federal law within its boundaries.\n\nTo most South Carolinians, this sounded like a reasonable compromise. Some in the state, such as Joel J. Poinsett, novelist William Gilmore Simms, and James L. Petigru, believed that while a state had the full right to secede from the Union if it chose, it had no right, as long as it remained part of the Union, to nullify a federal law. The federal government believed the concept of nullification was as an attack on its powers. When in 1832, South Carolina's government quickly \"nullified\" the hated tariffs passed by the full Congress, President Andrew Jackson declared this an act of open rebellion and ordered U.S. ships to South Carolina to enforce the law.\n\nIn December 1832, Calhoun resigned as Jackson's vice president. He was the only vice president to resign until Spiro Agnew did so, 141 years later. Calhoun planned to become a senator in South Carolina to stop its run toward secession. He wanted to work on solving the problems that troubled his fellow Carolinians. Before federal forces arrived at Charleston, Calhoun and Senator Henry Clay agreed upon a compromise. They had often worked effectively together before. Clay persuaded Congress to pass the Compromise Tariff of 1833, which lowered the tariff gradually over 10 years (see copy on the page). The passage of this tariff prevented armed conflict.\n\nThe debate about the relative importance of states' rights versus federal power became a dividing line between the North and South. The political discussion was related to the differing rates of growth of the regions. Increased immigration to the North had meant a faster rate of growth in its population and gave it an advantage in representation, despite the 3/5 compromise that allowed the South to use its enslaved population in figuring Congressional representation.\n\nThe 19th century religious revival in the South had first been led by Methodist and Baptist preachers who opposed slavery. Gradually they began to adopt the Southern viewpoint. The Methodist and Baptist churches grew as their preachers accommodated slaveholding as a principle of continuity. Southern slaveholders looked to the Bible for language to control slaves. Southern slaveholders generally saw abolitionists as dangerous, self-righteous meddlers who would be better off tending to themselves than passing judgement on the choices of others. Pro-slavery apologists argued that the Northerners had no place in the debate over the morality of slavery, because they could not own slaves and would therefore not suffer the societal impacts that manumission would mean to the South.\n\nThe effect of bloody slave rebellions, such as the Vesey revolt of 1822 and John Brown's massacre at Harper's Ferry in 1859, was to reduce moderate abolitionists to silence, particularly in the South. These events inflamed fears and galvanized Southerners into an anti-abolitionist stance that effectively ended reasoned debate on the issue. South Carolinians had earlier tolerated slavery as a necessary evil. In an evolving concept, they came to proclaim slavery a positive good, a civilizing benefit to the enslaved, and a proper response to the \"natural\" differences between whites and blacks.\n\nApologists such as Thomas Harper argued that the wage-employee system of the North was more exploitative than slavery itself. So avid had this defense become that by 1856, Governor James Hopkins Adams recommended a resumption of the Foreign Slave Trade. A powerful minority of slaveholders had begun arguing that every white man should be legally required to own at least one slave, which they claimed would give an interest in the issue and instill responsibility. The Charleston \"Mercury\" denounced the slave trade; a number of newly captured slaves were imported into Charleston against federal law.\n\nSince colonial times, South Carolina had always been home to a sizable population of free blacks. Many were descended from enslaved mulattoes freed by their white fathers/owners. Others had been freed for faithful service. Some African-Americans purchased their freedom with portions of earnings they were allowed to keep when being \"hired out\". As long as there had been free blacks, they made the white population nervous.\n\nIn 1822, a free black craftsman and preacher, Denmark Vesey, was convicted of having masterminded a plan for (both enslaved and free) African-Americans to overthrow Charlestonian whites. Afterward, whites established curfews and forbade assembly of large numbers of African- Americans. They prohibited educating enslaved African-Americans, as they believed slaves' learning to read and write would make them unhappy and less compliant. Free African-Americans posed a challenge to slavery by their very presence. South Carolina leaders prohibited slaveholders from freeing their slaves without a special decree from the state legislature. This was the same path that Virginia had taken when its slaveholders became uneasy about freedmen.\n\nLike Denmark Vesey, most of South Carolina's free blacks lived in Charleston, where there were opportunities for work and companionship. A free African-American subculture developed there. Charlestonian blacks held more than 55 different occupations, including a variety of artisan and craft jobs. Some African-Americans, such as Sumter cotton gin-maker William Ellison, amassed great fortunes. He did so in the same fashion that most wealthy whites had by using the labor of black slaves.\n\nAs settlers pressed against western lands controlled by Native Americans, violence repeatedly erupted between them. Andrew Jackson came to the Presidency determined to pave the way for American settlers. In 1830 he signed the Indian Removal Act, by which he offered Native Americans land in unsettled areas west of the Mississippi River, in exchange for their lands in existing states. While some tribes accepted this solution, others resisted. By this time, the Cherokee Nation had been mostly pushed west and south out of South Carolina into Georgia.\n\nSouth Carolina strongly supported the Mexican War, as its leaders believed success would allow acquisition of additional lands open to slavery. They hoped for slaveholding states to acquire greater power in the U.S. Congress. The State raised a regiment of volunteers known as the Palmetto Regiment. The Palmetto Regiment was prepared and trained for the Mexican–American War by cadets and faculty at The Citadel, The Military College of South Carolina in Charleston. The Citadel created a training system which is known today as boot camp or recruit training, to prepare the men for combat. The Citadel cadets who trained the Palmetto Regiment were known as drillmasters, a term which later evolved into drill instructors. Under Pierce M. Butler, J.P. Dickinson, and A.H. Gladden, the Palmetto Regiment's flag entered Mexico City before any other. Chiefly due to disease, however, only 300 men returned alive of the 1,100 South Carolinian volunteers who fought.\n\nAs the Mexican War drew to a close, the introduction of the Wilmot Proviso in the U.S. Congress raised sectional tensions, this time over the issue of slavery. Introduced by a northern congressman as a rider on a war appropriations bill, the proviso specified that slavery would not be permitted in any territory ceded by Mexico. In the debate which followed, both national political parties split along sectional (regional) lines. The South had furnished more men for the war (435,248 versus the North's 22,136) and expected this sacrifice to be rewarded with new slave states carved out of the conquered lands. Although twice passed in the House of Representatives, the proviso was defeated in the Senate. However, the contention over extending slavery into new American territories was far from over; ultimately it was one of the causes of the Civil War.\n\nJohn Belton O'Neall summarized the Negro Act of 1740, in his written work, \"The Negro Law of South Carolina\", when he stated: \"A slave may, by the consent of his master, acquire and hold personal property. All, thus required, is regarded in law as that of the master.\" Across the South, state supreme courts supported the position of this law. \n\nIn 1848, O'Neall was the only one to express protest against the Act, arguing for the propriety of receiving testimony from enslaved Africans (many of whom, by 1848, were Christians) under oath: \n\"Negroes (slave or free) will feel the sanctions of an oath, with as much force as any of the ignorant classes of white people, in a Christian country.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307273", "title": "Timeline of 8th- and 9th-century Portuguese history", "text": "Timeline of 8th- and 9th-century Portuguese history\n\nThis is a historical timeline of Portugal.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307276", "title": "Douglas XA-2", "text": "Douglas XA-2\n\nThe Douglas XA-2 was an American prototype attack aircraft converted from a Douglas O-2 observation aircraft in the spring 1926 by Douglas Aircraft. Only one prototype aircraft was built and the type was not ordered into production.\n\nOne Douglas O-2, serial number \"25-380\", was modified for the new role as an attack aircraft, while the basic structure of the aircraft remained, there were several modifications made. The water-cooled Liberty engine (V-1650) of the O-2 was replaced by an inverted air-cooled Allison VG-1410 engine. The reason for this was that a water cooling system was seen as too vulnerable to enemy attack. The lower engine cowlings were omitted to allow for more cooling air flow over the engine. Second, the A-2 was more heavily armed than the O-2. The A-2 had six forward-firing .30-caliber Browning machine guns - two in the nose forward of the cockpit, and two each in the mid-upper and lower wings. Two .30-caliber Lewis guns were put on a flexible mount for use by the observer-gunner in rear defense of the aircraft. The aircraft also had the capacity for a small bomb load of 100 lb (45 kg).\n\nThe Douglas XA-2 was evaluated against the Curtiss XA-3 (a conversion of the Curtiss O-1B observation plane). The Douglas Aircraft won the initial competition, but the Army realized that the Liberty engine was both underpowered and in dwindling supply. It ordered a second competition with both models upgraded with Packard 1A-1500 engines. The Curtiss aircraft won this time and became the U.S. Army Air Corps' frontline attack aircraft (Curtiss A-3 Attack Falcon) from 1928 to 1935.\n\n"}
{"id": "2307279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307279", "title": "Durbar (court)", "text": "Durbar (court)\n\nDurbar is a Persian-derived term (from - \"darbār\") meaning the kings' or rulers noble court or a formal meeting where the king held all discussions regarding the state. It was used in India for a ruler's court or feudal levy as the latter came to be ruled and later administered by foreigners. A durbar may be either a feudal state council for administering the affairs of a princely state, or a purely ceremonial gathering, as in the time of the British Empire in India.\n\nThe most famous Durbars belonged to great Emperors and Kings. In the North, cities like Udaipur, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Jaiselmer, and Agra have palaces that adorn such magnificent halls. The Mughal Emperor Akbar had two halls; one for his ministers and the other for the general public. Usually Durbar halls are lavishly decorated with the best possible materials available at the time.\n\nIn the south of India, the Mysore Palace had a number of such halls, especially the Peacock Hall, having colour tinted glasses imported from Belgium, which were used for marriage ceremonies. The Durbar Hall in the Khilawat Mubarak, in the city of Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh, was the durbar hall of the Nizams of Hyderabad.\n\nBeneath the main Dome of the Rastrapati Bhavan (Presidential Palace of India, today) is present the grand Durbar Hall, where many state functions, presided by the President of India, are held.\n\nIn the former sense, the native rulers of Mughal and colonial India and some neighbouring Hindu or Muslim monarchies, like the amir of Afghanistan, received visitors in audience, conferred honours and conducted business in durbar.\n\nA durbar could also be the executive council of a native state. Its membership was dual: the court's grandees, such as the wasir and major jagirdars, shone at the ceremonies but the real political and administrative affairs of state rather rested with an inner circle around the prince, often known as diwan. There was some overlap between the two groups. This was originally another word for audience room and council, but in India it also applies to a privy council and chancery.\n\nThe word Durbar has come to be applied to great ceremonial gatherings called the Delhi Durbar in Delhi and elsewhere during the period of the British Raj, held as demonstrations of the loyalty to the crown which also proved vital in various wars in which Britain engaged.\n\nThe practice was started with Lord Lytton's Proclamation Durbar of 1877 celebrating the proclamation of Queen Victoria as the first Empress of India. Durbars continued to be held in later years, with increased ceremony and grandeur than their predecessors. In 1903, for instance, the Coronation Durbar was held in Delhi to celebrate the accession of Edward VII to the British throne and title of Emperor of India. This ceremony was presided over by the Viceroy of India, Lord Curzon.\n\nThe practice of the durbar culminated in the magnificent spectacle that was the Delhi Durbar, which was held in December 1911 to officially crown the newly enthroned George V and his wife Queen Mary as Emperor and Empress of India. The King and Queen attended the Durbar in person and wore their Coronation robes, an unprecedented event in both Indian and Imperial history held with unprecedented pomp and glamour. They were the only British monarchs to visit India during the period of British rule.\n\nNo durbar was held for later British monarchs who were Emperors of India. Edward VIII reigned only a brief time before abdicating. On the accession of his brother George VI, it was decided to hold no durbar in Delhi, due to several reasons: the cost would have been a burden to the government of India, rising Indian nationalism made the welcome that the royal couple would have received likely to be muted at best, and a prolonged absence of the King from the UK would have been undesirable in the tense period before World War II.\n\nIn Malaysian history, the Durbar was the council comprising the four rulers of the Federated Malay States under British protectorate. First held in 1897, it was a platform for the rulers to discuss issues pertaining state policies with British officials.\n\nWhen the Federation of Malaya was formed in 1948, the Durbar transformed into the Conference of Rulers with the inclusion of the other states of Malaya. The membership was further enlarged with the addition of new states in the formation of Malaysia in 1963.\n\nSince the independence of Malaya in 1957, the Malay rulers in the Conference of Rulers function as the electoral college for the election of the federal king, the Yang di-Pertuan Agong.\n\nThe Durbar Hall at the Fateh Prakash Palace in Udaipur, Rajasthan, is one of the most lavish Durbar Halls in India and one of the grandest chambers in Udaipur. It is decorated with paintings of Maharanas and various weapons adorn the walls. The hall has an exquisite ceiling and is surrounded by viewing galleries from where the ladies of the palace could view the proceedings while remaining veiled. Lord Minto, the Viceroy of India, laid the foundation stone for the Durbar hall in 1909.\n\nLocated in the old city of Hyderabad in close proximity to the Charminar, the khliwat complex, originally spread over had numerous palaces and structures in its vast sprawl. One of the most important buildings to have survived the passage of time is the Durbar Hall. The symbolic seat of power, it housed the \"Gaddi-e-Mubarak\", the hereditary throne of the Asaf Jahi dynasty.\n\nFirst constructed in 1750 by the Nizam, Salabat Jung, the Khilwat complex has been added to by successive nizams. Sikandar Jah shifted his residence to the Khilwat complex from the Purani Haveli in 1803 and was responsible for the first major constructions.\nThe plan of the Durbar Hall is in traditional Moghul style. Subsequent remodelling, at a time when European architecture was gaining acceptance, resulted in a unique and harmonious mix of diverse architectural styles. European architectural influences, although dominant, blend smoothly with the vernacular, to create one of the best examples of Inde European architectural synthesis. The resulting style was to become a distinctive feature of many later buildings in Hyderabad as it provided for a change without compromising the spatial needs of eastern lifestyle and social requirements. \n\n"}
{"id": "2307281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307281", "title": "J. O. Bailey", "text": "J. O. Bailey\n\nJames Osler Bailey (August 12, 1903 – 1979) was a professor of literature who taught at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. He wrote on a wide slate of topics ranging from the works of Edgar Allan Poe and Thomas Hardy to science fiction and utopian literature.\n\nBailey was born at Raleigh, North Carolina, to Thomas Benjamin Bailey, a city employee, and Nancy Priscilla (née Smith). He was educated at the University of North Carolina (A.B. 1924, M.A. 1927, Ph.D 1934) and taught English there from 1930.\n\nThe Science Fiction Research Association gives recognition in the form of the Pilgrim Award in honor of his seminal work \"Pilgrims Through Space and Time\". Reviewer Willy Ley, however, found the volume disappointing; while praising the core of the work, the master's thesis and doctoral dissertation written by Bailey years earlier, he faulted the remainder of the book as inferior, \"obviously pasted to the original dissertation both loosely and clumsily.\"\n\nHe was struck by a car and died later from a blood clot, in 1979.\n\n\nHe donated his correspondence with playwright Eugene O'Neill to The Museum of the City of New York. His correspondence with publisher William Terry Crouch and playwright Paul Green are at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill library.\n\n"}
{"id": "2307285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307285", "title": "NASA/IPAC Extragalactic Database", "text": "NASA/IPAC Extragalactic Database\n\nThe NASA/IPAC Extragalactic Database (NED) is an online astronomical database for astronomers that collates and cross-correlates astronomical information on extragalactic objects (galaxies, quasars, radio, x-ray and infrared sources, etc.). NED was created in the late 1980s by two Pasadena astronomers, George Helou and Barry F. Madore. NED is funded by NASA and is operated by the Infrared Processing and Analysis Center (IPAC) on the campus of the California Institute of Technology, under contract with NASA.\n\nNED is built around a master list of extragalactic objects for which cross-identifications of names have been established, accurate positions and redshifts entered to the extent possible, and some basic data collected. Bibliographic references relevant to individual objects have been compiled, and abstracts of extragalactic interest are kept on line. Detailed and referenced photometry, position, and redshift data, have been taken from large compilations and from the literature.\n\nNED also includes images from 2MASS, from the literature, and from the Digitized Sky Survey.\n\nAs of March 2014, NED contains 206 million distinct astronomical objects with 232 million cross-identifications across multiple wavelengths, with redshift measurements for 5 million objects, 1.9 billion photometric data points, 609 million diameter measurements, 71 thousand redshift-independent distances for over 15 thousand galaxies, 310 thousand detailed classifications for 230 thousand objects, and 2.6 million images, maps and external links, together with links to 65 thousand journal articles, notes and abstracts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307287", "title": "2005–06 Niger food crisis", "text": "2005–06 Niger food crisis\n\nThe 2005–06 Niger food crisis was a severe but localized food security crisis in the regions of northern Maradi, Tahoua, Tillabéri, and Zinder of Niger from 2005 to 2006. It was caused by an early end to the 2004 rains, desert locust damage to some pasture lands, high food prices, and chronic poverty. In the affected area, 2.4 million of 3.6 million people are considered highly vulnerable to food insecurity. An international assessment stated that, of these, over 800,000 face extreme food insecurity and another 800,000 in moderately insecure food situations are in need of aid.\n\nThe crisis had long been predicted after swarms of locusts consumed nearly all crops in parts of Niger during the 2004 agricultural season. In other areas, insufficient rainfall resulted in exceptionally poor harvests and dry pastures affecting both farmers and livestock breeders. An assessment carried out by the government of Niger, the United Nations and international Non Governmental Organizations reached a general consensus that the crisis, while locally severe, had not reached the level of famine according to famine scales.\n\nThe population of Niger increased more than fivefold between 1950 and 2005, from 2.5 million to 13.5 million. The fertility rate in Niger is the highest in the world at 7.6 children per woman, and the population of the country is projected to increase tenfold in the 21st century to more than 200 million people in 2100.\n\nThe Sahel region as a whole registered a grain surplus of 85,000 tons. However, Niger and Chad suffered grain deficits of around 224,000 and 217,000 tons, respectively. An increase in food prices fuelled the food crisis, especially in Niger, which was the most affected area.\n\nAccess to food staples became increasingly difficult and severe cases of child malnutrition were reported. The scarcity of water and fodder also adversely affected the health of the cattle, camels, sheep and goats that comprise virtually the only source of food and income for nomadic communities. Competition for limited resources also resulted in some local conflicts.\n\nAcute malnutrition rates rose to 13.4 per cent in the southern Niger Maradi and Zinder departments, with 2.5 per cent of this group identified as severely malnourished children under age five, according to UNICEF.\n\nThe food shortage impacted 3.3 million people —including 800,000 children under age five— in 3,815 villages. Officials estimated cereal deficits at 223,448 tons and livestock feed deficits at 4,642,219 tons.\n\nAlthough UN's Food and Agriculture Organization already warned of an upcoming crisis in late 2004, donor support came slowly throughout the first half of 2005. In late August 2005, the profile of the crisis was raised after UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan visited President Tandja Mamadou in Zinder. The visit was seen as an attempt to draw attention to the crisis, and also address accusations that the UN had responded slowly. Donors had given less than half of the US$81 million appealed for by the UN.\n\nOn January 16, 2006, the UN directed an appeal for US$240 million of food aid for West Africa to feed at least 10 million people affected by the food crisis, with Niger being the worst-affected country.\n\nSeveral authorities, including the President of Niger at the time, called into the question the veracity of claims made by international media. They argued that, while chronic malnutrition has been issue for populations of Niger, the media erroneously and deliberately portrayed common local dietary habits as signs of widespread famine to appeal to donors' sympathy.\nOn March 3, 2008 TV2 Norway aired the documentary \"Sultbløffen\" (The Famine Scam) which voiced the view that there was no famine in Niger in 2005-06, but rather chronic malnutrition no different from the previous years. BBC's Hilary Andersson, UN Emergency Relief Coordinator Jan Egeland as well as international media and aid organizations in general were accused of severely overstating and lying about the food situation in the country by misrepresenting the situation. \nThe sources, among them a Norwegian-Swedish foundation of agricultural development and their local assistants, gave a version picturing western media and relief agencies as ignorant towards local agriculture and flora and common dietary habits. They cited so-called \"food-racism\": the perception that local, traditional food and food plants are useless and poisonous, even though locals have eaten them for millennia. They also denounced the perception that the people of Niger are incapable of living without support from the west, and argued that large food donations overwhelmed the local supply, making it harder for local agriculture to compete.\nThe film was awarded 3rd prize in the Monte Carlo TV festival of 2008, and won Den Store Journalistprisen in Norway in 2009. The BBC claimed to have refuted TV2's allegations unequivocally, and attempted to block the international release of the documentary by withdrawing TV2's license to news footage from the summer of 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307288", "title": "The Siege of Rhodes", "text": "The Siege of Rhodes\n\nThe Siege of Rhodes is an opera written to a text by the impresario William Davenant. The score is by five composers, the vocal music by Henry Lawes, Matthew Locke, and Captain Henry Cooke, and the instrumental music by Charles Coleman and George Hudson. It is considered to be the first English opera.\n\nPart 1 of \"The Siege of Rhodes\" was first performed in a small private theatre constructed at Davenant's home, Rutland House, in 1656. Special permission had to be obtained from the Puritan government of Oliver Cromwell, as dramatic performances were outlawed and all public theatres closed. Davenant managed to obtain this by calling the production \"recitative music\", music being still permissible within the law. When published in 1656, it was under the equivocating title \"The siege of Rhodes made a representation by the art of prospective in scenes, and the story sung in recitative musick, at the back part of Rutland-House in the upper end of Aldersgate-Street, London\". The 1659 reprinting gives the location \"at the Cock-pit in Drury Lane\", a well-known theatre frequented by Samuel Pepys after the Restoration (1660). Pepys himself later read the text and commented in his Diary that it was \"certainly (the more I read it the more I think so) the best poem that ever was wrote.\"\n\nThe Rutland House production included England's first professional actress, Mrs Coleman. Part 2 of \"The Siege of Rhodes\" followed in the 1657–1659 season and was first published in 1663.\n\nIn 1661 the piece was rewritten to take advantage of the skills of the young actresses now in Davenant's Company and this revival introduced Hester Davenport as Roxalana.\n\nThe plot was based on the 1522 siege of Rhodes, when the island was besieged by the Ottoman fleet of Suleiman the Magnificent. The score of the opera is believed to be lost. However, the original sketches by John Webb for the stage sets, themselves an innovation of the day, are extant.\n\n"}
{"id": "2307290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307290", "title": "WXTU", "text": "WXTU\n\nWXTU (92.5 FM) is a commercial FM radio station in Philadelphia. Owned by Beasley Broadcast Group, the station broadcasts a country music format. Its studios and offices are located at 1 Bala Plaza on East City Avenue in Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania, while its transmitter is located in the Roxborough section of the city. \n\nWXTU broadcasts in HD; its HD2 sub-channel airs a contemporary country format known as \"Future Country\".\n\nThe first Philadelphia FM station on 92.5 was Westinghouse-owned KYW-FM, the sister station to KYW. In 1942, Westinghouse put the station on the air in the old FM band and in 1948 moved it to 92.5 MHz. The development of FM radio in the post-war years was slow and Westinghouse decided not to continue operating KYW-FM, relinquishing its license in 1955. The 92.5 frequency stayed empty for three years.\n\nIn September 1958, WIFI signed on at 92.5 MHz, owned by Hi-Fidelity Broadcasters Corporation. Although it was always licensed as a Philadelphia station, WIFI in its early years was essentially a local station serving Norristown, Pennsylvania and neighboring communities in Montgomery County. It aired Middle of the Road music and talk along with some specialty music shows and local high school sports. At the end of the 1960s, WIFI brought some of the first \"progressive rock\" or \"underground\" programming to the airwaves with Johnny Devereaux and other hosts. By 1970, WIFI had been acquired by General Cinema Corporation and had dropped local programming, replacing it with a syndicated music service known as \"Hit Parade,\" playing automated adult contemporary music and pre-recorded announcements, with no live disc jockeys needed. WIFI later switched to Hit Parade's companion oldies format, known as \"Solid Gold Rock and Roll\", and also tried other automated programming.\n\nOn January 1st, 1973, WIFI instituted a high-energy Top 40 format known as the Boogie Format with the slogan \"Let's Boogie.\" It was one of the first stand-alone, live FM Top 40 stations in the U.S. John Tenaglia served as Vice President of General Cinema Corp., George Burns as consultant and Steve \"Shotgun\" Kelly as Program Director. The legendary Hy Lit from WIBG was brought on board as the morning drive time personality along with Bill Figenshu (Wild Bill Elliot) middays, Steve \"Shotgun\" Kelly in afternoon drive, Fritz Coleman (Bobby Walker) and John Rivers nights. The Boogie Bug was created from a Volkswagen Bug and then the VW Thing was added along with Boogie book covers for school books and \"Let's Boogie\" billboards all over town. WIFI was the only true Top 40 station in Philadelphia following WFIL's evolution into an Adult Contemporary format in the late 1970s. \n\nWhen WCAU-FM (now WOGL) debuted its Hot Hits format in October 1981, WIFI's ratings fell as WCAU-FM quickly grabbed most of the teen audience. In March of 1983, a move to a new wave/alternative rock format, branded as \"I-92\" and \"Rock of the Eighties,\" attracted press attention but ratings fell to a 0.5 share in the Arbitron Spring 1983 Book.\n\nIn August 1983, the station was sold to Beasley Broadcast Group. The new owners instituted a dance music/rhythmic contemporary format as \"Studio 92,\" with a call sign change to WXTU (reminiscent of New York City's WKTU). That format failed to find an audience and was gone in a matter of months. On March 1, 1984, at 1 p.m., the station switched to its current country format. The first country song on WXTU was \"Are You Ready For The Country\" by Waylon Jennings.\n\nIn 2007, the station was nominated for the Radio & Records Magazine \"Country Music Station of The Year Award\" for the top 25 markets. Other nominees included WUSN Chicago, KYGO-FM Denver, WYCD Detroit, KEEY-FM Minneapolis, and KSON-FM San Diego.\n\nOn October 2, 2014, Beasley Broadcast Group announced that it would trade WXTU and four other radio stations in Miami and Philadelphia to CBS Radio in exchange for 14 CBS stations located in Tampa and Charlotte, with one station in Philadelphia, AM 610 (now WTEL), going to Beasley. (AM 610 was traded because keeping it would have put CBS over the FCC limit for stations in one media market.) The swap was completed on December 1, 2014.\n\nOn February 2, 2017, CBS Radio announced it would merge with Entercom. The merger was approved on November 9, 2017, and was consummated on the 17th.\n\nOn July 19, 2018, Entercom announced that it would sell WXTU back to Beasley for $38 million as part of its purchase of WBEB. The sale closed September 28, 2018.\n\nCMA Awards\n\n\nACM Awards\n\n\nIndustry Achievement Awards\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307291", "title": "Massanutten Mountain", "text": "Massanutten Mountain\n\nMassanutten Mountain is a synclinal ridge in the Ridge-and-Valley Appalachians, located in the U.S. state of Virginia. It is near the West Virginia state line.\nThe mountain bisects the Shenandoah Valley just east of Strasburg in Shenandoah County in the north, to its highest peak east of Harrisonburg in Rockingham County in the south.\n\nThe mountain is divided into northern and southern sections, divided by the New Market Gap. The northern section consists of 3 roughly parallel ridges, forming 2 valleys. The wider, main valley, is called Fort Valley, while the smaller one is known as Little Fort Valley. The ridges of the northern section converge at New Market Gap. The southern section consists of a series of closely gathered ridges, separated by precipitous creek gorges.\n\nOn the eastern side of the mountain range lie the Page Valley and the Blue Ridge Mountains. On the western side lie the North-Central Shenandoah Valley and the Great North Mountain of the Alleghany Mountains.\n\nMost of the range is part of the Lee Ranger District of the George Washington National Forest and contains the Elizabeth Furnace and Camp Roosevelt recreational areas. The Potomac Appalachian Trail Club maintains the Massanutten Trail as well as several other hiking trails in the forest. Signal Knob, a former Civil War signal station on the northern peak of the mountain, is a popular destination. The forest service also maintains several ATV trails.\n\nIn 1971, the Massanutten Mountain ski lodge and four-season resort village was established near the southern peak. The private resort has nearly doubled in size since Great Eastern Resorts bought it in 1995. \n\nWildlife on Massanutten includes black bear, coyotes, wild turkeys, white-tailed deer, timber rattlesnake, and luna moths. Significant flora includes mayapple, bluets, wild lupine, cardinal flower, and pinxter flower.\n\nThe geology of the Massanutten Mountains is dominated by Silurian Massanutten Sandstone, a lateral equivalent of the Tuscarora Formation in the Appalachian Mountains to the west, overlying the Ordovician Martinsburg Formation. Erosion of the Martinsburg shale in some areas of the mountain caused the sandstone to break and slide to form talus slopes. The Massanutten Sandstone is folded in a synclinorium, and it outcrops at the ridge tops.\n\n"}
{"id": "2307293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307293", "title": "Timeline of Portuguese history (First County)", "text": "Timeline of Portuguese history (First County)\n\nThis is a historical timeline of Portugal.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307295", "title": "SIMBAD", "text": "SIMBAD\n\nSIMBAD (the Set of Identifications, Measurements and Bibliography for Astronomical Data) is an astronomical database of objects beyond the Solar System. It is maintained by the Centre de données astronomiques de Strasbourg (CDS), France.\n\nSIMBAD was created by merging the Catalog of Stellar Identifications (CSI) and the Bibliographic Star Index as they existed at the Meudon Computer Centre until 1979, and then expanded by additional source data from other catalogues and the academic literature. The first on-line interactive version, known as Version 2, was made available in 1981. Version 3, developed in the C language and running on UNIX stations at the Strasbourg Observatory, was released in 1990. Fall of 2006 saw the release of Version 4 of the database, now stored in PostgreSQL, and the supporting software, now written entirely in Java.\n\n, SIMBAD contains information for 10,877,663 objects under 35,541,598 different names, with 364,732 bibliographical references and 20,489,110 bibliographic citations.\n\nThe minor planet 4692 SIMBAD was named in its honour.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307304", "title": "Jakob Frohschammer", "text": "Jakob Frohschammer\n\nJakob Frohschammer (6 January 1821 – 14 June 1893) was a German theologian and philosopher.\n\nFrohschammer was born at Illkofen, which is now in the municipality of Barbing, near Regensburg. Destined by his parents for the Roman Catholic priesthood, he studied theology at Munich, but felt an ever-growing attraction to philosophy. Nevertheless, after much hesitation, he took what he himself calls the most mistaken step of his life, and in 1847 entered the priesthood. His keenly logical intellect, and his impatience of authority where it clashed with his own convictions, quite unfitted him for that unquestioning obedience which the Church demanded. It was only after open defiance of Valentin Riedel, the bishop of Regensburg, that he obtained permission to continue his studies at Munich.\n\nHe died at Bad Kreuth in the Bavarian Highlands on 14 June 1893.\n\nHe at first devoted himself more especially to the study of the history of dogma, and in 1850 published his \"Beitraege zur Kirchengeschichte\", which was placed on the Index Expurgatorius. But he felt that his real vocation was philosophy, and after holding for a short time an extraordinary professorship of theology, he became professor of philosophy in 1855. This appointment he owed chiefly to his work, \"Ueber den Ursprung der menschlichen Seelen\" (1854), in which he maintained that the human soul was not implanted by a special creative act in each case, but was the result of a secondary creative act on the part of the parents: that soul as well as body, therefore, was subject to the laws of heredity. This was supplemented in 1855 by the controversial \"Menschenseele und Physiologie\" (\"Physiology and the Soul of Man\").\n\nUndeterred by the offence which these work gave to his ecclesiastical superiors, he published in 1858 the \"Einleitung in die Philosophie und Grundriss der Metaphysik\" in which he assailed the doctrine of Thomas Aquinas that philosophy was the handmaid of theology. In 1861 appeared \"Ueber die Aufgabe der Naturphilosophie und ihr Verhaltnis zu Naturwissenschaft\", which was, he declared, directed against the purely mechanical conception of the universe, and affirmed the necessity of a creative power. In the same year he published \"Ueber die Freiheit der Wissenschaft\", in which he maintained the independence of science, whose goal was truth, against authority and reproached the excessive respect for the latter in the Roman Church with the insignificant part played by the German Catholic in literature and philosophy.\n\nHe was denounced by the pope himself in an apostolic brief of 11 December 1862 and students of theology were forbidden to attend his lectures. Public opinion was now keenly excited; he received an ovation from the Munich students, and the king, to whom he owed his appointment, supported him warmly. A conference of Catholic savants, held in 1863 under the presidency of Döllinger, decided that authority must be supreme in the Church. When, however, Döllinger and his school in their turn started the Old Catholic movement, Frohschammer refused to associate himself with their cause, holding that they did not go far enough, and that their declaration of 1863 had cut the ground from under their feet.\n\nMeanwhile, he had, in 1862, founded the Athenum as the organ of Liberal Catholicism. For this he wrote the first adequate account in German of the Darwinian theory of natural selection, which drew a warm letter of appreciation from Darwin himself. Excommunicated in 1871, he replied with three articles, which were reproduced in thousands as pamphlets in the chief European languages: \"Der Fels Petri in Rom\" (1873), \"Der Primat Petri und des Papstes\" (1875), and \"Das Christenthum Christi und das Christenthum des Papstes\" (1876).\n\nIn \"Das neue Wissen und der neue Glaube\" (1873) he showed himself as vigorous and opponent of the materialism of David Strauss as of the doctrine of papal infallibility. His later years were occupied with a series of philosophical works, of which the most important were: \"Die Phantasie als Grundprincip des Welt processes\" (1877), \"Ueber die Genesis der Menschheit und deren geistige Entwicklung in Religion, Sittlichkeit und Sprache\" (1883), and \"Ueber die Organisation und Cultur der menschlichen Gesellschaft\" (1885). His system is based on the unifying principle of imagination (Phantasie), which he extends to the objective creative force of Nature, as well as to the subjective mental phenomena to which the term is usually confined.\n\nIn addition to other treatises on theological subjects, Frohschammer was also the author of \"Monaden und Weltphantasie\" and \"Ueber die Bedeutung der Einbildungskraft in der Philosophie Kants und Spinozas\" (1879); \"Ueber die Principien der Aristotelischen Philosophie und die Bedeutung der Phantasie in der selben\" (1881); \"Die Philosophie als Idealwissenschaft und System\" (1884); \"Die Philosophie des Thomas von Aquino kritisch gewürdigt\" (1889); \"Ueber das Mysterium Magnum des Daseins\" (1891); \"System der Philosophie im Umriss, pt. i.\" (1892). His autobiography was published in A. Hinrichsen's \"Deutsche Denker\" (1888).\n"}
{"id": "2307305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307305", "title": "Timeline of Portuguese history (Second County)", "text": "Timeline of Portuguese history (Second County)\n\nThis is a historical timeline of Portugal.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307309", "title": "Crupper", "text": "Crupper\n\nA crupper (; occ. spelled crouper) is a piece of tack used on horses and other equids to keep a saddle, harness or other equipment from sliding forward.\n\nThe crupper consists of a loop (the crupper itself) and an adjustable strap (crupper strap or back strap) that connects the crupper to back of a riding saddle or the other parts of a harness. The strap runs from the horse's dock, over the croup, to the saddle or to the back band (sometimes called the saddle) of a harness. \n\nUsually made of leather, the crupper loop is stuffed, traditionally with linseed to keep it supple in use, and molded into a tube that is shaped into a loop. The crupper may be sewn to its strap, or attached to the strap by one or two buckles. If the crupper has no buckle, then the skirt of the horse's tail is folded up onto the tailbone and the tailbone is slipped through the crupper. If it has buckles, the crupper is unbuckled and passed under the dock.\n\nA crupper is used to keep the equipment placed on a horse's back from slipping forward. Cruppers are seen most often on horse harnesses. They are also used on the surcingles of bitting rigs, riding saddles, and, occasionally, pack saddles.\n\nA crupper needs to be snug enough to keep the saddle or harness in place, but not so tight that the horse is irritated or the skin of the tail is damaged. Cruppers are adjusted to engage only when needed; pressure is not meant to be constantly applied. If a crupper is too tight, it can cause severe chafing, discomfort and sores. If it is too loose, the saddle or harness may not stay in the proper position. If used in an improper manner for too long a period of time, the horse may even become disabled in the hindquarters. The loop of a crupper is kept very clean.\n\nFor driving, a crupper is used to prevent the parts of a harness that fit around the barrel of the horse (the girth, bellyband, back band and saddle) from slipping forward. The crupper is adjusted to allow about an inch of play between the crupper and the dock. Some harnesses with breeching use this as an anchor instead of a crupper.\n\nA crupper is used on riding saddles when riding a horse or mule with low withers in steep terrain. Cruppers are most often used in activities such as endurance riding, mounted orienteering, competitive trail riding, and for recreational trail riding in mountains. \n\nWhen riding, cruppers are particularly useful on animals with low withers, because this conformation allows the saddle to slip forward as the animal travels downhill. Though not a substitute for a correctly fitted saddle, they are often used on mules, as many saddles, particularly those made for horses, are more likely to slide forward on a flatter-backed mule.\n\nThe crupper strap may be single or double (forked). It usually attaches via a snap or buckle to a crupper ring at the center of the cantle of the saddle, or to a pair of rings (dees) on either side of the cantle. Many riding saddles today are manufactured without properly placed rings, though rings can be added. Or, in lieu of rings, a design used on English saddles utilizes a t-shaped brace that is inserted under the saddle between the rear panels and the tree.\n\nCruppers are not common on western saddles, but some English saddles are designed with crupper rings, particularly those designed to fit mules.\n\nCruppers are seen on the saddles of some horses used to work cattle with a lance (such as horses of the buttero in Europe), but not on horses used to work cattle with a lasso.\n\nOn pack horses, saddle breeching alone is quite common. However, sometimes a crupper is used in addition to breeching.\n\nA crupper has been a standard part of mule saddles for centuries. In the 1614 spurious Avellaneda \"Segunda Parte\" to Don Quixote, a mule crupper is mentioned several times, and it is translated as \"crupper\" in two 18th-century English translations.\n\nCruppers were once part of the standard design of cavalry saddles. The McClellan saddle used by the United States Army utilized an optional crupper into the early 20th century. though difficulties with proper fitting eventually led the army to discontinue its use. Cruppers continue to be part of the ceremonial tack for some cavalry regiments and tent pegging teams.\n"}
{"id": "2307311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307311", "title": "Timeline of Portuguese history (First Dynasty)", "text": "Timeline of Portuguese history (First Dynasty)\n\nThis is a historical timeline of Portugal.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307312", "title": "Connie Russell", "text": "Connie Russell\n\nConnie Russell (May 9, 1923 – December 18, 1990) was an American singer and movie actress. Born in New York City, she appeared in seven films from the 1930s through the 1950s. She was far better known as a singer than as an actress, as her singing career was quite extensive.\n\nRussell was the daughter of Tommy and Nina Russell, a vaudeville team. Her grandparents were also entertainers, performing as Glenroy and Russell. She attended Lawrence High School in Cedarhurst, Long Island, and the Professional Children's School in New York City.\n\nWhile she was still a teenager, Russell performed at venues such as the Starlight Club at New York's Waldorf-Astoria, the 500 Club in Atlantic City, New Jersey, the Famous Door, and the Paramount Theater in New York City. In late December, 1952, she appeared, along with Danny Thomas, Lou Wills, Jr., and Ray Sinatra and his orchestra, at the opening night gala of the Copa Room at the Sands Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas.\n\nBy the time she was 16, Russell had signed a contract with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. Her film debut came in \"Cruisin' Down the River\" (1953). (Another source says that her \"first socko movie appearance was in \"Lady Be Good\"\" in 1941.) She played a lead role in the 1956 movie \"Nightmare\".\n\nOn radio, Russell was the featured female singer on \"Let Yourself Go\" on CBS (1944-1945). She also appeared frequently on the syndicated \"Naval Air Reserve Show\". In 1947, she became a network staff singer on NBC, joining \"Manor House Summer Party\" for an eight-week stint as the program's featured singer.\n\nOn television, she was a regular singer on \"Club Embassy\", \"Garroway at Large\" (1949-1951) and on \"The Buick-Berle Show\" on NBC (1953-1955). She also had success on Eddie Cantor's TV program when he liked her so well in a guest appearance that he signed her to a contract.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307316", "title": "National-anarchism", "text": "National-anarchism\n\nNational-anarchism is an anti-capitalist, anti-Marxist, anti-statist third positionist ideology. National-anarchists advocate a post-capitalist stateless society in which homogeneous communities of different ethnic or racial groups would be free to develop separately in their own tribal communes, named \"national autonomous zones\", that are politically meritocratic, economically mutualistic, ecologically sustainable, and socially and culturally traditional.\n\nAlthough the term \"national-anarchism\" dates back as far as the 1920s, the contemporary national-anarchist movement has been put forward since the late 1990s by British political activist Troy Southgate, who positions it as being \"beyond left and right\". The few scholars who have studied national-anarchism conclude that it represents a further evolution in the thinking of the radical right rather than an entirely new dimension on the political spectrum. \n\nNational-anarchism has elicited skepticism and outright hostility from both left-wing and far-right critics. The former accuse national-anarchists of being nothing more than white nationalists who promote a communalist form of ethnic and racial separatism, while the latter argue they want the militant chic of calling themselves \"anarchists\" without the historical and philosophical baggage that accompanies such a claim.\n\nThe term \"national-anarchist\" dates back as far as the 1920s, when Helmut Franke, a German conservative revolutionary writer, used it to describe his political stance. However, it would be the writings of other members of the conservative revolutionary movement, such as Ernst Jünger, which would later provide the philosophical foundation of the contemporary national-anarchist movement.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, Troy Southgate, a former member of the British far-right National Front and founder of the International Third Position, began to move away from Strasserism and Catholic distributism towards post-left anarchism and the primitivist green anarchism articulated in Richard Hunt's 1997 book \"To End Poverty: The Starvation of the Periphery by the Core\". However, he fused his anarchist ideology with the radical traditionalism of Italian esotericist Julius Evola and the ethnopluralism and pan-European nationalism of French new right philosopher Alain de Benoist to create a newer form of national-anarchism.\n\nIn 1998, inspired by the concepts of the political soldier and leaderless resistance, Southgate formed the National Revolutionary Faction (NRF) as a clandestine cell system of professional revolutionaries conspiring to overthrow the British state. The NRF stressed this was a \"highly militant strategy\" and advised that some members may only fund the organization. Southgate claims that the NRF took part in anti-vivisection protests in August 2000 alongside hunt saboteurs and the Animal Liberation Front by following a strategy of entryism, but its only known public action under the national-anarchist name was to hold an anarchist heretics fair in October 2000 in which a number of fringe groups participated. However, after a coalition of green anarchists and anti-fascists blocked three further events from being held in 2001 Southgate and the NRF abandoned this strategy and retreated to purely disseminating their ideas in Internet forums. The NRF had long been aware of the bridging power of the Internet which provided it with a reach and influence hitherto not available to the groupuscular right. Thus, it became part of the Euro-American radical right, a virtual community of European and American right-wing extremists seeking to establish a new pan-national and ethnoreligious identity for all people they believe belong to the \"Aryan race\". Southgate disbanded the NRF in 2003.\n\nShortly after, Southgate and other NRF associates became involved with \"Synthesis\", the online journal of a forum called \"Cercle de la Rose Noire\", which sought a fusion of anarchism, occultism and metapolitics with the contemporary concerns of the ecological and global justice movements. Thus, through the medium of musical subcultures (black metal and neofolk music scenes) and the creation of permanent autonomous zones for neo-völkisch communes they hope to disseminate their subversive ideas throughout society in order to achieve cultural hegemony.\n\nThe national-anarchist idea has spread around the world over the Internet, assisted by groups such as the Thule-Seminar which set up web sites in the 1990s. In the United States, only a few web sites have been established, but there has been a trend towards a steady increase. National-anarchism in the United States began as a relatively obscure movement made up of probably fewer than 200 individuals led by Andrew Yeoman of the Bay Area National Anarchists (BANA) based in the San Francisco Bay Area and a couple of other groups in Northern California and Idaho. Organizations based on national-anarchist ideology have gained a foothold in Russia and have been accused of sowing turmoil in the environmental movement in Germany. There are adherents in England, Spain and Australia, among other nations.\n\nOn 8 September 2007 in Sydney, Australia, the anti-globalization movement mobilized against neoliberal economic policies by opposing the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit. During the street protests, national-anarchists infiltrated the left-anarchist black bloc, but the police had to protect them from being expelled by irate activists. Since then, national-anarchists have joined other marches in Australia and in the United States. In April 2008, they protested on behalf of the Tibetan independence movement against the Chinese government during the Olympic torch relay in both Canberra, Australia and San Francisco. National-anarchists in the United States are carefully studying the successes and failures of their more prominent international counterparts as they attempt to similarly win converts from the radical environmentalist and white nationalist movements in the United States.\n\nOn May Day 2010, BANA participated in the Golden Gate Minutemen's march in front of San Francisco City Hall in support of Arizona's anti-illegal immigration senate bill. The march took place during International Workers' Day demonstrations as an attempt to counter mass protest against the bill in San Francisco's Mission District. Local news media reported that Yeoman and four other national-anarchists were physically assaulted by about 10 protesters as they left the march.\n\nThe conservative revolutionary concept of the anarch, as articulated by German philosopher Ernst Jünger, is central to national-anarchism. National-anarchists stress that the \"artificial nationalism\" of the nation-State, which they oppose, must be distinguished from the \"natural nationalism\" of the people (\"\"volk\"\"), which they believe, in its more consistent expressions is a legitimate rejection of both foreign domination (imperialism) and internal domination (statism). National-anarchists see modernity, liberalism, materialism, consumerism, immigration, multiracialism, multiculturalism and globalization as the primary causes of the social decline of nations and cultural identity. They propose a strategic and ideological alliance of ethnic and racial nationalists and separatists around the world (especially in the Global South), neo-Eurasianists in Russia, Islamists in Muslim-majority countries and anti-Zionists everywhere to resist the New World Order—globalization viewed as an instrument of Jewish-dominated international banking and American imperialism—that is inevitably leading to global economic collapse and ecological collapse.\n\nNational-anarchism echoes most anarchist schools of thought by expressing a desire to reorganize human relationships, with an emphasis on replacing the hierarchical structures of the state and capitalism with local community decision-making. However, national-anarchists stress the restoration of the \"Natural Order\" and aim towards a decentralized social order where each new tribe builds and maintains a permanent autonomous zone for a self-sufficient commune, which is politically meritocratic, economically mutualistic, ecologically sustainable, and socially and culturally traditional.\n\nAsserting the right to difference, national-anarchists publicly advocate a model of society in which communities that wish to practice racial, ethnic, religious and/or sexual separatism are able to peacefully coexist alongside mixed or integrated communities without requiring force. They claim that \"national autonomous zones\" (NAZs) could exist with their own rules for permanent residence without the strict ethnic divisions and violence advocated by other forms of \"blood and soil\" ethnic nationalism. Some leading national-anarchists, however, have stated in the past that they originally conceived the idea of establishing whites-only NAZs, which have seceded from the state's economy, — no-go areas for unwelcomed ethnic groups and state authorities — as an insurrectionary strategy to foment civil disorder and racial tensions as an essential prelude to racial civil war and the collapse of the capitalist system.\n\nIn terms of cultural and religious views, many national-anarchists are influenced by the radical traditionalism and spiritual racism of Julius Evola, who calls for a \"revolt against the modern world\". Thus, they have a pessimistic vision of modern Western culture yet optimistically believe that the \"decline of the West\" will pave the way for its materialism to be expunged and replaced by the idealism of primordial tradition. Although some national-anarchists adhere to a form of Identity Christianity, most reject Christianity because they believe it to be a Semitic religion that usurped the \"Aryan\" legacy of Mithraism as the historically dominant religion and moral system of the West. They therefore embrace a spiritual anarchism based on different forms of neopaganism, occultism and ethnic mysticism, especially Nordic racial paganism, which they view as genuine expressions of Western spirituality, culture and identity that can also serve as an antidote to the socially alienating effects of consumer culture. National-anarchists hold racial separatism and cultural revitalization through the establishment of confederations of autonomous neo-völkisch communes as the ultimate barrier against globalized racial mixing and cultural homogenization.\n\nFor its part, the National Anarchist Movement founded by Southgate states on its website:\n\nAmerican panarchist Keith Preston, a fellow traveller of the national-anarchist movement who promotes anarcho-pluralism, argues that national-anarchism and classical American ideals of Jeffersonian democracy are reconcilable, despite the anti-Americanism of European national-anarchists and the patriotism of American paleoconservatives, because of their common values, namely regionalism, localism, agrarianism and traditionalism.\n\nIn 2003, Roger Griffin, in his essay \"From slime mould to rhizome: an introduction to the groupuscular right\", argued that national-anarchism is a segment of the groupuscular right which has evolved towards a \"mazeway resynthesis\" between \"classic fascism, third positionism, neo-anarchism and new types of anti-systemic politics born of the anti-globalization movement\", whose main ideological innovation is a stateless palingenetic ultranationalism.\n\nGraham D. Macklin, writing in the journal \"Patterns of Prejudice\" in 2005, says that the conservative revolutionary concept of the anarch allowed national-anarchism's adherents to claim to have transcended left-right spectrum. According to Macklin, this shift was likely just a strategic move to allow fascists to expand their influence. Macklin argues that far-right groupuscules retain some principles which he calls core fascist values (namely palingenesis, ultranationalism, anti-liberal and anti-Marxist Third Positionism, and violent direct action).\n\nIn his 2005 book \"The Radical Right in Britain: Social Imperialism to the BNP\", Alan Sykes argued that national-anarchism represents a further evolution in the thinking of the radical right rather than an entirely new dimension, a response to the new situation of the late 20th century in which the apparent triumph of materialist capitalism on a global scale requires a greater assertion of the centrality of anti-materialist nationalism.\n\nNational-anarchism has critics on both the left and right of the political spectrum as they both look upon their politics with skepticism if not outright hostility mainly because of the multifaceted threat they conclude it represents.\n\nLeft-wing critics assert that national-anarchism is a \"Trojan horse for white nationalism\" and represents what many anti-fascists see as the potential new face of fascism. They argue that it is a form of crypto-fascism which hopes to avoid the stigma of classic fascism by appropriating symbols, slogans and stances of the left-wing anarchist movement while engaging in entryism to inject some core fascist values into the anti-globalization and environmental movements. They further argue that national-anarchists hope to draw members away from traditional white nationalist groups to their own synthesis of ideas which they claim are \"neither left nor right\". These critics warn that the danger national-anarchists represent is not in their marginal political strength, but in their potential to show an innovative way that neo-fascist groups can rebrand themselves and reset their project on a new footing in order to preempt the radical left as the main revolutionary opposition force. Even if the results are modest, this can disrupt left-wing social movements and their focus on egalitarianism and social justice, instead spreading separatist ideas based on naturalistic fallacy, racism, antisemitism, heterosexism and antifeminism amongst grassroots activists.\n\nSome far-right critics argue that neo-Nazis joining the national-anarchist movement will lead to them losing credit for the successes of their anti-Zionist struggle if it is co-opted by left-wing anarchists. They further argue that national-anarchists want the militant chic of calling themselves \"anarchists\" without the historical and philosophical baggage that accompanies such a claim, namely the link with 19th-century Jewish anarchists.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307318", "title": "Timeline of Portuguese history (Second Dynasty)", "text": "Timeline of Portuguese history (Second Dynasty)\n\nThis is a historical timeline of Portugal.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307320", "title": "Unkulunkulu", "text": "Unkulunkulu\n\nUnkulunkulu (/uɲɠulun'ɠulu/) (isiZulu: the very good looking/handsome) is the Supreme Creator in the language of the Zulu people. \n\nIn classical, pre-colonial Zulu myth, Unkulunkulu brought human beings and cattle from an area of reeds. He created everything, from land and water to man and the animals. He is considered the first man as well as the parent of all Zulu. He taught the Zulu how to hunt, how to make fire, and how to grow food.\n\nWith the arrival of Christian missionaries, Unkulunkulu became the name for the Christian supreme being. For Christian people, the name simply means \"God\". Other names include \"uMdali\" \"Creator\", \"uMvelinqandi\" \"Before everything\", analogous to \"Umvelinqangi\" in the isiXhosa language.\n\n"}
{"id": "2307322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307322", "title": "Timeline of Portuguese history (Third Dynasty)", "text": "Timeline of Portuguese history (Third Dynasty)\n\nThis is a historical timeline of Portugal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307325", "title": "Gaudiya Math", "text": "Gaudiya Math\n\nThe Gaudiya Math (pronounced \"matt\", IAST: \"Gauḍīya Maṭha\") is a Gaudiya Vaishnava matha (monastic organisation) formed on 6 September 1920, about 30 months after Bhaktisiddhanta Sarasvati took \"sannyasa\", the renounced order of life. On 7 March 1918, the same day he took \"sannyasa,\" he established the Sri Chaitanya Math in Mayapura in West Bengal, later recognised as the parent body of all the Gaudiya Math branches. Its purpose was to spread Gaudiya Vaishnavism, the philosophy of the medieval Vaisnava saint Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, through preaching and publishing.\n\nFrom the beginning of Chaitanya's \"bhakti\" movement in Bengal, devotees, including Haridasa Thakur and others, whether Muslim or Hindu by birth, have been participants. This openness and disregard for the traditional caste system received a boost from the \"broad-minded vision\" of Bhaktivinoda Thakura, a nineteenth-century magistrate and prolific writer on \"bhakti\" topics, and was institutionalised by his son and successor Bhaktisiddhanta Sarasvati Thakura in the twentieth-century Gaudiya Math.\n\nThe Gaudiya Math had established 64 branches. Most were in India, but preaching centres were maintained for a time in Burma, England and Germany. The first European preaching center was established in London in 1933 (London Glouster House, Cornwall Garden, W7 South Kensington) under the name Gaudiya Mission Society of London'. Lord Zetland, the English Secretary of State, was the president of this society.\nThe second European preaching center was opened by Swami B.H. Bon Maharaj in Berlin (W30 Eisenacherstr. 29).\n\nSoon after the Srila Bhaktisiddhanta Saraswati's death (1 January 1937), a dispute began and the original Gaudiya Math mission divided into two administrative bodies which continued preaching on their own, up to the present day. In a settlement they divided the 64 Gaudiya Math centers into two groups. Sri Chaitanya Math Branch were headed by Srila Bhakti Vilasa Tirtha Maharaj. Gaudiya Mission were headed by Ananta Vasudev Prabhu, who became known as Srila Bhakti Prasad Puri Maharaj after accepting sannyasa for short duration.\n\nMany of the disciples of Bhaktisiddhanta Sarasvati did not agree with the spirit of these newly created two fractions, or were simply inspired to expand the mission of their guru on their own enthusiasm, started their own missions. Many of these autonomous missions are still known as Gaudiya Math. Some of the other new missions are:\n\n\nSome are very large missions, and some are smaller branches started by individual Vaisnavas. What they hold in common is that they are autonomous branches of the tree of the Gaudiya Math. Almost all of them have published books and periodicals and opened one or more temples.\n"}
{"id": "2307327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307327", "title": "Timeline of Portuguese history (Fourth Dynasty)", "text": "Timeline of Portuguese history (Fourth Dynasty)\n\nThis is a historical timeline of Portugal.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307329", "title": "Timeline of Portuguese history (First Republic)", "text": "Timeline of Portuguese history (First Republic)\n\nThis is a historical timeline of Portugal.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307331", "title": "Timeline of Portuguese history (Second Republic)", "text": "Timeline of Portuguese history (Second Republic)\n\nThis is a historical timeline of Portugal.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307333", "title": "Timeline of Portuguese history (Third Republic)", "text": "Timeline of Portuguese history (Third Republic)\n\nThis is a historical timeline of Portugal.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMarch 4, Hintze Ribeiro bridge disaster: 70 people died in the collapse of an old bridge on the Douro river. Hours after the accident, Jorge Coelho, Minister of Transportation, resigns.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307338", "title": "Virtual displacement", "text": "Virtual displacement\n\nIn analytical mechanics, a branch of applied mathematics and physics, a virtual displacement δr \"is an assumed infinitesimal change of system coordinates occurring while time is held constant. It is called virtual rather than real since no actual displacement can take place without the passage of time.\" Also, virtual displacements are spatial displacements exclusively - time is fixed while they occur. When computing virtual differentials of quantities that are functions of space and time coordinates, no dependence on time is considered (formally equivalent to saying \"δt\" = 0).\n\nIn modern terminology virtual displacement is a tangent vector to the manifold representing the constraints at a fixed time. Unlike regular displacement which arises from differentiating with respect to time parameter \"t\" along the path of the motion (thus pointing in the direction of the motion), virtual displacement arises from differentiating with respect to the parameter \"ε\" enumerating paths of the motion varied in a manner consistent with the constraints (thus pointing at a fixed time in the direction tangent to the constraining manifold). The symbol \"δ\" is traditionally used to denote the corresponding derivative \n\nHere we consider the total differential of any set of system position vectors, r, that are functions of other variables \n\nand time \"t\". These position vectors are \"on-shell\" meaning they satisfy the Euler-Lagrange equations and solve for the true evolution trajectories of the system.\nIn other words, these vectors move according to the constraint forces and actual forces of the system at every instant in time. The actual displacement is the differential of the on-shell solution:\n\nNow, imagine if we have an arbitrary path through the configuration space/manifold. This means it has to satisfy the constraints of the system but not the actual applied forces.\nWe can think of that as the off-shell differential:\n\nThis equation is used in Lagrangian mechanics to relate generalized coordinates, \"q\", to virtual work, \"δW\", and generalized forces, \"Q\".\n\nIn the two degree-of-freedom example on the right, the actual displacement is the true trajectory of the particle moving on the two-dimensional surface. The virtual displacement is any tangent vector to the surface.\n\nIn analytical mechanics the concept of a virtual displacement, related to the concept of virtual work, is meaningful only when discussing a physical system subject to constraints on its motion. A special case of an infinitesimal displacement (usually notated dr), a virtual displacement (denoted δr) refers to an infinitesimal change in the position coordinates of a system such that the constraints remain satisfied .\n\nFor example, if a bead is constrained to move on a hoop, its position may be represented by the position coordinate \"θ\", which gives the angle at which the bead is situated. Say that the bead is at the top. Moving the bead straight upwards from its height \"z\" to a height \"z\" + \"dz\" would represent one possible infinitesimal displacement, but would violate the constraint. The only possible virtual displacement would be a displacement from the bead's position, \"θ\" to a new position \"θ\" + \"δθ\" (where \"δθ\" could be positive or negative).\n\n"}
{"id": "2307340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307340", "title": "Mbaba Mwana Waresa", "text": "Mbaba Mwana Waresa\n\nMbaba Mwana Waresa is a fertility goddess of the Zulu religion of Southern Africa. She rules over rainbows, agriculture, harvests, rain, and beer and has power over water and earth. She taught Her people how to sow and reap and also taught them the art of making beer. It is this act that has made Her one of the more revered goddesses of the Zulu people.\n\nMbaba Mwana Waresa lived in the clouds, in a round hut made of rainbow arches. Her people loved this rain goddess, and whenever they heard the telltale sound of Her thunder drum, they knew that She would be pouring much-needed waters from Her heavenly home. She is the daughter of the sky god Umvelinqangi.\n\nShe is able to shapeshift Her appearance to that of an animal, hence Her other name, \"Nomkhubulwane\", which means \"She who chooses the state of an animal.\n\nAccording to legend, She was unable to find a suitable husband in the heavens, so She scoured the lands of South Africa in search of a mortal husband, and then defied all of the other gods when She fell in love with a mortal man. In order to make sure he loved Her, She tested him by sending a beautiful bride in Her place while She disguised herself as an ugly hag. Her earthly lover was not fooled and recognized her immediately. They married and to this day, they live in her rainbow covered house in the sky.\n\nThe Zulu call on Her when they need guidance to make an important decision.\n"}
{"id": "2307344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307344", "title": "Hemmingsmarks IF", "text": "Hemmingsmarks IF\n\nHemmingsmarks IF is a Swedish football club located in Hemmingsmark in Piteå Municipality outside Piteå.\n\nSince their foundation Hemmingsmarks IF has participated in the middle and lower divisions of the Swedish football league system. The club currently plays in Division 5 Norrbotten Södra which is the seventh tier of Swedish football. In 2005, they reached Division 2 Norrland, but their stay was short-lived as they were relegated at the end of the season. HIF play their home matches at the Hifton in Hemmingsmark.\n\nThe club are affiliated to the Norrbottens Fotbollförbund. Norrbottens FF demoted Hemmingsmarks IF to Division 5 for the 2011 season as HIF are a feeder club to Infjärdens SK and are not permitted to play in the same division as their elite club. This unfortunate situation arose as ISK were relegated to Division 4 Norrbotten Södra at the end of the 2010 season.\n\nIn recent seasons Hemmingsmarks IF have had the following average attendances:\n\n"}
{"id": "2307353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307353", "title": "Kodak Fortress", "text": "Kodak Fortress\n\nKodak fortress (; ) was a fort built in 1635 by the order of the Polish king Władysław IV Vasa and the Sejm on the Dnieper River near what would become the town of Stari Kodaky (now near the city of Dnipro in Ukraine. In 1711 according to the Treaty of the Pruth the fortress was destroyed by the Muscovites.\n\nIt was constructed by Stanisław Koniecpolski to control Cossacks of the Zaporizhian Sich, to prevent Ukrainian peasants from joining forces with the Cossacks and to guard the southeastern corner of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. The Poles tried to establish order in that area, and commissioned French military cartographer and engineer William le Vasseur de Beauplan to construct the fort. Building cost around 100,000 Polish zlotys. The dragoon garrison was commanded by the French officer Jean de Marion.\n\nShortly after construction was completed in July 1635, in the Sulima Uprising, the Cossack forces of Ivan Sulima captured the fortress in a surprise attack on the night of August 11/12, 1635. The Cossacks killed the entire German mercenary garrison (numbering 200 men) and demolished the fortress.\n\nThe Poles hired the German engineer Friedrich Getkant and rebuilt Kodak, three times larger, in 1639. The fortress contained a Catholic church with monastery and an Orthodox church. Its garrison increased to 600, with artillery support. About two miles outside of the fortress was erected a huge guard tower. The governor of that fortress became Jan Zoltowski while its commandant became Adam Koniecpolski (a nephew of Stanisław).\n\nDuring the Khmelnytsky Uprising of 1648, Krzysztof Lada-Grodzicki commanded the fortress. It surrendered to the Cossacks on October 1, 1648, after a 7-month siege, upon hearing the news of Polish defeat at the Battle of Pyliavtsi on September 23, 1648. Rank and file defenders were massacred or drowned in the river after they had left Kodak upon capitulation. The Cossacks sold the Kodak commander and some other officers to the Tatars as slaves.\n\nAfter the Treaty of Pereyaslav in 1654, Kodak fortress was manned by the Cossacks. Peter I of Russia razed it in accordance with the terms of the Treaty of the Pruth with the Ottoman Empire in 1711.\n\nThe Soviet government attempted to destroy the remnants of fortress in order to eradicate traces of Polish influence on Ukraine by establishing a quarry on the site in 1944. The quarry closed in 1994, but by then two thirds of fortress was completely destroyed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307355", "title": "École supérieure de commerce de Pau", "text": "École supérieure de commerce de Pau\n\nThe École Supérieure de Commerce de Pau (or ESC Pau) is a French business school created in 1970.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307358", "title": "Nation Records", "text": "Nation Records\n\nNation Records is a record label set up by Kath Canoville and Aki Nawaz in 1988.\n\nThe label was set up after major labels declined to release their fusion of world music and dance music, an album called \"Fuse\" (1989). Featuring the earliest appearance by Talvin Singh as Mahatma T, the label went on to feature the early releases of Asian Dub Foundation, Transglobal Underground, Fun-Da-Mental, Loop Guru, Hustlers HC, Natacha Atlas, Joi, Swami, TJ Rehmi and Charged.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307365", "title": "Kate Gulbrandsen", "text": "Kate Gulbrandsen\n\nKate Gulbrandsen (born 6 August 1965 in Slemmestad) is a Norwegian singer. In 1986 she represented Norway at the Yamaha Song Festival in Tokyo with the song \"Carnival\". She won the Norwegian national final Melodi Grand Prix 1987 in a very close regional vote, giving her the opportunity to compete for Norway at the Eurovision Song Contest 1987 with the song \"Mitt liv\" (My Life), written by Rolf Løvland and Hanne Krogh. There, in Brussels, she came a respectable ninth.\n\nGulbrandsen tried to represent Norway again in 1989, singing \"Nærhet\" (Closeness) at the Melodi Grand Prix, although was unplaced. The song was rerecorded by Gulbrandsen in 1991, with a slightly different arrangement.\n\nHer version of Jørn Hansen's \"Med gullet for øyet\" was the official song of the 1998 Winter Paralympics in Nagano, Japan.\n\nIn 2004, after more than ten years away from the Norwegian popular music scene, Kate made a musical comeback in country style with two new tracks reaching Norsktoppen, Norway's main pop chart. These included a new version of the Dolly Parton hit \"Jolene\", which was included on her 2005 album release \"Vi to\" (We Two). Kate's \"Jolene\" spent 11 weeks in Norsktoppen, and was cited as the 8th most popular song of Norsktoppen in 2004.\n\nToday she lives in Hokksund with her daughter Sandra. She is still remembered well as one of Norway's former Eurovision singers, and appeared in the audience at one of the semifinals for the 2009 Melodi Grand Prix contest in Norway, where a tribute to her 1987 participation was shown.\n\n"}
{"id": "2307377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307377", "title": "Phillip Alford", "text": "Phillip Alford\n\nPhillip Alford (born September 11, 1948) is a former American actor best known for his role as Jem Finch in the 1962 film \"To Kill a Mockingbird\".\n\nAlford appeared in three productions with Birmingham's Town and Gown Civic Theatre, whose director called up Alford's mother to see if her son was interested in auditioning for the part of Jem in \"To Kill a Mockingbird\". Initially Alford had refused, but agreed to audition under the condition that he would miss half a day of school. As one of the three finalists, he was called to New York City for a screen test several weeks later and won the role of Jem Finch.\n\nDuring the filming, his parents drove to Hollywood to be with him, and his sister became the stand-in actress for Mary Badham, who played Jem's sister, Scout, in the film. He and Badham were constantly bickering and at odds with each other during most of the shoot; at one time after their worst argument, he had planned mischief against her.\n\nAlford's other acting credits include: \"Bristle Face\" (1964) (TV); the role of \"Boy\" in the Jimmy Stewart classic \"Shenandoah\" (1965); \"The Intruders\" (1970) (TV); and \"Fair Play\" (1972) (TV).\n\nPhillip Alford is currently a successful businessman in Grenada, Mississippi and stays out of the limelight. He followed his father into the construction business. Alford is married and has two children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307383", "title": "Kiruna FF", "text": "Kiruna FF\n\nKiruna FF is a Swedish football club located in Kiruna. The men's team competes in Division 3 Norra Norrland, in the fifth level of the Swedish football league system. The women's team competes in div 2, in the fourth level.\n\nKiruna FF/BoIS was formed on 21 December 1970, when \"Kiruna AIF\", \"IFK Kiruna\", \"Kebne IK\" and \"Kiruna BK\" merged into one club. Since 2009 the club has been called Kiruna FF. The Men's team plays in Division 3 Norra Norrland and the Ladies team in Division 1. Kiruna FF is Sweden's northernmost football club.\n\nThe 1991 season was the most successful in the history of the club when Kiruna FF progressed from the Division 1 Norra \"(Spring competition)\" to compete in the Division 1 Kvalsvenskan \"(Autumn competition)\" which was the highest level of second tier Swedish football. In contrast since 2009 the club have been playing in the fifth tier in Division 3 Norra Norrland following their relegation from Division 2 Norrland in 2008.\n\nThanks to their concerted efforts the club has trained a number of committed and well-trained youth leaders over the years. A key objective is to foster long-term prospective first-team players in accordance with the club's Corporate Plan. Two players from KFF that now compete in the Allsvenskan and Damallsvenskan are Jonas Lantto(Gefle IF) and Selina Henriksson (Umeå IK).\n\nThe club won the Midnattsolscupen (Midnight Sun Cup) in 1985, 1996, 1997, 2002, 2005 and 2008.\n\nThe club is affiliated to Norrbottens Fotbollförbund.\n\nIn recent seasons Kiruna FF have had the following average attendances:\n\n\"As of 27 April 2010.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307391", "title": "Friedrich von Logau", "text": "Friedrich von Logau\n\nFriedrich von Logau (January 1605 – 24 July 1655) was a German poet and epigrammatist of the Baroque era.\n\nHe was born the son of Georg von Logau, estate owner in Brockut near Nimptsch in Silesia (present-day Niemcza, Poland). His father died in the year of his birth. From 1614 to 1625 Logau was educated at the renowned gymnasium school in Brieg, benefitted by Duke John Christian, and subsequently studied law at the University of Altdorf near Nuremberg.\n\nFinishing his studies two years later, he administered his family estates from 1633, but had to flee to the ducal court in Brieg from approaching troops under Albrecht von Wallenstein shortly afterwards. As his family's estates were devastated, he finally entered the service of Duke Louis IV of Brieg as a low-paid ducal councillor in 1644. In July 1648 he was admitted to the Fruitbearing Society (\"Fruchtbringende Gesellschaft\") under the name \"Der Verkleinernde\" (literally \"the diminishing one\") by Prince Louis I of Anhalt-Köthen. Logau regarded himself as a follower of Martin Opitz; but he did not allow such ties to influence his independence or originality. In 1653 he followed Duke Louis IV to the court of Liegnitz.\n\nLogau was married twice; his beloved first wife died in 1640; the second marriage remained unhappy. He died at the age of 50 in Liegnitz, where he is buried in the St John parish church. His son Balthasar Friedrich was elevated to the noble rank of a \"Freiherr\" (Baron) in 1687.\n\nLogau's epigrams, which appeared in two collections under the pseudonym Salomon von Golaw (an anagram of his real name, referring to Gohlau and the \"Proverbs of Solomon\") in 1638 (\"Erstes Hundert Teutscher Reimensprũche\") and 1654 (\"Deutscher Sinngedichte drei Tausend\"), show a marvellous range and variety of expression. He had suffered bitterly under the adverse conditions of the time; but his satire is not merely the outcome of personal feeling. In the turbulent age of the Thirty Years' War he was one of the few men who preserved intact his intellectual integrity and judged his contemporaries fairly. He satirized with unsparing hand the court life, the useless bloodshed of the war, the lack of national pride in the German people, and their slavish imitation of the French in customs, dress and speech.\n\nLogau's \"Sinngedichte\" were rediscovered and edited in 1759 by Gotthold Ephraim Lessing and Karl Wilhelm Ramler, who first drew attention to their merits; a second edition appeared in 1791. A critical edition was published in 1872 by G. Eitner, who also edited a selection of Logau's epigrams for the \"Deutsche Dichter des XVII. Jahrhunderts\" (vol. iii, 1870); there is also a selection by F.L. Oesterley in \"Kũrschners Deutsche Nationalliteratur\", vol. xxviii. (1885). See H. Denker, \"Beitrage zur literarischen Würdigung Logaus\" (1889); W. Heuschkel, \"Untersuchungen über Ramlers and Lessings Bearbeitung Logauscher Sinngedichte\" (1901).\n\n NB: The German barock epigrammatist Friedrich von Logau was not \"Freiherr\" or \"Baron\" a single day of his life! See: \"Seelbach, Karl-Ulrich\". Friedrich von Logau: Biographischer Abriss // \"Althaus, Thomas und Seelbach, Sabine\" (eds.). Salomo in Schlesien. Beiträge zum 400. Geburtstag Friedrich von Logaus (1605—2005). Amsterdam, New York: Rodopi B.V., 2006. (= CHLOE. Beihefte zum Daphnis. Bd. 39). S. 489—490.\n"}
{"id": "2307394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307394", "title": "Steve Braun (actor)", "text": "Steve Braun (actor)\n\nSteve Braun (born August 14, 1976) is a Canadian television and movie actor from Winnipeg, Manitoba. Braun's credits include \"The Immortal\", a TV show in which he and co-star Lorenzo Lamas hunted demons; \"The Trip\", an independent film about coming of age in the HIV era; and \"Harold & Kumar Go to White Castle\" (2004), a major motion picture release in which he plays a tiny role as an unknown villain. In addition he starred as Brian Kelly in the 2004 thriller \"The Skulls III\". He also played the role of \"Jonesy\" in the 2007 thriller movie \"\". He also co-starred in the 2005 horror movie \"Pterodactyl\" as Willis Bradbury.\n\nBraun was cast in a recurring guest role in The WB show \"Twins\", as Jordan, the unrequited love interest of Mitchee Arnold, played by Sara Gilbert. The series, which debuted on September 16, 2005, was cancelled in May, 2006.\n\nBraun went to a school in Winnipeg, Canada and graduated as a boy. Smart kid this Steve Braun.\n"}
