{"id": "2314027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314027", "title": "Religion in Albania", "text": "Religion in Albania\n\nThe most-commonly practised religion in Albania is Islam (mainly Sunni or Bektashi), the second-most-commonly practiced religion is Christianity (mainly Catholic, Orthodox and Protestant), however there are also many irreligious people.\n\nAlbania is constitutionally a secular state since 1967, and as such, \"neutral in questions of belief and conscience\": The former Communist government declared Albania as the world's first and only \"Atheist state\". Believers faced harsh punishments, and many clergymen were killed. Religious observance and practice is generally lax today, and polls have shown that, compared to the populations of other countries, few Albanians consider religion to be a dominant factor in their lives. When asked about religion, people refer to their family's historical religious legacy and not to their own choice of faith. Being a secular country today, people are free to choose to believe or not, and to change their faith. Religion is separated from the public sphere and citizens show strong support for secularism.\n\nChristianity spread to urban centers in the region of Albania, at the time composed mostly Epirus Nova and part of south Illyricum, during the later period of Roman invasion and reached the region relatively early. St. Paul preached the Gospel 'even unto Illyricum' (Romans 15:19). Schnabel asserts that Paul probably preached in Shkodra and Durrës. The steady growth of the Christian community in Dyrrhachium (the Roman name for Epidamnus) led to the creation of a local bishopric in 58 AD. Later, episcopal seats were established in Apollonia, Buthrotum (modern Butrint), and Scodra (modern Shkodra).\n\nOne notable Martyr was Saint Astius, who was Bishop of Dyrrachium, who was crucified during the persecution of Christians by the Roman Emperor Trajan. Saint Eleutherius (not to be confused with the later Saint-Pope) was bishop of Messina and Illyria. He was martyred along with his mother Anthia during the anti-Christian campaign of Hadrian.\n\nFrom the 2nd to the 4th centuries, the main language used to spread the Christian religion was Latin, whereas in the 4th to the 5th centuries it was Greek in Epirus and Macedonia and Latin in Praevalitana and Dardania. Christianity spread to the region during the 4th century. The following centuries saw the erection of characteristic examples of Byzantine architecture such as the churches in Kosine, Mborje and Apollonia.\n\nChristian bishops from what would later become eastern Albania took part in the First Council of Nicaea. Arianism had at that point extended to Illyria, where Arius himself had been exiled to by Constantine.\n\nSince the early 4th century AD, Christianity had become the established religion in the Roman Empire, supplanting pagan polytheism and eclipsing for the most part the humanistic world outlook and institutions inherited from the Greek and Roman civilizations. Ecclesiastical records during the Slavic invasions are slim. Though the country was in the fold of Byzantium, Christians in the region remained under the jurisdiction of the Roman pope until 732. In that year the iconoclast Byzantine emperor Leo III, angered by archbishops of the region because they had supported Rome in the Iconoclastic Controversy, detached the church of the province from the Roman pope and placed it under the patriarch of Constantinople. When the Christian church split in 1054 between the East and Rome, southern Albanian regions retained their ties to Constantinople while the northern areas reverted to the jurisdiction of Rome.\nThe Albanians first appear in the historical record in Byzantine sources of the 11th century. At this point, they are already fully Christianized. Most Albanian regions belonged to the Eastern Orthodox Church after the schism, but regional Albanian populations gradually became Catholic to secure their independence from various Orthodox political entities and conversions to Catholicism would be especially notable under the aegis of the Kingdom of Albania. Flirtations with conversions to Catholicism in Central Albanian Principality of Arbanon are reported in the later 12th century, but until 1204 Central and Southern Albanians (in \"Epirus Nova\") remained mostly Orthodox despite the growing Catholic influence in the North and were often linked to Byzantine and Bulgarian state entities Krujë, however, became an important center for the spread of Catholicism. Its bishopric had been Catholic since 1167. It was under direct dependence from the pope and it was the pope himself who consecrated the bishop. Local Albanian nobles maintained good relations with the Papacy. Its influence became so great, that it began to nominate local bishops. The Archbishopric of Durrës, one of the primary bishoprics in Albania had initially remained under the authority of Eastern Church after the split despite continuous, but fruitless efforts from the Roman church to convert it to the Latin rite.\n\nHowever, things changed after the fall of Byzantine Empire in 1204. In 1208, a Catholic archdeacon was elected for the archbishopric of Durrës. After the reconquest of Durrës by the Despotate of Epirus in 1214, the Latin Archbishop of Durrës was replaced by an Orthodox archbishop. According to Etleva Lala, on the edge of the Albanian line in the north was Prizren, which was also an Orthodox bishopric albeit with some Catholic parochial churches, in 1372 received a Catholic bishop due to close relations between the Balsha family and the Papacy.\n\nAfter the Fourth Crusade, a new wave of Catholic dioceses, churches and monasteries were founded, a number of different religious orders began spreading into the country, and papal missionaries traversed its territories. Those who were not Catholic in Central and North Albania converted and a great number of Albanian clerics and monks were present in the Dalmatian Catholic institutions. The creation of the Kingdom of Albania in 1272, with links to and influence from Western Europe, meant that a decidedly Catholic political structure had emerged, facilitating the further spread of Catholicism in the Balkans. Durrës became again a Catholic archbishopric in 1272. Other territories of the Kingdom of Albania became Catholic centers as well. Butrint in the south, although dependent on Corfu, became Catholic and remained as such during the 14th century. The bishopric of Vlore also converted immediately following the founding of the Kingdom of Albania. Around 30 Catholic churches and monasteries were built during the rule of Helen of Anjou, as Queen consort of the Serbian Kingdom, in North Albania and in Serbia. New bishoprics were created especially in North Albania, with the help of Helen. As Catholic power in the Balkans expanded with Albania as a stronghold, Catholic structures began appearing as far afield as Skopje (which was a mostly Serbian Orthodoxy city at the time) in 1326, with the election of the local bishop there being presided upon by the Pope himself; in the following year, 1327, Skopje sees a Dominican appointed.\n\nHowever, in Durrës the Byzantine rite continued to exist for a while after Angevin conquest. This double-line of authority created some confusion in the local population and a contemporary visitor of the country described Albanians as \"nor they are entirely Catholic or entirely schismatic\". In order to fight this religious ambiguity, in 1304, Dominicans were ordered by Pope Benedict XI to enter the country and to instruct the locals in the Latin rite. Dominican priests were also ordered as bishops in Vlorë and Butrint.\nIn 1332 a Dominican priest reported that within the Kingdom of Rascia (Serbia) there were two Catholic peoples, the \"Latins\" and the \"Albanians\", who both had their own language. The former was limited to coastal towns while the latter was spread out over the countryside, and while the language of the Albanians was noted as quite different from Latin, both peoples are noted as writing with Latin letters. The author, an anonymous Dominican priest, writing in favor of a Western Catholic military action to expel Orthodox Serbia from areas of Albania it controlled in order to restore the power of the Catholic church there, argued that the Albanians and Latin and their clerics were suffering under the \"extremely dire bondage of their odious Slav leaders whom they detest\" and would eagerly support an expedition of \" one thousand French knights and five or six thousand foot soldiers\" who, with, their help, could throw off the rule of Rascia.\n\nAlthough Serbian rulers at earlier times had at times relations with the Catholic West despite being Orthodox, as a counterbalance to Byzanitne power, and therefore tolerated the spread of Catholicism in their lands, under the reign of Stephan Dushan the Catholics were persecuted, as were also Orthodox bishops loyal to Constantinople. The Catholic rite was called \"Latin heresy\" and, angered in part by marriages of Serbian Orthodox with \"half-believers\" and the Catholic proselytization of Serbians, Dushan's code, the \"Zakonik\" contained harsh measures against them. However, the persecutions of local Catholics did not begin in 1349 when the Code was declared in Skopje, but much earlier, at least since the beginning of the 14th century. Under these circumstances the relations between local Catholic Albanians and the papal curia became very close, while the previously friendly relations between local Catholics and Serbians deteriorated significantly.\n\nBetween 1350 and 1370, the spread of Catholicism in Albania reached its peak. At that period there were around seventeen Catholic bishoprics in the country, which acted not only as centers for Catholic reform within Albania, but also as centers for missionary activity in the neighboring areas, with the permission of the pope. At the end of the 14th century, the previously Orthodox Autocephalous Archbishopric of Ohrid was dismantled in favor of the Catholic rite.\n\nChristianity was later overshadowed by Islam, which became the predominant religion during the invasion from the Ottoman Empire from the 15th century until the year 1912. Many Albanians embraced Islam in different ways.\n\nAlbania differs from other regions in the Balkans in that the peak of Islamization in Albania occurred much later: 16th century Ottoman census data showed that sanjaks where Albanians lived remained overwhelmingly Christian with Muslims making up no more than 5% in most areas (Ohrid 1.9%, Shkodra 4.5%, Elbasan 5.5%, Vlora 1.8%, Dukagjin 0%) while during this period Muslims had already risen to large proportions in Bosnia (Bosnia 46%, Herzegovina 43%, urban Sarajevo 100%), Northern Greece (Trikala 17.5%), Macedonia (Skopje and Bitola both at 75%) and Eastern Bulgaria (Silistra 72%, Chirmen 88%, Nikopol 22%). Later on, in the 19th century, when the process of Islamization had halted in most of the Balkans and some Balkan Christian peoples like Greeks and Serbs had already claimed independence, Islamization continued to make significant progress in Albania, especially in the South.\n\nAs a rule, Ottoman rule largely tolerated Christian subjects but it also discriminated against them, turning them into second-class citizens with much higher taxes and various legal restrictions like being unable to take Muslims to court, have horses, have weapons, or have houses overlooking those of Muslims. While Catholicism was chronically held in suspicion by Ottoman authorities, after the conquest of Constantinople, the Ottomans largely allowed the Orthodox church to function unhindered, except during periods when the church was considered politically suspect and thus suppressed with expulsions of bishops and seizure of property and revenues. Conversion during Ottoman times was variously due to calculated attempts to improve social and economic status, due to the successful proselytizing by missionaries, or done out of desperation in very difficult times; in the latter case, the converts often practiced crypto-Christianity for long periods. During the Ottoman period, most Christians as well as most Muslims employed a degree of syncretism, still practicing various pagan rites; many of these rites are best preserved among mystical orders like the Bektashi.\n\nUnlike some other areas of the Balkans, such as Bulgaria and Bosnia, for the first couple centuries of Ottoman rule, up until the 1500s, Islam remained confined to members of the co-opted aristocracy and a couple scattered military settlements of Yuruks from Anatolia, while the native Albanian peasantry remained overwhelmingly Christian. Even long after the fall of Skanderbeg, large regions of the Albanian countryside frequently rebelled against Ottoman rule, often incurring large human costs, including the decimation of whole villages. In the 1570s, a concerted effort by Ottoman rulers to convert the native population to Islam in order to stop the occurrence of seasonal rebellions began in Elbasan and Reka. In 1594, the Pope incited a failed rebellion among Catholic Albanians in the North, promising help from Spain. However the assistance did not come, and when the rebellion was crushed in 1596, Ottoman repression and heavy pressures to convert to Islam were implemented to punish the rebels.\n\nBetween 1500 and 1800, impressive ecclesiastical art flourished across Southern Albania. In Moscopole there were over 23 churches during the city's period of prosperity in the mid 18th century. Post-Byzantine architectural style is prevalent in the region, e.g. in Vithkuq, Labove, Mesopotam, Dropull.\n\nRamadan Marmullaku noted that, in the 1600s, the Ottomans organized a concerted campaign of Islamization that was not typically applied elsewhere in the Balkans, in order to ensure the loyalty of the rebellious Albanian population. Although there were certain instances of violently forced conversion, usually this was achieved through debatably coercive economic incentives – in particular, the head tax on Christians was drastically increased. While the tax levied on Albanian Christians in the 1500s amounted to about 45 akçes, in the mid-1600s, it was 780 akçes. Conversion to Islam here was also aided by the dire state of the Catholic church in the period— in the entirety of Albania, there were only 130 Catholic priests, many of these poorly educated. During this period, many Christian Albanians fled into the mountains to found new villages like Theth, or to other countries where they contributed to the emergence of Arvanites, Arbëreshë, and Arbanasi communities in Greece, Italy, and Croatia. While in the first decade of the 17th century, Central and Northern Albania remained firmly Catholic (according to Vatican reports, Muslims were no more than 10% in Northern Albania), by the middle of the 17th century, 30–50% of Northern Albania had converted to Islam, while by 1634 most of Kosovo had also converted. During this time, the Venetian Republic helped to prevent the wholesale Islamisation of Albania, maintaining a hold on parts of the north near the coast.\n\nThis period also saw the emergence of Albanian literature, written by Christians such as Pjetër Bogdani. Some of these Christian Albanian thinkers, like Bogdani himself, ultimately advocated for an Albania outside of Ottoman control, and at the end of the 17th century, Bogdani and his colleague Raspasani, raised an army of thousands of Kosovar Albanians in support of the Austrians in the Great Turkish War. However, when this effort failed to expel Ottoman rule from the area yet again, many of Kosovo's Catholics fled to Hungary.\n\nIn 1700, the Papacy passed to Pope Clement XI, who was himself of Albanian-Italian origins and held great interest in the welfare of his Catholic Albanian kinsmen, known for composing the Illyricum sacrum. In 1703 he convened the Albanian Council (\"Kuvendi i Arbënit\") in order to organize methods to prevent further apostacy in Albania, and preserve the existence of Catholicism in the land. The widespread survival of Catholicism in northern Albania is largely attributable to the activity of the Franciscan order in the area\n\nIn addition to Catholicism and Sunni Islam, there were pockets of Orthodox (some of whom had converted from Catholicism) in Kavajë, Durrës, Upper Reka and some other regions, while Bektashis became established in Kruja, Luma, Bulqiza, Tetova, and Gjakova. Especially in the tribal regions of the North, religious differences were often mitigated by common cultural and tribal characteristics, as well as knowledge of family lineages connecting Albanian Christians and Albanian Muslims. In the 17th century, although many of the rebellions of the century were at least in part motivated by Christian sentiment, it was noted that many Albanian Muslims also took part, and that, despising Ottoman rule no less than their Christian brethren, Albanian Muslims would revolt eagerly if only given the slightest assistance from the Catholic West.\n\nIn the late 17th and 18th centuries, especially after numerous rebellions including during the Great Turkish War and subsequent clashes with Orthodox Russia, Ottoman rulers also made concerted efforts to convert the Orthodox Albanians of Southern and Central Albania (as well as neighboring regions of Greece and Macedonia). Like in the North, conversion was achieved through a diverse motley of violent, coercive and non-coercive means, but raised taxes were the main factor. Nevertheless, there were specific local cases: in Vlora and the surrounding region, the Christians converted en masse once the area was recaptured from the Christian forces in 1590, because they feared violent retribution for their collaboration. In Labëri, meanwhile, mass conversion took place during a famine in which the bishop of Himara and Delvina was said to have forbidden the people from breaking the fast and consuming milk under threat of interminable hell. Across Orthodox regions of Albania, conversion was also helped by the presence of heresies like Arianism and the fact that much of the Orthodox clergy was illiterate, corrupt, and conducted sermons in Greek, a foreign language, as well as the poverty of the Orthodox church. The clergy, largely from the Bosphorus, was distant from its Albanian flocks and also corrupt as well, abusing church tax collection and exacting a heavy tax regime that aggregated on top of punitive taxes imposed directly by the Ottoman state on the rebellious Albanian Christian population aimed at sparking their conversion.\n\nOrthodox areas further north, such as those around Elbasan, were first to convert, during the 1700s, passing through a stage of Crypto-Christianity although in these regions scattered Orthodox holdouts remained (such as around Berat, in Zavalina, and the quite large region of Myzeqe including Fier and Lushnjë) as well as continuing Crypto-Christianity around the region of Shpati among others, where Crypto-Christians formally reverted to Orthodoxy in 1897. Further south, progress was slower. The region of Gjirokastra did not become majority Muslim until around 1875, and even then most Muslims were concentrated in the city of Gjirokastra itself. The same trajectory was true of Albanians in Chamëria, with the majority of Cham Albanians remaining Orthodox until around 1875— at which point Ottoman rule in the Balkans was already collapsing and many Christian Balkan states had already claimed independence (Greece, Serbia, Romania).\n\nAt the end of the Ottoman period, Sunni Islam held a slight majority (or plurality) in the Albanian territories. Catholicism still prevailed in the Northwestern regions surrounding Lezha and Shkodra, as well as a few pockets in Kosovo in and around Gjakova, Peja, Vitina, Prizren and Klina. Orthodoxy remained prevalent in various pockets of Southern and Central Albania (Myzeqeja, Zavalina, Shpati as well as large parts of what are now the counties of Vlora, Gjirokastra and Korca). The syncretic Bektashi sect, meanwhile, gained adherence across large parts of the South, especially Skrapari and Dishnica where it is the overwhelming majority. This four-way division of Albanians between Sunnis (who became either a plurality or a majority), Orthodox, Bektashis and Catholics, with the later emergence of Albanian Uniates, Protestants and atheists, prevented Albanian nationalism as it emerged from tying itself to any particular faith, instead promoting harmony between the different confessions and using the shared Albanian language, Albanian history and Albanian ethnic customs as unifying themes. Despite this, Bektashi tekkes in the South and Catholic churches in the North were both used by the nationalist movement as places of dissemination of nationalist ideals.\n\nDuring the 20th century after Independence (1912) the democratic, monarchic and later the totalitarian regimes followed a systematic dereligionization of the nation and the national culture. Albania never had an official state religion either as a republic or as a kingdom after its restoration in 1912. Religious tolerance in Albania was born of national expediency and a general lack of religious convictions.\n\nOriginally under the monarchy, institutions of all confessions were put under state control. In 1923, following the government program, the Albanian Muslim congress convened at Tirana decided to break with the Caliphate, established a new form of prayer (standing, instead of the traditional salah ritual), banished polygamy and did away with the mandatory use of veil (hijab) by women in public, which had been forced on the urban population by the Ottomans during the occupation.\n\nIn 1929 the Albanian Orthodox Church was declared autocephalous.\n\nA year later, in 1930, the first official religious census was carried out. Reiterating conventional Ottoman data from a century earlier which previously covered double the new state's territory and population, 50% of the population was grouped as Sunni Muslim, 20% as Orthodox Christian, 20% as Bektashi Muslim and 10% as Catholic Christian.\n\nThe monarchy was determined that religion should no longer be a foreign-oriented master dividing the Albanians, but a nationalized servant uniting them. It was at this time that newspaper editorials began to disparage the almost universal adoption of Muslim and Christian names, suggesting instead that children be given neutral Albanian names.\n\nOfficial slogans began to appear everywhere. \"Religion separates, patriotism unites.\" \"We are no longer Muslim, Orthodox, Catholic, we are all Albanians.\" \"Our religion is Albanism.\" The national hymn characterized neither Muhammad nor Jesus Christ, but King Zogu as \"Shpëtimtari i Atdheut\" (Savior of the Fatherland). The hymn to the flag honored the soldier dying for his country as a \"Saint.\" Increasingly the mosque and the church were expected to function as servants of the state, the patriotic clergy of all faiths preaching the gospel of Albanism.\n\nMonarchy stipulated that the state should be neutral, with no official religion and that the free exercise of religion should be extended to all faiths. Neither in government nor in the school system should favor be shown to any one faith over another. Albanism was substituted for religion, and officials and schoolteachers were called \"apostles\" and \"missionaries.\" Albania's sacred symbols were no longer the cross and the crescent, but the Flag and the King. Hymns idealizing the nation, Skanderbeg, war heroes, the king and the flag predominated in public-school music classes to the exclusion of virtually every other theme.\n\nThe first reading lesson in elementary schools introduced a patriotic catechism beginning with this sentence, \"I am an Albanian. My country is Albania.\" Then there follows in poetic form, \"But man himself, what does he love in life?\" \"He loves his country.\" \"Where does he live with hope? Where does he want to die?\" \"In his country.\" \"Where may he be happy, and live with honor?\" \"In Albania.\"\n\nOn 7 April 1939, Albania was invaded by Italy under Benito Mussolini, which had long taken an interest in gaining dominance over Albania as an Italian sphere of influence during the interwar period. The Italians attempted to win the sympathies of the Muslim Albanian population by proposing to build a large mosque in Rome, though the Vatican opposed this measure and nothing came of it in the end. The Italian occupiers also won Muslim Albanian sympathies by causing their working wages to rise. Mussolini's son-in-law Count Ciano also replaced the leadership of the Sunni Muslim community, which had recognized the Italian regime in Albania, with clergy that aligned with Italian interests, with a compliant \"Moslem Committee\" organization, and Fischer notes that \"the Moslem community at large accepted this change with little complaint\". Most of the Bektashi order and its leadership were against the Italian occupation and remained an opposition group. Fischer suspects that the Italians eventually tired of the opposition of the Bektashi Order, and had its head, Nijaz Deda, murdered.\n\nThe Albanian Orthodox hierarchy also acquiesced in the occupation, according to Fischer. The primate of the church, Archbishop Kisi, along with three other bishops, expressed formal approval of the Italian invasion in 1939. Metropolitan Visarion Xhuvani was part of the delegation which carried the Albanian throne to Victor Emanuel III in Rome.\n\nThe Catholic Church and many Catholics were supportive of the invasion, but Fischer states there were many exceptions, particularly of among the village priests since most of them were trained in Albania and were quite nationalistic. Some of them even left Albania after the Italian invasion. But the hierarchy on the other hand was quite supportive, with the apostolic delegate seeing it as a possibility to give more freedom to Albanians who wanted to become Catholic. The Catholic Church had also the most financial support per member during the Italian occupation.\n\nBefore the Communists took power in 1944, it was estimated that of Albania's population of roughly 1,180,500 persons, about 70% belonged to Islamic sects while 30% belonged to Christian sects. Among the Muslims, at least 200,000 (or 17%) were Bektashis, while most of the rest were Sunnis, in addition to a collection of much smaller orders. Among the Christians, 212,500 (18%) were Orthodox while 142,000 (12%) were Catholic.\n\nThe Agrarian Reform Law of August 1946 nationalized most property of religious institutions, including the estates of monasteries, orders, and dioceses. Many clergy and believers were tried, tortured, and executed. All foreign Roman Catholic priests, monks, and nuns were expelled in 1946.\n\nReligious communities or branches that had their headquarters outside the country, such as the Jesuit and Franciscan orders, were henceforth ordered to terminate their activities in Albania. Religious institutions were forbidden to have anything to do with the education of the young, because that had been made the exclusive province of the state. All religious communities were prohibited from owning real estate and from operating philanthropic and welfare institutions and hospitals.\nAlthough there were tactical variations in First Secretary of the Communist Party Enver Hoxha's approach to each of the major denominations, his overarching objective was the eventual destruction of all organized religion in Albania. Between 1945 and 1953, the number of priests was reduced drastically and the number of Roman Catholic churches was decreased from 253 to 100, and all Catholics were stigmatized as fascists.\n\nThe campaign against religion peaked in the 1960s. Beginning in 1967 the Albanian authorities began a violent campaign to try to eliminate religious life in Albania. Despite complaints, even by Party of Labour of Albania members, all churches, mosques, tekkes, monasteries, and other religious institutions were either closed down or converted into warehouses, gymnasiums, or workshops by the end of 1967. By May 1967, religious institutions had been forced to relinquish all 2,169 churches, mosques, cloisters, and shrines in Albania, many of which were converted into cultural centres for young people. As the literary monthly Nendori reported the event, the youth had thus \"created the first atheist nation in the world.\"\n\nThe clergy were publicly vilified and humiliated, their vestments taken and desecrated. More than 200 clerics of various faiths were imprisoned, others were forced to seek work in either industry or agriculture, and some were executed or starved to death. The monastery of the Franciscan order in Shkodër was set on fire, which resulted in the death of four elderly monks.\n\nA major center for anti-religious propaganda was the National Museum of Atheism () in Shkodër, the city viewed by the government as the most religiously conservative.\n\nArticle 37 of the Albanian Constitution of 1976 stipulated, \"The State recognises no religion, and supports atheistic propaganda in order to implant a scientific materialistic world outlook in the people\", and the penal code of 1977 imposed prison sentences of three to ten years for \"religious propaganda and the production, distribution, or storage of religious literature.\" A new decree that in effect targeted Albanians with Islamic and religiously-tinged Christian names stipulated that citizens whose names did not conform to \"the political, ideological, or moral standards of the state\" were to change them. It was also decreed that towns and villages with religious names must be renamed. Hoxha's brutal antireligious campaign succeeded in eradicating formal worship, but some Albanians continued to practice their faith clandestinely, risking severe punishment. Individuals caught with Bibles, icons, or other religious objects faced long prison sentences. Religious weddings were prohibited. Parents were afraid to pass on their faith, for fear that their children would tell others. Officials tried to entrap practicing Christians and Muslims during religious fasts, such as Lent and Ramadan, by distributing dairy products and other forbidden foods in school and at work, and then publicly denouncing those who refused the food, and clergy who conducted secret services were incarcerated.\n\nThe article was interpreted as violating The United Nations Charter (chapter 9, article 55) which declares that religious freedom is an inalienable human right. The first time that the question of religious oppression in Albania came before the United Nations' Commission on Human Rights at Geneva was as late as 7 March 1983. A delegation from Denmark got its protest over Albania's violation of religious liberty placed on the agenda of the thirty-ninth meeting of the commission, item 25, reading, \"Implementation of the Declaration on the Elimination of all Forms of Intolerance and of Discrimination based on Religion or Belief.\" There was little consequence at first, but on 20 July 1984 a member of the Danish Parliament inserted an article in one of Denmark's major newspapers protesting the violation of religious freedom in Albania.\n\nAfter the death of Enver Hoxha in 1985, his successor, Ramiz Alia, adopted a relatively tolerant stance toward religious practice, referring to it as \"a personal and family matter.\" Émigré clergymen were permitted to reenter the country in 1988 and officiate at religious services. Mother Teresa, an ethnic Albanian, visited Tirana in 1989, where she was received by the foreign minister and by Hoxha's widow. In December 1990, the ban on religious observance was officially lifted, in time to allow thousands of Christians to attend Christmas services.\n\nThe atheistic campaign had significant results especially to the Greek minority, since religion which was now criminalized was traditionally an integral part of its cultural life and identity.\n\nIslam was first introduced to Albania in the 15th century after the Ottoman conquest of the area. It is the largest religion in the country, representing 58.70% of the population according to the 2011 census. One of the major legacies of nearly five centuries of Ottoman rule was that the majority of Albanians, had converted to Islam. Therefore, the nation emerged as a Muslim-majority country after Albania's independence in November 1912.\n\nIn the North, the spread of Islam was slower due to the resistance of the Roman Catholic Church and the region's mountainous terrain. In the center and south, however, Catholicism was not as strong and by the end of the 17th century the region had largely adopted the religion of the growing Albanian Muslim elite. The existence of an Albanian Muslim class of pashas and beys who played an increasingly important role in Ottoman political and economic life became an attractive career option for most Albanians. Widespread illiteracy and the absence of educated clergy also played roles in the spread of Islam, especially in northern Albanian-inhabited regions. During the 17th and 18th centuries Albanians converted to Islam in large numbers, often under sociopolitical duress experienced as repercussions for rebelling and for supporting the Catholic powers of Venice and Austria and Orthodox Russia in their wars against the Ottomans.\nIn the 20th century, the power of Muslim, Catholic and Orthodox clergy was weakened during the years of monarchy and it was eradicated during the 1940s and 1950s, under the state policy of obliterating all organized religion from Albanian territories.\n\nDuring the Ottoman invasion the Muslims of Albania were divided into two main communities: those associated with Sunni Islam and those associated with Bektashi Shiism, a mystical Dervish order that came to Albania through the Albanian Janissaries that served in the Ottoman army and whose members practiced Albanian pagan rites under a nominal Islamic cover. After the Bektashis were banned in Turkey in 1925 by Atatürk, the order moved its headquarters to Tirana and the Albanian government subsequently recognized it as a body independent from Sunnism. Sunni Muslims were estimated to represent approximately 50% of the country's population before 1939, while Bektashi represented another 20%. There is also a relatively small minority which belongs to the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community. Muslim populations have been particularly strong in eastern and northern Albania and among Albanians living in Kosovo and Macedonia.\n\nSunni Muslims have historically lived in the cities of Albania, while Bektashis mainly live in remote areas, whereas Orthodox Christians mainly live in the south, and Roman Catholics mainly live in the north of the country. However, this division does not apply nowadays. In a study by Pew Research, 65% of Albanian Muslims did not specify a branch of Islam that they belonged to. The Albanian census doesn't differentiate between Bektashis and Sunnis, but instead between Bektashis and \"Muslims\", but since Bektashis are in fact Muslim many were listed as Muslims. Bektashi-majority areas include Skrapari, Dishnica, Erseka and Bulqiza while Bektashis also have large, possibly majority concentrations in Kruja, Mallakastra, Tepelena, large pockets of the Gjirokastër and Delvina Districts (i.e. Gjirokastër itself, Lazarat, etc.), and Western and Northeastern parts of the Vlora district. There are also historically substantial Bektashi minorities around Elbasan, Berat, Leskovik, Perm, Saranda and Pogradec. In Kosovo and Macedonia there were pockets of Bektashis in Gjakova, Prizren and Tetova. In the Albanian census, a few of these areas, such as Skrapari and Dishnica, saw the Bektashi population mostly labeled \"Bektashi\" while in most other areas such as Kruja it was mostly labeled \"Muslim\". The classification of children of mixed marriages between Sunnis and Bektashis or the widespread phenomenon of both groups marrying Orthodox Albanians also have inconsistent classification and oftentimes the offspring of such unions associate with both of their parents' faiths and occasionally practice both.\n\nIn December 1992 Albania became a full member of the Organisation of the Islamic Conference (now the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation).\n\nThe Bektashi order was widespread in the Ottoman Empire, with most leading Bektashi babas from southern Albania. The Bektashi order was banned throughout the Ottoman Empire by Sultan Mahmud II in 1826. After Mustafa Kemal Atatürk banned all Sufi orders in 1925, the Bektashi leadership moved to Albania and established their headquarters in the city of Tirana, where the community declared its separation from the Sunni. Under communist rule from 1945 - 1990, Bektashism was banned in Albania.\n\nMany \"tekkes\" \"(lodges)\" operate today in Albania. Approximately 20% of Muslims identify themselves as having some connection to Bektashism.\n\nOf the remaining mystical orders in Albania besides the Bektashi, there are those that associate with the mainline Sunni establishment, as well as those who feel themselves to be distant from both the Sunnis and Bektashis, and in terms of organization have oscillated between association with the Sunni establishment, with the Bektashis, and as their own independent organization. Today, these sects, the largest of them being the Halveti Order, and are organized and collectively referred to in Albania as the \"Alevian Community\" () or the \"Alevian Sects\" (). There are other mystical orders who associate more with the Sunni establishment. There is no known direct relation of Alevjans to Turkish \"Alevis\" or Syrian \"Alawites\" except their ambiguous position between Sunnism and Shi'ism, also a characteristic of Bektashism.\n\nAnother, though smaller, Sufi-influenced sect of Muslims in Albania are the Halvetis. The Halveti order first started to spread in Southern Albania in the 16th century and gained many followers later. Less numerous than the Bektashis (and occasionally confused with them) but still significant. During periods of suppression of the Bektashis by the Ottoman authorities, Bektashi tekkes were often conferred upon the Halvetis, such as happened in Kanina, near Vlora There are large concentrations of Halvetis in Devoll, Tropoja, Luma (around Kukes) and in mountainous valleys in the Kurvelesh region. Halvetis also live near Bektashis in Mallakastra, Tepelena, Gjirokastra, Delvina, Permet, Leskovik, Korca, and the city of Berat. The first Albanian Halveti tekke however was in Ioannina, now Greece. After the fall of communism, in 1998, it was reported that there were 42 Bektashi tekkes in Albania. On the census Halvetis are not reported and are usually grouped under generalized \"Muslims\", although in public discourse they are frequently grouped with Bektashis. Halvetis are said to dislike both the dominance of mainline Sunnis in the generic \"Muslim\" community and the non-recognition of their sect's separate existence, but also the dominance of Bektashis in the Dervish scene.\nBesides the two most popular Dervish orders in Albania (Bektashis and Halvetis), there are three other significant Dervish orders: the Kadris (also known as \"Kadris\" or \"Zinxhiris\"), the Sadis and the Rufais.\n\nThe Rufais originated in Iraq as the \"Rifa'is\", from the teachings of the jurist Ahmad ibn 'Ali al-Rifa'i. Little is known about how they spread to the Balkans, but in the Balkans they became known as the \"howling dervishes\" because of ritual practices including piercing of lips and cheeks, eating of glass and burning of skin. Most of these practices have ceased but they still occur in Prizren, in Kosovo. In the late 19th century there was a flourishing Rufai community around Gjakova, in Kosovo, which helped spread the sect in various parts of Albania. During the early years of the 20th century some Rufai tekkes became Bektashi. At the same time, in the same period the order spread to Tropoja, Tirana, Petrela and parts of Southern Albania. In Albania all of their tekkes were closed due to the banning of religion under Communism, but in Yugoslavia the order continued to operate major tekkes in Gjakova, Mitrovica, Skopje, Peja, Rahovec and Prizren. After the fall of Communism, the order reconstituted itself in Albania and opened a tekke in Tirana in 1998.\n\nThe Sa'dis originated in Damascus and in Albania have a close relationship with the Bektashis. Both were favored by Ali Pasha and they looked after and venerated each other's holy places and tombs. There was a Sa'di tekke in Gjakova in 1600, and two Sa'di tekkes in Tepelena two centuries later, as well as some historical presence in Tropoja, Gjirokastër, Elbasan and Peza. In 1980 in Kosovo, there are 10 operating Sa'di tekkes.\n\nThe Kadris first originated as a distinct sect in Istanbul in the 17th century, then were spread to the Balkans as the \"Zindjiris\" by Ali Baba of Crete, originally spreading from within the Bektashi community. There are Kadri tekkes in Tirana, Berat and Peqin, but the main center of the Kadris is Peshkopia in Diber County. In 1945 they were finally recognized as a distinct religious community; since the fall of Communism, they have reconstituted themselves and now have an operating tekke in Peshkopia.\n\nIn the 2011 census, about 10.03% of Albania's population declared Roman Catholic Christianity as of 2011 census. Albania once numbered eighteen episcopal Sees, some of them having uninterrupted activity from the dawn of the Catholicism until today. The country has been a Roman Catholic bridgehead in the Balkans, with Catholic Albanians playing a role not unlike the Croats in the former Yugoslavia. In the Middle Ages, Albania was ruled by many Catholic rulers, including natives but notably the Angevins and it became a site of the spread of Catholicism in the Balkans at the expense of Orthodoxy as previously Orthodox Albanian nobles and their subjects converted as they grew increasingly loyal to the Western powers as a way to fend off threats coming from Orthodox political entities. Despite the ascendance of Catholicism at the time, Orthodox minorities remained. Before long, Durrës and Kruja became major centers of Balkan Catholicism, and in 1167 it was a significant event when Kruja became a Catholic bishopric, with the new bishop consecrated by the Pope himself. Vlora and Butrint also saw Catholicization, and at the peak of Catholic power in the Balkans with Albania as a stronghold, Catholic structures began appearing as far afield as Skopje in 1326. At the end of the 14th century, the previously Orthodox Autocephalous Archbishopric of Ohrid was dismantled in favor of the Catholic rite.\n\nHowever, Ottoman rule ultimately vastly decreased the number of Catholics in Albania and elsewhere in the Balkans, with waves of conversions to Islam and to a lesser extent Orthodoxy occurring especially in the 17th century after a series of failed rebellions and punitive measures which involved drastic raises in the taxes of the Catholic population. The tribal population of Mirdita saw very few conversions because the ease they had defending their terrain meant the Ottomans interfered less in their affairs, and the Republic of Venice prevented Islamisation in Venetian Albania. Today, Catholic Albanians are mostly found in the areas of Malesia e Madhe, Kiri, Puka, Tropoja (where they are a minority), Mirdita, parts of northwestern Mat, Kurbin, Lezhe, Zadrima, Shkodër and Ulqin (where they live alongside very large numbers of Sunni Muslims), minorities in Kruja and some major cities, as well as scattered pockets throughout Gheg-inhabited areas. While there remained a small Albanian Catholic community in Vlore during Ottoman times, larger numbers of Catholics started were reported in the South after the fall of Communism, often in traditionally Orthodox areas.\nFor four centuries, the Catholic Albanians defended their faith, aided by Franciscan missionaries, beginning in the middle of the 17th century, when persecution by Ottoman Turkish lords in Albania started to result in the conversion of many villages to the Islamic faith.\n\nThe College of Propaganda at Rome played a significant role in the religious and moral support of the Albanian Catholics. During the 17 and 18 centuries, the College contributed in educating young clerics appointed to service on Albanian missions, as well as to the financial support of the churches. Work was done by the Austrian Government at the time, which offered significant financial aid in its role as Protector of the Christian community under Ottoman rule.\n\nChurch legislation of the Albanians was reformed by Clement XI, who convoked a general ecclesiastical visitation, held in 1763 by the Archbishop of Antivari, by the end of which a national synod was held. The decrees formulated by the Synod were printed by the College of Propaganda in 1705, and renewed in 1803. In 1872, Pius IX convoked a second national synod at Shkodër, for the revival of the popular and ecclesiastical life. Owing to Austrian interest in Albania, the institution of the Catholic bishops of Albania was obtained through a civil decree released by the Vilajet of Berat.\n\nAlbania was divided ecclesiastically into several archiepiscopal provinces:\nThe last two archiepiscopal provinces did not have any suffragans, and depended directly on the Holy See. A seminary, founded in 1858 by Archbishop Topich of Scutari, was destroyed by the Ottomans, but was later re-established on Austrian territory and placed under imperial protection.\n\nAccording to the 2011 Census, 6.75% of the Albanian population adhere to the Albanian Orthodox Church. Three ethnic groups, Albanians, Greeks, and Aromanians, account for the vast majority of Albania's Orthodox believers. Metropolitan Theofan Fan Noli established the Albanian Orthodox Mission under the American diocese.\n\nAlthough Orthodox Christianity has existed in Albania since the 2nd century AD, and the Orthodox historically constituted 20% of the population of Albania, the first Orthodox liturgy in the Albanian language was celebrated not in Albania, but in Massachusetts. Subsequently, when the Orthodox Church was allowed no official existence in communist Albania, Albanian Orthodoxy survived in exile in Boston (1960–89). It is a curious history that closely entwines Albanian Orthodoxy with the Bay State. \n\nBetween 1890 and 1920, approximately 25,000 Albanians, the majority of them Orthodox Christians from southeastern Albania, emigrated to the United States, settling in and around Boston. Like many other Orthodox immigrants, they were predominantly young, illiterate, male peasants. Like so many other Balkan immigrants, a large number (almost 10,000) returned to their homeland after World War I. \n\nSince the 2nd century AD, the liturgical services, schools and activities of the Orthodox Church in Albania had been conducted in Greek. When Albania came under Ottoman influence in the 15th century the Orthodox people of Albania were members of the Archbishopric of Ohrid which was officially recognized by the Ottoman Empire.\nThose Albanian Orthodox, who, in the fashion of 19th century Balkan nationalism, sought to see their church as an \"Albanian\" rather than \"Greek\" body, were frequently excommunicated by the Greek-speaking hierarchy. Considering that identity during the Ottoman centuries was defined primarily by religious affiliations, such questions in the post-Ottoman period loomed large in the burgeoning national and cultural identities. After the Ecumenical Patriarchate in Constantinople lost in 1870 jurisdictional control over the Bulgarians in the Ottoman Empire, the Patriarchate did not desire further schisms within its ranks. Indeed, so strong was the rivalry of Greeks with Orthodox Albanians who opted for separate cultural activities, that some of the latter category such as Papa Kristo Negovani, a priest educated in Greek schools, Sotir Ollani, Petro Nini Luarasi, Nuci Naco and others were murdered for their patriotic efforts.\n\nNationalist fervor ran high in Albanian immigrant communities in North America. When, in 1906, a Greek priest from an independent Greek parish in Hudson, Massachusetts, refused to bury an Albanian nationalist, an outraged Albanian community petitioned the missionary diocese to assist them in establishing a separate Albanian-language parish within the missionary diocese. Fan Noli, an ardent Albanian nationalist and former parish cantor, was subsequently ordained in February 1908 by a sympathetic Metropolitan Platon to serve this new Albanian parish. Noli went on to organize five additional Albanian parishes, mainly in Massachusetts, as an \"Albanian Orthodox Mission in America\" under the auspices of the American diocese.\nNoli later emigrated to Albania, served as the Albanian delegate to the League of Nations, was consecrated Bishop and Primate of the independent Orthodox Church in Albania in 1923, and even served briefly as Prime Minister of Albania (came in power with the so-called \"The Revolution of 1924\") but was overthrown in a coup by Ahmet Zogu on the same year. After years in exile in Germany, Noli returned to the United States in 1932, studied at Harvard, translated Shakespeare into Albanian and Orthodox Scriptures and services into English, and led the Albanian Orthodox community in this country until his death in 1965. \n\nThe Albanian Greek Catholic Church exists in southern Albania and is under an Apostolic Administration. It has less than 4,000 members.\n\nIn the early 19th century, in accordance with the Protestant practice of making the Scriptures available to all people in their common tongue, the British and Foreign Bible Society began to make plans for the translation, printing, and distribution of the New Testament in Albanian. Soon Alexander Thomson, a Scottish missionary, joined the Society and visited Albania in 1863. Kostandin Kristoforidhi also joined the Society to translate the Scriptures in both Geg and Tosk dialects. In the late 19th century the Society's workers traveled throughout Albania distributing Bibles, under the leadership of Gjerasim Qiriazi who converted, preached the Gospel in Korça, and became the head of the first \"Evangelical Brotherhood\". Qiriazi sought official government recognition for the Albanian Evangelical Church in 1887, a pursuit which would not be fulfilled until 10 March 2011 by Law No. 10394.\n\nThe history of the Jews in Albania dates back at least 2,000 years dating back to 70 CE. Albanian Jews, predominantly Sephardi, have only constituted a very small percentage of the population in modern times .\n\nIn 1673 the charismatic Jewish prophet Sabbatai Zevi was exiled by the Turkish sultan to the Albanian port of Ulqin, now in Montenegro, dying there some years later.\n\nOver the course of World War II Albania saw its Jewish population increase. During the communist dictatorship of Enver Hoxha, the Socialist People's Republic of Albania banned all religions, including Judaism, in adherence to the doctrine of state atheism. In the post-Communist era, these policies were abandoned and freedom of religion was extended, although the number of practicing Jews in Albania today remains small, with many Jews having made aliyah to Israel. Today Jews number around 150. In December 2010 Israeli Chief Rabbi Shlomo Amar installed Rabbi Yoel Kaplan as the country's first Chief Rabbi. Recognition of Judaism as an official religion and Rabbi Kaplan as Chief Rabbi were the result of Prime Minister Sali Berisha's efforts.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Albania was introduced in the 1930s by Refo Çapari, an Albanian politician. Over the recent years several Bahá'í education centres have also been founded.\n\nIrreligion is and has been historically present among Albanians. Nowadays, estimations of the size of the irreligious population vary widely. The self declared atheist population has been given figures ranging from 2.5% to 8% to 9% while other estimates of irreligiosity have reported figures of 39% declaring as \"atheists\"(9%) or \"nonreligious\"(30%), 61% not saying religion was \"important\" to their lives, and 72% \"non-practicing\". \n\nAlbanian national revivalists in the 19th century such as Faik Konitza, Jani Vreto and Zef Jubani were often anti-clerical in rhetoric (Konitza said in 1897: \"Every faith religion makes me puke\", or ), but the first advocate of atheism in modern Albania is thought to have been Ismet Toto, a publicist and revolutionary whose 1934 anti-religious polemic, \"Grindje me klerin\", was one of the first known works advocating against the practice of religion itself in the Albanian language.\n\nUnder Communist rule in 1967, Enver Hoxha persecuted and outlawed public religious practice and adopted state atheism.\n\nSome well known Albanian contemporary atheists include Ismail Kadare, Dritëro Agolli, Ben Blushi, Fatos Lubonja, Mustafa Nano, Saimir Pirgu, Diana Çuli,Elton Deda Fatos Tarifa, , , Gilman Bakalli,Blendi Fevziu and .\n\nIn the 2011 census, 58.70% of Albanians declared themselves to be Muslims, making Islam the largest religion in the country. The majority of Albanian Muslims are secular Sunnis with a significant Bektashi Shia minority. Christianity was declared by 16.99% of the population, making it the 2nd largest religion in the country. The remaining portion of the population is either irreligious or belongs to other religious groups.\n\nMuslims are found throughout the country, while Orthodox followers are concentrated in the south and Catholics are concentrated in the north. However, this division is not strict, particularly in many urban centers, which have mixed populations. Members of the Greek minority, concentrated in the south, belong almost exclusively to the Greek Orthodox Church. In addition to the four traditional religious groups, there are substantial numbers of followers of Protestant denominations, Baha'is, Jehovah's Witnesses, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons), and other religious groups.\n\nAccording to other older sources, up to 75 percent of the population in Albania has declared no religious affiliation since the early 1990s.\n\nThe State Committee on Cults reported a total of 245 religious groups, organizations, and foundations in addition to the 4 traditional faiths. This number includes 34 different Islamic organizations and 189 Protestant organizations, mostly associated with the Albanian Evangelical Brotherhood (Vëllazëria Ungjillore Shqiptare).\n\nThese are only the official statistics of 1935, however, and since then much has changed. Bashkim Zeneli, former Albanian ambassador to Greece, said that about 900,000 Albanians have emigrated to Greece in 20 years, and around 200,000 of them have returned to Albania. From this, around 240,000 are said to be Muslim by heritage, and around 85,000 have returned to Albania. Although they presently live in Albania, a lot of them continue to be Orthodox.\n\nAccording to the 2007–2008 Gallup polls, 63% of Albanians state that religion does not play an important role in their lives.\n\nIn a census performed before World War II, a rough distribution of the population was 70% Muslim, 20% Eastern Orthodox, and 10% Roman Catholic. 65% of Albanian Muslims did not associate with particular sect of Islam in a Pew survey. In 1967, religious practices were officially banned in Albania, making the country the first and only constitutionally atheist state to ever exist. After the fall of state communism, in 1991 religious activities resumed. Among people who follow any of the four major religions in Albania, there is a mixture of various religious traditions and pagan traditions coming from the time before Christianity.\n\nInterfaith marriages between Muslims and Christians are held to be \"common\" and \"unremarkable\" in Albania with little social repercussion, although there is little statistical data on their prevalence. During the communist period, it is known that during the period of 1950–1968, the rates of mixed marriages ranged from 1.6% in Shkodër, 4.3% in Gjirokastër to 15.5% among the textile workers in Tiranë. In the district of Shkodër they reached 5% in the year 1980.\n\nHowever, even among those who declared themselves to be adherents of a religion, the majority of the population in Albania has a more secular interpretation of religion than that which would be found in other countries. In August 2012, a Pew Research study found that only 15% of the Muslim population for example, considers religion to be a very important factor in their lives, which was the lowest percentage in the world amongst countries with significant Muslim populations. Another survey conducted by Gallup Global Reports 2010 shows that religion plays a role to 39% of Albanians, and lists Albania as the thirteenth least religious country in the world. Also in Albania the majority of the males are not circumcised (as demanded by Islamic custom).\n\nA medical study from 2008 in Tirana on the relationship between religious observance and acute coronary syndrome found out that 67% of Muslims and 55% of Christians were completely religiously non-observant. The regular attendance of religious institutions (at least once every 2 weeks) was low in both denominations (6% in Muslims and 9% in Christians), and weekly attendance was very low (2% and 1%, respectively). Frequent praying (at least 2 to 3 times per week) was higher in Christians (29%) than in Muslims (17%) Praying several times daily (as required of devout Muslims) was rare (2% in Muslims and 3% in Christians). Regular fasting during Ramadan or Lent was similarly low in Muslims and Christians (5% and 6%, respectively). Generally Christians in the study were more observant then Muslims (26% vs 17%).\n\nA 2015 study on the Albanian youth aged 16–27 found that total of 80 percent of young people in Albania are not religion practitioners and practice their religion only during the main religious holidays and festivities. Specifically 23 percent of the respondents never practised their religion, while 61 percent practised it only in religious holidays. From the rest, 11 percent practiced it 1-2 times a week, while 5 percent practiced it everyday.\n\nIn the European Values Survey in 2008, Albania had the highest unbelief in life after death among all other countries, with 74.3% not believing in it.\n\nAccording to a WIN/Gallup International study in 2016 about the beliefs of the Albanians:\n\n\nEstimates of the 2018 published Swiss Metadatabase of Religious Affiliation (SMRE) assume for the period 2000 (1996–2005) 8% Catholics, 15% Orthodox, 65.9% Muslims and 10.9% people with no religious affiliation. For the period 2010 (2006–2015) the SMRE estimates 8.7% Catholics, 9.1% Orthodox, 52.5% Muslim and 29.5% people with no religious affiliation.\n\nThe results of the 2011 census, however, have been criticized as questionable on a number of grounds. The Albanian Orthodox Church refused to recognize the results, saying they had drastically underrepresented the number of Orthodox Christians and noted various indications of this and ways in which it may have occurred. The Orthodox church claimed that from its own calculations, the Orthodox percentage should have been around 24%, rather than 6.75%. Meanwhile, the Bektashi leadership also lambasted the results, which even more drastically reduced their representation down to 2%, also rejected the results and said it would conduct its own census to refute the results.\n\nMinority organizations of Greeks (mostly Orthodox) and Roma (mostly Muslim) also claimed that minorities were underrepresented and the Greek organization Omonia argued that this was linked to the under-representation of the Orthodox population.\n\nThe Orthodox percentage reported might be lower than the actual value due to boycotts of the census, but also because the census staff failed to contact a very large number of people in the south which is traditionally an Orthodox stronghold. The Orthodox Church said that according to a questionnaire it gave its followers during two Sunday liturgies in urban centers such as Durrësi, Berati and Korça, only 34% of its followers were actually contacted. The districts of Lushnja and Fieri (comprising the historic region of Myzeqe), which are far from any international borders and have an overwhelmingly ethnic Albanian population (except for a few Vlachs and Roma), were historically around 55% and 65% Orthodox historically, reported figures roughly were a factor of five times lower. This caused furor in the Albanian media, with an Orthodox Albanian politician Dritan Prifti who at the time was a prominent MP for the Myzeqe region saying that in Myzeqe alone there should be about 200,000 Orthodox Albanians- a bigger number than reported for the whole of Albania and referred to fluctuating census numbers regarding the Orthodox community as being due to a \"anti-Orthodox agenda\" in Albania.\n\nThe Albanian Catholic Bishops Conference also cast doubts on the census, complaining that many of its believers were not contacted.\n\nAccording to the Council of Europe (\"Third Opinion of the Council of Europe on Albania adopted 23.11.2011,\") the results of the census \"should be viewed with the utmost caution and calls on the authorities not to rely exclusively on the data on nationality collected during the census in determining its policy on the protection of national minorities.\"\n\nMoreover, the World Council of Churches (WCC) general secretary Rev. Dr Olav Fykse Tveit has expressed concern at the methodology and results of the Albania Census 2011. He has raised questions in regard to the reliability of the process which, he said, has implications for the rights of religious minorities and religious freedoms guaranteed in the country's constitution. Tveit expressed this concern in letters issued at the beginning of May to the WCC president Archbishop Anastasios, to Prof. Dr Heiner Bielefeldt, United Nations Special Rapporteur on Freedom of Religion or Belief, and to the Albanian government.\n\nThere were other serious allegations about the conduct of the census workers that might have impacted on the 2011 census results. There were some reported cases where workers filled out the questionnaire about religion without even asking the participants or that the workers used pencils which were not allowed. In some cases communities declared that census workers never even contacted them. Additionally, the preliminary results released seemed to give widely different results, with 70% of respondents refusing to declare belief in any of the listed faiths, compared with only 16% of atheists and undeclared in the final results. It was reported in Albanian media that there were instances of pollsters telling respondents that the religion question would be filled out for them. Some Albanian commenters also argue that the census takers guessed religion based on the responders family names and that even the census responders did give an answer based on family origin and not actual religion.\n\nAccording to 2008 statistics from the religious communities in Albania, there are 1119 churches and 638 mosques in the country. The Roman Catholic mission declared 694 Catholic churches. The Christian Orthodox community, 425 Orthodox churches. The Muslim community, 568 mosques, and 70 Bektashi tekkes.\n\nThe Constitution extends freedom of religion to all citizens and the government generally respects this right in practice. The Albanian Constitution declares no official religion and provides for equality of all religions; however, the predominant religious communities (Bektashi, Sunni Muslim, Orthodox and Roman Catholic) enjoy a greater degree of official recognition (e.g. national holidays) and social status based on their historical presence in the country. All registered religious groups have the right to hold bank accounts and to own property and buildings. Religious freedoms have in large part been secured by the generally amicable relationship among religions. The Ministry of Education has the right to approve the curricula of religious schools to ensure their compliance with national education standards while the State Committee on Cults oversees implementation. There are also 68 vocational training centers administered by religious communities.\n\nGovernment policy and practice contributed to the generally free exercise of religion. The government is secular and the Ministry of Education asserts that public schools in the country are secular and that the law prohibits ideological and religious indoctrination. Religion is not taught in public schools.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314028", "title": "North American Sabreliner", "text": "North American Sabreliner\n\nThe North American Sabreliner, later sold as the Rockwell Sabreliner, is an American mid-sized business jet developed by North American Aviation. It was offered to the United States Air Force (USAF) in response to its Utility Trainer Experimental (UTX) program. It was named \"Sabreliner\" due to the similarity of the wing and tail to North American's F-86 Sabre jet fighter. Military variants, designated T-39 Sabreliner, were used by the USAF, United States Navy (USN), and United States Marine Corps (USMC) after the USAF placed an initial order in 1959. The Sabreliner was also developed into a commercial variant.\n\nNorth American Aviation began development of the Sabreliner as an in-house project, and in response to the UTX request for proposals, offered a military version to the USAF. UTX combined two different roles, personnel transport and combat readiness training, into the same aircraft.\n\nThe civilian version prototype, which carried the model number NA-265, made its first flight on September 16, 1958. It was powered by two General Electric YJ85 turbojet engines. The type received its FAA type certification in April 1963. The UTX candidate, designated the T-39A, was identical in configuration to the NA-265, but when the contract was awarded and the T-39A entered production, it was powered by two Pratt & Whitney JT12A-8 turbojet engines.\n\nThe civilian production version, or Series 40, was slightly refined over the prototype, with more speed and a roomier cabin. North American then stretched the design by and , providing greater cabin space, and marketed it as the Series 60, which was certificated in April 1967. The cabin was made taller for the Series 70 and General Electric CF700 turbofans were installed for the Series 75A (also branded as the Series 80).\n\nBy 1973, North American had merged with Rockwell Standard under the name Rockwell International. In 1976 Rockwell contracted Raisbeck Engineering to redesign the wing of the Sabreliner series. The resulting Raisbeck Mark V wing was the first supercritical wing in service in the United States. The Mark V wing was combined with Garrett TFE731 turbofan engines, to create the Series 65. Sabreliner models 60 and 80 were retrofitted with the Mark V wing as the Series 60A (STC SA687NW) and Series 80A (STC SA847NW).\n\nSabreliner production came to a close in 1981. The next year, Rockwell sold its Sabreliner division to a private equity firm which formed Sabreliner Corporation, the support organization for continuing operators.\n\nOver 800 Sabreliners were produced, of which 200 were T-39s. A number of retired military T-39s have also entered the civilian world since the military versions also carry FAA type certification. , 56 examples have been lost in accidents. The Series 65 was the last series run and 76 of them were produced, mostly for the private market. Monsanto has the oldest continuously operating company corporate jet division starting with its purchase of a Saberliner 40.\n\nT-39s were used in support of combat operations in Southeast Asia during the Vietnam War. In late 1965 T-39s replaced Martin B-57 Canberras on flights to transport high-priority cargo, such as exposed film from photoreconnaissance missions, from outlying bases to Saigon.\n\nThe original Navy version, the T3J-1, redesignated T-39D after the 1962 redesignation of USN/USMC/USCG aircraft, was initially fitted with the radar system from the McDonnell F3H-1 Demon all-weather fighter and used as a radar trainer for pilots of that aircraft. The T-39D aircraft was subsequently introduced into the Basic Naval Aviation Observer (NAO), later Student Naval Flight Officer (SNFO) program. Three versions of the T-39D were used throughout the 1960s, '70s, and '80s: one without radar for high altitude instrument navigation training and low altitude visual navigation training in the SNFO Intermediate syllabus; a second variant equipped with the APQ-126 radar from the LTV A-7 Corsair II for training primarily bombardier/navigators, reconnaissance attack navigators, and electronic countermeasures officers in attack aircraft; and a third variant with the APQ-94 radar for training pilots of the Vought F-8 Crusader.\n\nThe T-39N and T-39G are currently used in the NFO Strike and Strike Fighter syllabi in training USN and USMC student Naval Flight Officers, as well as various NATO/allied/coalition student navigators. Foreign students also train in the T-39 in place of the Beechcraft T-1 Jayhawk during the Intermediate Jet syllabus.\n\nThe Sabreliner requires a minimum crew of two and, depending on cabin configuration, can carry up to seven passengers (NA-265 through NA-265-40) or ten passengers (NA-265-60 and subsequent models). As a Navy flight training aircraft, it will typically fly with a pilot, one or two NFO instructors, and two to three student NFOs or student navigators/CSOs.\n\nBeing derived from the F-86, the Sabreliner is the only business jet authorised for aerobatics and is used by two California companies: Flight Research Inc. and Patriots Jet Team, for inflight upset-recovery training to reduce loss-of-control, involving full stalls, fully inverted flight, and 20-40° descents in a 2.8g envelope, within its 3g rating.\n\nBetween 1993 and 1995, Osama bin Laden reportedly used a former USAF T-39A, which had been converted to civilian use and refurbished at Van Nuys Airport. Egyptian pilot and bin Laden proxy Essam al-Ridi lawfully purchased the aircraft from a U.S. broker in California in 1992, claiming to represent wealthy Egyptians. Al Ridi claims to have personally delivered the plane in January 1993 to bin Laden, who was then exiled in Sudan. There, the jet was reportedly used to ferry five Al-Qaeda operatives to Kenya to agitate tribal insurgency against US peacekeeping troops, and one of the passengers was allegedly senior bin Laden deputy Mohammed Atef. Al-Qaeda-trained pilot Ihab Mohammad Ali testified that, in 1995, bin Laden asked him to ram the plane against that of Egyptian president Hosni Mubarak. However, the jet overran the runway in Khartoum later that year, and was badly damaged and subsequently abandoned due to high anticipated repair costs; both al Ridi and Ali separately claimed to have been at the controls.\n\nA Sabreliner marketing version of the Sabre 40 with lighter avionics similar to the Aero Commander, also produced by Rockwell International at the time. In addition to the lighter avionics package, the interior was redesigned for lighter construction. \n\n\n\n\n\nAs of December 2019, there have been 62 recorded incidents and accidents involving the Sabreliner, resulting in 153 deaths. Listed below are a select few of the most notable ones.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314033", "title": "Takamatsu Airport", "text": "Takamatsu Airport\n\nIt is equipped with an Instrument Landing System, VHF Omni-directional Radio Range, Distance Measuring Equipment, Airport Surveillance Radar, approach lights, precision approach angle guidance lights, and more.\n\nOn January 16, 2013, an All Nippon Airways Boeing 787 (Flight NH692) made an emergency landing at Takamatsu after reporting a battery problem in flight. That aircraft was flying to Haneda Airport during that incident.\n\nMost flights that arrive and depart from Takamatsu Airport are ANA (All Nippon Airways) and Japan Airlines (JAL) planes. Both Airlines transport passengers mainly from Takamastu Airport to Tokyo International airport (Haneda Airport). However, other airlines such as Asiana Airlines transport passengers to airports like Incheon International Airport.\n\nJapan Airlines uses 737-800 aircraft, while ANA uses 787-8, 767-300, and 777-200 aircraft on domestic routes. International carriers are seen using narrow-body aircraft on their routes.\n\nTakamatsu Airport has one terminal/concourse consisting of four main gates. The first three gates are used primarily by All Nippon Airways and Japan Airlines. The other gate is primarily for international flights and is connected to the international side of the lobby via an escalator up to the security checkpoint. However, the international and domestic sides of the terminal are not separated.\n\nShops are located on the first and second floor, including restaurants and cafes. An outdoor observation deck is located on the 3rd floor directly overlooking the four main gates.\n\nEntrances to the terminal are located on the first floor in front of the drop off lanes. The drop off lanes also connect to the main parking area of Takamatsu Airport.\n\n"}
{"id": "2314036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314036", "title": "Jiwajirao Scindia", "text": "Jiwajirao Scindia\n\nMaharaja Jivajirao Scindia (26 June 1916 – 16 July 1961) of the Scindia dynasty of the Marathas was the last reigning Maharaja of Gwalior state in central India, and the rajpramukh (appointed governor) of the former state of Madhya Bharat, India. The Maharaja was and still is very popular due to his interest in model railroads. He assembled a toy train of silver in his palace dining table in Jai Vilas Palace, Gwalior to serve food, wines and chutneys to the guests.\n\nJivajirao was a scion of the Scindia family, descended from the Maratha general Ranojirao Scindia. Ranojirao was the head of the Maratha armies in Malwa during the first part of the 18th century, as the Maratha Empire was expanding rapidly at the expense of the Mughal Empire. Daulatrao Scindia shifted the capital from Ujjain to the new city of Lashkar, near the historic fortress-city of Gwalior. The Scindias accepted British suzerainty in 1818 at the conclusion of their benefits from them after they lost 3rd War Third Anglo-Maratha War. At 68,291 km², Gwalior was the largest state in the Central India Agency, and among the five largest princely states in all of India.\n\nJivajirao became Maharaja on 5 June 1925, succeeding his father Madho Rao Scindia upon his death. On 21 February 1941, he married Lekha Divyeshwari Devi, afterwards known as Vijaya Raje Scindia, who was descended from the powerful Rana dynasty of Nepal. They were the parents of five children, four daughters and a son, including:\n\nJivajirao ruled Gwalior state as absolute monarch and a British vassal until shortly after India's independence on 15 August 1947. The rulers of Indian princely states were required to accede to either of the two dominions (India and Pakistan) created by the India Independence Act 1947. Jivajirao signed a covenant with the rulers of the adjoining princely states that united their several states form a new state within the Union of India known as Madhya Bharat. This new covenanted state was to be governed by a council headed by a ruler to be known as the \"Rajpramukh\". Madhya Bharat signed a fresh Instrument of Accession with the Government of India effective 15 June 1948. Jivajirao Scindia became the first rajpramukh, or appointed governor, of the state on 28 May 1948. He served as Rajpramukh until 31 October 1956, when the state was merged into Madhya Pradesh.\n\nAfter his death in 1961, Jivajirao's family remained involved in politics. In 1962, his widow, Rajmata Vijayraje Scindia, was elected to the Lok Sabha, beginning the family's career in electoral politics. She was initially a member of the Indian National Congress party, parted ways in 1967, joined the Jana Sangh, and later became an influential member of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Their son, Madhavrao Scindia, was elected to the Lok Sabha in 1971, representing the Jana Sangh. He later joined the Congress in 1980 served until his death in 2001. Madhavrao's son, Jyotiraditya Scindia,was also a member of the Congress Party, was elected in 2002 to the seat formerly held by his father. On 10-March-2020 Jyotiraditya Scindia quit Indian National Congress. Jivajirao's daughter Vasundhara Raje is an eminent politician associated with the Bharatiya Janata Party. She was the first woman Chief Minister of Rajasthan and also was a member of the Lok Sabha for four consecutive terms since 1989.\n\nJivajirao was also known with his full name: \"Lieutenant-General His Highness Ali Jah, Umdat ul-Umara, Hisam us-Sultanat, Mukhtar ul-Mulk, Azim ul-Iqtidar, Rafi-us-Shan Wala Shikoh, Muhtasham-i-Dauran, Maharajadhiraj Maharaja Shrimant Jivaji Rao Scindia Bahadur, Shrinath, Mansur-i-Zaman, Fidvi-i-Hazrat-i-Malika-i-Mua'zzama-i-Rafi-ud-Darja-i-Inglistan, Maharaja Scindia of Gwalior, GCSI, GCIE\".\n\nDuring his life he acquired several titles and honorific names:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314040", "title": "In God We Trust (Stryper album)", "text": "In God We Trust (Stryper album)\n\nIn God We Trust is the fourth studio album by Christian metal band Stryper, released in 1988. The album achieved Gold record status, selling over half a million copies. Three singles were released including \"Always There For You\" and \"I Believe in You\" which both hit the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart peaking at No. 71 and No. 88 respectively. The third single \"Keep The Fire Burning\" did not chart. The album received two GMA Dove Awards for \"Hard Music Album\" and \"Hard Rock Song\" for the title track.\n\nAll songs written by Michael Sweet except where noted\n\nStryper\n\nAdditional musicians\n\nProduction\n\n"}
{"id": "2314042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314042", "title": "New Southgate", "text": "New Southgate\n\nNew Southgate is a residential suburb straddling three Outer London Boroughs: a small part of the east of Barnet, a south-west corner of Enfield and in loosest definitions, based on nearest railway stations, a small northern corner of Haringey in North London, England where estates merge into Bounds Green. \n\nIts first church, founded in 1873, was among organisations opting for the newer name, New Southgate, rather than the older hamlet name Colney Hatch which from 1851 became more use-specific. The gradual demise of the former place name use is shown by New Southgate railway station, renamed five times. Changes in this terminology reflect social stigma to a large residential institution, in this case the Colney Hatch Lunatic Asylum, built in 1851, which co-provided for Middlesex and as such continued to serve much of London after London County Council was founded in 1889. The later mental health hospital closed in 1993 and has been redeveloped into two housing estates, Princess Park Manor and Friern Village in New Southgate.\n\nThe low-rise residential area with some mid-rise pockets and many small parks, recreation grounds, schools and playgrounds is characterised by housing estates with rear gardens, resulting in its relatively low population density. The district traverses three boroughs: Barnet, Enfield and Haringey. Much is a sub area of Southgate and part of an electoral ward which has usually included 'Southgate' in successive names, including Southgate Grove, and the current Southgate Green.\n\nThe postcode area N11 takes in New Southgate. It skirts significantly into Arnos Grove, Bounds Green and Friern Barnet. It is numbered eleventh (N11) due to its main post distribution centre being in New Southgate and the numbering on that basis was alphabetical (aside from N1).\n\nThe first reference to New Southgate is in the 1850s. Much of New Southgate was once the hamlet of Betstile centred on a crossroads at which stood Betstile House and Betstile Lodge; Betstyle has been perpetuated since the early 20th century with Betstyle Road and Betstyle Circus. \n\nNorth and east parts were known as Betstyle and as a natural progression fell into the Municipal Borough of Southgate (1881-1965); Southgate had recently grown from a broad hamlet of South Street and others in the parish of Edmonton. From 1851 Southgate constituted a district chapelry under Edmonton which replaced the semi-private Ward Chapel at Arnos Grove built in the 17th century — immediately north-east of Betstyle. The parent chapelry was upgraded with a church in 1862 and installed with stained glass windows in 1865 by D.G. Rossetti by which date it had many isolated streets of housing to serve such as around the crossroads at Betstyle (also written as Betstile).\n\nWest parts from 1409 until the 20th century were frequently referred to in title deeds as Colney Hatch. Development was tightly constrained. It was estimated the hamlet had 12 of 78 taxable houses in the narrow parish in 1795; but 33 inhabited houses in Colney Hatch are recorded in 1801. This co-parent parish extended a total of west, Friern Barnet. Maps show the name Colney Hatch, interchangeably with New Southgate, coming to cover the more developed hamlet Betstyle, in the chapelry of Southgate within the parish of Edmonton; the refined hamlet and grand asylum outweighed the initial stigma in official maps and deeds, but less so in social organisations and in the naming of the railway station, the line of which resembles the historic split between the two parishes and later districts including today's boroughs. The crossroads of Colney Hatch had Halliwick manor house standing north of some cottages on the south-west corner; The White House and The Orange Tree Inn on the north-west side near to Brook House; The Priory, north-east with Woodlands, Greenbank, and Springfield to the north to which were added the Hermitage and several cottages on the south-west corner by 1783. It saw very little change in the 19th century before the construction of the county lunatic asylum: in 1882 Colney Hatch was described \"as a village which had sprung up to serve the staff\".\n\nHowever Colney Hatch was from 1851 slowly erased from the names of schools, churches and most other organisations as residents sought to distance themselves from a lingering social stigma from passers-by and social gossip across the county of the large mental health institution. The vast site operated for many decades, first under an enforced mass segregation regime which was later abolished nationwide, to treat the mentally unwell — Colney Hatch Lunatic Asylum. \n\nAll 19th century urban development was concentrated in the east on what had been Betstyle, from the rural centre of the ancient, that is to say medieval-founded, elongated parish of Friern Barnet to the northwest. The name Colney Hatch Park was used by some developers for this area; however the new name New Southgate was increasingly adopted.\n\nParishes had taken over from manorial courts by devolution to their vestries chiefly in the 17th century. Southgate, extending to the north and east, became a local board in 1881, and later an urban district and municipal borough. Friern Barnet civil parish, extending in the other directions, became Friern Barnet Urban District which existed between 1883 and 1965. \n\nSt Paul's Church, New Southgate was consecrated in 1873, taking part of its parish from Christ Church, Southgate and part from St James the Great, Friern Barnet, the latter transferring land east of the Great Northern Railway. The extant ecclesiastical parish boundary likewise traverses the boroughs of Enfield and Barnet while additionally a small portion is within the London Borough of Haringey, Bounds Green Ward.\n\nMany tens of acres were bought and used by the second county lunatic asylum for Middlesex, as maps of before World War II show. The later mental health hospital on the site closed in 1993. It was redeveloped into two housing estates, Princess Park Manor and Friern Village in New Southgate.\n\nThe Anglican church in New Southgate is the first locally. It originated in 1870 in a mission to the new district of Colney Hatch by the assistant curate of the church built seven years previously in Southgate. In 1873 it became a consolidated chapelry in parts of Southgate and Friern Barnet parishes, with the vicar of Southgate as patron. Attendance on census Sunday 1903 was 206 in the morning and 265 in the evening. Services were held in a temporary building in Ely Place until a church was built on land between Betstyle Road (later High Road) and Woodland Road probably given by G. Knights-Smith, one of the largest subscribers. The foundation stone was laid in 1872 and the church, built of stone in the Early English style under the direction of George Gilbert Scott, was consecrated in 1873. It consists of chancel with north and south chapels and south bell turret and aisled nave. The fabric, severely damaged by bombing in 1944, was restored by R. S. Morris by 1957. A stone vicarage, built in Woodland Road opposite the church in 1878–80, was demolished in 1964. A parish hall was built to the north of the church in 1908.\n\nIn 1910 the more stridently Protestant, Baptist United Reform church, Christ Church New Southgate & Friern Barnet was built.\n\nThe Catholic Church, Our Lady of Lourdes dates to the mid 20th century.\n\nNew Southgate was home to Jerome K Jerome, writer of \"Three Men in a Boat\", who lived on Springfield Road. He is commemorated with a statue of a boat and a mosaic of a dog on the New Southgate Millennium Green on Station Road.\n\nGerald Massey, poet and Chartist, lived on Grove Road, New Southgate, and gives his name to the adjoining Massey Close.\n\nNew Southgate railway station is situated on Station Road, on the border with neighbouring Friern Barnet. The station is served by Great Northern and Thameslink trains, which link the area to destinations in Hertfordshire to the north, including Potter's Bar and Welwyn Garden City. Southbound services travel towards King's Cross or Moorgate (in the City) via Finsbury Park. The station was built in 1851 and its name has changed several times over the years, often sharing its name with Colney Hatch and Friern Barnet.\n\nArnos Grove is the closest tube station, on the Piccadilly line. This line too runs southbound towards Finsbury Park and King's Cross, although trains continue towards the West End and West London, and Heathrow Airport.\n\nLondon Buses routes 34, 184, 221, 232, 251, 298, and 382 pass through the area. Bus 34 runs overnight on Friday and Saturday nights between Barnet and Walthamstow Central. Night bus N91 runs between Cockfosters and Trafalgar Square nightly.\n\nA spur of Crossrail 2 is planned to terminate at New Southgate, if the project goes ahead.\n\nThe A406 North Circular Road runs along the southern edge of New Southgate. The road links the area directly to the M1, M11, and M4 roads, and to major areas elsewhere in London such as Chiswick, Wembley, and Ilford. According to Inrix, the A406 between East Finchley and Edmonton (which passes through New Southgate), is the sixth most congested stretch of road in the UK. Inrix estimated in 2019 that 43 hours are 'lost' in traffic jams in the area each year.\n\nOther main routes include the A109 (south-north from Wood Green to Whetstone), the A1003 (westbound to Friern Barnet and North Finchley), and the A1110 (eastbound to the North Circular Road).\n\nA two-way cycle track runs adjacent to the eastbound carriageway of the North Circular Road. The cycleway is segregated from traffic and carries cyclists westbound towards Henley's Corner (near Golder's Green).\n\nA shared-use path for cyclists and pedestrians runs northbound from New Southgate to East Barnet through Brunswick Park. The route is named the Waterfall Walk and is part of the Pymmes Brook Trail. For cyclists, it is signposted northbound towards East Barnet. A similar path runs south through Arnos Park, again following the course of the Pymmes Brook.\n"}
{"id": "2314043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314043", "title": "Tomahawk (album)", "text": "Tomahawk (album)\n\nTomahawk is the debut studio album by American experimental rock band Tomahawk. Recorded after a meeting between vocalist Mike Patton and guitarist Duane Denison, the album features members of Faith No More, The Jesus Lizard, Helmet and Melvins. The band toured with Tool in support of the record, but were not well received by Tool's fans.\n\nReleased on October 30, 2001, through Patton's record label Ipecac Recordings, \"Tomahawk\" has received positive attention from critics, with most appraisals drawing attention to the versatility of Patton's vocals. The album charted in both Australia and the United States, reaching a peak of number 20 in the \"Billboard\" Independent Albums countdown.\n\nFor \"Tomahawk\", the band is composed of Mike Patton, vocalist for Faith No More and Mr. Bungle; Duane Denison, guitarist for The Jesus Lizard; Kevin Rutmanis, bass player for Melvins; and John Stanier, drummer for Helmet. Patton and Denison met in 2000 at a Mr. Bungle concert in Nashville, Tennessee, and began exchanging music. From there, the two began to jam together with a view to releasing an album. In a 2016 interview, Duane Denison stated \"I wrote the basic tunes on my own (on a 4-track) and sent the cassettes (this was '99\n-2000) to Mike, who then added vocals and samples for me to listen to. I think it took about a year altogether. We tracked and mixed live, altogether, in Nashville.\"\n\nThe band hired Joe Funderburk to produce the album; Funderburk had previously worked with Emmylou Harris and The Judds. The album was released through Ipecac Recordings, the record label owned by Patton and Greg Werckman. Ipecac is also home to Rutmanis' band Melvins, whose vocalist and guitarist Buzz Osborne had previously collaborated with Patton as a member of Fantômas. It was recorded in Nashville during mid-2001. Denison reflected \"Being in Nashville seemed to bring out the worst in everyone--excessive drinking, anxiety, fighting, etc...that's the chemistry!\".\n\nPatton described the new group as \"the closest thing to a rock band I've been involved with for a while\". Regarding their name, Denison stated \"It’s the kind of name an average kid says, “Hey TOMAHAWK is coming to town.” It sounds like it would be this hard, aggressive, typical nu metal band... and we’re not. There's some hard rock to it, but it's not typical. It's not wall to wall big riffs and kicking riffs. It's varied and the name can be deceiving.\"\n\n\"Tomahawk\" was released on October 30, 2001. The album was supported by a tour in which the band supported Tool; however, Tool's fans were unreceptive to Tomahawk and frequently booed their performances.\n\nWriting for AllMusic, Blake Butler rated \"Tomahawk\" four stars out of five, describing the album as \"moody, violent, beautiful, sarcastic, vomitive, silly [and] heartstopping\". Butler praised Patton's versatility, calling the vocalist \"a complete and utter musical visionary, and a mind-blowing and standard-warping genius\". \"Pitchfork\" Luke Buckman award the album a rating of 7 out of 10, similarly highlighting Patton's vocals as exemplary. Buckman called Patton \"one of the greatest male vocalists around today\"; and felt that \"Flashback\" and \"Cul de Sac\" were among the album's best songs. Mark Reed of Drowned in Sound rated the album 8 out of 10, noting the \"wit\" and \"style\" of the songwriting. Reed felt that the album was among the most conventional of those recorded by Patton, but still described it as featuring \"supercatchy, earstretching vocals, dark lyrics rich in black humour, swathes of crunchy guitars and some of the most unusual rhythms to be played by human hands since time began\".\n\nWriting for the \"Boston Herald\", Butch Lazorchak rated \"Tomahawk\" three stars out of four, finding that it \"makes mincemeat out of the new-metal Johnny-come-latelies\". Lazorchak described the album as having \"an updated '70s hard rock approach that echoes Blue Öyster Cult at its sinister best\", and found the opening song \"Flashback\" to be a \"head-crushing pleasure\". Reviewing a leg of the album's supporting tour for \"The Irish Times\", Peter Crawley felt that \"Sir Yes Sir\" was a highlight of the album, due to Patton's \"dark utterings\" and Rutmanis' \"drilling bassline\". Writing for \"CMJ New Music Monthly\", Dana Buoniconti compared the album to the soundtracks of David Lynch's film and television work—specifically likening \"Honeymoon\" and \"Sweet Smell of Success\" to the \"Twin Peaks\" theme. Buoniconti found \"Tomahawk\" to be \"unsettling and unwholesome\", but \"thoroughly appealing\".\n\n\"Tomahawk\" reached its highest chart position on the United States Independent Albums chart, reaching a peak position of 20 and spending two weeks in that chart. It also reached a peak of 31 in that country's Top Heatseekers chart. It spent one week in the Australian ARIA Charts, reaching number 37.\n\n"}
{"id": "2314044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314044", "title": "Tommy Jarvis", "text": "Tommy Jarvis\n\nTommy Jarvis is a fictional character in the \"Friday the 13th\" franchise, portrayed by Corey Feldman, John Shepherd and Thom Mathews. He appears in three of the twelve \"Friday the 13th\" films, making his first appearance in \"\". Tommy is the most prominent of three \"Friday the 13th\" protagonists, the others being Alice Hardy and Ginny Field, to appear in more than one film. Originally, the ending for \"A New Beginning\" intended to have Tommy Jarvis become the antagonist in subsequent sequels. \n\nOutside of the films, he is a main character in the comic book adaptations and novels. He is a playable character in the video game \"\" with Mathews reprising his role.\n\nTommy Jarvis first appears in \"\" as a young boy (played by Corey Feldman), residing with his divorced mother and sister, with an affinity for making his own masks and make-up effects. When Jason Voorhees appears and begins killing the group of teenagers neighboring across from him, Tommy is forced to fight for his life along with his sister Trish. In an attempt to trick Jason, Tommy shaves his head to make himself appear as Jason was when he himself was young. Ultimately, Tommy kills Jason by slamming a machete into the side of his head, in which splits his head upon falling down on the blade. When he and Trish embrace, he notices Jason's fingers slowly move and he begins to hack away at his body.\n\nIn \"\", the events from the previous film have put an effect on Tommy's mind where he is put in an institution. He is then put in a halfway house, but unfortunately, at this time, a series of murders begin nearby with Jason Voorhees being tied to the killings. Tommy's mind continues to slip again, seeing images of Jason haunting him. Tommy (played by John Shepherd) manages to confront the hockey masked murderer, believing him to be another hallucination. But he is real and attacks Tommy, finally forcing him to take his life - only for it to turn out that the killer was a copycat named Roy Burns. But it's too late for Tommy, as the last wall of sanity has fallen with the ghost of Jason fading before his eyes. Keeping the killer's hockey mask, he puts it on and attempts to assume Jason's mantle, but he is apparently stopped and treated before things go too far.\n\nIn \"\", a more stable Tommy (played by Thom Mathews), with a friend from the institution, is ready to confront his demons - or rather the demon that is Jason. Wanting to see Jason's decayed body himself, he also wants to make sure that Jason will never rise again and attempts to cremate him. But his memories of his encounter with Jason still linger heavily and he madly attacks the body with a metal fence pole when the coffin is opened. Before Tommy can cremate Jason, the pole winds up attracting bolts of lightning that unfortunately reawakens Jason as a zombie now and gives him a more powerful lease on life; he has become impervious even to being shot at point-blank range with a shotgun - though he still feels the impact of the bullets - and now possesses supernaturally powerful strength and healing factor to aid in slaughtering his victims with. Trying to make amends for his mistake, Tommy warns the sheriff who, being familiar with Jarvis, locks him up thinking he's had another mental breakdown. The piles of bodies Jason racks up only convinces the sheriff that the killer is Tommy. Time is running short as Jason makes his way to the renamed campgrounds. With a plan in mind, and aided by the sheriff's daughter Megan, Tommy lures Jason into the very same lake from which the Voorhees legend started, chaining Jason to the bottom of the lake by a large stone, encircled in fire, and having part of his face chewed by the boat's propeller blades. Although almost nearly dying from Jason's attacks during the struggle, Megan rescues him from the waters and revives him with CPR much to her and the camp's children's joy; as he embraces, he finally exclaims \"It's over, it's finally over... Jason's home.\" as the two stare off at the lake where Jason remains trapped.\n\nThom Mathews also reprised the role of Tommy in the unofficial \"Friday the 13th\" fan film \"Never Hike Alone\" released in 2017.\n\nIn the novelization of \"Friday the 13th Part VI: Jason Lives\", it is revealed what happened between Tommy and Pam at the end of \"Friday the 13th: A New Beginning\"; the book explains that Pam had managed to return Tommy to his senses and, when Tommy was put back in a mental institution, she helped him recover. The novel \"Friday the 13th: Carnival of Maniacs\" references Tommy, revealing he has written at least six books about Jason and Crystal Lake, with the title of one them being mentioned as \"My Life of Hell: One Man's Fight Against Jason Voorhees\", which is described as a \"whiny piece of garbage\" by a character. In the mockumentary called \"\"The Crystal Lake Massacres Revisited\"\" (included on the 2009 DVD extra) it is mentioned that Tommy was thought to be the killer in \"Friday the 13th Part VI: Jason Lives\" by the local town folk. It also talks about Tommy's stay at the state mental hospital, and how due to overcrowding was sent to Pinehurst. Tommy faces Jason again in the comic miniseries \"Freddy vs. Jason vs. Ash: Nightmare Warriors\". When Jason attacks Dr. Maggie Burroughs' group for those who have survived Jason Voorhees and Freddy Krueger, Tommy intervenes and reveals his intent to finish Jason off, ultimately decapitating him with the help of Jason's great-niece, Stephanie. After both Freddy and Jason are defeated, Tommy is appointed leader of the Nightmare Warriors by Ash Williams. \n\nTommy is a playable character in the video game \"\", making him one of five playable characters from the films, Jason Voorhees, Roy Burns, Fox, and Sheldon \"Shelly\" Finkelstein (both Fox and Shelly are from \"Part III\") being the others. Thom Mathews, who portrayed Tommy Jarvis in \"\", reprised his role.\n\nThe game also features collectible cassette tapes known as the \"Tommy Tapes\" written by filmmaker Adam Green and starring voice actor and animator Chris Niosi as Tommy Jarvis which featured audio recordings of Tommy from the events just after \"Part 4\" through to after \"Part 6\", filling in some of the gaps between the films. It provides an explanation for \"Part 5\"'s ending where Tommy states that he dreamed he killed Pam. Tommy's claims of Jason Voorhees being the killer from the events of \"Parts 2\" through \"4\" are dismissed due to the logical absurdity of Jason being alive in spite of him drowning as a child, and the murders are instead blamed on an unidentified copycat killer. His claims of Jason rising from the grave in \"Part 6\" are further dismissed, and soon Tommy is blamed for exacerbating Jason's legend and attracting more copycats. Tommy is then sent to several mental institutions, including , New Orleans Psychiatric, and Smith’s Grove, before finally being committed to Springwood Mental Institution and is lacerating himself in his sleep, paranoid the authorities are trying to cover up Jason’s existence. The tapes also reveal the fate of Tommy's sister, explaining that she moved on from the experience and went off to college, but stopped talking to him after he was institutionalized in Springwood.\n\nThe character of Tommy Jarvis was initially conceived by writer Bruce Hidemi Sakow, who came in early during the film's pre-production. According to him, \n\nOriginally, Joseph Zito planned for Tommy to become the antagonist and \"new Jason\" in any subsequent \"Friday the 13th\" films created after the fourth. The ending of \"Friday the 13th: A New Beginning\" leads up to this, although due to the negative reaction to that film, the idea was dropped. According to Zito, the possibility of Tommy going the route of becoming \"the new Jason\" was his idea, as a type of insurance policy for a possible continuation of the film series, saying: \"It was my fault. No one at Paramount had any interest in making more films and Frank Mancuso, Sr. told me as much during the difficult editing process. Basically, they were kind of embarrassed by the films even though they were very profitable. It was my idea to film the ending with Tommy because I wanted to leave the door slightly open just in case. I never imagined that there would be so many sequels made after that though. None of us had any idea.\"\n\nAdam Marcus, director of \"\", has revealed that he had originally intended for the film's male protagonist Steven Freeman to be Tommy Jarvis, but could not include him because New Line Cinema did not own the rights to Tommy's character at that time and so was forced to write a new character and name for the film.\n\nTommy Jarvis was referenced in the script for \"Freddy vs Jason\", the dialogue insinuating that he's running a petition to have the reopening of Camp Crystal Lake annulated and is called a \"lunatic\" by an executive at the building site at the camp, but this dialogue ultimately never made it into the theatrical film. The producers of the 2009 \"Friday the 13th\" reboot considered using the Tommy character, but decided not to because they wanted to create their own mythology.\n\nCasting director Fern Champion says on the \"Crystal Lake Memories\" documentary that she felt that she and Corey Feldman clicked, but Corey was informed by his mother that the producers had concerns that he was too small to look believable in finishing Jason off, but got the role after showing them his prowess in wielding the machete. According to director Danny Steinmann, the casting for Tommy in \"A New Beginning\" went on till the eleventh hour: \"I went through fifty Tommys before we found John Shepherd. We didn't get this Tommy until the last day before we started filming. We were panic stricken. Everything hinged around this kid being sensitive and believable. If we had gone with the Tommy we were about to settle on, the picture would have been unreleasable.\"\n\nFor \"Jason Lives\", actor John Shepherd did not reprise his role from part 5 as he choose to abstain from it for personal reasons: \"I was at a crossroads in my life where I was trying to decide - do I really wanna pursue acting or, you know, is this the best use of my time and talents? So I made a conscious decision on part six: 'You know what, I'm gonna pass on this'.\" \"Jason Lives\"' writer/director Tom McLoughlin claims to not have been aware of why producer Frank Mancuso Jr. choose to not bring John Shepherd back for the role for \"Jason Lives\", but the latter states that he rejected the role indirectly by telling his agent to demand an extravagant salary for his continued participation. His replacement Thom Mathews had not seen \"A New Beginning\" until after he was cast, and claims that he thought the film was awful and wondered if he had made a mistake, but liked the script for \"Jason Lives\" so much that he decided to play the role anyway. In an interview, Mathews discussed his preparation for the role, stating:\n\nTommy has received considerably positive reviews from critics. In \"Horror Films of the 1980s, Volume 1\", John Kenneth Muir praised the character, stating:\n\nHe also notes the popularity of the fourth film being because of Tommy's debut in the series:\n\nIn \"Legacy of Blood: A Comprehensive Guide to Slasher Movies\", Jim Harper was rather mixed in terms of the character's performances. He criticized Corey Feldman's performance as Tommy in \"The Final Chapter\" stating, \"Only Corey Feldman disappoints, since his character is highly annoying and doesn't really fit into the picture.\" However he praised Thom Mathews' performance in \"Jason Lives\", calling him a \"great character\".\n\nMezco Toyz has released a statuette of both Tommy and Jason Voorhees, depicting the scene of the two battling each other underwater from \"\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2314045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314045", "title": "N59 road (Ireland)", "text": "N59 road (Ireland)\n\nThe N59 road is a national secondary road in Ireland. It commences in County Sligo, south of Sligo Town at the Belladrehid interchange with the N4 north of Ballysadare. The route circles around the west of Ireland, passing west from Sligo into County Mayo and through Ballina. The N59 continues around Mayo, proceeding indirectly to Westport. Continuing south through Mayo into County Galway, the road passes through the village of Leenaun. The 182-year-old bridge in the centre of the village, carrying the road across the River Lahill, collapsed in floods on 18 July 2007. Due to the local terrain and road network, the diversionary route for getting from the south of the village to Westport was 110 km long. A temporary bridge was opened eight days after the floods, on 27 July. It has since been replaced by a new bridge. \nSouth of Leenaun, the N59 proceeds southwest through Connemara to Clifden. From there, it returns east through Maam Cross and to Oughterard, from which it proceeds southeast to Galway city. The N59 ends at a junction with the N6 at \"Quincentenary Bridge\". \n\nAt , the N59 is the longest numbered road in Ireland.\n\nCo. Mayo\nBallina Orbital Route Project\nThe objective of the Ballina Orbital Route Project is to provide an orbital link around the town connecting all existing and future National Primary and National Secondary Roads, all existing Regional Roads and all existing Local Roads radiating from the town. The consequent benefit will be a reduction in traffic congestion due to traffic having the opportunity of avoiding the town centre. It will also serve to open up lands on the periphery of Ballina for future development.\nProject webpage\n\nBallina to Crossmolina\nThis scheme will provide either an up-grade of the existing road or an off-line new route that will serve to bypass the town of Crossmolina on its western terminus, will link the towns of Crossmolina and Ballina and finally integrate with the preferred route for the Ballina Orbital Route on its eastern terminus. The project will be approximately 13 km long with at-grade junctions where necessary providing opportunities to interact with the existing road network.\n\nCo. Galway\nMoycullen Bypass Project\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314048", "title": "John Antill", "text": "John Antill\n\nJohn Henry Antill, CMG, OBE (8 April 190429 December 1986) was an Australian composer best known for his ballet \"Corroboree\".\n\nAntill was born in Sydney in 1904, and was educated and trained in music at Trinity Grammar School, Sydney and St Andrew's Cathedral School. Upon leaving school in 1920, he was apprenticed to the New South Wales Government Railways. He left the railways five years later to study full-time at the New South Wales Conservatorium of Music under Alfred Hill. After graduation, he played in both the NSW State Orchestra and the Sydney Symphony Orchestra, and, from 1932 to 1934, he toured with the J. C. Williamson Imperial Opera Company as a tenor and a rehearsal conductor.\n\nIn 1936, he became assistant Music Editor with the Australian Broadcasting Commission (ABC). He remained with the ABC until his retirement in 1968, having taken up the position of ABC Federal Music Editor in the meantime.\n\nHis most famous work, \"Corroboree\", was first performed as a concert suite in 1946, conducted by Eugene Goossens. He based his composition on a real corroboree, which he witnessed in 1913 at La Perouse in Sydney. He had intended the work as a ballet, but it was not performed as such until 1950.\n\nThe 1950 ballet premiere, choreographed by Rex Reid, of this work was hailed as a \"coming-of-age\" milestone in Australian cultural life, although to modern eyes it appears a quaint and disconcerting period piece reflecting dated views of indigenous Australia. A new version of the ballet, performed in 1954, was choreographed by American-born dancer, choreographer and writer Beth Dean who, with her Australian husband Victor Carell, spent eight months in parts of central and northern Australia to capture a more authentic understanding. The National Museum of Australia holds a large collection of costumes, props and ephemera from the Dean production. Dean and Carell also wrote a biography of John Antill titled \"Gentle Genius\", published in 1987.\n\nIn 1971, Antill was appointed an Officer (OBE) of the Order of the British Empire for services to Australian music. In 1981, he was made a Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George (CMG). In 1985, the year before his death, he received an Honorary Doctorate in Creative Arts from the University of Wollongong.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314050", "title": "Mass media and politics in Japan", "text": "Mass media and politics in Japan\n\nThis article's focus is mass media and their interaction with politics in Japan.\n\nThe five largest and most influential national newspapers are Yomiuri Shimbun, Asahi Shimbun, Mainichi Shimbun, Sankei Shimbun, and Nihon Keizai Shimbun. There are also more than 100 local newspapers. The population, 99 percent literate, also consumes record numbers of books and magazines. The latter range from high-quality comprehensive general circulation intellectual periodicals such as Sekai (World), Chuo Koron (Central Review), and Bungei Shunju (Literary Annals) to sarariman manga (salaryman comics), comic books for adults that depict the vicissitudes and fantasies of contemporary office workers, and weeklies specializing in scandals. Japan probably also leads the world in the translation of works by foreign scholars and novelists. Most of the classics of Western political thought, such as \"The Republic\" by Plato and \"Leviathan\" by Thomas Hobbes, for example, are available in Japanese. \n\nNews programs and special features on television also give viewers detailed reports on political, economic, and social developments both at home and abroad. The sole, noncommercial public radio and television broadcasting network, the Japan Broadcasting Corporation (Nippon Hoso Kyokai--NHK) provides generally balanced coverage. Unlike their counterparts in the United States, however, Japanese newscasters on NHK and commercial stations usually confine themselves to relating events and did not offer opinions or analysis. \n\nThe major magazines and newspapers are vocal critics of government policies and take great pains to map out the personal and financial ties that hold the conservative establishment together. Readers are regularly informed of matrimonial alliances between families of top politicians, civil servants, and business leaders, which in some ways resemble those of the old European aristocracy. The important print media are privately owned. \n\nObservers, however, point out that the independence of the established press has been compromised by the pervasive \"press club\" system. Politicians and government agencies each have one of these clubs, which contain from 12 to almost 300 reporters from the different newspapers, magazines, and broadcast media. Club members are generally described as being closer to each other than they are to their employers. They also have a close and collaborative working relationship with the political figures or government agencies to which they are attached. There is little opportunity for reporters to establish a genuinely critical, independent stance because reporting distasteful matters might lead to exclusion from the club and thus inability to gain information and to write. Although the media have played a major role in exposing political scandals, some critics have accused the large newspapers, ostensibly oppositionist, of being little more than a conduit of government ideas to the people. Free-lance reporters, working outside the press club system, often made the real breakthroughs in investigative reporting. For example, a free-lance journalist published the first public accounts of Tanaka Kakuei's personal finances in a monthly magazine in 1974, even though the established press had access to this information.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314054", "title": "Pam Reed", "text": "Pam Reed\n\nPamela J. Reed (born February 27, 1961, Palmer, Michigan, United States) is an American ultrarunner who resides in Tucson, Arizona and Jackson, Wyoming. She is the race director for the Tucson Marathon.\n\nIn 2002, Reed was the first woman to become the overall winner of the Badwater Ultramarathon. She subsequently repeated as overall winner of the race in 2003. In 2002, her win also set the women's course record.\n\nIn 2003, she set the women's record for the USATF 24-hour track run, which she still holds.\n\nIn 2005, she completed a 300-mile run without sleep. She completed the run in slightly less than eighty hours. \n\nReed is the current female American record holder in six-day marathons after completing 490 miles in the Twelfth-Annual Self-Transcendence 6- & 10-day Race in New York City. She completed the Multi-day race on Saturday, May 2, 2009.\n\nReed is the author of the book \"The Extra Mile: One Woman's Personal Journey to Ultra-Running Greatness\" Rodale, Inc. ().\n"}
{"id": "2314056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314056", "title": "Doctor Fink", "text": "Doctor Fink\n\nMatt Fink, better known as Dr. Fink from Prince and the Revolution, is a keyboardist, producer, and songwriter. He has worked with artists, songwriters and producers, including The Time, Lipps Inc., The Jets, Vanity 6, David Z. Bobby Z. P. Diddy, The Rembrandts, Phil Solem, PC Munoz, 7 Aurelius, Steve Nathan, Shock G, Kris Vanderheyden and Marc Mozart. Fink has won 3 Grammys and 2 American Music Awards for his work.\n\nFink joined Prince’s band in 1978, which later became The Revolution. His work with The Revolution includes the 1984 album \"Purple Rain\", which has sold over 25 million copies worldwide. \n\nHis work with Prince includes co-writing credits on the songs \"Dirty Mind\", \"Computer Blue\", \"17 Days\", \"America\" and \"It's Gonna Be a Beautiful Night,\" as well as performing credits on the albums \"Dirty Mind\", \"Controversy\", 1999, \"Purple Rain\", \"Around the World in a Day\", \"Parade\", \"Sign \"O\" the Times\", \"Lovesexy, The Black Album, and Graffiti Bridge\".\n\nIn 1987 Fink opened his own studio facility in Minneapolis, now called “The Operating Room”, where he works on other projects such as his Sony Acid Loop Libraries titled \"Dr. Fink’s Funk Factory\" and \"Matt Fink’s StarView Session Keys\" which is also part of the quartet of the \"Artist Integrated Sample Libraries.\"\n\nAfter his tenure with Prince, he was hired as staff producer/engineer for Minneapolis based record label K-Tel/Dominion Entertainment, from 1991-1996. In 2001 he released the solo album \"Ultrasound\". Other credits include video game soundtracks for Headgames/Activision, work with King Show Games on both voiceover and music for various casino game machines, and various PBS documentaries. Fink has also written and produced various advertising spots.\n\nIn 2007, Fink signed an exclusive management deal with the German based management and production company, Mozart & Friends, where he worked on various projects for Universal Music Group, Warner Bros. and Sony Entertainment.\n\nFink is currently performing with The Revolution, who will have a song featured in the upcoming Netflix feature, \"Wine Country\" starring Amy Pohler, Maya Rudolph, Rachel Dratch, Ana Gasteyer, and Tina Fey. He is also the Director of Artist Relations for the music streaming service MyMyMusic, and has recently joined River Rock Studios as a staff Producer/Engineer.\n"}
{"id": "2314057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314057", "title": "James Carroll Beckwith", "text": "James Carroll Beckwith\n\nJames Carroll Beckwith (September 23, 1852 – October 24, 1917) was an American landscape, portrait and genre painter whose Naturalist style led to his recognition in the late nineteenth and very early twentieth century as a respected figure in American art.\n\nCarroll Beckwith, as he preferred to be known, was born in Hannibal, Missouri on September 23, 1852, the son of Charles and Melissa Beckwith. However, he grew up in Chicago where his father started a wholesale grocery business. In 1868, aged 16, he studied art at the Chicago Academy of Design under Walter Shirlaw until the great fire of 1871 destroyed everything (including much of the heart of the city). He then went to New York and studied at the National Academy of Design (of which he afterwards became a member) in New York City under Lemuel Wilmarth and later traveled on to Paris, staying there from November 1873 until 1878.\n\nIn Paris he took drawing courses with Adolphe Yvon and studied painting under Carolus Duran who in 1877 selected Beckwith and John Singer Sargent to help him with a mural for the Palais du Luxembourg. Returning to the United States in 1878, he gradually became a prominent figure in American art. His talents as a draftsman secured him a professorship at the Art Students League of New York, where he taught from 1878 to 1882 and from 1886 to 1887. As an artist, he concentrated mostly on portraits, figure studies, and detailed renderings of historical monuments, but he never lost his interest in decorative design. He married Bertha Hall on June 1, 1887, and his friend John Singer Sargent gave them a Venetian watercolor as a present.\n\nBeckwith took an active part in the formation of The Fine Arts Society, and was President of the National Free Art League, which attempted to secure the repeal of the American duty on works of art. Among his portraits are those of William Merritt Chase (1882), Miss Jordan (1883), Mark Twain, Theodore Roosevelt, Thomas Allibone Janvier, John Schofield and William M. Walton. He taught at the Art Students League of New York - where Violet Oakley was one of his students.\n\nBeckwith received many awards including an Honorable Mention at the Paris Exposition of 1889 and a Gold Medal at the Atlanta Exposition in 1895. He also won an award at the Exposition Universelle at Paris in 1899 for what is probably his most celebrated work, his 1886 portrait of William M. Walton. He won a gold medal at the Charleston Exposition in 1902 and exhibited at the St. Louis World's Fair in 1904 showing his painting \"The Nautilus\" along with a portrait of his wife. Carroll returned to Paris in 1893 to paint a number of murals and then returned to the United States to paint murals on one of the domes in the Liberal Arts Building at the World Columbian Exposition in Chicago later in 1893.\nHe lived in Italy from 1910 to 1914 and painted many en plein air studies of monuments, buildings, and landscapes.\n\nJames Carroll Beckwith died of a heart attack in his apartment at the Hotel Schuyler on West Forty-fifth Street in New York City on October 24, 1917, aged 65, after having taken a taxi cab ride with his wife in Central Park.\n\nHis papers, including his sketchbooks and the diaries he kept from 1871 until his death in 1917 are held by the National Academy of Design in New York City.\n\n"}
{"id": "2314058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314058", "title": "George Alexander Macfarren", "text": "George Alexander Macfarren\n\nSir George Alexander Macfarren (2 March 181331 October 1887) was an English composer and musicologist.\n\nGeorge Alexander Macfarren was born in London on 2 March 1813 to George Macfarren, a dancing-master, dramatic author and journalist, who later became the editor of the \"Musical World\", and Elizabeth Macfarren, \"née\" Jackson. At the age of seven, Macfarren was sent to Dr. Nicholas's school in Ealing, where his father was dancing-master; the school numbered among its alumni John Henry, Cardinal Newman and Thomas Henry Huxley. His health was poor, however, and his eyesight weak, so much so that he was given a large-type edition of the Bible and had to use a powerful magnifying-glass for all other reading. He was withdrawn from the school in 1823 to undergo a course of eye treatment. The treatment was unsuccessful, and his eyesight progressively worsened until he became totally blind in 1860. However, his blindness had little effect on his productivity. He overcame the difficulties posed by his lack of sight by employing an amanuensis in composition. One amanuensis was composer Oliveria Prescott.\n\nOn 27 September 1844, Macfarren married Clarina Thalia Andrae, subsequently known as Natalia Macfarren (1827–1916), an operatic contralto and pianist who was born in Lübeck. Trained at the Royal Academy of Music, she was successively a concert singer and singing teacher, as well as being a writer and a prolific translator of German poetry, songs (lieder) and operatic libretti into English. Her singing translation for the finale text of Beethoven's Symphony No. 9, the \"Ode to Joy\", became its most popular translation in England. She also composed for piano. His brother Walter Macfarren (28 Aug 1826–1905) was a pianist, composer and professor of the Royal Academy. Emma Maria Macfarren, the wife of another brother, John, was also a pianist and composer.\n\nMacfarren was knighted in 1883. He \"suffered from chronic bronchitis and a weak heart\" but refused to abate his working schedule, and died on 31 October 1887, at his house in Hamilton Terrace, St John's Wood. He is buried in Hampstead Cemetery.\n\nMacfarren began to study music when he was fourteen, under Charles Lucas. In 1829, at the age of sixteen, he entered the Royal Academy of Music, where he studied composition under Cipriani Potter as well as piano under William Henry Holmes and trombone with John Smithies. His ability to perform, however, was hindered by his poor eyesight and he soon concentrated upon composing only. In his first year at the Academy, Macfarren composed his first work, the Symphony in F minor.\n\nFrom 1834 to 1836 Macfarren taught at the Academy without a professorship; he was appointed a professor in 1837. He resigned in 1847 when his espousal of Alfred Day's new theory of harmony became a source of dispute between him and the rest of the Academy's faculty. Macfarren's eyesight had at that point deteriorated so significantly that he spent the next 18 months in New York to receive treatment from a leading oculist, but to no effect. He was re-appointed a professor at the Academy in 1851, not because the faculty had any greater love for Day's theories, but because they decided that free thought should be encouraged. He succeeded Sir William Sterndale Bennett as principal of the Academy in 1876. He was also appointed professor of music at Cambridge University in 1875, again succeeding Bennett.\n\nMacfarren founded the Handel Society which attempted to produce a collected edition of the works of George Frideric Handel (between 1843 and 1858).\n\nAmong his theoretical works was an analysis of Beethoven's \"Missa solemnis\" (described as Beethoven's \"Grand Service in D\", and published in 1854); and a textbook on counterpoint (1881).\n\nHis overture \"Chevy Chace\" was performed on 26 October 1843 by the Leipzig Gewandhaus Orchestra conducted by Felix Mendelssohn. Mendelssohn had heard it performed in London and wrote to the composer that he \"liked it very much\". After the Leipzig concert Mendelssohn wrote again to say \"Your overture went very well, and was most cordially and unanimously received by the public, the orchestra playing it with true delight and enthusiasm\". Richard Wagner also admired the peculiar and wildly passionate character of the piece (which he described as the \"Steeple Chase by MacFarrinc\" in his diary). Wagner also described the overture's composer as \"a pompous, melancholy Scotsman\".\n\nThe \"Chevy Chace\" overture and two of his symphonies have been recorded. Among Macfarren's operas were \"King Charles II\", produced at the Princess's Theatre in 1849 (Natalia Macfarren made her operatic debut in this production), and an adaptation of \"Robin Hood\" produced in 1860.\n\nHis oratorios brought him some popular and critical success. The most enduringly successful of these, \"St John the Baptist\", was first performed in 1873 at the Bristol Festival. \"The Resurrection\" premiered in 1876, \"Joseph\" in 1877 and \"King David\" in 1883.\n\nMacfarren also wrote chamber music, most notably the six string quartets that span over 40 years from 1834. Other chamber works include a piano trio in E minor, a piano quintet in G minor, sonatas for flute and violin, and three piano sonatas. Among his compositions of light music is a Romance and Barcarole for Concertina and Fortepiano written in 1856.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDuring his lifetime, Macfarren's music met with a mixed reception; \"his views were often considered dogmatic and reactionary, but, unlike Grove, his theoretical and analytical expertise was indisputable.\". One contemporary called Macfarren \"essentially a musical grammarian, engaged all his life long in settling the doctrine of the enclitic de.\" Those who thought highly of his work praised its originality and its tastefulness. According to a contemporary commentator, Macfarren \"had great originality of thought and, as a composer, would probably have had still greater success if his early composition studies had been formed on the more modern lines to which he afterwards became so devotedly attached.\" Salome's dance in \"St John the Baptist\" was praised for its avoidance of the salacious: \"The whole of the scene is very cleverly worked out, and the composer has avoided anything inappropriate in the music descriptive of the dance, that might be considered out of place in an oratorio.\" Others, however, criticized the oratorio, arguing that \"with all its very great and solid merit, can be said to be original in style only in virtue of the logical results of certain theories of harmony held by its composer.\" By the early twentieth century, Macfarren's works were no longer performed, a fact which the Worshipful Company of Musicians attributed to a lack of genius on Macfarren's part: \"Never was more earnest composer, more prolific writer; never did man strive more zealously for the art of his country; yet Heaven had endowed him only with talent and not genius.\"\n\nModern commentators generally consider Macfarren to be \"the most eminent representative\" of conservatism in orchestration. His \"Ajax\" has been called \"professionally composed if uninspiring\" and his writing for trumpet singled out as \"conventional ... although he does make liberal use of the out-of-tune harmonics, especially b [flat]', he rarely uses notes outside the harmonic series and rarely writes the first trumpet part above the first treble staff.\" Macfarren's music is \"capable of graceful lyricism, [but] what may be a desire to avoid cliches in the songs leads him at times to an unexpected angularity of line that seems more awkward than fresh. However, Macfarren's \"St John the Baptist\" has been praised as \"an original and imaginative piece in which the shadow of Mendelssohn, so prominent since the appearance of \"Elijah\" in 1846, is only occasionally perceptible.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314064", "title": "Los Angeles Dons", "text": "Los Angeles Dons\n\nThe Los Angeles Dons were an American football team in the All-America Football Conference from 1946 to 1949, and played its home games in the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum. The Dons were the first professional football team to play a regular season game in Los Angeles, California, two weeks before the first game of the rival Los Angeles Rams of the National Football League, who had moved from Cleveland.\n\nIn 1946, a new professional football league was launched to do battle with the long-established National Football League (NFL). This new league, the All-America Football Conference (AAFC), included eight teams — an Eastern Division with three teams based in the state of New York and another in Miami, and a Western Division with teams in Cleveland, Chicago, San Francisco, and Los Angeles. The AAFC's southern California franchise, which was to compete directly with the newly-relocated Rams of the NFL, was known as the Los Angeles Dons.\n\nThe leader of the ownership group was Fernando Gonzalez III, a California businessman & longtime football fan. Other owners included Hollywood notables Louis B. Mayer, Bob Hope, Bing Crosby, and actor Don Ameche.\n\nThe Dons' head coach was \"Dud\" DeGroot, a Stanford football player who had gone on to earn a PhD from that institution. He was the head coach of the NFL's Washington Redskins in 1944 and 1945 before jumping over to the rival AAFC for its debut 1946 season.\n\nThe Dons shared the Coliseum with the Rams for home games. Although never filling the mammoth facility, the club made a show of offering vast numbers of tickets for sale at reasonable prices, including 40,000 reserved seats for each home contest priced at $2.50, 15,000 general admission seats costing $1.50, and 8,000 children's tickets priced at just sixty cents.\n\nThe team played its first regular season home game in 1946 on against the Brooklyn Dodgers on September 13 in before a Friday night crowd of 18,955 — the first time professional football had ever been played in the Coliseum.\n\nFor most of their existence, the Dons compiled an average record, and never qualified for the AAFC playoffs. This was mainly because they were in the same division as the league's two most powerful teams, the Cleveland Browns and San Francisco 49ers. Unlike the Browns, 49ers, and Baltimore Colts, the Dons were not one of the AAFC teams that remained intact when the AAFC merged with the NFL in : they merged with the crosstown Rams of the older league after the 1949 season.\n\nOne Dons player, William Radovich, formerly of the NFL's Detroit Lions, filed a lawsuit against the NFL after being blacklisted from playing or working in it afterwards. It led to the Supreme Court ruling, in the case of \"Radovich v. National Football League\", that professional football, unlike baseball, was subject to antitrust laws.\n\n!Totals || 25 || 27 || 2 || ||\n\n"}
{"id": "2314065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314065", "title": "Jukeboxer", "text": "Jukeboxer\n\nJukeboxer is the moniker of the American, Brooklyn-based musician, Noah Wall. His music is put together digitally from recorded sounds, usually him playing an instrument. Many of his songs are the products of collaborations with other musicians. He has released two albums, a single and an EP.\n\n"}
{"id": "2314084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314084", "title": "James B. Adams", "text": "James B. Adams\n\nJames Blackburn Adams (December 21, 1926 – April 25, 2020) was an American attorney, politician, and two-time associate director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.\n\nJames B. Adams was born in Corsicana, Texas in 1926. He served in the U.S. Army during World War II as a Japanese translator, before returning to Texas to obtain a Bachelor of Arts degree from Baylor University and a law degree from Baylor Law School. \n\nIn January 2007, Adams received the Baylor Distinguished Alumni Award.\n\nAfter graduating from law school, Adams became a prosecuting attorney. He was elected to the Texas House of Representatives in 1950. Adams took office in 1951 as a Democrat, and resigned his seat later that year to join the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Adams was succeeded in the Texas House by W. H. Gant.\n\nAs an FBI special agent, Adams served in Seattle, San Francisco, and the Administrative Services Division. In 1959, he was appointed assistant special agent in charge of Minneapolis and in 1972 he was promoted to special agent in charge of San Antonio, Texas. In 1973, he was appointed assistant director of the Office of Planning and Evaluation and became assistant to the director/deputy associate director for investigations the following year.\n\nIn early 1977, Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation Clarence M. Kelley announced his intention to retire. On September 30, 1977, President Jimmy Carter nominated Judge Frank Minis Johnson of the United States District Court for the Middle District of Alabama to the post. However Johnson developed severe health problems and Carter withdrew the nomination in December. Carter nominated then-judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, William H. Webster, in January 1978. Adams served as Acting Director of the FBI from Kelley's retirement on February 15 to 23, 1978, when Webster was sworn in. Adams retired from the FBI on May 11, 1979. He then returned to Texas, where he served as Director of the Texas Department of Public Safety from 1980 to 1987.\n\nAdams was married to Ione LaRae Winistorfer from September 1955 to his death on April 25, 2020, aged 93. Flags on Texas state and federal government buildings were lowered to half-staff to commemorate Adams.\n"}
{"id": "2314090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314090", "title": "Italian for Beginners", "text": "Italian for Beginners\n\nItalian for Beginners () is a 2000 Danish romantic comedy film written and directed by Lone Scherfig, and starring Anders W. Berthelsen, Lars Kaalund and Peter Gantzler, together with Ann Eleonora Jørgensen, Anette Støvelbæk and Sara Indrio Jensen. The film was made by the austere principles of the Dogme 95 movement, including the use of handheld video cameras and natural lighting, and is known as \"Dogme XII\". However, in contrast to most Dogme films which are harsh and serious in tone, \"Italian for Beginners\" is a light-hearted comedy. It was made on a $600,000 budget, and went on to gross over 27 times that.\n\nIn May 2010, it was officially revealed that Scherfig \"borrowed\" part of her plot from the Irish novel \"Evening Class\" by Maeve Binchy. Zentropa agreed to pay a non-disclosed compensation to Binchy.\n\nAndreas, a widowed pastor, arrives in a Danish suburb to take over religious duties from the previous pastor who, due to a crisis of faith after his own wife's death, has become irreligious and even punched the organist causing him to be hospitalized. Believing his stay will be temporary Andreas stays in the local hotel where he meets one of the employees, Jørgen Mortensen, who is suffering a crisis as he has been asked to fire the temperamental Hal-Finn who works in the hotel restaurant and is also his best friend.\n\nHal-Finn goes to visit hairdresser Karen and is immediately attracted to her, though his visit is cut short when she must go to the hospital to attend to her alcoholic mother.\n\nMeanwhile clumsy baker Olympia tends to her disabled and abusive father, who constantly berates her. Olympia decides to join a beginner Italian class in order to feel closer to her Italian mother however the first night she joins the instructor dies. Olympia returns home to find that her own father has died as well. Sometime later she receives the call that her estranged mother has died as well. Showing up to her funeral she meets Karen and the two discover that they are sisters and that their parents split them up when they divorced. In order to protect Olympia, Karen does not tell her about the fact that their mother was not Italian and was an alcoholic.\n\nAfter finally being fired for being rude to customers Hal-Finn becomes the Italian teacher and Olympia persuades both Andreas and her sister to join. Karen and Hal-Finn begin a romantic affair but during Christmas Karen overhears Hal-Finn disparaging her mother and becomes angry calling their relationship off.\n\nJørgen Mortensen approaches Andreas for advice about his impotence and his trouble talking to Hal-Finn's Italian friend Giulia and decides to ask her out for a walk.\n\nIn the meantime Olympia receives a letter from the bank telling her of a massive inheritance from her father. She decides to spend it taking the Italian class to Venice. In Venice Jørgen proposes to Giulia who accepts, Karen forgives Hal-Finn after he cuts off his too-long bangs and Andreas suggests that Olympia, whose klutzy behaviour has caused her to be fired from 43 jobs, come to work as a chorister. He then reveals that he plans to stay in the parish.\n\n\nOn review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 88% based on 85 reviews, and an average rating of 7.2/10. The website's critical consensus reads, \"Unlike many romantic comedies, the charming \"Italian for Beginners\" feels natural and genuinely heart-warming.\" On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 77 out of 100, based on 28 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\".\n\nThe film won the Jury Grand Prix Silver Bear at the Berlin Film Festival, the Golden Spike Award for the best film of the year at the Seminci film festival in Valladolid, Spain, and the Audience Award at the Warsaw International Film Festival in Poland. Peter Gantzler won the award for Best Actor at the Seminci festival. The film also won the Gold Dolphin (Best Film) at the Festroia International Film Festival in 2001.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314091", "title": "New York Yankees (AAFC)", "text": "New York Yankees (AAFC)\n\nThe New York Yankees were a professional American football team that played in the All-America Football Conference (AAFC) from 1946 to 1949. The team played in Yankee Stadium in the Bronx and often played in front of sold-out crowds . They were owned by Dan Topping, who transferred the team from the NFL Brooklyn Dodgers, retaining many of the same players. The team's coach was Ray Flaherty, who had coached the Washington Redskins in the early 1940s. Former NFL player Jim Barber served as an assistant coach under Flaherty.\n\nThe Yankees appeared in the 1946 AAFC championship game, but lost to the Cleveland Browns by a score of 14–9. The same two teams appeared in the championship game the following year, with the Browns winning again 14–3.\n\nBefore the 1949 season, the Brooklyn Dodgers football team folded and merged into the Yankees, which became the Brooklyn-New York Yankees, but this was the final season of the AAFC, which was then absorbed by the NFL. The Yankees players were divided between the New York Giants and New York Bulldogs, who played as the New York Yanks starting in 1950.\n\n\n!Totals || 35 || 17 || 2\n"}
{"id": "2314094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314094", "title": "Lorton, Cumbria", "text": "Lorton, Cumbria\n\nLorton, a parish in the district of Allerdale of the English county of Cumbria, consists of two adjacent villages: Low Lorton and High Lorton. Both nestle at the northern end of the Vale of Lorton, surrounded by fells such as Grasmoor, Hopegill Head and Whiteside. They are about 4 miles (6.5 km) from Cockermouth, which gives access to the main A66 road. Other nearby places include Loweswater and Brigham.\n\nLorton is relatively untouched by tourism, although many tourists pass through on the way to the Buttermere valley. Nevertheless, there are several hill walks available. For instance, Hopegill Head can be climbed from High Lorton and Fellbarrow from Low Lorton. Of interest are the 12th-century St Cuthbert's Church and the 1663 pele tower, but the latter is not open to public. Lorton's ancient Yew Tree is the subject of a poem by Wordsworth.\n\nThe Whinlatter Pass road connects Lorton with Braithwaite. The main road passing through Lorton links Cockermouth with Buttermere and Loweswater.\n\nThe villages consist of 114 households, with an area of 5,501 acres (2226 ha). Lorton also has a small primary school, St Cuthbert's Church), a newly re-opened shop and coffee bar , a tennis club. and an award-winning public house, \"The Wheatsheaf Inn\". The village has had a community in Fairfax County, Virginia, United States, named after it.\n\nAt the 2001 census, Lorton had a population of 250, 114 male and 136 female. The population is dominated by two age groups – 45–64 (71 persons) and 25–44 (61 persons). The mean age of population in the area is 44.72 years. These figures changed only slightly at the 2011 Census.\n\nLorton is fairly isolated; residents have to travel on average of 17 miles (28 km) to their work places; 102 people out of the 250 aged 16–74 are economically active and only 6 unemployed.\n\nThe second element in the name \"Lorton\" is clearly from the Old English \"tūn\", meaning farmstead or village'. The first remains enigmatic, but experts have suggested it is from an Old Norse river name \"Hlóra\", meaning roaring, parallel with the Norwegian \"Lora\". The roaring may refer either to the Whit Beck or the River Cocker.\n\nIn 1811, Lorton was at the peak of its prosperity and population due to high demand on agricultural products as England was recovering from the Napoleonic Wars (1803–1815). The majority of residents were employed in agriculture across the six farms, including one attached to the 17th-century New House. The farms were powered by fast-flowing tributaries of the River Cocker, which runs the length of the valley. Most of houses and cottages in Lorton started off as barns and mills. Church records indicate a post-war depression from 1816 to 1830, with a population decrease of about 50 people and the number of marriages decreased.\n\nThe firm of Jennings Brewery was set up in Lorton in 1828 by John Jennings and brewed here exclusively until 1874.\n\nLorton Park is a Grade II Listed Regency House owned in the 19th century by Richard Harbord, a Liverpool shipping magnate who is buried in the parish church. In 1863, Prince Arthur visited Lorton Park and planted a commemorative chestnut tree in the gardens.\n\nThe novelist and agricultural writer and activist Doreen Wallace (1897–1989) was born in Lorton.\n\nLorton was mentioned in the \"Imperial Gazetteer of England and Wales\" (1870–1872) by John Marius Wilson, who described it as \"a village, a township, and a parish in Cockermouth district, Cumberland\". Wilson gave some early key statistics on the value of real property (£3,288), the head count (456) and the area (5264 acres, 2130 ha). Lorton was mentioned some 15 years later in the \"Gazetteer of the British Isles\" (1887) by John Bartholomew, whose figures show some changes: the population lower by 59 at 397 and the area higher 54 acres at 5318 acres (2152 ha).\n\nWilliam Wordsworth, the famous poet born in Cockermouth, immortalised the Lorton Yew Tree in his poem \"Yew Trees\" in 1804. The tree is calculated to be at least 1000 years old, but it was severely damaged by a storm shortly after the poem was written.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314101", "title": "Norman Charles Miller", "text": "Norman Charles Miller\n\nNorman Charles Miller (born October 2, 1934) is an American journalist who worked for \"The Wall Street Journal\".\n\nMiller was born in Pittsburgh and attended Pennsylvania State University, where he earned his Bachelor of Arts in 1956. Miller won a Pulitzer Prize for Journalism in 1964 for his coverage of the scandal the unfolded around Tino De Angelis. Miller's reporting became the basis for his book, \"The Great Salad Oil Swindle\" published in 1965.\n\nHe was chief of the \"Journal\"'s Washington bureau.\n\n"}
{"id": "2314115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314115", "title": "Maxine Jones", "text": "Maxine Jones\n\nMaxine Jones (born January 16, 1962 or 1966) (sources differ), is an American singer-songwriter and actress. Jones is best known as a founding member of the R&B/Pop vocal group En Vogue, one of the world's best-selling girl groups of all time. She sang lead vocals on the group's signature singles \"My Lovin' (You're Never Gonna Get It)\" and \"Don't Let Go (Love)\", both of which garnered international success and sold over a million copies. Throughout her career, Jones has sold over 20 million records with En Vogue. Her work has earned her several awards and nominations, including two American Music Awards, a Billboard Music Award, four MTV Video Music Awards, and four Soul Train Music Awards.\n\nIn 1988, Jones was chosen along with Dawn Robinson and Cindy Herron to be in a three-woman girl group by producers Denzil Foster and Thomas McElroy. After adding Terry Ellis to the line-up, the group became a quartet and chose the name En Vogue. They began recording their debut album in 1989 and finished in 1990. In 1990, En Vogue released their first single \"Hold On\", which became a number one single on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart. Later that year, the group released their debut album \"Born to Sing\", which sold a million copies the United States.\n\nThe group released their second album \"Funky Divas\" in 1992, which sold over 3.5 million copies in the United States. The album's lead single \"My Lovin' (You're Never Gonna Get It)\", which features Jones on lead vocals, peaked at number two on the Billboard Hot 100 and number one on the R&B chart. \"Give It Up, Turn It Loose\", lead completely by Jones, was released as the album's fourth single. The song peaked at number fifteen on the \"Billboard\"'s Hot 100, and received a nomination for a Grammy Award for Best R&B Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocals at 36th Annual Grammy Awards. Jones also shares lead vocals on one of the album's top-charting singles \"Free Your Mind\". \"Free Your Mind\" won two MTV Video Music Awards, for \"Best R&B Video\" and \"Best Dance Video\". En Vogue released an EP in the fall of 1993, entitled \"Runaway Love\". The lead single \"Whatta Man\", featuring co-lead vocals by Jones and a collaboration with Salt-N-Pepa, peaked in the top-ten on the Billboard charts and sold over a million copies. In 1995, En Vogue was featured on the single \"Freedom (Theme from Panther)\".\n\nIn 1996, En Vogue released \"Don't Let Go (Love)\" with Jones singing co-lead vocals of the song. The song was featured on the soundtrack to the motion picture \"Set It Off\". Released in the autumn, it became the group's biggest hit to date going number one worldwide. It also sold over 1.8 million copies worldwide and became certified platinum by the RIAA. In response to the large commercial success of \"Don't Let Go (Love)\", the group steadfastly went to work on its third album. As the album was nearing completion, Robinson chose to leave the group in April 1997 after difficult contractual negotiations reached a stalemate. The ending result saw En Vogue re-recording their third album with Jones singing lead vocals on more of the songs. In June 1997, the group released their third studio album \"EV3\", which went platinum. In 2000, they released their fourth album, \"Masterpiece Theatre\". The following year, Jones left En Vogue to focus on family and was replaced by Amanda Cole. After the release of En Vogue's fifth album, Jones returned to the group. In late 2004, Jones toured with En Vogue while Cindy was on maternity leave and continued to perform with En Vogue until April 2012.\n\nOn September 26, 2011, Ellis, Jones, and Herron released a single \"I'll Cry Later\" from their forthcoming album that was planned for a December release. Negotiations for the album release resulted in Jones leaving En Vogue, which was discussed with Robinson on Access Hollywood nearly a year later on October 17, 2012.\n\nIn October 2012, Jones and Dawn Robinson appeared on Access Hollywood to announce they are forming a new girl group called Heirs to the Throne. The duo launched their website, Twitter, and Facebook for the new group. They also performed at several venues with Shaunté Usual as their third member. The following year, Robinson and Jones parted ways and Jones went on to form her own group called \"En Vogue to the Max\". It was later announced that the former group mates Cindy Herron and Terry Ellis sued Jones for use of the En Vogue name and demanding one million dollars for damages. However, Ellis and Herron could not demonstrate harm done to the company from Jones' use of the name. Robinson participated as a witness in the trial but ultimately stated that she was not directly involved in the dispute, as she had surrendered her rights to use the name herself when she departed from the LLC years earlier. She also appeared as a judge in season two's Paramount Idol, alongside Bruce Flohr and Andy Waldeck.\n\nIn 2014, Jones began recording her first solo album with producer DJ King Assassin entitled, \"To the Max\". Jones released a single \"Didn't I\" on May 15, 2014. In 2015, Jones began her own radio show called \"Max Radio\". In 2016, Jones went on tour for the stage-play \"Suspicion, Lies, and Death by Pies!\" by Teresa D. Ballard.\n\nIn March 2017, Jones announced the forthcoming release of her autobiographical self-help book \"A Smart Girls Guide to Girl Groups\" in the summer through Welstar Publications, LLC. In June 2017, Jones released a cover version of the \"Don't Let Go (Love)\" as a duet with Australian singer Greg Gould. \n\nIn October 2019, Jones reunited with En Vogue for an on-stage performance to salute music industry executive Sylvia Rhone at the City of Hope Gala 2019. This marked the first time all five members performed together. In late 2019, Jones and Dawn Robinson began touring under the group name The Funky Divas.\n\nMaxine's vocal range spans three octaves and two notes. She is a mezzo-soprano. As a member of En Vogue, Jones was often credited for harmonizing the low parts of their songs. Her lowest note was recorded on the song \"Love Won't Take Me Out\" wherein she sang a G. Her highest note was recorded on Silent Night (Happy Holiday Mix)\", whereas she sang a B note. Jones often took on heavy songwriting in the group. She also sang lead vocals on their biggest hits including: \"Whatta Man\", \"Don't Let Go (Love)\", \"Give It Up, Turn It Loose\", and their signature song \"My Lovin' (You're Never Gonna Get It)\".\n\nJones names Chaka Khan as her major musical influence. Her musical influences also include Gladys Knight, Aretha Franklin, Tina Turner, Patti LaBelle. Jones' style is rooted in R&B and classic soul music, supplemented by bass and programmed drumbeats by Denzil Foster, Thomas McElroy.\n\n"}
{"id": "2314118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314118", "title": "Aston Martin DBR9", "text": "Aston Martin DBR9\n\nThe Aston Martin DBR9 is a racing car built by Aston Martin Racing, debuting in 2005 and racing actively in international sportscar racing until the end of GT1 category in 2011. The name DBR9 is derived from the original 24 Hours of Le Mans-winning DBR1 car, named for then-owner David Brown, which not only won the 24 Hour race in 1959 but also the World Sportscar title. The car is most famous for taking two LMGT1 class wins at Le Mans 24 Hours (2007 and 2008) by the Aston Martin Racing factory team.\n\nBased on the Aston Martin DB9 road car, the DBR9 retains the chassis, engine block, and cylinder heads of the road car's V12 engine. The rest of the car is re-engineered for high performance competition use. The DBR9's bodywork is a blend of optimum aerodynamic performance and the styling of the DB9 road car. All the body panels are constructed from carbon fibre composite (except the roof) to minimize the weight of the car. To complete the aerodynamic body, the bottom of the car is flat all the way from the front to the rear diffuser. To optimise rear downforce a carbon fibre wing has been added. The engine develops and . The DBR9 goes from 0 to in 3.4 seconds, and 0 to in 6.4 seconds.\n\nFor the 2007 24 Hours of Le Mans, Prodrive made modifications to the DBR9 design to not only improve performance, but also to increase driver comfort in the cockpit. Due to new regulations put into place by Le Mans organizers, the DBR9 required the installation of an air conditioning unit, to prevent overstressing drivers. Prodrive went further by putting a heat-resistant white roof on all new cars to assist in keeping cockpit temperatures down. Performance modifications included the removal of two, now immaterial, cooling vents from the bonnet of the car.\n\nThe DBR9 won the Sebring 12 Hours for its LMGT1 category in 2005, but came third in Le Mans 24 Hour behind arch-rivals Corvette Racing due to fuel problems. In 2006, the DBR9 was unable to repeat its success at Sebring, finishing second behind a Corvette. A similar situation occurred at Le Mans as well. Despite not winning Sebring and Le Mans, Aston Martin Racing regularly challenged Corvette Racing for victory in the rest of the American Le Mans Series schedule, with victories at Lime Rock Park, Miller Motorsports Park, Mosport, Petit Le Mans, and Mazda Raceway Laguna Seca. Aston Martin capped their 2006 ALMS season by finishing second in the GT1 Manufacturer's Championship, earning the factory team an automatic entry to the 2007 24 Hours of Le Mans.\n\nIn the Le Mans Endurance Series, Larbre Compétition took the Team's Championship, with victories at the 1000 Kilometres of Istanbul and 1000 Kilometres of the Nurburgring, a second-place finish at the 1000 Kilometres of Jarama, and a fifth-place finish at the 1000 Kilometres of Donington.\n\nThe DBR9 came into the 2006 FIA GT Championship being title contender favourites, but the season was somewhat lacklustre with only two victories at Mugello and Dubai. The Phoenix Racing Aston Martin DBR9 narrowly missed out on victory at the 24 Hours of Spa-Francorchamps. BMS Scuderia Italia cited a problem with finding the right tyre compound with their Pirellis as the factor for their lack of success.\n\nFor 2007, Aston Martin was finally able to overcome their woes at Le Mans, securing the GT1 class victory for the #009 Aston Martin Racing DBR9. Larbre's DBR9 would also manage third place in class. The teams running DBR9s managed to finish every car entered. To celebrate that historic victory, Aston Martin built a very limited edition of the DB9 called the DB9 LM (Le Mans), which featured a unique color, called the Sarthe Silver (named to the track where the Le Mans racing is held), also DBS clear taillights, specific wheels, Magnum silver meshes and crossbar, Sport Pack as standard, a specific interior with red stitching and tertre rouge facia trim. All cars were individually numbered and they are very sought-after today.\n\nLater in 2007, Aston Martin launched another limited production, the DBS road car which has many styling cues taken from the DBR9 in conjunction with the James Bond film \"Casino Royale\". Aston Martin Racing's DBR9s raced 2006 and 2007 under the numbers 007 and 009, in honour of James Bond. Unlike the DB9 LM, which was an ultra-exclusive (only 60 built) cosmetic package, the DBS brought many technology from the racing world. A lot of carbon fiber and aluminium used in the body, a serious power upgrade to the engine and a new interior.\n\nIn 2008, while Larbre and Scuderia Italia moved on from Aston Martin, Prodrive continued to field a two-car factory team at the 24 Hours of Le Mans. The #009 numbered car, with the new Gulf Oil sponsored paint scheme, driven by Darren Turner, Antonio Garcia and David Brabham, won its class.\n\nA Le Mans-spec DBR9 participated in the 2009 Super GT season, marking Aston Martin's debut in the series.\n\nThe Aston Martin DBR9 was last run by two customers team in the FIA GT1 World Championship. In the past, there were up to three factory teams and the car has also been sold to customers for private use in various racing series, such as the American Le Mans Series, Le Mans Series, FIA GT Championship, FFSA GT Championship, and Super GT.\n\n\n\nA total of 16 DBR9 chassis were made including a few upgraded chassis' over the five years it has raced so far.\n\nThe first DBR9 chassis to be built and raced at Le Mans in 2005 under Aston Martin Racing, qualified on pole and finished 3rd in class. In 2005, it also competed in the 12 Hours of Sebring, winning the GT1 class and finishing fourth overall. In 2006, Larbre Compétition only raced this chassis at the Le Mans Series but, in 2007 they raced it in the FFSA GT Championship and the 2007 24 Hours of Le Mans.\n\nThis chassis competed in the 2010 FIA GT1 World Championship season and 2011 FIA GT1 World Championship season with the Hexis AMR team, eventually winning the 2011 Team's championship.\n\nAnother factory Aston Martin Racing DBR9 that only picked up one class win and best overall finish of second. Raced in the 2011 FIA GT1 World Championship season for Hexis AMR as Car number 4.\n\nEntered by Aston Martin Racing for the 2006 24 Hours of Le Mans and competing in the full 2006 American Le Mans Series season and got two class wins. Also raced by Larbre Compétition at the 2007 24 Hours of Le Mans.\n\nRaced by Team Modena in 2006 and then in 2008 by Strakka Racing who raced at the 2008 24 Hours of Le Mans under the Vitaphone Racing Team banner. Achieved one class win in the LMS in 2006.\n\nRaced by Bell Motorsports in the 2008 American Le Mans Series season. No class wins, 4 podiums out of 6 races entered.\n\nRaced by BMS Scuderia Italia under the name Aston Martin Racing BMS. Raced a full 2007 FIA GT Championship season.\n\nAnother Aston Martin Racing BMS car. No podiums or class wins despite entering a full 2006 FIA GT Championship season.\n\nRaced by Aston Martin Racing in the 2006 American Le Mans Series season and the 2008 24 Hours of Le Mans where it won in the GT1 class. Also raced by BMS Scuderia Italia in the 2007 FIA GT Championship season.\n\nRaced by BMS Scuderia Italia at the 2006 and 2007 FIA GT Championship seasons where it picked no wins. Written off at the 24 Hours of Spa in 2007.\n\nOnly raced at the 2007 24 Hours of Le Mans where it won in the GT1 class and finished fifth overall.\n\nRaced under privateer teams under Russian Age Racing who also raced alongside Cirtek Motorsport in 2005 and 2006 who picked up two wins. It was then owned by Team Modena who raced it in 2007 and 2008 including appearances at Le Mans, and Le Mans Series, gaining 4 victories.\n\nScheduled to race at the 2006 Mil Milhas Brasileiras under Capuava Racing Team but had engine problems in practice.\n\nOnly raced by Jetalliance Racing from 2006 right up to the 2009 24 Hours of Le Mans. In the three years it picked up 4 wins.\n\nRaced by Phoenix racing in a full 2006 FIA GT Championship season and only raced once in 2007. It only achieved one win but seven podiums.\n\nAnother DBR9 raced by Jetalliance Racing including three wins and four podiums in the 2008 FIA GT Championship season.\n\nRaced by Gigawave Motorsport in 2008 and picked up five podiums. It was meant to race at the 2009 24 Hours of Le Mans but Gigawave ditched the DBR9 to focus on the Nissan GT-R GT1 programme. The car was used in Gigawave's first Le Man Series race of 2009, the final round at Silverstone, where it won the GT1 class.\n\nBuilt for the 2010 FIA GT1 World Championship season; it raced in the early part of the season. It was also entered for the 1000 km of Spa, where it was extensively damaged in an accident.\n\n"}
{"id": "2314123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314123", "title": "Against the Law (album)", "text": "Against the Law (album)\n\nAgainst the Law is the fifth release, and fifth studio album, from the Christian metal band Stryper, released on August 21, 1990. Three singles and videos were released for this album including \"Shining Star\" (an Earth, Wind & Fire cover), \"Two Time Woman\" and \"Lady\" but received minimal airplay.\n\nThis album marked a change in the musical and visual direction of the band. Gone were the yellow and black spandex outfits, the bold evangelical lyrics and the original band logo with Isaiah 53:5. In their place were leather outfits, and lyrics more focused on rock n' roll and relationships, although arguably from a Christian worldview. The album sold poorly compared to the band's previous gold and platinum releases.\n\nAll songs by Michael Sweet except where noted\n\nStryper\n\nAdditional musicians\n\nProduction\n\nA limited edition version of the album was also released that included a 14-minute interview with the band.\n\nTim Gaines said the album was titled \"Against the Law\" because it was, \"our response to these religious folks who Christ said \"They swallow a camel and strain on a gnat.\" In other words: in response to the criticism from Christians protesting against them.\n"}
{"id": "2314126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314126", "title": "Norm Van Lier", "text": "Norm Van Lier\n\nNorman Allen Van Lier III (April 1, 1947 – February 26, 2009) was an NBA basketball player and television broadcaster who spent the majority of his career with the Chicago Bulls.\n\nNorman Van Lier was born in East Liverpool, Ohio to Helen and Norm Sr., who worked in a steel mill for 31 years. He was raised, along with three brothers and a sister, in Midland, Pennsylvania. Van Lier had three other brothers who died after birth; he named one of them Elgin Baylor Van Lier I. Van Lier would look back fondly to his childhood playing tackle football with a taped coffee can for a ball due to their circumstances. He would later credit this upbringing in forming his famed work ethic later in life.\n\nVan Lier was a member of the 1965 Midland High School Leopards, considered by many to be one of the greatest high school basketball teams of all time, finishing 28-0 and easily winning the Pennsylvania State Championship. One of Van Lier's teammates was future NBA player Simmie Hill. During weekends, Van Lier would hitchhike to the playgrounds in Harlem, once even playing with Billy Cunningham.\n\nVan Lier was also a co-captain of his football team, where he played both quarterback and safety. He was recruited to play for several colleges, but none allowed him to play his desired position of quarterback. Van Lier had received offers to play professional baseball as well, after starring on his high school and county all-star teams.\n\nOn June 21, 2008, he was inducted into the WPIAL Hall of Fame. \"Western Pennsylvania is football country, but my years are considered the golden era of basketball not only in the state but maybe the country,\" Van Lier said that night. \"Uniontown, Midland, Schenley and Ambridge could play with anybody, anytime and in any era in the country.\"\n\nVan Lier's modest 6'1\" stature and his emphasis on defense kept him under the radar of stardom, and he was not recruited by major basketball powers. He attended Saint Francis University of Pennsylvania, where he eventually emerged as a standout point guard. He graduated from Saint Francis University in 1969.\n\nThe Chicago Bulls selected Van Lier in the third round of the 1969 NBA draft, but immediately traded him to the Cincinnati Royals, with whom he led the NBA in assists in 1971. The Bulls then reacquired Van Lier during the 1971–72 season, and he remained with the Bulls until 1978, appearing in three All-Star games (1974, 1976, 1977) over the course of six seasons.\n\nNicknamed \"Stormin' Norman\" for his tenacity and aggression, Van Lier was one of the most popular Bulls players of the 1970s. During his ten-year career, Van Lier was named to three NBA All-Defense First Teams and five NBA All-Defense Second Teams. He was named to the All-NBA Second Team in 1974. Van Lier was waived by the Bulls in October 1978.\n\nVan Lier held the record for the longest field goal in NBA history (84 feet) for 24 years until Baron Davis broke the record on November 17, 2001 (89 feet).\n\nAfter playing briefly with the Milwaukee Bucks, he retired in 1979 with career totals of 8,770 points and 5,217 assists.\n\nVan Lier served as a color analyst on Bulls radio broadcasts from 1980 to 1982. In 1989 he was the assistant coach of the Worcester Counts in the World Basketball League. From 1992 to 2009, he was a television pre-game and post-game analyst for Chicago Bulls games. He frequently appeared on other Chicago television programs to discuss the Bulls, and at one point co-hosted a sports talk radio show.\n\nVan Lier was the head basketball coach for the Worcester Vocational Technical High School team during part of the 1989–90 season. His team reached the Massachusetts Division II championship game.\n\nVan Lier also served as a special disc jockey on the Chicago rock music station 97.9 WLUP. In 2002 and 2004, he had supporting roles in the movies \"Barbershop\" and \"\".\n\nOn February 25, 2009, Van Lier was unexpectedly absent from his scheduled television appearance on Comcast SportsNet following a Bulls game. He was found dead in his apartment on Chicago's Near West Side on February 26, 2009. Fellow Bulls broadcaster and former Bulls head coach Johnny \"Red\" Kerr also died later that day.\n\n"}
{"id": "2314128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314128", "title": "Flatbed editor", "text": "Flatbed editor\n\nA flatbed editor is a type of machine used to edit film for a motion picture.\n\nPicture and sound rolls load onto separate motorized disks, called \"plates.\" Each set of plates moves forward or backward separately, or locked together to maintain synchronization between picture and sound. A prism reflects the film image onto a viewing screen, while a magnetic playback head reads the magnetic audio tracks. The two most common configurations are the \"six-plate\" (one picture transport and two sound transports) and the \"eight-plate\" (two picture and two sound transport) models. (The edges of two of the plates on the six-plate model can be seen pictured at the right.)\n\nMost films are shot double-system: The picture is shot on film, while the sound is recorded separately on quarter inch audiotape on a Nagra III, 4.2, 4S or occasionally a Stellavox SP7. For convenience during the editing process, the sound is transferred to a magnetic track (\"mag\") — sprocketed recording film, which is filmstock coated with magnetic oxide, instead of photo-sensitive emulsion. One \"frame\" on the magnetic film equals one frame of picture. The magnetic film is usually edge-coded: sequential numbers are stamped on the edge every few frames to facilitate locating particular frames or scenes.\n\nSince picture and sound are usually recorded separately, the editor must synchronize them. The editor loads one picture roll onto a film plate and its corresponding magnetic roll onto a sound plate. Then he advances the film to find the frame where the two parts of the Clapperboard came together. The editor repeats the process on the magnetic roll to find the frame with the clap sound. Once found, he marks the frame on both rolls as the synchronization point, and switches the flatbed to interlock mode. From then on, both picture and sound rolls advance or reverse by exactly the same amount to maintain synchronization.\n\nWhen the editor finds a point to cut one shot into another, he marks it on both picture and sound rolls, then makes the cut and splices in the next shot.\n\nOne of the first and most popular film editing machines was the Moviola. With it, one could manage a thousand-foot eleven-minute 35 mm roll. It was difficult to use compared to later machines, because it did not have high-speed operation. European flatbeds came into more common use in the United States during the 1970s, although never completely replacing the Moviola.\n\nBy the mid-1990s, flatbeds were increasingly replaced by computer-based non-linear systems, such as Avid and Lightworks. As of 2007, some film schools still use flatbed editors for their educational value. Feature films in the United States now use electronic non-linear systems almost exclusively.\n\nThe two most common brands of flatbed editor, Steenbeck and K-E-M (Keller-Elektro-Mechanik), were invented in Germany in the 1930s. There are also the Italian \"Prévost\", the Dutch \"Oude Delft\" or \"Oldelft\", the French \"Atlas\" as well as \"Moritone\" flatbeds. The U.K. produced the \"LEM\", and America the \"Moviola\" flatbed and the exclusively 16 mm Showchron of which approximately 400 were produced in 4, 6, or 8 plate configurations, 6 being the most common. (A few 35 mm Showchrons were built, but never sold commercially.)\n\nAll these machines employ a rotating prism rather than the Geneva drive intermittent mechanism first used by the American upright Moviola. The rotating prism allows the editor to move the film smoothly and continuously, reducing mechanical noise and film wear. It also makes high-speed operation feasible, and some machines can move the film at up to ten times standard speed. The K-E-M Universal, which has a modular construction, supports up to three picture heads and up to three sound tracks.\n\n"}
{"id": "2314138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314138", "title": "Mit Gas", "text": "Mit Gas\n\nMit Gas is the second studio album by the musical supergroup Tomahawk. It was released on May 6, 2003, through Ipecac Recordings, the record label owned by vocalist Mike Patton. \"Mit Gas\" charted in several countries, reaching the top 20 in Norway's VG-lista and the United States' \"Billboard\" Independent Albums charts.\n\nRecorded after an unreceptive tour with the band Tool, \"Mit Gas\" has been described by critics as a more focused and unified album than its predecessor, \"Tomahawk\". The album was supported by a tour alongside Melvins, Skeleton Key and Dälek. \"Mit Gas\" has garnered positive reviews, drawing comparisons to the works of Frank Zappa, Pink Floyd and Led Zeppelin.\n\nTomahawk is a musical supergroup consisting of Mike Patton, vocalist for Faith No More and Mr. Bungle; Duane Denison, guitarist for The Jesus Lizard; Kevin Rutmanis, bass player for Melvins; and John Stanier, drummer for Helmet. \"Mit Gas\" was recorded after they toured with the band Tool, whose fans frequently booed Tomahawk off stage during their performances. Denison has likened the experience of playing to the unreceptive and uninterested crowds as similar to \"being pro-choice at a [then-US president] Bush rally and trying to make your point\". Subsequently, the band opted to organize their own tour in support of the album, choosing to work with Melvins, Skeleton Key and Dälek. Speaking about the planning required to stage a four-act tour, Patton stated \"that's a lot of music. That's a lot of time to be sitting in some stinking-ass club with some guy puking in your purse\". Tool's guitarist Adam Jones offered to direct a video, but the offer was declined by the band. \n\n\"Mit Gas\" was released in the United States on May 6, 2003, and in the United Kingdom six days later, through Ipecac Recordings, the record label owned by Patton and Greg Werckman.\n\nReviews of \"Mit Gas\" have been positive. Writing for AllRovi, Daphne Carr awarded the album a rating of four stars out of five, adding that it \"expand[s] the borders of guitar rock with intelligence and humor\". Carr felt that \"You Can't Win\" and \"Rape This Day\" were among the album's best songs, and compared the overall sound to the work of avant-garde musician Frank Zappa. Pitchfork Media's Scott Hreha rated the album 8.4 out of 10, finding that the band seemed to complement each other musically more than they had on their previous album. Hreha singled out \"You Can't Win\", \"Mayday\" and \"Rape This Day\" as highlights of the record, and praised the album's ability to \"straddle the distance between ambience and onslaught\". Stephen Hang of PopMatters felt that the album was rewarding but challenging to listeners, and that Patton's lyrics were deliberately obtuse. Hang was positive about the album's sound, but described the release as having \"deliver[ed] the goods for Patton’s small, devoted cult audience\".\n\n\"Spin\" magazine awarded the album a \"B−\" rating, describing it as \"heavy on nuts and bolts, light on bolts from the blue\". The reviewer felt that the group's lineup suggested a greater potential than the resultant album offered, but called it \"solid\" nonetheless. Matt Rhodes, writing for Consequence of Sound, reviewed the album positively, stating that \"frankly, this album sounds like dark, kinky sex\". Rhodes compared it to the works of Pink Floyd and Led Zeppelin, and felt that Denison's guitar parts served to specifically complement Patton's vocals, rather than attempting to stand out for themselves. Tom Mallon of \"CMJ New Music Monthly\" felt that the album presented a more cohesive group than was present on \"Tomahawk\", allowing the band to \"[step] out of the shadows\" of their previous careers. Mallon praised Patton's vocal performances, finding them to be his most diverse work since the 1999 Mr. Bungle album \"California\".\n\nIn the United States, \"Mit Gas\" reached a peak position of 137 in the \"Billboard\" 200 albums chart, spending two weeks in the chart. The album also attained a peak of 7 on the Independent Albums chart, also published by \"Billboard\", spending five weeks on that chart. The album also charted in Norway, making it to number 17 during a three-week stay on the VG-lista chart; and in Australia, where it reached number 28 on the Aria Charts, staying there for two weeks.\n"}
{"id": "2314140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314140", "title": "David Rudkin", "text": "David Rudkin\n\nJames David Rudkin (born 29 June 1936) is an English playwright .\n\nRudkin was born in London. Coming from a family of strict evangelical Christians, he was educated at King Edward's School, Birmingham and read Mods and Greats at St Catherine's College, Oxford. Beginning to write during national service in the Royal Corps of Signals, Rudkin taught Latin, Greek and music at North Bromsgrove High School in Worcestershire until 1964, while also directing amateur theatre productions.\n\nFollowing the success of his first play \"Afore Night Come\" (1962), Rudkin translated works by Aeschylus, Roger Vitrac, the libretto of Schoenberg's \"Moses and Aaron\", and wrote the book to the Western Theatre Ballet's \"Sun into Darkness\" (Sadlers Wells 1963) and the libretto for Gordon Crosse's comic opera, \"The Grace of Todd\".\n\nRudkin's major works for the stage include \"Ashes\" (1974), \"The Sons of Light\" (written in 1965 though not staged until 1975), \"The Triumph of Death\" (1981) and \"The Saxon Shore\" (1986). His associations with the RSC also led him to translate the \"Hippolytus\" of Euripides for the company in 1978, having translated the author's \"Hecuba\" for radio three years previously.\n\nHe has written for television, including \"The Stone Dance\" (1963), \"Children Playing\" (1967), \"House of Character\" (1968) (staged by the Birmingham Rep as \"No Title\" in 1974), \"Blodwen, Home from Rachel's Marriage\" (1969), \"Bypass\" (1972), \"Atrocity\" (1973), the Alan Clarke-directed \"Penda's Fen\" (1974), and \"Artemis 81\" (1981); for radio, including \"No Accounting for Taste\" (1960), \"Gear Change\" (1967), \"Cries from Casement as His Bones are Brought to Dublin\" (1973) (also staged by the RSC); and for cinema, including François Truffaut's \"Fahrenheit 451\" (1966).\n\nHe has also written a volume in the British Film Institute's \"Film Classics\" series, a 2005 study of Carl Theodor Dreyer's \"Vampyr\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314141", "title": "Hair crimping", "text": "Hair crimping\n\nHair crimping is a method of styling usually straight, long hair so that it becomes wavy, often in a sawtooth / zig-zag fashion. In the Southern United States, it is usually referred to as crimping, but also can be called crinkles or deep waves.\n\nHair crimping is usually achieved by treating the hair with heat from a crimping iron (also referred to as hair crimper) or by braiding the hair, often in multiple strands, then undoing the braids after a couple of hours. A crimping iron has parallel heated plates designed with a flat S-shaped repeating groove.\n\nIn 1972, the modern crimping iron was invented by Geri Cusenza, the original founder of Sebastian, for Barbra Streisand's hair.\n\nCrimping peaked in mainstream popularity during the mid-1980s. In 2007 at a Chanel runway show crimped hair was shown on a model, and it became more popular throughout late 2007 and 2008. Crimping's popularity has a tendency to return in ten-year cycles, although it is often seen in fashion and hairstyle shows due to its visually striking effect.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314144", "title": "Dick Motta", "text": "Dick Motta\n\nJohn Richard Motta (born September 3, 1931) is an American former basketball coach whose career in the National Basketball Association (NBA) spanned 25 years, and he continues to rank among the NBA's all-time top 10 in coaching victories.\n\nAfter graduating from Utah State Agricultural College in Logan, Motta started coaching at nearby rural southeastern Idaho at Grace, where he taught seventh grade and coached for two years before being drafted in the armed services, then returned. He once said in an interview that winning the state championship (AA) at Grace in 1959 was his greatest thrill as a coach, even topping the NBA championship he won two decades later.\n\nMotta coached at Weber State College in Ogden, Utah in the 1960s. Under the direction of Motta and assistant coach Phil Johnson, Weber State won three Big Sky Conference championships (1965, 1966, 1968). (Johnson won all three years he was head coach: 1969, 1970, 1971.)\n\nMotta holds the unique distinction of being one of the very few coaches in the NBA who never played either high school, college, or pro basketball.\n\nMotta was hired as head coach of the Chicago Bulls in 1968 after a six-year stint at Weber State. He replaced Johnny Kerr, who had led the team to two playoff appearances despite subpar records of 33-48 and 29-53, respectively. Motta coached the team for eight seasons, coaching 656 games, which served as nearly a third of his career games coached (1,952). From 1970 to 1974 he led the Bulls to four consecutive seasons of 50 wins or more, winning the NBA Coach of the Year Award in 1971. However this did not translate to playoff success as the Bulls won just one playoff series (doing so in 1974) in that span. However, they advanced to the Conference Finals in the 1974-75 season, beating the Kansas City Kings to play the Golden State Warriors, who beat them in seven games to advance to the finals, where that team won the NBA Finals that year. The following year, the team went 24-58. He resigned on May 28, 1976.\n\nOn the same day he left the Bulls, he was hired as head coach of the Washington Bullets. The previous coach had been K. C. Jones, who had led them to a 48-34 record and a loss in the Eastern Conference Semifinals to the Cleveland Cavaliers. In his first season, the Bullets went 48-34 while advancing to the Semifinals again after beating the Cavaliers in the First Round, although they lost to the Houston Rockets in six games. The next year was the pinnacle for the team and Motta's career. They went 44-38, but they advanced all the way to the 1978 NBA Finals, where they beat the Seattle SuperSonics in seven games (with the last game in Seattle) to win the NBA championship. The following year, the team went 54-28 while winning the Atlantic Division. This was not only their sixth division title in eight years, it was also their last division title until 2017. The Bullets went to the 1979 NBA Finals, although they had to fight the full seven games in both the Semifinals and the Conference Finals, nearly blowing a 3-1 series lead to the Atlanta Hawks in the former and having to come back from a 3-1 series deficit from the San Antonio Spurs in the latter. In the Finals that year, they played the Seattle SuperSonics once again. The Bullets won Game 1 at home 99–97, but the SuperSonics won the following four games to win the NBA championship. The following year, the Bullets went 39-43, although they qualified for a playoff berth. They were beaten by the Philadelphia 76ers in two games. He resigned as head coach on May 27, 1980.\n\nMotta is sometimes erroneously credited with coining the celebrated phrase: \"The opera ain't over 'til the fat lady sings.\" In fact, the first recorded use of the phrase was by Texas Tech sports information director Ralph Carpenter, as reported in the \"Dallas Morning News\" on 10 March 1976.\n\nDuring a KENS-TV broadcast of the 1978 NBA Eastern Conference semi-finals between the Washington Bullets and the San Antonio Spurs, KENS Sports anchor Dan Cook used the phrase in an attempt to encourage Spurs fans, as their team was down three games to one against the Bullets. Motta heard the broadcast and adopted his own rendition of the expression — \"The 'opera' isn't over 'til the fat lady sings\" — to warn Bullets fans against braggadocio.\n\nThe odds were against the underdog Bullets, and sportswriters were forecasting a grim finale, so Motta rebounded with the upbeat ostinato, \"Wait for the fat lady!\" The Bullets won the Eastern Conference against the Atlantic Division Champion Philadelphia 76ers, and went on to beat the Western Conference Champion Seattle SuperSonics four games to three for the 1978 NBA title.\n\nThe victory gave Washington, D.C. area fans their first professional championship team in any sport since the Washington Redskins won the National Football League title in 1942. (The basketball team played its home games in nearby Landover, Maryland.) In Motta's second year as coach, the Bullets (the Washington \"Wizards\", as of 1997) had become only the third team to win the NBA championship in a seventh game on the road. That 1978 championship remains the franchise's only NBA championship.\n\nAfter the climactic Game 7 victory to claim the title, Motta celebrated with his team wearing a beer-soaked \"The Opera Isn't Over 'Til The Fat Lady Sings\" T-shirt.\n\nWhat made the championship so great was that we weren’t supposed to win it. We came a long way. Most people didn’t give us a chance, but I felt all along we could. I really did.\n\n— Dick Motta \n\nIn a Nov. 5, 2003 interview in the Utah Statesman, the student newspaper of his alma mater Utah State University, Motta said opera lovers were angry with him at first. \"My wife said they were going to kill me when I said that.\" But that as time passed, Motta said, he was extended friendly invitations to a variety of events with \"operatic\" themes ranging from the Metropolitan Opera in New York to the Grand Ole Opry in Nashville.\n\nMotta was the first head coach of the Dallas Mavericks, hired by the team on July 16, 1980. His first team went 15-67, dead last in the league. They did not lose as many games again until 1992 when they lost 60 games. Motta's Mavericks gradually rose up in prominence, rising in finishes in the Midwest Division from 6th in the first season to 4th by the third year. His fourth season (1983-84) was the start of something big for the team, as they went 43-39 while qualifying for the playoffs for the first time. They defeated the Seattle SuperSonics in the First Round to advance to the Semifinals, where they lost to the Los Angeles Lakers in five games. In the following year, the Mavs went to the playoffs once again after a 44-38 season, although they lost to the Portland Trail Blazers in the First Round. They went to the Semifinals the following year after a 44-38 year and a beating of the Utah Jazz in the First Round, although it ended with another loss to the Lakers. The next season was Motta's last, and it was his best with the team as they went 55-27 and finished 2nd in the Western Conference, winning their first Midwest Division title (the Mavericks did not win a division title again for twenty seasons). However, they lost to the SuperSonics in the First Round in four games. Motta resigned a month after the season ended on May 20.\n\nOn January 4, 1990, Motta was hired by the Sacramento Kings in the middle of the season, replacing Jerry Reynolds, who had led the team to a 7-21 record. Motta coached the Kings to a 16-38 record, while the Kings had an ultimate record of 23-59. The next season, the Kings went 25-57 while finishing dead last in the Pacific Division. The same would be true the following year, although Motta was fired after a 7-18 start on Christmas Eve in 1991.\n\nOn May 17, 1994, Dallas hired him back as coach of the team, replacing Quinn Buckner, who went 13-69. Motta led the team to a 23 game improvement with a 36-46 record. His second and final season went less successful as they went 26-56. He was reassigned from his head coach role on May 1, 1996.\n\nThe Denver Nuggets hired Motta on November 26, 1996, replacing Bernie Bickerstaff, who had gotten the team to a 4-9 start. The Nuggets went into a tailspin, going 17-52 while losing 26 of their final 30 games to finish 21-61 and 12th in the Western Conference. Motta was fired on April 21, 1997.\n\n"}
{"id": "2314148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314148", "title": "Tunngavik Federation of Nunavut", "text": "Tunngavik Federation of Nunavut\n\nThe Tunngavik Federation of Nunavut (TFN, Inuktitut: Nunavut Tunngavik; Syllabics: ᓄᓇᕗᑦ ᑐᙵᕕᒃ) was the organization officially recognized from 1982 to 1993 as representing the Inuit of what is now Nunavut, but was then part of the Northwest Territories, for the purpose of negotiating treaties and land claims settlements. In this role, it replaced the Inuit Tapiriit Kanatami, which represents Inuit across Canada, and has been superseded by Nunavut Tunngavik Incorporated.\n\nThe Inuit began to emerge as a political force in the late 1960s and early 1970s with the struggle for control over natural resources. This was a real wake-up call for Inuit, and it stimulated the emergence of a new generation of young Inuit activists in the late 1960s. They began networking with one another across the Northwest Territories, Quebec and Labrador and in 1982, the Tunngavik Federation of Nunavut, or \"TFN\" had been incorporated to take over the claim negotiation mandate from the Inuit Tapiriit Kanatami. TFN worked for ten years and, in September 1992, came to a final agreement with the government of Canada. Then, in November 1992, the \"Nunavut Final Agreement\" was approved by nearly 85% of Nunavut Inuit. As the final step in this long process, the \"Nunavut Land Claims Agreement\" was signed on May 25, 1993 in Iqaluit by the Prime Minister Brian Mulroney and by Paul Quassa, the president of Nunavut Tunngavik Incorporated, which replaced the TFN upon the ratification of the Nunavut Final Agreement. The Canadian Parliament passed the supporting legislation in June of the same year, enabling the eventual establishment of Nunavut as a territorial entity. The land claims agreement was the result of two decades of negotiations that, in the end, gave birth to the largest comprehensive land claims settlement in Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "2314155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314155", "title": "HMS Discovery (1789)", "text": "HMS Discovery (1789)\n\nHMS \"Discovery\" was a Royal Navy ship launched in 1789 and best known as the lead ship in George Vancouver's exploration of the west coast of North America in his famous 1791-1795 expedition. She was converted to a bomb vessel in 1798 and participated in the Battle of Copenhagen. Thereafter she served as a hospital ship and later as a convict ship until 1831. She was broken up in 1834.\n\n\"Discovery\" was launched in 1789 and purchased for the Navy in 1790. She was named after the previous HMS \"Discovery\", one of the ships on James Cook's third voyage to the Pacific Ocean. The earlier \"Discovery\" was the ship on which Vancouver had served as a midshipman.\n\n\"Discovery\" was a full-rigged ship with a standard crew complement of 100 including a widow's man. She had been designed and built for a voyage of exploration to the Southern whale fisheries.\n\n\"Discovery\"s first captain was Henry Roberts, with Vancouver as his first lieutenant. But when the Nootka Crisis began in 1789, Roberts and Vancouver were posted elsewhere. The ship then became a depot (hulk) for processing sailors brought in by press gangs in Chatham. Vancouver then returned and was given full command of \"Discovery\" to assist with the Nootka Sound Conventions. \n\nOn 1 April 1791, \"Discovery\" left England with . Both ships stopped at Cape Town before exploring the south coast of Australia. In King George Sound, the \"Discovery\"s naturalist and surgeon Archibald Menzies collected various plant species including \"Banksia grandis\". This was the first recording of the genus \"Banksia\" from Western Australia. The two ships sailed to Hawaii where Vancouver met Kamehameha I. \"Chatham\" and \"Discovery\" then sailed on to the Northwest Pacific.\n\nOver the course of the next four years, Vancouver surveyed the northern Pacific Ocean coast in \"Discovery\" wintering in Spanish California or Hawaii. Vancouver named many features after friends and associates, including:\n\n\"Discovery\"'s primary mission was to exert British sovereignty over this part of the Northwest Coast following the hand-over of the Spanish Fort San Miguel at Nootka Sound, although exploration in co-operation with the Spanish was seen as an important secondary objective. Exploration work was successful as relations with the Spanish went well; resupply in California was especially helpful. Vancouver and the Spanish commandant Juan Francisco de la Bodega y Quadra were on such good terms that the original name of Vancouver Island was actually \"Vancouver and Quadra's Island\".\nIn 1793, Discovery entered a bay on the northern end of the Prince of Wales Island when a storm arose. Its shelter led to it being named Port Protection. Baker Point, the northwest point of Prince of Wales Island is named after the Discovery's 3rd Lieutenant Joseph Baker.\n\nIt is remarkable that during \"Discovery\"s five-year voyage she lost only six sailors, all in accidents; none died from scurvy or violence.\n\n\"Discovery\" was meant to bring a resolution to the disposition of control over Nootka Sound. But despite four years of dispatches with their home governments, Vancouver and Quadra failed to formally conclude an agreement.\n\n\"Discovery\" put into St Helena in July 1795. There on 2 July 1795 \"Discovery\" and the brig \"Chatham\" captured a Dutch East Indiaman, \"Makassar\", which sailed in, unaware that the newly established Batavian Republic was at war with Great Britain. Some prize money was due to be paid in November 1824.\n\nFrom there Vancouver and \"Discovery\" sailed in convoy with , the East Indiaman \"General Goddard\", their prizes, and a large number of other East Indiamen. They arrived at Shannon in September and \"Discovery\" sailed on to England.\n\nAfter four years at sea, \"Discovery\" was in great need of a refit. She was laid up until 1798 when she was refitted as a bomb vessel and recommissioned under Commander John Dick.\n\nIn October 1800 Commander John Conn replaced Dick. \"Discovery\" participated in the Battle of Copenhagen in April 1801. In 1847 the Admiralty authorized the issuance of the Naval General Service medal with clasp \"Copenhagen 1801\" to all surviving claimants from the campaign.\n\nOn 4 August 1801, \"Discovery\" served with Nelson when he resolved to attack an enemy flotilla off Boulogne using Bomb vessels. On the night of 15 August, the British attacked in four divisions, with Conn in charge of four boats armed with howitzers. \"Discovery\" had one man wounded in the unsuccessful British attack. \"Discovery\" was then paid off in October, and laid up in ordinary in May 1802.\n\n\"Discovery\" was recommissioned in May 1803 under Commander John Joyce, with Commander Charles Pickford replacing him in August. Pickford continued in command until 1805.\n\nIn 1807 \"Discovery\" was at Sheerness, serving as a hospital ship. She continued in this role until 1815.\n\nIn 1818 \"Discovery\" was converted to a convict ship at Woolwich. In 1824 she moved to Deptford, where she continued to serve as a convict ship until at least 1831. She was broken up there in 1834.\n\nAmong the notable persons who served on \"Discovery\"s great voyage:\n\n\nNotes\n\nCitations\n\nReferences\n"}
{"id": "2314166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314166", "title": "University Affiliated Research Center", "text": "University Affiliated Research Center\n\nA University Affiliated Research Center (UARC) is a strategic United States Department of Defense (DoD) research center associated with a university. UARCs are formally established by the Director of Defense Research and Engineering (DDR&E), Office of the Secretary of Defense. UARCs were developed to ensure that essential engineering and technology capabilities of particular importance to the DoD are maintained. Although UARCs receive sole source funding under the authority of 10 U.S.C. Section 2304(c)(3)(B), they may also compete for science and technology work unless precluded from doing so by their DoD UARC contracts.\n\nThese nonprofit organizations maintain essential research, development and engineering \"core\" capabilities; maintain long-term strategic relationships with their DoD sponsors; and operate in the public interest, free from real or perceived conflicts of interest. Collaboration with the educational and research resources available at their universities enhances each UARC’s ability to meet the needs of their sponsors.\n\nUniversity affiliated laboratories have been conducting research and development for the United States Navy since 1942, beginning with the creation of the Applied Physics Lab at Johns Hopkins. The most recent UARC, created in 2012, is the National Strategic Research Institute at the University of Nebraska, which is performing research for the United States Strategic Command.\n\nOccasionally, the creation of UARCs have been controversial. For example, in July 2004 the Navy proposed the University of Hawaii at Mānoa as a UARC. In response, some students and others protested with a six-day sit in at the campus administration building.\n\nCurrent UARCs and their sponsors are:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n[*] Denotes one of the six originally designated DoD UARCs\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314167", "title": "Henry Becque", "text": "Henry Becque\n\nHenry François Becque (9 April 1837 – 12 May 1899), was a French dramatist. He was born in Paris.\n\nIn 1867, he wrote, in imitation of Lord Byron, the libretto for Victorin de Joncières's opera \"Sardanapale\", but his first important work, \"Michel Pauper\", appeared in 1870. The importance of this sombre drama was first realized when it was revived at the Odéon in 1886. \"Les Corbeaux\" (1882) established Becque's position as an innovator, and in 1885 he produced his most successful play, \"La Parisienne\". Becque produced little during the last years of his life, but his disciples carried on the tradition he had created.\n\nHis other works include \"Querelles littéraires\" (1890), and \"Souvenirs d'un auteur dramatique\" (1895), consisting chiefly of reprinted articles in which he does not spare his opponents. His \"Théâtre complet\" (3 vols., 1899) includes \"L'Enfant prodigue\" (Vaudeville Theatre, 6 November 1868); \"Michel Pauper\" (Théâtre de la Porte-Saint-Martin, 17 June 1870); \"L'Enlèvement\" (Vaudeville, 18 November 1871); \"La Navette\" (Gymnase, 15 November 1878); \"Les Honnêtes Femmes\" (Gymnase, 1 January 1880); \"Les Corbeaux\" (Comédie-Française, 14 September 1882); and \"La Parisienne\" (Théâtre de la Renaissance, 7 February 1885).\n"}
{"id": "2314172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314172", "title": "Age Ain't Nothing but a Number", "text": "Age Ain't Nothing but a Number\n\nAge Ain't Nothing but a Number is the debut studio album by American singer Aaliyah. It was released under Jive and Blackground Records on May 24, 1994, in the United States. After being signed by her uncle Barry Hankerson, Aaliyah was introduced to recording artist and producer R. Kelly. He became her mentor, as well as the lead songwriter and producer of the album. The duo recorded the album at the Chicago Recording Company in Chicago, Illinois. The album featured two hit singles; the top ten-charting \"Back & Forth\" and \"At Your Best (You Are Love)\"; both singles were certified Gold by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). One additional single followed in the US: \"Age Ain't Nothing but a Number\". Two more singles were released internationally after \"Age Ain't Nothing but a Number\": \"Down with the Clique\" and \"The Thing I Like\".\n\n\"Age Ain't Nothing But a Number\" received generally favorable reviews from critics. Many noted Aaliyah's vocal ability and praised the lyrical content. Aaliyah was credited for redefining R&B by blending her voice with Kelly's new jack swing. The album peaked at number 18 on the \"Billboard\" 200 and sold over three million copies in the United States. The album was certified Gold in Canada by Music Canada and Gold in the United Kingdom by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI). To date the album has sold over six million copies worldwide.\n\nAaliyah's uncle Barry Hankerson, who was an entertainment lawyer, had been married to Gladys Knight. As a child, Aaliyah traveled with Knight and worked with an agent in New York, where she auditioned for commercials and television programs, including the sitcom \"Family Matters\". In 1989, when she was only ten years old, she went on to appear on \"Star Search\", where she performed \"My Funny Valentine\". Aaliyah chose to begin auditioning while her mother made the decision to have her surname dropped. By age eleven, she started appearing in concerts alongside Gladys Knight. For five nights, Aaliyah performed alongside Gladys Knight in Las Vegas; during the concerts, she would perform a number during the middle of Knight's set and she also would close the show by singing a duet with Knight. When speaking about her experience from performing with Knight, Aaliyah said \"it was a great learning experience\". She also mentioned, \"I learned a lot about being on stage and how audiences react differently to various songs\".\n\nWhen Aaliyah was twelve, Hankerson would take her to Vanguard Studios in her hometown of Detroit to record demos with record producer and Vanguard Studios owner Michael J. Powell. In an interview, Powell stated, “At the time, Barry was trying to get Aaliyah a deal with MCA, and he came to me to make her demos.” During her time recording with Powell, Aaliyah recorded several covers, such as \"The Greatest Love of All\", \"Over the Rainbow\", and \"My Funny Valentine\", which she had performed on Star Search. Eventually Hankerson started shopping Aaliyah around to various labels, such as Warner Bros Records and MCA Records; although the executives at both labels liked her voice, they ultimately didn't sign her, according to Hankerson. After several failed attempts with getting Aaliyah signed to a record label, Hankerson then shifted his focus on getting her signed to Jive Records, the label that R.Kelly, an artist he managed during that time, was signed to. According to former Jive Records A&R Jeff Sledge, the former owner of Jive Records didn't want to sign Aaliyah at first, because he felt that a 12-year-old was too young to be signed to the label. Sledge stated in an interview, \"The guy who owned Jive at the time, Clive Calder, he’s also an A&R person by trade. He was basically head of the A&R department. Barry kept shopping her to him and he saw something, but he said, ‘She’s not ready, she’s still young, she needs to be developed more.’ Barry would go back and develop her more\". After developing Aaliyah more as an artist, Hankerson finally signed a distribution deal with Jive Records, and he signed her to his Blackground Records label at the age of 12. When Aaliyah finally got a chance to audition for the record executives at Jive records she sang \"Vision of Love\" performed by Mariah Carey.\n\nAfter Aaliyah was signed to both Blackground records and Jive records, Hankerson then introduced her to recording artist and producer R. Kelly. When the pair first met Aaliyah sang an a cappella for Kelly which left him impressed with her voice and after that moment he decided that he wanted to work with her. He then became her mentor, as well as the sole songwriter and producer for her debut album. Kelly was the only writer and producer credited on the album because the record label didn't want multiple people to share publishing rights. According to Jeff Sledge \"Clive was a publishing guru, so he and Barry weren’t trying to cut a lot of people in on the album to share the publishing. They said we’re going to do this with one guy and the publishing will be easy to deal with because it’s one person\". Once the issue over publishing was fixed both Aaliyah and Kelly began recording the album in 1993 when she was 14 and according to Aaliyah it took about eight to nine months to record the album.\n\nR. Kelly and Aaliyah worked on the record in Chicago during the summer while she was off from school for summer vaction, she would fly to Chicago from Detroit, and they would work on the album. While recording the album the pair spent a lot of time hanging out together by going to arcades and bowling. This would help with the writing process because Kelly would \"write the songs that fit her and what kids her age and her friends were talking about\". According to Aaliyah \"He just spent time with me, trying to see how I thought about things and what people my age think,\". When discussing the writing process for the album Aaliyah said \"We vibed off of one another, and that’s how the songs was built, He would vibe with me on what the lyrics should be. He’d tell me what to sing, and I’d sing it. That’s how the whole album was done\" The duo recorded the first song, \"Old School\", at the Chicago Recording Company in Chicago, Illinois and it took at least two days to record. Aaliyah loved recording old school because that song \"had an Isley Brothers flair” to it. When discussing the recording process for old school Aaliyah said, \"At first, I had to get comfortable, but I had been around Robert, so it was cool. Both Robert and I are perfectionists, and if you listen to the music, there is a lot of passion in it.”\n\nWhile recording the album, Kelly coached her as they worked several hours in the studio. She often sang the songs multiple times in order to achieve \"excellence\". When discussing the hectic hours recording the album Aaliyah said, \"We put in a lot of hours; as far as the music, we’d be in there all night making sure it was perfect. There were times when I was tired, but I knew I had to push on if I wanted to come off.” Kelly claimed that Aaliyah was \"one of the best young artists\" he had worked with. During the recording process for the album the record label was out of the loop in regards to the type of songs that was being recorded. Executives from the label didn't hear the album until it was finished and they were impressed with the finished product. Sledge said \"When we finally heard the album we were blown away because the album was dope. It was basically like listening to an R. Kelly album, but with a little girl singing\". The original release date for the album was June 14, but due to the instant success of the lead single's accompanying video on MTV it prompted the label to release the album earlier on May 24.\n\nOn the album Aaliyah sang her songs in a falsetto, she felt that the songs \"came at you kind of tough, a bit edgy, hip-hop, but the vocals can be very soothing\". According to Aaliyah \"lyrically I want things to be different.\" The album is filled with \"sunny\" pop jams and \"sweet\" ballads and it opens with the intro track which is an a cappella public service announcement. The intro song urges its listeners to listen to the album carefully.\"Listen to instructions carefully / While bumping this album in your jeeps / Aaliyah’s got a '90s swing / So be careful with the volume, please\". The next track \"Throw Your Hands Up\" is an anthemic up-tempo G-Funk inspired song and it has been described as Aaliyah's \"statement of purpose\". On the song she tells the listeners that she's \"straight from the streets\" with a \"touch of jazz\" in her. The third track which served as the album's lead single \"Back & Forth\" has been described as an urban Dance cross-over song with Pop and R&B influences. On the song Aaliyah sings with a \"subtle, laid-back vocal\" while she talks about partying on the weekend with her friends. According to billboard \"It doesn't matter that Aaliyah is 15. It’s the freakin' weekend, baby, so she's picking up her ladies—presumably in her jeep—and hitting the local party spot\". The forth track \"Age Ain't Nothing But A Number\" is the title track for the album and it's about \"a young girl pining for the love of an older man, and her telling society that it doesn’t matter the age difference between the two of them\". The song contains an interpolation from the song What You Won't Do for Love performed by Bobby Caldwell with the lines \"I got a thing for you, and I won’t let go.”\n\nThe fifth track \"Down with the Clique\" is a Hip hop inspired song and on the song Aaliyah displays a \"silky cooing\" with her vocals. The sixth track \"At At Your Best (You Are Love)\" is a cover and it was originally recorded by The Isley Brothers. The song was described as a \"sweet\" \"vintage soul ballad\" and it gave aaliyah a chance to ditch the tough-girl posturing according to billboard. The Seventh track \"No One Knows How to Love Me Quite Like You Do\" has been described as a \"sensually\" uptempo \"crush\" record and lyrically it is about Aaliyah being satisfied and how she is \"made to feel like a goddess\". When discussing the record Aaliyah said “Every girl looks for that one person who is going to love them right. That song is saying, when it comes down to it, I like how you satisfy me.” The song features a guest rap appearance from Tia Hawkins who brings a \"comic relief\" with her raps telling us Kells is \"spitting tracks as if it were tobacco.\" The eighth track \"I'm So into You\" also features another guest rap from Tia Hawkins. The ninth track \"Street Thing\" has been described as a \"pretty standard slow jam\" and it's about having devotion for another person. During the bridge of the song Aaliyah sings about climbing the \"highest mountain,\" and swimming the \"deepest sea\" to prove her devotion.\nThe tenth track \"Young Nation\" is about Aaliyah \"aligning herself with an entire movement\". The eleventh track \"Old School\" is about merging an old school style with a new school style, the opening begins with \"Here's the old school / With the new school,\". The final track \"I'm Down\" has been described as a mid-tempo rap-soul ballad and it's about \"one person giving themselves fully to another\".\n\nAaliyah's record label didn't interfere with her imaging so she was granted free rein when it came to her imaging and style. Former Jive records A&R Jeff Sledge mentioned in an interview that it was set up so that Aaliyah wouldn't have to change her image or style. While speaking with \"Billboard\" about the marketing plans for the album Senior Vice President of Jive records Barry Weiss, stated \"The international thrust on the project will begin 6-8 weeks utilizing BMG international\". When asked about the promotional plans for the album weiss said, \"there will be little in the way of marketing changes between the domestic and world promotion of the set\". He then spoke about Aaliyah's imaging saying, \"She is what she is the album has tremendous pop appeal to go along with her urban edge, so there's not a whole lot different that we'll be doing abroad\". A month before the release of the albums lead single, \"Back & Forth\", Aaliyah attended the Urban Network's \"Power Jam\" conference, where she was introduced and \"received warmly\". In promotion of the album, Aaliyah embarked on a world tour that lasted from 1994 to 1995, she toured through the US, Europe, Japan and South Africa Aside from touring internationally Aaliyah performed at the Budweiser Superfest at the USAir Arena in September 1994. In January 1995 she performed \"Age Ain't Nothing But A Number\" which served as the albums third single on the Nickelodeon sketch comedy show All That. On May 1, 1995, Aaliyah made an in store appearance at the Virgin Megastore in London.\n\n\"Back & Forth\" was released as the album's lead single on April 8, 1994, it reached its peak at number five on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 three months after it was released on July 2, 1994. The single reached its peak at number one on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs on May 21, 1994, this would become one of the three number ones that Aaliyah would achieve on this chart. Eventually the single was certified Gold by the RIAA on June 9, 1994 for sales of 700,000 copies sold. Internationally Back & Forth became a top 40 hit in the UK and the Netherlands peaking at number Sixteen and Thirty-Eight respectively. In New Zealand the song charted within the top 50 peaking at number Forty-Eight. The album's second single \"At Your Best (You Are Love)\" was released on August 22, 1994, and it became Aaliyah's second top ten hit on the Billboard hot 100 peaking at number six. On the r&b/hip hop charts the song also reached the top ten peaking at number two. This song also received a gold certification by the RIAA on October 25, 1994. In Japan the single peaked within the top twenty at number twelve on the Tokio Hot 100 chart. In other international markets At Your Best reached the top forty Peaking at number Twenty-Seven, Thirty-Eight and Forty in the UK, New Zealand and The Netherlands respectively. \"Age Ain't Nothing but a Number\" was the third single released and it was the least successful single from the album; It also was the last single to be released in the US. It reached its peak at number seventy-five on the Hot 100 chart on February 25, 1995. In the UK the single fared better on the charts peaking within the top 40 on the official charts at thirty two and the top 20 and top 10 on the Official Dance and R&B charts at number nineteen and six. The album's fifth and sixth singles \"Down with the Clique\" and \"The Thing I Like\" were released in the UK only. Down with the clique peaked within the top 40 on the official charts at number thirty-two and within the top 40 and top 10 on the official Dance and R&B charts at number twenty-five and five. The Thing i Like also peaked in the top 40 on the official charts at number thirty-three and within the top 20 and top 10 on the Dance and R&B Charts at fifteen and four respectively.\n\n\"Age Ain't Nothing But a Number\" received generally favorable reviews from music critics, some writers noted that Aaliyah's \"silky vocals\" and \"sultry voice\" blended with Kelly's new jack swing helped define R&B in the 1990s. Her sound was also compared to that of female quartet En Vogue. Christopher John Farley of \"Time\" magazine described the album as a \"beautifully restrained work\", noting that Aaliyah's \"girlish, breathy vocals rode calmly on R.Kelly's rough beats\". Stephen Thomas Erlewine of AllMusic felt that the album had its \"share of filler,\" but described the singles as \"slyly seductive.\" He also claimed that the songs on the album were \"frequently better\" than that of Kelly's first studio album, \"12 Play\".\n\nPaul Verna from \"Billboard\" praised both R. Kelly's production on the album and Aaliyah's voice saying \"The golden production touch of mentor R. Kelly is strongly felt here, and he has a field day with Aaliyah's warm silky voice, which has a depth and range that belie her youth.\" Music editors from RPM Magazine praised the album for being a \"perfect female companion\" to R.Kelly's 12 Play album. The editors also felt that the album was filled with many \"ear pleasing numbers\" and that Aaliyah was next in line behind Whitney Houston, Mariah Carey and Toni Braxton as a \"chart topping queen\". Tonya Pendleton from \"The Washington Post\" felt that Aaliyah's voice \"has the maturity of someone much older\", also she thought Aaliyah stood out because of her \"uniquely mellifluous tone\". According to Pendleton \"What makes her stand out is her uniquely mellifluous tone and the eloquent way she expresses the heartfelt passion of first love\". Overall she felt that Age Ain’t Nothing but a Number \"is that rarest of recordings — a collection well suited for its teenage target group, but one that even older listeners can relate to\".\n\nAfter the release of \"Age Ain't Nothing But a Number\" Aaliyah received several award nominations pertaining to her debut album. In 1994 \"Back & Forth\" was nominated for Best New R&B/Urban Artist Clip Of The Year at the Billboard Music Video Awards. The following year in 1995 she was nominated for Favorite Soul/R&B New Artist at the 22nd American Music Awards. At the 8th annual Soul Train Music Awards she received two nominations for Best R&B/Soul or Rap New Artist and Best R&B/Soul Album, Female. Meanwhile, at the 1995 Soul Train Lady of Soul Awards She received a nomination for Best R&B/Soul New Artist for \"Back & Forth\".\n\n\"Age Ain't Nothing But a Number\" debuted at number 24 on the \"Billboard\" 200 chart on June 11, 1994, selling 74,000 copies in its first week. The album reached its peak at number 18 on June 18, 1994, spending a total of 37 weeks on the Billboard 200 chart. On the Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums chart the album peaked at number 3 on July 2, 1994, where it spent a total of 41 weeks on that chart. In Canada the album debuted at number 29 on the Canadian \"RPM\" Albums Chart on July 18, 1994. On August 8, 1994 the album reached its peak at number 20 on the Canadian RPM charts and ultimately spent a total of 25 weeks on the Canadian albums chart. On December 12, 1994, approximately five months after the album was released in Canada the album was certified gold by Music Canada for 50,000 copies sold. In the UK the album peaked at number 23 and 6 respectively on both the UK Albums Chart and UK R&B Chart. Eventually the album was certified Gold in the UK by the BPI for 100,000 copies sold. Elsewhere in Europe the album peaked at number 44 on the Dutch Albums Chart, and number 90 on the European Top 100 Albums chart. In Japan The album also received a gold certification for a 100,000 copies sold. Overall the album has sold three million copies in the United States and six million copies worldwide.\n\nWith the release of \"Age Ain't Nothing but a Number\", rumors circulated of a relationship between Aaliyah and R. Kelly. Shortly after, there was speculation about a secret marriage with the release of \"Age Ain't Nothing but a Number\" and the adult content that Kelly had written for Aaliyah. \"Vibe\" magazine later revealed a marriage certificate that listed the couple married on August 31, 1994, in Sheraton Gateway Suites in Rosemont, Illinois. Aaliyah, who was 15 at the time, was listed as 18 on the certificate; the illegal marriage was annulled in February 1995 by her parents. The pair continued to deny marriage allegations, stating that neither was married. One particular allegation among the rumor was that Aaliyah wedded Kelly without her parents' knowledge.\n\nAaliyah reportedly developed a friendship with Kelly during the recording of her debut album. As she recalled to \"Vibe\" magazine in 1994, she and Kelly would \"go watch a movie\" and \"go eat\" when she got tired and would then \"come back and work\". She described the relationship between her and Kelly as being \"rather close.\" In 2016, Kelly said that he was in love with Aaliyah as he was with \"anybody else.\"\nIn December 1994, Aaliyah told the \"Sun-Times\" that whenever she was asked about being married to Kelly, she urged them not to believe \"all that mess\" and that she and Kelly were \"close\" and \"people took it the wrong way.\"\nIn his 2011 book \"The Man Behind the Man: Looking From the Inside Out\", Demetrius Smith Sr., a former member of Kelly's entourage, wrote that Kelly told him \"in a voice that sounded as if he wanted to burst into tears\" that he thought Aaliyah was pregnant.\n\nJamie Foster Brown in the 1994 issue of \"Sister 2 Sister\" wrote that \"R. Kelly told me that he and Aaliyah got together and it was just magic.\" Brown also reported hearing about a relationship between them. \"I've been hearing about Robert and Aaliyah for a while—that she was pregnant. Or that she was coming and going in and out of his house. People would see her walking his dog, 12 Play, with her basketball cap and sunglasses on. Every time I asked the label, they said it was platonic. But I kept hearing complaints from people about her being in the studio with all those men.\" Brown later added \"at 15, you have all those hormones and no brains attached to them.\"\n\nAaliyah admitted in court documents that she had lied about her age. In May 1997, she filed suit in Cook County seeking to have all records of the marriage expunged because she was not old enough under state law to get married without her parents' consent. It was reported that she cut off all professional and personal ties with Kelly after the marriage was annulled and ceased having contact with him. In 2014, Jomo Hankerson stated that Aaliyah \"got villainized\" over her relationship with Kelly and the scandal over the marriage made it difficult to find producers for her second album. \"We were coming off of a multi-platinum debut album and except for a couple of relationships with Jermaine Dupri and Puffy, it was hard for us to get producers on the album.\" Hankerson also expressed confusion over why \"they were upset\" with Aaliyah given her age at the time.\n\nAaliyah was known to avoid answering questions regarding Kelly following the professional split. During an interview with Christopher John Farley, she was asked if she was still in contact with him and if she would ever work with him again. Farley said Aaliyah responded with a \"firm, frosty 'no'\" to both of the questions. \"Vibe\" magazine said Aaliyah changed the subject any time \"you bring up the marriage with her\". A spokeswoman for Aaliyah said in 2000 that when \"R. Kelly comes up, she doesn't even speak his name, and nobody's allowed to ask about it at all\". Kelly later commented that Aaliyah had opportunities to address the pair's relationship after they separated professionally but chose not to.\n\nR. Kelly would have other allegations made about him regarding underage girls in the years following her death, and his marriage to Aaliyah was used to evidence his involvement with them. He has refused to discuss his relationship with her, citing her death. \"Out of respect for her, and her mom and her dad, I will not discuss Aaliyah. That was a whole other situation, a whole other time, it was a whole other thing, and I'm sure that people also know that.\" Aaliyah's mother, Diane Haughton, reflected that everything \"that went wrong in her life\" when she began with her relationship with Kelly. However, the allegations have been said to have done \"little to taint Aaliyah's image or prevent her from becoming a reliable '90s hitmaker with viable sidelines in movies and modeling.\"\n\nAll songs were written and produced by R. Kelly, except for \"At Your Best (You Are Love)\", written by Ernie Isley, Marvin Isley, O'Kelly Isley, Jr., Ronald Isley and Chris Jasper.\n\nCredits are adapted from the album's liner notes.\n\n"}
{"id": "2314175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314175", "title": "Cindy Herron", "text": "Cindy Herron\n\nCynthia Ann Herron (born September 26, 1961), professionally known as Cindy Herron and sometimes credited as Cindy Herron–Braggs is an American singer–songwriter, model and actress. Herron is best known as a founding member of the R&B/pop group En Vogue, one of the world's best-selling girl groups of all time. She sang lead vocals on the group's first single \"Hold On\", which garnered mainstream success and sold over a million copies. Despite being absent from the group during certain periods, Herron and fellow group member Terry Ellis are the only original members to appear on all of the group's album releases to date. In the 1980s, Herron began her career as an actress, making her debut appearance in \"Up and Coming\" as \"Valerie\". \n\nShe would eventually land roles in more popular TV series including \"Amen\" and \"Full House\". She landed a supporting role in the 1986 film release \"Johnnie Mae Gibson: FBI\", and co-starred in \"Wally and the Valentines\" as \"Roxanne Valentine\". Throughout her career, Herron has sold a total of over 20 million records with En Vogue. Her work has earned her several awards and nominations, including two American Music Awards, a Billboard Music Award, seven MTV Video Music Awards, four Soul Train Music Awards and six Grammy nominations.\nHerron was born in San Francisco, California, to an black African-American father and a white Swiss-German mother. Herron began her musical career in the cabaret scene in San Francisco, during the 1980s. Herron also worked as a background vocalist for local San Francisco Bay Area acts such as Tiggi Clay. She also appeared in the original company of the Jerry Herman musical revue \"Showtune\" (then titled \"Tune the Grand Up\").\n\nHerron was featured as a Jet Magazine's JET beauty in the January 13, 1980 issue. Herron was named \"Miss San Francisco 1986\" and placed 2nd-Runner Up in the 1986 Miss California Pageant. She is also a former Miss Black California. Herron has also worked as an actress, beginning in 1980 as a cast member of the PBS television drama \"Up and Coming\". She appeared in episodes of 'Amen' & 'Full House' in the late-1980s. She later appeared in such films as \"\"Juice\"\", Batman Forever and \"Lexie\". In 2007, Herron played Deena Jones in the stage version of Dreamgirls.\n\nIn 1988, Herron was chosen along with Dawn Robinson and Maxine Jones to be in a three-piece girl group by producers Denzil Foster and Thomas McElroy. After adding Terry Ellis to the line-up, the group became a quartet and chose the name En Vogue. Herron sang lead vocals on the group's first single \"Hold On\", which peaked at number 2 on \"Billboard\"'s Hot 100 chart, and sold over a million copies becoming platinum certified by the RIAA. Later that year, the group released their debut album \"Born to Sing\", which went platinum. Herron also sang lead vocals on the singles \"Lies\" and \"You Don't Have to Worry\", both of which peaked at number 1 on \"Billboard's\" Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart.\n\nThe group released their second album \"Funky Divas\" in 1992, which sold over 3.5 million copies in the United States. Herron shares lead vocals on one of the album's top-charting singles \"Free Your Mind\". \"Free Your Mind\" won two MTV Video Music Awards, for \"Best R&B Video\" and \"Best Dance Video\". En Vogue released an EP in the fall of 1993, entitled \"Runaway Love\". In 1994, Herron went on maternity leave and temporarily left the group. Due to her brief absence from En Vogue, Herron did not record on the single \"Freedom (Theme from Panther)\" without the rest of the members in the music video.\n\nIn 1996, En Vogue recorded \"Don't Let Go (Love)\" with Herron singing the outro of the song. The song was featured on the soundtrack to the motion picture \"Set It Off\". Released in the autumn, it became the group's biggest hit to date going number one worldwide. It also sold over 1.8 million copies worldwide and became certified platinum by the RIAA. In response to the large commercial success of \"Don't Let Go (Love)\", the group steadfastly went to work on its third album. As the album was nearing completion, Robinson chose to leave the group in April 1997 after difficult contractual negotiations reached a stalemate. The ending result saw En Vogue re-recording their third album with Herron singing lead vocals on more of the songs. In June 1997, the group released their third studio album \"EV3\", which went platinum. Throughout the years, Herron continued to record on the group's album: \"Masterpiece Theatre\" (2000), \"The Gift of Christmas\" (2002), and \"Soul Flower\" (2004). Following the release of \"Soul Flower\", Herron chose not to tour with En Vogue during the latter part of 2004 due to being on maternity leave again, but returned to the group the following year. \n\nIn 2012, Herron and fellow member Terry Ellis sued now-former member Maxine Jones demanding $1 million for unauthorized use of the name, though the damages request was ultimately determined to be without merit, as Herron and Ellis could not demonstrate harm done to the company from Jones's use of the name (although Robinson was named in the suit, she was not directly involved in the dispute, as she had surrendered her rights to use the name herself when she departed from the LLC years earlier). However, the judge decided to award full rights of the \"En Vogue\" name to Herron and Ellis. \n\nIn July 2014, Herron signed to Pyramid Records along with fellow member Ellis and Rhona Bennett. In November 2014, they released \"An En Vogue Christmas\". In February 2015, Rufftown Entertainment filed a lawsuit against En Vogue, which names Herron and Ellis for breach of contract. Rufftown owner Rene Moore is seeking $310 million from the group.\n\nHerron is a classically trained soprano. Possessing a two-octave range, Herron sang second soprano and alternated with Dawn Robinson when she was a member of the group, and even sang lower harmonies when Maxine led songs.\n\nHerron has been married to former MLB player Glenn Braggs since June 1993. Together, they have four children; Donovan Andrew Braggs (born March 17, 1994), Jordan Braggs (born April 22, 1998), Natalia Braggs (born 1999) and Solomon Braggs.\n"}
{"id": "2314180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314180", "title": "Flag of Guadeloupe", "text": "Flag of Guadeloupe\n\nGuadeloupe, an overseas region and department of France located in the Caribbean, has no flag with official status other than the French national flag. In addition to the French flag, an inscribed regional logo on a white field is often used as regional flag, similar to the practice in Mayotte and Réunion. The logo of Guadeloupe shows a stylized sun and bird on a green and blue square with the subscript \"REGION GUADELOUPE\" underlined in yellow.\n\nA locally used unofficial flag, based on the coat of arms of Guadeloupe's capital Basse-Terre has a black or red field with a yellow sun and a green sugar cane, and a blue stripe with yellow fleurs-de-lis on the top.\nThe independentist People's Union for the Liberation of Guadeloupe has proposed a national flag very similar to that of Suriname.\n\nThe French \"tricolore\" is the official national flag used in Guadeloupe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314185", "title": "Salma bint Umays", "text": "Salma bint Umays\n\nSalma bint Umays () was a sahaba of Muhammad.\n\nShe was from the Khath'am tribe. Her father was Umays ibn Maadd, and her mother was Hind bint Awf from the Himyar tribe. Her full siblings were Asma bint Umays and Awn ibn Umays, and her maternal half-siblings included Maymuna bint al-Harith, Lubaba bint al-Harith and Mahmiya ibn al-Jaz'i. Salma and her sister Asma were among the early converts to Islam.\n\nShe married Hamza ibn Abd al-Muttalib, and they had one daughter, Umama. Salma and Umama joined the emigration to Medina in 622; but after Hamza was killed at the battle of Uhud, they returned to Mecca. Salma then married Shaddad ibn al-Had, who was from the Layth clan of the Bakr tribe, and they had one son, Abdullah.\n\nSalma was still living in Mecca in March 629, when Muhammad visited to perform the minor pilgrimage. At that time, Ali took her daughter Umama away to live among the Muslims in Medina.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314197", "title": "Computed tomography laser mammography", "text": "Computed tomography laser mammography\n\nComputed tomography laser mammography (CTLM) is the trademark of Imaging Diagnostic Systems, Inc. (IDSI, United States) for its optical tomographic technique for female breast imaging.\n\nThis medical imaging technique uses laser energy in the near infrared region of the spectrum, to detect angiogenesis in the breast tissue. It is optical molecular imaging for hemoglobin both oxygenated and deoxygenated. The technology uses laser in the same way computed tomography uses X-Rays, these beams travel through tissue and suffer attenuation.\n\nA laser detector measures the intensity drop and the data is collected as the laser detector moves across the breast creating a tomography image.\nCTLM images show hemoglobin distribution in a tissue and can detect areas of Angiogenesis surrounding malignant tumors, that stimulate this angiogenesis to obtain nutrients for growth.\n\nBreast cancer affects 1 in 8 women, and an estimated 27% of people live at least 5 years after being diagnosed with Stage IV cancer according to the National Cancer Institute. Mammography is the most commonly used method to screen for cancer, but there are three major drawbacks. The first is ionizing radiation. Since mammography uses low-energy x-rays to image the breast, the breast is exposed to ionizing radiation. Too much repeated exposure can elevate the risk of cancer down the road. The second drawback is inaccuracy. Mammography has pretty low specificity and this can lead to false positives, which detect abnormalities that never progress to cause symptoms or death and also false negatives, especially in dense breast tissue, when it is especially difficult to detect tumors. 60 to 80 out of every 100 biopsies performed after mammography are actually negative for cancer. And lastly, pain is a major drawback to mammography.  23-95% experience discomfort, and pain is a significant inhibitor to re-attending screenings.\nCTLM was therefore developed as an alternative to X-Ray mammography. Its technology is based on two important principles:\n\n(1) Different tissues have different absorption coefficients\n\n(2) Malignant tumors have high rates of neovascularization\n\nNeovascularization is the natural formation of new blood vessels.\nUltimately, there are multiple benefits to this developing technology. It is pretty fast, only taking 15-20 minutes per picture and it uses non-ionizing near-infrared light, which allows patients to take repeat images. It also suspends the breast, which prevents pain while imaging.\nCurrently, it is undergoing FDA approval, and it being proposed as an adjunct to mammography.\nCTLM is a non-invasive practical system that uses near-infrared laser light propagation through the tissue to assess its optical properties. [1] It is based on two basic principles: different tissue components have unique scattering and absorption characteristics for each wavelength and the malignant tumor growth requires neovascularization to grow beyond 2 mm in size. In new forming tumors, the blood flow increases and the CTLM then looks for high hemoglobin concentration (angiogenesis) in the breast that are structurally and functionally abnormal, and to detect neovascularization, which may be hidden in mammography images especially in dense breast [2,3,4]. This neovascularization, which results in a greater volume of hemoglobin in a confined area, can be visualized using absorption measurements of laser light. Malignant lesions will be detected based on their higher optical attenuation compared to the surrounding tissue, which is mainly related to the increase in light absorption by their higher hemoglobin content [5].\nThe CTLM device uses a laser diode than emits laser light at an 808 nm wavelength in the NIR spectrum that matches the crossover point of strong absorption of both oxygenated and deoxygenated hemoglobin [8]. At this wavelength, water, fat, and skin can only weakly absorb light, having little effect on data acquisition. The 808 nm laser beam can penetrate breast tissue of any density, and thus can work equally well in the examination and imaging of extremely dense and heterogeneous breast tissue. CTLM looks for the areas of high absorption, where there is a high hemoglobin concentration indicating rich network of blood vessels, or angiogenesis. The area of angiogenesis is generally much larger than the tumor itself, and hence CTLM can detect small tumors that are sometimes invisible if using other imaging modalities, such as mammogram. However, the dispersion of photons in the tissue, although safe, can create a problem in the prediction of the path of the light in the tissue due to scattering. To solve this problem, CTLM system uses a large number of source and detector positions to take into account the diffusion approximation of light propagation in tissue, and to show the location of the increased vascularity in the breast [7].\n\nThe data acquisition of CTLM is very similar to standard CT. The major difference is that CTLM uses light, not X-ray, to produce the images. The patient lies on a padded table in the prone position with one breast suspended in the scanning chamber with nothing in contact with the pendant breast. The breast is surrounded by the laser source-detector unit that consists of a well containing two rings with 84 detectors each and a single laser mounted on a circular platform. This working array of CTLM device rotates 360 degrees around the breast and takes approximately 16,000 absorption measurements per slice. It then descends to scan the next level after each rotation, creating a slice at each step of thickness 2 or 4 mm, depending on the size of the breast [4]. A total of at least 10 slices was obtained, and the duration for the examination ranged from 10 to 15 minutes for an average sized patient. \nReconstruction of the CTLM images is performed slice by slice. The forward model, an estimate of the average optical absorption, is computed for each slice, using the diffusion approximation of the transport equation [9]. It is then compared to the computed tomographic fan-beam measurement of the absorbing perturbations in the slice [4]. These perturbation data are then reconstructed into slice images using a highly modified proprietary filtered back-projection algorithm that converts the fan-beam data into sinographics. It also corrects for geometric distortions due to bulk light-tissue interaction, and compensates for a spatially variant blurring effect that is typical of diffuse optical imaging [10, 11].\n3D images visualization is available immediately after data acquisition. The areas containing well-perfused structures with high hemoglobin concentration are visualized in white or light green, and the areas with no vascularization are seen as dull green or black. Mathematical algorithms reconstruct 3-dimensional translucent images that can be rotated along any axis in real time. In 3D space, the images are analyzed in two different projections, maximum intensity projection (MIP) and front to back projection (FTB), also known as a Surface Rendering Mode [6]. These two modes combined are used to evaluate the vascularization patterns and to distinguish a normal vessel from an abnormal vascularization. Although some benign lesion also showed angiogenesis, increased absorption was observed significantly more often in malignant than in benign lesions. Studies have shown that the shape and texture of angiogenesis in CTLM images are significant characteristics to differentiate malignancy or benign lesions. A computer-aided diagnosis framework containing three main stages, volume of interest (VOI), feature extraction and classification, is used to enhance the performance of radiologist in the interpretation of CTLM images. 3D Fuzzy segmentation technique has been implemented to extract the VOI [1].\n\nThree independent views are offered: the coronal, sagittal, and transverse views. These views can also form a composite 3D view. Since breast vasculature is arranged radially, the vessels are enlarged in a parallel view, but become narrow in a perpendicular view. An inverse factor is applied to the image so that the high vasculature areas appear white on the image while the black areas are relatively avascular segments. Benign lesions and implants are usually not visualized. \n\nTwo reconstruction modes are offered with CTLM: Front to Back Reconstruction and Maximal Intensity Projection. These two modes are used to evaluate the vascularization patterns to determine whether the images have normal or abnormal vascularization. Also, because tumor neovasculature is not limited to the tumor's anatomical border, CTLM will also reveal all recruited arteries and areas of increased circulation. This is an advantage to identify very small tumors.\nDr. Eric Milne conducted a small localized studying using CTLM as an adjunct to mammography, and he discovered that out of 122 cases, the number of biopsies required reduced from 89 to 47. Additionally, the sensitivity of CTLM is equal to mammography, but has much greater specificity.\nImaging Diagnostic Systems is a Florida-based company that has created a CTLM imaging device. However, in 2011 it was classified as a Class III medical device, and it is still undergoing approval.\n\nCTLM has uses a near infrared laser of wavelength ~808 nm which is not impeded by the dense breast tissue. The sensitivity of mammography, CTLM and mammography+CTLM was 34.4%, 74.4% and  81.57% respectively among extremely dense breasts and 68.29%, 85.00% and 95.34% respectively among heterogeneously dense breasts[7]. The combination of CTLM and mammography is able to distinguish between benign and malignant tumors with higher accuracy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314198", "title": "Bear-leader", "text": "Bear-leader\n\nA bear-leader was formerly a man who led bears about the country. In the Middle Ages and the Tudor period, these animals were chiefly used in the blood sport of bear-baiting and were led from village to village. Performing bears were also common; their keepers were generally Frenchmen or Italians.\n\nLater, the phrase \"bear-leader\" came colloquially to mean a tutor or guardian, who escorted any young man of rank or wealth on his travels.\n"}
{"id": "2314205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314205", "title": "Lord Leycester Hotel", "text": "Lord Leycester Hotel\n\nThe Lord Leycester Hotel, often known simply as the Lord Leycester, is a former hotel in Warwick, England, that is located on Jury Street in the centre of the town. The building has variously been private housing, a hotel, and an inn during its history. Both the main building and the annexe are Grade II-listed buildings.\n\nJury Street House was built in the 16th century, and was originally the property of Ward of Barford, an Elizabethan merchant. In 1654 it was purchased by Sir Simon Archer, MP then local Justice of the Peace, as his town residence.\n\nIn 1694, it was the 0.5 metre thick stone walls of Jury Street House that prevented the Great Fire of Warwick, which destroyed the town's centre, from progressing down Jury Street to the half-timbered houses beyond. In the 18th century the town centre was rebuilt in Georgian style, and Jury Street House was given the Georgian frontage that it has retained to 2005.\n\nThe Archer family of Umberslade in Tanworth-in-Arden, who added the frontage and made extensive alterations, then turned Jury Street House into the Three Tuns Inn. In 1800 the inn was sold to John Evans, who divided it into two town houses, numbers 17 and 19 Jury Street. In 1925, Arthur Henry Tyack, the then owner of the Warwick Arms hotel, bought 19 Jury Street in order to turn it into a hotel, and opened the Lord Leycester hotel in 1926. In 1927 Tyack bought 17 Jury Street as well and combined the two back into a single whole.\n\nDuring World War II, the hotel was requisitioned for use by the Ministry of Production. It was handed over to the United States military in 1943, which used it as an Officers' Club, adding the \"tower\" extension. At the end of the war, the hotel was handed back to Tyack.\n\nIn 1967 the hotel was bought by Norfolk Hotels, and in 1998 it was bought by Hoby Hotels. It closed in summer 2016 for conversion to residential use.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314207", "title": "Lord Leycester Hospital", "text": "Lord Leycester Hospital\n\nThe Lord Leycester Hospital (often known simply as the Lord Leycester) is one of the best preserved examples of medieval courtyard architecture in England and is a charity supporting ex-servicemen. It is located in Warwick, England, next to the West Gate, on High Street. It is a Grade I listed building. The Hospital is a prominent and internationally famous feature of Warwick. For almost 900 years buildings have been erected and civic activity has taken place on the site, starting with the chapel built in 1126. The site was donated by the 12th Earl of Warwick in the 14th century to the United Guild of the Holy Trinity and St George. The Guild Hall, Great Hall and Master's House were constructed in the late 15th century. Over the centuries, the ancient buildings and 500 year old gardens have been admired by many famous visitors such as Charles Dickens and Oscar Wilde, by Kings and Queens, such as King George V and the Queen Mother and ordinary travellers from around the world.\n\nThe Lord Leycester Hospital started life as just the Chapel of St James the Great which was built over the West Gate of Warwick in 1126 by Roger de Newburgh, 2nd Norman Earl of Warwick.\n\nIn the late 14th century, it was rebuilt by the 12th Earl of Warwick. He granted the benefice of the Chapel in 1386 to the Guild of St George, a guild created on 20 April 1383 under licence from King Richard II. The Guild of the Holy Trinity and the Guild of the Blessed Virgin Mary joined them to form the United Guilds of Warwick. Living quarters and public rooms were added to the chapel including the Great Hall. These form the courtyard of the Lord Leycester that we see today.\n\nThe Guildhall was built in 1450 by Neville \"The Kingmaker\", the 16th Earl of Warwick. It was primarily used as a private chamber where the Guilds met to discuss business. The table found in the center of the Guildhall is thought to have been the original table used by the United Guilds of Warwick where they discussed matters such as trade religion and politics.\n\nThe United Guilds were dispersed by King Henry VIII in 1546. However, their property had already been transferred to the Burgesses of Warwick by Thomas Oken, Master of the Guilds. The burgesses used the property for meetings and for teaching as, what is now, Warwick School.\n\nThe 1st Earl of Leicester acquired the buildings in 1571, founding therein a hospital for aged or injured soldiers and their wives, under royal charter from Queen Elizabeth I, run by 12 resident \"Brethren\" (originally soldiers) under the charge of a \"Master\", and funded from the income of various estates.\n\nIn 1617 the Great Hall was used to entertain King James I on his visit to Warwick. The town was in debt for ten years as a result! Behind the back wall of the Great Hall is a plaque commemorating the occasion of the visit of the King but for an unknown reason it was covered over in Victorian times.\n\nIn 1694, the Great Fire of Warwick started at the Friends Meeting House in Warwick, across the High Street from the Lord Leycester Hospital. The fire was driven up the High Street by a strong South-Westerly wind and consumed virtually all buildings in its path. Thus, the original medieval timber-framed houses were destroyed and, in due course, replaced by the handsome stone and brick built buildings that you see today. Of the ancient buildings, only the Lord Leycester Hospital and its near neighbours survive.\n\nThe chapel was extensively restored by Sir Gilbert Scott in 1860. The story goes that a representative of his was called from dinner by worried townspeople who thought the chapel may fall down into the High Street. This included the addition of the flying buttresses which today skirt the chapel.\n\nIn 1956 the Corporation of the Master and Brethren of the Hospital was abolished by Act of Parliament and replaced with a board of Governors. On 3 November 1966 a restored Hospital with modernised quarters was opened by Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother.\n\nToday the Hospital is run by the Master, a retired officer of the Armed Forces. Eight ex-servicemen and their wives are provided with flats in return for their past services: they act as guides for visitors. The Hospital is funded by visitor income, the original estates having been sold over the years. Heidi Meyer, the first woman to hold the office, was installed as Master in November 2017.\n\nOther historical notes of interest include the fact that the Grade I listed stone urn in the Master's Garden is 2,000 years old and was originally part of an Egyptian nilometer. The Museum of the Queen's Own Hussars formed part of the collections of the hospital until it closed in 2016.\n\nThe carvings, notably the famous Warwick icon of the bear and ragged staff (or \"baculus\") and the two-tailed lion from the Dudley family coat of arms, illustrate the renowned craftsmanship in wood of Warwick men. The fine stained glass in the eastern window is the work of the Birmingham firm of Clayton & Bell. Above the south door is a gem of a window by William Morris who also designed the hangings around the altar. Every weekday morning (except Mondays) the Master and Brethren gather for prayers in exactly the same wording directed by Robert Dudley almost 450 years before.\n\nApart from the floor, heating system and public restrooms at the far end, the Hall has changed very little in structure and appearance from the 1300s. It was used by the Guilds for public functions and this has been resumed today for dinners, dances, receptions, concerts and meetings.\n\nThe Guildhall, today, is used as display space for many of the artifacts collected throughout history. This includes a selection of weaponry, including flintlock muskets sent \"by the crown\" to the Brethren at the time of the Chartist Riots, Napoleonic swords, thought to have come from the Battle of Waterloo and a cannonball dug up from the Battle of Edge Hill.\n\nBelow is a list of weaponry that is featured in the Guildhall:\n\nThe soldiers living within the walls of the medieval building are known as the Brethren. The Master and the Brethren share a legacy of almost 450 years of history. They meet in the Chapel every day to pray together the words written by their founder the 1st Earl of Leicester. They are dressed in ceremonial uniforms and give tours through the buildings and gardens to the visitors. The public cafe based in the hospital is named \"The Brethren's Kitchen\".\n\nA list of masters of the Lord Leycester Hospital is as follows:\nThe building has been used in many historical-set television productions including \"Pride and Prejudice\", \"Tom Jones\", \"Moll Flanders\", \"\", \"A Christmas Carol\" and the 2007 \"Doctor Who\" episode \"The Shakespeare Code\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2314210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314210", "title": "Jolly Jumper", "text": "Jolly Jumper\n\nJolly Jumper is a horse character in the Franco-Belgian comics series \"Lucky Luke\", created by Belgian artist Morris. Described as \"the smartest horse in the world\" and able to perform tasks such as chess-playing and tightrope walking, Jolly Jumper accompanies his master in their travels across the Wild West, and delivers frequent quips. In the Greek version of the series, Jolly Jumper is female and is called \"Dolly\". \n\nJolly Jumper first appeared along with Lucky Luke in the story \"Arizona 1880\", published in the \"Almanach\" issue of the Franco-Belgian comics magazine \"Spirou\" on December 7, 1946. In his earlier appearances, he was more like a real horse, which started to change after René Goscinny became the series' main writer.\n\nJolly Jumper is a white horse with a brownish spot on his left side and a blond mane. He dislikes dogs, as seen in \"Sur la piste des Daltons\" where he continuously directs offensive comments towards the unintelligent prison-dog Rantanplan. Extraordinarily apt and anthropomorphic, the character is very resourceful in adventure and crises, and mischievous as in \"Le Bandit Manchot\", when he beats Lucky Luke in a dice game, winning the role-reversal to be carried on Lucky Luke's back. As an intelligent, yet silent character, Jolly often functions as an audience substitute, and will comment on the plot with exasperation or sarcasm. He is not as eager to jump into new adventures as his master is, but will follow him wherever he goes, and it has been shown in the prequel comics that the two grew up together.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314211", "title": "Patient (memoir)", "text": "Patient (memoir)\n\nPatient is the name of a 192-page memoir by musician Ben Watt. It was published May 1, 1997 by Penguin Books (). The book dealt largely with Watt's experience with a rare disease, Churg-Strauss syndrome, and his recovery.\n\nThe book was listed as a \"New York Times\" Notable Book of the Year, a \"Sunday Times\" Book Of The Year chosen by William Boyd and \"Village Voice\" Literary Supplement Favorite Book of the Year, and was also a finalist for the Esquire-Waterstones Best Non-Fiction Award in the UK.\n"}
{"id": "2314217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314217", "title": "Portland, Rutland, Oswego and Chicago Railroad", "text": "Portland, Rutland, Oswego and Chicago Railroad\n\nThe Portland, Rutland, Oswego and Chicago Railroad was a plan for a railroad between Portland, Maine and Chicago, Illinois, proposed as the first step of a transcontinental railroad. The plans were made by John A. Poor of Portland in the 1860s, but he died in 1871 before they could be finalized.\n\nThe Portland and Rutland Railroad was chartered in Maine on March 6, 1868 and in New Hampshire on July 3, 1868. The companies were authorized to build a railroad from Portland west to Danbury, New Hampshire on the Northern Railroad. From Danbury to White River Junction, Vermont, the line would use the Northern Railroad, and it would use the full length of the Woodstock Railroad west to Woodstock, Vermont. The Rutland and Woodstock Railroad was chartered to continue the line to Rutland.\n\nThe New England and Oswego Railroad was chartered in 1870 in New York, as a connection from Fort Ann on the Rensselaer and Saratoga Railroad's Saratoga and Whitehall Railroad west to the port of Oswego on Lake Ontario. Between Rutland and Fort Ann traffic would use the R&S's Troy, Salem and Rutland Railroad, Rutland and Whitehall Railroad and Saratoga and Whitehall Railroad.\nIn 1871 the Portland and Rutland, Rutland and Woodstock and New England and Oswego merged to form the Portland, Rutland, Oswego and Chicago Railroad, planned to continue west from Oswego along the Lake Ontario Shore Railroad, Canada Southern Railway and Michigan Air-Line Railroad to Chicago. In July of that year, five of the six independent companies along the line agreed to merge, and a meeting was scheduled for September 29 to try again. However, John A. Poor died on September 5 and the project died. The three companies west of Oswego went on to become part of the New York Central Railroad system.\n\n"}
{"id": "2314221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314221", "title": "Benchema-Nkatieso", "text": "Benchema-Nkatieso\n\nBenchema and Nkatieso are neighboring villages in the Juabeso district, a district in the southwest quadrant of Western Region of Ghana, about 86 miles east of the Ivorian border.\n\nThe Sefwis of Benchema and Nkatieso speak a dialect of the Akan language, and the village's collective literacy rate is nearly 90%. Benchema's area is 23 km², and that of Nkatieso 31 km², making a total of 54 km².\n\nTogether, Benchema and Nkatieso form a community jointly sustained by local food production and outside trade.\n\nEach of the villages boasts of both public and private primary schools and middle schools, but the closest high school is located in another municipality five miles away—along with the nearest police station.\n\nBuses travelling on unpaved roads is the major form of transportation to major cities; Kumasi, the Ghana's second largest city, is a two-hour bus-ride from Benchema-Nkatieso. Kumasi is also home to the university nearest to Benchema-Nkatieso, the Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology. Wiawso Teacher Training College in Sefwi-Wiawso is 22-miles from here. University of Mines and Technology (UDS) in Tarkwa, Western Region is about three hours drive from Benchema-Nkatieso.\n\nAlthough Benchema and Nkatieso are connected to Ghana's power grid, the villages do not have a water supply network. Instead, boreholes provide safe drinking water for the residents. The Wiawso-Benchema Trunk Road is completed and also available. The tarring of the road from Wiawso to Benchema would make travelling along the Accra-Kumas-Bibiani-Wiawso-Benchema Highway very easy and time saving. Goods and services are transported to the towns and at a lower cost. The project is funded by the Ghana Highway Authority (GHA) through the Government of Ghana (GoG).\n"}
{"id": "2314233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314233", "title": "Onufry Zagłoba", "text": "Onufry Zagłoba\n\nJan Onufry Zagłoba is a fictional character in the \"Trilogy\" by Henryk Sienkiewicz. Together with other characters of \"The Trilogy\", Zagłoba engages in various adventures, fighting for the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, and seeking adventures and glory. Zagłoba is seen as one of Sienkiewicz most popular and significant characters. While he has often been compared to Shakespearean character of Falstaff, he also goes through extensive character development, becoming a jovial and cunning hero.\n\nAfter meeting another character of the \"Trilogy\", Jan Skrzetuski, Zagłoba, until now living a meaningless life of a lesser noble, trying to survive by exploiting the good faith of others, becomes drawn into the company of hero-like personas, and slowly changes, to become worthy of their trust and friendship. Together with them, Zagłoba engages in various adventures, fighting for the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, and seeking adventures and glory. During a feast, in a rather drunken state, he was the first to call prince Janusz Radziwiłł a traitor. Eventually he becomes a widely known person, treated with respect by powerful magnates and offering counsel to the king. He was balding and half-blind, known for his love of drinking and story-telling (usually glorifying his own exploits), tendency to poke fun at everyone and everything, later also renowned as a cunning tactician.\n\nHis coat of arms is Wczele or Zagłoba.\n\nZagłoba appears in Sienkiewicz's \"The Trilogy\" series of three books: \"With Fire and Sword\" (Ogniem i Mieczem) and \"The Deluge\" (Potop), and the last part of the series, \"Colonel Wolodyjowski\" (Pan Wołodyjowski).'\n\nStanisław Kozłowsk notes that Zagłoba is seen as one of Sienkiewicz most popular and significant characters. Roman Dyboski wrote that Zagłoba's humorous persona was one of the most enduring of Sienkiewicz characters. Horst Frenz wrote that Zagłoba \"belongs forever to the gallery of immortal comic characters of world literature, and he is thoroughly original.\"\n\nHe has been often compared to the Shakespearean character of Falstaff. This comparison, made by Dyboski and others, is often based on his propensity for drinking and partying, sharp tongue and cunning, cowardice, and telling exaggerated tales of his youthful adventures. Unlike Falstaff, he grows to become a more mature character, and this transformation can be observed in the first book, beginning with the moment where he decides to risk his life to protect the proverbial damsel in distress, Helena, in the midst of the ongoing Chmielnicki uprising. This transformation is likely the most crucial difference between Zagłoba and Falstaff. Sienkiewicz himself wrote about Zagłoba and Falstaff thus:\n\nWilliam Lyon Phelps notes that if Zagłoba is a copy of Falstaff, he is as good as the original, a feat he applauds Sienkiewicz for. Edward Bolland Osborn notes he is too complex to be compared to only one character, and has a qualities of many, preferring to describe him as a caricature \"of the Polish character in the last days of the chevalerie, when the sabre was still the final argument and [Poland] was the chief bulwark of the Christendom against the vast armies of [the Turks].\". In political views, Zagłoba is a model petty Polish noble from the times of sejmik-dominated Polish politics, a rather intolerant Catholic, vocal supporter of sarmatism values such as Golden Freedoms and liberum veto, seeing the noble class as superior to others.\n\nAnother character Zagłoba has been compared to is Odysseus (Ulysses), due to their cunning mind, always full of plans and strategies. He has also been compared to a number of other characters, such as Thersites or the main character of the Roman play \"Miles Gloriosus (The Swaggering Soldier\").\"\n\nStanisław Kozłowski notes that the good-natured and light-hearted portrayal of Zagłoba is used by Sienkiewicz to counterbalance the dark setting of the stories, set during the time of war and devastation. He is the symbol of undying optimism and hope, and a strategist who can find his way out of trouble. He is often considered both a comic figure as well as the patriotic hero, even if the latter more often comes from the necessity of the moment. He is respected for his ideas, intelligence and a sharp tongue. For example, when Swedish king Charles X Gustav promised to give Jan Zamoyski Lublin Voivodeship in hereditary possession for opening the gates of Zamość Zagłoba asked Jan to promise in return that he would give the Swedish king the province of Netherlands in exchange which Jan passed in Latin to a Swedish deputy. Everyone who heard that laughed at the Swedish king.\n\nZagłoba's enduring influence on Polish culture can be seen for example in his appearance in a 2000 Polish television advertisement for the Okocim brewery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314240", "title": "Portuguese Colonial War", "text": "Portuguese Colonial War\n\nThe Portuguese Colonial War (), also known in Portugal as the Overseas War () or in the former colonies as the War of Liberation (), was fought between Portugal's military and the emerging nationalist movements in Portugal's African colonies between 1961 and 1975. The Portuguese fascist regime at the time, the , was overthrown by a military coup in 1974, and the change in government brought the conflict to an end. The war was a decisive ideological struggle in Lusophone Africa, surrounding nations, and mainland Portugal.\n\nThe prevalent Portuguese and international historical approach considers the Portuguese Colonial War as was perceived at the time: a single conflict fought in three separate theaters of operations: Angola, Guinea-Bissau and Mozambique (sometimes including the 1954 Indian Annexation of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and 1961 Indian Annexation of Goa) rather than a number of separate conflicts as the emergent African countries aided each other during the war.\n\nUnlike other European nations during the 1950s and 1960s, the Portuguese regime did not withdraw from its African colonies, or the overseas provinces () as those territories had been officially called since 1951. During the 1960s, various armed independence movements became active: the \nPeople's Movement for the Liberation of Angola, National Liberation Front of Angola, National Union for the Total Independence of Angola in Angola, African Party for the Independence of Guinea and Cape Verde in Portuguese Guinea, and the Mozambique Liberation Front in Mozambique. During the ensuing conflict, atrocities were committed by all forces involved.\n\nThroughout the period Portugal faced increasing dissent, arms embargoes and other punitive sanctions imposed by the international community. By 1973, the war had become increasingly unpopular due to its length and financial costs, the worsening of diplomatic relations with other United Nations members, and the role it had always played as a factor of perpetuation of the entrenched Estado Novo regime and the non-democratic status quo.\n\nThe end of the war came with the Carnation Revolution military coup of April 1974. The withdrawal resulted in the exodus of hundreds of thousands of Portuguese citizens plus military personnel of European, African and mixed ethnicity from the former Portuguese territories and newly independent African nations. This migration is regarded as one of the largest peaceful migrations in the world's history.\n\nThe former colonies faced severe problems after independence. Devastating and violent civil wars followed in Angola and Mozambique, which lasted several decades, claimed millions of lives, and resulted in large numbers of displaced refugees. Economic and social recession, authoritarianism, lack of democracy and other elemental civil and political rights, corruption, poverty, inequality, and failed central planning eroded the initial revolutionary zeal. A level of social order and economic development comparable to what had existed under Portuguese rule, including during the period of the Colonial War, became the goal of the independent territories.\n\nThe former Portuguese territories in Africa became sovereign states, with Agostinho Neto in Angola, Samora Machel in Mozambique, Luís Cabral in Guinea-Bissau, Manuel Pinto da Costa in São Tomé and Príncipe, and Aristides Pereira in Cape Verde as the heads of state.\n\nWhen the Portuguese began trading on the west coast of Africa in the 15th century, they concentrated their energies on Guinea and Angola. Hoping at first for gold, they soon found that slaves were the most valuable commodity available in the region for export. The Islamic Empire was already well-established in the African slave trade, for centuries linking it to the Arab slave trade. However, the Portuguese who had conquered the Islamic port of Ceuta in 1415 and several other towns in current day Morocco in a Crusade against Islamic neighbors, managed to successfully establish themselves in the area. But the Portuguese never established much more than a foothold in either place.\n\nIn Guinea, rival Europeans grabbed much of the trade (mainly slaves) while local African rulers confined the Portuguese to the coast. These rulers then sent enslaved Africans to the Portuguese ports, or to forts in Africa from where they were exported. Thousands of kilometers down the coast, in Angola, the Portuguese found it even harder to consolidate their early advantage against encroachments by Dutch, British and French rivals. Nevertheless, the fortified Portuguese towns of Luanda (established in 1587 with 400 Portuguese settlers) and Benguela (a fort from 1587, a town from 1617) remained almost continuously in Portuguese hands.\n\nAs in Guinea, the slave trade became the basis of the local economy in Angola. Excursions traveled ever farther inland to procure captives that were sold by African rulers; the primary source of these slaves were those captured as a result of losing a war or inter-ethnic skirmish with other African tribes. More than a million men, women and children were shipped from Angola across the Atlantic. In this region, unlike Guinea, the trade remained largely in Portuguese hands. Nearly all the slaves were destined for Brazil.\n\nIn Mozambique, reached in the 15th century by Portuguese sailors searching for a maritime spice trade route, the Portuguese settled along the coast and made their way into the hinterland as \"\" (backwoodsmen). These sertanejos lived alongside Swahili traders and even obtained employment among Shona kings as interpreters and political advisers. One such \"sertanejo\" managed to travel through almost all the Shona kingdoms, including the Mutapa Empire's (Mwenemutapa) metropolitan district, between 1512 and 1516.\n\nBy the 1530s, small bands of Portuguese traders and prospectors penetrated the interior regions seeking gold, where they set up garrisons and trading posts at Sena and Tete on the Zambezi River and tried to establish a monopoly over the gold trade. The Portuguese finally entered into direct relations with the Mwenemutapa in the 1560s. However, the Portuguese traders and explorers settled in the coastal strip with greater success, and established strongholds safe from their main rivals in East Africa – the Omani Arabs, including those of Zanzibar.\n\nPortugal's colonial claim to the region was recognized by the other European powers during the 1880s, during the Scramble for Africa, and the final boundaries of Portuguese Africa were agreed by negotiation in Europe in 1891. At the time Portugal was in effective control of little more than the coastal strip of both Angola and Mozambique, but important inroads into the interior had been made since the first half of the 19th century. In Angola, construction of a railway from Luanda to Malanje, in the fertile highlands, was started in 1885.\n\nWork began in 1903 on a commercially significant line from Benguela all the way inland to the Katanga region, aiming to provide access to the sea for the richest mining district of the Belgian Congo. The line reached the Congo border in 1928. In 1914, both Angola and Mozambique had Portuguese army garrisons of around 2,000 men, African troops led by European officers. With the outbreak of World War I in 1914, Portugal sent reinforcements to both colonies, because the fighting in the neighboring German African colonies was expected to spill over the borders into its territories.\n\nAfter Germany declared war on Portugal in March 1916 the Portuguese government sent more reinforcements to Mozambique (the South Africans had captured German South West Africa in 1915). These troops supported British, South African and Belgian military operations against German colonial forces in German East Africa. In December 1917, German colonial forces led by Colonel Paul von Lettow-Vorbeck invaded Mozambique from German East Africa. Portuguese, British and Belgian forces spent all of 1918 chasing Lettow-Vorbeck and his men across Mozambique, German East Africa and Northern Rhodesia. Portugal sent a total of 40,000 reinforcements to Angola and Mozambique during World War I.\n\nBy this time the regime in Portugal had been through two major political upheavals: from monarchy to republic in 1910 and then to a military dictatorship after a coup in 1926. These changes resulted in a tightening of Portuguese control in Angola. In the early years of the expanded colony, there was near constant warfare between the Portuguese and the various African rulers of the region. A systematic campaign of conquest and pacification was undertaken by the Portuguese. One by one the local kingdoms were overwhelmed and abolished.\n\nBy the middle of the 1920s the whole of Angola was under control. Slavery had officially ended in Portuguese Africa, but the plantations were worked on a system of paid serfdom by African labour composed of the large majority of ethnic Africans who did not have resources to pay Portuguese taxes and were considered unemployed by the authorities. After World War II and the first decolonization events, this system gradually declined. However, paid forced labor, including labor contracts with forced relocation of people, continued in many regions of Portuguese Africa until it was finally abolished in 1961.\n\nIn the late 1950s, the Portuguese Armed Forces saw themselves confronted with the paradox generated by the dictatorial regime of the \"Estado Novo\" that had been in power since 1933: on the one hand, the policy of Portuguese neutrality in World War II placed the Portuguese Armed Forces out of the way of a possible East-West conflict; on the other hand, the regime felt the increased responsibility of keeping Portugal's vast overseas territories under control and protecting the citizenry there. Portugal joined NATO as a founding member in 1949, and was integrated within the various fledgling military commands of NATO.\n\nNATO's focus on preventing a conventional Soviet attack against Western Europe was to the detriment of military preparations against guerrilla uprisings in Portugal's overseas provinces that were considered essential for the survival of the nation. The integration of Portugal in NATO resulted in the formation of a military élite that were critical in the planning and implementation of operations during the Overseas War. This \"NATO generation\" ascended quickly to the highest political positions and military command without having to provide evidence of loyalty to the regime.\n\nThe Colonial War established a split between the military structure – heavily influenced by the western powers with democratic governments – and the political power of the regime. Some analysts see the \"Botelho Moniz coup\" of 1961 (also known as \"A Abrilada\") against the Portuguese government and backed by the U.S. administration, as the beginning of this rupture, the origin of a lapse on the part of the regime to keep up a unique command center, an armed force prepared for threats of conflict in the colonies. This situation caused, as would be verified later, a lack of coordination between the three general staffs (Army, Air Force and Navy).\n\nThe United States supported the Union of Peoples of Angola (UPA – \"União dos Povos de Angola\"), headed by Holden Roberto. With this support, the Congo-Léopoldville-based UPA attacked Portuguese settlers and Africans living in Angola from bases in the Congo. Many of the African farm workers living in northern Angola worked under labor contracts that required seasonal relocation of workers from the desertified Southwest and Bailundo areas of Angola. Photos of Africans killed by the UPA, which included photos of decapitated civilians, men, women and children of both white and black ethnicity, would later be displayed in the UN by Portuguese diplomats. The emergence of labor protests, attacks by newly organized guerrilla movements, and the Santa Maria hijacking by Henrique Galvão began a path to open warfare in Angola.\n\nAccording to historical researchers like José Freire Antunes, U.S. President John F. Kennedy sent a message to President António de Oliveira Salazar advising Portugal to abandon its African colonies shortly after the outbreak of violence in 1961. Instead, after a coup led by pro-U.S. forces failed to depose him, Salazar consolidated power and immediately sent reinforcements to the overseas territories, setting the stage for continued conflict in Angola. Similar scenarios would play out in other overseas Portuguese territories.\n\nBy the 1950s, the European mainland Portuguese territory was inhabited by a society that was poorer and had a much higher illiteracy rate than the average Western European societies or those of North America. It was ruled by an authoritarian and conservative right-leaning dictatorship, known as the Estado Novo regime. By this time, the Estado Novo regime ruled both the Portuguese mainland and several centuries-old overseas territories as theoretically co-equal departments. The possessions were Angola, Cape Verde, Macau, Mozambique, Portuguese Guinea, Portuguese India, Portuguese Timor, São João Baptista de Ajudá and São Tomé and Príncipe.\n\nIn reality, the relation of mainland Portuguese to their overseas possessions was that of colonial administrator to a subservient colony. Political, legislative, administrative, commercial and other institutional relations between the colonies and Portugal-based individuals and organizations were numerous, though migration to, from, and between Portugal and its overseas departments was limited in size, due principally to the long distance and low annual income of the average Portuguese as well that of the indigenous overseas populations.\n\nAn increasing number of African anti-colonial movements called for total independence of the overseas African territories from Portugal. Some, like the U.S.-backed UPA wanted national self-determination, while others wanted a new form of government based on Marxist principles. Portuguese leaders, including Salazar, attempted to stave off calls for independence by defending a policy of assimilation, multiracialism, and civilising mission, or Lusotropicalism, as a way of integrating Portuguese colonies, and their peoples, more closely with Portugal itself.\n\nFor the Portuguese ruling regime, the overseas empire was a matter of national interest, to be preserved at all costs. As far back as 1919, a Portuguese delegate to the International Labour Conference in Geneva declared: \"The assimilation of the so-called inferior races, by cross-breeding, by means of the Christian religion, by the mixing of the most widely divergent elements; freedom of access to the highest offices of state, even in Europe – these are the principles which have always guided Portuguese colonisation in Asia, in Africa, in the Pacific, and previously in America.\"\n\nAs late as the 1950s the policy of 'colorblind' access and mixing of races did not extend to all of Portugal's African territories, particularly Mozambique, where in tune with other minority white regimes of the day in southern Africa, the territory was segregated along racial lines. Strict qualification criteria ensured that less than one per cent of black Mozambicans became full Portuguese citizens.\n\nNumerous subsidies were offered by the Estado Novo regime to those Portuguese who agreed to settle in Angola or Mozambique, including a special premium for each Portuguese man who agreed to marry an African woman. Salazar himself was fond of restating the old Portuguese policy maxim that any indigenous resident of Portugal's African territories was in theory eligible to become a member of Portuguese government, even its President. In practice, this never took place, though trained black Africans living in Portugal's overseas African possessions were allowed to occupy positions in a variety of areas including the military, the civil service, the clergy, education, and private business - providing they had the requisite education and technical skills.\nWhile access to basic, secondary and technical education remained poor until the 1960s, a few Africans were able to attend schools locally or in some cases in Portugal itself. This resulted in the advancement of certain black Portuguese Africans who would become prominent individuals during the war and its aftermath, including Samora Machel, Mário Pinto de Andrade, Marcelino dos Santos, Eduardo Mondlane, Agostinho Neto, Amílcar Cabral, Jonas Savimbi, Joaquim Chissano, and Graça Machel. Two state-run universities were founded in Portuguese Africa in the 1962 by the Minister of the Overseas Adriano Moreira (the \"Universidade de Luanda\" in Angola and the \"Universidade de Lourenço Marques\" in Mozambique, awarding a range of degrees from engineering to medicine); however, most of their students came from Portuguese families living in the two territories. Several personalities in Portuguese society, including one of the most idolized sports stars in Portuguese football history, a black football player from Portuguese East Africa named Eusébio, were other examples of efforts towards assimilation and multiracialism in the Post-World War II period.\n\nAccording to Mozambican historian João Paulo Borges Coelho, the Portuguese colonial army was largely segregated along terms of race and ethnicity until 1960. There were originally three classes of soldier in Portuguese overseas service: commissioned soldiers (whites), overseas soldiers (African assimilados), and native or indigenous Africans (indigenato). These categories were renamed to 1st, 2nd and 3rd class in 1960 - which effectively corresponded to the same categories. Later, after official discrimination based on skin colour was outlawed, some Portuguese commanders such as General António de Spínola began a process of \"Africanization\" of Portuguese forces fighting in Africa. In Portuguese Guinea, this included a large increase in African recruitment along with the establishment of all-black military formations such as the \"Black Militias\" (\"Milícias negras\") commanded by Major Carlos Fabião and the \"African Commando Battalion\" (\"Batalhão de Comandos Africanos\") commanded by General Almeida Bruno.\n\nWhile black African soldiers constituted a mere 18% of the total number of troops fighting in Portugal's African territories in 1961, this percentage would rise dramatically over the next thirteen years, with black soldiers constituting over 50% of all government forces fighting in Africa by April 1974. Coelho noted that perceptions of African soldiers varied a good deal among senior Portuguese commanders during the conflict in Angola, Guinea and Mozambique. General Francisco da Costa Gomes, perhaps the most successful counterinsurgency commander, sought good relations with local civilians and employed African units within the framework of an organized counter-insurgency plan. General António de Spínola, by contrast, appealed for a more political and psycho-social use of African soldiers. On the other hand, General Kaúlza de Arriaga, the most conservative of the three, appears to have doubted the reliability of African forces outside his strict control, while continuing to view African soldiers as inferior to Portuguese troops.\n\nNative African troops, although widely deployed were initially employed in subordinate roles as enlisted troops or noncommissioned officers. As the war went on, an increasing number of native Angolans rose to positions of command, though of junior rank. In the late 1950s, after 500 years of colonial rule, not only had Portugal failed to produce any native black governor, headmaster, police inspector, or professor, it had also failed to produce a single commander of senior commissioned rank in the overseas Army. Here Portuguese colonial administrators fell victim to the legacy of their own discriminatory and limited policies in education, which largely barred indigenous black Africans from an equal and adequate education until well after the outbreak of the insurgency. With illiteracy rates approaching 99 per cent and almost no African enrollment in secondary schools, few African candidates could qualify for Portugal's officer candidate programs; most African officers obtained their commission as the result of individual competence and valour on the battlefield.\n\nDespite these handicaps, while the overwhelming majority of black or native African soldiers served in the enlisted ranks, an increasing percentage were serving as noncommissioned or commissioned officers by the 1970s, including such officers as Captain (later Lt. Colonel) Marcelino da Mata, a black Portuguese citizen born of Guinean parents who rose to command from a first sergeant in a road engineering unit to a commander in the elite all-African \"Comandos Africanos\", where he eventually became one of the most-decorated soldiers in the Portuguese Army.\n\nBy the early 1970s, the Portuguese authorities had fully perceived racial discriminatory policies and lack of investment in education as wrong and contrary to their overseas ambitions in Portuguese Africa, and willingly accepted a true color blindness policy with more spending in education and training opportunities, which started to produce a larger number of black high ranked professionals, including military personnel.\n\nAfter the World War II, as communist and anti-colonial ideologies spread across Africa, many clandestine political movements were established in support of independence using various interpretations of Marxist revolutionary ideology. These new movements seized on anti-Portuguese and anti-colonial sentiment to advocate the complete overthrow of existing governmental structures in Portuguese Africa. These Marxist movements alleged that Portuguese policies and development plans were primarily designed by the ruling authorities for the benefit of the territories' ethnic Portuguese population at the expense of local tribal control, the development of native communities, and the majority of the indigenous population, who suffered both state-sponsored discrimination and enormous social pressure to comply with government policies largely imposed from Lisbon. Many felt they had received too little opportunity or resources to upgrade their skills and improve their economic and social situation to a degree comparable to that of the Europeans. Statistically, Portuguese Africa's white Portuguese population were indeed wealthier and more educated than the indigenous majority.\n\nAfter conflict erupted between the UPA and MPLA and Portuguese military forces, U.S. President John F. Kennedy advised António de Oliveira Salazar (via the US consulate in Portugal) that Portugal should abandon Portugal's African colonies. A failed Portuguese military coup known as the \"Abrilada\", attempted in an effort to overthrow the authoritarian Estado Novo regime of António de Oliveira Salazar, received covert U.S. support. In response, Salazar moved to consolidate his power, ordering an immediate military response to the violence occurring in Angola.\n\nAs the war progressed, Portugal rapidly increased its mobilized forces. Under the Salazar regime, a military draft required all males to serve three years of obligatory military service; many of those called up to active military duty were deployed to combat zones in Portugal's African overseas provinces. The national service period was increased to four years in 1967, and virtually all conscripts faced a mandatory two-year tour of service in Africa. The existence of the draft and likelihood of combat in African counterinsurgency operations would over time result in a sharp increase in emigration by Portuguese men seeking to avoid such service. By the end of the Portuguese colonial war in 1974, black African participation had become crucial due to declining numbers of recruits available from Portugal itself.\nWhile Portuguese forces had all but won the guerrilla war in Angola, and had stalemated FRELIMO in Mozambique, colonial forces were forced on the defensive in Guinea, where PAIGC forces had carved out a large area of the rural countryside under effective insurgent control, using Soviet-supplied AA cannon and ground-to-air missiles to protect their encampments from attack by Portuguese air assets. Overall, the increasing success of Portuguese counterinsurgency operations and the inability or unwillingness of guerrilla forces to destroy the economy of Portugal's African territories was seen as a victory for the Portuguese government policies.\n\nThe Soviet Union, realising that military success by insurgents in Angola and Mozambique was becoming increasingly remote, shifted much of its military support to the PAIGC in Guinea, while increasing diplomatic efforts to isolate Portugal from the world community. The success of the socialist bloc in isolating Portugal diplomatically extended inside Portugal itself into the armed forces, where younger officers disenchanted with the Estado Novo regime and promotional opportunities began to identify ideologically with those calling for overthrow of the government and the establishment of a state based on Marxist principles.\n\nBy early 1974, guerrilla operations in Angola and Mozambique had been reduced to sporadic ambush operations against the Portuguese in the rural countryside areas, far from the main centers of population. The only exception was Portuguese Guinea, where PAIGC guerrilla operations, strongly supported by neighbouring allies like Guinea and Senegal, were largely successful in liberating and securing large areas of Portuguese Guinea. According some historians, Portugal recognized its inability to win the conflict in Guinea at the outset, but was forced to fight on to prevent an independent Guinea from serving as an inspirational model for insurgents in Angola and Mozambique.\n\nDespite continuing attacks by insurgent forces against targets throughout the Portuguese African territories, the economies of both Portuguese Angola and Mozambique had actually improved each year of the conflict, as had the economy of Portugal proper. Angola enjoyed an unprecedented economic boom during the 1960s, and the Portuguese government built new transportation networks to link the well-developed and highly urbanized coastal strip with the remote inland regions of the territory.\n\nThe number of ethnic European Portuguese migrants from mainland Portugal (the \"metrópole\") continued to increase as well, though always constituting a small minority of each territory's total population. Nevertheless, the costs of continuing the wars in Africa imposed a heavy burden on Portugal's resources; by the 1970s, the country was spending 40 per cent of its annual budget on the war effort.\n\nGeneral Spínola was dismissed by Dr. Marcelo Caetano, the last prime minister of Portugal under the Estado Novo regime, over the general's publicly announced desire to open negotiations with the PAIGC in Portuguese Guinea. The dismissal caused considerable public indignation in Portugal, and created favorable conditions for a military overthrow of the existing regime, which had lost all public support. On 25 April 1974 a military coup organized by left-wing Portuguese military officers, the Armed Forces Movement (MFA), overthrew the Estado Novo regime in what came to be known as the Carnation Revolution in Lisbon, Portugal.\n\nThe coup resulted in a period of economic collapse and political instability, but received general support from the public in its aim of ending the Portuguese war effort in Africa. In the ex-colonies, officers suspected of sympathizing with the prior regime, even black officers, such as Captain Marcelino da Mata, were imprisoned and tortured, while African soldiers who had served in native Portuguese Army units were forced to petition for Portuguese citizenship or else face reprisals from their former enemies in Angola, Guinea, or Mozambique.\n\nThe Carnation Revolution of 25 April 1974 came as a shock to the United States and other Western powers, as most analysts and the Nixon administration had concluded that Portuguese military success on the battlefield would resolve any political divisions within Portugal concerning the conduct of the war in Portuguese Africa, providing the conditions for US investment there. Most concerned was the apartheid government of South Africa, which launched a deep border incursion operation into Angola to attack guerrilla-controlled areas of the country following the coup.\n\nOn 3 January 1961 Angolan peasants in the region of Baixa de Cassanje, Malanje, boycotted the Cotonang Company's cotton fields where they worked, demanding better working conditions and higher wages. Cotonang, a company owned by Portuguese, British and German investors, used native Africans to produce an annual cotton crop for export abroad. The uprising, later to become known as the Baixa de Cassanje revolt, was led by two previously unknown Angolans, António Mariano and Kulu-Xingu. During the protests, African workers burned their identification cards and attacked Portuguese traders. The Portuguese Air Force responded to the rebellion by bombing twenty villages in the area, allegedly using napalm in an attack that resulted in some 400 indigenous Angolan deaths.\n\nIn the Portuguese Overseas Province of Angola, the call for revolution was taken up by two insurgent groups, the People's Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA), and the União das Populações de Angola (UPA), which became the National Liberation Front of Angola (FNLA) in 1962. The MPLA commenced activities in an area of Angola known as the \"Zona Sublevada do Norte\" (ZSN or the Rebel Zone of the North), consisting of the provinces of Zaire, Uíge and Cuanza Norte.\n\nOn February 4, 1961, using arms largely captured from Portuguese soldiers and police 250 MPLA guerrillas attacked the São Paulo fortress prison and police headquarters in Luanda in an attempt to free what it termed 'political prisoners'. The attack was unsuccessful, and no prisoners were released, but seven Portuguese policemen and forty Angolans were killed, mostly MPLA insurgents. Portuguese authorities responded with a sweeping counterinsurgency response in which over 5,000 Angolans were arrested, and a Portuguese mob raided the \"musseques\" (shanty towns) of Luanda, killing several dozen Angolans in the process.\n\nOn March 15, 1961, the UPA led by Holden Roberto launched an incursion into the Bakongo region of northern Angola with 4,000–5,000 insurgents. The insurgents called for local Bantu farmworkers and villagers to join them, unleashing an orgy of violence and destruction. The insurgents attacked farms, government outposts, and trading centers, killing everyone they encountered, including women, children and newborns.\n\nIn surprise attacks, drunken and buoyed by belief in tribal spells that they believed made them immune to bullets, the attackers spread terror and destruction in the whole area. At least 1,000 Portuguese settlers and an unknown but larger number of indigenous Angolans were killed by the insurgents during the attacks. The violence of the uprising received worldwide press attention and engendered sympathy for the Portuguese, while adversely affecting the international reputation of Roberto and the UPA.\n\nIn response, Portuguese Armed Forces instituted a harsh policy of reciprocity by torturing and massacring rebels and protesters. Some Portuguese soldiers decapitated rebels and impaled their heads on stakes, pursuing a policy of \"an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth\". Much of the initial offensive operations against Angolan UPA and MPLA insurgents was undertaken by four companies of \"Caçadores Especiais\" (\"Special Hunter\") troops skilled in light infantry and antiguerrilla tactics, and who were already stationed in Angola at the outbreak of fighting. Individual Portuguese counterinsurgency commanders such as Second Lieutenant Fernando Robles of the \"6ª Companhia de Caçadores Especiais\" became well known throughout the country for their ruthlessness in hunting down insurgents.\n\nThe Portuguese Army steadily pushed the UPA back across the border into Congo-Kinshasa in a brutal counteroffensive that also displaced some 150,000 Bakongo refugees, taking control of Pedra Verde, the UPA's last base in northern Angola, on 20 September 1961. Within the next few weeks Portuguese military forces pushed the MPLA out of Luanda northeast into the Dembos region, where the MPLA established the \"1st Military Region\". For the moment, the Angolan insurgency had been defeated, but new guerrilla attacks would later break out in other regions of Angola such as Cabinda province, the central plateaus, and eastern and southeastern Angola.\nBy most accounts, Portugal's counterinsurgency campaign in Angola was the most successful of all its campaigns in the Colonial War. Angola is a large territory, and the long distances from safe havens in neighboring countries supporting the rebel forces made it difficult for the latter to escape detection. The distance from the major Angolan urban centers to the neighboring Democratic Republic of the Congo and Zambia were so large that the eastern part of Angola's territory was known by the Portuguese as \"Terras do Fim do Mundo\" (the lands of the far side of the world).\n\nAnother factor was internecine struggles between three competing revolutionary movements – FNLA, MPLA, and UNITA – and their guerrilla armies. For most of the conflict, the three rebel groups spent as much time fighting each other as they did fighting the Portuguese. For example, during the 1961 \"Ferreira Incident\", a UPA patrol captured 21 MPLA insurgents as prisoners, then summarily executed them on 9 October, sparking open confrontation between the two insurgent groups.\n\nStrategy also played a role, as a successful hearts and minds campaign led by General Francisco da Costa Gomes helped blunt the influence of the various revolutionary movements. Finally, as in Mozambique, Portuguese Angola was able to receive support of South Africa. South African military operations proved to be of significant assistance to Portuguese military forces in Angola, who sometimes referred to their South African counterparts as \"primos\" (cousins).\n\nSeveral unique counter-insurgency forces were developed and deployed in the campaign in Angola:\n\n\nIn Portuguese Guinea (also referred to as Guinea at that time), the Marxist African Party for the Independence of Guinea and Cape Verde (PAIGC) started fighting in January 1963. Its guerrilla fighters attacked the Portuguese headquarters in Tite, located to the south of Bissau, the capital, near the Corubal river. Similar actions quickly spread across the entire colony, requiring a strong response from the Portuguese forces.\n\nThe war in Guinea has been termed \"Portugal's Vietnam\". The PAIGC was well-trained, well-led, and equipped and received substantial support from safe havens in neighboring countries like Senegal and the Republic of Guinea (Guinea-Conakry). The jungles of Guinea and the proximity of the PAIGC's allies near the border proved to be of significant advantage in providing tactical superiority during cross-border attacks and resupply missions for the guerrillas.\nThe conflict in Portuguese Guinea involving the PAIGC guerrillas and the Portuguese Army would prove the most intense and damaging of all conflicts in the Portuguese Colonial War, blocking Portuguese attempts to pacify the disputed territory via new economic and socioeconomic policies that had been applied with some success in Portuguese Angola and Portuguese Mozambique. In 1965 the war spread to the eastern part of Guinea; that year, the PAIGC carried out attacks in the north of the territory where at the time only the Front for the Liberation and Independence of Guinea (FLING), a minor insurgent group, was active. By this time, the PAIGC had begun to openly receive military support from Cuba, China and the Soviet Union.\nIn Guinea, the success of PAIGC guerrilla operations put Portuguese armed forces on the defensive, forcing them to limit their response to defending territories and cities already held. Unlike Portugal's other African territories, successful small-unit Portuguese counterinsurgency tactics were slow to evolve in Guinea. Defensive operations, where soldiers were dispersed in small numbers to guard critical buildings, farms, or infrastructure were particularly devastating to the regular Portuguese infantry, who became vulnerable to guerrilla attacks outside of populated areas by the forces of the PAIGC. They were also demoralized by the steady growth of PAIGC liberation sympathizers and recruits among the rural population. In a relatively short time, the PAIGC had succeeded in reducing Portuguese military and administrative control of the territory to a relatively small area of Guinea. The scale of this success can be seen in the fact that native Guineans in the 'liberated territories' ceased payment of debts to Portuguese landowners and the payment of taxes to the colonial administration. The branch stores of the \"Companhia União Fabril\" (CUF), \"Mario Lima Whanon\", and \"Manuel Pinto Brandão\" companies were seized and inventoried by the PAIGC in the areas they controlled, while the use of Portuguese currency in the areas under guerrilla control was banned. In order to maintain the economy in the liberated territories, the PAIGC established its own administrative and governmental bureaucracy at an early stage, which organized agricultural production, educated PAIGC farmworkers on how to protect crops from destruction from aerial attack by the Portuguese Air Force, and opened \"armazens do povo\" (people's stores) to supply urgently needed tools and supplies in exchange for agricultural produce.\n\nIn 1968, General António de Spínola, the Portuguese general responsible for the Portuguese military operations in Guinea, was appointed as governor. General Spínola began a series of civil and military reforms designed to weaken PAIGC control of the Guinea and rollback insurgent gains. This included a 'hearts and minds' propaganda campaign designed to win the trust of the indigenous population, an effort to eliminate some of the discriminatory practices against native Guineans, a massive construction campaign for public works including new schools, hospital, an improved telecommuncations and road network, and a large increase in recruitment of native Guineans into the Portuguese armed forces serving in Guinea as part of an \"Africanization\" strategy.\n\nUntil 1960, Portuguese military forces serving in Guinea were composed of units led by white officers, with commissioned soldiers (whites), overseas soldiers (African assimilados), and native or indigenous Africans (indigenato) serving in the enlisted ranks. General Spínola's Africanization policy eliminated these discriminatory colour bars, and called for the integration of indigenous Guinea Africans into Portuguese military forces in Africa. Two special indigenous African counterinsurgency detachments were formed by the Portuguese Armed Forces. The first of these was the African Commandos (\"Comandos Africanos\"), consisting of a battalion of commandos composed entirely of black soldiers (including the officers). The second was the African Special Marines (\"Fuzileiros Especiais Africanos\"), Marine units entirely composed of black soldiers. The African Special Marines supplemented other Portuguese elite units conducting amphibious operations in the riverine areas of Guinea in an attempt to interdict and destroy guerrilla forces and supplies. General Spínola's Africanization policy also fostered a large increase in indigenous recruitment into the armed forces, culminating the establishment of all-black military formations such as the Black Militias (\"Milícias negras\") commanded by Major Carlos Fabião. By the early 1970s, an increasing percentage of Guineans were serving as noncommissioned or commissioned officers in Portuguese military forces in Africa, including such higher-ranking officers as Captain (later Lt. Colonel) Marcelino da Mata, a black Portuguese citizen born of Guinean parents who rose from a first sergeant in a road engineering unit to a commander in the \"Comandos Africanos\".\n\nDuring the latter part of the 1960s, military tactical reforms instituted by Gen. Spínola began to improve Portuguese counterinsurgency operations in Guinea. Naval amphibious operations were instituted to overcome some of the mobility problems inherent in the underdeveloped and marshy areas of the territory, using \"Destacamentos de Fuzileiros Especiais (DFE)\" (special marine assault detachments) as strike forces. The \"Fuzileiros Especiais\" were lightly equipped with folding-stock m/961 (G3) rifles, 37mm rocket launchers, and light machine guns such as the Heckler & Koch HK21 to enhance their mobility in the difficult, swampy terrain.\nPortugal commenced \"Operação Mar Verde\" or \"Operation Green Sea\" on 22 November 1970 in an attempt to overthrow Ahmed Sékou Touré, the leader of the Guinea-Conakry and staunch PAIGC ally, to capture the leader of the PAIGC, Amílcar Cabral, and to cut off supply lines to PAIGC insurgents. The operation involved a daring raid on Conakry, a PAIGC safe haven, in which 400 Portuguese \"Fuzileiros\" (amphibious assault troops) attacked the city. The attempted coup d'état failed, though the Portuguese managed to destroy several PAIGC ships and free hundreds of Portuguese prisoners of war (POWs) at several large POW camps. One immediate result of \"Operation Green Sea\" was an escalation in the conflict, with countries such as Algeria and Nigeria now offering support to the PAIGC as well as the Soviet Union, which sent warships to the region (known by NATO as the \"West Africa Patrol\") in a show of force calculated to deter future Portuguese amphibious attacks on the territory of the Guinea-Conakry. The United Nations passed several resolutions condemning cross-border attacks of the Portuguese military against the PAIGC guerrilla bases in both neighboring Guinea-Conakry and Senegal, like the United Nations Security Council Resolution 290, United Nations Security Council Resolution 294 and the United Nations Security Council Resolution 295.\n\nBetween 1968 and 1972, the Portuguese forces increased their offensive posture, in the form of raids into PAIGC-controlled territory. At this time Portuguese forces also adopted unorthodox means of countering the insurgents, including attacks on the political structure of the nationalist movement. This strategy culminated in the assassination of Amílcar Cabral in January 1973. Nonetheless, the PAIGC continued to increase its strength, and began to heavily press Portuguese defense forces. This became even more apparent after the PAIGC received heavy radar-guided anti-aircraft cannon and other AA munitions provided by the Soviets, including SA-7 shoulder-launched anti-aircraft missiles, all of which seriously impeded Portuguese air operations.\n\nAfter the Carnation Revolution military coup in Lisbon on 25 April 1974, the new revolutionary leaders of Portugal and the PAIGC signed an accord in Algiers, Algeria in which Portugal agreed to remove all troops by the end of October and to officially recognize the Republic of Guinea-Bissau government controlled by the PAIGC, on 26 August 1974 and after a series of diplomatic meetings. Demobilized by the departing Portuguese military authorities after the independence of Portuguese Guinea had been agreed, a total of 7,447 black Guinea-Bissauan African soldiers who had served in Portuguese native commando forces and militia were summarily executed by the PAIGC after the independence of the new African country.\n\nThe Portuguese Overseas Province of Mozambique was the last territory to start the war of liberation. Its nationalist movement was led by the Marxist-Leninist Liberation Front of Mozambique (FRELIMO), which carried out the first attack against Portuguese targets on September 25, 1964, in Chai, Cabo Delgado Province. The fighting later spread to Niassa, Tete in central Mozambique. A report from Battalion No. 558 of the Portuguese army makes references to violent actions, also in Cabo Delgado, on August 21, 1964.\n\nOn November 16 of the same year, the Portuguese troops suffered their first losses fighting in the north of the territory, in the region of Xilama. By this time, the size of the guerrilla movement had substantially increased; this, along with the low numbers of Portuguese troops and colonists, allowed a steady increase in FRELIMO's strength. It quickly started moving south in the direction of Meponda and Mandimba, linking to Tete with the aid of Malawi.\n\nUntil 1967 the FRELIMO showed less interest in Tete region, putting its efforts on the two northernmost districts of Mozambique where the use of landmines became very common. In the region of Niassa, FRELIMO's intention was to create a free corridor to Zambezia Province. Until April 1970, the military activity of FRELIMO increased steadily, mainly due to the strategic work of Samora Machel in the region of Cabo Delgado.\n\nRhodesia was involved in the war in Mozambique, supporting the Portuguese troops in operations and conducting operations independently. By 1973, the territory was mostly under Portuguese control. The Operation \"\"Nó Górdio\"\" (Gordian Knot Operation) - conducted in 1970 and commanded by Portuguese Brigadier General Kaúlza de Arriaga - a conventional-style operation to destroy the guerrilla bases in the north of Mozambique, was the major military operation of the Portuguese Colonial War. A hotly disputed issue, the Gordian Knot Operation was considered by several historians and military strategists as a failure that worsened the situation for the Portuguese. Others did not share this view, including its main architect, troops, and officials who had participated on both sides of the operation, including high ranked elements from the FRELIMO guerrillas. It was also described as a tremendous success of the Portuguese Armed Forces. Arriaga, however, was removed from his powerful military post in Mozambique by Marcelo Caetano shortly before the events in Lisbon that would trigger the end of the war and the independence of the Portuguese territories in Africa. The reason for Arriaga's abrupt fate was an alleged incident with indigenous civilian populations, and the Portuguese government's suspicion that Arriaga was planning a military coup against Marcelo's administration in order to avoid the rise of leftist influences in Portugal and the loss of the African overseas provinces.\n\nThe construction of the Cahora Bassa Dam tied up nearly 50 percent of the Portuguese troops in Mozambique, and brought the FRELIMO to the Tete Province, closer to some cities and more populated areas in the south. The FRELIMO failed, however, to halt the construction of the dam. In 1974, the FRELIMO launched mortar attacks against Vila Pery (now Chimoio), an important city and the first (and only) heavy populated area to be hit by the FRELIMO.\n\nIn Mozambique special units were also used by the Portuguese Armed Forces:\n\n\n\nThe Organization of African Unity (OAU) was founded May 1963. Its basic principles were co-operation between African nations and solidarity between African peoples. Another important objective of the OAU was an end to all forms of colonialism in Africa. This became the major objective of the organization in its first years and soon OAU pressure led to the situation in the Portuguese colonies being brought up at the UN Security Council.\n\nThe OAU established a committee based in Dar es Salaam, with representatives from Ethiopia, Algeria, Uganda, Egypt, Tanzania, Zaire, Guinea, Senegal, Nigeria, to support African liberation movements. The support provided by the committee included military training and weapon supplies.\n\nThe OAU also took action in order to promote the international acknowledgment of the legitimacy of the Revolutionary Government of Angola in Exile (GRAE), composed by the FNLA. This support was transferred to the MPLA and to its leader, Agostinho Neto in 1967. In November 1972, both movements were recognized by the OAU in order to promote their merger. After 1964, the OAU recognized PAIGC as the legitimate representatives of Guinea-Bissau and Cape Verde and in 1965 recognised FRELIMO for Mozambique.\n\nIn 1961 the Portuguese had 79,000 in arms – 58,000 in the Army, 8,500 in the Navy and 12,500 in the Air force (Cann, 1997). These numbers grew quickly. By the end of the conflict in 1974, due to the Carnation Revolution (a military coup in Lisbon), the total in the Portuguese Armed Forces had risen to 217,000.\n\nPrior to their own Colonial War the Portuguese military had studied French and British efforts in Indo-China, Algeria and Malaya (Cann, 1997). Based on their analysis of operations in those theatres and considering their own situation in Africa, the Portuguese military took the unusual decision to restructure their entire armed forces, from top to bottom, for counterinsurgency. This transformation did, however, take seven years to complete and only took its final form in 1968. By 1974, the counterinsurgency efforts were successful in the Portuguese territories of Angola and Mozambique, but in Portuguese Guinea the local guerrillas were making progress. As the conflict escalated, the Portuguese authorities developed progressively tougher responses, these included the Gordian Knot Operation and the Operation Green Sea.\n\nWhen conflict erupted in 1961, Portuguese forces were badly equipped to cope with the demands of a counter-insurgency conflict. It was standard procedure, up to that point, to send the oldest and most obsolete material to the colonies. Thus, initial military operations were conducted using World War II radios, the old m/937 7.92mm Mauser rifle, the Portuguese m/948 9mm FBP submachine gun, and the equally elderly German m/938 7.92mm (MG 13) Dreyse and Italian 8×59mm RB m/938 (Breda M37) machine guns. Much of Portugal's older small arms came from Germany in various deliveries made mostly before World War II, including the Austrian Steyr/Erma MP 34 submachine gun (m/942). Later, Portugal purchased arms and military equipment from France, West Germany, South Africa, and to a lesser extent, from Belgium, Israel and the US.\n\nSome 9×19mm submachine guns, including the m/942, the Portuguese m/948, and the West-German manufactured version of the Israeli Uzi (known in Portuguese service as the \"Pistola-Metralhadora m/61\") were also used, mainly by officers, NCOs, horse-mounted cavalry, reserve and paramilitary units, and security forces.\nWithin a short time, the Portuguese Army saw the need for a modern selective-fire combat rifle, and in 1961 adopted the 7.62×51mm NATO caliber \"Espingarda m/961\" (Heckler & Koch G3) as the standard infantry weapon for most of its forces, that would be produced in large quantities in the Fábrica do Braço de Prata, a Portuguese small arms producer. However, quantities of the 7.62×51mm FN and Belgian G1 FAL battle rifle, known as the m/962, were also issued; the FAL was a favored weapon of members serving in elite commando units such as the \"Caçadores Especiais\". At the beginning of the war, the elite airborne units (\"Caçadores Pára-quedistas\") rarely used the m/961, having adopted the modern 7.62 mm NATO ArmaLite AR-10 (produced by the Netherlands-based arms manufacturer Artillerie Inrichtingen) in 1960. In the days before attached grenade launchers became standard, Portuguese paratroopers frequently resorted to the use of ENERGA anti-tank rifle grenades fired from their AR-10 rifles. Some Portuguese-model AR-10s were fitted with A.I.-modified upper receivers in order to mount 3× or 3.6× telescopic sights. These rifles were used by marksmen accompanying small patrols to eliminate individual enemy at extended ranges in open country. After the Netherlands embargoed further sales of the AR-10, the paratroop battalions were issued a collapsible-stock version of the regular m/961 (G3) rifle, also in 7.62×51mm NATO caliber.\n\nThe powerful recoil and heavy weight of the 7.62mm NATO cartridge used in Portuguese rifle-caliber arms such as the m/961 limited the amount of ammunition that could be carried as well as accuracy in automatic fire, generally precluding the use of the latter except in emergencies. Instead, most infantryman used their rifles to fire individual shots. While the heavy m/961 and its relatively lengthy barrel were well-suited to patrol operations in open savannah, it tended to put Portuguese infantry at a disadvantage when clearing the low-ceilinged interiors of native buildings or huts, or when moving through thick bush, where ambush by a concealed insurgent with an automatic weapon was always a possibility. In these situations the submachine gun, hand grenade or rifle-launched grenade often became a more useful weapon than the rifle. Spanish rifle grenades were sourced from Instalaza, but in due course, the Dilagrama m/65 was more commonly used, using a derivative of the M26 grenade made under licence by INDEP, the M312.\n\nFor the general purpose machine gun role, the German MG42 in 8mm and later 7.62mm NATO caliber was used until 1968, when the 7.62mm m/968 Metralhadora Ligeira became available.\nTo destroy enemy emplacements, other weapons were employed, including the 37 mm (1.46 in), 60 mm (2.5 in), and 89 mm (3.5 in.) \"Lança-granadas-foguete\" (Bazooka), along with several types of recoilless rifles. Because of the mobile nature of counterinsurgency operations, heavy support weapons were less frequently used. However, the m/951 12.7mm (.50 caliber) U.S. M2 Browning heavy machine gun was used in ground and vehicle mounts, as were 60mm, 81mm, and later, 120mm mortars. Artillery and mobile howitzers were used in a few operations.\n\nMobile ground operations consisted of patrol sweeps by armored car and reconnaissance vehicles. Supply convoys used both armored and unarmored vehicles. Typically, armored vehicles would be placed at the front, center, and tail of a motorized convoy. Several armored cars were used, including the Panhard AML, Panhard EBR, Fox and (in the 1970s) the Chaimite.\nUnlike the Vietnam War, Portugal's limited national resources did not allow for widespread use of the helicopter. Only those troops involved in coups de main attacks (called \"golpe de mão\" in Portuguese) – mainly Commandos and Paratroopers – would deploy by helicopter. Most deployments were either on foot or in vehicles (Berliet and Unimog trucks). The helicopters were reserved for support (in a gunship role) or medical evacuation (MEDEVAC). The Alouette III was the most widely used helicopter, although the Puma was also used with great success. Other aircraft were employed: for air support the T-6 Texan, the F-86 Sabre and the Fiat G.91 were used, along with a quantity of B-26 Invaders covertly acquired in 1965; for reconnaissance the Dornier Do 27 was employed. In the transport role, the Portuguese Air Force originally used the Junkers Ju 52, followed by the Nord Noratlas, the C-54 Skymaster, and the C-47 Skytrain (all of these aircraft were also used for Paratroop drop operations). From 1965, Portugal began to purchase the Fiat G.91 to deploy to its African overseas territories of Mozambique, Guinea and Angola in the close-support role. The first 40 G.91 were purchased second-hand from the Luftwaffe, aircraft that had been produced for Greece and which differed from the rest of the Luftwaffe G.91s enough to create maintenance problems. The aircraft replaced the Portuguese F-86 Sabre.\n\nThe Portuguese Navy (particularly the Marines, known as \"Fuzileiros\") made extensive use of patrol boats, landing craft, and Zodiac inflatable boats. They were employed especially in Guinea, but also in the Congo River (and other smaller rivers) in Angola and in the Zambezi (and other rivers) in Mozambique. Equipped with standard or collapsible-stock m/961 rifles, grenades, and other gear, they used small boats or patrol craft to infiltrate guerrilla positions. In an effort to intercept infiltrators, the \"Fuzileiros\" even manned small patrol craft on Lake Malawi. The Navy also used Portuguese civilian cruisers as troop transports, and drafted Portuguese Merchant Navy personnel to man ships carrying troops and material and into the Marines.\n\nThere were also many Portuguese irregular forces in the Overseas War such as the Flechas and others, as mentioned above.\n\nNative black warriors were employed in Africa by the Portuguese colonial rulers since the 16th century. Portugal had employed regular native troops (\"companhias indigenas\") in its colonial army since the early 19th century. After 1961, with the beginning of the colonial wars in its overseas territories, Portugal began to incorporate black Portuguese Africans into integrated units as part of the war effort in Angola, Portuguese Guinea, and Mozambique, based on concepts of multi-racialism and preservation of the empire. African participation on the Portuguese side of the conflict varied from marginal roles as laborers and informers to participation in highly trained operational combat units like the Flechas. As the war progressed, use of African counterinsurgency troops increased; on the eve of the military coup of 25 April 1974, black ethnic Africans accounted for more than 50 percent of Portuguese forces fighting the war.\n\nFrom 1961 to the end of the Colonial War, the paratrooper nurses nicknamed \"Marias\", were women who served the Portuguese armed forces being deployed in Portuguese Africa's dangerous guerrilla-infiltrated combat zones to perform rescue operations.\n\nThroughout the war period Portugal had to deal with increasing dissent, arms embargoes and other punitive sanctions imposed by most of the international community. The later included UN-sponsored sanctions, Non-Aligned Movement-led defamation, and myriad boycotts and protests performed by both foreign and domestic political organizations, like the clandestine Portuguese Communist Party (PCP). Near the end of the conflict, a report by the controversial priest Adrian Hastings, alleging atrocities and war crimes of the Portuguese military, was printed a week before the Portuguese prime minister Marcelo Caetano was due to visit Britain to celebrate the 600th anniversary of the Anglo-Portuguese alliance in 1973. Portugal's growing isolation following Hastings's claims has often been cited as a factor that helped to bring about the \"carnation revolution\" coup in Lisbon which deposed the Caetano regime in 1974, ending the Portuguese African counter-insurgency campaigns and triggering the rapid collapse of the Portuguese Empire.\n\nThe armament of the nationalist groups came mainly from the Soviet Union, China, Cuba, Eastern Europe. However, they also used small arms of U.S. manufacture (such as the .45 M1 Thompson submachine gun), along with British, French, and German weapons came from neighboring countries sympathetic to the rebellion. Later in the war, most guerrillas would use roughly the same infantry rifles of Soviet origin: the Mosin–Nagant bolt-action rifle, the SKS carbine, and most importantly the AK-47 series of 7.62×39mm automatic rifle, or Kalashnikov. Rebel forces also made extensive use of machine guns for ambush and positional defense.\n\nRapid-fire arms in use with the insurgents included the 7.62×54mmR DP-28, the 7.62×39mm RPD machine gun (the most widely used of all), the 8×57mm Mauser MG 34 general-purpose machine gun, together with the 12.7×108mm DShK and the 7.62×54mm SG-43 Goryunov heavy machine guns, 7.62×25mm PPSh-41 and PPS-43, 9×19mm Sa vz. 23, Sterling, MP 40, MAT-49 submachine gun operation. Support weapons included mortars, recoilless rifles, and in particular, Soviet-made rocket launchers, the RPG-2 and RPG-7. Anti-aircraft (AA) weapons were also employed, especially by the PAIGC and the FRELIMO. The 14.5×114mm ZPU AA cannon was the most widely used, but by far the most effective was the Strela 2 missile, first introduced to guerrilla forces in Guinea in 1973 and in Mozambique the following year by Soviet technicians.\n\nThe guerrillas' AK-47 rifles and such variants were highly thought of by many Portuguese soldiers, as they were more mobile than the m/961 (G3), while permitting the user to deliver a heavy volume of automatic fire at the closer ranges typically encountered in bush warfare. The AK-47's ammunition load was also lighter. The average Angolan or Mozambican rebel could easily transport 150 7.62×39mm cartridges (five 30-round magazines) on his person during bush operations, compared to 100 7.62×51mm rounds (five 20-round magazines) typically carried by a Portuguese infantryman on patrol. Though a common misconception holds that Portuguese soldiers used captured AK-47 type weapons, this was only true of a few elite units for special missions. Like U.S. forces in Vietnam, ammunition resupply difficulties and the obvious danger of being mistaken for a guerrilla when firing an enemy weapon generally precluded their use.\n\nMines and other booby traps were one of the principal weapons used by the insurgents against Portuguese mechanized forces to great effect, who typically patrolled the mostly unpaved roads of their territories using motor vehicles and armored scout cars. To counter the mine threat, Portuguese engineers commenced the herculean task of tarring the rural road network. Mine detection was accomplished not only by electronic mine detectors, but also by employing trained soldiers (\"picadors\") walking abreast with long probes to detect nonmetallic road mines.\n\nGuerrillas in all the various revolutionary movements used a variety of mines, often combining anti-tank with anti-personnel mines to ambush Portuguese formations with devastating results. A common tactic was to plant large anti-vehicle mines in a roadway bordered by obvious cover, such as an irrigation ditch, then seed the ditch with anti-personnel mines. Detonation of the vehicle mine would cause Portuguese troops to deploy and seek cover in the ditch, where the anti-personnel mines would cause further casualties.\n\nIf the insurgents planned to confront the Portuguese openly, one or two heavy machine guns would be sited to sweep the ditch and other likely areas of cover. Other mines used included the PMN (Black Widow), TM-46, and POMZ. Even amphibious mines were used such as the PDM, along with numerous home-made antipersonnel wood box mines and other nonmetallic explosive devices. The impact of mining operations, in addition to causing casualties, undermined the mobility of Portuguese forces, while diverting troops and equipment from security and offensive operations to convoy protection and mine clearance missions.\n\nIn general, the PAIGC in Guinea was the best armed, trained and led of all the guerrilla movements. By 1970, it even had candidates training in the Soviet Union, learning to fly Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-15 jets and to operate Soviet-supplied amphibious assault crafts and APCs.\n\nThe government presented as a general consensus that the colonies were a part of the national unity, closer to overseas provinces than to true colonies. The communists were the first party to oppose the official view, since they saw the Portuguese presence in the colonies as an act against the colonies' right to self determination. During its 5th Congress, in 1957, the illegal Portuguese Communist Party (\"Partido Comunista Português\" – PCP) was the first political organization to demand the immediate and total independence of the colonies.\n\nHowever, being the only truly organized opposition movement, the PCP had to play two roles. One role was that of a communist party with an anti-colonialist position; the other role was to be a cohesive force drawing together a broad spectrum of opposing parties. Therefore, it had to accede to views that didn't reflect its true anticolonial position.\n\nSeveral opposition figures outside the PCP also had anticolonial opinions, such as the candidates to the fraudulent presidential elections, like Norton de Matos (in 1949), Quintão Meireles (in 1951) and Humberto Delgado (in 1958). The communist candidates had, obviously, the same positions. Among them were Rui Luís Gomes and Arlindo Vicente, the first would not be allowed to participate in the election and the second would support Delgado in 1958.\n\nAfter the electoral fraud of 1958, Humberto Delgado formed the Independent National Movement (\"Movimento Nacional Independente\" – MNI) that, in October 1960, agreed that there was a need to prepare the people in the colonies, before giving them the right of self-determination. Despite this, no detailed policies for achieving this goal were set out.\n\nIn 1961, the nº8 of the \"Military Tribune\" had as its title \"\"Let's end the war of Angola\"\". The authors were linked to the Patriotic Action Councils (\"Juntas de Acção Patriótica\" – JAP), supporters of Humberto Delgado, and responsible for the attack on the barracks of Beja. The Portuguese National Liberation Front (\"Frente Portuguesa de Libertação Nacional\" – FPLN), founded in December 1962, attacked the conciliatory positions. The official feeling of the Portuguese state, despite all this, was the same: Portugal had inalienable and legitimate rights over the colonies and this was what was transmitted through the media and through the state propaganda.\n\nIn April 1964, the Directory of Democratic-Social Action (\"Acção Democrato-Social\" – ADS) presented a political solution rather than a military one. In agreement with this initiative in 1966, Mário Soares suggested there should be a referendum on the overseas policy Portugal should follow, and that the referendum should be preceded by a national discussion to take place in the six months prior to the referendum.\n\nThe end of Salazar's rule in 1968, due to illness, did not prompt any change in the political panorama. The radicalization of the opposition movements started with the younger people who also felt victimized by the continuation of the war.\n\nThe universities played a key role in the spread of this position. Several magazines and newspapers were created, such as \"Cadernos Circunstância\", \"Cadernos Necessários\", \"Tempo e Modo\", and \"Polémica\" that supported this view. The students that participated in this underground opposition faced serious consequences if caught by the PIDE – from immediate arrest to automatic conscription into a combat branch (infantry, marines, etc.) situated in the \"hot\" warzone (Guinea, Tete Province in Mozambique or eastern Angola). It was in this environment that the (\"Acção Revolucionária Armada\" – ARA), the armed branch of the Portuguese Communist Party created in the late 1960s, and the (\"Brigadas Revolucionárias\" – BR), a left-wing organization, became an important force of resistance against the war, carrying out multiple acts of sabotage and bombing against military targets.\n\nThe ARA began its military actions in October 1970, keeping them up until August 1972. The major actions were the attack on the Tancos air base that destroyed several helicopters on March 8, 1971, and the attack on the NATO headquarters at Oeiras in October of the same year. The BR, on its side, began armed actions on 7 November 1971, with the sabotage of the NATO base at Pinhal de Armeiro, the last action being carried out 9 April 1974, against the Niassa ship which was preparing to leave Lisboa with troops to be deployed in Portuguese Guinea. The BR acted even in the colonies, placing a bomb in the Military Command of Bissau on 22 February 1974.\n\nBy the early 1970s, the Portuguese Colonial War raged on, consuming fully 40 percent of Portugal's annual budget. The Portuguese military was overstretched and there was no political solution or end in sight. While the human losses were relatively small, the war as whole had already entered its second decade. The Portuguese ruling regime of Estado Novo faced criticism from the international community and was becoming increasingly isolated. It had a profound impact on Portugal – thousands of young men avoided conscription by emigrating illegally, mainly to France and the US.\n\nThe war in the Portuguese overseas territories of Africa was increasingly unpopular in Portugal itself as the people got weary of war and balked at its ever-rising expense. Many ethnic Portuguese of the African overseas territories were also increasingly willing to accept independence if their economic status could be preserved. In addition, younger Portuguese military academy graduates resented a program introduced by Marcello Caetano whereby militia officers who completed a brief training program and had served in the overseas territories' defensive campaigns, could be commissioned at the same rank as military academy graduates.\n\nCaetano's government had begun the program (which included several other reforms) in order to increase the number of officials employed against the African insurgencies, and at the same time cut down military costs to alleviate an already overburdened government budget. Thus, the group of revolutionary military insurgents started as a military professional class protest of Portuguese Armed Forces captains against a decree law: the \"Dec. Lei nº 353/73\" of 1973, organizing themselves in a loosely allied group known as the Movement of the Armed Forces (MFA).\n\nFaced with government inflexibility over proposed reforms, some Portuguese junior military officers, many from underprivileged backgrounds and increasingly attracted to the Marxist philosophy of their African insurgent opponents, began to move the MFA to the political left. On April 25, 1974, Portuguese military officers of the MFA staged a bloodless military coup that toppled António de Oliveira Salazar's successor Marcelo Caetano, and successfully overthrew the Estado Novo regime.\n\nThe revolt later became known as the Carnation Revolution. General Spínola was invited to assume the office of President, but resigned a few months later after it became clear that his desire to set up a system of federalized home rule for the African territories was not shared by the rest of the MFA, who wanted an immediate end to the war (achievable only by granting independence to the provinces of Portuguese Africa). The 25 April coup led to a series of temporary governments, marked by a nationalization of many important areas of the economy.\n\nAfter the coup on April 25, 1974, while the power struggle for control of Portugal's government was occurring in Lisbon, many Portuguese Army units serving in Africa simply ceased field operations, in some cases ignoring orders to continue fighting and withdrawing into barracks, in others negotiating local ceasefire agreements with insurgents.\n\nOn 26 August 1974, after a series of diplomatic meetings, Portugal and the PAIGC signed an accord in Algiers, Algeria in which Portugal agreed to remove all troops by the end of October and to recognize the Republic of Guinea-Bissau government controlled by the PAIGC.\n\nIn June 1975, after a period of eight months under which Mozambique had been administered by a provisional government, representatives of the Portuguese government and FRELIMO signed an agreement to grant independence to Mozambique, with the president of FRELIMO to assume the presidency of the newly independent nation. This was followed the next month by the announcement of the independence of Cape Verde, and the establishment of a new nation, the Republic of Cape Verde.\n\nIn Angola, the Alvor Agreement was signed on January 15, 1975, granting Angola independence from Portugal on 11 November 1975. The Alvor Agreement formally ended the war for independence. The agreement, while signed by the MPLA, the FNLA, UNITA, and the Portuguese government, was never signed by the Front for the Liberation of the Enclave of Cabinda or the Eastern Revolt as the other parties had excluded them from the peace negotiations. The coalition government established by the Alvor Agreement soon fell apart as the various nationalist parties each attempted to seize power. Unable to broker a new compromise, in November 1975 Portugal's last African High Commissioner Rosa Coutinho hauled down his nation's flag and departed Angola.\n\nFor a brief time after the 25 April Coup (May 1974 – November 1975), Portugal was on the brink of civil war between left-wing hardliners (Vasco Gonçalves, Otelo Saraiva de Carvalho and others) and the moderate forces (Francisco da Costa Gomes, António Ramalho Eanes and others). Moderate elements of the new military government eventually won, preventing Portugal from becoming a communist state.\n\nBy 1975, Portugal had converted to a democratic government. The effects of having to integrate hundreds of thousands of returning Portuguese from the former African provinces (collectively known as \"retornados\"), and political and economic turmoil resulting from the military coup and successive governments would cripple the Portuguese economy for decades to come.\n\nPortugal had been the first European power to establish a colony in Africa when it captured Ceuta in 1415 and now it was one of the last to leave. The departure of the Portuguese from Angola and Mozambique increased the isolation of Rhodesia, where white minority rule ended in 1980 when the territory gained international recognition as the Republic of Zimbabwe with Robert Mugabe as the head of government. The former Portuguese territories in Africa became sovereign states with Agostinho Neto (followed in 1979 by José Eduardo dos Santos) in Angola, Samora Machel (followed in 1986 by Joaquim Chissano) in Mozambique and Luís Cabral (followed in 1980 by Nino Vieira) in Guinea-Bissau, as heads of state.\n\nIn contrast to some other European colonial possessions, many of the Portuguese living in Portuguese Africa had strong ties to their adopted land, as their ancestors had lived in Africa for generations. For these individuals, the prospect of Portugal's imminent departure from its African territories was nearly impossible to comprehend. Nevertheless, most accepted the inevitable, and while an abortive right-wing settler revolt broke out in Mozambique, it quickly died out as Portuguese coup leaders made it clear that the decision to grant independence was irrevocable.\n\nFear of reprisals and impending changes in political and economic status by the Marxist governments of the new African states resulted in the peaceful exodus of over one million Portuguese citizens of European, African and mixed ethnicity from the newly independent African territories to Portugal, Brazil, South Africa, and other countries.\n\nThe new governments of Angola and Mozambique, faced a severe set of challenges as devastating civil wars broke out in both countries. Lasting several decades, these ongoing conflicts would eventually claim over two million lives and an even greater number of refugees, while destroying much of the infrastructure in both nations. Resentments over economic difficulties caused by failed government policies, the general disenfranchisement of political opponents, and widespread corruption at the highest levels of government eroded the initial optimism present at independence. These problems were exacerbated by a tendency to consolidate power by directing public anger against ethnic Portuguese, mixed-race Africans, and those who had supported the former colonial regime.\n\nMany of the local black soldiers that served in the Portuguese Army and who had fought against the insurgents were demobilized by Portuguese authorities and left behind in Africa. The most infamous reprisal occurred in Guinea-Bissau. Demobilized by the Portuguese authorities and abandoned to their fate, a total of 7,447 black African soldiers who had served in Portuguese native commando forces and militia were summarily executed by the PAIGC after Portuguese forces ceased hostilities. In a statement in the party newspaper \" Nô Pintcha\" (\"In the Vanguard\"), a spokesman for the PAIGC revealed that many of the ex-Portuguese indigenous African soldiers that were executed after cessation of hostilities were buried in unmarked collective graves in the woods of Cumerá, Portogole, and Mansabá.\n\nBecause the political regimes involved in wars or counterinsurgency tend to minimize unfavorable news stories about their military actions, many Portuguese remained unaware of the atrocities committed by the colonial regimes and the army. In 2007, a Radiotelevisao Portuguesa (RTP) documentary by Joaquim Furtado, made public both these government-supported atrocities and the organized massacres and terror campaign policies of some pro-independence guerrilla movements or their supporters; it was watched by over a million people, a tenth of the population at the time.\n\nWith the fall of the Estado Novo regime, most Portuguese citizens, tired of the long war and their isolation from the world community under the Caetano regime, supported the decision to recognize the independence of Portuguese Africa immediately, while accepting the inevitable loss of their former overseas territories. However, controversies over the MFA coup of 25 April 1974 and the decisions made by coup leaders remain to this day.\n\nIn Portugal, government budgets increased significantly during the war years. The country's expenditure on the armed forces ballooned since the beginning of the war in 1961. The expenses were divided into ordinary and extraordinary ones; the latter were the main factor in the huge increase in the military budget. The succession of Marcelo Caetano, after Salazar's incapacitation, resulted in steady increases in military spending on the African wars through 1972.\n\nOn November 13, 1972, a sovereign wealth fund was enacted through the Decree Law \"Decreto-Lei n.º 448/ /72\" and the Ministry of Defense ordinance \"Portaria 696/72\", in order to finance the counterinsurgency effort in the Portuguese overseas territories. While the counterinsurgency war was won in Angola, it was less than satisfactorily contained in Mozambique and dangerously stalemated in Portuguese Guinea from the Portuguese point of view, so the Portuguese Government decided to create sustainability policies in order to allow continuous sources of financing for the war effort in the long run. In addition, new Decree Laws (Decree Law: \"Decretos-Leis n.os 353, de 13 de Julho de 1973, e 409, de 20 de Agosto\") were enforced in order to cut down military expenses and increase the number of officers by incorporating militia and military academy officers in the Army branches as equals.\n\nIn mainland Portugal, the growth rate of the economy during the war years ranged from 6–11%, and in post war years 2–3%. This is substantially higher than the vast majority of other European nations. Other indicators like GDP as percentage of Western Europe would indicate that Portugal was rapidly catching up to its European neighbors. In 1960, at the initiation of Salazar's more outward-looking economic policy influenced by a new generation of technocrats, Portugal's per capita GDP was only 38 percent of the EC-12 average; by the end of the Salazar period, in 1968, it had risen to 48 percent.\n\nIn 1973, on the eve of the revolution, Portugal's per capita GDP had reached 56 percent of the EC-12 average. In 1975, the year of maximum revolutionary turmoil, Portugal's per capita GDP declined to 52 percent of the EC-12 average. Convergence of real GDP growth toward the EC average occurred as a result of Portugal's economic resurgence since 1985. In 1991 Portugal's GDP per capita climbed to 55 percent of the EC average, exceeding by a fraction the level attained just during the worst revolutionary period.\n\nFor many decades to come after independence, the economies of the three former Portuguese African territories involved in the war continued to remain problematic due to continuing internecine political conflicts and power struggles as well as inadequate agricultural production caused by disruptive government policies resulting in high birth mortality rates, widespread malnutrition, and disease. By the 21st century, the Human Development Index of Angola, Mozambique and Guinea-Bissau, were among the lowest in the World, while corruption and social inequality soared.\n\nAfter 1974, the deterioration in central planning effectiveness, economic development and growth, security, education and health system efficiency, was rampant. None of the newly independent ex-Portuguese African states made any significant economic progress in the following decades, and political progress in terms of democratic processes and protection of individual human rights was either minimal or nonexistent. With few exceptions, the new regimes ranked at the bottom of human development and GDP per capita world tables. By 2002, however, the end of the Angolan Civil War, combined with exploitation of the country's highly valuable natural resources, resulted in that country becoming economically successful for the first time in decades.\n\n\n\n\nPortuguese military:\n\nContemporaneous wars:\n\nPost-independence wars:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314245", "title": "Fag bomb", "text": "Fag bomb\n\nThe \"fag bomb\" was a U.S. military fighter-mounted bomb (a GBU-31 JDAM), photographed aboard the aircraft carrier USS \"Enterprise\" in October 2001 during the United States' invasion of Afghanistan while in the Arabian Sea.\n\nOn October 11, while being readied to an F-18 Hornet for deployment in an air mission above Afghanistan, the bomb was defaced with a graffito (a \"message\" to the bomb's targets) by an unidentified U.S. Navy sailor with the message \"HIGH JACK THIS FAGS.\" The term \"HIGH JACK\" referred to the September 11 attacks one month prior, which utilized hijacked passenger airlines. The September 11 attacks led to the military action against Afghanistan.\n\nThe photograph sparked outrage from the LGBT community, and the Associated Press pulled it from wires the following day after pressure from the Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation (GLAAD) and the Human Rights Campaign.\n\nBoth the Associated Press and the United States Navy have apologized for the incident. AP spokesman Jack Stokes described publishing the photograph as a \"journalistic error,\" saying that the \"fag bomb\" picture \"never should have gotten through, and nobody should have seen it.\" \"XY\" noted that in theory all naval war photos are vetted by command so the image should not have been cleared. Gay servicemen's organization Servicemembers Legal Defense Network, now merged into the OutServe-SLDN organization questioned how it ever could have been cleared. The Navy has said that at the time there are no regulations on what could be written on bombs. U.S. Navy Rear admiral Stephen Pietropaoli promised that the crew had been admonished over their \"spontaneous acts of penmanship\" calling the slur \"not up to our standards.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314254", "title": "Perserschutt", "text": "Perserschutt\n\nThe Perserschutt, a German term meaning \"Persian debris\", or \"Persian rubble\", refers to the bulk of architectural and votive sculptures that were damaged by the invading Persian army of Xerxes I on the Acropolis of Athens in 480 BC, in the Destruction of Athens during the Second Persian invasion of Greece.\n\nThe Athenians had fled the city, returning only upon the departure of the Persians. The city had been sacked and burned and most of the temples had been looted, vandalized, or razed. The desecrated items were buried ceremoniously by the Athenians. Later, the citizens of Athens cleared the top of their acropolis, rebuilt their temples, and created new works of sculpture to be dedicated for the new temples.\n\nThe remains were preserved by the respectful action and sculptures from the burial were first excavated in 1863–66 by the French archaeologist Charles Ernest Beulé. The remainder was discovered in 1885–1890 by archaeologist Panagiotis Kavvadias and architects Wilhelm Dörpfeld and Georg Kawerau. They include such celebrated sculptures as the Kritios Boy, the Calf Bearer, and the Angelitos Athena (photograph, right).\n\nDetails of the excavations were published in 1906 (see references: Kavvadias, P., Kawerau, G.).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314259", "title": "Alienating Our Audience", "text": "Alienating Our Audience\n\nAlienating Our Audience is a live album by the band Mindless Self Indulgence, released on October 8, 2002 (see 2002 in music). The album contains songs from the \"Tight\" era, and six previously unreleased tracks. The recordings took place throughout the band's tour with System of a Down (February 14-March 1), but mostly pulled material from two shows: May 13 at CBGB's in New York City, NY and May 15 at The Whiskey A-Go-Go in Los Angeles, CA.\n\nThe album also contains two of The Left Rights' videos, \"Darth Vader (Who Gives a Sith)/Weirdo\" and \"Place Disclaimer Here\".\n\nThe live version of Molly was later put on their 2003 EP \"Despierta Los Niños\". A studio version of \"Two Hookers\" appeared on \"You'll Rebel to Anything\" under the title \"2 Hookers & an Eightball\". A studio version of \"Revenge\" was released on their 2008 album, \"If\". A studio version of \"Last Gay Song\" was released as a YouTube exclusive. An alternate studio mix was included as a bonus track on their new album, \"How I Learned to Stop Giving a Shit and Love Mindless Self Indulgence\". A studio version of \"Rip Off\" was included as track 11, in some digital versions of the album.\n\nJimmy Urine explained that the album was recorded on 2 DAT tapes. Due to this, some of the live drums (not prerecorded drums) were lost in the recording, as well as bass. MSI re-recorded guitar tracks and some vocals (when Jimmy Urine lost his breath, or any other parts where he stopped singing).\n\n"}
{"id": "2314279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314279", "title": "Nicolette (musician)", "text": "Nicolette (musician)\n\nNicolette (full name Nicolette Love Suwoton, born 1964) is a Scottish singer-songwriter of Nigerian parentage, residing in London for most of her life, and has also lived in Nigeria, Switzerland, France, and Belgium. Her music, although falling broadly into the field of electronica, is characterised by many influences, including, jazz, classical, blues, folk, and African. She has been described as \"Billie Holiday on acid\".\n\nShe has released three solo albums, as well as a DJ mix album for the DJ-Kicks series, and featured on \"Three\" and \"Sly\", two songs on Massive Attack's 1994 \"Protection\" album. She has worked with many other collaborators in the electronic music field, including Plaid, Alec Empire, and 4hero. She signed to the Talkin' Loud label in 1996. In 1999 she set up her own record label, Early Records, upon leaving Talkin’ Loud to release quirky pop anthems. According to Nicolette, Early Records' music policy is: \"innovative pop music.\" Nicolette's 2005 album, \"Life Loves Us\", was released through the label. One single and a 6-track EP were released from the album in the following year.\n\nIn 2007, Nicolette's \"No Government\" was re-released and remixed by DJ Tocadisco and Makossa & Megablast. In 2008, Nicolette contributed vocals to John Tejada's album \"Where\", she sings and co-wrote the track \"Desire\". She released a single called \"Love\" with DJ Cam in March 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314288", "title": "Jukeboxer in the Food Chain", "text": "Jukeboxer in the Food Chain\n\nJukeboxer In The Food Chain is an album released in 2004 by Jukeboxer. The songs were constructed digitally using music editing programs. It was recorded at Noah Wall's home in Brooklyn.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314291", "title": "Castle Tioram", "text": "Castle Tioram\n\nCastle Tioram () (, meaning \"dry castle\") is a ruined castle that sits on the tidal island Eilean Tioram in Loch Moidart, Lochaber, Highland, Scotland. It is located west of Acharacle, approximately from Fort William. Though hidden from the sea, the castle controls access to Loch Shiel. It is also known to the locals as \"Dorlin Castle\". The castle is a scheduled monument.\n\nCastle Tioram may date to the thirteenth- or fourteenth century. It appears to have originally been a principal stronghold of Clann Ruaidhrí. Eilean Tioram, the island the fortress sits upon, is first recorded in a charter of Cairistíona Nic Ruaidhrí, daughter of Ailéan mac Ruaidhrí. According to early modern tradition, preserved by the seventeenth-century \"Sleat History\", the castle was erected by Ailéan's granddaughter, Áine Nic Ruaidhrí. The castle certainly served as the seat of the latter's Clann Raghnaill descendants for centuries.\n\nAs such, Castle Tioram is the traditional seat of the Clanranald (Clann Raghnaill) branch of Clan Donald. The castle was seized by Government forces in around 1692 when the clan chief Allan Macdonald of Clanranald joined the Jacobite Court in France, despite having sworn allegiance to the British Crown. A small garrison was stationed in the castle until the Jacobite rising of 1715 when Allan recaptured and torched it, purportedly to keep it out of the hands of Hanoverian forces. It has been unoccupied since that time, although there are some accounts suggesting it was partially inhabited thereafter including for the storage of firearms from the De Tuillay in the 1745 Jacobite Uprising and Lady Grange's account of her kidnapping.\n\nThe castle is now in extremely poor condition and in 1998 was closed to the public at the insistence of the present owner despite the objections of the Highland Council's archaeologist; the walls were in surprisingly good condition, requiring only minor repairs. However, a major structural collapse occurred at the north west curtain wall in 2000. \n\nProposals to restore the castle by the new owners, Anta Estates, were announced in 1997 and received planning consent from Highland Council. This included the creation of a clan centre/museum, domestic apartments, and some public access. However, Historic Scotland refused Scheduled Monument Consent; a decision upheld after a local public inquiry.\n\nThe Royal Commission on the Ancient and Historical Monuments of Scotland, now part of Historic Environment Scotland, holds a substantial archive of research information, drawings, and photographs lodged by the current owners.\n\nThe castle can be reached on foot across the tidal causeway, but there is no access to the interior because of the risk of falling masonry. Eilean Tioram is one of 43 tidal islands that can be walked to from the mainland of Great Britain and one of 17 that can be walked to from the Scottish mainland.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314298", "title": "Halloween (wrestler)", "text": "Halloween (wrestler)\n\nManuel Ortiz Partida (born May 22, 1971) is a professional wrestler who is currently wrestling the independent circuit in Mexico, particularly in the Tijuana area. He is better known by his stage name Halloween but is also known in the United States as Ciclope, a character he portrayed in World Championship Wrestling.\n\nManuel Ortiz Partida, debut in the pros in 1990, spent his time in the Independent Circuit. He wrestled as \"Halloween\" for most of his career. In 1996, Ortiz joined WCW where he took the name \"Ciclope\". His biggest moment in wrestling was part of the feud between Chris Jericho and Dean Malenko. Malenko, who had been inactive for a few months prior, dressed up as Ciclope to win a Cruiserweight battle royale to determine the number one contendership to Chris Jericho's Cruiserweight Title. Jericho had been refusing to grant Malenko contendership, making the disguise necessary.\n\nAfter his time there was over, he lost the Ciclope mask to Antifaz del Norte early in 1999. He quickly reverted to his Halloween character but lost his mask again on December 24, 1999 in a match against Super Parka. He has wrestled in many United States promotions over the years including for USA Pro Wrestling, Florida Championship Wrestling (FCW) and Luchamania. In 2002 he along with \"La Familia de Tijuana\" (a group consisting of himself, Damián 666, Nicho el Millonario, Rey Misterio, Sr. and their valet Lady Victoria. although Rey did not come for the tour) came to Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre in Mexico City. The trio won the National Trios title but Nicho had a falling out with management and La Familia soon left entirely. They continued to work for independent promoters until CMLL called them back in 2005 to wrestle against Negro Casas, Heavy Metal and Felino on a show celebrating Negro's 25 years of wrestling. Perro Aguayo, Jr. recruited him and Damián for his Los Perros del Mal group. However, Halloween suffered a leg injury and his role was minimalized. After Universo 2000 used the illegal \"martinete\" on Damián 666, Halloween challenged Univeso to a hair vs. hair match on the December 2 show. After losing the match and his hair, Halloween underwent knee surgery that put him out of action for several months after which he was released from CMLL. In 2009 Halloween joined Aguayo's \"Perros del Mal Producciones\", where he reunited with Damián 666. In June 2010, Halloween became a major part of a storyline, where \"Los Perros del Mal\" invaded AAA. On June 18, 2011, at Triplemanía XIX, Halloween, Damián 666 and X-Fly defeated \"Los Psycho Circus\" in a tournament final to become the first ever AAA World Trios Champions. On July 31 at \"Verano de Escándalo\", \"Los Perros del Mal\" faced \"Los Psycho Circus\" in a steel cage match, where the last person left in the cage would lose either his hair or mask. The match ended with Psycho Clown escaping the cage, leaving X-Fly inside and forcing him to have his hair shaved off. On October 9 at Héroes Inmortales, \"Los Perros del Mal\" and \"Los Psycho Circus\" ended their year long rivalry, when Halloween, Damián 666 and Nicho el Millonario were defeated in a Masks vs. Hairs steel cage match and were all shaved bald. After a five-month break from the rivalry, \"Los Perros del Mal\" lost the AAA World Trios Championship to \"Los Psycho Circus\" on March 11, 2012. The following day, Halloween, Damián 666 and X-Fly announced that they had quit \"Los Perros del Mal\".\n\nOn March 13, 2012, Halloween, Bestia 666, Damián 666, Super Nova and X-Fly announced that they were forming \"La Familia de Tijuana\", a group of independent wrestlers, much like \"Los Perros del Mal\", with the exception that they were not looking to form their own promotion. On March 29, International Wrestling Revolution Group (IWRG) was officially announced as \"La Familia de Tijuana\"'s new home promotion. Afterwards, Halloween was the only member of \"La Familia de Tijuana\", who kept appearing on AAA events. After initially teasing dissension with El Hijo del Perro Aguayo, Halloween reunited with \"Los Perros del Mal\" on April 1. On April 19, Halloween officially severed his ties with the rest of \"La Familia de Tijuana\" and returned to \"Los Perros del Mal\". On August 5 at \"Triplemanía XX\", Halloween reunited with former partner Extreme Tiger for one night to take part in a \"Parejas Suicidas\" steel cage match, featuring three other former tag teams. However, both Halloween and Tiger managed to escape the cage and avoid having to face each other in a Hair vs. Mask match. In late 2012, Halloween started a romance storyline with Mari Apache, which led to the two winning the AAA World Mixed Tag Team Championship on October 7. Later, in the main event of the same evening, Halloween lost his hair to Dark Cuervo in an eight man tag team \"Domo de la Muerte\". Halloween and Apache lost the AAA World Mixed Tag Team Championship to Drago and Faby Apache on July 19, 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314313", "title": "Self Against City", "text": "Self Against City\n\nSelf Against City was a pop rock band from Sacramento, California best known for their single \"The Process.\" They formed in 2004 and were the first band to sign to Rushmore Records. The five-piece band made an EP (2005's \"Take It How You Want It\"), as well as a full-length album \"Telling Secrets to Strangers\" (2007).\n\nSelf Against City formed in April 2004 in Sacramento, California, when vocalist Jonathan Michael, guitarists Jack Matranga and Jeff LaTour, bassist Patrick O'Connor and drummer Chris Trombley decided to record songs together.\n\nThe quintet pooled their cash and recorded three songs at Fat Cat Studios in Sacramento, California. The songs were uploaded to their PureVolume profile, a link to which was forwarded to Drive-Thru Records owner Richard Reines by a fan of the band. He soon approached the band and asked for more material. Upon hearing the songs, Reines invited the band to play a showcase in Los Angeles for him and Drive-Thru co-owner Stefanie Reines. That same night over dinner, the two offered the band a record deal. On November 6, 2004, Self Against City officially became the first band to sign to Rushmore Records, only a few months after their formation.\n\nTheir first act as a signed band was to record a cover of Darlene Love's \"Alone on Christmas\" for the Drive-Thru Christmas compilation \"Happy Holidays from Drive-Thru Records\" and a sixth song for their debut EP, advance copies of which had been given out at a show at the Boardwalk in Orangevale, California on October 28, 2004. \"Take It How You Want It\" finally hit music store shelves on April 5, 2005, while the band embarked on their first nationwide co-headlining tour with Houston Calls the same month. They hit a total of 32 cities across 18 states. Upon returning home in July, LaTour left the band. Though initially the band made efforts to replace LaTour – Blake Abbey of the Daytona Beach, Florida band Abagnale sporadically filled in as a rhythm guitarist – they soon decided to continue on as a four-piece and began writing songs for their first full-length record. Two days before the band left for recording in March 2006, LaTour decided to rejoin.\n\nSelf Against City began recording their full-length album \"Telling Secrets to Strangers\" in April 2006 with producers Steve Haigler and Mike Watts in Long Island, New York. According to Jack Matranga, the album was written as an upbeat pop-rock album. After two weeks of tracking and one week of mixing the album was completed. In June 2006, a month after returning home from recording, O'Connor and Trombley left the band. Drummer Justin Barnes (formerly of Simplistic) officially joined the band in August 2006, two days before the band left for tour with Houston Calls and Quietdrive, while Hunter MacDonald (whom the band met while on tour with JamisonParker temporarily filled in on bass. Towards the end of the year, in search of a new permanent bassist, the group once again recruited fellow vocalist/bassist Blake Abbey in December 2006.\n\nIn January 2007 Self Against City hit the road with Boys Like Girls and We The Kings on a nationwide tour across America. Later that year the \"SAC Pack\" went out on the road with Valencia and Forever the Sickest Kids.\n\n\n\nFrom \"Take It How You Want It\":\n\nFrom \"Telling Secrets to Strangers\":\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314317", "title": "Viscount of Kenmure", "text": "Viscount of Kenmure\n\nViscount of Kenmure was a title in the Peerage of Scotland. It was created by Charles I in 1633 for the prominent Presbyterian Sir John Gordon, 2nd Baronet. He was made Lord Lochinvar at the same time, also in the Peerage of Scotland. The sixth viscount was granted a marquessate in the Jacobite Peerage by the Old Pretender in 1707, and was involved in the Jacobite rising of 1715. He was found guilty of treason and beheaded with his titles forfeited. However, they were restored by Act of Parliament in 1824 in favour of John Gordon, who became the tenth viscount. He had earlier represented Kirkcudbright in Parliament. The titles became dormant on the death of the eleventh Viscount in 1847. There are believed to have been descendants of the first viscount living, but the titles have remained dormant. The Baronetcy, of Lochinvar in the Stewartry of Kirkcudbright, was created in the Baronetage of Nova Scotia on 1 May 1626 for Robert Gordon. The viscountcy is named for the family seat, Kenmure Castle near New Galloway.\n\n\n\nDescent of titles during attainder:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314331", "title": "Blast gate", "text": "Blast gate\n\nBlast gates are gate valves used to focus a dust collection system's vacuum pressure for maximum dust (or other material) extraction at the desired location. Blast gates are positioned near individual pieces of machinery and operate by being, by default, closed — blocking air flow. When one blast gate is opened, all available suction is focused at that location, maximizing the amount of material collected.\n\nNote that in larger dust collection system installations with more available power, multiple blast gates may be opened at the same time without detriment to collection abilities at individual locations. In fact, some systems are so powerful that at least one blast gate \"must\" be open at all times, or the system can collapse itself.\n"}
{"id": "2314340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314340", "title": "Zhang Ziping", "text": "Zhang Ziping\n\nZhang Ziping () (May 24, 1893–December 2, 1959) was a Chinese writer born in Meixian, Meizhou, Guangdong. He was a very popular author in the 1930s. \n\nZhang received a classical education and, after studying in Japan from 1912, received a degree in geology from Tokyo Imperial University in 1922. On his return to China, he engaged in various business ventures, wrote, taught geology and literature. However, he eventually decided on a literary career, and with Yu Dafu, Guo Moruo and Tian Han he co-founded the \"Creation Society\" which promoted vernacular and modern literature. He worked as an editor of their literary magazine and it was during this time that he published the semi-autobiographical \"Fossils in Alluvial Deposits\" (冲积期化石, 1922), his first novel and arguably the first long-form fiction work of the May 4 Period.\n\nZhang went on to pursue a successful career as a novelist, writing stories of torrid love triangles that were popular with audiences but panned by critics. In an essay later collected in the volume \"Two Minds\", Lu Xun wrote that Zhang's complete works could be distilled to a single symbol: a triangle.\n\nAfter leaving the Creation Society in the 1928, he started up his own publisher, Liqun Books, through which he issued books and a literary journal. His output of fiction slackened after the early 1930s, and by the middle of the decade he was mainly writing science books and doing translations from the Japanese. \"A Modern Scarlet Letter\" (新红A字), a romance set in wartime Shanghai and published in 1945, was his final novel.\n\nDuring the Second Sino-Japanese War he worked for the collaborationist Wang Jingwei Government in the Department of Agriculture and Mining, and later edited a journal for the Sino-Japanese Culture Association. After the defeat of the Empire of Japan he was arrested and tried by the Kuomintang government for treason in 1947. In early 1948 he was sentenced to fifteen months in prison, and was released in early 1949.\n\nDuring the early years of the People's Republic, Zhang taught geology in Shanghai and continued his translation and editing work. In June 1955 he was arrested for being a counter-revolutionary, and in September 1958 was sentenced to 20 years in prison. In 1959 he was sent to a labor farm in Anhui, where he died on December 2.\n\n"}
{"id": "2314348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314348", "title": "Trotline", "text": "Trotline\n\nA trotline is a heavy fishing line with baited hooks attached at intervals by means of branch lines called snoods. A snood is a short length of line which is attached to the main line using a clip or swivel, with the hook at the other end. A trotline can be set so it covers the width of a channel, river, or stream with baited hooks and can be left unattended. There are many ways to set a trotline, with most methods involving weights to hold the cord below the surface of the water. They are used for catching crabs or fish (particularly catfish). Trotlines should be used with caution as they are illegal in many locations.\n\nTrotlines can be contrasted with droplines. Whereas a trotline has a series of hooks suspended horizontally in the water, a dropline has a series of hooks suspended vertically in the water.\n\nIn its use in the commercial crabbing industry (on the Chesapeake Bay for example), a trotline is used as a variation of a setline. Webster's dictionary defines a setline as being \"a long heavy fishing line to which several hooks are attached in series.\" A trotline is defined as \"a comparatively short setline used near shore or along streams.\" Some other common variations of a setline include limblines, throwlines, and juglines. The Virginia Department of Game & Fisheries defines a trotline as \"a line without a rod or reel attached that need not be held in the hand or closely attended.\" \n\nAs used for crabbing, a trotline is nothing more than a long line, resting on the bottom and anchored at both ends, to which a series of baits are attached at intervals of two to six feet. The baits are attached to the main line by simple slipknots or by shorter lines called dropper lines (known as trots or snoods.) Crab trotlines are usually baited with chicken necks, chicken livers, bull lips, eels or other inexpensive baits. Maryland blue crabs are harvested by waterman on small workboats using trotlines and crab pots. When caught by trotlines, the line is set and the workboat moves slowly end to end, bringing the line to the surface where the waterman catches the crab. Crabs on a trotline are not hooked, they are simply netted by the waterman at the surface, with the workboat moving slowly enough through the water that the crab does not discern movement as it eats the bait. The crab having been netted at the surface, the trotline moves back to or toward the bottom with the same bait intact to attract another crab.\n\nDepending on the length of the trotline (usually from at least 100 yards and up to a mile), a commercial waterman can catch anywhere from 4 bushels to 20 bushels of crabs daily.\n\nConstructing a trotline is quite simple. Basic supplies needed are fishing hooks, clamps, swivels, fishing line, and a durable cord or lightweight rope used for the main line. Before constructing the trotline, it is a good idea to measure the span of the body of water being fished in order to give the main line an appropriate length. Once this is done, drop lines are set along the main line by threading clamps on the line with swivels between them. Fishing line is attached to the swivels and hooks are tied to the end of the fishing line. \n\nTypically, the drop lines are set so that the hook of one line can not touch the hook of another line, to prevent the fish from getting tangled up in multiple lines, or getting tangled in lines with other fish already on the line. This might mean using lines just over 1 foot long and having the lines spaced in 3 foot intervals. It is also typical to avoid setting lines directly over stumps, branches or other obstacles that might cause the fish to get tangled. This is done so that any released fish has a better chance of being in good health.\n\nWeighting the line is a matter of personal preference. In areas along rivers and channels with strong currents, large weights may be added to keep the line from being pulled close to the surface as the water passes over the line. Most weights used on trotlines are homemade as typical weights used by anglers do not weigh enough to keep the line in place. These may be made out of cement, cinder blocks, or even small boat anchors. Other common weights used include old fashioned window weights, chisel plowshares and other similar sized scrap metal.\n\nIt is important to make sure that the area where the line is to be set is free of swimmers, boaters, or other people on or near the water as it is difficult to detect where a trotline is while it is underwater. It is easy to get tangled in the line and for hooks to become embedded in a person's skin, making the need for proper marking of the line crucial. A float on each side of a section of channel is a good indication that a trotline has been set. \n\nSetting the line consists of anchoring one end to one side of the channel, then taking the line out to the other side, baiting the hooks while this is being done. Trees or rocks make good anchor points for trotlines, but attention should be given that the line is not tied around rough or sharp edges that might cut through the line. \n\nOnce the line is set, the angler need only check the line periodically throughout the day to see if any fish have been caught. While checking the line, one can also replace bait, untangle drop lines, and retrieve any fish on the line. Care is needed when checking or setting the line to make sure that no one is accidentally hooked in any part of the process.\n\nBe sure to check local and state regulations as trotlines are not legal for use in all areas. Additionally, many localities that allow trotlines do not allow the use of live bait fish, particularly in areas with populations of largemouth bass or similar predator fish, as they can be severely injured or killed when attempting to escape. This is why cut bait is the most commonly used bait for attracting catfish.\nhttp://texasriverdata.com/blog/how-to-make-a-trotline/\n\n"}
{"id": "2314352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314352", "title": "William Wensley Smith", "text": "William Wensley Smith\n\nWilliam Wensley Smith (1887–1955) was a Canadian who founded W.W. Smith Insurance Ltd., one of the oldest insurance brokerages in Saskatchewan, Canada. It is located in the city of Swift Current, where it had its beginnings in 1913.\n\nWhen William Wensley Smith, an Englishman from Woolwich, immigrated to Canada in 1903 as a teenager, he didn't have much more than the shirt on his back and a few shillings in his pocket. However, he did have a letter of introduction from his pastor, vouching for him as a hard-working fellow of good character. Smith used that letter to get started in his new, adopted homeland, and eventually became very successful in life and business.\n\nWilliam Wensley Smith, or WW as he was better known, worked as a farm labourer in Manitoba before settling in Qu'Appelle, Saskatchewan, where he spent a few years as an employee in a general store. From there he made his way to Regina, where he worked in the life insurance business with the Confederation Life Association. Smith arrived in Swift Current in 1913, just a year before it was incorporated as a city. It was a unique time in Saskatchewan's history. Agriculture was very dominant, and the period was marked by rapid population growth, surpassing neighbouring Alberta during the 1920s.\n\nWhen he arrived in Swift Current, Smith formed a partnership with an acquaintance, Alexander Wallace, and the two became official agents of Confederation Life. Their company, known then as Wallace & Smith, later expanded into buying and selling real estate.\n\nIn 1914, Smith married Islay Fyffe, the daughter of a staff sergeant in the Royal Northwest Mounted Police, and they eventually had four children: Elizabeth, Jack, William Jr., and Jerry. They settled into one of Swift Current's finest homes. In 1920, Smith's association with Wallace ended, and Smith partnered with John Paisley to establish W.W. Smith Agency, a general insurance agency.\n\nThe company continued to offer life insurance, and also became an agent for a Winnipeg-based savings and loan association, later representing the Crescent Finance Corporation of Saskatoon, specializing in farming loans. \"Through the loan business, he gave lots of people their start around here\", said Gord Smith, Smith's grandson. According to Jerry Smith, W.W. Smith was an outstanding life insurance salesman and one of the top agents in the area: \"He sold a million dollars' worth of life insurance at one point during the 1920s, which was quite a feat at the time\". Smith remembers his father as very friendly and someone who genuinely liked people. He'd go out of his way to meet them. \"During the later years, when I joined the firm, he liked to stand outside the office and greet everybody...and he never really retired, he just slowed up a bit.\"\n\nIn the 1920s, he served four years as an alderman and later became Swift Current's mayor for two years. In 1929, the year of the stock market crash and the advent of the Depression, Smith moved up the political ladder. He was elected to the Legislative Assembly of Saskatchewan as a Conservative member. \"He was known as Machine-Gun Smith in the legislature for his rapid-fire speaking style\", Gord Smith said. Smith served in the government of James Thomas Milton Anderson during a time of severe economic hardship, social upheaval, and bitter political rivalries. Drought brought the province to its knees, striking a severe blow to agriculture.\n\nSmith was passionate about the outdoors and enjoyed hunting upland game birds. In 1931, he helped persuade the government to create and fund the Cypress Hills Interprovincial Park, located almost next door to Swift Current. Today, the park is a destination point for tourists and campers.\n\nCypress Hills, which straddles the Alberta-Saskatchewan border and is the highest point between Labrador and the Rocky Mountains, is an area similar to that of the Black Hills of South Dakota, where prairie suddenly meets pine. There are small lakes, streams, and majestic, soaring hills. It became Canada's only interprovincial park when space in Alberta was designated as parkland in the 1950s, and is adjacent to historic Fort Walsh, the North-West Mounted Police post established in 1878.\n\nWilliam Wensley Smith died in 1955 at the age of 67. A diabetic, the illness probably shortened his life. His wife Islay survived him for another 30 years. She died in 1985, at the age of 94.\n"}
{"id": "2314353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314353", "title": "Upton, Quebec", "text": "Upton, Quebec\n\nUpton is a municipality in the Regional County Municipality of Acton, in the province of Quebec, Canada. The population as of the Canada 2011 Census was 2,075.\n\nPopulation trend:\n\nMother tongue language (2006)\n\n<br>\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2314357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314357", "title": "Ford Rainey", "text": "Ford Rainey\n\nFord Rainey (August 8, 1908 – July 25, 2005) was an American film, stage, and television actor.\n\nRainey was born in Mountain Home, Idaho, the son of Vyrna (née Kinkade), a teacher, and Archie Coleman Rainey. He first acted on the stage while a student at Centralia High School, where he graduated in 1927. Rainey graduated from Centralia Junior College in Washington state and in 1933 from the Cornish School, now Cornish College of the Arts, in Seattle.\n\nHe then moved to Connecticut to study acting at the Michael Chekhov Theatre Studio. Growing up in the outdoors and learning to ride horses helped him in his career as a tough-guy film presence later in life. Like many young actors, he worked odd jobs including logger, fisherman, fruit picker, carpenter, clam digger and working on an oil tanker before becoming a successful actor.\n\nHe served in the U.S. Coast Guard during World War II.\n\nRainey worked at radio stations KJR and KOMO in Seattle, Washington, as well as being a touring stage actor before breaking into films. His Broadway debut was in a 1939 Chekhov production of \"The Possessed\" with fellow Cornish alumnus Beatrice Straight that had a run of 14 performances. After the war he moved to Ojai, California, where he, Woodrow Chambliss and other actors who had studied under Chekhov founded the Ojai Valley Players.\n\nHe made his film debut in \"White Heat\" in 1949 and became a familiar face in motion pictures, appearing in \"Perfect Strangers\" (1950), \"Two Rode Together\" (1961), \"40 Pounds of Trouble\" (1962), \"Johnny Tiger\" (1966), and \"The Sand Pebbles\" (1966). His other film credits included \"The Gypsy Moths\" (1969), \"The Naked Zoo\" (1970), \"The Traveling Executioner\" (1970), \"My Old Man's Place\" (1971), \"Sixteen\" (1973), the horror films \"Halloween II\" (1981) and \"The Cellar\" (1989), \"Bed & Breakfast\" (1992), \"Inferno\" (1999). He also co-starred in the acclaimed television movie \"My Sweet Charlie\" (1970), and appeared in other TV movies such as \"A Howling in the Woods\" (1971) and \"The Stranger Who Looks Like Me\" (1974).\n\nHe guest-starred on many television series, including \"The Adventures of Kit Carson\", \"Bonanza\", \"The Invaders\", \"The Brothers Brannagan\" (in the 1961 series finale \"The Hunter and the Hunted\"), \"The Tall Man\", \"Stoney Burke\", \"Daniel Boone\", \"Gunsmoke\",\"The Wild Wild West\", \"Empire\", \"Dundee and the Culhane\", \"Baa Baa Black Sheep\", \"How the West was Won (aka The Macahans)\", \"The Untouchables\", and the 1976 western \"Sara\". The tall austere, authoritative-looking actor was a natural at playing leaders.\n\nIn the 1961–62 season Rainey co-starred with Robert Young in the CBS series \"Window on Main Street,\" in which he portrayed newspaper editor Lloyd Ramsey. In 1963–1964, he was a member of the regular cast of the NBC anthology series \"The Richard Boone Show\". He portrayed Dr. Barnett on the NBC crime drama \"Search\" in 1972–1973, he had the role of Police Chief Vernon in \"Tenafly\" in 1973–1974, and he played James Barrett on the crime drama \"The Manhunter\" on CBS in 1974–1975.\n\nBetween 1962–65 Rainey made four guest appearances on the CBS courtroom series \"Perry Mason\", beginning with the role of Russell Durham in \"The Case of the Unsuitable Uncle.\" In 1964 he played murder victim Harry Trilling in \"The Case of the Ugly Duckling.\"\n\nRainey portrayed the adoptive father of Lee Majors' Steve Austin (\"The Six Million Dollar Man\"), and the foster father of Jaime Sommers (\"The Bionic Woman\") (credit pictured). He appeared in the 1987 miniseries \"Amerika\".\n\nRainey played a general on CBS' \"M*A*S*H\", and a judge on both \"The Waltons\" and \"Matlock\". He played presidents on \"Lost in Space\", \"The Time Tunnel\", and on \"Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea\". Later television appearances, in the 1990s and 2000s, include \"ER\" and recurring roles on \"Wiseguy\", \"Ned and Stacey\", and \"The King of Queens\". He could also be seen in some commercials in the middle 1970s through the 1980s, such as REACH toothbrushes; a Johnson & Johnson product. During that time he was part of Trinity Square Repertory Company in Providence, Rhode Island.\n\nFord Rainey was a bachelor until the age of 46, when, in 1954, he married Sheila Hayden and settled in New York City, where sons Robert and James were born. The family moved to Malibu, California, where daughter Kathy was born.\n\nRainey remained in Malibu with his wife while he acted and enjoyed hobbies such as beekeeping and bird breeding until his death on July 25, 2005, of a stroke, at the age of 96. His interment was in Westwood Village Memorial Park Cemetery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314361", "title": "National Institute for Medical Research", "text": "National Institute for Medical Research\n\nThe National Institute for Medical Research (commonly abbreviated to NIMR), was a medical research institute based in Mill Hill, on the outskirts of north London, England. It was funded by the Medical Research Council (MRC);\n\nIn 2016, the NIMR became part of the new Francis Crick Institute, which was constructed next to St Pancras railway station in the Camden area of central London.\n\nThe Medical Research Council, founded in 1913, was immediately charged with establishing a central research institute in London. Later that year, premises at Hampstead were acquired and the National Institute for Medical Research was founded.\n\nHowever, the outbreak of World War I soon afterwards postponed occupation of the building, although senior staff were appointed and began work. By 1920 the Institute at Mount Vernon Hospital was fully operational and remained so for 30 years until the move to its current location at Mill Hill. The original Institute, under the directorship of Sir Henry Dale, had three divisions:\n\n\nDale oversaw a period of considerable success at NIMR, including the discovery of the human influenza virus in 1933 and the discovery of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine, for which Dale himself received the 1936 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine.\n\nIn the 1930s, the decision was made to move the Institute to new premises. An imposing copper-roofed building at Mill Hill was designed by Maxwell Ayrton, the architect of the original Wembley Stadium, and construction began in 1937. Occupation was delayed when war broke out in 1939 and the building was given to the Women's Royal Naval Service. The building was returned to the MRC in autumn 1949 but Dale had retired in 1942 and so was never director on the new site, that job falling to his successor Sir Charles Harington.\nThe official opening ceremony took place on 5 May 1950, with King George VI and Queen Elizabeth present. Harington expanded the research programme into ten divisions during his 20-year tenure and guided researchers at the Institute to, amongst other achievements, the development of gas chromatography and the discovery of interferon. From 1950-55 Albert Neuberger was Head of Biochemistry at the Institute.\n\nIn 1962, Nobel Prize winner Sir Peter Medawar became director and, consistent with his research interests, established NIMR as a major centre for immunological research. Following an illness, Medawar retired as director in 1971 to be replaced by Sir Arnold Burgen. Burgan had an interest in nuclear magnetic resonance techniques and formed the MRC Biomedical NMR Centre at the Institute in 1980. Sir Dai Rees became director in 1982 to be replaced by Sir John Skehel in 1987. Since then NIMR has continued to excel scientifically, reporting perhaps most famously the discovery of the sex determining gene SRY, in 1991.\n\nIn 2003, as part of their Forward Investment Strategy, the MRC announced plans to consider moving NIMR from its current location to a university/medical school site, to enhance its ability \"to translate its biomedical research into practical health outcomes.\"\n\nSome staff at the NIMR, including Robin Lovell-Badge and Skehel, expressed opposition to a move. In response to accusations of \"coercion\" during the review process, a House of Commons select committee investigation criticised both the MRC for losing the confidence of NIMR workers, and unnamed NIMR staff for \"undermining [Colin] Blakemore's position as MRC chief executive.\" \n\nIn September 2006, Skehel retired as NIMR director and Sir Keith Peters became acting director until the future structure of the new institute could be finalised. In July of that year the MRC announced that Scott Fraser of the California Institute of Technology had been invited to take over the directorship. According to Blakemore, negotiations were ongoing as of December 2006. However, finally, in October 2008, Jim Smith of the Gurdon Institute, University of Cambridge (who worked at the NIMR from 1984 to 2000), accepted the directorship, with effect from January 2009.\n\nOn 1 April 2015, the NIMR became part of the new Francis Crick Institute and ceased to exist as a separate MRC institute. The site at Mill Hill was fully vacated and closed for redevelopment during 2017.\n\nIn 2018 they started to demolish the building to make way for new homes.\n\nA yearly collection of essays is produced by guest authors and staff at the Institute, under the title Mill Hill Essays. They are written to be accessible and informative to the lay reader.\n\n\nThe rooms and other locations in the building were used in the film \"Batman Begins\", for the Arkham Asylum scenes.\n\nThe location was also used in Episode 2, Series 2 of the Channel 4 comedy series, 'Toast of London' to double as a tax office with the character of Ray Purchase seen entering the building.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314364", "title": "Red beans and rice", "text": "Red beans and rice\n\nRed beans and rice is an emblematic dish of Louisiana Creole cuisine (not originally of Cajun cuisine) traditionally made on Mondays with red beans, vegetables (bell pepper, onion, and celery), spices (thyme, cayenne pepper, and bay leaf) and pork bones as left over from Sunday dinner, cooked together slowly in a pot and served over rice. Meats such as ham, sausage (most commonly andouille), and tasso ham are also frequently used in the dish. The dish is customary – ham was traditionally a Sunday meal and Monday was washday. A pot of beans could sit on the stove and simmer while the women were busy scrubbing clothes. The dish is now fairly common throughout the Southeast. Similar dishes are common in Latin American cuisine, including moros y cristianos, gallo pinto and feijoada.\n\nRed beans and rice is one of the few New Orleans style dishes to be commonly served both in people's homes and in restaurants. Many neighborhood restaurants and even schools continue to serve it as a Monday lunch or dinner special, usually with a side order of cornbread and either smoked sausage or a pork chop. While Monday washdays are largely a thing of the past, red beans remain a staple for large gatherings such as Super Bowl and Mardi Gras parties. Indeed, red beans and rice is very much part of the New Orleans identity. New Orleanian Louis Armstrong's favorite food was red beans and rice – the musician would sign letters \"Red Beans and Ricely Yours, Louis Armstrong\". And in 1965, the R&B instrumental group Booker T. & the M.G.'s wrote and recorded a song titled \"Red Beans and Rice\" that was originally a B-side but later became popular in its own right.\n\nThe vegetarian dish Rajma chawal is very similar (which translates literally to \"red beans and rice\"), popular in North India. Red beans and rice is also a dietary staple in Central America, where it is known as \"arroz con habichuelas\". The dish is popular in Cuban, Puerto Rican, Dominican, Haitian and Jamaican cuisine as well.\n\nRed kidney beans or small red beans are used and they are usually (but not always) soaked beforehand. Add celery, onion, and peppers to the pot along with a ham hock. Add water. Bring to a boil then reduce to a simmer for several hours or until the beans are soft. \n\nThe dish is highly nutritious. Rice is rich in starch, an excellent source of energy. Rice also has iron, vitamin B and protein. Beans also contain a good amount of iron and an even greater amount of protein than rice. Together they make up a complete protein, which provides each of the amino acids the body cannot make for itself.\n\nIn addition, rice and beans are common and affordable ingredients, often available in difficult economic times.\n\n"}
{"id": "2314373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314373", "title": "Scania OmniCity", "text": "Scania OmniCity\n\nThe Scania OmniCity is an integrally constructed transverse-engined low floor city bus that was available from Scania on the European market between 1997 and 2012.\n\nThe OmniCity was introduced in September 1996 as the first product based on the 4-series bus range. The first prototypes were built in the former DAB plant in Silkeborg, Denmark, and serial production continued there in 1997, joined by Scania's plant in Katrineholm, Sweden. From 1999 it was also built at the plant in Słupsk, Poland. Production in Silkeborg ended in early 2000, and Katrineholm in 2004, with only a few test buses in 2005 to 2006. Since then all have been built in Poland.\n\nIn 2006, the OmniCity was upgraded from the 4-series to the new N-series, which also included a thorough facelift, with the large rectangular front headlamps being replaced by smaller, round items, and further tweaks carried out to the rear styling.\n\nThe Scania Citywide was launched in 2011 as a replacement for the OmniCity, except for the right-hand drive markets, where Scania have chosen to rely on external bodywork manufacturers, including Alexander Dennis. With a total of more than 2200 units, the last few OmniCities were built in 2012.\n\nThe single-decker OmniCity was first introduced in 1996 in left-hand drive form and in 2002 in right-hand drive for the UK market.\n\nThe earlier version of the single-decker OmniCity was known as the CN94UB. But the Euro IV version was known as the CN230UB or CN270UB, the 230 and 270 indicate the maximum power (in hp) of the engine.\n\nThe Scania OmniCity single-decker has a rounded roof dome (more rounded than the Citywide LF) with a single-curvature windscreen and a separate destination blind. Unlike the Scania L94UB and OmniLink, the OmniCity features a full low floor without the need for steps or ramps to reach the rear seats, similar to the Volvo B7L.\n\nIn February–March 2008 Metrobus, Crawley took delivery of the third 10.7m OmniCities in the UK for the new Fastway route 100. They featured part-leather seating and only one door – most Fastway buses have two – and entered service on 10 May 2008.\n\nIn 2005, Scania announced the introduction of the OmniCity 2-axle double-decker bus in order to complement its OmniDekka double-decker bus sold in the UK. It has a full low floor and is a complete Scania product, unlike the OmniDekka which features a body by East Lancashire Coachbuilders. The early 2-axle double-decker OmniCity uses the N94UD chassis, the same as the OmniDekka.\n\nA demonstrator was delivered to Travel West Midlands (now National Express West Midlands) and entered service in November 2005. The first order is five buses for Lothian Buses of Edinburgh, Scotland which entered service during August–September 2006 and are in the Airlink livery. Later Lothian Buses ordered a further 10 buses to replace the Tridents on the route, these buses entered service in late 2007. There are also 15 for Transdev London which entered service in late 2006.\n\nAt first, it was in limited production, until the Euro IV version was launched. The reason for this is because the new Euro IV Scania engine is a five-cylinder 9-litre EGR engine as opposed to its Euro III predecessor, which is a six-cylinder 9-litre engine. The chassis designation has also changed to N230UD or N270UD.\n\nFurther orders were announced in late 2007, with many Go-Ahead companies buying them, such as Solent Blue Line, Southern Vectis and Wilts & Dorset. Metrobus also cancelled an order for two Scania/Darwen Olympus, for two OmniCitys, following the very long delays in production of the Olympus.\n\nThe single-decker articulated (or \"bendy bus\") version of the OmniCity was first introduced in 1996. The articulated OmniCity built by 2006 was known as the CN94UA.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, a demonstrator toured London in 2004, but failed to win any orders in place of the Mercedes-Benz Citaro. After other trials around the country, this bus was bought by Lothian Buses in April 2008, and then acquired by Nottingham City Transport after it left Lothian Buses in late August 2009. In 2005, Travel West Midlands ordered a batch, and in 2006, a group of high-specification artics entered service with Cardiff Bus on high-profile routes. Also in summer 2005 First Greater Manchester placed eighteen in service, predominantly between Manchester and Bury.\n\nThe Euro IV/V/EEV articulated version of the OmniCity was known as the CN280UA. In the UK, they are currently about 10 of them in use around Heathrow Airport.\n"}
{"id": "2314374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314374", "title": "Longford Hall", "text": "Longford Hall\n\nLongford Hall is a large country house in Longford, a village in Shropshire, England near the town of Newport, built in 1795 for Colonel Ralph Leeke who was political agent of the British East India Company, designed by Joseph Bonomi, who had worked with Robert and James Adam. The hall is Grade II* listed with English Heritage.\n\nThe hall is placed on top of a low rise and looks over farmland towards the Lilleshall Monument which is surrounded by burials. As with many such buildings, the first 100 feet in front of the hall is manicured grass, bordered by a ha-ha which prevented animals from entering. There is a small series of gardens, including a \"quad\". Behind the hall are a selection of buildings around a central square containing a dovecote which once formed the farm supporting the estate. These buildings were renovated and sensitively converted into housing between 2001 and 2004. The central dovecote is circular and forms an unusual dwelling.\n\nThe hall and lands are currently owned by Haberdashers’ Adams School and are used by them as the school's junior boarding house and sports fields. Some land was sold off in 2000 for private housing - now the \"Longford Park\" housing estate. To get between the school and the hall, one travels approximately one mile along Longford Road.\n\nAcross the playing fields, approximately 500 metres, is the Longford Lake. This large artificial pool is used for private fishing by the school and holds a wide variety of fish, including carp.\n\nBoarding House Masters at Longford Hall have included:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314398", "title": "Eastern Junior Hockey League", "text": "Eastern Junior Hockey League\n\nThe Eastern Junior Hockey League (EJHL) was a USA Hockey-sanctioned Tier III Junior A ice hockey league. Founded in 1993 by Dan Esdale, the EJHL had fourteen teams from across the Northeastern United States. The EJHL champion then competed for the National Championship against the champions of the other Tier III leagues and a host city. The New Jersey Hitmen were the final EJHL Champions after the 2012–13 season.\n\nThe league was formed in 1993 with the NECDL Classics, the Rhode Island Sharks, the Tyngsborough Huskies, the Matt O'Neil Lightning, the Granite State Stars and the Springfield Olympics. The following year the Niagara Scenics joined the league from the North American Hockey League. The Scenics later left for the Metro Junior A Hockey League in Ontario. In the subsequent years, the league has added the Bridgewater Bandits (1996); Valley Jr. Warriors (1996); NY Apple Core (1997); Capital District (1999); Bay State Breakers (1999); Junior Bruins (1999); Green Mountain Glades (2000); NJ Hitmen (2004) and the Syracuse Stars (2005 and later moved to Rochester in 2010) who joined from the Ontario Provincial Junior A Hockey League. The league has quickly been gaining prestige across the United States as teams such as the Hitmen and Monarchs compete with other top junior teams.\n\nHowever, during the 2012–13 season, EJHL members the Boston Junior Bruins, Islanders Hockey Club (formerly Middlesex Islanders), New Jersey Hitmen, and the South Shore Kings announced they were forming a new league called the United States Premier Hockey League. They would eventually be followed by the Bay State Breakers and the Portland Jr. Pirates from the EJHL while adding other teams to make up the Premier Division of the USPHL. The EJHL would disband when the Boston Bandits, Connecticut Oilers, New Hampshire Junior Monarchs, New York Apple Core, Philadelphia Revolution, and the Valley Jr. Warriors joined the Atlantic Junior Hockey League which would rename itself to the Eastern Hockey League. \n\nTeams that played in the final 2012–13 season.\nThe winning team in the EJHL was awarded the Gary Dineen Cup, named for the late Gary Dineen, one of the founders of the New England Junior Hockey League and of the New England Junior Falcons\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314403", "title": "Brampton Library", "text": "Brampton Library\n\nFunded by the City, the Brampton Library is a system of public libraries in Brampton, Ontario, Canada.\n\nIn the 2003 Ontario Public Library Week (October 20 to 26), the library was rebranded with a new logo, and a change in name from the Brampton Public Library to the simpler and more direct Brampton Library. The shorter name has had mixed reception, with many patrons still referring to it by its old name, out of habit and the lack of need to refer to it differently.\n\nThere are currently seven permanent locations. Brampton Library has a collection of more than 562,000 books, magazines, large print materials, audio books, and DVDs. Currently, the library has a staff of 160 full-time and part-time employees. Brampton Library services a population of just under 600,000 people of more than 200 distinct ethnicities.\n\nRebecca Raven is the Chief Executive Officer of the Brampton Library, a position that replaces that of Executive Director.\n\nAs early as 1858, a library was founded in the Mechanic's Institute, serving the mere 50 people in what was then classified as Brampton. These 360 volumes, plus a federal grant of $160, were the starting blocks for the first actual public library in Brampton, founded in 1887 in the Golding Building on Queen Street. As printing presses were still relatively expensive to operate, and thus book prices high, the village-owned facility had full written contracts with patrons to check out books. Only the librarian and the library board were allowed to take books off the closely watched shelves.\n\nIn 1907, the library successfully received a grant from US steel magnate Andrew Carnegie to build a new library. Carnegie was a self-made millionaire with \"very little formal education\", and a well known drive to bring \"learning to the masses\". Records show donations to 1700 libraries, and the hundreds of facilities across the continent still bearing his name are living proof.\n\nDespite being a supporter of culture in general, Carnegie was opposed to the multipurpose facility the village intended to build, as it exceeded his default start-up donation of $10,000. After a meeting with the Brampton Board of Trade's R.J. Copeland, and a promise from Brampton itself to up its funding from $1000 to $1250 a year, Carnegie provided another $12,500 for the town's long-time showpiece facility.\n\nIn 1946, the Brampton library took on a relatively novel concept for the era, in letting residents under the age of 16 sign out books from the collection.\n\nDuring the 1960s and 1970s, the system expanded to fit the needs of a growing population. The expansion included the Northwood Park Branch (Flowertown and McLaughlin), South Branch (at Brampton Mall on Main Street at Nanwood), and Heart Lake Branch. The Heart Lake branch would later become known as \"Cyril Clark\", after a Chinguacousy reeve.\n\nIn 1972, developer Bramalea Consolidated Developments Ltd constructed the Civic Centre facility for the town of Bramalea, the cornerstone of which was officially laid as part of the finished building during Brampton's Centennial celebrations in 1973. Along with government offices and a theatre, this facility included a large space for a central library branch. When Brampton and Bramalea merged in 1974, their library systems became one. Bramalea's Chinguacousy Branch joined Brampton's Main Branch (which had replaced the Carnegie library with a larger building next door, and which was later renamed to \"Four Corners Branch\" due to its location near downtown Brampton's Four Corners) and others, becoming the system's resource library. As the reference branch, Chinguacousy was host to an extensive collection of microfilm, local history materials, and genealogy resources. In 2008 the majority of these materials were moved to the Four Corners location in the newly renovated Local History section on the second floor.\n\nBooks-by-mail services ended in 1975.\n\nA neighbourhood branch was eventually created in a mall at Ray Lawson Blvd. and Hurontario St., and renamed the County Court Branch when it was moved to an office building nearby (later renamed again to Fletcher's Creek Branch). When the South Fletchers Sportsplex was built, Fletcher's Creek moved from private to public property, and was renamed South Fletchers Branch.\n\nIn 2011, the Brampton Library system opened the new Mount Pleasant branch in the north-west area of the city. This replaced the North-West interim branch which had been located approximately north-west of the new regular branch.\n\nThe Gore Meadows branch was built in the north-east of the city on Castlemore Road at The Gore Road and opened in 2013. This location is part of a city recreation centre located in parkland that is planned to provide multiple services, similar to Chinguacousy Park.\n\nIn addition to the six regular branches, Brampton Library also operated an interim site in the north-east region of the city. This housed a very small collection, mostly DVDs and paperbacks, as well as allowing customers a location at which to pick up and return items. A new full-service location at Torbram and Sandlewood, one kilometre north of the former North-East Interim site, is planned to start providing services to residents in the surrounding area in 2017. This interim site closed October 1, 2016; the lease on the site was not renewed because at the time the nearby full-service branch was expected to begin operating in the summer of 2016.\n\nDiscussions are still ongoing regarding replacing the current downtown branch with a modern facility.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314410", "title": "Sidney Hertzberg", "text": "Sidney Hertzberg\n\nSidney \"Sonny\" Hertzberg (July 29, 1922 – July 24, 2005) was an American professional basketball player.\n\nHertzberg was born in Brooklyn, New York, grew up in Crown Heights, and was Jewish. Hertzberg played at Samuel J. Tilden High School and City College of New York, where he was a teammate of longtime Knicks coach Red Holzman.\n\nHertzberg began his professional career in 1946, signing with his home team New York Knicks. He played with the team in the inaugural Basketball Association of America season in 1946–47. He played five games with the team in the 1947–48 before being released. Hertzberg signed with the Washington Capitols, and played for two seasons with the team under future Hall of Fame coach Red Auerbach. On September 28, 1949, Hertzberg was traded to the Boston Celtics for Chick Halbert. Hertzberg was reunited with former Washington coach Auerbach in his second season with Boston in 1950–51. Auerbach and rookie point guard Bob Cousy referred to Hertzberg as \"the second coach on the floor\", and he was respected for his playmaking and court savviness.\n\nAfter playing five seasons of professional basketball, Hertzberg served as a scout and broadcasting commentator for the Knicks.\n\nHe is a member of the New York City Basketball Hall of Fame, the Old-Timers Basketball Hall of Fame, the City College Hall of Fame, and the National Jewish Sports Hall of Fame.\n\nHertzberg went on to become a managing director of Bear Stearns, an investment banking and brokerage firm.\n\nHertzberg died of heart failure on July 24, 2005 at his home in Woodmere, New York.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314418", "title": "Brampton Fall Fair", "text": "Brampton Fall Fair\n\nThe Brampton Fall Fair is an annual agricultural and entertainment event in Brampton, Ontario. It features agricultural displays, animals, 4H events, a midway, entertainment, demolition derby, and a Homecraft exhibit.\n\nThe first Brampton Fall Fair was held in 1853. During the early 1830s, farmers from the 212 farms of Chinguacousy Township, Ontario gathered at Martin Salisbury's Tavern for biannual fairs.\n\nAs the Industrial Revolution and other influences changed society, agriculture transformed from a subsistence process to a commercial industry, a change that was followed by an increase in demand for equipment, supplies, and power. The government created an act in 1853 to enable and assist counties in forming agricultural boards. The resulting government-funded organization was the County of Peel Agricultural Society.\n\nIn 1853, a small agricultural fair was set up by the organization and held to the west of Main and Queen Streets, near the current location of Brampton City Hall.\n\nThe event was modest overall. Prized horses and cattle were showcased, and whole grains, root vegetables, dairy and other produce were displayed for sale. One could suggest this was the precursor of today's Brampton Farmers' Market. This agricultural fair eventually became the modern Brampton Fall Fair.\n\nThe original fairgrounds spanned seven acres (28328.00m²) and were located at Wellington and Main Street. The land was purchased in 1871 for $1235. This property was eventually sold to make way for the County Jail and Courthouse. The Peel Heritage Complex museum and art gallery now occupy the property. In 1884, the fairgrounds were relocated to thirteen acres {52609m²} of land on Elliot Street. According to \"Brampton: An Illustrated History\", the land from the Elliot Street location was sold to the Agricultural Society by William McConnell, owner of the Brampton Driving Park.\n\nOnce a highlight for farmers, draft horse competitions were replaced in the 1920s by tractor demonstrations. Still, many of the Fair's displayed picks for top riding horses went on to win at the Canadian National Exhibition and Royal Agricultural Winter Fair.\n\nThe Junior Farmers' Building and the Memorial Arena were erected on the Brampton Fall Fair Elliot Street grounds in 1950, and the Brampton Curling Club was constructed in 1951. Because of its unique all-wood roof structure, Memorial Arena has recently been used for a Tim Hortons ad. The Canadian curling-themed feature film \"Men with Brooms\" (2002), starring Paul Gross and Leslie Nielsen, was partially filmed at the Memorial and the Brampton Curling Club. A lacrosse box was added to the ground in 1971.\n\nMost residents associate the Brampton Fall Fair with midway rides and games more than agriculture and handicrafts. This association began in 1975, with the addition of Campbell Amusements. The 1980s brought antique car shows to the fair, and the 1990s brought the demolition derbies.\n\nThe Brampton Fair Grounds (Now Old Fairgrounds Park) were sold to the City of Brampton in March 1992, with the exception of the Brampton Curling Club properties.\n\nIn 1995, the Region of Peel Agricultural Society bought of land at Heart Lake Road and Old School Road in Caledon, Ontario, moving the fair to that location in September 1997 for its 144th season. \n\nThe new location includes the Peel Junior Farmers Hall (6,000 sq. ft.), meeting rooms, the Show and Sale Pavilion (33,000 sq. ft.), ten multi-purpose buildings, and outdoor show rings.\n\nThe Fall Fair's Homecraft Division, consists of arts & crafts, photography, handicrafts, needlework, baking and kitchen craft, gardening and flowers, fruits and vegetables, quilting, arrangements, and antiques. Many of these categories have both junior and adult versions. Special categories for developmentally challenged students have been introduced recently to the fair.\n\nThere are four permanent structures on the fairgrounds:\n\n\n\nDespite the job title, the position is equivalent to a manager.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314420", "title": "Cócorit", "text": "Cócorit\n\nCócorit is a town located in the municipality of Cajeme in the southern part of the Mexican state of Sonora. The name of the town is derived from the Yaqui (Yoem noki, or Hiak noki) word for a chili pepper, \"ko'oko'i.\" Cócorit and the municipality of Cajeme are within the Yaqui River Valley. The \"comisario municipal\" (\"municipal commissioner\") of Cajeme is Ing. Arturo Soto Valenzuela. Cócorit reported a 2005 census population of 7,953 inhabitants, and is the fifth-largest town in the municipality of Cajeme (after Ciudad Obregón, Esperanza, Pueblo Yaqui, and Tobarito).\n\nThe town was founded in 1617 by the Spanish Jesuit missionaries Andrés Pérez de Ribas and Tomás Basilio, although the Spanish inhabitants were eventually forced to leave by the Yaqui native population of the area. In 1835 the town was reestablished, this time in an independent Mexico; the town was a dependency of the municipio of Buenavista. In 1867, the governor of Sonora (Pesqueira) organized two successful military expeditions to control the Yaquis in Cócorit, and in neighboring Guaymas. In 1875, Cajemé, a prominent Yaqui leader, attacked Cócorit, setting the town on fire. Under the protection of the Mexican army, Cócorit was repopulated in 1885 with inhabitants from the neighboring towns of El Quiriego and Baroyeca. In 1886, the Yaquis continued to strengthen their positions, but the state and federal governments confiscated more than 20,000 head of livestock that belonged to the Yaquis, weakening their position. In 1887 Cajemé was captured. After an interview with Ramón Corral, Cajemé was taken in the custody of a Mexican army detachment led by Lieutenant Clemente Patiño to El Médano on the steamboat \"Demócrata.\" He paraded through some of the Yaqui towns, and was then shot by the detachment on the pretense that he was trying to escape.\n\nIn the early 20th century, the Conant family received a concession from the Mexican government to develop agriculture in the Valley. American immigrants arrived and built a fire station and a water tower. The area was flooded after two years, and the population sought refuge in Providencia. In 1917, after the first World War, German and Yugoslav families sought refuge in the Valley. A year later, one of the immigrants, Herman Bruss, introduced the first internal combustion tractor, further supporting agriculture.\n\nIn 1927 Cócorit became its own short-lived municipio. In 1928 when the growing neighboring town of Cajeme changed its name to \"Ciudad Obregón\", it became the \"cabecera\" (capital) of the municipio.\n\nThe main attraction of the town is \"La Casona Cócorit\" (\"Cócorit Mansion\"), built in the (19th century) in the style of colonial architecture. The mansion is currently an art museum with permanent exhibits of paintings and handicrafts. Also, old adobe houses in the town are still preserved, and are an attraction. One of the main festivities is the \"Feria de San Juan Cócorit\" (\"San Juan Cócorit Fair\") that takes place every summer on June 24. The \"Fundación Cócorit\" (\"The Cócorit Foundation\") also organizes its own fair with artistic presentations.\n\n"}
{"id": "2314424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314424", "title": "History of the Kurdistan Workers' Party", "text": "History of the Kurdistan Workers' Party\n\nThe history of the Kurdistan Workers' Party began in 1974 as a Marxist–Leninist organization under the leadership of Abdullah Öcalan. In 1978 the organization adopted the name \"Kurdistan Workers Party\" and waged Urban War between 1978–1980. The organization restructured itself and moved the organization structure to Syria between 1980–1984 just after the 1980 Turkish coup d'état. The campaign of armed conflict began in 1984. The rural-based insurgency lasted between 1984–1992. The PKK shifted its activities to include urban attacks against Turkish military bases between 1993–1995 and later 1996–1999. The leader of the party was captured in Kenya in early 1999. After a \"self declared peace initiative of 1999\", returned to active stage in February 2004. Since 1974, it had been able to evolve and adapt, having gone through a metamorphosis, which became the main factor in its survival. It had gradually grown from a handful of political students to an armed organization.\n\nThe PKK's origins can be traced back to 1974 when Öcalan and a small group of leftist students from \"Dev-Genç\" (\"Revolutionary Youth\") decided to develop a Kurdish-based left wing organization. \"Dev-Genç\" originated in the 1960s from the radical left in Turkey and drew its leaders, members and militants from the disenfranchised. The group involved in violent clashes with radical right-wing organizations. Violent confrontations with the police were common. Numerous groups and organizations arose which, in one way or another, regarded themselves as socialist. \"\"Dev-Genç\"\" also arose from a rebellion against the leadership of the newly founded social democratic TIP (Workers Party) in the mid-1960s. Most of these organization were crushed by the security establishment. The members of this new small organization actively participated in different branches of \"Dev-Genç\". In 1971 Abdullah Öcalan joined the underground movements trying to overthrow the government system, which he saw as an oppressive and fascist, while he was student at the Ankara University Political Sciences Faculty. Öcalan was also sympathetic with the People's Liberation Party of Turkey (THKO). Öcalan used the skills and the social network that he developed during this period to become the leader. Like \"\"Dev-Genç\"\", Apocus was a splinter organization.\n\nWhat made Apocus, later PKK, different was that it decided to move its activities from Ankara, capital city, to southern border towns of Turkey. Unlike most Kurdish political parties, which adopted a rather conservative outlook and were organized around tribal leaders and structures, they had a fierce stance, strong convictions, and a disciplined but decentralized organization which contributed to a steady rise and growing effectiveness Much of the early development was inspired by the rise of decolonization movements and their potential to be adapted to the Kurdish question. Transferring to southern border towns with a radical left rhetoric gave this group initial resources during a time when Turkey had problems with Syria and was a pawn in the proxy wars of the Cold War.\n\nThe core of the organization established with 16 members, led by political science student Öcalan, later to be his wife Kesire Yildirim, Cemil Bayik, Baki Karer, Kemal Pir, Mehmet Sevgat, Mehmet Karasungur and ten other members with the name Ankara Democratic Association of Higher Education (ADYÖD). The organization was located in Ankara. During this period, Öcalan and his supporters were generally known as Apocus, in Turkish \"Apocular\". Today, there are only a few still living or following the cause, a result of a combination of factors, including disputes internal to the PKK.\n\nAlthough originally based in Ankara, Öcalan decided that there was a better base in south-east Turkey. Öcalan recognized that he can organize and build a secure base to perform activities by using the tribal system in the region. He focused on tribes that are not historically coexisting peacefully with the government. Thus, Öcalan focused much of his attention from 1976–78 to building a PKK structure in that region. It was a secret organization, but deciphered by Turkish Intelligence in 1977.\n\nOn May 18, 1977, Haki Karer, who belonged to small group of confidants, a housemate of Öcalan, not a Kurd but a Turk from Ordu, was dispatched to Gaziantep to recruit new members. He was involved in a political discussion with another left Kurdish faction called \"Sterka Sor\" (Red Star) in a coffee shop. He was killed in Gaziantep, allegedly by members of the Kurdish group \"Sterka Sor\". This was the first resistance against Apocular by a rival Kurdish group. From that moment Apocular become more careful, strict and violent. In the party's historiography, the death of Haki Karer is related to the decision to deepen and strengthen the struggle.\n\nOn 27 November 1978, during a meeting in a village called Fis, in the district of Lice, north of Diyarbakir, it was decided to form a political party. The name of the party, Partiya Karkerên Kurdistanê was decided on later, in April 1979, when the meeting of the central committee. The meeting in Fis later got to be remembered as the First Congress of the PKK. 24 people were invited of which 22 attended. It was decided that the people present at the meeting, together with former revolutionaries who died, were to be the first members of the party. Elected as General Secretary was Öcalan, and as members of the Central Executive Committee Mehmet Karasunğur and Sahin Dönmez. Karasungur was also elected as the responsible for the armed resistance. The ideological footprints during this period was detailed in the proclamation. The official release of the \"Proclamation of Independence of PKK\", a document, stated that primary objective was to foster a communist revolution in Turkey. The group did not claimed to be secessionist in this document. They wanted a proletarian revolution inspired by the ideas of Marxism that aims to replace capitalism with communism. The group attracted many oppressed Kurdish students.\n\nStarting in 1978, the organization attacked groups that they perceived as \"fascist\" and pro-government. The PKK focused its attacks primarily against perceived state collaborators, and Kurdish tribes that had historically coexisted with the government and haven't supported the Kurdish rights.\n\nIn 1979 Mehmet Celal Bucak a high-ranking member of the conservative Justice Party was condemned for \"exploiting the peasants,\" and \"collaborating with government\" against the Kurdish right. PKK decided to use fighting against the landlords in Hilvan and Siverek to show up its nationalism ideology. PKK failed in its attempted to assassinate Mehmet Celal Bucak. This was the first known activity by the PKK. The planned assassination was an example of propaganda-of-the-deed.\n\nOn November 28, 1979 the first response of the government was performed. Turkey did not know the name PKK but listed the organization with its old name Apocular. 242 members of this organization were captured at Hilvan and Siverek residences. Bucak tribe became an enemy to PKK and from 1979 to 1991, the Bucak tribe lost 140 members to clashes with the PKK.\n\nIn two years, the country turned into a battleground. From 1978 to 1982, the Turkish National Security Council recorded approximately 43,000 incidents it described as \"terrorism\". The overall number of death people of the 1970s is estimated at 5,000 including civilians. With the 1980 assassination of a former prime minister, Nihat Erim who was assassinated by radical Turkish leftist organization Dev Sol, the discovery of gun depots, civil disorder, political indecision (parliament was unable to select a president) and, most importantly, the Iran–Iraq War, a coup took place, initiating a series of trials. In the central trial, against the left-wing organization Devrimci Yol (Revolutionary Path) at Ankara Military Court, the defendants listed 5,388 political killings before the military coup. Among the victims were 1,296 right wingers and 2,109 left-wingers. The others could not clearly be related. In this period, the number of deaths attributed to the PKK was approximately 240. Many right-wing organizations saw the PKK as a threat to their existence. The military tribunals of the 1980 coup which tried 7,000 people revealed a recorded 5,241 dead and 14,152 wounded from 1979 to 1980. The PKK made up 21% of the total 5,241 caseload.\n\nFollowing imprisonment, the captured PKK members set up an elaborate resistance organization that would operate even behind bars. This organization became famous for their hunger strikes. They also smuggled in guns and communication equipment into prison. Recruitment and training became commonplace for imprisoned PKK members.\n\nAll through this time, Öcalan eluded capture and remained in control. He fled the country in 1979. Even before the coup, Öcalan knew that he had to restructure PKK to continue its activities. In 1979, Öcalan moved to Bekaa valley, he had chance to develop his connection from where dev-genç left. His initial accommodations were covered through already established ASALA structure and Fatah camps, in part of ex-Syrian-controlled Lebanon. Until 1999 Syria had provided valuable safe havens to the organization in the region of Beqaa Valley.\n\n It was alleged that Soviet Armenian KGB officer Karen Brutents was behind the militant structure that was adapted by PKK and methods used by ASALA. Since pro-Soviet Armenians had participated in the founding of an anti-Turkish Kurdish party already in 1927, the theories, arguments, propaganda methods and activity structures were well established. According to the former KGB-FSB officer Alexander Litvinenko, who was assassinated in 2006, PKK's Öcalan was trained by KGB-FSB.\n\nFrom August 20–25, 1982, the second congress of the PKK was held in a Palestinian Camp at the border between Syria and Lebanon. During the congress a guerilla warfare strategy was formulated. It was decided there should be three phases of guerilla warfare: strategic defense, strategic balance and strategic offense. Small units of the PKK should return to Turkey and get engaged in armed confrontations until autumn of 1983. But the planning took longer than expected and armed confrontations began on the 15 August 1984. During the congress Çetin Güngör criticized the lack of democracy within the PKK. He had not enough support to be satisfied, left the PKK and kept criticizing the PKK in public meetings. In one of those meetings in Sweden in 1985 he was killed. Öcalan consolidated his resources at the training camps in Bekaa valley. PKK build up a new power base. This marked the beginning of the second stage of PKK's efforts to establish control of southeastern Turkey.\n\nIt was claimed that at Ain al-Hilweh near to the largest Palestinian refugee camp located on the outskirts of the port of Sidon in Lebanon, the organization developed links with paramilitary groups among other ethnic groups which has harbored historic grievances against Turkey such as the ethnic Armenian ASALA. The links extended to groups which shared its left-wing nationalist ideology such as the Palestine Liberation Organisation, ETA, and, to a lesser degree, the Provisional Irish Republican Army. During this period, through the large Kurdish immigration in Germany, it has also formed close contacts with left-wing political groups in that country. The link with German left-wing political groups extended to supply of militants, such as Eva Juhnke.\n\nOn the December 15, 1984 the organization and other left-oriented groups including Workers Party of Turkey, Communist Labour Party of Turkey, Communist Party of Turkey, Socialist Party of Turkish Kurdistan and Socialist Workers Party of Turkey signed a protocol to work together.\n\n1984 marked the beginning of sustained paramilitary action by the PKK, attacking government mainly personnel and infrastructure associated with Southeastern Anatolia Project, as well as some civilian (collaborators) targets. Initially the PKK insurgence was branded as just another Kurdish revolt, the 29th revolt, by the Turkish government, and it was declared, it would be crushed just as the ones before as well. \n\nWith the Kurdish National Liberation Front (ERNK), which was formed in 1985, gave the insurgence another organizational structure. Eventually, military operations were handed over from the ERNK to the Kurdistan Popular Liberation Army (ARGK). The ERNK remained, but largely as a front for the ARGK.\n\nIn 1988, Tehran gave permission to open PKK camps close to Iran's border.\n\nIn 1989, the organization concluded an alliance with a number of extreme left wing guerrilla groups to exchange ability and methods to strike in big cities.\n\nSince 1982, the Iran-Iraq war gave Kurdish organizations in Northern Iraq a free hand because Iraq needed and moved its troops to the front in the South. The organization used this to develop cross border attacks from Iraq. The relations between the Marxist PKK and Barzani's conservative KDP were never cordial, but the latter nevertheless allowed organization to operate from the KDP controlled areas and in the south of the Iraqi-Turkish border. This gave the PKK two routes of penetration into Turkey, directly from Syria and over Iraq From 1986 -1987, Turkey engaged with Hot pursuit towards the organization members through cross border into northern Iraq. The cross border incidents were archived with the approval of the then-Iraqi government under president Saddam Hussein.\n\nThe organization reached an its highest operational activity during the Gulf War (August 1990 – February 1991). Turkey opened its Iraqi border to the Iraqi refugees. This allowed Kurdish and Iraqi refugees, to enter Turkey. The Gulf War also extensively undermined Baghdad's control over the Kurds in Iraq and Barzani and Talabani have controlled the area. A power vacuum was created north of 36th Parallel which enabled the PKK to establish bases and training camps in northern Iraq.\n\nIn 1992, Turkey decided to change the operational functionality of their hot pursuits to target the organization's camps, launching major operations towards the end of the year. All attempts failed and led to significant casualties on Turkish side.\n\nDuring this period, organization developed branches in non exclusively Greece, Cyprus, Syria, Russia. It was effectively working in a wide range of countries and able to effect the local policies. The organization became a case of transnational ethnic nationalism. Well-publicized hunger strikes and protest marches in Germany were examples of actions by the trans-nationalized movement. Germany was faced with the challenge of developing policies dealing with their Kurdish residents as well as towards Turkey. In 1993, the organization was banned in Germany.\n\nTurkey recognized it was impossible to eliminate the organization as a fighting force as long as it could retreat to Syria, Iraq and Iran. The organization's revenues have been estimated by various countries at US$200–500 million annually during the 1990s. Turkish authorities claimed that after Kurdish activist and state support, an important source of income became drug trafficking as substantial amounts of heroin formerly transiting Iran were now re-routed through Iraq after the war in Iraq (Gulf War). The PKK had denied all accusations that their members had been involved in drug trafficking. Turkish authorities also claimed that the organization had been working on developing methods of drug-trafficking and according to Interpol's records, 298 people somehow connected with the organization were arrested for drug trafficking between 1984 and 1993. According to Aliza Marcus, an expert who has analyzed the PKK since the 80's, it doesn't seem that the PKK, as an organization, directly produced or traded in narcotics.\n\nWith the increase of Turkey's activities to cope with the PKK, 10 percent of income was spent on fighting against the PKK. One year the military spent $8,000,000,000 in operational expenses, and PKK's activity was not curbed. The PKK succeeded to get support from Kurdish activists.\n\nLater in 1993, the PKK supporters allegedly launched coordinated attacks involving firebombs and vandalism on Turkish diplomatic and commercial offices in six West European, 3 Middle-East and 2 African countries.\n\nOn March 19, 1993, PKK put an end to the long-standing PKK vendetta against the other Kurdish parties through an agreement with the Kurdistan Socialist Party. In a turning point in the organizations structure, during 1995 Turkish authorities claimed that 30% of the captured or killed PKK members were Syrian nationals of Armenian origin or other Syrians.\n\nThe Gulf War changed the political situation. Turkey passively supported the war. The border with Iraq became the worst border. There was an authority that Turkey could communicate with in Syria and Iran, but the Gulf War left North Iraq with what Turkey has called a \"vacuum of control\". Also, Iraq assisted the organization as a retaliation for the passive support. The aid was meant to serve as a retaliation against Turkey due to its anti-Iraq policy. Later Operation Provide Comfort used Incirlik air base in Turkey to create an autonomous area for Iraq Kurds.\n\nDuring 1988 after the Halabja poison gas attack 36,000 Kurdish refugees were located in Diyarbakir. Iraq began to spread out its problems to Turkey. After the Gulf War of 1991, the problem was not just PKK insurgency. It was a humanitarian problem that can turn into a regional war. Turkey didn't want to open border for Kurdish refugees.\n\nThe \"vacuum of power in North Iraq\" refers to a security concept related to creation of a \"safe haven\" in North Iraq. Its first use was attributed to Turgut Özal. The goal has been stated as stabilization of economical, social, and cultural the conditions of Kurds under \"Unified Iraq.\" The \"Unified Iraq\" has been the dominant position for Turkish foreign policy. Turkey was strictly against any kind of independent Kurdish state in Iraq. This sentiments was apparent during the \"March 1\" incident, in which Kurdish origin representatives prevented Turkey's participation to 2003 invasion of Iraq. Turkey with its Kurdish population is sensitive to the short term and long-term problems of Iraqi Kurds.\n\nOn May 1995 Suleyman Demirel proposed moving the border from the heights to stop the insurgency:\n\nThis proposal was rejected by Iraq and consequently Iran and Arab countries. Turkey decided to mark the Iraq-Turkey border and eliminate the free movement of the organization in this region. There were ten southeastern provinces located in the mountainous border. On the Turkish side of the border 3000 residential units which had 378,335 villagers were forcefully displaced. Thermal cameras were located on the border. Despite this new project, the government even failed to destroy PKK camps inside of Turkey and also stop their members entering Turkey.\n\nOn June 3, 1997 the Commission on Internal Migration was established to study the controversial loss of residential units. A numerous of sources accused Turkey of war crimes, forced displacement and human right violations.\n\nWhile marking the Turkey-Iraq border, Turkey was seeking a way to eliminate the \"vacuum of power\" created within the north Iraq no-fly zone.\n\nIn April 1991, Iraqi no-fly zones created during the Gulf War by the enforcing powers related to United Nations Security Council Resolution 688 as authorising the operations, which Boutros Boutros-Ghali called the no-fly zones \"illegal\" in a later interview with John Pilger. Turkey supported US-led coalition that formed Iraqi no-fly zones. No-fly zones generated a control vacuum which later used by PKK. Iran did not want to have the no-fly zone that can be easily influenced by US-led coalition.\n\nTurkish sources claimed that Iran's response to these activities was also shaped by supporting PKK. In order to adapt to the end of the Soviet System (1991) and gain Iran's support the organization amended or abandoned its communist secular ideology to better accommodate and accept Islamic beliefs. Beginning in 1993, PKK members allegedly launched attacks from Iranian soil. Heat-seeking SA-7 missiles were given by Iran to prevent Turkish operations in Iraq. Organization used SA-7 missiles effectively against Turkey during Turkey's involvement in Iraqi Kurdish Civil War. During the 1990s, Greece and Iran were accused of providing PKK with supplies in the form of weapons and funds. Both Greece and Iran denied accusations.\n\nOn October 4, 1992, the Kurdish government in Erbil announced that \"PKK should either withdraw from the border bases or be expelled.\" On March 17, 1993, Öcalan from Lebanon announced a cease-fire from March 20 to April 15 to Jalal Talabani. He declared that the PKK did not intend \"to separate immediately from Turkey.\" The organization moved its military camps to Northern Iraq. Syria had only ideological training, intelligence, health and recreation installations.\n\nInternational discussions were going on about a new state in North Iraq, based on the concept of Iraq Federation. UN channelled money to Iraq Federation. With inclusion of the solution for elimination of the PKK's ability to use North Iraq, Turkey joined the US-led coalition to bring truce among the Iraqi Kurds. Two sets of negotiations were tried. US-brokered Drogheda talks on August 9–11, 1995 appeared to be leading to a settlement of the KDP-PUK fight as well as to security guarantees in the form of the KDP controlling the Turkish border.\n\nTurkey feared that the KDP-PUK conflict would create a power vacuum in northern Iraq that would facilitate the organization. Turkey performed Operation Steel () between March 20 and May 4, 1995 before the official negotiations began. Some 35,000 Turkish troops moved into northern Iraq attempting to clean out PKK strongholds during the period March 20 – May 2, 1995. The attempt failed. This activity was aimed at giving the conditions of Drogheda talks a chance by eliminating the PKK's infrastructure from the region. Operation Steel gave the chance of Iraqi Kurds building their own control system, but only if they prevent the PKK extending its infrastructure. Drogheda negotiations were killed because of the regional effects on Syria and Iran. To derail this unification, just after the Drogheda Talks II September 12, 1995, PKK launched attacks (September 25, 1995) against the KDP. PKK was saying it can not be ignored.\n\nDuring 1995 Öcalan declared his intention to form a \"National United Front.\" National United Front summarized its political objective as a \"total national democratic liberation war against the escalating total warfare.\" By establishing some type of government-in-exile or Kurdish federation, PKK was responding to a coalition which was trying to unite Iraqi Kurds.\n\nA second set of failed negotiations among Kurdish groups in Iraq were performed during October 1996 which was called Ankara Peace Process. It was believed that Turkey tried to provide support for Kurdish groups if they join Turkey in war against the PKK.\n\nOn May 27, 1996 PKK ordered a hunger strike for its members and supporters in the jails. In July, 314 prisoners in 43 prisons in 38 provinces were on fasting to the death and over 2,070 were on hunger strike. Beginning with 1996 organization abandoned its previous strategy of attacking Kurds whom they claimed to be government puppets. It focused on military targets. At the end of 1996, the PKK leader Öcalan signed a cooperation protocol with the Revolutionary People's Liberation Party-Front (DHKP-C) which later failed.\n\nOn December, 1998, Öcalan allegedly told the Kurdish satellite television channel Med-TV that his own militants are \"no better than murderers\".\n\nThe Iraqi Kurdish Civil War took place between rival Kurdish factions in the mid-1990s. Over the course of the conflict, the various factions drew Kurdish factions from Iran and Turkey, as well as Iranian, Iraqi, American forces into the fighting. On friendly terms with the PUK, the PKK began attacking KDP Peshmergas and members of the KDP. The PKK was moved to Qandil mountains from Bekaa Valley after the civil war ended.\n\nSome of the heaviest fighting of the entire KDP-PUK civil war ensued starting October 13, 1997. Hundreds were killed and thousands displaced. PUK used six GRAD missiles in Suleymaniye. There were no negotiations to bring a truce. Same missiles were used against military targets in Turkey. From Turkey's perspective the KDP was trying to push PKK out of North Iraq and the KUP was getting support from the PKK which was supported by Syria and Iran. Turkey intervened on the side of the KDP and saw it as an opportunity to attack the PKK. Turkey also warned Talabani, the leader of PUK, not to cooperate with the PKK.\n\nOn May 12, 1997, Turkish forces launched Operation Hammer in May, in an attempt to root out the PKK from northern Iraq. The operation inflicted heavy casualties, however the organization continued to operate in northern Iraq. The Operation Hammer cost $300 million. Turkish sources claimed that nearly 3000 PKK militants were killed, with a further 132 being captured. This contrasted with 113 fatalities and 325 injured among the Turkish forces. The operation failed and PKK continued to operate from northern Iraq.\n\nOn September 25, 1997, Turkish forces engaged with Operation Dawn (1997) in northern Iraq. This time they were allied with the KDP and attacked PUK and PKK positions in an attempt to force a cease-fire between the factions and destroy PKK camps. The operation resulted in heavy PKK and Turkish casualties, but Turkey once again failed to root out the PKK from northern Iraq. However, a cease-fire was negotiated between the PUK and KDP.\n\nDespite the cease-fire, renewed small fighting broke out along the armistice line between the KDP and PUK in October and November. At the same time, Iranian and Iraqi soldiers were also clashing in border areas. In this round of fighting, 1,200 combatants were killed on both sides and 10,000 civilians fled their homes. A lasting cease-fire was finally established on November 24. Saddam's response to Turkey's help in negotiations between Iraq Kurds was shaped by increasingly assisting the organization.\n\nAccording to the Turkish authorities, during the year of 1997, the 3,302 PKK operatives, of whom 484 were captured, 415 surrendered, and 303 arrested, in various operations including those in northern Iraq. During the same period, security forces lost 192 soldiers and 95 others were wounded; in addition, 49 village guards were killed and 14 wounded. Turkish military claimed it gained enough operational structure in the region to monitor organizational movements, but not control or stop them. At the same time, Turkish army involved in serious war crimes and human rights violations. Kurdish civilians were routinely executed and the PKK was blamed for their death.\n\nIn October 1997, Eva Juhnke a German guerrilla fighter from the armed wing of organization captured during a military operation by KDP forces in North Iraq. KDP gave this operative to Turkey.\n\nThe PKK began using all kind of bomb attacks, including suicide bombings in the 90's. PKK targets were carefully selected. According to Turkish authorities, large majority of bombers were selected by the organization's leadership. Turkish sources also claimed that \"the ones who rejected were killed or turned over to the Turkish police\". In eleven out of a total of fifteen attacks were performed by women. This showed that the PKK had very dynamic structure and was able to carry out massive attacks in very short times.\n\nBegan on June 30, 1995 and phased out on July 5, 1999, the alleged campaign of suicide attacks included fourteen incidents. Most of the attacks clustered between 1998–199, non exclusive list is: November 17, 1998, December 1, 1998, December 24, 1998, April 9, 1999 and June 7, 1999. All targets were military and police bases. Despite a numerous of claims, the PKK had only taken responsibility for a few suicide bombings.\n\nThe undeclared war was the response of Turkey to Syria for its continued assistance to PKK. In its messages about the undeclared war, Turkey claimed that it is ready to perform any necessary activity to destroy the PKK's operational bases. It ended with the capture of Öcalan and the repositioning of Turkey in relation to the Arab League by taking a new position facing Syria and Iran.\n\nOne of the first contacts with Syria about the PKK was in 1987. Turgut Özal personally conducted the negotiations. At the end, there was a protocol which however showed the differences between the countries. Syria did not even admit Öcalan was in Syria.\n\nAfter the Gulf War, in April 1992, a security agreement was reached between the two states. Both countries agreed on preventing crossing, organization, training or distributing propaganda of outlawed organizations in respective countries. If an agent is captured, he will be exchanged. Marking the border between Turkey and Syria was considered. Every three months security officials were to meet and exchange information on both sides. From international policy perspective, this was the first time Syria accepted to consider the PKK as a terrorist organization. The public reaction came on November 19–20, 1993, when the Syrian state minister stated that \"Öcalan and other terrorists would not be allowed\". But besides these exchanges, Syria did not significantly change its attitude toward PKK.\n\nThe next development was on August 23, 1994, when Syria officially linked the water issue to the PKK in the summit between Turkey, Syria and Iran. During this summit another interesting development was the Hatay issue, which was brought to table. While the summit was going at Damascus, the PKK was building its structure in Hatay; in July 1995, it performed its first activity there, later using this province as a base to extend its activities to Adana and Mersin; the PKK was extending to the East Mediterranean. This region was one of the centers of immigration from the southeast, and also is a temporary summer work area for the southeast region. For Turkey the region was sensitive, not because of the Kurds, but because of the Arab population. Beginning late 1995, Syrian backing of PKK operations at Hatay was perceived by Turkish governments as an active hostile threat from Syria more than the PKK. The PKK's Hatay operations ended with the undeclared war with Syria.\n\nOn September 30, 1995 Damascus opened contacts with high ranking German CDU MP Heinrich Lummer and intelligence officials in Damascus. The CDU demanded PKK end all its activities in Germany. The PKK demanded that it should be recognized as a legitimate entity and not as a terrorist organization. The PKK had been banned in Germany in 1993. If the PKK's demand had passed, it would be a big step for Damascus, not just for the water issues and Hatay demands, but also because a Western country was negotiating with a banned organization. It would be a big blow to Turkey as the inability to stop terrorism in the country could end with balkanization of the region.\n\nAfter the Turkish government's decision on the undeclared war with Syria, the military received orders to develop military operational plans, including the worst scenario (regional war: Turkey against Syria, Iran and maybe Greece (1995 military agreement on airbases) and Russia). To counteract a regional war, military agreements with Israel were signed on February 24 and August 26, 1996. These agreements followed with intelligence cooperation in February 1997. Two diplomatic notes were issued during 1996. The first note was for a truck originating in Iran and carrying military equipment to the PKK in Syria. The second one was regarding Syria being a state sponsor of the PKK. Turkey delinked the two issues of water and the PKK. On December 30, 1996, Turkish National Intelligence Agency (MIT) smuggled Mustafa Duyur out of Syria. Duyur was a DHKP-C agent who was involved with the Özdemir Sabancı murder. Turkey froze relations as Damascus was harboring PKK and DHKP-C.\n\nÖcalan left Syria.\n\nAfter Syria deported PKK guerrilla leader Öcalan, he passed through various European countries which caused diplomatic crises with Turkey, who sought his extradition on \"terrorism\" charges, including involvement in murdering Turkish soldiers, police and also civilians.\n\nHis first short stop was at a Greek airport. This was supposed to be a stop on the way to Stockholm. Instead of Stockholm he was transferred to Russia. Russia did not grant him sanctuary. On November 14, 1999, Öcalan arrived in Rome, Italy accompanied by Ramon Mantovani, a member of the Communist Refoundation Party, from Moscow. His arrival was a surprise to the Italian government, which had not been notified, and an international crisis began as Turkey requested Öcalan's extradition.\n\nThere were mass rallies in Rome by Kurds, and a wave of sympathy for a people that many did not know of. The Italian government of Massimo D'Alema was not yet able to take a clear stance on whether to satisfy the extradition request. Italian government tried to negotiate a deal with other EU states and try to deal with Interpol's arrest demand. Finally, Öcalan was allowed to leave the country, without revealing his destination, thereby releasing the Italian government from an embarrassing situation. He was apparently sent to Saint Petersburg, Russia, then Athens, Greece. The Greek government moved him to Korfu for a while, then to the Greek Embassy in Kenya.\n\nOn February 15, 1999, while being transferred from the Greek embassy to Nairobi international airport, Öcalan was captured in an operation by the Turkish National Intelligence Agency (MIT) with the support of CIA. American officials admitted that US intelligence and diplomatic efforts aided in Öcalan's eventual capture. He was then flown back to Turkey for trial. His capture led thousands of protesting Kurds to seize Greek embassies around the world.\n\nOn August 1999, Öcalan from the jail announced his second peace initiative, ordering members to refrain from armed conflict and requesting dialogue with the government of Turkey on all issues. However, in no time, multiple riots broke out throughout the world near Turkish diplomatic facilities such as Greek embassy in London between Turks and Kurds. A PKK/KADEK spokesman stated that its armed wing, The People's Defense Force, would not disband or surrender its weapons, to maintain its capability of self-defense. PKK/KADEK avowing to not lay down its arms underscores that the organization maintains its capability to carry out operations. The PKK wasn't anymore one-leader organizations, it had become a significant symbol of Kurdish cause.\n\nTurkey decided that the termination of PKK could only be achieved by termination of their operational grounds. Turkey engaged with strong foreign relations campaign to get international support. On April 2, 2004, The Council of the European Union (the 15 EU governments) decided to update the European Union list of terrorist organisations to include Kurdistan Workers' Party. This applied to all and any members joining the EU. Turkey also reached an agreement with Tehran in 2002 in which Turkey recognized the Iranian rebel group Mujahideen-e-Khalq as a terrorist organisation in exchange for Iran doing the same for the PKK. However, as of 2008, Russia did not list the organization as a terrorist group despite a numerous of attempts by Turkey.\n\nTurkey argued that the Netherlands and Belgium supported the organization by allowing training camps to function in their territories. On November 22, 1998, Hanover's police reported that three children had been among dozens of trained by the PKK in the Netherlands and Belgium. The Dutch police raided the 'PKK paramilitary camp/office' in the Dutch town of Liempde and arrested 29 people in November 2004.\n\nDespite all efforts, Turkey wasn't even able to reduce PKK activities.\n\nFrom April 2, 2002 to November 11, 2003, the same day as the European Union updated its list of terrorists, the organization declared that it terminated \"Kurdistan Workers Party\" and with the same organisational structure formed the \"\" (KADEK). The name change to KADEK was claimed as a move towards peaceful politics and co-operation with a wider range of ideologies, but it was pointed that this change was aimed to protect itself from the legal implications of being listed as a terrorist organization. Turkey claimed at the time that KADEK and PKK were identical. Later nations updated their status towards KADEK to be identical to their status towards PKK. From November 11, 2003 to April 4, 2005, the KADEK changed its name and operated under the banner of KGK (KONGRA-GEL). In 2004, the armed wing of PKK, HPG (People's Forces of Defence) announced an end to the unilateral truce they had sustained since the time of Öcalan's capture.\n\nAfter 4 years of ceasefire, the PKK started continued the armed conflict. The PKK started its activities by bombing the Turkish military bases and police departments in southeastern Turkey.\n\nLater in 2004, from request of Turkey, US Treasury amended its regulations to include all the aliases and offshoots of the PKK in its sanctions list maintained by OFAC (Office of Foreign Assets Control). The list aims at blocking terrorist property. The organisations currently listed under PKK aliases include KADEK (Congress for Freedom and Democracy in Kurdistan), KONGRA-GEL, HSK, KHK and PKK.\n\nTurkish authorities claimed that the organization's main sources of financing shifted from state sources to mostly the Kurds in Europe and revenue derived from drug trafficking. Scholars critical of the PKK in 2007 cited one British intelligence estimate that claims the PKK controls around 40 per cent of the total amount of heroin entering Europe from the east. However, most experts disagreed with rumors that the PKK had involved in drug trafficking. The Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution, Germany's domestic security agency, revealed in its annual report that despite claims of Turkish authorities and US designation, there is no single evidence that the PKK has involved in drug trafficking.\n\nIt is known that the group's main source is its supporters in Turkey, Iraq, Iran and Russia. Russia hasn't listed the PKK as a terrorist organization, thus allowing it operate in Russian soil.\n\nOn March 11, 2007 statement by Deputy Chief of General Staff General Ergin Saygun stated that the organization gathers some US$615–770 million annually from its supporters, whereas a 2007 NATO Terrorist Threat Intelligence Unit report puts the number at a more modest US$50–100 million annually.\n\nThe organization claimed that it has plans to move towards peaceful politics and co-operation with a wider range of ideologies if Turkey accepts Kurdish rights.\n\nOn 17 July 2005, a prominent member of the PKK, Hasan Özen who left the organization, was murdered in Austria. In Diyarbakir, on 6 July 2005, unknowns killed Hikmet Fidan, the former vice-president of the People's Democratic Party (HADEP), who formed an alternative organization to the PKK called PWD with Osman Ocalan. The PKK was accused, but it denied its involvement.\n\nIn 2007 the PKK included a 40% quota for women as commanders. \n\nDuring the 2007 Turkish general election, Turkish authorities claimed that a death threat was mailed by organization to CHP, MHP, DYP and AKP to withdraw their Van and Hakkâri candidates allowing a DTP dominance.\n\nThe organization denied that it had ever sent such a threat.\n\nTurkey had been condemned by the ECHR for arresting, killing and torturing Kurdish politicians.\n\nAccording to Turkish claims, during the period 2003–2005 there were 246 security personnel casualties including 21 police and 22 village guards. The total number of wounded and disabled was 147. The total armed militants captured was 1325, of which 359 were dead, 377 live, and 589 through an amnesty granted through this period, of which 116 were \"exchange of criminals\" with Iran, Iraq, Syria, Greece, Azerbaijan and Ukraine. The TBMM expected to have an increase in the number of militants captured through exchange of criminals, as part of the global fight on Terror. The period also saw an increase in exchange of criminal intelligence.\n\nThe PKK has seen Turkish claims about their casualties as a \"joke\" and accused the government of hiding its casualties. In 2016, the PKK had captured more than 26 Turkish soldiers.\n\nDespite all efforts, the Turkish government has failed to bring down the organization. The PKK has been able to operate in many countries where it hasn't been banned, such as Russia, China, India and Egypt.\n"}
{"id": "2314425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314425", "title": "Center for Short-Lived Phenomena", "text": "Center for Short-Lived Phenomena\n\nThe Center for Short-Lived Phenomena (CSLP) was an office at the Smithsonian Institution from 1968 to 1975 designed to assist Smithsonian scientists in studying unusual short-lived natural phenomena such as meteorite impacts, volcanic events, earthquakes, and unusual ecological events such as plagues, extinctions, fish rains, and the effects of oil spill events.\n\nCSLP published a series of scientific reports on unusual phenomena, as well as a 1972 paperback collection of unusual phenomena entitled \"Strange, Sudden, and Unexpected: True stories from the files of the Smithsonian Institution's Center for Short-lived Phenomena\" (), which covered topics including:\n\n\nCSLP restructured in 1975, with some activities moved to other portions of the Smithsonian to become the Scientific Event Alert Network, and eventually the Global Volcanism Program. Some of its activities and data were subsequently maintained and operated as an independent non-profit entity under the Center for Short-Lived Phenomena name. CSLP was hired by Cahners Publishing Co. (since acquired by Reed-Elsevier) in 1977 to provide the pilot editorial content for the Oil Spill Intelligence Report newsletter. That publication was the first for Cahners' Newsletter Center business unit, later spun off as Cutter Information Corp (now Cutter Consortium). CSLP continued under contract to Cahners and then Cutter for such content for several years.\n"}
{"id": "2314430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314430", "title": "Stephen Borough", "text": "Stephen Borough\n\nSteven Borough (September 25, 1525 – July 12, 1584) was an English navigator and an early Arctic explorer. He was master of the first English ship to reach the White Sea in 1553 and open trade with Russia on behalf of the Muscovy Company. He became an expert on piloting in Arctic waters and was one of the earliest English practitioners of the new scientific methods of navigation. He was widely sought out for his knowledge by English and Spanish mariners.\n\nBorough was born on September 25, 1525 at Northam, Devon, the son of Walter and Mary (Dough) Borough. After some basic education at the local parish school, he was apprenticed to his uncle, John Borough, an accomplished mariner who sailed regularly to Sicily, Crete, and the Levant. In addition to learning navigational and pilotage skills from his uncle, Borough gained some ability with Spanish and Portuguese languages.\nWith some help from his uncle's connections in London, Borough was selected to take part in an expedition that was chartered by the Company of Merchant Adventurers to New Lands to look for a north-eastern passage to Cathay. Three vessels left London in 1553 under the leadership of Sir Hugh Willoughby. Borough served as master of the \"Edward Bonaventure\", on which Richard Chancellor sailed as the expedition's chief pilot and second-in-command. Separated by a storm from the other two ships of the expedition (the \"Bona Esperanza\" and the \"Bona Confidentia\"), the \"Edward\" proceeded alone to the White Sea where they dropped anchor at the mouth of the Dvina River near present-day Arkhangelsk. Chancellor traveled overland to Moscow where he negotiated a trade treaty with Ivan the Terrible while Borough and most of the crew spent the winter with their ship.\n\nOn a second expedition in 1556 Borough sailed beyond the White Sea in the \"Serchthrift\", a small vessel with a crew of 15. He discovered the Kara Strait between Novaya Zemlya and Vaygach Island but was unable to proceed further because ice blocked the passage. Borough returned to the White Sea and wintered at Kholmogory. During this expedition he also collected the earliest known documentation of Sami languages in 1557; the list of words was published by Richard Hakluyt.\n\nUpon his return to England in 1557, Borough learned that Chancellor had been killed in a shipwreck on the Scottish coast and he was promoted to chief navigator for the Muscovy Company. He made several more trips to Russia between 1560 and 1571.\n\nIn 1558 he visited the navigational school in Seville where he shared his knowledge of the Arctic in exchange for insights into the training of Spanish pilots. He also brought back to England a copy of Martín Cortés de Albacar's \"Breve Compendio\", a handbook on navigation. Borough had the book translated by Richard Eden and published as the \"Art of Navigation\" in 1561. As such it became the first English manual of navigation and was widely used for many years.\n\nIn 1563 he was appointed chief pilot and one of the four masters of the royal ships on the Medway in Kent. In 1574 he conferred with Martin Frobisher and Michael Lok about their expeditions in search of a north-west passage to Cathay.\n\nHe died on 12 July 1584, and was buried at Chatham.\n\nHis son, Christopher Borough, wrote a description of a trading expedition made in 1579-1581 from the White Sea to the Caspian Sea and back.\n\nHis younger brother, William Borough, born in 1536, also at Northam, accompanied Sir Francis Drake in his Cadiz expedition of 1587.\n\n"}
{"id": "2314457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314457", "title": "Alexander Cooper", "text": "Alexander Cooper\n\nAlexander Cooper (11 December 16091660) was an English Baroque miniature painter.\n\nCooper was born in London, the elder brother of the painter Samuel Cooper. He learned painting from Peter Oliver (painter) and was active in London from 1633–1642, whereupon he traveled to The Hague. He is registered there as a member of The Hague Guild of Saint Luke from 16441646.\nAfter a short stay in Amsterdam, he travelled to Sweden in 1646 to work as court painter for Queen regnant Christina of Sweden. According to Houbraken he was considered the best portrait miniaturist in watercolors of his time. He succeeded David Beck as official court painter when Beck returned to The Hague.\n\nHis Swedish documents declare that he was Jewish, and that his full name was Abraham Alexander Cooper. He had previously been residing in the United Provinces, but on reaching Sweden entered the service of Christina, and continued to be her miniature painter until 1654, when she resigned the crown. Two years later, Cooper was in Denmark, carrying out some commissions for Christian IV of Denmark but in 1657 was back again in Stockholm, where he died in the early part of 1660, aged fifty.\n\nHis works are of great rarity, and the chief are a series representing Frederick V, Elector Palatine and Elizabeth of Bohemia as well as their children. Including Charles I Louis, Elector Palatine, Elisabeth of Bohemia, Princess Palatine, Prince Rupert of the Rhine, Edward, Count Palatine of Simmern and Sophia of the Palatinate. By the late nineteenth century these portraits were in the possession of Wilhelm II of Germany. At the same time some very remarkable portraits were owned by Wilhelmina of the Netherlands, and others were in the possession of Gustav V of Sweden and various Swedish galleries.\n\nHe is probably the same painter as \"Ioannes Coepers\" of England \"well-known at the English court\" in Cornelis de Bie's book of painters called Het Gulden Cabinet.\n"}
{"id": "2314463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314463", "title": "Electric Apricot: Quest for Festeroo", "text": "Electric Apricot: Quest for Festeroo\n\nElectric Apricot: Quest For Festeroo is a mockumentary film by Primus lead-man Les Claypool, featuring himself as well as others using pseudonyms. The band Electric Apricot played occasional shows in 2004 and 2005, unannounced, in the California area for footage. The Electric Apricot also made an appearance at the SXSW music festival in Austin, TX in 2007. The movie has been screened at film festivals internationally, including the Bonnaroo Music Festival and The Raindance Festival in London.\n\nThe movie tells the story of a UCLA filmmaker making a music documentary. Claypool himself plays the role of drummer-singer Lapland \"Lapdog\" Miclovik of rising jam-band Electric Apricot, heading to the holy grail of festivals, Festeroo.\n\nBesides the leads, notable names in the cast include Bob Weir, Mike Gordon, Warren Haynes, Seth Green, Matt Stone, Wavy Gravy, Dian Bachar, Arj Barker, Gabby La La, Sirena Irwin and Sam Maccarone.\n\nThe album was released on March 18, 2008, while the DVD was released May 13, 2008.\n\n\nThe band all go by pseudonyms and at live shows they do not answer to their real names.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314466", "title": "Floyd I. Clarke", "text": "Floyd I. Clarke\n\nFloyd I. Clarke (born January 7, 1942) is a former acting director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) in the United States.\n\nClarke was born in Phoenix, Arizona. He attended George Washington University in Washington, D.C., where he obtained a Bachelor of Arts and later a law degree. He joined the FBI as a Special Agent in 1964, working in the Birmingham, Boston, Philadelphia, and Kansas City Divisions as well as at FBI Headquarters. He progressed from Special Agent to Supervisor, Assistant Special Agent in Charge, Special Agent in Charge, Assistant Director, Executive Assistant Director, Deputy Director, and finally Acting Director.\n\nBill Clinton, the forty-second President of the United States, was inaugurated on January 20, 1993, and \nresolved to replace then FBI director William S. Sessions. Sessions was dismissed on July 19 after refusing to resign, and Louis Freeh was nominated to the post at a Rose Garden ceremony the following day. Clarke was named acting director, and served from the 19th until September 1, 1993, when Freeh was sworn in.\n\nClarke then retired from the FBI. He joined MacAndrews & Forbes, a private firm specializing in acquisitions, where he is currently Vice President for Corporate Compliance.\n\n"}
{"id": "2314469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314469", "title": "Nine Diaries", "text": "Nine Diaries\n\nJih-chi chiu-chung (Nine Diaries) was the most popular book published by Chinese writer Yu Dafu. Written in 1927, it detailed the events of his affair with the leftist writer Wang Ying-hsia and broke all previous Chinese sales records.\n\n\"Encyclopædia Britannica\" 2005 Ultimate Reference Suite DVD, article \"Yü Ta-fu\"\n"}
{"id": "2314473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314473", "title": "Take It How You Want It", "text": "Take It How You Want It\n\nTake It How You Want It is the debut EP of Self Against City. A print run of 400 advance copies was released by 720 Records at one of the band's concerts at The Boardwalk in Orangevale, California on October 28, 2004. The actual release, issued on April 5, 2005 by Rushmore Records, featured an extra song (\"Let You Go\") and an enhanced CD portion with video footage of an acoustic performance of \"Speechless\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314484", "title": "Brainfreeze (album)", "text": "Brainfreeze (album)\n\nBrainfreeze is a 1999 live mix album by DJ Shadow and Cut Chemist. The two tracks of the album are uninterrupted recordings from a live performance where they sampled hit funk, soul, rock and jazz singles from 45 rpm vinyl records. This type of recording was pioneered by the duo Double Dee and Steinski through their \"Lessons\" (the difference being that the \"Lessons\" cuts were meticulously edited together from snippets of audio tape, rather than performed live using turntables).\n\n\"Brainfreeze\" was recorded by DJ Shadow and Cut Chemist as a practice session for a show in February 1999 at the Future Primitive Soundsession in San Francisco, mixing funk and soul 45's. Initially 1000 copies were made and sold at the shows, and a further 1000 copies were made and distributed to local records stores in California and sold out very quickly. A cease-and-desist letter from 7-Eleven convenience stores—the whole artwork and styling was based on their logos and uniforms—meant that they stopped and moved on. The album was then bootlegged and it can now be found in popular record shops.\n\nDJ Shadow and Cut Chemist toured their Brainfreeze performance initially as part of Shadow's International Goodwill Tour in 1999, on the 18th of January 2000 they reunited to perform a farewell to the Brainfreeze shows at the El Rey Theatre in Los Angeles. This final show was later released on VHS as \"Freeze\", and includes footage of rehearsals as well.\n\nThis set was reenacted at the Mayan night club in Los Angeles on May 25, 2006, as part of a benefit concert for DJ Shadow's art director, Keith Tamashiro, in order to offset costs related to a brain aneurysm he suffered early in 2006.\n\n\"Brainfreeze\" was followed up by \"Product Placement\", an album of similar content and style.\n\nWhile there was no tracklisting given except for some record shots in the inner sleeves, Michael \"DOP\" Lane put together listing of the tracks and this has been adapted in reviews and website listings. While this has been repeatedly bootlegged, the main difference between the original pressing and the bootlegs are the quality of the sleeves and the CD (colors look washed out and not as sharp on the bootleg). The original CD on the inner ring has \"©1999 Sixty7 Recordings\" written in red on a clear background. The bootleg does not have a clear bit. On the back of the CD is \"Disc Producers inc 2886/Brainfreeze ADC/CA\". Some bootlegs have \"Slurp CD 001\" and a bar code written on them.\n\nThe 45s used in the \"Brainfreeze\" mix are highly sought after by vinyl collectors, and the term \"Brainfreeze\" in online auctions often results in increased auction prices for these records. The songs have been collected on compilations called \"Slurped\", and \"Brainfreeze Breaks\", which feature the songs in unmixed form.\n\nStanton Swihart of AllMusic stated that \"\"Brainfreeze\" transforms the mix tape into a genuine piece of musical art, a sampladelic, turntablist collage that may be the apotheosis of – or at least a turning point for – the genre.\" Describing the record as \"an amazing display of spontaneous music-making\", he concluded that \"it is a dizzyingly brilliant, virtuoso work of two exceedingly fecund imaginations.\" In \"Spin\" Will Hermes called \"Brainfreeze\" \"inspired garage mechanics\" and that the pair \"get extra-busy just to showcase their micromanagement skills\". Reviewing the duo's 2001 follow-up album \"Product Placement\", Rob Mitchum of \"Pitchfork\" described \"Brainfreeze\" as \"much admired\" and said that DJ Shadow and Cut Chemist had \"sculpted a mixtape symphony that withstood repeated listens\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314486", "title": "David Crane", "text": "David Crane\n\nDavid Crane may refer to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314489", "title": "Little Colonsay", "text": "Little Colonsay\n\nLittle Colonsay () is an uninhabited island west of the island of the Isle of Mull in Scotland. The geology of the island is columnar basalt, similar to that of neighbouring Staffa. It is part of the Loch Na Keal National Scenic Area, one of 40 in Scotland.\n\nIn 1841 the population was 16 individuals in two households, but by 1881 no population was recorded, the island having been cleared in 1846 by F.W. Clark, the notorious owner of Gometra and Ulva. The censuses of 1891 and 1931 recorded two inhabitants. In the early 20th century the island was farmed by John MacColum, known as \"Johnny Colonsay\", but he and his family were forced out by a plague of rats.\n\nThe island is owned by the family of Viscount Blakenham but has not been permanently inhabited since the 1940s. The 2nd Viscount's daughter, Cressida Cowell, the author of children's books including \"How to Train Your Dragon\", spent childhood summers on the island and cites the Inner Hebrides as an inspiration for her books, suggesting they are \"one of the most beautiful places on Earth\" and \"the kind of place where you expect to see dragons overhead\".\n"}
{"id": "2314516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314516", "title": "Hidden &amp; Dangerous", "text": "Hidden &amp; Dangerous\n\nHidden & Dangerous is a 1999 World War II video game developed by Illusion Softworks and published by Take-Two Interactive and TalonSoft for Windows, Dreamcast, and PlayStation. The PlayStation port of the game was developed by Tarantula Studios. It is regarded as one of the pioneering tactical first person shooters. A sequel, \"Hidden & Dangerous 2\", was released in 2003.\n\nThe player controls a four-man British Special Air Service (SAS) team executing a number of important missions during World War II. The game features soldier selection prior to each mission. A comprehensive load-out sequence is also available where players have access to a variety of weapons and equipment. Mission briefings outline objectives, intelligence on enemy strengths and recommended plans of advance. During missions, players can command directly by toggling through the soldiers in their squad, voice commands or a tactical map which allows for real time control or planned maneuvers once the map is exited. Missions include, sabotage, search and destroy, POW rescue and resistance aid. The game features missions in Italy, Yugoslavia, Germany, Norway, the North Sea and Czechoslovakia. Despite certain historical liberties taken with actual SAS missions and time-lines, the game retains a degree of historical accuracy and intense atmosphere, including realistic wounding as squad members can be heavily wounded or killed by even brief enemy contact.\n\n\"Hidden & Dangerous\" was a commercial success, with 350,000 units sold globally by May 2000. Sales had surpassed one million copies by 2007. It was particularly popular in the United Kingdom. According to \"PC Gamer US\", most of the game's success derived from European markets. A writer for the magazine reported, \"The game wasn't so fortunate in the States, where it received warm reviews but endured poor sales — partly because of intense competition from \"Rainbow Six\", a lack of multiplayer options, and relatively little marketing exposure.\"\n\nGarrett Kenyon reviewed the Dreamcast version of the game for \"Next Generation\", rating it four stars out of five, and stated that \"While the minor bugs and graphic shortcomings keep this game from being a classic, TalonSoft has done an excellent job presenting a solid game with enough missions, options, and surprises to keep you coming back for more.\"\n\nThe PC and Dreamcast versions received \"average\" reviews according to the review aggregation website Metacritic.\n\nAn expansion was released in 1999, titled \"Hidden & Dangerous: Fight for Freedom\" in the UK and \"Hidden & Dangerous: Devil's Bridge\" in the US in 2000. This added new soldiers, weapons and missions in new locations including Poland, the Ardennes and postwar Greece.\n\nA fully updated version of the game, \"Hidden & Dangerous Deluxe\", was released for free as a commercial promotion for the sequel \"Hidden & Dangerous 2\". It is still available as freeware.\n\n"}
{"id": "2314523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314523", "title": "Nimitz High School (Harris County, Texas)", "text": "Nimitz High School (Harris County, Texas)\n\nChester W. Nimitz Senior High School is a public secondary school made up of two campuses located in unincorporated Harris County, Texas, United States. The campuses have Houston addresses. The school is located directly across the street from Lone Star College–North Harris and west of Bush Intercontinental Airport The school serves portions of Houston, the Aldine Independent School District portion of Humble, and unincorporated areas of Harris County. Nimitz is one of five comprehensive high schools in Aldine ISD. The main campus serves grades 10 through 12, while Nimitz Ninth Grade Center serves grade 9.\n\nNimitz first opened its doors in the fall of 1978, relieving both Aldine and MacArthur High School. Located near the border of Houston, Spring, and Humble, it was and still is the only high school located in the far northeast region of the Aldine School District. The campus was relieved of its ninth graders with the opening of its freshmen campus in the fall of 1999. Nimitz gained 215 young victims resulting from Hurricane Katrina after the hurricane struck New Orleans, Louisiana, and nearby coastal areas in Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama in 2005, and is notable for causing strife between the two differing groups of students, especially soon after the hurricane.\n\nFor the 2018-2019 school year, the school received a B grade from the Texas Education Agency, with an overall score of 80 out of 100. The school received a C grade in two domains, Student Achievement (score of 76) and Closing the Gaps (score of 71), and a B grade in School Progress (score of 84). The school received one of the seven possible distinction designations for Post-secondary Readiness.\n\nThe ethnic distribution at Nimitz High School for the 2018-19 school year was:\n\n73.1% of students were Economically Disadvantaged, 9.6% were English Language Learners, and 10.4% received Special Education Services.\n\nWhile the school has a Houston address, it serves students in portions of unincorporated Harris County, Bordersville, the AISD portion of Humble (including communities such as Inverness Forest, Woodcreek, Memorial Hills, Kenswick, Foxwood, and Deerbrook Estates), and a small portion of East Aldine (areas north of Aldine Bender).\n\nNimitz serves a Houston Housing Authority (HHA) public housing complex, Mansions at Turkey Creek.\n\nDue to the tremendous growth in the areas serving AISD, the district opened Benjamin O. Davis High School in the Fall of 2012. Davis was built to help alleviate overcrowding at the district's four high schools. The school took in freshmen and sophomore students its first year, phasing in juniors and seniors in the following years. Communities in the Greenspoint area of the Nimitz attendance zone were directly affected by the school's opening.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314525", "title": "Bernard Gilpin", "text": "Bernard Gilpin\n\nBernard Gilpin (1517 – 4 March 1583), was an Oxford theologian and then an influential clergyman in the emerging Church of England spanning the reigns of Henry VIII, Edward VI, Jane, Mary and Elizabeth I. He was known as the 'Apostle of the North', for his work in the wilds of northern England.\n\nBernard Gilpin descended from a Westmorland family with a pedigree back to Richard de Gylpyn in about 1206. He was born at Kentmere Hall, the son of Edwin and Margaret (née Layton), and grew up in the Kentmere valley; the parish church of St Cuthbert is today little changed from mid seventeenth century drawings, and its churchyard contains a yew tree known to Gilpin, being certified over 1,000 years old. George Gilpin was his elder brother. Margaret's uncle was Cuthbert Tunstall, Bishop of London and then of Durham, and Executor of Henry VIII's Estate.\n\nHe entered The Queen's College, Oxford in 1533, graduating Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) in 1540, Master of Arts (M.A.) in 1542 and Bachelor of Divinity (B.D.) in 1549. He was elected fellow of Queen's and ordained in 1542; subsequently he was elected Student of Christ Church. He was a diligent student of the writings of Erasmus.\n\nHowever, at Oxford he first adhered to the conservative side, and defended the doctrines of the church against the victims of the Marian Persecutions, and in particular John Hooper, one of the first four Marian Martyrs.\n\nPeter Martyr, Pietro Martire Vermigli, a leading Italian Reformer, was appointed to the chair of Divinity of Oxford. In the course of his Lectures on 1st Corinthians he attacked the \"Romish doctrine\" of transubstantiation. In the subsequent debate opponents of Peter Martyr's view included Bernard Gilpin, along with Doctors Tresham, Chedsey and Morgan.\n\nIn November 1552 he was presented to the vicarage of Norton, in the diocese of Durham. Persons appointed to livings in Royal patronage at that time were required to preach before the King, that there might be an opportunity of ascertaining their orthodoxy. Accordingly, on the first Sunday after Epiphany 1553 Gilpin went to Greenwich to preach in the Royal presence. His sermon on sacrilege is extant and displays the high ideal he had formed of the clerical office.\n\nAs a result of his sermon at Greenwich Gilpin obtained a licence, through William Cecil, as a general preacher throughout the kingdom as long as the King lived. This was one of only twenty-two or twenty-three granted during the reign of Edward VI. His contemporary John Knox, later a Presbyterian, was another. He was also a clergyman in the Diocese of Durham, at Berwick-upon-Tweed and Newcastle, between 1549 and 1554.\n\nOn Mary's accession in 1553 he went abroad to pursue his theological investigations at Leuven, Antwerp and Paris; and from a letter dated 1554, we get a glimpse of the quiet student rejoicing in an \"excellent library belonging to a monastery of Minorites.\"\n\nReturning to England towards the close of Queen Mary's reign, he was invested in 1556 by his mother's uncle, Cuthbert Tunstall, bishop of Durham, with the archdeaconry of Durham, to which the rectory of Easington was annexed.\n\nThe freedom of his attacks on the vices, and especially the clerical vices, of his times excited hostility against him, and he was formally brought before the bishop on a charge consisting of thirteen articles. Tunstall, however, in 1557 not only dismissed the case, but presented the offender with the rich living of Houghton-le-Spring; and when the accusation was again brought forward, he again protected him.\n\nEnraged at this defeat, Gilpin's enemies laid their complaint before Edmund Bonner, bishop of London, who secured a royal warrant for his apprehension. Upon this Gilpin prepared for martyrdom; and, having ordered his house-steward to provide him with a long garment, that he might go the more comely to the stake, he set out for London. Fortunately, however, for him, he broke his leg on the journey, and his arrival was thus delayed till the news of Queen Mary's death freed him from further danger.\n\nHe at once returned to Houghton-le-Spring, and there he continued to labour.\n\nWhen the Roman Catholic bishop was deprived in 1560 he was offered the see of Carlisle; but he declined this honour. He also declined the provostship of Queen's College, Oxford, which was offered him in 1561.\n\nAt Houghton his course of life was a ceaseless round of benevolent activity. In June 1560 he entertained Cecil and Dr Nicholas Wotton on their way to Edinburgh. His hospitable manner of living was the admiration of all. His living was a comparatively rich one, his house was better than many bishops palaces, and his position was that of a clerical magnate. In his household he spent every fortnight forty bushels of corn, twenty bushels of malt and an ox, besides a proportional quantity of other kinds of provisions. Strangers and travellers found a ready reception; and even their horses were treated with so much care that it was humorously said that, if one were turned loose in any part of the country, it would immediately make its way to the rector of Houghton.\n\nEvery Sunday from Michaelmas till Easter was a public day with Gilpin. For the reception of his parishioners he had three tables well covered, one for gentlemen, the second for husbandmen, the third for day-laborers; and this piece of hospitality he never omitted, even when losses or scarcity made its continuance difficult.\n\nHe built and endowed a grammar-school at a cost of upwards of £500, educated and maintained a large number of poor children at his own charge, and provided the more promising pupils with means of studying at the universities. So many young people flocked to his school that there was not accommodation for them in Houghton, and he had to fit up part of his house as a boarding establishment. The school continues today in the form of Kepier School.\n\nGrieved at the ignorance and superstition which the remissness of the clergy permitted to flourish in the neighbouring parishes, he used every year to visit the most neglected parts of Northumberland, Yorkshire, Cheshire, Westmorland and Cumberland; and that his own flock might not suffer, he was at the expense of a constant assistant. Among his parishioners he was looked up to as a judge, and did great service in preventing lawsuits amongst them. If an industrious man suffered a loss, he delighted to make it good; if the harvest was bad, he was liberal in the remission of tithes.\n\nThe boldness which he could display at need is well illustrated by his action in regard to duelling. Finding one day a challenge-glove stuck up on the door of a church where he was to preach, he took it down with his own hand, and proceeded to the pulpit to inveigh against the unchristian custom. This is how Sir Walter Scott describes it in his preface letter to The Death of the Laird's Jock in August 1831. Bernard Gilpin, the apostle of the north, the first who undertook to preach the Protestant doctrines to the Border dalesmen, was surprised, on entering one of their churches, to see a gauntlet or mail-glove hanging above the altar. Upon enquiring the meaning of a symbol so indecorous being displayed in that sacred place, he was informed by the clerk that the glove was that of a famous swordsman, who hung it there as an emblem of a general challenge and gage of battle, to any who should dare to take the fatal token down. Reach it to me, said the reverend churchman. The clerk and sexton equally declined the perilous office, and the good Bernard Gilpin was obliged to remove the glove with his own hands, desiring those who were present to inform the champion that he, and no other, had possessed himself of the gage of defiance. But the champion was as much ashamed to face Bernard Gilpin as the officials of the church had been to displace his pledge of combat.\n\nHis theological position was not in accord with any of the religious parties of his age. William Ewart Gladstone thought that the catholicity of the Anglican Church was better exemplified in his career than in those of more prominent ecclesiastics. In a letter addressed to me in 1888, Mr. Gladstone, whom I had asked in what sense he understood the existence of a spiritual continuity between the ancient Catholic Church and the existing Church of England, replied, In the Elizabethan interval, and before Anglicanism had a recognised existence as a form of thought, I should look for the spiritual continuity in men like Bernard Gilpin, as, before the Reformation, mainly in men like Colet. Although this hardly involves continuity in the sense in which the question was asked, the conjunction of these two names strikes me as particularly happy : for, while both of them were Catholic priests by ordination, neither of them could he described as Roman in their sympathies; indeed, it would be truer to say of both that their tone of mind, as ecclesiastics and as educationists, was more what would now he reckoned as Anglican.\n\nAnd the name of Bernard Gilpin suggests the lines on which a true, popular history of the Reformation might be written. Born in 1517 and dying in 1583, ordained in the reign of Henry VIII, selected to preach before Edward VI, presented to an important benefice in the north of England in the reign of Mary, and holding it until his death, he might seem an obvious butt for satire on the laxity of conscience in those who conformed throughout the Reformation period. But a study of his life would tell a very different tale, and show a man of deep Christian convictions and unimpeachable honesty, deservedly held in honour, not only by the conforming priests of whom he was one, and who formed of course the great majority of the clergy of the Church of England during the early years of Elizabeth's reign, but also by the new men, ordained under the new regime.\n\nAn historical romance, based on the life of Bernard Gilpin, concerning whom a good deal is known, and illustrated, by a competent historical scholar, with accurately stated incidents, in which the religious life of the Reformation period should be depicted, as graphically as Newman in Callista, or Pater in Marius the Epicurean, deincted the growth of Christian ideas in the early centuries of our era – such a book would certainly go far to fill the vacant place to which at the outset I referred; and might, in the guise of fiction, obtain a wide circulation and popular acceptance, doing thus a great service to the cause of historical truth.\n\nHe was not satisfied with the Elizabethan settlement, had great respect for the Church fathers, and was with difficulty induced to subscribe. The views of Archbishop Sandys on the Eucharist horrified him; but on the other hand he maintained friendly relations with Bishop Pilkington and Thomas Lever, and the Puritans had some hope of his support.\n\nBernard Gilpin died on 4 March 1583 in Durham Market-place when an ox and cart ran him over. His tomb is in Houghton-le-Spring Church. He is featured in stained glass in Liverpool's Anglican Cathedral.\n\nGeorge Carleton, Bishop of Chichester (1619–1628), was a pupil of Bernard Gilpin at the Royal Kepier Grammar School at Houghton-le-Spring. He published his Vita Bernardi Gilpini in 1628. This was published in English in 1638 as The Life of Bernard Gilpin along with the text of the Sermon preached before Edward VI in 1552. The Reverend C. S. Collingwood's Memoirs of Bernard Gilpin was published in 1884.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314529", "title": "Felidae (novel)", "text": "Felidae (novel)\n\nFelidae is a 1989 crime fiction novel by the German-Turkish writer Akif Pirinçci. The main character is a cat named Francis who investigates the murders of several cats in a big city in Germany. , there are eight books in the \"Felidae\" series: \"Felidae\", \"Felidae II\" (also known as \"Felidae on the Road\" or, in the original German version, \"Francis\"), \"Cave Canem\", \"Das Duell\", \"Salve Roma!\", \"Schandtat\", \"Felipolis\" and \"Göttergleich\", of which only \"Felidae\", \"Felidae II\", and \"Felidae V: Salve Roma!\" have been translated into English.\n\nAlthough being primarily a work of crime fiction, the \"Felidae\" series discuss many contemporary ethical problems and philosophical questions, such as the relationship between mankind and animals and the idea of superior races within species. Thus, the \"Felidae\" series can be considered more complex and multi-layered than many contemporary crime novels.\n\nThe novel begins with Francis, a tomcat, moving to a new neighborhood with his owner. Francis soon finds the corpse of another local cat, Sascha. Bluebeard (Blaubart in the original print), a deformed local cat, is convinced that humans (cat slang: \"can-openers\") are responsible for the death and other recent murders. Francis disagrees with this assessment, convinced that the slash on Sascha's neck was caused by teeth. The discovery of the body marks the start of terrible nightmares that afflict Francis and intertwine him with the murders. Another tomcat, \"Deep Purple\", is the next victim; while visiting the body, Francis notices that he, like Sascha, most probably was killed by another animal, in exactly the same way as Sascha.\n\nThat night, Francis hears loud yowls that are coming from the uninhabited upper floors of his house. He finds a strange religious meeting taking place, in which a cat named Joker preaches about a cat known as Claudandus, a Jesus Christ-like figure, who allegedly sacrificed himself and ascended to Heaven. Meanwhile, cats jump into frayed wires and electrocute themselves. Francis accidentally alerts Joker to his presence, and is chased by the cult members. He escapes and falls through a skylight. He then meets Felicity (Felicitas in the original print), a blind Russian Blue who has heard the murderer and his victims shortly before their death. Additionally, Felicity says that she sees images in her mind alongside feelings of fear and pain. Francis believes that the images are actually memories retained from childhood. After leaving Felicity's home, Bluebeard takes Francis to Pascal, an intelligent Havana Brown who has learned to use his owner's computer. With it, he has compiled a list of the local cats. Francis learns from Pascal that Felicity has just been reportedly murdered.\n\nFrancis experiences another nightmare that night, inspired by Pascal's words that Felidae deserve admiration, and the large portrait of Gregor Mendel in Pascal's house. Unnerved, Francis hunts for rats and finds the journal of a \"Professor Julius Preterius\", a scientist who used the house as a laboratory years prior. Francis learns that Preterius was attempting to create a flesh-binding glue with assistants Ziebold and Gray, using living cats to test it. The glue is unsuccessful, and, desperate, Preterius uses the glue on a stray cat. Due to a genetic abnormality, the glue seals the wounds on the cat instantly. Preterius names the cat Claudandus (\"one who must or should be sealed\"), and plans to breed him and replicate the mutation. Preterius descends into madness, but continues with his project long after funding ceases and his assistants have left. The journal's last entry reveals that Preterius had heard Claudandus speak to him, and was planning to free the cats.\n\nFrancis later encounters the strange Persian Jesaja, who alludes to escaping from Preterius' lab and proclaims to be the Guardian of the Dead. He lives within ancient catacombs, keeping a tomb housing hundreds of cat skeletons. Jesaja says that he serves \"the Prophet\" (Claudandus), who delivers corpses for him to guard. That night, Francis experiences another dream, this time involving a white cat who states he is Felidae. He is surrounded by hundreds of others, many of whom Francis recognizes. The white cat invites Francis to join them on a journey to Africa. Francis awakes, and answers the call of a female in heat. He inquires about her breed. However, she simply states that her breed has no name, but is both old and new. He later learns from Bluebeard that her race is different, and more wild than standard cats.\n\nFrancis, Pascal, and Bluebeard continue to research the murders. Their new data suggests that the murderer has been active since the demise of Preterius, and has killed approximately 450 cats. Joker has gone missing, and cannot be located. The three present this information to the local cats, and Pascal presents a logical explanation that places the blame on Joker. The crowd is placated, but Francis is not; he visits Joker's home. He finds Joker dead among porcelain statues. Unlike previous murders, there appears to have been no struggle. Joker had allowed the murderer to kill him in order to protect the secret of the Claudandus sect. Francis returns home, and reads an encyclopedia entry on genetics, which mentions Mendel as the founder of modern genetics through his experiments on plant hybridization. He realizes that the new-old cats are being specifically bred to bear attributes of their ancient Egyptian ancestors. Francis immediately begins to connect his dreams to the murders, and makes sense of Felicity's past comments: a cat had been attempting to keep standard males from breeding with the special females, and killed them after they failed to comply. He also recalls that Pascal's owner idolizes Mendel, that Pascal offhandedly mentioned his owner's name being Ziebold, and that Pascal spoke of Felidae with yearning.\n\nFrancis concludes that the murderer is Pascal, who really is Claudandus, and goes to confront him. He finds a program on the computer that catalogs the new breed's genetics and breeding, as well as the cats killed to keep from contaminating the lines. Claudandus reveals himself, explaining that he harbors a deep hatred towards humanity due to the suffering inflicted upon him by Preterius. He had killed Preterius and set the other cats free before being rescued by Ziebold. Claudandus had wanted Francis to take over the program, hoping that the cats would eventually evolve into something capable of overthrowing the human race and all other species which he saw as inferior. Francis and Claudandus begin to battle, with Claudandus accidentally destroying the computer and setting the house afire in the process. Claudandus dies after Francis slits his throat.\n\nIn the epilogue, Francis states that he never told any others the true identity of the murderer, and that Joker's name was eventually cleared. Jesaja was coaxed out of the catacombs, and has found a home with a bartender. Francis muses that Claudandus had succumbed to hatred, lost his innocence, and in the process, became human. He states that all animals have the ability to lose their innocence and humans, who descended from animals, still carry a hint of innocence. The novel ends with Francis urging the reader to never cease believing in a world where all animals and humans coexist, including those \"more sublime and intelligent than the latter--for example, Felidae.\"\n\nIn Germany, \"Felidae\" became a best-seller. The initial print run of the novel in Germany was 7000 copies, but the publisher began producing more after the book's success. Worldwide, \"Felidae\" has sold millions of copies.\n\nA German animated film, also called \"Felidae\", produced in 1994 and directed by Michael Schaack was based on the first \"Felidae\" novel of the same name. The movie script was co-written by Pirinçci. It was the most expensive animated film produced in Germany, reportedly costing 10 million marks.\n\n"}
{"id": "2314531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314531", "title": "Palace Bingo and Casino", "text": "Palace Bingo and Casino\n\nThe Palace Casino and Hotel is a Casino and Hotel owned and run by the Leech Lake Band Of Ojibwe in Cass Lake, Minnesota.\n\n"}
{"id": "2314552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314552", "title": "Saneatsu Mushanokōji", "text": "Saneatsu Mushanokōji\n\nBorn in Kōjimachi, Chiyoda, Tokyo Saneatsu was the eighth son of Viscount Mushanokōji Saneyo, who died when Saneatsu was age two. Raised mostly by his mother. Saneatsu was a frail and sickly youth, unable to compete in the physical activities at the Gakushūin Peers' School. To compensate, he developed his debating skills and developed an interest in literature. During his time at this school he became friends with Naoya Shiga, and was introduced by his uncle to the Bible and the works of Tolstoy. Saneatsu enrolled in the sociology department of Tokyo Imperial University, but left without graduating in 1907 to form a literary group with Kinoshita Rigen, Shiga Naoya, Arishima Takeo, and Ogimachi Kinkazu (). They named the group \"Jūyokkakai\" (\"The Fourteenth Day Club\"). This group evolved into the \"Shirakaba\" (\"White Birch\") literary coterie, and began publishing a literary magazine of the same name in 1910. In 1913, Saneatsu married Fusako Miyagi, a woman to whom he had earlier been introduced by Kokichi Otake. Both Miyagi and Otake were members of the women's literary association (and publishers of the journal of the same name), \"Bluestocking\".\n\nAs a key member of \"Shirakaba\", Mushanokōji in 1910 published his work in its magazine. This was followed by , in 1912. Through the medium of \"Shirakaba\", Mushanokōji began moving away from the Tolstoy ideal of self-sacrifice, and promoted his philosophy of humanism as an alternative to then-popular form of naturalism. While his humanism borrowed some elements from naturalism, he in general believed that humanity controlled its own destiny through the assertion of will, whereas the naturalists tended to see the individual as powerless and desperate against forces beyond personal control.\n\nWith the outbreak of World War I, Mushanokōji turned again to Tolstoy for inspiration and for the further development of his humanitarianism philosophy. During this time, he published (1915), a play involving a choice between self-love and love for mankind. He relocated to what is now part of Abiko, Chiba in 1916, together with Shiga Naoya and Yanagi Sōetsu.\n\nIn 1918, Mushanokōji took the next step in the development of his philosophy by moving to the mountains of Kijō, Miyazaki in Kyūshū, and establishing a quasi-socialistic utopian commune, Atarashiki-mura (New Village) along vaguely Tolstoyan lines. Soon afterwards, he published (1919), a novel presenting his image of the ideal human; and (1920), a novel portraying the victory of humanism over ego. His idealism appears in his autobiographical novel (1923), and in the play (1922). \nThe commune also published its own literary magazine, \"Atarashiki-mura\". In the 1920s, while running the commune, Mushanokōji was very prolific in his literary output. However, Mushanokōji tired of the social experiment and left the village in 1926; a dam project forced it to relocate to Saitama Prefecture in 1939, where it still exists.\n\nAfter the Great Kantō earthquake of 1923, Mushanokōji returned to Tokyo to run an art gallery, and started to sell his own paintings, mostly still lifes depicting pumpkins and other vegetables. Publication of \"Shirakaba\" was suspended after the earthquake, but Mushanokōji went on to bring out the literary magazine, \"Fuji\", with the novelist and playwright Nagayo Yoshirō. During this period, he turned his attention to writing historical novels or biographical novels, such as \"Ninomiya Sontoku,\" about the 19th century farm technologist and agricultural philosopher.\n\nThrough the 1930s and 1940s, he faded from the literary world. Encouraged by his older brother Kintomo Mushanokōji, who was the Japanese ambassador to Nazi Germany, he traveled throughout Europe in 1936. In 1946, he was appointed to a seat in the House of Peers of the Diet of Japan. However, four months later he was purged from public office by the American Occupation authorities, due to his (1942), supporting the actions of the Japanese government in World War II.\n\nMushanokōji made a literary comeback with his novel (1949–1950). He was awarded the Order of Culture in 1951, and became a member of the Japan Art Academy in 1952.\n\nMushanokōji lived to the age of 90. He died at the Jikei University School of Medicine Hospital in Komae, Tokyo of uremia. His grave is at the Chūō Reien in the city of Hachiōji, close to Tokyo. His home in Chōfu, Tokyo, where he lived from 1955 to 1976 has been turned into a memorial museum.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314553", "title": "Museum Boerhaave", "text": "Museum Boerhaave\n\nRijksmuseum Boerhaave is a museum of the history of science and medicine, based in Leiden, Netherlands. The museum hosts a collection of historical scientific instruments from all disciplines, but mainly from medicine, physics, and astronomy.\n\nThe museum is located in a building that was originally a convent in central Leiden. It includes a reconstructed traditional anatomical theatre. It also has many galleries that include the apparatus with which Heike Kamerlingh Onnes first liquefied helium (in Leiden), the electromagnet equipment used by Wander Johannes de Haas (a Leiden physicist) for his low-temperature research, and an example of the Leiden jar, among many other objects in the extensive collection.\n\nThe museum is named after Herman Boerhaave, a Dutch physician and botanist who was famous in Europe for his teaching at Leiden and lived to a great age, receiving brilliant students from all over Europe, including Peter the Great, Voltaire and Linnaeus.\n\nBoerhaave Museum's history began in 1907, when a Historical Exhibition of Natural Science and Medicine was held in the Academy Building Academiegebouw (Leiden) of Leiden University. The many objects in the exhibition came from all the learned corners of the country. It was a great success and there were immediately calls to set up a permanent science history exhibit.\n\nIn 1928 a foundation was initiated by physicist Claude August Crommelin, who worked at Leiden university, for a museum for the history of natural sciences. The aim of the museum was described in the preliminary statutes of the foundation: \"the collection of instruments, tools, slides and specimens, documents and other objects, which are important for the history of the natural sciences; to look after these objects, describe them and keep them in a museum which is to be located in Leiden\". The sciences to be represented included: Astronomy, Physics, Chemistry, Botany, Zoology, Pharmacy, all medical sciences - including Physiology, Anatomy et cetera, and Mathematics.\n\nIn 1931 the museum opened as \"The Dutch Historical Museum of the Natural Sciences\" (\"Het Nederlandsch Historisch Natuurwetenschappelijk Museum\"). To the view of Crommelin, the museum was to become a national museum: the 's Gravesande-Musschenbroek collection would form the starting point, to which collections from other institutes were to be added.\n\nIn 1947 the museum, which was in fact a private foundation, became formally a national museum. It was renamed to \"The Dutch National Museum for the History of the Natural Sciences\" (\"Rijksmuseum voor de Geschiedenis van Natuurwetenschappen\"). An advisory board was installed in which members of Dutch universities would take seat. It underlined the ambition to become a national museum, not a museum solely connected to the Leiden University.\n\nBefore moving in 1991, the museum was located in the former Boerhaave Laboratory at the Steenstraat 1, Leiden, a building which belonged to the Leiden Academic Hospital (\"Leiden Academisch Hospital\"), now part of LUMC, Leiden University Medical Center. This location of the museum now houses the National Museum of Ethnology.\n\nTo create better housing the former nunnery of Saint Cecilia was bought by the Government Buildings Agency (Rijksgebouwendienst). This historic building has had various functions over time. The building dates from the early 15th century. The building had become municipal property after the Protestant Reformation and shortly before 1600 was converted into a pest house and lunatic asylum. The Leiden Academic hospital was founded in this location between 1636 and 1639. In 1967, with the prospect of a new location the name of the Museum was changed to \"Museum Boerhaave\". However, it took more than twenty years before the museum finally moved. After extensive restoration and expansion, the building is in use as a museum since 1991.\nRijksmuseum Boerhaave was elected European Museum of the Year 2019. Founded in 1977, this is the oldest and most prestigious museum award in Europe. The international jury praised the completely renewed science and medicine museum in Leiden: \"The exceptional public quality of this museum results from its artful approach to communicating science.  Important and beautiful objects are interpreted using the latest technologies and the personal stories of those driven by a passion for the pursuit of knowledge.  The result is science with a human face, inspiring curiosity and amazement as well as engaging a wide public in debates on important scientific and ethical questions issues of our time.\"\n\nThe Boerhaave Museum is running a project to document approx. 3000 objects in its collection online, with pictures and descriptions for every single object. In April 2010 the site featured over 1750 objects, ordered by room and showcase. This overview is in large part based on the museum's online documentation.\n\nThe museum has 25 rooms, which are by and large organised chronologically, with thematical subgroupings per room.\n\n\nGapers (wooden heads miming the swallowing of pills) and other shop signs for pharmacies and druggists. Also a 'dictionary of health': a tall book-shaped wooden chest (1660) filled with simples (basic substances used in medicine).\n\n\nThe room shows a reconstruction (1988) of the Theatrum Anatomicum (anatomical theatre) (built 1596). A richly decorated instrument chest (1670) which belonged to the Leiden surgeon's guild. A small collection of objects (largely Egyptian antiquities) that survived from the now gone Leiden Theatrum (one of the oldest museums of Europe ) are shown as well. On the wall three paintings: one depicting the magistrates of the Catharina and Caecilia Hospitals (the latter now houses the museum), a second showing a Prussian peasant from whom a 10-inch sword, swallowed in a drinking bout, has surgically been removed, a third showing renowned surgeon and designer of medical instruments Cornelis Solingen (1680). One of Solingen's inventions (part of the collection) was a screw to unindent a soldiers skull who had been hit by a bullet. Often in those days bullets did not fully penetrate a skull, merely deformed it.\n\n\nFour large allegoric paintings (± 1610) show in stages how the appreciation of a patient for his physician declines, from being a true savior when the illness is at its height, towards being a devil when the bill has been delivered. Three solid figures of Saints Cosmas and Damian, patrons of doctors and pharmacists. Six anatomical books and drawings (1520–1570) and six books on herbs (1480–1590) testify how in the Renaissance there was an urge to study life diligently and not take traditional beliefs for granted. A large collection of baked and painted apothecary jars (1550–1650) and (often ornamented) cast-iron and bronze mortars (1350-1700).\n\n\nThe following two rooms are dedicated to an era of blossom for the University of Leiden, the oldest university of the Netherlands (founded in 1575).\n\n\nThis large room is dedicated to physician, botanist and chemist Herman Boerhaave, physicist Willem 's Gravesande and instrument-maker Jan van Musschenbroeck. On display are large globes and a tiny pocket globe (all ~1700), each depicting heaven and earth. A table size planetarium by clock-maker Steven Tracy Mercury shows Venus, Earth with its moon, Mars, Jupiter with four moons and Saturn. There is also a large star atlas.\n\nAir pumps (1670–1730) and demonstration devices, notably several Magdeburg hemispheres, were made to explore the properties of the newly discovered vacuum. Other devices did the same for centrifugal force, collisions and laws of momentum, and gravity.\n\nHydrometers, an aerometer, a hydrostatic bellows, a balance and steam pump, several table-top fountains all were used to look into hydrostatic pressure, and capillary attraction.\n\nAlso shown are a large set of mathemical instruments to measure angles: sectors, a protractor and beam compass.\n\nA collection of balances, levers, tackles demonstrate laws of statics.\n\nA variety of lenses, prisms, a slit, trays and screens explore optics. About ten screw-barrel and compound miscroscopes (1710–1780) demonstrate how this young science underwent dramatic progress in few years. A veriety of curved mirrors, used as anamorphic toys, show how a deliberately distorted image can be restored back to the original.\n\nThe room also houses a range of instruments (levers and forceps) used to facilicate child birth.\n\nLastly, shown are models of three out of five of Archimedes' so called \"simple machines\" (lever, inclined plane, wedge, screw and wheel), several hydrostatic balances to demonstrate Archimedes' law and two \"tables of forces\" which demonstrate interactions of forces in a horizontal plane.\n\n\nCarl Linnaeus published his famous \"Systema Naturae\" in 1735, during his 3-year stay in the Dutch Republic, in which he also earned a degree in medicine, and closely worked together with Boerhaave. At display are paintings of Linnaeus and Boerhaave. Also 18th-century models and scientific measuring instruments: models that demonstrate basic physics principles, and instruments: several antique thermometers, a barometer, a theodolite and several pyrometers. Also two antique globes (one showing the heavens, one earth) and two mirror telescopes. The room is conamed after the brothers van Mussenbroeck: Pieter a professor, credited with the invention of the first capacitor in 1746: the Leyden jar, and Jan a famous instrument maker, who shipped his hand crafted precision thermometers all over Europe.\n\n\nOver 30 antique microscopes are shown, most from the 18th century, in a large variety, with different solutions for lighting the subject and minimization of lens defects (e.g. chromatic aberration): simple, compound and reflecting microscopes, so called English microscopes (renowned for their quality), solar microscopes (which project their image on a wall, using sunlight only). Several wooden cabinets with microscopic slides are testimony of the craftsmanship than went into collections of ready made samples, which at the time were highly fashionable among well-to-do citizens who took an interest in scientific developments.\n\nThe room is dedicated to famous 18th-century anatomist Bernhard Siegfried Albinus and his brother and successor Frederik Bernhard Albinus, showing a few of the over 750 wet and dry anatomical samples that Bernhard Siegfried collected, and a wide variety of medical instruments (most 1670-1700) collected by his brother: several amputation saws and knives, cauterizing irons, a wide variety of forceps and clamps, spatula's, an elevator, a bullet extractor and brace, several (drill) crowns, two drills, a lenticular, several elevatoriums, a chuck key, a coach screw, a retractor, lithotomy scoops, a Phimosis knife, gorgerets, a catheter, a bistoury cache, a combined syringotome and seton needle, a wound retractor, lithotomy directors, probes, a tobacco enema\n\n\nSebald Justinus Brugmans was a Dutch botanist, physician and professor of natural sciences. As an army physician he became notable for his battle against unsanitary conditions, and spread of contagious diseases. The room shows a large collection of fish skins ('the protected body'), human skulls (some affected by accident or disease), animal skulls (mainly birds) and a variety of other anatomic samples, including some foetusses in a jar.\n\n\nThe room houses a large simples cabinet (1760), from Amsterdam physician Hendrik Bosch. Also a large cabinet with butterflies (1760) (content lost) from Christiaan Sepp and son, who published a work on butterflies and insects in several volumes (1762–1860).\n\n\nA large collection of shells. Four book shaped boxes (1809), out of a collection of 150, each box made of wood of a particular tree or shrub and filled with its wood, leaves, seeds and fruits. Also on display cases with butterflies and beetles. Lastly a portrait of Abraham Nieuwland (1780).\n\n\nShown are a collection of 19th century animal organ specimens (protected against decay with wax and varnish) which had been prepared for research (e.g. comparative anatomy), and educational purposes (e.g. veterinarian school). Also shown are anatomical drawings from that same period. Many specimens and drawings are from large mammals, cattle but even more large mammals of non European origin.\n\n\nThe room shows wax models of human and animal brains (1850–1870), prepared for educational purposes. Also display boxes with carefully arranged human hand bones and foot bones, and several skeletons of small animals. Also some 25 jars containing animals in preservative fuels (alcohol, formalin), some anatomically prepared to show inner organs (1830–1910). Part of the collection in the room was prepared by Jan van der Hoeven (1802–1868), professor of Zoology, Comparative Anatomy, Anthropology, Mineralogy and Geology at the University of Leiden. His portrait is on display. Van der Hoeven studied members of 'exotic races' (as it was called at the time), and produced a large amount of visual materials (drawings, engravings, lithographs). Three of these visual studies are on display.\n\n\nAnatomical wax models by Petrus Koning (1787–1834), anatomical gouaches\n\n\n\nThis room is dedicated to the scientific and technical progress in fields of electricity and optics in the 19th Century. Inventions like telegraphy and the camera had a revolutionary and lasting impact on everyday life.\n\nThe room shows a collection of microscopes (compound, binocular, achromatic, inverted) (1730–1860) and attributes. A set of instruments for optical chemical analysis (1850–1900): a crystal goniometer, a polarimeter, a saccharimeter, a spectroscope, a bunsen burner, a solution tube, gas-discharge tubes. Devices to study, demonstrate and explain the physical qualities of light: prisms and lenses, a heliostat and carbon arc lamp (with clockwork)(1820–1870). A collection of applied optics: a camera, sextant, stereoscope, several telescopes, mechanical lantern slides, a repeating reflecting circle (?), a phantascope (two discs, one with slits, one with images, which when rotating in opposite directions create a cinematographic effect), a projection lantern (1770–1860). Several telescopes: achromatic telescopes (1770 and 1850) and a reflecting telescope (1830). Several electrostatical devices: batteries composed of leyden jars and electrical machines (1770–1800) that were used to generate electricity. A variety of electrostatic toys and experimentation kits (1770–1820) to amuse and educate the public. Some show cases still to do.\n\n\nDevices for physiotherapy using the method of Swedish physician Gustav Zander, developed ca. 1865. These devices featured on two world exhibitions. Their success led to 120 Zander institutes worldwide.\n\nFrench doctor Louis Auzoux (1797–1870) pioneered the use of papier-mâché for highly detailed and colored anatomical models, with detachable parts, which allowed mass production for educational purposes. A selection of the many models on display: many human body parts, for example a box set with a model of female sexual organs plus almost 20 embryonic stages, models of the womb for every month of pregnancy. For purposes of comparative anatomy: models of brain or nervous system of diverse animals, models of blood circulation in diverse animals (e.g. a turtle, a crocodile), models of stomach or alimentary canal (e.g. octopus, honey bee).\n\n\nDutch scientist Jacobus Henricus van 't Hoff (1852–1911) was the first person to receive the Nobel Prize in Chemistry, for his discovery of the laws of chemical dynamics and osmotic pressure in solutions.\n\nIn the room hangs a painted portrait of van 't Hoff. His golden Nobel prize medal, and a lab journal are also shown. Also a variety of elementary equipment for a chemical laboratory: a distilling apparatus for water (1860), dilatometers, thermometers, hydrometers, alcohol meters, an oleometer, a colorimeter (1880), pycnometers (some with thermometer), pipettes, burettes, volumetric flasks, a boiling flask, a spectral burner and spectroscope (1880), polarimeters, a kipp generator (1850), sample collections of experimental chemicals (some in wooden boxes), an evaporating basin, gas burners, an oxyhydrogen voltmeter, apparatus for electrolysis, an analytical balance, cork presses, a refractometer (1910), a flash point apparatus for petroleum, a circular slide rule.\n\n\nIn the early years of the 19th Century, 4 Dutch physicists received a Nobel Prize in quick succession. This room is dedicated to their work and legacy.\n\nOn display are a helium liquefier and associated tools, devices to measure superconductivity (e.g. rheostats), and to automatically record measurements: a cathode tube, a thermograph, drum recorders and a paper tape recorder.\n\nAlso large (from today's perspective) devices, mostly made from wood and copper, to measure and display electricity (1900–1930): volt meters, a resistance box, radio valves, a universal bridge, mirror galvanometers, a quadrant electrometer .\n\nApparatuses to study radiation: a Wilson cloud chamber, an electrometer with ionization chamber, X-ray, cathode-ray and canal ray tubes, a fluorescent lamp.\n\nEquipment to study the properties of light (and radio waves in general), including the wave–particle duality (most 1900-1910): a slit, a polarizer, a photo-electric cell, a Fresnel double mirror, lenses, an induction coil, a photosensitive resistor, a spectroscope, an oscillograph, a wireless receiver, a microphone, standards of self-induction.\n\nAlso Zeeman's Nobel Prize diploma and medal and a lab diary, an electromagnet with polar pieces, 3D plaster models to visualize thermodynamic properties (e.g. phase transitions).\n\n\nPieces at display include: a gigantic microtome, the first heart-lung machine (prototype) by inventor Jacob Jongbloed (1948), the first kidney dialysis machine by inventor Willem Johan Kolff, X-ray equipment, an iron lung, galvanometer tools, a bow and arrow used to draw ultra thin quartz fibres (by shooting away a droplet of molten quartz), the original golden Nobel Prize medal from Willem Einthoven (for developing the first practical electrocardiogram in 1903)\n\n\nThe room houses two electron microscopes (1947–1950) and related equipment (gold vaporiser, lens, object holders, a cooler, a goniometer), a collection of compound and specimen microscopes (some binocular) (1840–1870) plus accompanying microscope lamps and a tool box, a binocular polarisation microscope (1850), several microtomes (a.o. a cryomicrotome) and ultramicrotomes, a phase contrast microscope, a fluorescence microscope (plus several epi-illuminators, to exploit the difference between emitted and reflected light frequencies that some substances display), compound microscope with transformer in camera installation, a photomicroscope (photo camera with inverted microscope), a boxed collection of microscopic specimens (1870).\n\nThe museum also contains a fountain pen that was gifted in 1921 by Albert Einstein to Paul Ehrenfest, then the director of the physics faculty of Leiden University. This pen was gifted to Ehrenfest as a thank you gift for the friendship that he and Einstein shared, and because Ehrenfest created a professorship for Einstein. Einstein was a 'bijzonder hoogleraar', meaning a professor by special appointment made possible by the Leids Universiteits Fonds from 1920 up to officially 1946. In the first half of his appointment he visited Leiden regularly to give lectures.\nThere is a note with the pen on which is written (In German): 'This pen has been used for years by Einstein, especially during the time between 1912 and 1921 - So that all his designs and calculations relating to general relativity and gravity from this time period are written with this pen. He gave this pen to me in 1921. P. Ehrenfest. '\n\n"}
{"id": "2314554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314554", "title": "Lords of the Starship", "text": "Lords of the Starship\n\nLords of the Starship is a 1967 science fiction novel by American author Mark S. Geston. His debut work, it was written while he was a sophomore at Kenyon College. It was originally published in paperback by Ace Books, then reprinted for the British market in hardcover by Michael Joseph in 1971 and in paperback by Sphere Books a year later. Gregg Press published an archival edition in 1978 (a facsimile of the Michael Joseph edition); and Baen Books included it in its 2009 omnibus of Geston's early novels, \"The Books of the Wars\".\n\nThe novel takes a darkly cynical view of human nature; some critics have called it a very black comedy.\n\nIn the far future, on an Earth devastated by millennia of war, the Caroline Republic is hostile towards its neighbors despite sharing their dire economic straits. Outside the declining remains of civilization lie ruins and wastelands populated by mutants and monsters. It is generally felt that humanity lost its vitality long ago.\n\nTo a leading politician of the Caroline the aged veteran General Toriman proposes a centuries-long scheme to build the nation by taking control of an ancient shipyard hundreds of miles away which was apparently designed to build spacecraft. Ostensibly, the purpose of the project will be the construction of a spaceship seven miles long called the \"Victory\" to carry the population of the despairing world to a paradise planet called \"Home\". In fact, the ship will never be completed, but the effort will revitalize the nation's economy and perhaps restore mankind's missing quality.\n\nGeneral Toriman dies and the cynical politicians of the Republic rouse the population to begin the project. The River Road from the Caroline homeland to the Yards is forced with a bloody battle between a Caroline military force and mutants, during which the ghost of the ancient hero Miolnor IV appears to save the day.\n\nWork begins on constructing the ship. Despite their antiquity, the Yards' machinery and buildings seem to have been perfectly preserved and materials for the construction of the ship are discovered. Legends say that the fortifications still standing nearby defended human civilization against Dark Powers over the mountains to the west.\n\nThe magnificent city of Gateway grows in the hills above the Yards while the \"Victory\" slowly takes shape. Much of the population of the Caroline moves to the Yards and its society is formally divided into two classes. The Technos supervise construction and are aware of the motivational \"myth of the ship\" plan while the People believe that the voyage to the planet Home is the actual goal.\n\nSome Technos realize that, although Gateway has become rich and prosperous through the \"Victory\" project, the Caroline homeland is still as miserable as its neighbors. Before they can act on this knowledge the People revolt, led by a man named Coral who claims truthfully that the Technos have lied and do not intend to complete the \"Victory\". Most of the Technos are killed although one is allowed to bring the news to the Dresau Islands in the eastern sea. The Dresau Navy has a proud tradition as the last surviving remnant of vital humanity and its leader believes the \"Victory\" project has a sinister purpose, possibly directed by heirs of the dark power Salasar, which once ruled most of the earth.\n\nAfter almost two centuries of construction, the \"Victory\" is completed and the women and children of the People are placed aboard in suspended animation. Led by the Dresau Navy the gathered enemies of Coral's triumphant People attack with their restored ships and scavenged weapons. The defenses of the Caroline Empire are ineffective, and an apocalyptic battle rages about the Yards, with millions fighting. At the height of the battle the sea turns red with blood and the dead of past wars rise in support of the assault. The legendary fortresses fire missiles toward the west.\n\nBefore any of the men of the People board the \"Victory\" it moves down the ways to the sea. It turns its huge engines toward the shore and they ignite, incinerating the fighting armies, ships, Yards, and Gateway. The \"Victory\" then redirects the destruction onto itself and its millions of passengers. Balls of fire arrive over the mountains to complete the destruction.\n\nWhen the wreckage of the Yards has cooled, the man who has been called General Toriman, the ghost of Miolnor IV, and Coral arrives. The \"Victory\" project and its opposition have been devised by the heirs of Salasar. He signals the completion of the project; the military powers of the east have been destroyed and invasion by those in the west can begin.\n\nAlgis Budrys, although praising Geston as a promising new writer and finding \"quite a bit of enjoyment\" in the novel, concluded that \"Lords of the Starship\" was \"a bad and disappointing book on its own terms.\" Brian Stableford characterized it as an \"earnestly stylish stud[y] of terminal cultural decadence\".\n"}
{"id": "2314555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314555", "title": "Achdé", "text": "Achdé\n\nAchdé (), the pseudonym of Hervé Darmenton (; born July 30, 1961), is a French comic book writer and artist. The pseudonym is based on the French pronunciation of his initials, \"H.D.\" (similar to Hergé and Jijé). After the death of Morris, the creator of \"Lucky Luke\", Achdé continued the task of drawing new \"Lucky Luke\" stories from 2003 onwards.\n\nBefore dedicating himself to his craft, Achdé worked as a doctor with a specialty in radiology, but abandoned a career in medicine in 1985 to dedicate himself fully to drawing. He began illustrating newspapers and self-published \"Destins Croisés\", his first comic book, in 1988. He joined the French publishing house Dargaud in 1991 and created several new series, alone and in partnership, including \"Fort Braillard\", \"Woker\" (which concerns an interplanetary Tarzan), and \"Doc Véto\". In 1993, he launched the series \"CRS=Détresse\", CRS being a reference to the \"Compagnies Républicaines de Sécurité\", the French security forces attached to the national police force, who are deployed during riots and demonstrations.\n\nFollowing the death of Morris, Achdé was given the assignment to carry on the \"Lucky Luke\" series in collaboration with writer Laurent Gerra, and has stated, \"For me it's been a childhood dream; when I was little, \"Lucky Luke\" was my favorite hero, and when I was young I knew I wanted to be a cartoonist.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314574", "title": "Stratonovich integral", "text": "Stratonovich integral\n\nIn stochastic processes, the Stratonovich integral (developed simultaneously by Ruslan Stratonovich and Donald Fisk) is a stochastic integral, the most common alternative to the Itô integral. Although the Itô integral is the usual choice in applied mathematics, the Stratonovich integral is frequently used in physics.\n\nIn some circumstances, integrals in the Stratonovich definition are easier to manipulate. Unlike the Itô calculus, Stratonovich integrals are defined such that the chain rule of ordinary calculus holds.\n\nPerhaps the most common situation in which these are encountered is as the solution to Stratonovich stochastic differential equations (SDEs). These are equivalent to Itô SDEs and it is possible to convert between the two whenever one definition is more convenient.\n\nThe Stratonovich integral can be defined in a manner similar to the Riemann integral, that is as a limit of Riemann sums. Suppose that formula_1 is a Wiener process and formula_2 is a semimartingale adapted to the natural filtration of the Wiener process. Then the Stratonovich integral\n\nis a random variable formula_4 defined as the limit in mean square of\n\nas the mesh of the partition formula_6 of formula_7 tends to 0 (in the style of a Riemann–Stieltjes integral).\n\nMany integration techniques of ordinary calculus can be used for the Stratonovich integral, e.g.: if \"f\":R→R is a smooth function, then\nand more generally, if \"f\":R×R→R is a smooth function, then\nThis latter rule is akin to the chain rule of ordinary calculus.\n\nStochastic integrals can rarely be solved in analytic form, making stochastic numerical integration an important topic in all uses of stochastic integrals. Various numerical approximations converge to the Stratonovich integral, and variations of these are used to solve Stratonovich SDEs .\nNote however that the most widely used Euler scheme (the Euler–Maruyama method) for the numeric solution of \nLangevin equations requires the equation to be in Itô form.\n\nIf \"X\", \"Y\" and \"Z\" are stochastic processes such that\nfor all \"T\">0, we also write\nThis notation is often used to formulate stochastic differential equations (SDEs), which are really equations about stochastic integrals. It is compatible with the notation from ordinary calculus, for instance\n\nThe Itô integral of the process \"X\" with respect to the Wiener process \"W\" is denoted by \n(without the circle). For its definition, the same procedure is used as above in the definition of the Stratonovich integral, except for choosing the value of the process formula_14 at the left-hand endpoint of each subinterval, i.e.\n\nThis integral does not obey the ordinary chain rule as the Stratonovich integral does; instead one has to use the slightly more complicated Itô's lemma.\n\nConversion between Itô and Stratonovich integrals may be performed using the formula\n\nwhere ƒ is any continuously differentiable function of two variables \"W\" and \"t\" and the last integral is an Itô integral .\n\nIt follows that if \"X\" is a time-homogeneous Itô diffusion with continuously differentiable diffusion coefficient \"σ\" (i.e. it satisfies the SDE formula_18 ), we have\n\nMore generally, for any two semimartingales \"X\" and \"Y\"\nwhere formula_21 is the continuous part of the covariation.\n\nThe Stratonovich integral lacks the important property of the Itô integral, which does not \"look into the future\". In many real-world applications, such as modelling stock prices, one only has information about past events, and hence the Itô interpretation is more natural. In financial mathematics the Itô interpretation is usually used.\n\nIn physics, however, stochastic integrals occur as the solutions of Langevin equations. A Langevin equation is a coarse-grained version of a more microscopic model; depending on the problem in consideration, Stratonovich or Itô interpretation or even more exotic interpretations such as the isothermal interpretation, are appropriate. The Stratonovich interpretation is the most frequently used interpretation within the physical sciences.\n\nThe Wong–Zakai theorem states that physical systems with non-white noise spectrum characterized by a finite noise correlation time τ can be approximated by a Langevin equations with white noise in Stratonovich interpretation in the limit where τ tends to zero.\n\nBecause the Stratonovich calculus satisfies the ordinary chain rule, stochastic differential equations (SDEs) in the Stratonovich sense are more straightforward to define on differentiable manifolds, rather than just on R. The tricky chain rule of the Itô calculus makes it a more awkward choice for manifolds.\n\nIn supersymmetric theory of SDEs, the finite-time stochastic evolution operator is given its most natural mathematical meaning of the stochastically averaged pullback induced on the exterior algebra of the phase space by the noise-configuration-dependent SDE-defined diffeomorphisms. This operator is unique and corresponds to the Stratonovich interpretation of SDEs. In addition, Stratonovich approach is equivalent to the Weyl symmetrization convention needed for disambiguation of the stochastic evolution operator during the transition from path integral to its operator representation. Moreover, in the appendix of Ref., it is shown that the widespread argumentation stating that, unlike Ito approach, Stratonovich approach \"looks\" into the future is a misconception. None of the approaches to SDEs \"look\" into the future. The only advantage of the Ito approach is that the coordinate change at each time step is given as an explicit function of the current coordinate, whereas all other approaches to SDEs this function is implicit. This advantage, however, has no mathematical or physical significance and, consequently, the Ito approach does not have any advantages over, say, the Stratonovich approach to SDEs. At the same time, the use of the Ito approach leads to a stochastic evolution operator with the shifted flow vector field as compared to that of the original SDE under consideration.\n\n"}
{"id": "2314581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314581", "title": "Vesania", "text": "Vesania\n\nVesania (Latin for insanity) is a Polish extreme metal band. They were formed in 1997 by Orion, Daray, and Heinrich. Later members were Annahvahr and Hatrah, who left the band in 1999 and was replaced by Siegmar.\n\nTheir first album, \"Moonastray\", was a split with Black Altar, released in 2002 by Odium Records, exclusively in Poland. The release was limited to 666 copies and each album was signed with blood. 2003 saw the release across Europe of their first full-length album, \"Firefrost Arcanum\", by Empire Records. This was followed by the departure of band member Annahvahr. Their second album \"God the Lux\" was released in April, 2005, and shortly thereafter Valeo (Sammath Naur, Mortis Dei) joined the band as lead guitarist. Their third album, \"Distractive Killusions\", was released in 2007 on Napalm Records, from which came their first single \"Rage of Reason\". The vocals include screaming and low growling.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2314586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314586", "title": "Hans Lassen Martensen", "text": "Hans Lassen Martensen\n\nHans Lassen Martensen (August 19, 1808 – February 3, 1884) was a Danish bishop and academic.\n\nMartensen was born in a middle-class Lutheran family in Flensburg, in the Duchy of Schleswig (now Germany), as their only son. At that time Schleswig was a duchy between Holstein and Denmark. He grew up in a German-speaking society, while his father who was a schoolmaster, writer and sea-captain preferred to use Danish. Consequently the young Martensen upbrought in a multicultural situation and reconciliation of different cultures became his one of central interests through his life.\n\nHe studied theology in Copenhagen, and later was ordained in the Danish Church. From 1834 till 1836 he travelled foreign countries. He visited several cities including Berlin, Munich, Vienna and Paris. He met influential intellects including David Strauss, Franz von Baader and Schelling. During his travel, he began to read mystics, Eckhart, Tauler and Boehme. Also he studied Dante's \"The Divine Comedy\" with a great interest.\n\nAt Copenhagen he was lektor in theology in 1838, professor extra-ordinarius in 1840, court preacher also in 1845, and professor ordinarius in 1850. Once he was offered to a bishopric from Swedish Church but declined. In 1854 however he gave up his educational career and was made bishop of Zealand, the Danish Primate. In his studies he had come under the influence of Schleiermacher, Hegel and Franz von Baader; but he was a man of independent mind, and developed a peculiar speculative theology which showed a disposition towards mysticism and theosophy.\n\nHis contributions to theological literature included treatises on Christian ethics and dogmatics, on moral philosophy, on baptism, and a sketch of the life of Jakob Boehme, who exercised so marked an influence on the mind of the great English theologian of the 18th century, William Law. Martensen was a distinguished preacher, and his works were translated into various languages. The \"official\" eulogy he pronounced upon Bishop Jacob Peter Mynster (1775–1854) in 1854, in which he affirmed that the deceased man was one of the authentic truth-witnesses of Christianity to have appeared in the world since apostolic times, brought down upon his head the invectives of the philosopher Søren Kierkegaard.\n\nMartensen died on February 3, 1884 in Copenhagen, Denmark.\n\nThe Icelandic theologian Magnús Eiríksson (1806–1881), who lived from 1831 until his death in Copenhagen, was very critical of Martensen’s speculative theology, which he violently attacked in various publications from 1844 to 1850.\n\nAn autobiography, \"Aus meinem Leben\", appeared in 1883, and after his death the \"Briefwechsel zwischen Martensen und Dorner\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314593", "title": "John Gordon, 1st Viscount of Kenmure", "text": "John Gordon, 1st Viscount of Kenmure\n\nJohn Gordon, 1st Viscount of Kenmure (1599–1634) was a Scottish nobleman, renowned Presbyterian, and founder of the town of New Galloway.\n\nSir John Gordon of Lochinvar (as he was known before his ennoblement) was the eldest son of Sir Robert Gordon of Lochinvar (d. November 1628), a Gentleman of the King's Bedchamber, by his wife Lady Isabel Ruthven, daughter of the William Ruthven, 1st Earl of Gowrie. After completion of his studies he travelled on the continent, and while there he resided in the house of the famous John Welsh, who was then minister at St. Jean d'Angély in France, having been banished from Scotland.\n\nHe was one of the first to embark in the scheme for the establishment of colonies in America, and in 1621 obtained a charter of what was called the barony of Galloway in Nova Scotia (now Baleine, Nova Scotia).\n\nOn his return home Gordon exerted himself with success in getting Anwoth the parish in which the family residence was situated, disjoined from two other parishes with which it had been united; and through his, Samuel Rutherford was appointed minister of the new charge in 1627, which Kenmure later said was \"the most meritorious action of my life\".\n\nAt some point Gordon was knighted. A strong supporter of the Stuart monarchy, on 8 May 1633, as Sir John Gordon, knight, he was created Viscount of Kenmure and Lord Lochinvar by Charles I by Letters Patent, at his Scottish coronation in Edinburgh. The destination was to heirs male whatsoever bearing the surname and Arms of Gordon.\n\nHe attended the parliament held at Edinburgh the following June, but avoided the debate on the King's measures relative to the church, retiring instead to Kenmure Castle. He later regretted that he took no part but expressed his dilemma at not wishing to upset his monarch.\n\nAmong other favours conferred upon him by Charles I was the charter, dated 15 January 1629, of a Royal Burgh of New Galloway, a new town which was built within the limits of his estate at Kenmure Castle.\n\nSamuel Rutherford attended Kenmure on his deathbed and later wrote a tract entitled \"The last and heavenly Speeches and glorious Departure of John, Viscount Kenmure\", printed in Edinburgh in 1649, by Evan Tyler, His Majesty's Printer. It was reprinted in 1827.\n\nJohn Gordon married Lady Jane Campbell, sister of Archibald Campbell, 1st Marquess of Argyll.\n\nWhen John Gordon died, Lady Jane remarried, on 21 September 1640, to Sir Harry Montgomerie of Giffen, second son of Alexander Montgomerie, 6th Earl of Eglinton, and they had no children. She lived to a great age and was still alive in 1672.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314605", "title": "Ursula Oppens", "text": "Ursula Oppens\n\nUrsula Oppens (born February 2, 1944) is an American classical concert pianist and educator. She has received five Grammy Award nominations.\n\nUrsula Oppens was born on February 2, 1944 in New York City into a highly musical family. She obtained a high school diploma from the Brearley School (1961) a Bachelor of Arts degree (cum laude) from Radcliffe College (1965) and an M.S. degree from the Juilliard School (1967). She began early piano studies with her mother Edith Oppens, a noted piano pedagogue, and went on to study with American pianist Leonard Shure. At Juilliard she studied with Rosina Lhévinne and Felix Galimir. In 1969 Oppens won the Gold Medal at the Busoni International Piano Competition and the Young Concert Artists competition, plus an Avery Fisher Career Grant in 1976. She served as a Founding Member of the Speculum Musicae from 1971 to 1982. From 1994 until 2008 Oppens was on the summer faculty of the Tanglewood Music Center. She held the position of Distinguished Professor of Music at Northwestern University from 1994 to 2008, and in 2008 went on to take up a new post as Distinguished Professor of Music at the Conservatory of Music at Brooklyn College and the CUNY Graduate Center in New York City. Oppens is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.\n\nUrsula Oppens is renowned for her commissioning and championship of the music of American composers who were born predominantly in the early decades of the 20th century. The following is a list of composers who have been commissioned by Oppens or who have written works for her: Carla Bley, William Bolcom, Anthony Braxton, Elliott Carter, John Corigliano, Anthony Davis, John Harbison, Julius Hemphill, M. William Karlins, Bun-Ching Lam, Tania León, Peter Lieberson, Patricia Morehead, Conlon Nancarrow, Tobias Picker, Frederic Rzewski, Allen Shawn, Alvin Singleton, Richard Teitelbaum, Francis Thorne, Joan Tower, Lois V Vierk, Amy Williams, Christian Wolff, Amnon Wolman, and Charles Wuorinen. Often such composers have credited Oppens, an acclaimed pianist in the traditional repertory, with being an invaluable pianistic influence in the creation of their music. Oppens's command of contemporary idioms has also extended to the works of such European masters as Luciano Berio, Gyorgy Ligeti, and Witold Lutoslawski, whose Piano Concerto was given its Chicago Symphony premiere by Oppens under the baton of Erich Leinsdorf in 1994.\n\nOppens's discography includes a recording on Vanguard of Frederic Rzewski's \"The People United Will Never Be Defeated\" and a version on American Piano Music of Our Time of Elliott Carter's \"Night Fantasies\". Overall, Oppens's body of recordings—which has received four Grammy nominations to date—forms a survey of American contemporary piano music which, in addition to the aforementioned listings, also includes the complete piano music of Elliott Carter and John Corigliano, and compositions by John Adams, Julius Hemphill, Conlon Nancarrow and Tobias Picker, among others. Oppens has also set to disc a group of Beethoven piano sonatas and piano pieces for the Music & Arts label. To date Oppens has recorded for the following labels: Cedille, Wergo, Music & Arts, Vanguard Classics, Mode, Montaigne, CRI, Nuevo Era, Naxos, Angel, New World, Arte Nova, Nonesuch, Albany Records, Mark Masters, Summit, Boosey & Hawkes, New World, DeNote, Watt Works, and Bridge.\n\nSOLO RECORDINGS:\n\n\nOTHER SOLO RECORDINGS:\n\n\nRECORDINGS WITH ORCHESTRA:\n\nCHAMBER MUSIC RECORDINGS:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314611", "title": "University of Rochester Medical Center", "text": "University of Rochester Medical Center\n\nThe University of Rochester Medical Center (URMC), now known as UR Medicine, is located in Rochester, New York, is one of the main campuses of the University of Rochester and comprises the university's primary medical education, research and patient care facilities.\n\nURMC is one of the largest facilities for medical treatment and research in Upstate New York and includes a regional Prenatal Center, Trauma Center, Burn Center and the James P. Wilmot Cancer Center, an Epilepsy Center, Liver Transplant Center and Cardiac Transplant Center and also includes a major AIDS Treatment Center and an NIH-designated AIDS Vaccine Evaluation Unit. A large portion of the university's biomedical research is conducted in the Arthur Kornberg Medical Research Building and the Aab Institute of Biomedical Sciences.\n\nURMC occupies a complex located between Elmwood Avenue, Mount Hope Avenue (NY 15), Genesee Valley Park, and Lattimore Road.\n\nIn January 2008 the University of Rochester announced a $500 million strategic plan geared toward expansion in research and patient services. The plan will potentially add 800 new jobs to the university. Part of the expansion will include building a new 6-story, 123-bed addition to the hospital, a building for clinical and translational sciences, and a new ambulatory surgery center to be built on Westfall Road.\n\nStrong Memorial Hospital is the main teaching hospital and patient care facility at the University of Rochester and is housed within the main complex of the URMC. It is a Level I trauma center serving the Rochester community and is the most prominent member of the Strong Health System. Strong also includes the Golisano Children's Hospital at Strong, named after philanthropist Tom Golisano.\n\nThe School of Medicine and Dentistry (SMD) is an accredited medical school and school for advanced dental education, with graduate education programs in biomedical, biological and health sciences. The facilities of the school are located in its own wing of the main URMC complex and the adjoining Arthur Kornberg Medical Research Building with a total of more than of research space. Dental education and patient facilities are located within the URMC complex and the adjacent Eastman Institute for Oral Health.\n\nSMD is ranked 32nd for research and 32nd in the primary care schools category by \"U.S. News & World Report\", with the dental programs ranked in the top 10. SMD also received a full six-year accreditation by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education for its 26 residency programs at Strong Memorial Hospital in 2005. The medical school opened in 1925, and its first class graduated in 1929.\n\nThe School of Nursing is an accredited nursing education program located in the Helen Wood Hall building of URMC. The school's Pediatric Nurse Practitioner program was ranked the seventh best in the U.S., with the Adult Nurse Practitioner program ranked 13th and the Family Nurse Practitioner program ranked 21st by \"U.S. News\".\n\nRecently, several new programs and centers have been founded at URMC. A cancer stem cell research program has been established at the Wilmot Cancer Center, one of only three such programs in the United States, the others being at Harvard University and Stanford University. Also, a new Clinical and Translational Sciences Institute has been announced, which will be housed in a new research and education facility. The program was awarded a $40 million NIH grant, one of the largest in the history of the university. URMC acquired Lakeside Hospital in Brockport and is creating Strong West. It will be an urgent care center with the possibility of having an emergency department system. In addition, a network of new Urgent Care centers branded as UR Medicine Urgent Care have opened in areas surrounding the Rochester, NY area since 2017, with more being added regularly.\n\nURMC comprises the largest portion of the University of Rochester's annual budget. For the 2004-2005 fiscal year, URMC's patient care and hospital resources accounted for 59% of the total university budget at $910 million. URMC also makes up a large portion of the university's $232 million research budget.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314612", "title": "Juan Antonio Llorente", "text": "Juan Antonio Llorente\n\nJuan Antonio Llorente, ORE (March 30, 1756 in Rincón de Soto (La Rioja), Spain – February 5, 1823 in Madrid) was a Spanish historian.\n\nLlorente was raised by an uncle after his parents died. He studied at the University of Zaragoza, and, having been ordained priest, became vicar-general to the bishop of Calahorra in 1782. In 1785, he became commissary of the Holy Office (Inquisition) at Logroño and, in 1789, its general secretary at Madrid.\nIn the crisis of 1808, Llorente identified himself with the Bonaparte regime and was engaged for a few years in superintending the execution of the decree for the suppression of the monastic orders, in examining the archives of the Spanish Inquisition and in arguing for the submission of the Spanish church to the Bonaparte monarch.\n\nHis 1810 project for a division of Spain in prefectures and subprefectures (under the French revolutionary inspiration) was never brought into practice because of the war. On the return of King Ferdinand VII to Spain in 1814, he retreated to France, where he published his great work, \"Histoire critique de l'Inquisition espagnole\" (Paris, 1817-1818). His works \"were the first fully documented accounts of the Inquisition to have seen the light of day in over three hundred years of the tribunal's existence.\"\n\nTranslated into English, German, Dutch and Italian, it attracted much attention in Europe and involved its author in considerable persecution. While Llorente was in France, the mob destroyed his Spanish residence and his library of over 8,000 rare books and manuscripts (some irreplaceable). After the coup of Rafael de Riego (1820), he supported the new Liberal government. The discovery of his Carbonarian activities and the publication of his \"Portraits politiques des papes\" in 1822 culminated in a peremptory order to leave France.\n\nBoth the personal character and the literary accuracy of Llorente have been assailed, but, although he was not an exact historian, there is no doubt, according to the \"Encyclopædia Britannica (11th ed.)\", that he made an honest use of documents relating to the Inquisition which, in part, are no longer extant.\n\nThe English translation of the \"Historia\" (London, 1826) is abridged. Llorente also wrote \"Memorias para la historia de la revolución de España\" (Paris, 1814-1816), translated into French (Paris, 1815-1819); \"Noticias históricas de las tres provincias vascongadas\" (Madrid, 1806-1808); an autobiography, \"Noticia biográfica\" (Paris, 1818), and other works. Llorente's unpublished notes contributed a century later to the most reliable biography (by Gregorio Marañón) of Philip II's infamous secretary, Antonio Pérez.\n\n"}
{"id": "2314618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314618", "title": "George Hilsdon", "text": "George Hilsdon\n\nGeorge Richard Hilsdon (10 August 1885 – 10 September 1941) was a footballer who began his career at West Ham United, making his debut in the 1903–04 season. His brother Jack Hilsdon also played for West Ham at this time. Hilsdon transferred to Chelsea in 1906, and was the first player to score 100 goals for the West London club, reaching a then-record 108 goals from 164 games by the time of his return to West Ham in 1912. His career was ended by the First World War, to which he was conscripted in 1914 and crucially injured by a gas attack.\n\nHilsdon was nicknamed \"Gatling Gun\" because his shots \"were simply unstoppable and which travel like shots from a gun\".\n\nIn 1906, Hilsdon was recommended to then-Chelsea manager John Robertson, who had been advised that Hilsdon would be available for transfer; so enthralled was Robertson with Hilsdon's ability that he promised to turn him into Chelsea's next centre forward. Hilsdon joined Chelsea later that year on £4 a week wages. He scored five goals on his debut in a 9–2 win over Glossop North End, and would later score six in an FA Cup tie with Worksop Town, a club record which remains unequalled. The club programme described him as \"living proof that to become a first-class footballer it is not necessary to be born north of the Tweed\".\n\nHilsdon scored 27 goals that season, which helped earn Chelsea promotion to the First Division in their second year of professional football. Within three years he had scored 76 goals in 99 appearances. His later days with Chelsea were hindered by problems with injuries and his personal life, including a battle with alcoholism, though he did score 19 goals in 1910–11. He became the first Chelsea player to score 100 goals, and ended his time there with 108 from 164 games. He is currently the club's 9th highest goal scorer of all time.\n\nIn 1912, Hilsdon returned to West Ham, and was top scorer for them in the 1912–13 season, scoring 17 goals in 36 games. He was known at this point as the \"old international\", even though he was still only 27 years of age. Hilsdon played for West Ham until 1915, and during his two spells there he recorded 92 Southern League appearances, and scored 35 goals. Hilsdon also played in four World War I games for the East London club. He is also credited with helping the development of young West Ham striker Syd Puddefoot.\n\nHilsdon received international recognition for England, often playing alongside his Chelsea teammate, Jimmy Windridge. Shortly after joining Chelsea he was selected to play for a Football League XI, for whom he hit a hat-trick in a 6–0 win over the Irish League on his debut. He made his England debut in February 1907, against Ireland. He scored four goals for England in a 7–0 win over Hungary and two apiece in wins over Ireland, Austria, Wales and Bohemia. In all, he scored 14 times in just eight international games for England, eight of his goals coming from games in England's first overseas tour in 1908.\n\nDuring the First World War Hilsdon tried to avoid active service and was caught by the police hiding in a chicken run, and was called up. He fought on the Western Front where he was attacked by gas. This affected him greatly, and in the words of his son, he \"copped the mustard gas at Arras\".\n\nThe gas attack caused sufficient damage to Hilsdon to end his footballing career. After the War, he worked as a teaboy on building sites, ran a pub and organised raffles in East End pubs.\n\nHe died in Leicester in 1941 and only four people came to his funeral. In October 2015 Chelsea supporters raised funds for a headstone to mark his grave. A weather vane modelled on Hilsdon is still a feature of Stamford Bridge, Chelsea's home ground. It was said to cause great misfortune if removed, and when it had to be removed during renovation in the late 1970s, Chelsea suffered financial and footballing difficulties.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314625", "title": "Umamah bint Zainab", "text": "Umamah bint Zainab\n\nUmamah bint Abu al-'As bin al-Rabi' (Arabic: أمامة بنت ابو العاص بن الربيع) was a granddaughter of the Islamic prophet Muhammad and Khadija bint Khuwaylid. She is numbered among his companions.\n\nShe was the daughter of Abu al-As ibn al-Rabi' and of Muhammad's eldest daughter Zaynab. She had one sibling, Ali. Her maternal aunts were Muhammad's daughters Ruqayyah, Umm Kulthum and Fatimah.\n\nWhen Umama was a small child, Muhammad used to carry her on his shoulder while he prayed. He used to put her down to prostrate and then pick her up again as he rose. Muhammad once promised to give an onyx necklace to \"her whom I love best.\" His wives expected him to give it to Aisha, but he presented it to Umamah. On a different occasion, he gave her a gold ring that had arrived from the Emperor of Abyssinia.\n\nHer aunt Fatimah requested her husband Ali on her deathbed to marry her niece Umamah because Umamah had an intense attachment and love for Fatimah's children Hasan, Umm Kulthum, Zaynab and especially Husayn. After Fatimah died in 632, Umamah married Ali. They had one son, Muhammad \"the Middle\", who died young.\n\nAli was killed in 661, and Muawiyah I proposed to Umamah. She consulted al-Mughira ibn Nawfal ibn al-Harith about this. He said that she should not marry \"the son of the liver-eater (Hind bint Utbah)\" and offered to deal with the problem for her. When she agreed, he said, \"I will marry you myself.\" This marriage produced one son, Yahya.\n\nUmamah accompanied al-Mughirah into exile at al-Safri. She died there c680; but it is also said that she died in 670 (50 AH). It is said that her sons had no further descendants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314635", "title": "Pope B. Holliday Jr.", "text": "Pope B. Holliday Jr.\n\nPope Beauregard 'Doc' Holliday, Jr. (August 15, 1921 in Athens, Georgia – June 29, 2003 in Signal Mountain, Tennessee) was a decorated World War II officer. Born in Athens, Georgia, he would later go on to fame as an officer with the 82nd Airborne during World War II and later serve as a Medical Service Corps officer with the fledgling Army Air Force Air Rescue Service, earning a Bronze Star for his actions in saving the crew of a stricken B-17 Flying Fortress that had crashed into the Nicaraguan jungle.\n\nHe left the service and served as a pediatrician in Chattanooga, Tennessee until his death in 2003.\n"}
{"id": "2314639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314639", "title": "Ali ibn Zainab", "text": "Ali ibn Zainab\n\nAli ibn Zainab was a sahaba of Muhammad. He was the son of Zainab bint Muhammad and grandson of Muhammad, he died after a few years in 9 AH. His sister was Umamah bint Zainab.\n\n"}
{"id": "2314644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314644", "title": "Bruce Levy", "text": "Bruce Levy\n\nSir Enoch Bruce Levy (19 February 1892 – 16 October 1985) was a botanist from New Zealand who became widely known for his work on improving pastures.\n\nLevy was born in Auckland in 1892, and lived on a farm until he was 18 years old. He joined the New Zealand Department of Agriculture in 1911, and studied science at Victoria University in Wellington from 1926 to 1928. In 1925 he married schoolteacher Phyllis Rosa Kate Mason.\n\nIn 1937 he founded the Grasslands Division of the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research, and was Director of that division until he retired in 1951. During that time he travelled all over New Zealand, helping farmers to improve their pastures based on techniques that he had learned in Europe. After retiring, he worked on improving the turf of golf courses and bowling greens.\n\nLevy was the author of \"Construction, Renovation and Care of the Bowling Green\" (1949); \"Construction, Renovation and Care of the Golf Course\" (1950); and \"Grasslands of New Zealand\" (1951).\n\nIn the 1950 King's Birthday Honours, he was made an Officer of the Order of the British Empire, for services to agriculture in connection with grassland research. He was appointed a Knight Bachelor in the 1953 Coronation Honours.\n"}
{"id": "2314661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314661", "title": "Norelco", "text": "Norelco\n\nNorelco is the American brand name for electric shavers and other personal care products made by the Consumer Lifestyle division of Philips.\n\nFor personal care products marketed outside the United States, Philips used the Philishave trademark until 2006. Philips then dropped that name and began using the Philips name.\n\nFrom the early 1940s, Philco was legally able to prevent Philips from using the name \"Philips\" on any products marketed in the United States, because the two names were judged to sound similar enough to cause consumer confusion and potentially lead to claims of trademark infringement. As a result, Philips instead used the name Norelco, an acronym for \"North American Philips [electrical] Company\". Philips continued to use that name for all their U.S. products until 1974, when Philips purchased The Magnavox Company. Philips then relabeled their U.S. consumer electronics products as Magnavox, but retained the Norelco name for their other U.S. products. When Philips bought Philco in 1981, Philips was able to freely use the Philips name for all of their U.S. products, but they chose to retain the Norelco name for personal care appliances, and the Magnavox name for economy-priced consumer electronics.\n\nOne reason for retaining the Norelco name for personal care appliances was that a shift to the Philips name could have alienated those American buyers who were reluctant to purchase foreign brands. The market share of Philips, a European company, was very low in the U.S. compared to other countries, but with their Norelco and Magnavox brands, they were able to get a larger market share.\n\nPhilips began co-branding their shavers \"Philips Norelco\" in 2005 to improve Philips' brand recognition in the United States, a first step towards an intended phase out of the Norelco name.\n\nPhilips began making electric shavers in 1939. World War II delayed their introduction in the United States until 1948. The product was not successful until a two-headed model was introduced in 1951.\n\nPhilips introduced the Norelco Bodygroom shaver for shaving male body hair in 2006. An online website as well as a demonstration on Howard Stern's show garnered attention. It was advertised in a science fiction series of adverts and shorts directed by Bruno Aveillan called \"Robotskin\" in 2007.\n\nNorelco introduced the Philips 3 inch open reel portable tape player/recorder, being the EL 3586/25 in the United States under the Norelco brand name in November 1963. It was called the Continental 101.\n\nPhilips made and marketed a line of Norelco professional video cameras in the United States in the 1960s and 1970s. CBS was a notable customer, using models PC-60, PC-70, PC-72, PCP-90, the LDH series, and later the LDK series. The PC-60 was notable as one of the first major color television cameras, competing with the RCA TK-40/41 line but eventually winning out as industry standard (so much so that NBC, which was owned by RCA, bought Norelco PC cameras for sports and outside broadcasts) due to its light weight, servo-operated zoom lens, and advanced color reproduction. By the 1980s, the Norelco name was dropped in favor of Philips. Later marketed using the BTS—Broadcast Television Systems Inc.—brand name in a joint venture with Bosch, the division was subsequently sold to Thomson's Grass Valley, then to Belden.\n\n"}
{"id": "2314669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314669", "title": "Juan López de Padilla", "text": "Juan López de Padilla\n\nJuan López de Padilla (1490 – April 24, 1521) was an insurrectionary leader in the Castilian War of the Communities, where the people of Castile made a stand against policies of the Holy Roman Emperor Charles V and his Flemish ministers.\n\nPadilla was born in Toledo, Spain, the eldest son of the \"commendator\" of Castile. In 1520, after the Castilian deputies had demanded in vain Charles V's return to Castile, regard for \"cortes\"' rights and the administration of their economy by Spaniards, a \"holy junta\" was formed with Padilla as its head. At first, the junta attempted to establish a national government in the name of Juana of Castile, but lost the support of the nobility when it abolished their privileges and asserted democracy. Though the nobles' army subsequently captured Tordesillas, Padilla led the capture of Torrelobatón and other towns, but any advantage gained was neutralized by the junta after it granted an armistice. When hostilities resumed, their army was comprehensively defeated near Villalar, on April 23, 1521 and Padilla taken prisoner. He was publicly beheaded the following day.\nAfterwards, Padilla's wife, Doña María Pacheco, defended Toledo against the royal troops for six months, but ultimately was compelled to take refuge in Portugal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314680", "title": "Samuel Loring Morison", "text": "Samuel Loring Morison\n\nSamuel Loring Morison (born October 30, 1944) is a former American intelligence professional who was convicted of espionage and theft of government property in 1985 and pardoned in 2001. He was \"the only [American] government official ever convicted for giving classified information to the press.\"\n\nMorison was born in London, England, where his father was stationed during World War II. His paternal grandfather, Samuel Eliot Morison, was a distinguished naval historian, a Rear Admiral in the Naval Reserve and Harvard University professor. Morison spent much of his younger years in New York and Maine. He attended Tabor Academy, a college preparatory school in Massachusetts and graduated from the University of Louisville in 1967.\n\nMorison worked as an intelligence analyst at the Naval Intelligence Support Center (NISC) in Suitland, Maryland, from 1974 to 1984, specializing in Soviet amphibious and mine-laying vessels. During those years, Morison also earned $5,000 per year as a part-time contributor and editor of the American section of the London-based \"Jane's Fighting Ships\", an annual reference work on the world's navies.\n\nConflicts with his supervisors led Morison to seek a full-time position with \"Jane's\" in London. At this time, he began overstepping the boundary of permissible information that could be sent to \"Jane's\". As a GS-12 Soviet amphibious ship analyst with a Top Secret clearance, Morison provided \"Jane's\" with three secret satellite photographs that he had taken from the desk of a coworker at NISC in July 1984. Morison cut classified control markings from them before mailing them to \"Jane's\".\n\nIn 1984, two images of Soviet aircraft taken by a KH-8 or KH-9 satellite were inadvertently published in records of Congressional hearings. That same year, \"Jane's Defence Weekly\" was provided with several images taken by a KH-11 satellite of a Soviet naval shipbuilding facility. A 1984 computer-enhanced KH-11 photo, taken at an oblique angle, was leaked, along with two others, to \"Jane's Defence Weekly\". The image shows the general layout of the Nikolaiev 444 shipyard on the Black Sea. Under construction is the Kiev-class aircraft carrier \"Admiral Gorshkov\", originally named \"Kharkov\" and later \"Baku\", along with an amphibious landing ship.\n\nAccording to the US Government prosecutors, Morison also provided \"Jane's\" with a copy of a classified report on the damage to the Soviet navy base in Severomorsk that resulted from a 1984 explosion.\n\nA joint investigation by the Naval Investigative Service and the FBI led to Morison, who was arrested on October 1, 1984. A search of his apartment in Crofton, Maryland, revealed several hundred government documents, some of them classified. Investigators never demonstrated any intent to provide information to a hostile intelligence service. Morison was charged with espionage and theft of government property. Morison told investigators that he sent the photographs to \"Jane's\" because the \"public should be aware of what was going on on the other side\", meaning that the new nuclear-powered aircraft carrier would transform Soviet capabilities. He said that \"if the American people knew what the Soviets were doing, they would increase the defense budget.\" British intelligence sources thought his motives were patriotic. Prosecutors emphasized personal economic gain and Morison's complaints about his government job. Morison once wrote to his editor at \"Jane's\": \"My loyalty to Jane's is above question.\"\n\nOn October 17, 1985, Morison was convicted in Federal Court on two counts of espionage and two counts of theft of government property. He was sentenced to two years in prison on December 4, 1985. The Supreme Court declined to hear his appeal in 1988.\n\nFollowing Morison's conviction, the Reagan administration continued its campaign against leaks. In April 1986, an Assistant Under Secretary of Defense was fired for sharing classified information with reporters. In May, CIA Director William Casey threatened to prosecute five news organizations–the \"Washington Post\", the \"Washington Times\", the \"New York Times\", \"Time\" and \"Newsweek\"–and succeeded in delaying the publication of a \"Washington Post\" story.\n\nAs a result of the Morison case, policy guidelines for adjudicating security clearances were changed to include consideration of outside activities that present potential conflict of interest.\n\nIn 1998, Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan asked for appeal on the grounds of \"the erratic application of that law and the anomaly of this singular conviction in eighty-one years\". He cited examples of serious espionage cases exposed by the Venona project that were not pursued, specifically mentioning Theodore Hall, and other cases that had been dismissed, including those of Daniel Ellsberg and Anthony Russo.\n\nPresident Clinton pardoned Morison on January 20, 2001, the last day of his presidency, despite the CIA's opposition to the pardon.\n\nIn June 2014, Morison was arrested and charged with stealing government property from Navy Archives in Washington, D.C. The records were related to his grandfather, Rear Admiral Samuel Eliot Morison. He was sentenced to two years of probation on condition that he assist in returning the documents.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314688", "title": "Zainab bint Muhammad", "text": "Zainab bint Muhammad\n\nZainab bint Muhammad () (599—629 AD) was the eldest daughter of the Islamic prophet Muhammad by his first wife Khadija bint Khuwaylid.\n\nShe married her maternal cousin, Abu al-As ibn al-Rabi', before December 610, and Khadija gave her a wedding present of an onyx necklace. They had two children, Ali, who died in childhood, and daughter Umama..\n\nZainab became a Muslim soon after Muhammad first declared himself a prophet. The Quraysh pressured Abu al-As to divorce Zainab, saying they would give him any woman he liked in exchange, but Abu al-As said that he did not want any other woman, a stance for which Muhammad commended him. Muhammad had no jurisdiction over Mecca and therefore could not force them to separate, so they continued to live together despite Abu al-As's refusal to convert to Islam. Zainab remained in Mecca when the other Muslims following Muhammad migrated to Medina.\n\nAbu al-As was one of the polytheists who was captured at the Battle of Badr. Zainab sent the money for his ransom, including the onyx necklace. When Muhammad saw the necklace, he refused to accept any cash ransom for his son-in-law. He sent Abu al-As home, and Abu al-As promised to send Zainab to Medina. I\n\nZainab accepted this instruction. About a month after the battle, Zainab's adopted brother, Zayd, arrived in Mecca to escort her to Medina. She entered a \"hawdaj\" and her brother-in-law, Kinana, led the camel to Zayd in broad daylight. The Quraysh perceived this as an unnecessary flaunting of Muhammad's triumph at Badr. A group of them pursued Zainab and overtook her at Dhu Tuwa. A man named Habbar ibn Al-Aswad threatened her with his lance and pushed her. She fell out of the hawdaj onto a rock. Kinana showed the arrows in his quiver and threatened to kill anyone who came any closer. Then Abu Sufyan arrived, telling Kinana to put away his bow so that they could discuss it rationally. He said that they had no intention of keeping a woman from her father in revenge for Badr, but that it was wrong of Kinana to humiliate the Quraysh further by parading her removal in public; he must do it quietly, when the \"chatter\" had died down. Kinana took Zainab home again. There she suffered a miscarriage, losing a great deal of blood, which she attributed to having been assaulted by Habbar.\n\nA few nights later, Kinana took her quietly to meet Zayd, and he escorted her to Medina. Anas ibn Malik recalled seeing Zainab in Medina wearing a striped silk cloak.\n\nZainab did not see her husband again until September or October 627, when he entered her house in Medina by night, asking for protection. Muslim raiders had stolen some merchandise that he was keeping in trust for other Quraysh, and he wanted to try to recover it. The next morning, Zainab sat among the women at dawn prayers and shouted: \"I have given protection to Abu al-As ibn al-Rabi!\" As soon as prayers were over, Muhammad confirmed that he had not known anything about it, but \"We protect whomever she protects.\" He told Zainab to treat Abu al-As like a guest. Then he arranged for the Quraysh merchandise to be returned, and Abu al-As took it to its owners in Mecca.\n\nAbu al-As then converted to Islam and returned to Medina. Muhammad restored his marriage to Zainab, and they resumed their married life.\n\nTheir reconciliation was short-lived, for Zainab died in May or June 629. Her death was attributed to complications from the miscarriage that she had suffered in 624. The women who washed her dead body included Baraka, Sauda and Umm Salama.\n\nOne source states:\nMarriage rules:\n\nBased on certain narrations, also found in Sunnī sources, Muhammad said that daughters of his household could only marry those who were from Banū Hāshim.\n\nBut, if it is assumed that Zainab, Ruqayyah and Umm Kulthum were daughters of Muhammed and Khadijah, this argument does not seem to be correct since:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314693", "title": "James Phelps", "text": "James Phelps\n\nJames Phelps may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2314695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314695", "title": "Lansing State Journal", "text": "Lansing State Journal\n\nThe Lansing State Journal is a daily newspaper published in Lansing, Michigan, owned by Gannett.\n\nThe \"Lansing State Journal\" is the sole daily newspaper published in metropolitan Lansing. The newspaper had an average Monday through Friday readership of 41,330, a Saturday readership of 43,885, and a Sunday Readership of 65,904 from October 2011 to March 2012. It had an average Monday through Saturday readership of 47,716, and a Sunday readership of 66,518 from November 2010 to April 2011.\n\nThe paper was started as the Lansing Republican on April 28, 1855, to advance the causes of the newly founded Republican Party in Michigan. Founder and publisher Henry Barnes completed only two issues of the weekly abolitionist publication before selling it and returning to Detroit.\n\nAccording to the Pioneer History of Ingham County, \"In a few weeks, Barnes sold his interests to Herman E. Haskill. Shortly after Haskill made this purchase he met with a great disappointment. He was not appointed State Printer. Two men, Fitch and Hosmer, got the appointment, and Haskill sold his interests to them, and they published the paper in connection with the State printing. In 1857 Fitch sold his interests to John A. Kerr, and the firm’s name was changed to Kerr & Hosmer. I can remember the two men and the old red building on West Michigan Avenue where the State printing and binding was done, and this paper was published. It had a long sign on the roof that informed the passerby that it was the State Bindery and Republican Office.\"\n\nOver the next 50 years, the paper saw many name changes and many different owners, finally merging with the rival \"Lansing Journal\" forming \"The State Journal\" in January 1911. The first Sunday edition was published on September 27, 1936. Gannett bought the paper in 1971, and it became the \"Lansing State Journal\" on August 25, 1980. On April 15, 1985, it became a morning publication, rather than an afternoon one. In January 2016, the LSJ moved from its Lenawee Street headquarters building to the 3rd floor of the Knapp's Centre building.\n\nFormer contributors:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314708", "title": "Louis-Antoine Jullien", "text": "Louis-Antoine Jullien\n\nLouis-Antoine Jullien (23 April 181214 March 1860) was a French conductor and composer of light music.\n\nJullien was born in Sisteron, Alpes-de-Haute-Provence, and was baptised Louis George Maurice Adolphe Roche Albert Abel Antonio Alexandre Noë Jean Lucien Daniel Eugène Joseph-le-brun Joseph-Barême Thomas Thomas Thomas-Thomas Pierre Arbon Pierre-Maurel Barthélemi Artus Alphonse Bertrand Dieudonné Emanuel Josué Vincent Luc Michel Jules-de-la-plane Jules-Bazin Julio César Jullien. His father was Antonio Jullien, a violinist. The explanation of his unusual number of names is that when the time came for the baby to be baptised, his father had been invited to play at a concert given by the Sisteron Philharmonic Society, and considered it only polite to ask one of the members of the orchestra to be godfather: but since every member wished to be considered for the privilege, he was christened with the names of all thirty-six members of the society.\n\nHe served in the army and studied at the Paris Conservatoire. His fondness for showmanship and the lighter forms of music cost him his position in the school. He lived in Paris between 1826 and 1838, and there conducted the band of the Jardin Turc. But he was compelled to leave to escape his creditors, and came to live in London (1840-1856), where he formed a good orchestra and conducted bands and orchestras at promenade concerts. Subsequently he travelled to Netherlands, Scotland, Ireland and America with his orchestra, playing an eclectic mix of light popular music and the classical repertoire. His was an important role in presenting classical music to the public. For many years he was a familiar figure in the world of popular music in England, and his portly form with its gorgeous waistcoats occurs very often in the early volumes of \"Punch\".\n\nHe brought out an opera, \"Pietro il grande\", at Covent Garden (1852) on a scale of magnificence that ruined him, for the piece was a complete failure, despite the presence of Enrico Tamberlik in the title-role. He was in America until 1854, when he returned to London for a short time; ultimately he went back to Paris, where, in 1859, he was arrested for debt and put into prison.\n\nHe died in an asylum at Neuilly-sur-Seine, Hauts-de-Seine, but was still remembered in London twenty years after his death: he was described as \"Jullien, the eminent musico\" in W. S. Gilbert's libretto for \"Patience\" (1881).\n\n"}
{"id": "2314709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314709", "title": "Radway", "text": "Radway\n\nRadway is a village and civil parish in Warwickshire about north-west of Banbury in neighbouring Oxfordshire. The population taken at the 2011 census had reduced to 238.\n\nThe village is at the foot of Edge Hill and is notable for the Battle of Edgehill, one of the early major engagements of the English Civil War, which was fought in fields around the village and in the adjoining parishes of Ratley and Kineton.\n\nThe earliest known record of Radway is in the Domesday Book of 1086. In medieval times its lands were divided between Arbury Priory and Stoneleigh Abbey.\n\nAfter the Dissolution of the Monasteries under Henry VIII in the 1530s the lands of Radway were granted to various of Henry's circle, notably the Coke family. As the lands were sold over the following years, the manorial system of Radway broke down.\n\nRadway became a centre of Puritanism during and after the Commonwealth period. Persecution of Radway's Quakers and the jailing of some led eventually to a small group emigrating in the 1680s to a Quaker colony in Gloucester County, West New Jersey. Letters from New Jersey still survive in the local record office.\n\nRadway was enclosed in the 1750s.\nThe Church of England parish church of Saint Peter was designed by the Gothic Revival architect Charles Buckeridge and built in 1866. The remains of a previous church, dating from the Middle Ages, are still visible. Inside St Peter's are memorials re-set from the previous church. They include the 15th-century effigy of a priest, the effigy of Captain Henry Kingsmill who fought for Charles I and died in the Battle of Edgehill, and the architect Sanderson Miller who died at Radway. St Peter's has a ring of five bells, all cast by Robert Stainbank of the Whitechapel Bell Foundry in 1868. In 2015 a Heritage Lottery Funded permanent exhibition 'The People's Struggle' about the adjacent Battle of Edgehill battlefield and the battle's impact upon the local community, opened within the Church. (Two duplicate free-standing wind-up visitor audio guides were also installed within the village).\n\nThe Grange, originally an Elizabethan gentleman's house, but Sanderson Miller extensively re-modelled them in Gothic Revival style, stands below the site of the original Stoneleigh Abbey grange and is still a private house. It was occupied by Douglas Haig before he became Commander in Chief on the Western Front in the First World War. The Grange is now owned by David Richards, former chairman of Aston Martin.\n\nAt the top of the ridge adjoining the hamlet of Edgehill is the Octagonal Tower, a folly designed by Sanderson Miller as a scale model of a tower at Warwick Castle. The folly has been a pub since it was built, named in 1817 as the Inniskilling Dragoon, but now the Castle Inn. It is said to stand on the site of another grange complex, known as Ratley Grange, also held by Stoneleigh Abbey.\n\nRadway has a cricket club.\n\n"}
{"id": "2314721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314721", "title": "Wormwood (Moe album)", "text": "Wormwood (Moe album)\n\nWormwood is an album by Moe. It was released on February 4, 2003 by Fatboy Records.\n\nWormwood is considered an interesting album for the way it was recorded. The band took live recordings of their new songs from various Summer 2002 shows onward and interlaced them with studio takes. For this reason, there are sometimes cheers of the crowd evident (such as during the beginning of Bullet). Also, the album can be viewed as one seamless track, with the instrumental tracks bridging the gaps (segues) into the next.\n\n2004 Jammy Award winner for best studio album.\n\n\nmoe.:<br>\n<br>\nBecca Childs Derhak: art direction, cover design <br>\nScott Elmquist: photography <br>\nBill Emmons: engineer, mixing <br>\nFred Kevorkian: mastering <br>\nMike Lapierre: assistant engineer\n"}
{"id": "2314722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314722", "title": "Them Bones", "text": "Them Bones\n\n\"Them Bones\" is a song by the American rock band Alice in Chains. It is the opening track and the second single from their second album, \"Dirt\" (1992). The song was also included on the compilation albums \"\" (1999), \"Music Bank\" (1999), \"Greatest Hits\" (2001), \"The Essential Alice in Chains\" (2006). A live performance of the song is included on their live album entitled \"Live\" (2000).\n\nThe song was written by guitarist Jerry Cantrell. The chromatic riff is played in a time signature of —except for the chorus, which is in . When discussing the use of odd time signatures in a 1998 interview with \"Guitar World\", Cantrell said:\n\"I really don't know where that comes from; it just comes naturally to me. I could sit down and figure it out, but what's the use? Off-time stuff is just more exciting — it takes people by surprise when you shift gears like that before they even know what the hell hit 'em. It's also effective when you slow something down and then slam 'em into the dash. A lot of Alice stuff is written that way — 'Them Bones' is a great off-time song.\"\n\nJerry Cantrell said of the song in a 1993 interview with \"RIP Magazine\":\nWe [Alice in Chains] definitely have a very sarcastic sense of humor even toward ourselves. You have to be able to laugh at yourself. The music is a way for us to let some serious things out because we're not really talkative people. It's hard for a lot of people to talk about emotions that are really deep pain and hurt and shit like that. \"\"Them Bones\"\" is pretty cut and dried. It's a little sarcastic, but it's pretty much about dealing with your mortality and life. Everybody's going to die someday. Instead of being afraid of it, that's the way it is: so enjoy the time you've got. Live as much as you can, have as much fun as possible. Face your fear and live. I had family members die at a fairly early age; so I've always had kind of a phobia about it. Death freaks me out. I think it freaks a lot of people out. It's the end of life, depending on your views. It's a pretty scary thing. \"\"Them Bones\"\" is trying to put that thought to rest. Use what you have left, and use it well.\nIn the liner notes of 1999's \"Music Bank\" box set collection, Cantrell said of the song:\n\"I was just thinking about mortality, that one of these days we'll end up a pile of bones. It's a thought for every human being, whether you believe in an after-life or that when we die, that's it. The thought that all the beautiful things and knowledge and experiences you've been through just end when you end scares me, the thought that when you close your eyes for good, it's gone forever.\"\n\n\"Them Bones\" was released as a single in 1992 and peaked at number 24 on the \"Billboard\" Mainstream Rock Tracks chart and at number 30 on the \"Billboard\" Modern Rock Tracks chart. The UK single was released in March 1993. \"Them Bones\" reached the top 30 in the UK and Ireland.\n\n\"Them Bones\" is one of the band's most well known songs. Ned Raggett of Allmusic called the song \"a brief, tightly wound explosion of sheer, inescapable riff power, focused and relentless\" and added that \"having made its point in two and a half minutes it stops — not a note is wasted.\"\n\nThe music video for \"Them Bones\" was released in 1992 and was directed by Rocky Schenck, who had previously directed the \"We Die Young\" music video for the band, and who would later direct the music videos for \"What the Hell Have I\" and \"Grind.\" The video is available on the home video release \"\". The video was also featured on an episode of \"Beavis and Butt-head\" (the episode \"Sick\" in 1993) where Butt-head claims that \"this is the coolest video I've ever seen.\"\n\nThe video shows the band playing in a cavern, apparently underground. In front of the band is a puddle, in which can be seen Layne Staley singing or various animals eating or fighting with each other and a child being born, which corresponds with the lyrics \"Some say / We're born into the grave.\"\n\nIn 2006, Swedish death metal band Grave covered the song which appears on their seventh album, \"As Rapture Comes\". In 2009, American deathcore band Suicide Silence covered the song which appears as a bonus track on the iTunes special edition of their second album, \"No Time to Bleed\". An EP released in 2010 by the German black metal band Secrets of the Moon also features a cover version. Alex De Rosso did a cover on his 2013 album, \"Lions & Lambs\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314742", "title": "Hate to Feel", "text": "Hate to Feel\n\n\"Hate to Feel\" is the tenth track on American rock band Alice in Chains' album \"Dirt\" (1992). The song was included on the compilation albums \"Music Bank\" (1999) and \"The Essential Alice in Chains\". It has also been the ninth track on later prints of the album and eleventh on others. Some editions of \"Dirt\" may merge this song with the then-unlisted 43-second track \"Iron Gland\".\n\nIn the liner notes of 1999's \"Music Bank\" box set collection, guitarist Jerry Cantrell said of the song:\nAgain, a lot of pride in seeing Layne grow as a guitarist and songwriter to create something so heavy. He's always been so honest in his songs, which is like all of us. We don't bullshit in our music, we always pushed each other to say it as it needed to be said. We've always been \"fully\" for letting it all out.\n\nNed Raggett of Allmusic said that the song \"shows Alice in Chains in woozy, murkily descending riff mode, taking its time to grind down into the ground\" and added, \"The near-constant theme on \"Dirt\" about drugs, specifically heroin, doesn't disappear here: 'Used to be curious, now the shit's sustenance'.\"\n\nA live performance of \"Hate to Feel\" can be found on the \"Angry Chair\" single.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314743", "title": "Meeting and convention planner", "text": "Meeting and convention planner\n\nA meeting and convention planner supervises and coordinates the strategic, operational and logistical activities necessary for the production of events. The planner can be employed or hired ad hoc by corporations, associations, governments, and other organizations.\n\n\nPlanners can, but need not, be certified or hold designations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314753", "title": "Andaaz", "text": "Andaaz\n\nAndaaz () is a 2003 Indian romantic musical film directed by Raj Kanwar and produced by Suneel Darshan. It stars Akshay Kumar, Miss Universe 2000 Lara Dutta and Miss World 2000 Priyanka Chopra. Written by Robin Bhatt, Shyam Goel and Jainendra Jain, the film revolves around an Air Force officer Raj (Kumar) whose reluctance to confess his love to his best friend Kajal (Dutta) affects both their lives and Raj's relationship with his girlfriend Jiya (Chopra). It features Dutta and Chopra in their debut Bollywood film roles.\n\nShot extensively in Cape Town, South Africa, \"Andaaz\"s promotion centered around it being the acting debut of two beauty queens together for the first time, which Darshan considered was the film's main selling point. Its music was composed by Nadeem–Shravan, with lyrics written by Sameer. The soundtrack was a huge success, selling 2.5 million units becoming the second best-selling Bollywood soundtrack of the year.\n\n\"Andaaz\" was released in cinemas on 23 May 2003. The film was a box-office success, grossing 288 million at the box-office against a budget of 80 million. It was the ninth-highest-grossing Indian film of the year. At the 49th Filmfare Awards, it received five nominations, including Best Supporting Actress for Chopra, and won the Best Female Debut for Dutta and Chopra. Both actresses were also nominated for the Screen Award for Best Female Debut, which Dutta won.\n\nRaj Malhotra lives with his elder brother Rohit, his sister-in-law Kiran, and his niece. After an accident fractures his leg, he is unable to walk for some time, and for psychological reasons, he cannot walk even after the fracture heals. When the Malhotras move to Dehradun, Raj befriends his family's new neighbour, the tomboy Kajal, as both share a common passion for aeroplanes. With Kajal's encouragement, Raj regains the ability to walk. Years later, the two continue to be close friends, and everyone expects them to marry soon. Raj secretly loves Kajal and is waiting for the right time to propose to her, but she sees him only as her best friend.\n\nRaj is recruited by the Indian Air Force and spends a year and a half in training. After this is over, he rushes to Kajal to propose to her, only to discover that she is in love with multimillionaire businessman, Karan Singhania. Raj still does not reveal his true feelings to Kajal, telling her that Karan is the best life partner for her. Kajal and Karan marry; during the reception party, Kajal learns of Raj's feelings for her. Hurt by the fact that she did not recognise Raj's feelings for her despite being his best friend, Kajal asks him to move on with his life. The Malhotras move to Nainital, and Raj relocates to Cape Town, South Africa for further training.\n\nDuring a visit to a club, Raj meets the vivacious and fun-loving Jiya. She falls in love with Raj because of his clean personality, but he is unable to forget Kajal. After completing his training, Raj returns to India where he finds that Jiya has already arrived and is living as a paying guest with his family. Jiya makes several attempts to impress Raj, but he still does not fall for her. During Karva Chauth, Jiya performs the rituals that a wife typically does for a husband, but Raj becomes angry and asks Jiya to leave. After Raj's family reveals that they had hoped Raj would marry Jiya, he finally gives in and decides to marry her and move on with his life.\n\nWhile visiting Jiya's family, Raj learns that Kajal is Jiya's sister-in-law. It is revealed that Kajal has been widowed by a helicopter crash which killed Karan, but which she survived. Kajal blames herself for Karan's death and even attempts suicide. Raj helps Kajal recover from her depression, which enables her to face life again. Jiya notices their increasing closeness and suggests to her father that Kajal is married off. At Raj and Jiya's engagement, Kajal learns that her family has arranged an engagement for her as well. Raj asks Kajal not to allow her to be married off against her will. An angry Jiya says that Raj and Kajal will never be able to forget their past love for each other, despite the fact that Raj is supposed to be marrying her. An irate Raj places the wedding \"sindoor\" on Kajal's head, indicating he has now married Kajal and no-one has the right to question their relationship. An emotional Jiya reveals that she wanted Raj and Kajal to accept their feelings for each other in front of the world. The film ends with Jiya participating in Raj and Kajal's wedding ceremony.\n\nThe cast is listed below:\n\nWhen director Raj Kanwar approached Suneel Darshan with the idea for \"Andaaz\", Darshan liked the concept and agreed to produce the film under his production company Shree Krishna International despite the poor performance of Kanwar's previous three films. Robin Bhatt, Shyam Goel and Jainendra Jain had written the film's screenplay. Darshan cast his frequent actor Akshay Kumar in the lead role and due to budget constraints, Darshan wished to cast two new actresses opposite Kumar. He and Kanwar ultimately decided upon Miss Universe 2000 Lara Dutta and Miss World 2000 Priyanka Chopra as the most suitable actresses for the roles. The casting of the titleholders of such major beauty pageants was seen as an excellent move in the media, and Darshan has said that he chose to cast the two beauty queens together in their film debut for the first time in the history of cinema to give the film a unique selling point. \"Andaaz\" was the first of many collaborations between Kumar and the actresses. Dutta would later appear in seven more films with Kumar—Chopra in three.\n\nKumar had wanted to become an air force pilot in real life, so he was excited to play one in the film saying that it helped him to fulfill a personal fantasy. Concerning his preparations for the role of Raj, he added: \"I have done everything according to what the role requires. I have made sure I looked like an air force officer.\" Dutta praised the writing of her character for being \"superbly defined\" and said that she had an \"amazing experience\" working on the film. According to Dutta, her role as the tomboy Kajal revealed a new and very private side of her on screen. To differentiate Kajal from Jiya, the creators chose Mona Ghosh Shetty to dub Kajal's lines, which gave her a very high-pitched voice. Chopra identified closely with her character, saying that \"just like her name, [Jiya] is full of beans and loves life. She comes across as very modern, but in her heart, she is a traditional Indian girl.\" About the film more broadly, Chopra said, \"There is nothing \"hatke\" [different] about it. But it is the way the romantic scenes have been treated, and the tiny details, that make it special.\" \"Andaaz\" was supposed to be the actress's debut Bollywood film, but her other film, \"\", ended up being released one month before it. However, Chopra was still credited as a debutant in the opening credits of \"Andaaz\". Dutta and Chopra's costumes were designed by Manish Malhotra. \n\nThe art direction and cinematography were led by Jeena Matthew and Ishwar R Bidri, respectively. Principal photography lasted three months, with extensive shooting in Cape Town, South Africa. The South African government provided MiGs and other jets for filming, and the crew were allowed to use footage from a South African air show in the film. Raju Khan choreographed the musical sequences, with the exception of one song which was choreographed by Baba Yadav. While shooting one of the musical sequences on a rocky shore in Cape Town, Kumar and Dutta were pulled under the waves. Kumar rescued Dutta by pulling her ashore. Naresh Sharma composed the background score and editing was done by Sanjay Sankla. According to Kumar, \"Andaaz\"s production was completed faster than any of Darshan's previous films.\n\n\"Andaaz\"s soundtrack was composed by the music duo Nadeem–Shravan, with lyrics by Sameer Anjaan. Vocals on the album's eight tracks were performed by Kumar Sanu, Udit Narayan, Alka Yagnik, Sonu Nigam, Sapna Mukherjee, Kailash Kher, Babul Supriyo and Shaan. Released on 26 February 2003 at an event in Mumbai, it was the first album issued by Darshan's record label Shree Krishna Audio.\n\nThe film's soundtrack album received positive reviews from music critics. Bollywood Hungama praised it as \"a good album worth a buy\". The review in \"Glamsham\" magazine was enthusiastically positive: \"On the whole, the soundtrack of \"Andaaz\" showcases the marvelous and creative skills of the composer duo, Nadeem-Shravan. No doubt, some of the tracks will win awards in the future. The album has upmarket music. The whole content of the soundtrack is memorable and a gorgeous gift for the people who have an ear for rhythmical music.\" Planet Bollywood gave it a rating of 7.5 (out of 10) calling it \"good\" and wrote: \"the album has two or three excellent songs and another three good numbers and a couple of ordinary ones. Overall it's definitely worth a buy especially so for Nadeem-Shravan/Sameer and melody fans. It is better than most of their recent efforts\".\n\nThe music topped charts on a number of platforms in India. The album was the second best-selling Bollywood soundtrack of the year, with 2.5 million units sold according to Box Office India.\n\nThe acting debuts of the former Miss Universe and Miss World, and their pairings with Kumar, were much-anticipated in the lead-up to \"Andaaz\"'s release. This joint debut of the two beauty queens in a film for the first time was the film's main marketing point. The early success of the film's soundtrack also helped to promote the film, with song clips regularly appearing on television. Darshan reportedly spent 10 million on television advertisements to promote the film. Its release was scheduled for 18 April 2003 but was later postponed because of the 2003 Bollywood Producers strike. The film was ultimately released on 23 May 2003 on 300 screens.\n\nPrior to \"Andaaz\", no Bollywood films released in 2003 had achieved much box office success. Expectations for \"Andaaz\" were low, as films with bigger stars were failing to sell. However, the film opened to huge response at the box office, with \"The Times of India\" reporting on opening week that it \"could be the first bona fide all-India hit\" of the year. According to Box Office India, the film had an excellent opening; it collected 14.4 million on its opening day, with an opening domestic weekend of 43.9 million. Worldwide, the film grossed 83.8 million on its opening weekend. Due to overwhelming demand, distributors were forced to ask Darshan for additional prints of the film. The film continued to perform well throughout the week, earning 69.7 million at domestic box offices, and over 131 million worldwide, in its first week. In total, the film grossed over 253 million in domestic sales and over 35 million in overseas markets for a worldwide gross of over 288 million against a budget of 80 million, a commercial success. The film also celebrated silver jubilee by remaining in theaters for over 100 days. Bollywood Hungama deemed it the \"first universal hit of the year\". It was the ninth-highest-grossing Indian film of the year.\n\n\"Andaaz\" was released on DVD on 1 September 2003 across all regions in an NTSC-format single disc by Tip Top Video. The VCD version was released at the same time. Two more DVD versions were released on 13 September 2005 and 26 January 2007 by Shree Krishna International and Tips Films Music, respectively. A high-definition DVD version, with audio and video digitally restored, was later released by Shemaroo Entertainment. Even after \"Andaaz\"s box office success, as he had with his previous works, Darshan refused to sell the film's television rights. The collective value of his films' unsold satellite rights was estimated to be 1 billion. Darshan finally sold the rights to his films to Zee in 2017, and \"Andaaz\" premiered on Zee Cinema on 9 September 2017, 14 years after its theatrical release. The film's premier garnered high ratings for the network.\n\n\"Hindustan Times\" rated the film at 3 out of 5, calling it a \"brightly wrapped\" love triangle, writing that \"with two former beauty queens gunning to serve a hotter peekaboo plethora, you can't possibly complain over timepass with \"Andaaz\".\" Taran Adarsh from Bollywood Hungama noted that the performances of the newcomers, the music, the \"engaging\" second half and the \"brilliant climax\" were the film's highlights. Although he felt that the \"predictable\" first half diluted the impact of the film to an extent. Praising the cast, Adarsh felt that the newcomers \"stole the show\" and Kumar did \"justice to his role\", writing \"Lara Dutta is impressive. She handles both the emotional as well as chirpy scenes with amazing ease. Priyanka Chopra is the one to watch out for. Combining talent with sex appeal, she emotes the various shades of her character with versatility.\" \"Kunal Shah of Sify described the film as \"a routine love story with a set formula\" and \"a classic example of old wine in [\"sic\"] new bottle\". He praised the music, as well as Dutta's and Chopra's performances, writing: \"Lara Dutta looks good in some scenes while looks very plain in others. No doubt she acts well. However, Priyanka is just wonderful: not only does she have the glamour but also all the qualities to be a star.\" However, he was critical of the formulaic script and Kumar's performance, writing that the actor \"lacks the necessary emotions and fails miserably to get any kind of sympathy from the audience.\" A review in Rediff.com described the film as a \"flight to boredom\" writing, \"Andaaz just forgot a key ingredient for an entertaining film—the script.\"\n\nAfter the success of \"Andaaz\", the pairing of Chopra and Kumar proved to be popular and successful. The pair appeared in three more films: \"Mujhse Shaadi Karogi\" (2004), \"Aitraaz\" (2004) and \"\" (2005). All of their collaborations were box office successes. Despite these successes, the pair stopped signing films. The pair came close to star in two films: \"Barsaat\" (2005) and \"Namastey London\" (2007). However, Kumar opted out of the former after filming some scenes while Chopra was removed from the latter at the last minute. Following the release of their last film together, several attempts have been made by different filmmakers to bring the pair again in films but the attempts never came to fruition.\n\n\"Andaaz\" was one of the early successes of Dutta and Chopra's careers. Dutta went on to have a decent career in Bollywood and became a popular actress. Chopra would go on to become one of the most popular and highest-paid actresses in Bollywood while establishing herself as a leading actress of Indian cinema. She would later go on to work in Hollywood and achieve international stardom.\n\n"}
{"id": "2314766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314766", "title": "Down in a Hole", "text": "Down in a Hole\n\n\"Down in a Hole\" is a power ballad by Alice in Chains, and the fifth and last single from their album \"Dirt\" (1992). It is the twelfth song on most pressings of the album and fourth or eleventh on others. The song was written by guitarist and vocalist Jerry Cantrell for his then-girlfriend, Courtney Clarke. The single spent 21 weeks on Billboard's Mainstream Rock Tracks and peaked at No. 10. The song was included on the compilation albums \"\" (1999) and \"Music Bank\" (1999). An acoustic version performed on Alice in Chains' \"MTV Unplugged\" in 1996 was released in a live album and DVD.\n\nSongwriter and guitarist Jerry Cantrell was at first hesitant to present the song to the band, feeling that the song was too soft, but after a positive response from the band, they followed through and recorded it. The composition is written in A minor, utilizing Dorian mode, and is centered mainly around Ab minor - Gb major - Db major chord progression, with Layne Staley's and Jerry Cantrell's vocal parts intricately harmonizing.\n\nJerry Cantrell wrote the song for his then-girlfriend, Courtney Clarke. In the liner notes of 1999's \"Music Bank\" box set collection, Cantrell said of the song:\n[\"Down in a Hole\"]'s in my top three, personally. It's to my long-time love. It's the reality of my life, the path I've chosen and in a weird way it kind of foretold where we are right now. It's hard for us to both understand...that this life is not conducive to much success with long-term relationships.\n\n\"Down in a Hole\" was released as a single in 1993. \"Down in a Hole\" peaked at number ten on the \"Billboard\" Mainstream Rock Tracks chart. The UK single was released in October 1993. \"Down in a Hole\" reached the top 40 in the UK and the top 30 in Ireland.\n\nNed Raggett of Allmusic said that \"Staley's...half-strangled but still amazingly evocative performance...is heartfelt and almost yearning\" and that \"the end result feels like a ruined man looking for some sort of comfort.\" \n\nStereogum said of the song; \"Down In A Hole\" is an anthem of loss, revulsion, and depression. But it really is an anthem first and foremost. The verses build slowly to a soaring chorus with an irrepressible melody. Staley's pained howl guides the song, but its power derives from Cantrell's terrific harmonies, which give the piece heft and also a sense of unease.\"\n\n\"Down in a Hole\" became one of the five video-singles from the album \"Dirt\". The music video was released in 1993 and was directed by Nigel Dick. The video is available on the home video release \"\". Bassist Mike Inez appears in the video although the original track was recorded with original member Mike Starr.\n\nAlice in Chains performed the song live for the first time on October 5, 1992 at the Coca-Cola Starplex in Dallas, Texas.\n\nAlice in Chains performed an acoustic version of \"Down in a Hole\" for its appearance on \"MTV Unplugged\" in 1996, and the song was included on the \"Unplugged\" live album and home video release.\n\nAnother acoustic live version of \"Down in a Hole\" featuring new vocalist William DuVall on lead vocals is included on the Japanese version of \"Black Gives Way to Blue\" (2009) as a bonus track.\n\nThe song was covered by professional baseball player Bronson Arroyo on his 2005 album, \"Covering the Bases\", which lists the song as \"Down in the Hole\".\n\nFuel acoustically covered the song in 2007 on AM Radio.\n\nOn his low-key 2007 tour—in support of his album \"Easy Tiger\", Ryan Adams covered the song live with his band, The Cardinals. A cover of the song is also featured on Adams' 2007 EP \"Follow the Lights\".\n\nThe Vitamin String Quartet recorded an instrumental version of the song for their 2009 album \"\"The String Quartet Tribute to Alice in Chains\"\".\nThe Christian metal band Demon Hunter perform an acoustic version of the song on the deluxe edition of their 2011 album The World Is a Thorn.\n\nSwedish metal band In Flames covered the song on their covers EP, \"\"Down, Wicked & No Good\"\", released in November 2017.\n\n\"Down in a Hole\" was released as downloadable content for the music video game \"Rocksmith\" on December 12, 2017, as part of Alice In Chains Song Pack II, which also includes the songs \"Rooster\", \"No Excuses\", \"Nutshell\" and \"Heaven Beside You\".\n\nThe song is also available for DLC for the Xbox One and PlayStation 4 game Rock Band 4.\n\nCD Single (659751-2)\n\n12\" Single (659751-6)\n\nSide 1\nSide 2\n\n7\" Single (659751-7)\n\nSide 1\nSide 2\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314769", "title": "Michel de Castelnau", "text": "Michel de Castelnau\n\nMichel de Castelnau, Sieur de la Mauvissière (c. 1520–1592), French soldier and diplomat, ambassador to Queen Elizabeth. His memoirs, covering the period between 1559 and 1570, are considered a more reliable source for the period than many others.\n\nHe was born in La Mauvissière (now part of Neuvy-le-Roi, Indre-et-Loire), Touraine about 1520. He was one of a large family of children, and his grandfather, Pierre de Castelnau, was Equerry (Master of the Horse) to Louis XII. \n\nEndowed with a clear and penetrating intellect and remarkable strength of memory, he received a careful education, capped off with travels in Italy and a long stay at Rome. He then spent some time in Malta and afterwards entered the army. His first acquaintance with war was in the campaigns of the French in Italy. His abilities and his courage won him the friendship and protection of the Charles, Cardinal of Lorraine, who took him into his service. \n\nIn 1557 a command in the navy was given to him, and the cardinal proposed to get him knighted. This, however, he declined, and then rejoined the French army in Picardy. Various delicate missions requiring tact and discretion were entrusted to him by the Constable, Anne de Montmorency, and these he discharged so satisfactorily that he was sent by the king, Henry II, to Scotland with dispatches for Mary, Queen of Scots, who was betrothed to the Dauphin (afterwards Francis II). \n\nFrom Scotland he passed into England in 1559, and treated with Queen Elizabeth respecting her claims on Calais, a settlement of which was effected at the congress of Le Cateau-Cambrésis. He was next sent as ambassador to the princes of Germany, for the purpose of prevailing upon them to withdraw their favor from the Protestants. This embassy was followed by missions to Margaret of Austria, governess of the Netherlands, to Savoy, and then to Rome, to ascertain the views of Pope Paul IV in regard to France. Paul having died just before his arrival, Castelnau used his influence in favor of the election of Pius IV. Returning to France, he once more entered the navy, and served under his former patron. It was his good fortune, at Nantes, to discover the earliest symptoms of the Conspiracy of Amboise, which he immediately reported to the government.\n\nAfter the death of Francis II in December 1560, he accompanied the queen, Mary Stuart, to Scotland, and remained with her a year, during which time he made several journeys into England in an attempt to bring about a reconciliation between Mary and Queen Elizabeth. The wise and moderate counsel that he offered to the former were unheeded. \n\nIn 1562, as a consequence of the civil war in France, he returned there. He was employed against the Protestants in Brittany, was taken prisoner in an engagement with them and sent to Havre, but was soon after exchanged. In the midst of the excited passions of his countrymen, Castelnau, who was a sincere Roman Catholic, maintained a wise self-control and moderation, and by his counsels rendered valuable service to the government. He served at the siege of Rouen, distinguished himself at the battle of Dreux, took Tancarville, and contributed in 1563 to the recapture of Havre from the English.\n\nDuring the next ten years Castelnau was employed in various important missions: first to Queen Elizabeth to negotiate a peace; next to the Duke of Alba, the new governor of the Netherlands. On this occasion he discovered the project formed by the Prince of Condé and Admiral Coligny to seize and carry off the royal family at Monceaux (1567). After the battle of St. Denis he was again sent to Germany to solicit aid against the Protestants; and on his return he was rewarded for his services with the post of governor of Saint-Dizier and a company of orderlies. \n\nAt the head of his company he took part in the battles of Jarnac and Moncontour. In 1572 he was sent to England by Charles IX to allay the excitement created by the St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre, and the same year he was sent to Germany and Switzerland. Two years later he was reappointed by Henry III ambassador to Queen Elizabeth, and he remained at her court for ten years. During this period he used his influence to promote the marriage of the queen with the Duke of Alençon, with a view especially to strengthen and maintain the alliance of the two countries. But Elizabeth made so many promises only to break them that at last he refused to accept them or communicate them to his government.\n\nOn his return to France he found that his château of La Mauvissière had been destroyed in the civil war; and as he refused to recognize the authority of the League, the Duke of Guise deprived him of the governorship of Saint-Dizier. He was thus brought almost to a state of destitution. But on the accession of Henry IV, the king, who knew his worth, and was confident that although he was a Catholic he might rely on his fidelity, gave him a command in the army, and entrusted him with various confidential missions.\n\nCastelnau died at Joinville in 1592. His \"Mémoires\" rank very high among the original authorities for the period they cover, the eleven years between 1559 and 1570. They were written during his last embassy in England for the benefit of his son; and they possess the merits of clearness, veracity and impartiality. They were first printed in 1621; again, with additions by Le Laboreur, in 2 vols. folio, in 1659; and a third time, still further enlarged by Jean Godefroy, 3 vols. folio, in 1731. Castelnau translated into French the Latin work of Ramus, \"On the Manners and Customs of the Ancient Gauls\". Various letters of his are preserved in the Cottonian and Harleian collections in the British Museum.\n\nHis grandson, Jacques de Castelnau (1620–1658), distinguished himself in the war against Austria and Spain during the ministries of Richelieu and Mazarin, and died a Marshal of France.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314771", "title": "Erik Lee Preminger", "text": "Erik Lee Preminger\n\nErik Lee Preminger (born December 11, 1944 in New York City) is an American writer and actor. He has also been known as Erik Kirkland, Erik de Diego, Erik Lee, and Eric Preminger.\n\nHis birth name was Eric Lee Kirkland or Erik Lee Kirkland. His true paternity was not known to him until he was an adult. He was named by his mother Gypsy Rose Lee and her then-husband, Alexander Kirkland. His father turned out to be film director Otto Preminger. He was the only nephew of actress June Havoc, Gypsy Rose Lee's younger sister. In 1967, he married flight attendant Barbara van Nattem, but the marriage ended in divorce.\n\nHe wrote an autobiography about his relationship with his mother: \"Gypsy & Me: At Home and on the Road with Gypsy Rose Lee\" (Little, Brown - 1984, ) which was later re-issued as \"My G-String Mother: At Home and Backstage With Gypsy Rose Lee\" ().\n\n"}
{"id": "2314779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314779", "title": "Nur Mountains", "text": "Nur Mountains\n\nThe Nur Mountains (, \"Mountains of Holy Light\"), formerly known as Alma-Dağ, the ancient Amanus (), medieval Black Mountain or Arabic Jabal al-Lukkam, is a mountain range in the Hatay Province of south-central Turkey, which runs roughly parallel to the Gulf of İskenderun.\n\nThe range reaches a maximum elevation of and divides the coastal region of Cilicia from Antioch and inland Syria. The highest peak is Bozdağ Dağı. A major pass through the mountains known as the Belen Pass (Syrian Gates) is located near the town of Belen. Another pass known as the Amanic Gates (Bahçe Pass) lies farther north.\n\nThe specific term \"Mount Amanus\" is referred to by ancient writers. In the Middle Ages, it was called the Black Mountain in Byzantine Greek, Armenian, Syriac and Latin. There were numerous Armenian, Melkite, Jacobite, Georgian, and Catholic monasteries and hermits in the mountains. On account of this, it was called \"Gâvur Dağ\" (Mount of Infidels) by the Turks. In 1028, the Emperor Romanos III, disturbed by the number of \"heretical\" (i.e., Syriac and Armenian) monks in the Black Mountain, tried to draft them for his campaign against Aleppo. In 1066, the monasteries were devastated by Afshin Bey. In 1098, the monks gave provisions to the Crusader army besieging Antioch.\n\n"}
{"id": "2314792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314792", "title": "Entreat", "text": "Entreat\n\nEntreat is a live album by British alternative rock band The Cure, recorded at London's Wembley Arena in July 1989. It consists entirely of songs performed from the band's 1989 record \"Disintegration\"; while they were on their international Prayer tour. \"Entreat\" was distributed exclusively in France as a promotional tool. When bootlegs began to surface, however, the album was given a limited European release.\n\n\"Entreat\" was also given away free by HMV stores in the UK and Ireland to customers who purchased two CDs from the band's back catalogue.\n\nThe last two tracks were released in 1989 as B-sides to the US version of \"Lullaby\". \"Fascination Street\", \"Last Dance\", \"Prayers For Rain\", and \"Disintegration\" were also included as B-sides on the \"Pictures of You\" CD single.\n\nThe re-release of \"Disintegration\" in 2010 featured a remastered and remixed version of \"Entreat\", entitled \"Entreat Plus\" because it featured all twelve songs from the album, including the four excluded from the original. It was the first time the album was released worldwide, though it had already been released on CD before.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314798", "title": "Meskwaki", "text": "Meskwaki\n\nThe Meskwaki (sometimes spelled Mesquaki) are a Native American people often known by Western society as the Fox tribe. They have been closely linked to the Sauk people of the same language family. In the Meskwaki language, the Meskwaki call themselves \"\", which means \"the Red-Earths\", related to their creation story. Historically their homelands were in the Great Lakes region. The tribe coalesced in the St. Lawrence River Valley in present-day Ontario, Canada. Under French colonial pressures, it migrated to the southern side of the Great Lakes to territory that much later was organized by European Americans as the states of Michigan, Wisconsin, Illinois, and Iowa.\n\nThe Meskwaki suffered damaging wars with French and their Native American allies in the early 18th century, with one in 1730 decimating the tribe. Euro-American colonization and settlement proceeded in the United States during the 19th century and forced the Meskwaki/Fox south and west into the tall grass prairie in the American Midwest. In 1851 the Iowa state legislature passed an unusual act to allow the Fox to buy land and stay in the state. Other Sac and Fox were removed to Indian territory in what became Kansas, Oklahoma and Nebraska. In the 21st century, two federally recognized tribes of \"Sac and Fox\" have reservations, and one has a settlement.\n\nThe name is derived from the Meskwaki creation myth, in which their culture hero, \"Wisaka\", created the first humans out of red clay. They called themselves \"\" in Meskwaki, meaning \"the Red-Earths\".\n\nThe name \"Fox\" later was derived from a French mistake during the colonial era: hearing a group of Indians identify as \"Fox\", the French applied what was a clan name to the entire tribe who spoke the same language, calling them \"les Renards.\" Later the English and Anglo-Americans adopted the French name, using its translation in English as \"Fox.\" This name was also used officially by the United States government from the 19th century.\n\nHistorically the Meskwaki used Triodanis perfoliata as an emetic in tribal ceremonies to make one \"sick all day long.\" They traditionally smoked it at purification and other spiritual rituals. They also smudge Symphyotrichum novae-angliae and use it to revive unconscious people, They also used Agastache scrophulariifolia, an infusion of the root being used as a diuretic, and also used a compound of the plant heads medicinally. They eat the fruits of Viburnum prunifolium raw, and also cook them into a jam. They make the flowers of Solidago rigida into a lotion and use them on bee stings and for swollen faces.\n\nMeskwaki are of Algonquian origin from the prehistoric Woodland period culture area. The Meskwaki language is a dialect of the language spoken by the Sauk and Kickapoo, within the Algonquian languages family. This broad group includes many tribes on the Atlantic Coast and around the Great Lakes.\n\nThe Meskwaki and Sauk peoples are two distinct tribal groups. Linguistic and cultural connections between the two tribes have made them often associated in history. Under US government recognition treaties, officials treat the Sac (anglicized \"Sauk\" term) and Meskwaki as a single political unit, despite their distinct identities.\n\nHistorically the Meskwaki lived along the Saint Lawrence River in present-day Ontario, northeast of Lake Ontario. The tribe may have numbered as many as 10,000, but years of war with the Huron, whom French colonial agents supplied with arms, and exposure to new European infectious diseases reduced their numbers. In response to these pressures, the Meskwaki migrated west, first to present-day eastern Michigan in the area between Saginaw Bay and Detroit west of Lake Huron. Later they moved further west into what is now Wisconsin.\n\nThe Meskwaki gained control of the Fox River system in eastern and central Wisconsin. This river became vital for the colonial New France fur trade through the interior of North America between northern French Canada, via the Mississippi River, and the French ports on the Gulf of Mexico. As part of the Fox–Wisconsin Waterway, the Fox River allowed travel from Lake Michigan and the other Great Lakes via Green Bay to the Mississippi River system.\n\nAt first European contact in 1698, the French estimated the number of Meskwaki as about 6,500. By 1712, the number of Meskwaki had declined to 3,500.\n\nThe Meskwaki fought against the French, in what are called the Fox Wars, for more than three decades (1701–1742) to preserve their homelands. The Meskwaki resistance to French encroachment was highly effective. The King of France signed a decree commanding the complete extermination of the Meskwaki, the only edict of its kind in French history.\n\nThe First Fox War with the French lasted from 1712-1714. This first Fox War was purely economic in nature, as the French wanted rights to use the river system to gain access to the Mississippi. After the Second Fox War of 1728, the Meskwaki were reduced to some 1500 people. They found shelter with the Sac, but French competition carried to that tribe. In the Second Fox War, the French increased their pressure on the tribe to gain access to the Fox and Wolf rivers. Nine hundred Fox: 300 warriors and the remainder mostly women and children, tried to break out in Illinois to reach the English and Iroquois to the east, but a combined French and hundreds of allied Native American force greatly outnumbered them. On September 9, 1730, most of the Fox warriors were killed; many women and children were taken captive into Indian slavery or killed by the French allies.\n\nThe Sauk and Meskwaki allied in 1735 in defense against the French and their allied Indian tribes. Descendants spread through southern Wisconsin, and along the present-day Illinois-Iowa border. In 1829 the US government estimated there were 1,500 Meskwaki along with 5,500 Sac (or Sauk). Both tribes relocated southward from Wisconsin into Iowa, Illinois, and Missouri. There are accounts of Meskwaki as far south as Pike County, Illinois.\n\nThe Anishinaabe peoples called the Meskwaki \"\", meaning \"people on the other shore\", referring to their territories south of the Great Lakes. The French had adopted use of this name, and transliterated its spelling into their pronunciation system as \"Outagamie\". This name was later used by Americans for today's Outagamie County, Wisconsin.\n\nThe Meskwaki and Sac were forced to leave their territory by land-hungry American settlers. President Andrew Jackson signed the Indian Removal Act of 1830 passed by Congress, authorizing US removal of eastern American Indians to lands west of the Mississippi River. The act was directed mainly at the Five Civilized Tribes in the American Southeast, but it was also used against tribes in what was then called the Northwest as well, the area east of the Mississippi and north of the Ohio River.\n\nSome Meskwaki were involved with Sac warriors in the Black Hawk War over homelands in Illinois. After the Black Hawk War of 1832, the United States officially combined the two tribes into a single group known as the Sac & Fox Confederacy for treaty-making purposes. The United States persuaded the Sauk and Meskwaki to sell all their claims to land in Iowa in a treaty of October 1842. They moved to land west of a temporary line (Red Rock Line) in 1843. They were removed to a reservation in east central Kansas in 1845 via the Dragoon Trace. The Dakota Sioux called the Meskwaki who moved west of the Mississippi River the \"lost people\" because they had been forced to leave their homelands. Some Meskwaki remained hidden in Iowa, with others returning within a few years. Soon after, the U.S. government forced the Sauk to a reservation in Indian Territory present-day Oklahoma.\n\nIn 1851 the Iowa legislature passed an unprecedented act to allow the Meskwaki to buy land even though they had occupied it by right before and stay in the state. American Indians had not generally been permitted to do so, as the U.S. Government had said that tribal Indians were legally not US citizens. Only citizens could buy land.\n\nIn 1857, the Meskwaki purchased the first in Tama County; Tama was named for \"Taimah\", a Meskwaki chief of the early 19th century. Many Meskwaki later moved to the Meskwaki Settlement near Tama.\n\nThe U.S. government tried to force the tribe back to the Kansas reservation by withholding treaty-right annuities. Ten years later, the U.S. finally began paying annuities to the Meskwaki in Iowa. They recognized the Meskwaki as the \"Sac and Fox of the Mississippi in Iowa\". The jurisdictional status was unclear. The tribe had formal federal recognition with eligibility for Bureau of Indian Affairs services. It also had a continuing relationship with the State of Iowa due to the tribe's private ownership of land, which was held in trust by the governor.\n\nFor the next 30 years, the Meskwaki were virtually ignored by federal as well as state policies, which generally benefited them. Subsequently, they lived more independently than tribes confined to Indian reservations regulated by federal authority. To resolve this jurisdictional ambiguity, in 1896 the State of Iowa ceded to the Federal government all jurisdiction over the Meskwaki.\n\nBy 1910, the Sac and Meskwaki together totaled only about 1,000 people. During the 20th century, they began to recover their cultures. By the year 2000, their numbers had increased to nearly 4,000.\n\nIn World War II, Meskwaki men enlisted in the U.S. Army. Several served as code talkers, along with Navajo and some other speakers of uncommon languages. Meskwaki men used their language to keep Allied communications secret in actions against the Germans in North Africa. Twenty-seven Meskwaki men, then 16% of the Meskwaki population in Iowa, enlisted together in the U.S. Army in January 1941.\n\nThe modern Meskwaki Settlement in Tama County maintains a casino, tribal schools, tribal courts, and tribal police, and a public works department.\n\nToday the three federally recognized Sac and Fox tribes are:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314801", "title": "Anniemal", "text": "Anniemal\n\nAnniemal is the debut album by Norwegian singer Annie. It was first released by 679 Recordings in September 2004. Annie began recording music in 1999 with her boyfriend, Tore Kroknes, who died in 2001. She returned to recording later that year, collaborating with Richard X, Röyksopp, and Timo Kaukolampi.\n\nThe album combines Annie's thin, airy vocals with heavily layered beats. It is heavily influenced by 1980s dance-pop. Upon release, the album was successful in Norway. Blogs leaked tracks from \"Anniemal\" before it was released internationally, and publications from other countries soon praised the album for its blissful but melancholic sound.\n\nBefore releasing the album internationally in 2005, Annie's record label 679 Recordings was not confident in the album's ability to achieve commercial success overseas, so it did not heavily promote \"Anniemal\". The album eventually sold over 100,000 copies worldwide. It yielded four singles: \"Chewing Gum\", \"Heartbeat\", \"Happy Without You\", and \"Always Too Late\".\n\nIn the late 1990s, Annie held a monthly DJ night called Pop Till You Drop with friend Frøken Blytt in her hometown of Bergen, Norway. There she met producer Tore Kroknes, and the two began dating. Annie and Kroknes borrowed a small studio from downtempo duo Röyksopp to record her debut single \"The Greatest Hit\". The song, which uses a sample of Madonna's 1982 dance-pop single \"Everybody\", had a limited edition release in 1999. It became an underground hit at clubs in Norway and Britain, resulting in offers for record deals. The two recorded Annie's second single, titled \"I Will Get On\". She focused on vocals and melodies in music, and Kroknes concentrated on production, influenced by techno, disco and house music. As she began to work on her debut album, Kroknes became ill due to a heart defect. He died eighteen months later, in April 2001. Because of their plan to make the album together, Annie struggled with the idea of collaborating with anyone else and stopped work on it entirely.\nHalf a year passed before Annie returned to music. She asked Timo Kaukolampi from Finnish electronic group to DJ in Bergen. Starting with a song titled \"Kiss Me\", he had Annie contribute vocals to some of his tracks. She asked Kaukolampi to work on the album, and he produced nine of its songs for her. She could not afford to rent a studio, so Annie recorded demos by asking to use local studios at night or borrowing one owned by her friend. In late 2003, Annie signed with 679 Recordings, and the advance enabled her to complete the record. Producer Richard X, impressed with \"The Greatest Hit\", asked her to record vocals for his debut album \"Richard X Presents His X-Factor Vol. 1\". In exchange, he contributed \"Chewing Gum\" and \"Me Plus One\", both written with Hannah Robinson. Annie also worked with Röyksopp, who co-wrote and produced three songs on the album.\n\nRather than recording and selecting from a large number of songs, Annie stopped after around thirteen and compiled the track list. She selected the title \"Anniemal\" based on a suggestion by Kroknes. The two had planned on writing a song titled \"Anniemal\", so she chose it as the album's title because to her, \"it just made sense. Anniemal is simple and easy and good.\"\n\nWhen working on songs, Annie was involved with the whole recording and production processes, with a focus on the melodies. Annie stated that while promoting the album, she wanted to make sure people knew of her involvement in the album's writing and production. Of its twelve songs, ten were co-written by Annie. She stated that although singing songs written by someone else might not feel less personal, \"It's special to be on the stage and actually sing something you had done.\" With respect to her involvement in the songwriting process, Annie referred to herself as \"a bit of a control freak\".\n\nThe lyrics of \"Anniemal\" generally describe falling in or out of love. Annie's vocals are thin and breathy, working within a narrow vocal range. Reviewers noted a sense of melancholy in the vocals, suggesting that it could be attributed to the death of Kroknes. Annie acknowledged that none of the songs \"are directly happy\" and that some are \"happy but still a bit melancholy.\" She stated that she thought bittersweet melodies \"[sound] timeless…Very Scandinavian of me!\" She insisted, however, that she tries to write songs that are cheerful:\n\"For me, it's really easy to write depressive songs and that's why I never do that. I try to do songs that are a bit happier and a bit more complicated. I think there are too many songwriters writing sad, depressive songs, and I find it really boring, listening to music where people are just complaining. People should stop whining! I find it much more challenging to make songs that are pop songs, to make happy songs, and that's why I like to do it. I really like to make quite hopeful, happy music with a little bit of melancholy in it, with a little spice of melancholy.\"\n\"Anniemal\" focuses on heavily layered beats, with a strong 1980s influence. Annie was influenced by 1980s dance-pop, and on \"No Easy Love\", she includes a sample of Shakatak's 1982 song \"Easier Said Than Done\". Unlike many of her contemporaries, Annie avoids using an ironic or kitschy in her take on 1980s music. The songs' styles span genres including bubblegum pop, electro, disco, R&B, dance-pop, and rock. Annie's DJing experiences taught her about sound and production and affected her music. She stated that she wanted to make a pop album that would not quickly become dated, \"an album that you could listen to in five years and it wouldn't sound terrible.\" Annie considered excluding \"Greatest Hit\" from \"Anniemal\" to achieve this but ultimately included it because she felt it did not sound as if it were five years old.\n\n\"Anniemal\" received acclaim from music critics. At Metacritic, which assigns a normalised rating out of 100 to reviews from mainstream critics, the album received an average score of 81, based on 23 reviews, which indicates \"universal acclaim\". Scott Plagenhoef of \"Pitchfork\" referred to the songs as a \"dozen slices of stylish, sophisticated electro-pop, crisp tracks that move between the fizzy and the woozy, all anchored by Annie's breathy (sometimes almost muted) vocals.\" The site's endorsement was uncommon during a period when sites covering independent music were often dismissive of pop acts. In his review for AllMusic, Andy Kellman described \"Anniemal\" as \"cunning\" but also \"deeply affecting\". Dylan Hicks' review for \"The Village Voice\" stated that the blogosphere and British music press overrated \"Anniemal\" but that \"an overrated good record is still a good record\". Jody Rosen wrote for \"The New York Times\" that the album \"is a true album, strong from top to bottom\" and that \"there is charm in [Annie's] deadpan delivery, and her songwriting is full of the flair for melody for which Scandinavian pop is famous.\" Rosen also contributed a review to \"Slate\", where she noted that \"other singers have made whole careers out of singles less winning than 'Chewing Gum,' but [\"Anniemal\"] includes several other superb songs\". Kitty Empire's review in \"The Observer\" stated that the album's songs \"boast a winning combination of innocence and experience, breezy blonde melodies and just-so productions\". \"PopMatters\" Pierre Hamilton called \"Anniemal\" \"riveting\" for how \"it lacks the waxy sheen\" that listeners were used to hearing in manufactured pop music. However, a second \"PopMatters\" review, written by Rob Horning, criticised the album for using a similar formula to previous generations of electropop, adding that the result was \"exquisitely empty…enough to suck the feelings out of its listeners and leave them happily vacant, blank and unburdened.\" In his review for \"Billboard\" magazine, Michael Paoletta described the album as \"slinky and sensual, cool and classy, fun and fiery\" and labeled it \"one of the best debut albums of 2005.\"\n\nSeveral reviewers drew parallels between mainstream pop acts and Annie. \"Entertainment Weekly\"s Raymond Fiore called the album an \"addictive\" debut where Annie \"flaunts whispery Kylie cool and old-school-Madonna cheekiness\", but added that \"this sugar rush of an album proves…candy is best consumed in moderation.\" Hua Hsu of \"Blender\" magazine made a similar comparison, proclaiming Annie the \"Kylie Minogue hipsters don't have to feel guilty about liking\". Barry Walters of \"Rolling Stone\" touted how the album \"comes packed with both instant surface fizz and quirky finesse that sustains repeated listenings\", and ending his review, \"Goodbye, Britney. Hello, Annie.\"\n\n\"Pitchfork\" listed \"Anniemal\" at number fifteen on its list of the top fifty albums of 2004, stating that its strength was how \"its downtime feels so decidedly personal\", and the album appeared at number 167 on \"Pitchfork\"s list of the top 200 albums of the 2000s. The album was placed on \"Slant Magazine\"s list of best albums of the 2000s at number twenty-three. \"Rolling Stone\" ranked \"Anniemal\" number thirty-nine on its \"Top 50 Records of 2005\" list, exclaiming, \"Hail the Norse goddess.\"\n\n679 Recordings first released \"Anniemal\" in Norway on 28 September 2004. The album debuted at its peak of number six on the Norwegian Albums Chart. It won in the pop category at the 2005 Alarm Prizes, and Annie won for newcomer of the year. She again won for Newcomer of the Year at Spellemannprisen 2005, where she was invited to present an award.\n\nFollowing the album's Norwegian release, the songs were leaked onto the Internet, and some appeared on year-end best-of lists in other countries. Annie stated that she had not expected North American publications to show interest in the album because she thought \"the record sounds really European.\" The songs reached an international audience through online blogs, message boards, and file sharing networks before they had been released outside Scandinavia. This was more common for independent bands, and Annie became the first European dance-pop musician to cultivate an underground fanbase this way.\n\n679 released the album in the rest of Europe during early 2005 but was unsure how to categorise and market \"Anniemal\". It asked Annie about artists like Goldfrapp whose audiences 679 thought it should target. Uncertain that the album's Internet hype would significantly bolster the album's sales, the label did not heavily promote it. In support of the album, Annie opened for English alternative dance band Saint Etienne at several June 2005 gigs in the United Kingdom. Annie had never performed her songs live before the release of \"Anniemal\", so replicating the sound of more electronic songs like \"Chewing Gum\" became a long process. By September of that year, the album had sold 20,000 copies.\n\nFor its 7 June 2005 American release, \"Anniemal\" was distributed by Big Beat Records. To promote the album, Annie performed a set of DJing gigs in the United States for the Anniemix Tour during late June and early July 2005. She and Kaukolampi spun vinyl, and Annie performed her songs during the tour. Before the tour began, \"Anniemal\" was selling over one thousand copies per week in the US, and it went on to sell a total of 22 thousand copies there. Although it did not chart on the US \"Billboard\" 200, \"Anniemal\" reached number thirteen on the Top Electronic Albums chart. When released in Australia the following year, the album failed to chart on the ARIA Albums Chart but peaked at number twenty-five on the Dance Albums Chart. \"Anniemal\" sold a total of over 100,000 copies worldwide.\n\n\"Chewing Gum\" was released as the album's lead single in September 2004. Built around a retro beat by Richard X, the song uses chewing gum as a metaphor for men, with Annie singing \"You spit it out when all the flavor has gone/Wrap him round your finger like you're playing with gum\". It was the album's most commercially successful single, reaching number eight on the Norwegian Singles Chart and number twenty-five on the UK Singles Chart. It was also a critical success, listed thirty-first on the 2004 Pazz & Jop list, a survey of several hundred music critics conducted by Robert Christgau.\n\n\"Heartbeat\" was the second single released from \"Anniemal\". It narrates a night of going to clubs with friends, using a beat symbolizing a heartbeat, which doubles its tempo when Annie's persona catches the attention of her romantic interest on the dancefloor. Like \"Chewing Gum\", it received acclaim from music critics. It was one place behind \"Chewing Gum\" on the Pazz & Jop list, and \"Pitchfork\" named it the best single of 2004. However, it did not sell as well as \"Chewing Gum\", reaching number eighteen in Norway and fifty in the United Kingdom. \"Happy Without You\" and \"Always Too Late\" were released as the third and fourth singles in 2005, but neither charted.\n\nCredits adapted from \"Anniemal\" album liner notes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314814", "title": "Mae Marsh", "text": "Mae Marsh\n\nMae Marsh (born Mary Wayne Marsh; November 9, 1894 – February 13, 1968) was an American film actress with a career spanning over 50 years.\n\nMae Marsh was Mary Wayne Marsh born in Madrid, New Mexico on November 9, 1894. She was one of five children of Charles Marsh and Mary Wayne Marsh, and she attended Convent of the Sacred Heart School in Hollywood as well as public school.\n\nA frequently told story of Marsh's childhood is \"Her father, a railroad auditor, died when she was four. Her family moved to San Francisco, California, where her stepfather was killed in the great earthquake of 1906. Her great-aunt then took Mae and [her older sister] Marguerite to Los Angeles, hoping her show business background would open doors for jobs at various movie studios needing extras.\" However, her father, S. Charles Marsh, was a bartender, not a railroad auditor, and he was alive at least as late as June 1900, when Marsh was nearly six. Her stepfather, oil-field inspector William Hall, could not have been killed in the 1906 earthquake, as he was alive, listed in the 1910 census, living with her mother and sisters.\n\nMarsh worked as a salesgirl and loitered around the sets and locations while her older sister worked on a film, observing the progress of her sister’s performance. She first started as an extra in various movies, and played her first substantial role in the film \"Ramona\" (1910) at the age of 15.\n\n“I tagged my way into motion pictures,” Marsh recalled in \"The Silent Picture\". “I used to follow my sister Marguerite to the old Biograph studio and then, one great day, Mr. Griffith noticed me, put me in a picture and I had my chance. I love my work and though new and very wonderful interests have entered my life, I still love it and couldn’t think of giving it up.”\n\nMarsh worked with D.W. Griffith in small roles at Biograph when they were filming in California and in New York. Her big break came when Mary Pickford, resident star of the Biograph lot and a married woman at that time, refused to play the bare-legged, grass-skirted role of Lily-White in \"Man's Genesis\". Griffith announced that if Pickford would not play that part in \"Man’s Genesis\", she would not play the coveted title role in his next film, \"The Sands of Dee\". The other actresses stood behind Pickford, each refusing in turn to play the part, citing the same objection.\n\nYears later, Marsh recalled in an interview in \"The Silent Picture\": “...and he called rehearsal, and we were all there and he said, ‘Well now, Miss Marsh, you can rehearse this.’ And Mary Pickford said ‘What!’ and Mr. Griffith said ‘Yes, Mary Pickford, if you don’t do what I tell you I want you to do, I’m going to have someone else do \"The Sands of Dee\". Mary Pickford didn’t play \"Man’s Genesis\" so Mae can play \"The Sands of Dee\".’ Of course, I was thrilled, and she was very much hurt. And I thought, ‘Well it's all right with me. That is something.’ I was, you know, just a lamebrain.” \n\nWorking with Mack Sennett and D.W. Griffith, she was a prolific actress, sometimes appearing in eight movies per year and often paired with fellow Sennett protégé Robert Harron in romantic roles. In \"The Birth of a Nation\" (1915) she played the innocent sister who waits for her brothers to come home from war and who, in one of the film's most racially charged scenes, leaps to her death rather than submit to the lustful advances of Gus, the so-called \"renegade Negro\" who later is killed by the Ku Klux Klan. In \"Intolerance\" (1916) she plays the wife who has her baby taken away after her husband is imprisoned unjustly.\n\nShe signed a lucrative contract with Samuel Goldwyn worth $2,500 per week after \"Intolerance\", but none of the films she made with him were particularly successful. After her marriage to Lee Arms, a publicity agent for Goldwyn, in 1918, her film output decreased to about one per year.\n\nMarsh's last notable starring role was as a flapper for Griffith in \"The White Rose\" (1923) with Ivor Novello and Carol Dempster. She re-teamed with Novello for the film version of his hit stage play \"The Rat\" (1925).\n\nIn 1955, Marsh was awarded the George Eastman Award, given by George Eastman House for distinguished contribution to the art of film.\n\nMarsh returned from retirement to appear in sound films and played a role in Henry King’s remake of \"Over the Hill\" (1931). She gravitated toward character roles, and worked in this manner for the next several decades. Marsh appeared in numerous popular films, such as \"Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm\" (1932) and \"Little Man, What Now?\" (1934). She also became a favorite of director John Ford, appearing in \"The Grapes of Wrath\" (1940), \"How Green Was My Valley\" (1941), \"3 Godfathers\" (1948), and \"The Searchers\" (1956).\n\nMarsh has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame located at 1600 Vine Street.\n\nShe married Sam Goldwyn's publicity agent Louis Lee Arms, in 1918; they had three children together. They were married until her death in 1968. Louis Arms died in June 1989 at age 101. They are buried together in Section 5 at Pacific Crest Cemetery in Redondo Beach, California.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314834", "title": "Eric Leeds", "text": "Eric Leeds\n\nEric Leeds is an American saxophone player, mostly known for his work with Prince. He has recorded mostly music in the pop and funk genres, but is a studied jazz musician.\n\nLeeds was born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, the son of a retailer. He moved to Richmond, Virginia, at the age of seven, where he lived from 1959 to 1966, and then moved to Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, at the age of fourteen, where he attended junior high school and college. Leeds lived in Pittsburgh for eighteen years and started a music career there. Leeds studied saxophone with mentor Eric Kloss, who had signed to Prestige Records at the age of sixteen. He attended Duquesne University. He played in a band named \"On The Corner\" during the 1970s, which consisted of two trumpets, one tenor sax, one baritone sax, and a four-piece rhythm section. Eric played baritone sax in the band. Rich Mansfield, also known as Brother Rick and the musical director from the American Soundtrack series played tenor sax in the band.\n\nLeeds' brother, Alan Leeds, was the tour manager for Prince in the early 1980s and introduced his brother to Prince not long after the \"Purple Rain\" tour. Prince was impressed by Leeds' talents and featured him in the band The Family in 1985. The band was short-lived, but Prince invited Leeds into The Revolution for his \"Parade\" tour. Leeds brought along long-time friend Matt Blistan, who was renamed Atlanta Bliss by Prince.\n\nAfter the breakup of The Revolution, Prince retained Leeds and Bliss for his succeeding band and used their talents greatly over his next three albums. Bliss left the fold in 1989 but Leeds lent his talents to Madhouse (1987–1993) and various Prince projects throughout the years.\n\nIn 1991, Leeds released the album \"Times Squared\" on Prince's Paisley Park Records, which incorporated rock, pop and jazz sounds. The tracks that Leeds chose for the album were recorded by Prince and Leeds between 1985 and 1988. A second album, entitled \"Things Left Unsaid\", was released in 1993 with one Prince contribution.\n\nThe Family reunited in 2007 under the name Fdeluxe with all original members (except Jerome Benton), including Leeds. In 2012, they released their album, \"Gaslight\", independently.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314840", "title": "Battle of Eccles Hill", "text": "Battle of Eccles Hill\n\nThe Battle of Eccles Hill or (The War at the Border) was part of a raid into Canadian territory from the United States led by John O'Neill of the Fenian Brotherhood. In 1870, the Fenians crossed the just south of the Canada-United States border and proceeded to the top of Eccles Hil where they were confronted by members of the Canadian home guard and volunteers. This conflict was initiated by a group of Irish patriots exiled to the United States to start a revolutionary movement for Ireland's independence. The army of the Fenian Brotherhood was overwhelmed by local militia units and armed citizens on May 25, 1870. They were compelled to abandon what was anticipated to have been a \" glorious victory \" for the Fenians. \n\nIn planning for the raid into Canada, John O'Neill sought to pressure Great Britain into granting Irish sovereignty. O'Neill initially called for the intrusion to go as far as St.Jean and Richmond, which was by the waterway coming from Montreal. He was looking there because the waterway reached of the ultimate goal, the Canadian Railroad. The Fenians needed to have numerous organized and assorted assaults, all happening simultaneously.\n\nOn May 25, 1870, O'Neill had over 200 troopers. He traveled to Franklin, Vermont, and from there to Eccles Hill, Canada. In O'Neill's march to Canada, he encountered George Foster, a U.S. Marshal, twice before crossing the border. In their first encounter, Foster warned the men of a new set of Neutrality laws. Even knowing that it was against neutrality laws, the Fenians ignored the Marshal and continued over the border. The marshal warned them that Canadian riflemen awaited them at Eccles Hill, acting under orders from British and Canadian officials whose informants from within the Fenian Brotherhood provided them with details of the intended attack.\n\nWithin the morning, the self-proclaimed Irish Republic Army was walking to the battlegrounds on May 25, 1870. Within the distance, Fenian activists, working from Vermont, collected on May 25 to organize a second intrusion of the Montreal region (a comparable Fenian endeavor beneath Samuel Stick had attacked Canadian region in 1866) when they saw the Irish coming their way. General O'Neill gave the arrange to charge at the Irish armed force. At that minute, the Irish charged at the Fenian armed force. 400 Irish men charged into-Canada. Within the meantime,the Canadians were able to secure the frontier of Ontario and Quebec along side with the Canadian army. Without alarming the Fenians of their whereabouts. \n\nOn May 25, 1870, a force of Canadian militia and armed citizens awaited the Fenians at the summit of Eccles Hill. When the Fenians charged the Irish, it was a perfect time for James Pell of Dunham to crawl up to top of the hill. James Pell took out his musket and looked to aim at the first person wearing green rushing to the top of the hill. In the silence, James fired a shot and a hit Fenian John Rowe in the neck. Then the Fenians were treated to a hail storm of gunfire from the Canadian bullets after Pell's commanding first shot. Even though they had discussed many times, they squeezed off their first rounds only when the green (the Fenians wore leftover Union clothing with a green jacket) and blue figures reached Canadian soil. The Canadian sliders were fortified behind the hill, and the firing soon became a steady firefight. Many of the younger soldiers were struck with panic at the sight of their fallen comrade and their first taste of combat. This halted the advance of the Fenians, who took cover and returned fire. Lieutenant-Colonel William Osborne Smith hurried to the field with a force of Canadian militia volunteers. Together with the armed citizens, the Canadian militia charged the Fenian into defensive fighting positions. Many Fenian Soldiers disbanded and hid behind walls, some jumped into the water, and in the mites of this gun fighting, William O'Brien of Moriah was shot dead. The Canadians drove the Fenians into retreat as a hail of ammunition shot around them, leaving behind their artillery and two dead soldiers. This was significant to the Canadian battalion and this volunteer since the Canadians were outnumbered by the Fenians nearly six to 1. Nevertheless, the Canadians suffered many casualties during the engagement, but none were fatal. \n\nIn the aftermath of the battle, when O'Neill was returning from the battle, they stopped to treat a lying injured Fenian soldier. Then a U.S. Marshall named Marshal George P. Foster who was riding by took O'Neill and declared him under arrest and charged him for violating neutrality laws. With the arrest of the commander, many Fenian soldiers started to desert their militia groups. Fenian officers were left with little choice but to abandon their position and find safe positions until they could escape under cover of the night. Once the finally Canadian counter-attack happened, and the demoralized Fenian soldiers fled instead of fighting. They were throwing away ammunition, food, water all to lighten their load to escape. Fenians were to believe this would be a glorious superior win for them over the Canadians. However, they were very incorrect. Even after all these two days later, the Fenians crossed the border into Quebec. They were headed to Trout River; this was west of the Eccles hill. The 50th Canadian Battalion, the Montreal Volunteer Artillery, and the British 69th Regiment swiftly dealt with this invasion, and the Fenians fled back across the border. Again, there were no Canadian casualties.\n\nEccles Hill Road, Frelighsburg, Quebec. Where Canadian Volunteers and Home Guards resisted the Fenian raiders – on 25th May 1870. The site of the granite monument was celebrated close to the battlefield and where the Canadians held their positions. However, even knowing that the true battle took place just south of the Canada–United States border. They established it in Canadian soil as to give national sense of pride. On 1st July 1902, almost three decades after the battle, under the liberal government leader Wilfrid Laurier, in collaboration with the Missisquoi Historical Society, placed a granite monument to commemorate the battle and the people who fought in it. On its inaugural day, many spectators participating in the event, wore red scarves to honour the veterans present. This was because during the battle many Canadians didn't have Uniforms therefore they were bright red scarves over their shoulders. Many of these bright red streamers were placed in the bushes all along the road to guide the more than a hundred guests towards Eccles Hill\n\n\"Brome-Missisquoi\" veteran soldiers from the Missisquoi 60th battalion proudly wore their new commemorative military medals engraved with the \"Fenian Raids of 1866–1870\" inscription. In fact, after thirty years since the end of the Battle Of Eccles hill, the Canadian authorities decided to decorate all veterans who participated in pushing back the Fenian invasion. Thanks to the incorporated registry constituted in 1866 and 1870, today, we know who was part of the Volunteer Canadian militia and giving them proper Military respects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314842", "title": "Simone Cantarini", "text": "Simone Cantarini\n\nSimone Cantarini or Simone da Pesaro, called \"il Pesarese\" (Baptized on 21 August 1612 – 15 October 1648) was an Italian painter and etcher. He is mainly known for his history paintings and portraits executed in an original style, which united aspects of Bolognese classicism with a bold naturalism.\n\nCantarini was also a gifted etcher who achieved extraordinary delicacy and a vibrant and luminous quality in his graphic work.\n\nCantarini was born in Pesaro, now a town in the Italian region of the Marche, then part of the Papal States and ruled by the Della Rovere. He was baptized on 21 August 1612. His father Girolamo was a prominent merchant and the family was well-off.\n\nThere is no documentary information on Cantarini's early training. Initially he may have been a pupil of Giovanni Giacomo Pandolfi. A religious person from a church in Pesaro who supported Cantarini's artistic career accompanied the young artist on a trip to Venice. In Venice he could take advantage of the guidance of the Venetian late-Mannerist painter Sante Peranda and learned drawing skills from Francesco Mingucci, a fellow citizen of Pesaro residing in Venice. He returned to Pesaro. He received his first commissions from the Augustinian order in Pesaro and nearby Fano. His first commissions included the painting \"Saint Rita of Cascia\", now in the Saint Augustine Church of Pesaro, and \"The Immaculate Conception with Saints\" (Pinacoteca Nazionale di Bologna).\n\nIt is assumed that Cantarini became a pupil of Claudio Ridolfi although the precise timing of the training is not known. Ridolfi would have passed on to him the Venetian style and a strong appreciation for the work of Federico Barocci, a collaborator of Ridolfi in Urbino. After Ridolfi left Pesaro in 1629 Cantarini was left without a teacher and was thus compelled to pursue his artistic training on his own.\n\nAs he was not tutored by a single master in his early years, Simone Cantarini was mostly self-taught and he absorbed the styles of other painters by making copies or sketches after their works. The prints by the Carracci together with the work of Federico Barocci were important influences on the young artist. He further drew inspiration from the caravaggesque art of Orazio Gentileschi, who worked in the Marche region during the 1610s, and of Giovanni Francesco Guerrieri from nearby Fossombrone.\nGuido Reni was one of the painters whose work was present in various churches in the vicinity of Pesaro and Reni's mature style had an important influence on the young Cantarini. In particular, Catarini studied Guido Reni's \"Madonna and Child with Saints Thomas and Jerome\" that hung at the time in Pesaro Cathedral (now in the Pinacoteca Vaticana), and the \"Giving of the Keys to Saint Peter\" (1626, now in the Louvre, Paris) and the \"Annunciation\" (1620–21) that were in the church of San Pietro in Valle in nearby Fano. Cantarini started to receive commissions and one of his earliest masterpieces was the , which was also placed in the church of San Pietro in Valle in Fano. This work reveals Reni's important influence.\n\nPresumably around 1634 Cantarini joined Reni's studio, which was located in the via delle Pescherie near the piazza Maggiore in the old city centre of Bologna. Reni's studio was a form of boarding school and artist's studio. Reni considered Cantarini an experienced artist as he was soon allowed to stay on the principal floor of the house, which was reserved for Reni's more valued followers.\nHere he proved to be a student who had problems connecting with the other students and failed to attend classes such as the nude class, which brought him in conflict with the teacher of that class. During his stay in Reni' s studio Cantarini learned to etch and became very skilled in that technique.\nContemporary biographers describe a gradually deteriorating relationship between the master and pupil. The reasons for this are not entirely clear but have been attributed to Cantarini's inability to submit to the discipline of Reni's school and the fact that works of the pupil were sold with the signature of the master to increase their price. Cantarini further refused to engrave Guido's designs on the ground that his own works were as much worthy of publication. It is also possible that the pupil who had discovered the earlier masterpieces of Reni in the churches near his hometown was less impressed with the late style of Reni, which tended increasingly towards metaphysical visions populated with bloodless images. According to some stories the uneasy relationship between the two artists came to an explosive halt when Reni criticized a work of Cantarini in front of other students upon which Cantarini threw the painting against the wall. The break with Reni lead to a drought in new commissions, which forced Cantarini to leave Bologna.\nCantarini is recorded back in his native Pesaro in 1639. He is said to have had a relationship with a local young woman with whom he had extramarital children.\n\nHe made a brief trip to Rome in 1640 or 1641. After Reni's death in 1642, Cantarini returned to Bologna. Here he opened his own studio in the Palazzo Zambeccari, where he trained local artists such as Lorenzo Pasinelli, Flaminio Torre, Giulio Cesare Milani, Giovanni Peruzzini, Giovanni Maria Luffoli, and the engraver Girolamo Rossi. Giovanni Venanzi was also very likely his pupil.\n\nIn 1647 Cantarini was invited to Mantua by Carlo II Gonzaga of Nevers. Since it took him too long to finish the portrait the Duke had commissioned he was relieved of his duties. He became seriously ill and moved to Verona, where he died. Some biographers claim that Cantarini had created a scandal through his behavior and criticisms of the Gonzaga collection and it was suspected that he was poisoned by an angry rival.\n\nCantarini was principally a painter of the Counterreformation who painted religious subjects. The majority of Reni's compositions deal with religious subject matter, principally taken from the New Testament. He was particularly interested in depicting scenes involving the Holy Family and the Holy Virgin, either in portrait settings with St Joseph and other saints or in scenes like the flight into Egypt. He was also a gifted portrait painter. Cantarini was further a prolific engraver and draughtsman.\n\nHis work shows the influence of various artists with the influence of Guido Reni being the most important one. He was able to develop his own personal style from what he had learned from Reni combining elements of Baroque with Classicist tendencies.\n\nHis early works reveal a Venetian influence by their clear interest in light and colour. His presumed master Claudio Ridolfi instilled in him an appreciation of Federico Barocci, which was reflected in the soft sfumato of the faces of his Virgins and saints, their idyllic mood and tender feeling. His early works show further his study of the works of Raphael and the early work of Correggio. He further drew inspiration from the caravaggesque art of Orazio Gentileschi and Giovanni Francesco Guerrieri from whom he acquired a powerful naturalism.\nIn the early 1630s he became increasingly absorbed in the work of Guido Reni that was present in various churches in and around his hometown. He made copies of, and made sketches after, Reni's work. An early work reflecting this influence of Reni is (church of San Pietro in Valle, Fano) dating from around 1634. Other works from this early period are the (Pinacoteca Civica, Fano) and the .\n\nDuring his stay in Reni's studio the influence of Reni only became stronger. After the rupture with Reni, Cantarini's work developed towards a more personal style. He abandoned academic classicism in favour of the naturalism of his youth. He also developed a freer, more lyrical style.\n\nIn this period he created the (Louvre, Paris) and \"Susanna and the Elders\" (c. 1640; Pinacoteca Nazionale di Bologna). After his visit to Rome in the early 1640s he moved closer to the tradition of Raphael, yet without abandoning naturalism. His (Pinacoteca di Brera, Milan) is based on Raphael's (Musée Condé, Chantilly). Other works from this period show an influence of Venetian painting and a development towards freeer brushwork.\n\nAlready from his earliest days as an artist, Cantarini distinguished himself as a portrait painter. His earliest known portrait is a \"Portrait of a nun\" (1629, Galleria Pallavicini). Noble Pesaro families such as the Albani, Olivieri, Gavardini, Mosca and Baldassini ordered portraits from him. In 1633 he portrayed another prominent sitter: , the prominent Catholic cardinal, patron of the arts and a member of the House of Barberini. Another portrait, which shows the artist's skills as a portrait painter at their peak is the (Museo civico medievale in Bologna). It was painted around the same time as the portrait of Antonio Barberini.\n\nOne of his best-known portraits is the , which probably dates from around the time of the breakup between Cantarini and Reni. The portrait is in tondo format. Due do its success many copies were made and various versions exist, including a larger one with a diameter of 60 cm in a private collection in Pesaro and a smaller one with a diameter of 36 cm (possibly a copy) in the Pinacoteca Nazionale di Bologna. It is believed the larger one, which shows the sitter in half-length format, is the original. The larger format allowed the artist to represent his master in stylish clothing with a fine lace over the white collar and a golden collar pendant on his chest. The brush in the larger portrait is smoother, more fluid and richer in the soft passages than in the smaller portrait. The face of Reni thus acquires a greater liveliness and is infused with an expression of inner balance, rather than with impulsive anger as in the smaller copy in Bologna in the sample.\n\nCantarini was a prolific etcher to whom are attributed with certainty 37 plates of mythological, religious and allegorical subjects, all of exceptional quality. His prints were praised in his lifetime for their extraordinary delicacy and vibrant and luminous quality. Cantarini was able to imbue his plates with a new spirit, treating them in the same way as a piece of paper by using nervous and flickering signs. This gave his creations a modern movement and a vibe. Cantarini's skill as a designer/draughtsman informed his work as an etcher by allowing him to arrive at a graphic simplification of great beauty and effectiveness.\nCantarini is known to have followed a set procedure in the design and creation of his prints: he would start with a general sketch of the composition in pen or pencil. After having thus studied the details of the composition one by one, he traced the design in red stone, with the details defined. The design was then replicated in pen in its final dimensions using a grid and then transferred on a copper plate and etched.\n"}
{"id": "2314846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314846", "title": "Las Rozas de Madrid", "text": "Las Rozas de Madrid\n\nLas Rozas de Madrid (or simply, Las Rozas; ) is one of the largest townships and municipalities in the autonomous community of Madrid, Spain, with an area of between 58.8 and 59.14 km² . It is located some 17 – 20 km northwest of the city of Madrid itself, on the A-6 freeway to A Coruña. Las Rozas is the beginning of this freeway, near the fork road M-505 to El Escorial, which marks the southern boundary of this 'comarca' or rural district (although it is no longer rural).\n\nThe municipality is served by four RENFE railway stations– Las Rozas, Las Matas, El Pinar and El Tejar. A fifth stop, at Peñascales was closed. The municipality shares borders with Torrelodones to the north, Villanueva del Pardillo and Galapagar to the west, the national park of Monte del Pardo (Madrid) in the east and Majadahonda (south).\n\nLas Rozas has one of the highest average per capita incomes in the Community of Madrid.\n\nDuring the final decades of the 20th century the town has experienced a vigorous building program, mostly as a dormitory town for Madrid, with a correspondingly strong population growth, which more than doubled between 1991 and 2005 (from 35,137 to 76,246 inhabitants).\n\nThe provisioning for local services (such as schools and new dwellings) has at times been outpaced by the locality's high birth and immigration rates. However, by 2010 the community was well served in all health, education and social sectors.\n\nRozas means clearings in Spanish. Various theories exist, for example: The clearing by Romans for military exercises, the collection of firewood or the creation of farmland. According to some historians Las Rozas could be the old Miacum, the name associated with the city of Madrid, dating from about the third century.\n\nLas Rozas is situated near the river Guadarrama (which flows all year round) and along the ancient road between Segovia and Titulcia (two of the most ancient settlements in the area). The part of this ancient road near Las Rozas is now approximately the A6/M505 route.\n\nDuring the Spanish civil war it became the site of major battles, a reminder of this time are the concrete forms of bunkers that remain in the Dehesa of Navalcarbón and along the valley of the river Guadarrama.\n\nIn the winter of 1936 the pro-Franco troops advanced for the west of Madrid from their bases at Brunete, Villaviciosa de Odón and Campamento. In the middle of a dense fog with freezing temperature, Franco's rebels, supported by the air force, engaged the republican forces in one of the bloodiest battles of the civil War. The inhabitants of Las Rozas took refuge in other places of the nearby Sierra (mountains) such as the caves in Hoyo de Manzanares. These \"roceños\" (inhabitants of Las Rozas) who fled were nicknamed \"cucos\", (the sly ones).\n\nWhen the war was over, the Church of San Miguel and of the 270 houses of the (pre-war) settlement, 92 were severely damaged and only 13 were intact. The \"Ministerio de la Gobernación\" created the \"Dirección General de Regiones Devastadas\" for the reconstruction of towns destroyed by the war and Las Rozas was included among them.\n\nLas Rozas can be reached from the Autopista del Noroeste (North-west Freeway) (Freeway that goes from Las Rozas to Adanero(Ávila)), from N-VI National Road from Madrid to A Coruña M-50 (third ring road around Madrid) and M-505 (County Road to El Escorial). This freeway is one of the first in Spain, put on service in early 1967. Then, 22 km from Las Rozas, to Northwest, in Collado Villalba, this freeway, become to Tollway.\n\nThere are 7 bus lines that connect the town with Moncloa (Madrid) 621, 624 (Burgo of Las Rozas), 622 (Las Matas), 623 (VillaFranca del Castillo), 626, 628, 629 (new zones like the Business Park, La Dehesa and El Cantizal). There is also another bus line (561) that connects Las Rozas with Aluche (Madrid), passing through Majadahonda and Pozuelo.\n\nLas Rozas has three main train stations: Las Rozas, near the Old Town in the south of the municipality, Las Matas in the North, and El Pinar. The (dark green) Lines 8 + 9 run from Atocha in the south of Madrid and Chamartín in the north of Madrid via El Tejar, El Pinar and Las Matas to end-stations El Escorial, Cercedilla and Cotos Ski station. Line 10 runs also runs from Atocha, but via a long circular route to Principe Pio in the west of Madrid via Las Rozas, Pinar and Las Matas to Villalba. A circular line runs around Madrid serving Las Rozas. El Tejar is merely an occasional interchange halt between lines 8, 9, and 10 (there are no facilities or habitation nearby). A fifth stop, the halt at Los Peñascales (near Las Matas) was suppressed entirely.\n\nThere is a project proposal to encourage ecologically sustainable transport, especially of electrical scooters, entitled \"Las Rozas: la Capital Verde del Noroeste de Madrid\"\nwhich suggests either El Pinar or Las Matas should have a park and Ride facility providing access to major retailers in the municipality as well as commuter links to Madrid city. The nearby autovía A-6 is regularly congested at an accident blackspot about \"Km 16\" (near Majadahonda) some 5 km south of Las Rozas (which is at \"Km 22\" from Madrid).\n\nDuring the 1960s, Las Rozas was used as a film set, with one studio that Samuel Bronston built being a luxurious mansion near Las Matas. It was one of the most important film studios in Europe and aimed to be the largest in the world, but commercial failures such as \"55 Days at Peking\" prevented Las Rozas from becoming a famous film making location. For the filming of \"55 Days at Peking\" many locals (called \"roceños\") were employed as extras and as the bricklayers that built the sets decorated them in tribute to the beauty of Ava Gardner. It is believed an artificial river was constructed and filled by tankers.\n\nA road across the Dehesa of Navalcarbón is named in Samuel Bronston's honour. He wished to be buried in Las Rozas, his remains were finally put to rest in the graveyard of Las Rozas.\n\nThere are many cultural activities mainly based around the Joaquín Rodrigo Auditorium, which includes a school of music and dance, four cultural centres, three libraries and five exhibition facilities.\n\nListed on the official web-site of the municipality there is: an annual Carnival, Concierts of Sacred Music, Coral Music and Folk Winter Festival as well as The Compositores de España International Piano Competition which has been held here since about 2000.\n\nThere are also various themed street-markets, fairs celebrating horsemanship in April, various seafood and tapas exhibitions in the summer and Festibike international cycling event in the autumn.\n\nSporting events have always been very important in Las Rozas and it is the only municipality that won two national sports prizes, in part due to the excellent training facilities available.\n\nLas Rozas has a football team (Las Rozas CF) which competes in the Spanish Tercera División (level four of the Spanish football league system). Additionally the town has a futsal team that was recently relegated to the silver division.\n\nLas Rozas has also a Basketball team which competes in Spanish third level called \"LIGA LEB Plata\". CB Las Rozas is growing year before year and now have more than 31 teams in their rows. During the 1990s, this team also performed well and narrowly missed out on promotion to the Premier division, today known as Liga ACB.\n\nFor the last 15 years Las Rozas has also had a significant Rugby team called A.D Ingenieros Industriales who have competed in the National First Division (the third level in Spanish Rugby). The club uses an artificial pitch in the Cantizal zone. Also playing at the el Cantizal field are the Las Rozas Black Demons, an American Football team competing in the LNFA.\n\nAnother noticeable facility in the municipality is the \"Ciudad del fútbol de la Real Federación Española de Fútbol\" (Royal Spanish Football Federation's Football City), build on lands donated by the Town Council. On two occasions the TSJM has failed to secure the return of these municipal plots.\n\nOther popular sports are the Toad in the hole, Hammer throw, Calva, a sort of Horseshoes and chito, a pastime in which a diskus is aimed at a target upon which a coin is balanced.\n\nDemocratically elected Mayors (since the Spanish Constitution of 1978\n\nFuente: Instituto de estadítica de la Comunidad de Madrid\nThe first column is the value of the data in the municipality, the second is of the Metropolitan Western zone, the third is that of the community and the last one the year.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314852", "title": "LF-space", "text": "LF-space\n\nIn mathematics, an \"LF\"-space is a topological vector space \"V\" that is a locally convex inductive limit of a countable inductive system formula_1 of Fréchet spaces. This means that \"V\" is a direct limit of the system formula_1 in the category of locally convex topological vector spaces and each formula_3 is a Fréchet space.\n\nSome authors restrict the term \"LF\"-space to mean that \"V\" is a strict locally convex inductive limit, which means that the topology induced on formula_3 by formula_5 is identical to the original topology on formula_3.\n\nThe topology on \"V\" can be described by specifying that an absolutely convex subset \"U\" is a neighborhood of 0 if and only if formula_7 is an absolutely convex neighborhood of 0 in formula_3 for every n.\n\nAn \"LF\"-space is barrelled and bornological (and thus ultrabornological).\n\nA typical example of an \"LF\"-space is, formula_9, the space of all infinitely differentiable functions on formula_10 with compact support. The \"LF\"-space structure is obtained by considering a sequence of compact sets formula_11 with formula_12 and for all i, formula_13 is a subset of the interior of formula_14. Such a sequence could be the balls of radius \"i\" centered at the origin. The space formula_15 of infinitely differentiable functions on formula_10 with compact support contained in formula_13 has a natural Fréchet space structure and formula_9 inherits its \"LF\"-space structure as described above. The \"LF\"-space topology does not depend on the particular sequence of compact sets formula_13.\n\nWith this \"LF\"-space structure, formula_9 is known as the space of test functions, of fundamental importance in the theory of distributions.\n"}
{"id": "2314853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314853", "title": "Jean-Baptiste de Nompère de Champagny", "text": "Jean-Baptiste de Nompère de Champagny\n\nJean-Baptiste de Nompère de Champagny, 1st Duc de Cadore (4 August 1756 – 3 July 1834) was a French admiral and politician.\n\nHe was born in Roanne, Loire. Entering the French royal navy in 1774, he fought through the war in America and resigned in 1787. Elected député by the noblesse of Forez to the Estates-General in 1789, he went over to the Third Estate on the 21st of June and collaborated in the work of the National Constituent Assembly, especially occupying himself with the reorganization of the navy.\n\nA political career seems to have attracted him little; he remained in private life from 1791 to 1799, when Napoleon named him member of the council of state. From July 1801 to August 1804 he was ambassador of France at Vienna, and directed with great intelligence the incessant negotiations between the two courts.\n\nIn August 1804 Napoleon made him minister of the interior, and in this position, which he held for three years, he proved an administrator of the first order. In addition to the ordinary charges of his office, he had to direct the recruitment of the army, organize the Exposition des produits de l'industrie française of 1806, and to complete the public works undertaken in Paris and throughout France.\n\nHe was devoted to Napoleon, on whom he lavished adulation in his speeches. In August 1807 the Emperor chose him to succeed Talleyrand as minister for foreign affairs. He directed the annexation of the Papal States in April 1808, worked to secure the abdication of Charles IV of Spain in May 1808, negotiated the Peace of Vienna (1809) and the marriage of Napoleon.\n\nThe Emperor rewarded him with the rare hereditary of a duché grand-fief, Cadore (extinguished in 1893) in Friuli, in Napoleon's own kingdom of Italy.\n\nIn April 1811 a quarrel with the Emperor led to his retirement, and he obtained the sinecure office of intendant general of the crown. In 1814, after the abdication, the Empress sent him on a fruitless mission to the Emperor of Austria. Then he went over to the Bourbons.\n\nDuring the Hundred Days he again joined Napoleon. This led to his exclusion by Louis XVIII, but in 1819 he recovered his dignity of Peer of France. He died in Paris in 1834.\n\nBy his marriage at Saint-Vincent-de-Boisset on 22 January 1787 to Victoire Blandine Hue de Grosbois, as him born at Roanne, on 4 January 1770 and died in Paris on 4 February 1821, he had at least four sons who became men of distinction: \n"}
{"id": "2314856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314856", "title": "Morning Exchange (TV programme)", "text": "Morning Exchange (TV programme)\n\nMorning Exchange is a television business news programme that aired on CNBC Europe from 10 am to noon CET (9 am to 11 am GMT) between June 2003 and December 2005. The show was simulcast in the United States from 4 am to 5 am EDT.\n\nThe European \"Morning Exchange\" was originally presented by Ross Westgate and Patricia Szarvas (although Guy Johnson and Louisa Bojesen also became regular presenters) and contained rolling business news, focusing on the major European bourses. Segments included the \"Morning Meeting\" with an investment banker, and the 10:30 am \"Talking Point\" in which several CNBC Europe business news correspondents debated an issue of the day.\n\n\"Morning Exchange\" used the same theme music as its CNBC United States counterpart, \"Morning Call\". The programme began in June 2003, and replaced the similar programme \"European Market Watch\". It ended its run on 16 December 2005 and was replaced by \"Worldwide Exchange\".\n"}
{"id": "2314874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314874", "title": "Tragic mulatto", "text": "Tragic mulatto\n\nThe tragic mulatto is a stereotypical fictional character that appeared in American literature during the 19th and 20th centuries, from the 1840s. The \"tragic mulatto\" is an archetypical mixed-race person (a \"mulatto\"), who is assumed to be sad, or even suicidal, because they fail to completely fit in the \"white world\" or the \"black world\". As such, the \"tragic mulatto\" is depicted as the victim of the society in society divided by race, where there is no place for one who is neither completely \"black\" nor \"white\". This trope was also used by abolitionists in order to create a mixed-race, but white-appearing, slave that would serve as a tool to express sentimentality to white readers in an effort to paint slaves as \"more human\".\n\nThe related concept of the \"tragic half-breed\" or \"tragic mestizo\" involves the child of a white person and a Native American. Especially when such a person has a white mother and native father (and is thus excluded under most native tribes' matrilineal kinship from being considered legally native), the same basic tropes of dual societal rejection apply.\n\nThe female \"tragic octoroon\" was a stock character of abolitionist literature: a light-skinned woman, raised in her father's household as though she were white, until his bankruptcy or death has her reduced to a menial position and sold. She may even be unaware of her status before being so reduced. This character allowed abolitionists to draw attention to the sexual exploitation in slavery; and unlike the suffering of the field hands, did not allow slaveholders to retort that the sufferings of Northern mill hands were no easier, since the Northern mill owner would not sell his own children into slavery.\n\nThe \"tragic mulatta\" figure is a woman of biracial heritage who endures the hardships of African-Americans in the antebellum South, even though she may look white enough that her ethnicity is not immediately obvious. As the name implies, tragic mulattas almost always meet a bad end. Lydia Maria Child's 1842 short story \"The Quadroons\" is generally credited as the first work of literature to feature a tragic mulatta, to garner support for emancipation and equal rights. Child followed up \"The Quadroons\" with the 1843 short story \"Slavery's Pleasant Homes\", which also features a tragic mulatta character.\n\nWriter Eva Allegra Raimon notes that Child \"allowed white readers to identify with the victim by gender while distancing themselves by race and thus to avoid confronting a racial ideology that denies the full humanity of nonwhite women.\" The passing character, Clare Kendry, in Nella Larsen's \"Passing\" has been deemed a \"tragic mulatta\".\n\nGenerally, the tragic mulatta archetype falls into one of three categories:\n\n\nA common objection to this character is that she allows readers to pity the plight of oppressed or enslaved races, but only through a veil of whiteness — that is, instead of sympathizing with a true racial \"other\", one is sympathizing with a character who is made as much like one's own race as possible. The \"tragic mulatta\" often appeared in novels intended for women, and some of the character's appeal lay in the lurid fantasy of a person just like them suddenly cast into a lower social class after the discovery of a small amount of \"black blood\" that renders her unfit for proper marriage.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314879", "title": "Utbah ibn Abi Lahab", "text": "Utbah ibn Abi Lahab\n\nUtbah ibn Abu Lahab was a first cousin and companion of the Islamic prophet Muhammad.\n\nBorn in Mecca, Utbah was the eldest son of Abu Lahab ibn Abdul-Muttalib and Umm Jamil bint Harb. For several years his family lived next door to Muhammad and Khadija.\n\nAlthough never consummated and lasting less than three years, Utbah was legally married to his eight year old cousin Ruqayyah, the fourth child and second daughter of Muhammad, sometime prior to August 610 AD.\n\nAfter Muhammad recited \"sura\" 111, \"\"Perish the hands of Abu Lahab\",\" Abu Lahab wanted to cut ties with him. When Muhammad \"openly preached to the Quraysh and showed them hostility,\" other Quraysh sympathised with Abu Lahab's desire not to keep Muhammad's daughters at his own expense. They told Utbah that if he divorced Ruqayyah, they would give him any woman he liked; and his father also told him that if he did not divorce her, he would never speak to him again. Utbah replied that he would like either the daughter or the granddaughter of Sa'id ibn Al-As ibn Umayya. The Quraysh agreed, and so he divorced Ruqayyah. She was by then about twelve, and the marriage had not been consummated.\n\nUpon the Conquest of Mecca in January 630, Utbah and his brother Muattib withdrew to the edge of Mecca with the other polytheists. Muhammad asked his uncle al-Abbas to bring them to him. They were brought, and at Muhammad's invitation, they converted to Islam and took the oath of allegiance. Al-Abbas remarked that Muhammad's face was \"reflecting joy\" at their conversion. Utbah joined the Islamic army and fought at Hunayn. He was among those who did not abandon Muhammad in the battle.\n\nHowever, when the rest of the Hashim clan emigrated to Medina, Utbah and his brother Muattib remained in Mecca.\n\nUtbah had a slave named Abd al-Wahid ibn Ayman, whom his sons sold after his death.\n"}
{"id": "2314898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314898", "title": "Alice Barrows", "text": "Alice Barrows\n\nAlice Prentice Barrows (November 15, 1878 – October 2, 1954) was a secretary of Dr. William A. Wirt, who headed the U.S. Office of Education in the early days of the New Deal of President Franklin Roosevelt. Barrows had been a member of the Communist party since 1919, the same year she began working for the Office of Education. During World War II Barrows was the Executive Secretary of the National Council of American-Soviet Friendship.\n\nBorn in Lowell, Massachusetts, the daughter of Charles Dana Barrows and Marion Merrill, Alice graduated from Vassar College with an A.B. During 1901–03, she was employed as an English teacher at the Packer Collegiate Institute, then she taught English at the Ethical School in New York City from 1903–04. She became an English teacher at her alma mater until 1908 and was a graduate fellow of Columbia University. In 1909, Alice became a social investigator for the Russell Sage Foundation, mentored by Mary van Kleeck, who was later director of the Department of Industrial Studies. Together they completed a report of women in the millinery industry. Two years later in 1911, she was named director of the Vocational Education Survey.\n\nIn 1934, a Congressional Investigation was held to examine statements Dr. Wirt made regarding a meeting in Alice Barrows home a year earlier. The \"Wirt Incident\" was widely reported and provoked much controversy. Barrows and several other government employees revealed to Wirt they were members of the Communist party. Wirt testified,\n\nI was told they believe that by thwarting our then evident economic recovery, they would be able to prolong the country's destitution until they had demonstrated to the American people that the Government must operate business and commerce. By propaganda, they would destroy institutions making long term capital loans—and then push Uncle Sam into making these loans. Once Uncle Sam becomes our financier, he must also follow his money with control and management.\n\nWirt further testified they told him,\n\nWe believe we have Roosevelt in the middle of a swift stream, and that the current is so strong, that he cannot turn back or escape from it. We believe that we can keep Mr. Roosevelt there until we are ready to supplant him with a Stalin. We all think that Mr. Roosevelt is only the Kerensky of this revolution. We are on the inside. We can control the avenues of influence. We can make the President believe that he is making decisions for himself.\n\nA June 1945 Venona project decryption of the Washington, D.C. KGB Office to Moscow's Eighth Department, the political intelligence wing, relayed information on matters regarding President Truman and Attorney General Francis Biddle. KGB agent Charles Kramer, who served on the staff of several Senate Subcommittees, and Barrows are the sources of the information. Mary Van Kleek who headed the Russell Sage Foundation and also served on the Board of the National Council, visited Washington weekly to meet with Barrows and Nathan Gregory Silvermaster.\n\nThe organization Barrows served as Director was found in 1953 to be a Communist front organization by the Subversive Activities Control Board (SACB). In its Findings of Fact, the SACB said the National Council of American-Soviet Friendship, \nadvances positions...markedly pro-Soviet and...anti-United States Government...is a Communist-action organization which has as its primary purpose to advance the objectives of the world Communist movement under the hegemony of the Soviet Union; it has the policy to support and defend the Soviet Union under any and all circumstances...We conclude that the National Council of American-Soviet Friendship, Inc., is substantially directed, dominated, and controlled by the Communist Party of the United States...and is primarily operated for the purpose of giving aid and support to...the Soviet Union, a Communist foreign government.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314899", "title": "Jamai Loman", "text": "Jamai Loman\n\nJamai Johannes Loman (born June 30, 1986) is a Dutch singer who was the winner of the first series of \"Idols\", the Dutch variant of \"Pop Idol\".\n\nLoman (at that time living with his parents and two elder sisters), grew up in Schoonhoven, where he started his \"career\" in a school musical. He also performed at the school's \"Shownight\" in 2000, and played in the school jazzband called 8CC.\n\nIn 2003, he entered the Dutch Idols competition. To his surprise, he survived round after round and was voted the winner. At the 2003 World Idol however, he only received 36 points and came in last, with a slashing Jury report.\n\nShortly after releasing his third single, Loman decided to move from the music business to acting and he starred in the musicals \"Doornroosje\" (Sleeping Beauty), \"Hello, Dolly!\" and \"Jesus Christ Superstar\". Currently (January 2007) he is in \"The Wiz\", where he is playing the role of the Wiz and alternating the role of the Scarecrow.\n\nIn 2008, Loman played the role of Marius in the Dutch revival version of \"Les Misérables\", for which he received a John Kraaijkamp Musical Award for ‘Best Supporting Actor’ in a large musical production.\n\nIn 2009, Loman is set to play the part of Bobby Strong in the M-Lab production of \"Urinetown\".\n\nSince 2016, he is one of the jury members of Idols 2016. The other jury members are Eva Simons, Martijn Krabbe and Jeroen Nieuwenhuis.\n\nTop 30: Always on My Mind by Willie Nelson\nTop 10: Everything I Do, I Do It For You by Bryan Adams\nTop 09: Love Is All Around\nTop 08: Sorry Seems To Be The Hardest Word by Elton John\nTop 07: De Vleugels Van Mijn Vlucht \nTop 06: Relight My Fire by Take That \nTop 05: Always\nTop 04: Angels by Robbie Williams\nTop 04: Let's Get Loud by Jennifer Lopez\nTop 03: If You Don't Know Me By Now by Simply Red\nTop 03: Celebration by Kool and The Gang\nFinale: Sorry Seems To Be The Hardest Word by Elton John\nFinale: Your Song by Elton John \nFinale: Step Right Up\n\n2003 \"Step Right Up\", Single\n2003 \"Greatest Moments\", Idols Album\n2003 \"Jamai\", Album\n2003 \"When you walk in the room\", Single (ft. Dewi, 4th place Idols) \n2004 \"Wango Tango\", Single\n2005 \"Super Guppie zingt\", Album starring different artists, in connection with the Dutch \"Children's Books Week\"\n2006 \"Jesus Christ Superstar\", Dutch Original Cast Album\n\n\nIn 2003 Loman won the \"Gouden Vedel\", a price awarded by the Dutch Association of Dancing Teachers to artists who release a good dance record. He received this award for his single \"Step Right Up\", used in dancing classes for learning the cha-cha-cha.\nLoman won the \"John Kraaijkamp Musical Award 2005\" for Best Upcoming Talent, for his role of Barnaby Tucker in \"Hello, Dolly!\". The Award includes a scholarship of Euro10,000.\nNominated for the \"John Kraaijkamp Musical Award 2006\" for Best Male Supporting Role for Simon in Jesus Christ Superstar.\nIn 2008 Loman won the \"John Kraaijkamp Musical Award 2008\" for Best Male Supporting Role for Marius Pontmercy in Les Misérables.\n\nIn October 2006, Loman started presenting the children's Television program \"Jetix Max\", together with actress Nicolette van Dam.\nIn December 2006, he dubbed the voice for penguin Mumble in the animated movie \"Happy Feet\".\nLoman has been an Ambassador for the Make-A-Wish Foundation in the Netherlands since May 2004.\nIn July 2009, Loman was announced the winner of the fourth season of the Dutch \"Dancing with the Stars\"\nFrom July till August 2009 Loman is also co-presenting the \"waar is Elvis\" (where is Elvis) television show\nfor RTL4.\n\n"}
{"id": "2314900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314900", "title": "Constellation 3D", "text": "Constellation 3D\n\nConstellation 3D (C3D or CDDD) was a company developing a new optical medium, the Fluorescent Multilayer Disc and Card (FMD/C). \n\nThe company was shut down following a failure to receive a committed investment by a Swiss based investor (see Press Releases of November 20, 2001, January 3, 2002, February 19, 2002 and April 19, 2002) and the unavailability of other financial sources. The company stopped activities and later on filed for bankruptcy. A company called D Data Inc. was formed which acquired the entire patent portfolio of Constellation 3D in 2003, and reintroduced the technology under the new name of Digital Multilayer Disk (DMD).\n\nAccording to Dr. Ingolf Sander, General Manager of Products until 2001, the reason for the company shutting down \"could have stemmed from their inability to overcome stability problems\" in the fluorescent materials used to make FMDs. This claim stands in sharp contrast with both the decision of the Board of Directors to stop activities due to the lack of financial resources, and the completion by D-Data of working product versions based on the same materials.\n\n"}
{"id": "2314904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314904", "title": "National Council of Women's Organizations", "text": "National Council of Women's Organizations\n\nThe National Council of Women's Organizations (NCWO) is an American non-profit umbrella organization of more than 100 women's organizations. The organization has a membership of more than 11 million women. In 2005, Susan Scanlan became the chair of NCWO. Shireen Mitchell is the founding chair of the Media and Technology taskforce.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314907", "title": "Latin house", "text": "Latin house\n\nLatin house is an electronic dance music genre that combines house and Latin American music, such as that of Puerto Rican, Cuban, Dominican, and African origin.\n\nIn the second half of the 1980s, some of the pioneers of house music of Latin-American descent gave birth to this genre by releasing house records in Spanish. Early examples include Jesse Velez \"Girls Out On The Floor\" 1985, \"Amor Puertorriqueño\" by Raz on DJ International and \"Break 4 Love\" by Raze.\n\nIn the 1990s a new generation of producers and labels broke into the market. Nervous Records released \"Quiero Saber\" by the Latin Kings, produced by Todd Terry, as well as \"Everything's All Right\" by Arts of Rhythm and \"Philly The Blunt\" by Trinidad. Strictly Rhythm employed producer Armand van Helden, who released \"Pirates of The Caribbean Vol. III\". Songs from the same label include DJ Dero's \"Sube\", The Tribe's \"Go-san-do\", R.A.W.'s \"Asuca\" produced by Erick Morillo, Rare Arts' \"Boricua Posse\", Escandalo's \"Mas Buena\" and Fiasco's \"Las Mujeres\" produced by Norty Cotto, Latin Kaos' \"El Bandolero\" and \"Muevete Mama\" and \"Sugar Cane\" by Afro-Cube.\n\nDuring the same period (1991 -1992), Chicago native Pizarro produced \"The Five Tones\", \"New Perspective EP\", \"Plastica\", \"Caliente\" and \"Perdoname\". Other producers like Ralphi Rosario and Masters at Work created Latin house classics, for instance Ralphie's production \"Da-Me-Lo\" and his remix of Albita's \"No se parece a nada\" as well as \"Sul Chu Cha\" by Rosabel, while Louie Vega and Kenny Gonzales remix \"Sume Sigh Say\" by House of Gypsies (Todd Terry), and a remarkable Latin house hit \"Robi Rob's Boriqua Anthem\" by C+C Music Factory.\n\nIn the meantime hybrid experiments are put on the market by the likes of New York's Proyecto Uno, who combined house and merengue in their LPs \" Todo el mundo\" and \"In Da House\". Their female counterpart is Lisa M from Puerto Rico, who can be heard on the \"No lo derrumbes\" and \"Flavor of the Latin\" albums. Another merengue-house record worth of mention is \"Así mamacita\" by Henry Rivera on Los Angeles Aqua Boogie. Duo Sandy & Papo are known for their LPs \"Sandy & Papo\" and \"Otra Vez\".\n\nDuring the mid-1990s Cutting broke into the Latin house scene and became the most representative label of this genre. Cutting's DJ Norty Cotto was deemed the most representative producer of Latin house. Among the various hits are 2 In A Room's \"Las Mujeres\", \"Carnival\" and \"Dar la vuelta\", Fun City's \"Padentro\" and \"Baila\", Sancocho's \"Tumba la Casa\", \"Alcen las manos\" and \"Que siga el party\" (LP) and Los Compadres' \"La Rumba\". Norty Cotto's mixed compilations also became classics. Fulanito and their LP \"El hombre mas famoso de la tierra\" is a good combination of house and Latin-American rhythms from that time. El General's \"Muevelo\" was another of the tunes of that time remixed to the sounds of Latin house by DJ, Producer Pablo Pabanor Ortiz & Erick More Morillo and Latin House party 2 in collaboration with Producer Rafael Torres, Ray Abraxas and Davidson Ospina. \n\nToday many other Latino house artists have emerged to create many successful songs of this genre, and also remixes.\n\n"}
{"id": "2314920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314920", "title": "Comme un aimant", "text": "Comme un aimant\n\nComme un aimant (released in the USA as The Magnet) is a 2000 French film by Kamel Saleh and Akhenaton. It depicts eight young people living in the district of Panier, in Marseille. \n\nThe film's title means 'like a magnet', and is a reference to a line in the film accusing two characters of being lazy and 'sitting there with your asses stuck to that bench like a magnet'. \n\n\nThe film's soundtrack is written by Bruno Coulais and Akhenaton, and it includes songs by IAM, Millie Jackson, Dennis Edwards of the Temptations, Isaac Hayes and Cunnie Williams.\n\nThe film's title \"Comme un aimant\" is also a song by IAM, a French hip hop band from Marseille which Akhenaton and Freeman, two of the actors, belong to.\n\n"}
{"id": "2314930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314930", "title": "Tordera", "text": "Tordera\n\nTordera is a city in the comarca of Maresme, province of Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain, situated 64 km from Barcelona and 36 km from Girona on the edge of the Montnegre natural park. Its population as of 2010 was 15,641.\n\nThe economy used to be based on agriculture, especially cork production, but has diversified into textile manufacturing and construction.\n\nThe Tordera River flows through the town.\n\nThe Romanesque church of Saint Stephen is situated in the town centre: part of the altar is original, but the rest of the building was renovated in the 16th and 18th centuries.\n\n"}
{"id": "2314934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314934", "title": "Power Lunch", "text": "Power Lunch\n\nPower Lunch is a television business news program on CNBC, airing between 2 p.m. and 3 p.m. Eastern Time. It is presented by Tyler Mathisen, Melissa Lee, and Kelly Evans.\n\nBill Griffeth anchored the program alone from 1996 to 2002. Caruso-Cabrera joined as Griffeth's original co-presenter from February 4, 2002 to December 5, 2003, before being replaced by Sue Herera, who debuted three days later. Caruso-Cabrera and Dennis Kneale appeared regularly in their respective analyst capacities until both became full co-presenters in 2009. Mathisen joined the program on December 14, 2009, after Griffeth's leave of absence began.\n\n\"Power Lunch\" originally aired for two hours (noon to 2 ET) until June 7, 2010, when it moved to 1 ET, with its run-time cut to 1 hour, making room for \"The Strategy Session\" at noon ET and the \"Fast Money Halftime Report\" at 12:30 ET. The show became a 2-hour program once again on February 9, 2015, with run-time then from 1-3 p.m. ET, replacing \"Street Signs\" (which aired its final edition three days prior). Sullivan and Amanda Drury, both of whom previously co-anchored \"Street Signs\", joined the program the same day, along with current \"Fast Money\" and \"Options Action\" host Melissa Lee. They replaced Herera, who left three days earlier. Caruso-Cabrera rejoined the program for her third stint as co-presenter on January 19, 2016 after Amanda Drury's departure from CNBC US (in the case of the latter, she rejoined CNBC Asia as a Sydney-based correspondent that July). On March 12, 2018, Sara Eisen (previously co-anchor of \"Worldwide Exchange\" and currently co-anchor of \"Squawk on the Street\") and Brian Sullivan swapped their respective anchor roles, with Eisen moving to \"Power Lunch\" and Sullivan moving to \"Worldwide Exchange\". On November 30, 2018, Eisen and Kelly Evans swapped their respective anchor roles, with the former moving to \"Closing Bell\" and Evans moving to \"Power Lunch\". On January 7, 2019 \"Power Lunch\" was halved in length due to the launch of a new program, \"The Exchange\", presented by Kelly Evans. Consequently, \"Power Lunch\" is once again a 60-minute program, running between 2 pm and 3 pm ET.\n\nOn October 13, 2014, \"Power Lunch\" was launched in full 1080i high-definition as part of CNBC's network-wide switch to a full 16:9 letterbox format.\n\nThis program examines the businesses, people, and trends that influence Wall Street, in addition to real-time market coverage at roughly the midway point of the U.S. trading day.\n\n\n\n\n\nIn the week of October 4, 1999, \"Power Lunch\" became \"Power Brunch\", because they broadcast the show live from Silicon Valley that week.\n\nIn May 2005, \"Power Lunch\" went on the road for its week-long \"Big Road Show\". Bill Griffeth hosted these week-long special editions from Miami, Phoenix, Dallas, and Los Angeles (Sue Herera was on maternity leave when these editions aired).\n\nOn September 7, 2007, \"Power Lunch\" began airing an eight-week series titled, \"Making Money Across America\", which concluded on October 26, 2007. These special road shows were aired on Fridays as this program visited eight U.S. cities over as many weeks. The dates and cities were:\n\n\nAround CNBC's global branches, there are many counterparts of \"Power Lunch\" in the world:\n\n"}
{"id": "2314935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314935", "title": "Ida of Formbach-Ratelnberg", "text": "Ida of Formbach-Ratelnberg\n\nIda of Austria ( 1055 – September 1101) was a Margravine of Austria by marriage to Leopold II of Austria. She was a crusader, participating in the Crusade of 1101 with her own army.\n\nIda was the daughter of Rapoto IV of Cham and Mathilde. She is also known as Itha. She married Leopold II of Austria and had a son, Leopold III. She was known as one of the great beauties of her day. \n\nIn 1101, Ida, alongside Thiemo of Salzburg and the dukes Welf IV of Bavaria and William IX of Bavaria, joined the Crusade of 1101, and raised and led her own army toward Jerusalem.\n\nIn September of that year, Ida and her army were among those ambushed at Heraclea Cybistra by the sultan Kilij Arslan I. Ekkehard of Aura reports that Ida was killed in the fighting, but rumors persisted that she survived, and was carried off to a harem. Later legends claimed that she was the mother of the Muslim hero Zengi, but this is impossible on chronological grounds.\n\nIda's fate is depicted in \"Beloved Pilgrim\" by Christopher Hawthorne (2011).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314936", "title": "Burlada", "text": "Burlada\n\nBurlada () is a municipality in Navarre province, Spain on the outskirts of the city of Pamplona.\n\n"}
{"id": "2314946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314946", "title": "Jean Baptiste Marius Augustin Challamel", "text": "Jean Baptiste Marius Augustin Challamel\n\nJean Baptiste Marius Augustin Challamel (March 18, 1818 – October 20, 1894) was a French historian.\n\nChallamel was born in Paris. His writings consist chiefly of popular works, which enjoyed great success. The value of some of his books is enhanced by numerous illustrations, e.g. \"Histoire-musée de la Révolution française\", which appeared in 50 numbers in 1841–1842 (3rd ed., in 72 numbers, 1857–1858); \"Histoire de la mode en France; la toilette des femmes depuis l'époque gallo-romaine jusqu'à nos jours\" (1874, with 12 plates; new ed., 1880, with 21 colored plates). His \"Mémoires du peuple français (\"1865–1873) and \"La France et les Français à travers les siècles\" (1882) at least have the merit of being among the first books written on the social history of France. In this sense Challamel was a pioneer, of no great originality, it is true, but at any rate of fairly wide information. He died on October 20, 1894.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314953", "title": "Nicholas Vaux, 1st Baron Vaux of Harrowden", "text": "Nicholas Vaux, 1st Baron Vaux of Harrowden\n\nNicholas Vaux, 1st Baron Vaux of Harrowden (c. 1460 – 14 May 1523) was a soldier and courtier in England and an early member of the House of Commons. He was the son of Lancastrian loyalists, Sir William Vaux of Harrowden and Katherine Penyson (or Peniston as she is sometimes called in later sources), a lady of the household of Queen Margaret of Anjou, wife of the Lancastrian king, Henry VI of England. Katherine was daughter of Gregorio Panizzone of Courticelle (modern Cortiglione), in Piedmont, Italy which was at that time subject to King René of Anjou, father of Queen Margaret of Anjou, as ruler of Provence. He grew up during the years of Yorkist rule, and later served under the founder of the Tudor dynasty, Henry VII.\n\nNicholas Vaux's mother, Katherine, an attendant on Margaret of Anjou, remained constant to her mistress when others forsook the Lancastrian cause. Katherine's husband, Sir William Vaux, whom she had married not long before she obtained her letters of denization, was attainted in 1461 and later slain at the Battle of Tewkesbury. Despite her husband's misfortune, Katherine Vaux remained loyal to her mistress: she stayed by the Queen during her imprisonment in the Tower of London, and on Margaret's release in 1476 went with her into exile (as she had done earlier in the 1460s), living with her until her death six years later. Katherine's two children did not share either her confinement or her travels abroad; instead, Nicholas Vaux and his sister Joan, were brought up in the household of Lady Margaret Beaufort (mother of Henry VII), without charge, even though Edward IV restored two manors to the family for the maintenance of him and his sister.\n\nKatherine's devotion was rewarded after the triumph of Henry VII at Bosworth, where Nicholas Vaux, as a protégé of Lady Margaret Beaufort, probably fought under her husband Thomas Stanley, 1st Earl of Derby; the petition for the reversal of the attainder on Vaux's father and the forfeiture of his property was accepted by the King in the Parliament of 1485, and not long after Vaux was named to the commission of the peace for his home county.\n\nHe fought for Henry VII at Stoke and Blackheath, being knighted on the field for his service in both battles. Not only was he active and diligent in local government but he was also frequently at court attending all the great state occasions at home and abroad until his death; in 1511 he entertained Henry VIII at Harrowden. It was as a soldier and diplomat, however, that he made his mark. Given the important command at Guisnes, he distinguished himself during the Tournai campaign in 1513 and then in the missions (he had had some earlier experiences in negotiating, chiefly with Burgundy) to the French King about the English withdrawal and the several royal marriage treaties. Later, he was one of the devisers of the Field of the Cloth of Gold. His sister, Joan, had also benefited from the change of dynasty: she entered the royal household, became governess to Henry VII's daughters and married successively Sir Richard Guildford and the father of Sir Nicholas Poyntz, Sir Anthony Poyntz.\n\nVaux was a natural candidate for election to Parliament, although in the absence of so many returns for the early Tudor period he is known to have been a Member only in 1515 when he and Sir John Hussey took a memorandum on certain Acts from the Commons up to the Lords. Presumably, he sat for his own shire on this occasion as he was afterwards appointed to the Northamptonshire commission for the subsidy which he had helped to grant.\n\nVaux married firstly Elizabeth FitzHugh, widow of Sir William Parr of Kendal, daughter of Sir Henry, 5th Baron FitzHugh of Ravensworth, and Lady Alice Neville. The wedding took place most likely after Richard III was defeated by Henry Tudor (later King Henry VII). The marriage was most likely to secure the allegiance of Elizabeth and her family to the Tudor dynasty. Elizabeth's mother was a niece of Cecily Neville, Duchess of York, so the new queen consort Elizabeth of York was a blood relation. By Elizabeth, Vaux had three daughters; Katherine, Alice, and Anne. Elizabeth died on 29 January 1508.\n\nShortly after the death of his first wife, Lord Vaux married, secondly, Anne Green, daughter and co-heiress of Sir Thomas Green of Boughton and Green's Norton, Northamptonshire, and Jane Fogge, by whom he had two sons and three daughters. Anne was the sister of Maud Green, mother of Henry VIII's sixth wife, Catherine Parr. On 4 September 1514, Anne accompanied her husband on his journey to bring the King's sister, Princess Mary, to her wedding to Louis XII of France in Abbeville, France. Both were present at the Field of the Cloth of Gold in 1520 where they attended upon the King and Queen. The two were joined by Sir Thomas Parr, his wife Maud Green, and Thomas's brother, Sir William Parr of Horton. Anne predeceased Lord Vaux.\n\nBy Elizabeth he had three daughters:\n\n\nBy Anne Green he had two sons and three daughters:\n\n\nSir Nicholas Vaux is an important character in William Shakespeare's \"Henry VIII\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2314956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314956", "title": "Barirah mawla Aisha", "text": "Barirah mawla Aisha\n\nBarirah mawla Aisha was an Arab slave-girl who belonged to Utbah ibn Abu Lahab. She was forced to marry another slave whose name was Mughith, somebody she did not approve of. She had a child with him. Aisha took pity on her and bought her and set her free. When the young woman was free and in control of her own affairs, she divorced him. Mughith used to follow her, weeping, whilst she rejected him.\n\nSahih Bukhari quotes Ibn Abbas:\n\nMuslims note here that when she asked if it was a commandment, obligatory to follow, Muhammad said that he simply was merely trying to intercede and bring about reconciliation if possible; he was not trying to force anybody to do something they did not wish to. See also Talaq.\n\n"}
{"id": "2314957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314957", "title": "Rufus Hessberg", "text": "Rufus Hessberg\n\nDr. Rufus Hessberg was an Army Medical Corps doctor during World War II and later was a pioneer aeromedical scientist. He served as an early instructor at the Air Rescue Specialists Course at Gunter AFB, Alabama in 1949, teaching some of the Air Force's first Pararescuemen. He went on to head the animal research group for Project Mercury. He served for several years as an Executive Vice President of the Aerospace Medical Association before retiring in 1991.\n"}
{"id": "2314966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314966", "title": "Tom Huddlestone", "text": "Tom Huddlestone\n\nThomas Andrew Huddlestone (born 28 December 1986) is an English professional footballer who plays as a defensive midfielder for club Derby County.\n\nHaving progressed through the youth ranks at Nottingham Forest and Derby County, Huddlestone began his professional career in 2003 with the latter club. He quickly broke into the first team, and made 88 league appearances before switching to Tottenham Hotspur in 2005. Having spent some of the 2005–06 season on loan to Wolverhampton Wanderers, where he made 13 league appearances, he began to break into the Tottenham team during the 2006–07 season, and became a regular player for the club. However, he struggled with injury problems during the 2011–12 season, and fell out of favour. He joined Hull City in August 2013, having made 144 league appearances for Tottenham.\n\nHuddlestone represented England at under-16, under-17, under-19 and under-20 levels before making his under-21 debut in 2005. He was a regular for the under-21 team between 2005 and 2009, and made 33 appearances. He made senior full England debut in 2009, and has since gone on to make three further appearances.\n\nBorn in Nottingham, Nottinghamshire, Huddlestone was taken on by Nottingham Forest at an early age but was released at 12 as he was claimed to be \"not strong enough\". He joined Derby County and after progressing well, made his debut for Derby County's reserve team at the age of just 15, when he appeared as an 80th minute substitute at right wingback in a match against Coventry City.\n\nHe was given his first-team debut by George Burley at the age of 16 on the opening day of the 2003–04 season in a 3–0 home defeat to Stoke City, where he was voted Man of the Match. Though Derby struggled in Huddlestone's first full season, Huddlestone was one of Derby's few bright points, with Burley saying \"He's a terrific talent. As a young player, he (is) the best passer of a ball I (have) ever seen, and I've worked with some good young players.\" He eventually went on to appear in 43 of Derby's 46 league matches that season. He enjoyed an equally successful 2004–05 as Derby reached the First Division play-offs, where they lost to Preston North End in the semi-final. However, halfway through the season Huddlestone signed for Premier League club Tottenham Hotspur in January 2005 for a fee reported to be worth up to £2.5 million, though he remained at Derby for the rest of the season. He had made a total of 95 appearances for Derby, without scoring.\n\nHuddlestone spent a few months of the 2005–06 season on loan to Wolverhampton Wanderers, scoring his first league goal, at Derby, before returning to make his debut for Tottenham as a substitute in the 1–0 defeat away at Fulham on 31 January 2006.\n\nHis first start for Tottenham came on 14 September 2006, away to Slavia Prague in the UEFA Cup, a match that Tottenham won 1–0. His first goal for Tottenham came in the League Cup fourth round match against Port Vale on 8 November 2006. Huddlestone scored two goals in this match, his second goal proving decisive in extra time, taking Tottenham through to the quarter-final of the competition. Huddlestone got his first league goal for Tottenham on 17 December 2006 against Manchester City with an excellent half-volley on 24 minutes, hit first-time after assisting with teammate Calum Davenport's first goal with a free-kick. Huddlestone established himself as one of the most promising young English central midfielders in the Premier League towards the end of the 2006–07 season and head coach Martin Jol compared Tom Huddlestone with German legend Franz Beckenbauer due to his playmaking abilities, ferocious shot power and versatility.\n\nOn 25 December 2006, he signed a new four and a half-year contract – keeping him at the club until 2011. Tom signed a new and improved five-year contract on 30 June 2008 committing his future to Tottenham until 2013. He came on as a substitute as Tottenham beat Chelsea in the 2008 League Cup Final at Wembley Stadium. During the 2009–10 season, he became a regular under Harry Redknapp. In March 2010, he extended his contract until 2015. Huddlestone was plagued with injury during the 2011–12 season and managed only four appearances for the club. Huddlestone returned for the 2012–13 season and made his first appearance as a substitute for Jermain Defoe against Norwich City on 1 September 2012. He was shown a red card for serious foul play, the match ended in a disappointing 1–1 draw. The red card was later rescinded.\n\nOn 14 August 2013, Huddlestone moved to Hull City for an undisclosed fee believed to be about £5.25 million. He made his debut on the first day of the 2013–14 season when he came off the bench in a 2–0 loss away at Chelsea. On 28 December, he scored his first goal for Hull in a 6–0 home win against Fulham, his first goal since April 2011. On 28 January 2014, Huddlestone acted as emergency goalkeeper after Hull City's goalkeeper Allan McGregor was sent off for squaring up with Crystal Palace's player Stuart O'Keefe. With Hull already making three substitutions, Hull's manager Steve Bruce ordered Huddlestone to take over the goalkeeping role.\n\nOn 13 April 2014, he scored Hull's third goal in their 5–3 FA Cup semi-final victory over Sheffield United at Wembley Stadium. On 17 May 2014, Huddlestone started in the 2014 FA Cup Final against Arsenal at Wembley Stadium, in which Hull were beaten 3–2 after extra time.\n\nOn 1 July 2016, he signed a new two-year deal with the club.\n\nOn 15 July 2017, Huddlestone returned to boyhood club Derby County, by signing a two-year contract, with an option of a third season, for an undisclosed fee, believed to be around £2 million. He scored his first goal for Derby in a 3–0 home win against Brentford on 3 February 2018, more than 14 years after his debut for the club.\n\nHaving been capped at the U-17 and U-19 levels, Huddlestone was a regular in the England under-21s. He played twice in the 2007 UEFA European Under-21 Championship before a red card for dissent ruled him out of the semi-final and final. In October 2008, he scored the opening goal from a free kick in the second leg of the 2009 UEFA European Under-21 Championship qualification play-offs against Wales. Although the match ended in a draw which ensured qualification for England, it was marred by his sending-off in the second half for a reckless challenge on Darcy Blake. He missed the tournament through injury.\n\nHe was called up into the England squad for the first time by coach Fabio Capello to face the United States and Trinidad and Tobago in friendlies. On 14 November 2009, he received his first cap for the senior team in the 1–0 loss in a friendly against Brazil, after coming on as a substitute in the 81st minute. His next appearances came in a 2010 FIFA World Cup warm up match against Mexico, where he came on in as a substitute in the 61st minute. His latest appearance for England also came in a World Cup warm-up match against Japan where he started for the first time in 2–1 victory.\n\nIn May 2010, Fabio Capello announced that Huddlestone would be in his preliminary World Cup squad of 30 players. However, was not selected for the final 23-man squad. On 11 November 2012, new England manager Roy Hodgson gave Huddlestone his first call up to the squad for two years for a friendly match against Sweden on 14 November.\n\nHe is known for his passing ability, which has led to comparisons with former Tottenham player Glenn Hoddle. He also has a powerful shot that has enabled him to score long-range goals from midfield.\n\nShortly after scoring a goal for Tottenham against Arsenal in April 2011, Huddlestone accepted a challenge not to cut his hair until he scored again, to raise money for charity. It took him two-and-a-half years, and 55 matches, before he finally scored his next goal (in a Premier League match for Hull against Fulham on 28 December 2013), and he raised more than £57,000 for Cancer Research UK as a result.\n\nTottenham Hotspur\n\nHull City\n\nIndividual\n\n"}
{"id": "2314972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314972", "title": "Olde Towne Brewing Company", "text": "Olde Towne Brewing Company\n\nOlde Towne Brewing Company was a brewery located in Huntsville, Alabama, United States. Founded in 2004, the Olde Towne Brewing Company was the first microbrewery in Huntsville since the repeal of Prohibition.\n\nThe brewery debuted August 12, 2004, at Humphrey's Bar & Grill, a local establishment. In the early hours of July 5, 2007, the building that housed the company, a part of the former Fowler's Department Store, suffered a fire and was a complete loss. In summer 2008 the brewery finished rebuilding and their beer was again available for sale in Huntsville in August. Distribution was limited to north and central Alabama. Olde Towne stopped bottling beer December 2010, stopped brewing February 2011, and ceased operations.\n\nDon Alan Hankins was the original brewmaster and co-owner of the company. Daniel Stearns was the last brewmaster.\n\nAs of late July 2008, all four regular Olde Towne beers were fermenting Amber, Pale Ale, Hefeweizen, and Pilsner, and were kegged in preparation for sale on draught first. Bottling resumed later in 2008. They also brought back their seasonal brews, including a Porter, a Pumpkin Ale and a Bock. Olde Towne started contract brewing with the introduction of their Chocolate Stout, which was commissioned by The Nook, a local craft brew lounge, in Huntsville. Before the fire, Olde Towne had stopped production of the Extra Pale Ale and it did not return.\n"}
{"id": "2314977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314977", "title": "John Andrew Martin", "text": "John Andrew Martin\n\nJohn Andrew Martin (April 10, 1868 – December 23, 1939) was an American journalist, attorney, soldier, and politician, who represented Colorado in the U.S. House of Representatives. He recruited troops and commanded the 115th Supply Train, Fortieth Division during World War I.\n\nHe was born in Cincinnati, Ohio, a son of Hugh and Ann (Bohan) Martin. He acquired a public school education in Mexico and in Fulton, Missouri until he was twelve years old and began working in a tobacco factory. He moved with his parents to Kansas in 1884 and worked on a farm in Turon.\n\nHe came to Colorado in 1887. He was employed on railroad construction work and as a locomotive fireman from 1887 to 1894; He worked on the construction of the Colorado Midland Railroad and then as a locomotive engineer on the Santa Fe. He became publisher of the \"La Junta Times\" and was member of the city council of La Junta in 1895 and 1896. He studied law and was admitted to the bar in 1896. In 1897, he began practicing law in Pueblo.\n\nHe was a member of the State house of representatives in 1901 and 1902. He was the city attorney in 1905 and 1906. He was elected as a Democrat to the 61st and 62nd Congresses (March 4, 1909-March 3, 1913). He declined to be a candidate for reelection in 1912 and resumed the practice of law. He was again the city attorney in 1916 and 1917.\n\nAt the outbreak of the First World War, he was attempted to enlist, but was denied due to his age and he was the head of a family. Undeterred, he recruited a volunteer battalion of National Guardsmen in Pueblo and was commissioned a major over the group of men that he recruited. He commanded the 115th Supply Train, Fortieth Division. After the war, he was a member of the San Isabel Chapter Number 2 of the Disabled American Veterans of the World War. He was also post commander of the Pueblo Post Number 2 of the American Legion.\n\nHe resumed the practice of law in Pueblo, Colorado. Twenty years after his first service in the House of Representatives, he was elected to the 73rd Congress and to the three succeeding Congresses and served from March 4, 1933, until his death. During that time, he worked on the Railroad Retirement Act of 1935 and the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act. Among his other efforts, he framed holding company legislation while on the House Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee.\n\nOn September 6, 1892 or 1902, he married Rose May Chitwood at Wellington, Kansas. They had a daughter, Stella. He wrote a novel based on the lives of his wife's parents who were pioneer settlers in Kansas. Published in 1908, it depicted the \"dawn life of the prairie West and its people.\"\n\nHe contacted a case of ptomaine poisoning and died in Washington, D.C. on December 23, 1939. He was buried in Mountain View Cemetery, Pueblo, Colorado.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2314982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314982", "title": "Looker", "text": "Looker\n\nLooker is a 1981 American science-fiction thriller–horror film written and directed by Michael Crichton and starring Albert Finney, Susan Dey, and James Coburn. The film is a suspense/science-fiction piece that comments upon and satirizes media, advertising, television's effects on the populace, and a ridiculous standard of beauty.\n\nThough sparse in visual effects, the film is notable for being the first commercial film to attempt to make a realistic computer-generated character, for the model named Cindy. It was also the first film to create three-dimensional (3D) shading with a computer, months before the release of the better-known \"Tron\".\n\nDr. Larry Roberts (Finney), a Beverly Hills plastic surgeon, is puzzled when four beautiful models working in television commercials request cosmetic surgery to make changes so minor as to be imperceptible to the naked eye. When these models later start dying under mysterious circumstances, he discovers they are all linked to the same advertisement research firm.\n\nThe Digital Matrix research firm rates advertising models using a scoring system to measure the combined visual impact of various physical attributes in television commercials. In an experiment to increase their scores, some models are sent to Dr. Roberts to get cosmetic surgery to maximize their visual impact. Though the models are physically perfect after the surgery, they still are not as effective as desired, so the research firm decides to use a different approach. Each model is offered a contract to have her body scanned digitally to create 3D computer-generated models, then the 3D models are animated for use in commercials. The contracts seem to be incredibly lucrative for the models; once their bodies are represented digitally, they get a paycheck for life, never having to work again, since their digital models are used for all their future work in commercials.\n\nHowever, when these same models start dying under mysterious circumstances, Roberts becomes suspicious and decides to investigate Digital Matrix. He has a strong interest in investigating the deaths: he is considered a prime suspect by the police (from evidence planted at the scene of one of the murders) and his most recent patient, (with whom he is in a relationship) Cindy (Susan Dey). Cindy is the last of the models to be digitally scanned.\n\nDuring his investigation, Roberts discovers some advanced technology that the Digital Matrix corporation is using to hypnotize consumers into buying the products they advertise. He also discovers the Light Ocular-Oriented Kinetic Emotive Responses (L.O.O.K.E.R.) gun, a light pulse device that gives the illusion of invisibility by instantly mesmerizing its victims into losing all sense of time.\n\n\nCrichton started thinking about the subject of the film in 1975. He says he went to a Los Angeles computer company to find out how they could create copies in commercials without looking too ridiculous and discovered a company in Texas was already doing it, called tomography.\n\n\"Looker\" became an early production of The Ladd Company. It was Leigh Taylor-Young's first film in eight years.\n\n\"Looker\" was poorly received by critics. The film holds a 29% rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on 21 reviews. It was also unsuccessful at the box office.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2315008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315008", "title": "Magas (disambiguation)", "text": "Magas (disambiguation)\n\nMagas is the capital of the Republic of Ingushetia, Russia.\n\nMagas may also refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2315011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315011", "title": "Joseph Chalier", "text": "Joseph Chalier\n\nJoseph Chalier (1747 – 1793) was a French Revolutionist.\n\nChalier was born in Beaulard, Susa Valley, Piedmont. As a young man, Chalier's family hoped he would take a career in the church. But instead he became a partner in a law firm in Lyon. Because of his job with the firm, he traveled to Levant, Italy, Spain and Portugal. While living in Paris in 1789, he became acquainted with Marat, Camille Desmoulins and Robespierre. After returning to Lyon, Chalier was the first person to be named as a member of the municipal bureau. While in this position he organized the national guard, applied the Civil Constitution of the Clergy, and engineered the finances of the city so that the rich were heavily taxed and the poor relatively spared.\n\nFor making a nocturnal domiciliary perquisition, Chalier was denounced in front of the Legislative Assembly by the département of Rhône-et-Loire. However, the Assembly's bar did not disapprove of his conduct. Chalier later ran for mayor of Lyon in November 1792, but lost to the Royalist opposition. Soon after, Chalier became the leader of the Jacobins of Lyon, a move which ultimately led to his demise.\n\nWorking with other revolutionary clubs and communes in the city, he led the Jacobins to arrest a great number of Royalists during the nights of the 5th and 6 February 1793. This brought him into direct conflict with the mayor of Lyons, who had the support of the National Guard. Undeterred, Chalier demanded of the Convention an establishment of a revolutionary tribunal and a revolutionary army stationed in Lyon. The Convention refused and the anti-revolutionary party took action. On the 29th and 30 May 1793, the different sections of the Convention rose against him. The Jacobins were dispossessed of the municipality and Chalier was arrested. On the 15th of July, he was brought before the criminal tribunal of the Rhône-et-Loire, which condemned him to death. He was guillotined the next day in Lyon. Soon after, the revolutionary forces during the \"reign of terror\" held his memory in high esteem, as a martyr for Liberty.\n"}
{"id": "2315021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315021", "title": "Ektar", "text": "Ektar\n\nKodak Ektar is a professional color negative film introduced in 2008, designed for nature, outdoors, fashion, and product photography. The film offers ultra-fine grains, ultra-vivid colors, and high saturation, and is available in ISO 100 only. \n\nAnother film named \"Ektar\" was introduced in 1989 By Eastman Kodak as a semi-professional color negative film, but it was later discontinued and was replaced by Royal Gold. \n\nPrior to its use on films, the Ektar name originally referred to Eastman Kodak's premium-priced lenses for professional use, which were introduced in 1936 and sold until the 1960s. The name \"Ektar\" is an acronym for Eastman Kodak TessAR.\n\nEktar started as a color 35mm and 120 semi-professional film introduced by Eastman Kodak in 1989, which used the common C-41 process. It was designed to offer ultra-fine grain. It was manufactured in 25, 100 (replaced the poor selling 125 in June 1991 ), and 1000 ISO formats. 400 speed film was available until 1997. Poor market segmentation was cited as a factor in Kodak's decision to discontinue Ektar in 1994. The film was replaced by the Royal Gold line. The 120 version of Ektar was discontinued in 1997.\n\nA new film was introduced in September 2008 under the name Kodak EKTAR 100, which claims to be the finest-grain color negative film with high saturation and vivid colors available on the market. The film was initially only offered in 35mm, but later the film offering was expanded to include 120 size film, then 4x5 and 8x10 sheet sizes in 2010.\n\nEktar 100 is very suitable for digitizing using a film scanner.\n\n"}
{"id": "2315022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315022", "title": "Gotham by Gaslight", "text": "Gotham by Gaslight\n\nGotham by Gaslight is a DC Comics one-shot by Brian Augustyn and Mike Mignola, with inks by P. Craig Russell. The story revolves around a 19th-century version of Bruce Wayne making his debut as Batman just as Jack the Ripper has arrived in Gotham City.\n\nAlthough it was not initially labeled as such, \"Gotham by Gaslight\" is considered to be the first Elseworlds story in which DC Comics characters from alternate timelines or realities are featured in stories outside of the DC Universe canon. While not originally labelled as such, subsequent printings of \"Gotham by Gaslight\" have incorporated the Elseworlds logo. It spawned one sequel, Batman: Master of the Future (1991), also written by Augustyn, with art by Eduardo Barreto.\n\nIn 1889, Bruce Wayne is on a tour of Europe which ends in Vienna. There he is studying under Dr. Freud. Bruce tells Freud that he has a recurring dream in which he recalls the murder of his parents and decides he must return to Gotham City. On the return trip, Bruce meets Jacob Packer, an old family friend whom he calls Uncle Jake, who also returned from a trip to Europe.\n\nShortly after arriving, Inspector Gordon informs Wayne about criminal gangs currently operating in Gotham. Gordon also shows Bruce the case of a man who poisoned his wife and tried to commit suicide with the poison, which left him alive with a permanent grin. Bruce takes up the mantle of Batman to fight criminals on the street.\n\nAt the same time, a series of murders of women take place and some people begin to suspect that Batman is the murderer. It is soon discovered that Jack the Ripper has come to Gotham, as the murders in Gotham City seem to resemble the Ripper murders.\n\nAfter a search of Wayne Manor, a bloody knife is found under Bruce's bed and Bruce is arrested. A trial is held in which Uncle Jake is Bruce's defense attorney. After the trial, Bruce is convicted of being the Ripper and sentenced to be hanged for his crimes. Bruce is imprisoned in Arkham Asylum.\n\nOnce Bruce is in prison, Gordon gives him all the documentation on the crimes. Bruce toils day and night to try to figure out how he can get the Ripper. Just one day before the execution, Bruce learns the identity of the Ripper by discovering he had the skill of a surgeon and used a knife that belonged to the medical group who worked with his father. Bruce escapes from prison with the help of Alfred and heads straight for the Ripper.\n\nBatman interrupts the Ripper as he is about to claim his next victim. Batman chases the Ripper throughout Gotham and the two eventually come to a stop at the grave of Thomas and Martha Wayne, where it is revealed that Jacob Packer is the Ripper. Packer had been trained in medicine and law with the money of Thomas Wayne, but he was driven insane by Martha Wayne's rejection of his advances. Since then he had been killing women who resembled Martha to silence the laughter of Martha he heard in his head.\n\nPacker reveals that he hired an assassin to kill Bruce's parents. Gordon appears at this time with the police and Batman tells them to arrest Packer. Packer confesses that he is the Ripper and tries to kill Batman, but Gordon shoots Packer dead at the last minute. Batman disappears into the shadows, leaving Gordon to take in the body of Jack the Ripper.\n\nIn 1892, three years later, Bruce has \"retired\" his alter-ego and is engaged to be married. Having brought his parents' murderer to justice, he has come to regard being Batman as a childish fancy, and intends to devote his life to more serious pursuits. Others believe that Gotham City needs Batman more than ever, namely now-Commissioner Gordon and Bruce's own fiancée, Julie Madison (who Batman rescued from a late-night assault).\n\nAt a City Council meeting, Mayor Tolliver (the former Police Commissioner who aggressively prosecuted Bruce as the suspected Ripper) is promoting Gotham's hosting of the \"American Discovery Exposition\" to market Gotham as the \"City of the Future\". The meeting is interrupted by the flamboyant Alexandre LeRoi, who demands that he be proclaimed master of the city, or else he will burn it to the ground. He leaps out the window before he can be arrested, and Tolliver insists that the fair proceed.\n\nWhile the fairgrounds are being erected, a Maxim Gun on an automated carriage rolls in and opens fire. Bruce, in attendance, pushes Tolliver out of the line of fire and disables the machine.\n\nOn the opening day of the fair, LeRoi kidnaps Tolliver from his mansion and takes him aboard an airship, forcing him to watch as LeRoi focuses a giant burning glass on the fair's main pavilion, before LeRoi throws Tolliver over the side to his death. Bruce is desperate to act, when Alfred arrives with his costume.\n\nWith the police fully occupied, Julie runs into the burning pavilion to rescue a small girl, but both of them are trapped by falling debris. Batman saves them, then fashions an improvised glider and takes off after LeRoi's airship. The two men engage in a brutal rapier duel that disables LeRoi's robotic pilot \"Antonio\", causing the airship to drift off course and become unstable. Noticing this, Batman urges LeRoi to surrender and abandon ship, but LeRoi refuses to believe him. Batman jumps overboard, but LeRoi is trapped as the airship crashes into the ocean and explodes. More than a hundred people are killed by LeRoi's fires, but further fatalities and destruction are prevented by the Gotham police and firefighters.\n\nBatman confronts Councilman Franklin Claypool, who confesses to being LeRoi's accomplice and providing him with information for his attack. Claypool secretly owns a large portion of Gotham City's slum housing, which he expected to sell profitably through his proposed redevelopment program, but the program was pushed aside by Tolliver in favor of the fair. LeRoi agreed to target Claypool's properties, allowing Claypool to collect a lucrative insurance payout, but Claypool never intended the deaths that LeRoi's actions caused, and so does not resist when Gordon arrives to arrest him.\n\nBruce and Julie are walking along a hilltop overlooking the city, when she reveals that she recognized him at the fair, even through his mask. Apprehensively, he asks her what she plans to do, and she replies, what she has always done: continue to love and encourage him, especially now that they both agree that Gotham still needs Batman.\n\n\"Gotham by Gaslight\", which retroactively became the first official Elseworlds publication, was initially released as a 52-page one-shot in February 1989. It was written by Brian Augustyn and pencilled by Mike Mignola, with inks by P. Craig Russell. Two years later, the 68-page sequel \"Batman: Master of the Future\" — also written by Augustyn, but with art by Eduardo Barreto — was released, this time officially labelled an Elseworlds publication.\n\nIn 2006, in the wake of the 2005–2006 storyline \"Infinite Crisis\", the \"Gotham by Gaslight\" world was identified as \"Earth-19\".\n\nPrior to its appearance in \"Countdown Presents: The Search for Ray Palmer: Gotham by Gaslight\" (January 2008), the two one-shot issues were collected into one 112-page trade paperback volume (which was released under the same name, and with the same Mignola cover as the one-shot release).\n\nThe two stories have been collected into a trade paperback.\n\n\nIGN Comics ranked \"Gotham by Gaslight\" #11 on a list of the 25 greatest Batman graphic novels, saying that the comic is \"as taut and well-conceived a graphic novel as you can find — Elseworlds or otherwise,\" they add, \"quite simply, no other Elseworlds tale has managed such a brilliant concept nor executed it so perfectly.\"\n\n\"Gotham by Gaslight\" was not the highest-ranking Elseworlds story on the list, as \"Batman & Dracula: Red Rain\" ranked higher at #9.\n\n\"Countdown Presents: The Search for Ray Palmer: Gotham by Gaslight\" (January 2008) and was written by \"Gotham by Gaslight\"'s original author, Brian Augustyn. The story saw Bob the Monitor accompany Jason Todd, Donna Troy, and Kyle Rayner (the latter three inhabitants of \"New Earth\") through the Multiverse in search of multiuniversal counterparts to Ray Palmer. The group arrived on Earth-19, the Earth where the Batman of the earlier two \"Elseworlds\" storylines acted, there, they also encountered this Earth's counterpart of the Blue Beetle and the Man-Bat before they went to the next Earth to continue their search. Their search would take them to worlds populated by characters from other \"Elseworlds\" stories, including those seen in the \"Batman & Dracula\" trilogy (Earth-43) and \"\" (Earth-30).\n\nAdditionally, the \"Gotham by Gaslight\" Batman was briefly featured in the limited series \"\", among other alternate versions of the character.\n\n\"\" is an animated loose adaptation released in 2018. It features Bruce Greenwood as Batman and Jennifer Carpenter as Selina Kyle. The adaptation differs significantly from the original comic, and includes elements from both books.\n\n\n\nOther \"Elseworlds\" that involve Jack the Ripper:\n\n"}
{"id": "2315029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315029", "title": "Neural adaptation", "text": "Neural adaptation\n\nNeural adaptation or sensory adaptation is a gradual decrease over time in the responsiveness of the sensory system to a constant stimulus. It is usually experienced as a change in the stimulus. For example, if a hand is rested on a table, the table's surface is immediately felt against the skin. Subsequently, however, the sensation of the table surface against the skin gradually diminishes until it is virtually unnoticeable. The sensory neurons that initially respond are no longer stimulated to respond; this is an example of neural adaptation.\n\nAll sensory and neural systems have a form of adaptation to constantly detect changes in the environment. Neural receptor cells that process and receive stimulation go through constant changes for mammals and other living organisms to sense vital changes in their environment. Some key players in several neural systems include Caions (see Calcium in biology) that send negative feedback in second messenger pathways that allow the neural receptor cells to close or open channels in response to the changes of ion flow. There are also mechanoreception systems that use calcium inflow to physically affect certain proteins and move them to close or open channels.\n\nFunctionally, it is highly possible that adaptation may enhance the limited response range of neurons to encode sensory signals with much larger dynamic ranges by shifting the range of stimulus amplitudes. Also, in neural adaptation there is a sense of returning to baseline from a stimulated response. Recent work suggests that these baseline states are actually determined by long-term adaptation to the environment. Varying rates or speed of adaptation is an important indicator for tracking different rates of change in the environment or the organism itself.\n\nCurrent research shows that although adaptation occurs at multiple stages of each sensory pathway, it is often stronger and more stimulus specific at \"cortical\" level rather than \"subcortical stages\". In short, neural adaptation is thought to happen at a more central level at the cortex.\n\nThere is fast adaptation and slow adaptation. Fast adaptation occurs immediately after a stimulus is presented i.e., within hundreds of milliseconds. Slow adaptive processes can take minutes, hours or even days. The two classes of neural adaptation may rely on very different physiological mechanisms. The time scale over which adaptation builds up and recovers depends on the time course of stimulation. Brief stimulation produces adaptation which occurs and recovers while more prolonged stimulation can produce slower and more lasting forms of adaptation. Also, repeated sensory stimulation appears to temporarily decrease the gain of thalamocortical synaptic transmission. Adaptation of cortical responses was stronger and recovered more slowly.\n\nIn the late 1800s, Hermann Helmholtz, a German physician and physicist, extensively researched conscious sensations and different types of perception . He defined sensations as the \"raw elements\" of conscious experience that required no learning, and perceptions as the meaningful interpretations derived from the senses. He studied the physical properties of the eye and vision, as well as acoustic sensation. In one of his classic experiments regarding how space perception could be altered by experience, participants wore glasses that distorted the visual field by several degrees to the right. Participants were asked to look at an object, close their eyes, and try to reach out and touch it. At first, the subjects reached for the object too far to the left, but after a few trials were able to correct themselves.\n\nHelmholtz theorized that perceptual adaptation might result from a process he referred to as unconscious inference, where the mind unconsciously adopts certain rules in order to make sense of what is perceived of the world. An example of this phenomenon is when a ball appears to be getting smaller and smaller, the mind will then infer that the ball is moving away from them.\n\nIn the 1890s, psychologist George M. Stratton conducted experiments in which he tested the theory of perceptual adaptation. In one experiment, he wore a reversing glasses for 21½ hours over three days. After removing the glasses, \"normal vision was restored instantaneously and without any disturbance in the natural appearance or position of objects.\"\n\nOn a later experiment, Stratton wore the glasses for eight whole days. By day four, the images seen through the instrument were still upside down. However, on day five, images appeared upright until he concentrated on them; then they became inverted again. By having to concentrate on his vision to turn it upside down again, especially when he knew images were hitting his retinas in the opposite orientation as normal, Stratton deduced his brain had adapted to the changes in vision.\n\nStratton also conducted experiments where he wore glasses that altered his visual field by 45°. His brain was able to adapt to the change and perceive the world as normal. Also, the field can be altered making the subject see the world upside down. But, as the brain adjusts to the change, the world appears \"normal.\"\n\nIn some extreme experiments, psychologists have tested to see if a pilot can fly a plane with altered vision. All of the pilots that were fitted with the goggles that altered their vision were able to safely navigate the aircraft with ease.\n\nAdaptation is considered to be the cause of perceptual phenomena like afterimages and the motion aftereffect. In the absence of fixational eye movements, visual perception may fade out or disappear due to neural adaptation. (See Adaptation (eye)). When an observer's visual stream adapts to a single direction of real motion, imagined motion can be perceived at various speeds. If the imagined motion is in the same direction as that experienced during adaptation, imagined speed is slowed; when imagined motion is in the opposite direction, its speed is increased; when adaptation and imagined motions are orthogonal, imagined speed is unaffected. Studies using magnetoencephalography (MEG) have demonstrated that subjects exposed to a repeated visual stimulus at brief intervals become attenuated to the stimulus in comparison to the initial stimulus. The results revealed that visual responses to the repeated compared with novel stimulus showed a significant reduction in both activation strength and peak latency but not in the duration of neural processing.\n\nAlthough motion and images are extremely important regarding adaptation, the most important adaptation is adjusting to brightness levels. On entering a dark room or a very brightly lit room it takes a little while to adjust to the different levels. Adjusting to brightness levels allows mammals to detect changes in their surrounding. This is called dark adaptation.\n\nAuditory adaptation, as perceptual adaptation with other senses, is the process by which individuals adapt to sounds and noises. As research has shown, as time progresses, individuals tend to adapt to sounds and tend to distinguish them less frequently after a while. Sensory adaptation tends to blend sounds into one, variable sound, rather than having several separate sounds as a series. Moreover, after repeated perception, individuals tend to adapt to sounds to the point where they no longer consciously perceive it, or rather, \"block it out\". An individual that lives close to the train tracks, will eventually stop noticing the sounds of passing trains. Similarly, individuals living in larger cities no longer notice traffic sounds after a while. Moving to a completely different area, such as a quiet countryside, that individual would then be aware of the silence, crickets, etc.\n\nThe mechanoreception of sound requires a specific set of receptor cells called hair cells that allow for gradient signals to pass onto spatial ganglia where the signal will be sent to the brain to be processed. Since this is mechanoreception, different from chemoreception, adaptation of sound from surroundings highly depends on the physical movement of opening and closing of cation channels on the hair cell stereocilia. Mechanoelectric transduction (MET) channels, located at the tops of stereocilia, are poised to detect tension induced by hair bundle deflection. Hair bundle deflection generates a force by pulling on tip link proteins connecting adjacent stereocilia.\n\nPerceptual adaptation is a phenomenon that occurs for all of the senses, including smell and touch. An individual can adapt to a certain smell with time. Smokers, or individuals living with smokers, tend to stop noticing the smell of cigarettes after some time, whereas people not exposed to smoke on a regular basis will notice the smell instantly. The same phenomenon can be observed with other types of smell, such as perfume, flowers, etc. The human brain can distinguish smells that are unfamiliar to the individual, while adapting to those it is used to and no longer require to be consciously recognized.\n\nOlfactory neurons utilize a feedback system from the levels of Caions to activate its adaptation to prolonged smells. Due to the fact that the olfactory signal transduction uses a second messenger transduction system, the mechanism of adaptation includes several factors that mostly include CaMK or calmodulin bound to Caions.\n\nThis phenomenon also applies to the sense of touch. An unfamiliar piece of clothing that was just put on will be noticed instantly; however, once it has been worn for a while, the mind will adapt to its texture and ignore the stimulus.\n\nWhile large mechanosensory neurons such as type I/group Aß display adaptation, smaller type IV/group C nociceptive neurons do not. As a result, pain does not usually subside rapidly but persists for long periods of time; in contrast, other sensory information is quickly adapted to, if surroundings remain constant.\n\nStudies have shown that there is neural adaptation after as little as one weight training session. Strength gains are experienced by subjects without any increased muscle size. Muscle surface recordings using electromyographic (SEMG) techniques have found that early strength gains throughout training are associated with increased amplitude in SEMG activity. These findings along with various other theories explain increases in strength without increases in muscle mass. Other theories for increases in strength relating to neural adaptation include: agonist-antagonist muscle decreased co-activation, motor unit synchronization, and motor unit increased firing rates.\n\nNeural adaptations contribute to changes in V-waves and Hoffmann's reflex. H-reflex can be used to assess the excitability of spinal α-motoneurons, whereas V-wave measures the magnitude of motor output from α-motoneurons. Studies showed that after a 14-week resistance training regime, subjects expressed V-wave amplitude increases of ~50% and H-reflex amplitude increases of ~20%. This showed that neural adaptation accounts for changes to functional properties of the spinal cord circuitry in humans without affecting organization of the motor cortex.\n\nThe terms neural adaptation and habituation are often confused for one another. Habituation is a behavioral phenomenon while neural adaptation is a physiological phenomenon, although the two are not entirely separate. During habituation, one has some conscious control over whether one notices something to which one is becoming habituated. However, when it comes to neural adaptation, one has no conscious control over it. For example, if one has adapted to something (like an odor or perfume), one can not consciously force himself to smell that thing. Neural adaptation is tied very closely to stimulus intensity; as the intensity of a light increases, one's senses will adapt more strongly to it. In comparison, habituation can vary depending on the stimulus. With a weak stimulus habituation can occur almost immediately but with a strong stimulus the animal may not habituate at all e.g. a cool breeze versus a fire alarm. Habituation also has a set of characteristics that must be met to be termed a habituation process.\n\nShort term neural adaptations occur in the body during rhythmic activities. One of the most common activities when these neural adaptations are constantly happening is walking. As a person walks, the body constantly gathers information about the environment and the surroundings of the feet, and slightly adjusts the muscles in use according to the terrain. For example, walking uphill requires different muscles than walking on flat pavement. When the brain recognizes that the body is walking uphill, it makes neural adaptations that send more activity to muscles required for uphill walking.\nThe rate of neural adaptation is affected by the area of the brain and by the similarity between sizes and shapes of previous stimuli. Adaptations in the inferior temporal gyrus are very dependent on previous stimuli being of similar size, and somewhat dependent on previous stimuli being of a similar shape. Adaptations in the Prefrontal Cortex are less dependent on previous stimuli being of similar size and shape.\n\nSome rhythmic movements, such as respiratory movements, are essential for survival. Because these movements must be used over the course of the entire lifetime, it is important for them to function optimally. Neural adaptation has been observed in these movements in response to training or altered external conditions. Animals have been shown to have reduced breathing rates in response to better fitness levels. Since breathing rates were not conscious changes made by the animal, it is presumed that neural adaptations occur for the body to maintain a slower breathing rate.\n\nTranscranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is an important technique in modern cognitive neuropsychology that is used to investigate the perceptual and behavioral effects of temporary interference of neural processing. Studies have shown that when a subject’s visual cortex is disrupted by TMS, the subject views colorless flashes of light, or phosphenes. When a subjects’ vision was subjected to the constant stimulus of a single color, neural adaptations occurred that made the subjects used to the color. Once this adaptation had occurred, TMS was used to disrupt the subjects’ visual cortex again, and the flashes of light viewed by the subject were the same color as the constant stimulus before the disruption.\n\nNeural adaptation can occur for other than natural means. Antidepressant drugs, such as those that cause down regulation of β-adrenergic receptors, can cause rapid neural adaptations in the brain. By creating a quick adaptation in the regulation of these receptors, it is possible for drugs to reduce the effects of stress on those taking the medication.\n\nStudies in children with early childhood brain injuries have shown that neural adaptations slowly occur after the injury. Children with early injuries to the linguistics, spatial cognition and affective development areas of the brain showed deficits in those areas as compared to those without injury. Due to neural adaptations, however, by early school-age, considerable development to those areas was observed.\n\n"}
{"id": "2315033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315033", "title": "YaCy", "text": "YaCy\n\nYaCy (pronounced \"ya see\") is a free distributed search engine, built on principles of peer-to-peer (P2P) networks. Its core is a computer program written in Java distributed on several hundred computers, , so-called YaCy-peers. Each YaCy-peer independently crawls through the Internet, analyzes and indexes found web pages, and stores indexing results in a common database (so called index) which is shared with other YaCy-peers using principles of P2P networks. It is a free search engine that everyone can use to build a search portal for their intranet and to help search the public internet clearly.\n\nCompared to semi-distributed search engines, the YaCy-network has a decentralised architecture. All YaCy-peers are equal and no central server exists. It can be run either in a crawling mode or as a local proxy server, indexing web pages visited by the person running YaCy on his or her computer. (Several mechanisms are provided to protect the user's privacy). Access to the search functions is made by a locally running web server which provides a search box to enter search terms, and returns search results in a similar format to other popular search engines.\n\nYaCy was created in 2003 by Michael Christen.\n\nYaCy search engine is based on four elements:\n\n\nYaCy uses a combination of techniques for the networking, administration, and maintenance of indexing the search engine including blacklisting, moderation, and communication with the community. Here is how YaCy performs these operations:\n\nYaCy is available on Windows, Mac and Linux.\n\nThe Debian package can be installed from a repository available at the subdomain of the project's website. The package is not maintained in the official Debian package repository yet.\n\n\nYaCy at LinuxReviews\n"}
{"id": "2315038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315038", "title": "Great Jones Street", "text": "Great Jones Street\n\nGreat Jones Street is a street in New York City's NoHo district in Manhattan, essentially another name for 3rd Street between Broadway and the Bowery.\n\nThe street was named for Samuel Jones, a lawyer who became known as \"The Father of The New York Bar\" due to his work on revising New York State's statutes in 1789 along with Richard Varick, who had a street in SoHo named after him. Jones was a member of the New York State Assembly from 1796 to 1799, and he also served as the state's first Comptroller.\n\nJones deeded the site of the street to the city with the stipulation that any street that ran through the property had to be named for him. However, when the street was first created in 1789, the city already had a Jones Street in Greenwich Village, named for Dr. Gardner Jones, Samuel Jones's brother-in-law. The confusion between two streets with the same name was broken when Samuel Jones suggested that \"his\" street be called Great Jones Street. An alternative theory suggests that the street was called \"Great\" because it was the wider of the two Jones Streets.\n\n\n\n\n\nNotes\n\n"}
{"id": "2315046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315046", "title": "Linda Gottfredson", "text": "Linda Gottfredson\n\nLinda Susanne Gottfredson (née Howarth; born June 1947) is an American psychologist and writer. She is professor emeritus of educational psychology at the University of Delaware and co-director of the Delaware-Johns Hopkins Project for the Study of Intelligence and Society. Gottfredson's work has been influential in shaping U.S. public and private policies regarding affirmative action, hiring quotas, and \"race-norming\" on aptitude tests.\n\nShe is on the boards of the International Society for the Study of Individual Differences (ISSID), the International Society for Intelligence Research (ISIR), and the editorial boards of the scientific journals \"Intelligence\", \"Learning and Individual Differences\", and \"Society\".\n\nGottfredson has received research grants worth $267,000 from the Pioneer Fund, an organization which has been described as racist and white supremacist. The University of Delaware unsuccessfully sought to block Gottfredson from receiving Pioneer Fund grants before reaching a legal settlement with her in 1992.\n\nGottfredson was born in San Francisco on June 24, 1947. She is a third generation university faculty member. Her father, Jack A. Howarth (died 2006), was a faculty at U.C. Davis School of Veterinary Medicine, as was his father. Gottfredson initially majored in biology, but later transferred to psychology with her first husband, Gary Don Gottfredson. In 1969, she received a bachelor's degree in psychology from University of California, Berkeley. She worked in the Peace Corps in Malaysia. Gottfredson and her husband went to graduate school at Johns Hopkins University, where she received a Ph.D. in sociology in 1977.\n\nGottfredson took a position at Hopkins' Center for Social Organization of Schools and investigated issues of occupational segregation and typology based on skill sets and intellectual capacity. She married Robert A. Gordon, who worked in a related area at Hopkins, and they divorced by the mid-90s.\n\nIn 1985, Gottfredson participated in a conference called \"The g Factor in Employment Testing\". The papers presented were published in the December 1986 issue of the \"Journal of Vocational Behavior\", which she edited. In 1986, Gottfredson was appointed Associate Professor of Educational Studies at the University of Delaware, Newark.\n\nIn 1989, \"The Washington Post\" reported that one of Gottfredson's presentations was cited favorably by an article in the National Association for the Advancement of White People's magazine.\n\nThat year, she presented a series of papers on general intelligence factor and employment, including some criticizing the use of different curves for candidates of different races. Gottfredson has said:\n\nWe now have out there what I call the egalitarian fiction that all groups are equal in intelligence. We have social policy based on that fiction. For example, the 1991 Civil Rights Act codified \"Griggs vs. Duke Power\", which said that if you have disproportionate hiring by race, you are prima facie -- that's prima facie evidence of racial discrimination. ...Differences in intelligence have real world effects, whether we think they're there or not, whether we want to wish them away or not. And we don't do anybody any good, certainly not the low-IQ people, by denying that those problems exist.\n\nWhile an assistant professor of Educational Studies in the late 1980s, Gottfredson applied for and received three grants from the Pioneer Fund, which was created to advocate research into eugenics. She was promoted to full professor at the University of Delaware in 1990. That year, her fourth grant application to the Pioneer Fund was rejected by the board of the University, which said the funding would undermine their university's affirmative action. Gottfredson challenged the ruling with assistance from the Center for Individual Rights and the American Association of University Professors. In 1992, after two and a half years of debate and protest, the University administration reached a settlement that once again allowed Gottfredson and Jan Blits to continue receiving research funding from the Pioneer Fund. The arbitrator of the case held that the University's research committee had violated its own standards of review by looking at the content of Gottfredson's research and that Gottfredson had a right to academic freedom that public perceptions alone did not suffice to overcome.\n\nGottfredson has defended the Pioneer Fund's president J. Philippe Rushton and disparaged his critics. Gottfredson has been very critical of psychologist Robert Sternberg's work on the triarchic theory of intelligence, arguing that Sternberg has not demonstrated a distinction between practical intelligence and the analytical intelligence measured by IQ tests.\n\nAccording to the Southern Poverty Law Center, \"Gottfredson has worked tirelessly to oppose any and all efforts to reduce racial inequality in both in the workplace and in society as a whole.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2315049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315049", "title": "Badimo", "text": "Badimo\n\nBadimo (Tswana \"badimo\", literally \"ancestors\") is a name for the indigenous African Traditional Religion of Botswana. Although the CIA Factbook currently states that four percent of Botswanans are practitioners, in reality a great majority of Botswana follow at least some of the traditions deemed \"Badimo\" even if they are strong followers of another religion as well.\n\nThe term \"Badimo\", although usually translated as \"ancestors\" does not simply refer to people who are now dead, but rather to the \"living dead\". In the traditional African worldview, deceased ancestors continue to be present and are actively included in the daily life of individuals and tribes.\n\nBadimo originated from Batswapong ancestors and put in the hills of Tswapong. They are invisible and only heard by children and older people. They speak their own language and make violent wind sounds whenever they move. They aid people in health and can determine whether are not a person remains healthy or not with their presence. There were many cases of young boys were kidnapped and returned, knowing the full Badimo language. These children are chosen to deal with the Badimo when the join future delegations. There were traditional ceremonies and rituals held every year before the first rains to thank the ancestors for the good yields of the past year. During these rituals, Bajalwa (traditional beer) is brewed and a beast is killed, cooked, and taken to the hills where the Badimo are hidden. The delegation would leave this food and come back later to discuss with the Badimo and collect the utensils. The delegation would tell the Badimo what the community felt about their lives. If the Badimo were satisfied, they would tell the delegation what their expectations were for the community. \nThe Badimo also serve the purpose of notifying the next of kin about a death or if someone is dying.\n\nBadimo, among other traditional religions, is mixed in with the most dominant religion in Botswana, Christianity. Only a small percentage of Botswanans practices pure Christianity. Majority of Botswanans practice a form of Christianity that is influenced and mixes with traditional religious customs. It makes the religion equal to be a social and cultural aspect of their society.\nWith past population estimates made in 2014, there are approximately 2.2 million people in Botswana. Of that, there is estimated 63 percent identifying as Christian, 27 percent as \"God\", 8 percent as no religion, and 2 percent as the traditional indigenous Badimo. The majority having a dual religious practice, Christianity and traditional religious worship. While the Botswanan people met missionaries with open arms and were convinced to join this new religion at the time in a welcoming and comforting way it did not stop them from creating their own version of the new religion. For them, as a society, their religion was not only a way of life but a reflection of who they are as a people. To drop the traditional practices would mean they would give up their identity. Since they were on good terms with the new religion, it allowed them to integrate their social identity and customs to not only customize the religion but make it their own.\n\nIn most traditional religions and even modern religions, health, and faith are complementary. This religious identity allows for a reduction in risk of HIV as well as calling for a need for further research in the field. Those who follow a religion are encouraging to practice premarital abstinence and marital fidelity as a way of HIV and AIDS prevention. There is a mentality, behind the larger groups of believers, following such safe practices that there is a societal decrease of the spread of sexually transmitted diseases. Botswana midwives practice a traditional form of delivering babies. They continuously use traditional herbs and rely heavily on worship. Religious practitioners and church healers also have the status to diagnose misfortune and physical ailments. Regardless of traditional or modern belief, citizens, including traditional midwives, doctors, and healers, all use modern medicine and technology if illnesses or other health issues seem too complicated to handle. “Traditional religious specialists may bring rain, diagnose misfortunes, or strengthen households against evil influences and witchcraft, using herbs, roots, and special medicines” Dingaka is a traditional doctor that have extensive knowledge of medicinal herbs and plants. No modern medicines can match the medicinal herbs used by Dingakas for centuries to heal and cure diseases. Dingakas also claim to have powers, such as: ordering lightning to strike people and fixing unsteady marriages. Those who wish to practice must register with the Botswana Dingaka Association.\n\nChiefs in the pre-colonial time willingly passed along their powers. This created a societal effect in terms of structure and culture. Following this was the Botswanan mentality of accepting help and finding resources beyond their traditional parameters. It explains why in health and religion why the people in Botswana are mostly open and receptive to outside help, which was not the case for many other societies at the time.\n\nBefore colonial missionaries, Botswanans worshipped Modimo, a Supreme Being. The believed that a being was responsible for creating humankind, animals, and nature. Their cosmology reflected a strong connection between people and the natural environment. One of the most important values held by Botswanans is Botho. Botho means highest respect, honor, and esteem that one holds for another human life. Members of the society are required to practice Botho. Other values in Botswanan society include democracy, development, self-reliance, and unity. There is also a strong value in Morero (consultations), to ensure peace in society. This process is at inter-personal, family, and community levels, where communities and government consult at the Kgotla.\n\nMost Botswanans believe in a heaven, hell, and resurrection in a Christian context. People expect the dead to keep interest in their descendants, as ancestral spirits. People prefer to be buried in their home villages, even if they have not lived there for a long time. Funerals are very important and expensive events.\n\n"}
{"id": "2315053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315053", "title": "Utaybah bin Abu Lahab", "text": "Utaybah bin Abu Lahab\n\nUtaybah bin Abu Lahab was the son of Abū Lahab, he married Muhammad's third daughter Umm Kulthum, but divorced her before the marriage was consummated on his father's request. He was Muhammad's cousin.\n\nUtaybah was one of three sons of Abu Lahab, a staunch opponent of the prophet Muhammad. He was the only son of Abu Lahab who did not embrace Islam. He was married to Umm Kulthum bint Muhammad, the daughter of the prophet Muhammad, in 610 before the advent of his prophethood.\n\nAfter the advent of prophethood of the prophet Muhammad, his initial preaching was kept secret among his closest friends. Later on, he went up to Mount Saffa and called the people of Mecca. He asked them if they would believe him if raiders were behind the mountain approaching the city, and they affirmed his honesty throughout his 40 prior years of life in Mecca. He then warned his people of imminent punishment from God. This was the first public preaching of the prophet Muhammad. Abu Lahab then replied, \"may you be destroyed today, did you gather us here for this?\" And he opposed him, following him around Mecca, throwing stones at him until his legs bled, and calling him a liar while warning people not to accept Islam. Abu Lahab then told his sons to divorce the two daughters of the prophet Muhammad or he will never speak to them again.\n\n'Utaybah bin Abi Lahab then approached the Prophet Muhammad and shouted at him, saying he disbelieves in the Qur'an and in his prophethood, citing chapter 53: \"I disbelieve in: 'By the star when it goes down.' [Qur'an 53:1] and in 'Then he (Gabriel) approached and came closer.' [Qur'an 53:8] He then spat in front of the prophet and declared his divorce of the prophet Muhammad's daughter, Umm Kulthum. Thereupon, the Prophet invoked Allâh against 'Utaybah and supplicated: \"O Allâh! Set one of Your dogs on him.\" Later, 'Utaybah set out for Syria with some of his compatriots from Quraysh and took accommodation in Az-Zarqa'. A lion approached the group and devoured Utaybah bin Abi Lahab.\n\nIn August 2011, researchers from the Hashemite University of the Queen Rania Institute for Tourism and Heritage were able to discover the historical site where the death occurred in the valley of Zarqa in Jordan, now known as the \"Jannaa'ah\" area adjacent to the stream of Zarqa.\n"}
{"id": "2315069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315069", "title": "Herbert M. Shelton", "text": "Herbert M. Shelton\n\nHerbert McGolfin Shelton (October 6, 1895 – January 1, 1985) was an American naturopath, alternative medicine advocate, author, pacifist, vegetarian, and a supporter of rawism and fasting. Shelton was nominated by the American Vegetarian Party to run as its candidate for President of the United States in 1956. He saw himself as the champion of original natural hygiene ideas from the 1830s. His ideas have been described as quackery by critics.\n\nShelton was born on October 6, 1895 in Wylie, Texas to Thomas Mitchell Shelton and Mary Frances Gutherie Shelton, who were devoted Christians. As a child, Shelton took an interest in animals, especially their habits when sick as compared to when well. He was especially intrigued by their fasting when the farm animals became sick.\n\nShelton attended Bernarr Macfadden's College of Physcultopathy in Chicago and interned at Crane's Sanatorium in Elmhurst, Illinois. He also attended Lindlahr College of Natural Therapeutics for post-graduate work and served at Lindlahr's and Sahler's Sanatoriums. Shelton later continued post-graduate work at Peerless College of Chiropractic in Illinois and served an internship at Crandall Health School in Pennsylvania.\n\nIn 1921, he married Ida Pape, studied at the American School of Chiropractic, and graduated from the American School of Naturopathy with a Doctor of Naturopathic Medicine. Shelton claimed that cooking food denatures it, and that a healthy body has the ability to restore itself from illness without medical intervention. Although heavily criticized by his contemporaries for advocating fasting over medical treatment, Shelton's work served as an early influence for the raw food movement.\n\nIn 1922, Shelton self-published his first book, \"Fundamentals of Nature Cure.\" Seeing importance in the Hygienic Movement (created in 1832 by Dr. Isaac Jennings and Sylvester Graham), he changed the title of this first book to \"An Introduction to Natural Hygiene.\"\n\nA pacifist, Shelton was jailed in 1917 for making an anti-draft statement in public during the height of World War I.\n\nIn 1927, Shelton was arrested, jailed, and fined three times for practicing medicine without a license. These arrests continued periodically through the next three decades. Shelton was jailed repeatedly for practicing medicine without a license. He was found guilty of violating the Medical Practice Act in 1932, and served 30 days on Rikers Island.\n\nIn 1942, Shelton was charged with negligent homicide and \"treating and offering to treat a human being without a state medical license\" for starving a patient to death. The case was never tried and the charges were later dropped.\n\nIn 1978, another patient died at one of his schools, this time of an apparent heart attack. After a two-year-long court battle, Shelton lost the lawsuit for negligence and was bankrupted by the judgment. His school was forced to close as a result.\n\nBy 1972, at the age of 77, Shelton became bedridden from a degenerative neuro-muscular disease believed to be Parkinson's disease. He died thirteen years later, unable to improve his own health despite many attempts. His peers were shocked to see him unable to walk, speak normally, or write.\n\nTowards the end of his life, Shelton continued his involvement in Dr. Shelton's Health School. In the time that the school was in operation, over 40,000 people were treated for various ailments, with most recovering with the help of water fasting. The school operated for 53 years, closing in 1981.\n\nIn 1989, four years after his death, a biography of Shelton called \"Yours for Health: The Life and Times of Herbert M. Shelton,\" was published by Jean A. Oswald.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2315078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315078", "title": "Phillip Hamilton", "text": "Phillip Hamilton\n\nPhillip Hamilton (born February 14, 1961) is an American author and professor of history. He is the author of two books, \"The Making and Unmaking of a Revolutionary Family: The Tuckers of Virginia, 1752–1830\" and \"Serving the Old Dominion\", a history of Christopher Newport University, a state university in Virginia.\n\nHamilton graduated from Gettysburg College, then attended graduate school in history at Washington University in St. Louis, where he earned a Ph.D. degree. He and his wife, Christina, then moved to St. Peters, Missouri, where he got a job at Lindenwood University They had two children, Thomas, born in 1993 and Jacob, born in 1997. They then moved to Newport News, Virginia, where Hamilton was hired as an associate professor of history at Christopher Newport University.\n\nAfter seven years of writing, editing, and submitting, his first book, \"The Making and Unmaking of a Revolutionary Family: The Tuckers of Virginia, 1752–1830\" was published by University of Virginia Press in 2008. Afterwards, university president Paul S. Trible Jr. asked Hamilton to begin writing \"Serving the Old Dominion: A History of Christopher Newport University, 1958–2011\", which was published in 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "2315080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315080", "title": "Closing Bell", "text": "Closing Bell\n\nClosing Bell can refer to two CNBC programs: the original \"Closing Bell\" on CNBC (which debuted on February 4, 2002) and \"European Closing Bell\" on CNBC Europe (which was cancelled on December 18, 2015).\n\nThe show is named after the bell that is rung to signify the end of a trading session on the New York Stock Exchange which occurs at 4:00 pm EST. Many exchanges used to signify end of trading with a gong or bell when they were operated on an open outcry basis. The New York Stock Exchange still uses this system and often invites special guests to ring the bell.\n\nThe CNBC shows use this name as they cover the period up to the end of trading and review the trading of the day after the market has closed.\n\nThe CNBC US program \"Closing Bell\" airs on CNBC between 3pm and 5pm, Eastern Time. The program is dual-anchored by Wilfred Frost and Sara Eisen at the NYSE. Maria Bartiromo was the original anchor of the show ran from 3-5pm ET until she departed from the network on November 22, 2013 to join the Fox Business Network. During the 4-5pm block, Maria said with the phrase, \"it is 4 O'Clock on Wall Street - do you know where your money is?\". Bartiromo's role was replaced with Kelly Evans following the former's aforementioned departure. Like her predecessor, Evans anchored the 4-5pm ET block. Tyler Mathisen was the former co-anchor from 3-4pm ET (originally from 4-5pm ET), until he was promoted in 2005. That same year, Dylan Ratigan took over the 3-4pm ET co-anchoring duties until his departure from the network in March 2009. Starting January 2011, Bill Griffeth became co-anchor after co-anchoring \"Power Lunch\" since 1996-2009 and taking a 1-year leave of absence. On March 12, 2018, Griffeth moved to PBS' \"Nightly Business Report\" to reunite with his former \"Power Lunch\" co-anchor, Sue Herera, while Frost (formerly co-anchor of \"Worldwide Exchange\") replaced Griffeth as Kelly Evans' co-anchor of \"Closing Bell\". On November 30, 2018, Sara Eisen (also co-anchor of \"Squawk on the Street\"), who filled in for Kelly Evans while the latter was on away maternity leave, took over Evans' role permanently, with Wilfred Frost now also co-anchoring both hours of the show with Eisen. By coincidence, both Frost and Eisen had previously co-anchored \"Worldwide Exchange\" for 2 years.\n\nIn 2012, \"Closing Bell\" moved to a new trading-floor studio set inside Post 9 at the NYSE, which is shared with two other CNBC US shows, \"Squawk on the Street\" and \"Squawk Alley\".\n\nThe program covers the last hour of trading in the US stock markets, covering the closing bells of the NYSE and NASDAQ Stock Market at 4pm ET. Bob Pisani provides live reports from the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. Scott Wapner provided live reports from the NASDAQ until becoming the host of CNBC Halftime Report (his role has since been filled by Bertha Coombs). Like the \"Opening Bell Countdown\" segment on \"Squawk on the Street\" (which takes viewers to the opening bell), the \"Closing Countdown\" segment on this program (which takes viewers to the closing bell) also uses a countdown clock on the lower right of the screen (where the network bug usually appears).\n\nAfter 4pm ET, there is analysis of the day's winners and losers, company results that are issued after the close of trade, and other business news.\n\nOn October 13, 2014, \"Closing Bell\", along with CNBC's other trading-day programs, were launched in full 1080i high-definition as part of a network-wide switch to a full 16:9 letterbox presentation.\n\n\n\nAround CNBC's global branches, there are many counterparts of \"Closing Bell\" in the world:\nAs the major Asian markets all close at different times, there is no \"Asian Closing Bell\". The equivalent programme is \"Worldwide Exchange\", which replaced \"Asia Market Wrap\" on 2005-12-19.\n\nThe previous \"Closing Bell\" logo had a similar resemblance to the \"Morning Call\" logo (used from 2005-12-19 to 2007-08-07), as both of those respective programs used identical opening titles. The aforementioned \"Morning Call\" logo was dropped entirely on 2007-08-08 as that program was renamed, \"The Call\".\n\nStarted from January 14, 2014, the logo changed. It changed again on October 13, 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2315082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315082", "title": "Georges Antoine Chabot", "text": "Georges Antoine Chabot\n\nGeorges Antoine Chabot (13 April 1758 – 18 April 1819), known as \"Chabot de Lallier\", was a French jurist and statesman.\n\nChabot was president of the tribunal in Montluçon, he was elected as a deputy supplant to the National Convention during the French Revolution.\n\nA member of the French Directory's Council of the Ancients, then of the Consulate's Tribunate, he was president of the latter when the Treaty of Amiens recognizing the French Republic was signed. He had a resolution adopted which tended to give Napoleon Bonaparte the consulship for life, and in 1804 supported the proposal to establish a hereditary monarchy (the First French Empire).\n\nNapoleon named him inspector-general of the law schools, then judge of the court of cassation.\n\nHe published various legal works, e.g. \"Tableau de la législation ancienne sur les successions et de la législation nouvelle établie par le code civil\" (Paris, 1804), and \"Questions transitoires sur le Code Napoléon\" (Paris, 1809).\n\n"}
{"id": "2315093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315093", "title": "Tungiasis", "text": "Tungiasis\n\nTungiasis is an inflammatory skin disease caused by infection with the female ectoparasitic \"Tunga penetrans\" (also known as chigoe flea, jigger, nigua or sand flea), found in the tropical parts of Africa, the Caribbean, Central and South America, and India. \"Tunga penetrans\" is the smallest known flea, measuring 1 mm across. It is also known in Latin America as the \"nigua\" and \"bicho de pie\" (Spanish) or \"bicho de pé\" (Portuguese), literally \"\"foot bug\"\". \"Tunga penetrans\" is a member of the genus \"Tunga\", which comprises 13 species.\n\nTungiasis causes skin inflammation, severe pain, itching, and a lesion at the site of infection that is characterized by a black dot at the center of a swollen red lesion, surrounded by what looks like a white halo. Desquamation of the skin is always seen, especially after the flea expands during hypertrophy.\n\nAs of 2009, tungiasis is present worldwide in 88 countries with varying degrees of incidence. This disease is of special public health concern in highly endemic areas such as Nigeria, Trinidad and Tobago, and Brazil, where its prevalence, especially in poor communities, has been known to approach 50%.\n\nThe chigoe flea is properly classified as a member of the order Siphonaptera as it is a flea. Although commonly referred to as chiggers, true chiggers are mites, which are minute arachnids. Mites penetrate the skin and feed on skin cells that are broken down by an enzyme they secrete from their mouthparts, but they do not lay eggs in the host as \"T. penetrans\" does. Moreover, in mites, the adult and the larval forms both feed on other animals. This is not the case with \"T. penetrans\", as only the adults feed on mammals and it is only the female that stays attached to the host.\n\n\"Tunga penetrans\" is also known by the following names: chigoe flea, sand flea, nigua, chigger flea, jigger flea, bicho de pé, pico, sikka, kuti, and piqui, among many others.\n\nThe symptoms of this disease include:\n\n\nLeft untreated, secondary infections, such as bacteremia, tetanus, necrosis and gangrene, can occur.\n\nIn all cases, tungiasis by itself only caused morbidity, though secondary infection may lead to mortality. The life cycle section presents the Fortaleza stages from the flea's developmental perspective. The discussion is specific to symptoms of human infection. The clinical presentation in humans follows the Fortaleza Classification as the stage of infection will determine the symptoms present. The following discussion will give an overview of the symptoms beginning in stage 2 because patients are not likely to present themselves at the early stages of infection, mostly because the flea's burrowing is usually not felt. This may be due to a keratolytic enzyme secreted during stage 1.\n\nThe patient with a single flea may present as early as stage 2 when, though the erythema is barely perceptible, a boring pain and the curious sensation of pleasant itching occur. This inflammatory reaction is the initial immunological response to the infestation. Heavily infested patients may not notice a stage 2 infection due to the other fleas’ causing irritation as well. Feces may be seen, but this is more common in the 3rd stage.\nAround the third day after penetration, erythema and skin tenderness are felt, accompanied by pruritus (severe itching) and a black furuncular nodule surrounded by a white halo of stretched skin caused by the expansion of the flea. Fecal coils may protrude from the center of the nodule where the flea's anus is facing upward. They should be washed off quickly as the feces may remain in the skin unless removed. During this 3a substage, pain can be severe, especially at night or, if the nodule is on the foot, while walking. Eggs will also begin to be released and a watery secretion can be observed. The radical metamorphosis during the 3rd to 6th day after penetration, or neosomy, precedes the formation of a small caldera-like rim rampart as a result of the increased thickness of the flea's chitin exoskeleton. During the caldera formation, the nodule shrinks a bit and it looks as if it is beginning to dry out; this takes 2 weeks and comprises substage 3b.\n\nAt the third week after penetration and substage 4a, the eggs’ release will have stopped and the lesion will become smaller and more wrinkled. As the flea is near death, fecal and water secretion will stop altogether. Pain, tenderness, and skin inflammation will still be present. Around the 25th day after penetration, the lesion looks like a black crust and the flea's carcass is removed by host repair mechanisms and the skin begins to heal. With the flea gone, inflammation may still persist for a while.\n\nAlthough patients would not present within the 5th stage of tungiasis as the flea would be dead and no longer in the body, this stage is characterized by the reorganization of the skin (1–4 weeks) and a circular residue of 5–10 mm in diameter around the site in penetration. An intraepithelial abscess, which developed due to the presence of the flea, will drain and later heal. Although these disease residues would persist for a few months, tungiasis is no longer present.\n\nIn severe cases, ulcers are common, as well as complete tissue and nail deformation. A patient may be unable to walk due to severe pain if too many of the lesions are present in the feet. Suppuration (pus formation), tissue death, auto-amputation of digits (via ainhum), and chronic lymphedema may also be seen.\n\nIf the patient is not vaccinated, tetanus is often a complication due to secondary infection. Necrosis and gangrene are other common complications of severe infestation and superinfection. Staphylococcus aureus and Wolbachia endobacteria can be transmitted by the chigoe flea, as well as nearly 150 other different pathogens. For these reasons, the chigoe flea should be removed as soon as possible.\n\nBecause of the relatively rapid onset of tungiasis, the incubation period tends to be short. Although some reddening around the site of penetration occurs, the first symptoms are perceived in stage 2 as itching and severe pain, usually a day after penetration.\n\nTungiasis is strictly caused by chigoe fleas (the term transmission does not apply because \"Tunga penetrans\" is itself responsible for the disease.) The preponderance of tungiasis lesions on the toes may be because chigoe flea is a poor jumper, attaining only a high of 20 cm. But the reality is more complex; for example, the jumping ability cannot explain why hands are the second-most affected body part. Lesions on the hands are better explained by playing in the sand and noting that hands are often used to remove sand from other parts of the body. The occurrence of tungiasis lesions on the toes, between them, and on the soles can be easily explained because most of the victims are poor, walk barefoot, and live in places where the sand (home to chigoe fleas) constitutes the floor. Rate of incidence therefore is greatly increased in poor communities and populations because of the lack of adequate housing. This occurs in significantly higher proportions during the peak of the dry season in local communities.\n\n\"T. penetrans\" has been documented to use various warm-blooded animals as reservoir hosts, including humans, pigs, dogs, cats, rats, sheep, cattle, donkeys, monkeys, birds, and elephants. These hosts directly propagate the disease by being the origin of the next generation of fleas. Once the female flea expels 100–200 eggs, the cycle of transmission begins again.\n\n\"T. penetrans\" eggs, on average, are 604 μm long, The larva will hatch from the egg within one to six days, assuming the environmental conditions (e.g., moisture, humidity, etc.) are favorable. After hatching, the flea will progress through two instar phases. This is unique in that most fleas go through three, instead. Over the course of that development, the flea will first decrease in size from its just-hatched size of 1,500 μm to 1,150 μm (first instar) before growing to 2,900 μm (second instar).\n\nAbout 6 to 8 days after hatching, the larva pupates and builds a cocoon around itself. Because it lives mostly on and below the surface of the sand, sand is used to stabilize the cocoon and help to promote its development. An environmental disturbance such as rain or a lack of sand have been shown to decrease incidence, most likely due to decreasing the environmental factors (i.e., sand) on which the flea depends for overall growth. Barring any disturbances to the cocoon, an adult flea will emerge from the puparium after 9–15 days.\n\nIn the adult phase, the flea will occasionally feed on unsuspecting animals. Only once the female burrows into the skin can reproduction occur, as the male and female show no interest in each other in the wild. The male flea dies after copulation. The female flea continues \"in vivo\" ectodevelopment, described in stages by the Fortaleza classification of tungiasis.\n\nIn a seminal paper on the biology and pathology of \"Tunga penetrans\", Eisele \"et al.\" (2003) provided and detailed the five stages of tungiasis, thereby detailing the \"in vivo\" development of the female chigoe flea for the first time. In dividing the natural history of the disease, the Fortaleza Classification formally describes the last part of the female flea's life cycle where it burrows into its host's skin, expels eggs, and dies. Due to the nature of the discussion, overlap with other sections, particularly the one on symptoms, is unavoidable.\n\nStage 1 is characterized by the penetration of the skin by the female chigoe flea. Running along the body, the female uses its posterior legs to push its body upward by an angle of 45–90 degrees. Penetration then starts, beginning with the proboscis going through the epidermis.\n\nBy stage 2 (day 1–2), penetration is complete and the flea has burrowed most of its body into the skin. Only the anus, the copulatory organs, and four rear air holes in fleas called stigmata remain on the outside of the epidermis. The anus will excrete feces that is thought to attract male fleas for mating, described in a later section. The hypertrophic zone between tergites 2 and 3 in the abdominal region begins to expand a day or two after penetration and takes the appearance of a life belt. During this time, the flea begins to feed on the host's blood.\n\nStage 3 is divided into two substages, the first of which being 2–3 days after penetration is complete. In 3a, maximum hypertrophy is achieved and the flea's midsection swells to the size of a pea. Due to the expanding flea, the outer layer of the skin is stretched thin, resulting in the appearance of a white halo around the black dot (rear end of the flea) at the center of the lesion. In 3b, the chitin exoskeleton of tergites 2 and 3 increase in thickness and gives the structure the look of a mini caldera. Egg release is common in substage 3b, as are fecal coils. The eggs tend to stick to the skin.\n\nAt about the 3rd week after penetration, stage 4 begins, which is also divided into two substages. In 4a, the flea loses its signs of vitality and appears near death. As a result, the lesion shrinks in size, turns brown, and appears wrinkled. The death of the flea marks the beginning of substage 4b (around day 25 post-penetration) as the body begins to eliminate the parasite through skin repair mechanisms (e.g. shedding and subsequent skin repair). At this phase, the lesion is seen as brown or black.\n\nBy the 5th stage of tungiasis, the carcass of the \"T. penetrans\" flea has been expelled and there are circular skin residues of the infection that remain. There are only lingering symptoms at this time, described in the next section.\n\nIn a study of 1000 freshly ejected \"T. penetrans\" eggs, it was found that females are generally smaller than males for all criteria. In some cases, though, females had a bigger epipharynx and maxillar palpus. Due to its burrowing activity, the chigoe flea has developed a well-developed lacinia and epipharynx that is used to penetrate the skin. Overall, the fleas’ head is relatively flattened, which again aids in burrowing through the epidermal and dermal layers.\n\nInvestigators have also found that adult \"T. penetrans\" have different morphologies with respect to the shape of their head. Some have a rounded head, others have head shapes that resemble ski ramps more than anything else; still, others demonstrate head shapes that are very linear with a slight bulge at the nose. These morphologies were seen to be host-specific, as only fleas of some head-types were found in specific hosts. This, along with genetic differences among the \"T. penetrans\" fleas that infect different host animals, may suggest that there are several species of closely related species have been grouped taxonomically under one binomial nomenclature.\n\nThough the chigoe flea resembles most others in morphology, the flea has a hypertrophic region between tergites 2 and 3. As stated in Eisele et al. (2003), tergites 2 and 3, as well as the abdominal sternites, stretch considerably and are bent apart. Chitinous clasps that are built for the abdominal enlargement surround these regions and hold onto the hypertrophic zone, giving them the appearance of a three-leafed clover. (See image 7 of the life cycle diagram.) Surprisingly, the rest of the flea, including the head and the thorax, do not change in shape.,\n\nWith the rapid expansion of the flea, the morphology of the flea is now vastly different. It has gone from the smallest flea in the world to a bulging mass that measures 5–10mm in diameter. This results in a volume that is 2000 to 3000 times what it used to be.\n\nFemales have a depression or groove at their abdominal end whereas the males have their protrusive copulatory organs in that same region. These morphological differences reflect the way the male and female copulate. In the first step toward copulation, the female penetrates an organism in an ungravid state. It is only there that the male will find her and copulate. Copulation of adults has not been observed in the wild. With the female reproductive organs pointing outward, the male will place his reproductive organs \"in direction to the upright abdominal end of the female\" to copulate. Having copulated for only a few seconds to 2 minutes, the male will then begin to search for another female. After copulation is complete, the male will die, although sometimes he will take a blood meal before doing so. Eggs will be expelled whether or not they have been fertilized.\n\nThe chigoe flea eggs’ average length is 604 μm and the just hatched larvae, in their first instar, have an average length of 1,500 μm. At the second and last instar (\"T. penetrans\" is unique among the fleas in that it only has two, instead of three, instars.) the larvae decrease in size to 1,150 μm after growing to at least 2,900 μm. The development from instar 1 to instar 2 lasts less than one day.\n\nOn the whole, \"Tunga penetrans\" does not do very well in terms of its Darwinian fitness. In a laboratory setting in which different mediums were provided for larval growth, the rate of survival from egg to adult in the best medium was 1.05%. Only 15% of the eggs were found to develop into larvae, and of those, only 14% formed a cocoon. Moreover, only half of the pupae reached the adult phase, resulting in gender disequilibrium. Although these results reflect a laboratory setting, the general lack of success for \"T. penetrans\"’s reproductive (opportunistic) R-strategy is surprising given the number of fleas that a single person can attract. The low survival rate suggests that a concentrated public health effort directed \"at any point\" in the flea’s life cycle is likely to deal a crippling blow to the overall population of the flea in the area.\n\nThere are no diagnostic tests for tungiasis. This is most likely because the parasite is ectoparasitic with visible symptoms. Identification of the parasite through removal, and a patient’s traveling history, should suffice for diagnosis, though the latter is clearly more useful than the former. Localization of the lesion may be a useful diagnostic method for the clinician. A biopsy may be done, though again, it is not required for diagnosis.\n\nDue to the high number of hosts, eradication of tungiasis is not feasible, at least not easily so. Public health and prevention strategies should then be done with elimination as the target. Better household hygiene, including having a cemented rather than a sand floor, and washing it often, would lower the rates of tungiasis significantly.\n\nThough vaccines would be useful, due to the ectoparasitic nature of chigoe flea, they are neither a feasible nor an effective tool against tungiasis. Nevertheless, due to the high incidence of secondary infection, those at risk of tungiasis should get vaccinated against tetanus. A better approach is to use repellents that specifically target the chigoe flea. One very successful repellent is called Zanzarin, a derivative of coconut oil, jojoba oil, and aloe vera. In a recent study involving two cohorts, the infestation rates dropped 92% on average for the first one and 90% for the other. Likewise, the intensity of the cohorts dropped by 86% and 87% respectively. The non-toxic nature of Zanzarin, combined with its \"remarkable regression of the clinical pathology\" make this a tenable public health tool against tungiasis.\n\nThe use of pesticide, like DDT, has also led to elimination of the \"Tunga penetrans\", but this control/prevention strategy should be utilized very carefully, if at all, because of the possible side effects such pesticides can have on the greater biosphere. In the 1950s, there was a worldwide effort to eradicate malaria. As part of that effort, Mexico launched the Campaña Nacional para la Erradicación de Paludismo, or the National Campaign for the Eradication of Malaria. By spraying DDT in homes, the Anopheles a genus of mosquitoes known to carry the deadly Plasmodium falciparum was mostly eliminated. As a consequence of this national campaign, other arthropods were either eliminated or significantly reduced in number, including the reduviid bug responsible for Chagas disease (American Trypanosomiasis) and \"T. penetrans\". Controlled, in-home spraying of DDT is effective as it gives the home immunity against arthropods while not contaminating the local water supplies and doing as much ecological damage as was once the case when DDT was first introduced.\n\nWhile other species gradually gained resistance to DDT and other insecticides that were used, \"T. penetrans\" did not; as a result, the incidence of tungiasis in Mexico is very low when compared to the rest of Latin America, especially Brazil, where rates in poor areas have been known to be as high or higher than 50%. There was a 40-year period with no tungiasis cases in Mexico. It was not until August 1989 that three Mexican patients presented with the disease. Though there were other cases of tungiasis reported thereafter, all were acquired in Africa.\n\nAs the disease is self-limiting, at least when exposure to the parasite is limited, management is mostly confined to treatment. Due to the secondary infection that can cause serious medical issues, the recommended course of action upon diagnosis is a surgical extraction of the fleas followed by the application of a topical antibiotic. Care should be taken to avoid tearing the flea during the extraction procedures as severe inflammation will result. The same will occur if part of the flea is left behind. Sterile equipment should always be used, as contaminated instruments could act as mechanical vectors for pathogens to enter the body.\n\nThere is no drug that has proven to be effective against embedded fleas. Oral niridazole was once considered a therapeutic drug, but well-designed studies are lacking and, given the severe adverse effects, this is one drug that is likely to cause more harm than good. However, it has some anecdotal evidence of lysing the fleas altogether. Oral ivermectin is considered by some in endemic areas to be a panacea against the fleas but studies using high doses have failed to validate this hypothesis. Other drugs such as topical ivermectin and metrifonate have been somewhat successful, but not enough to be significant. [2,5] For superinfections, trimethoprim, sulfamethoxazole, metronidazole, amoxicillin, (with/without clavulanate) have been used successfully, though these treat only secondary infections.\n\nSuccessful topical treatments also include cryotherapy and electrodesiccation of the lesion. If formaldehyde, chloroform, or DDT are used topically, care should be taken when dealing with the resulting morbidity. The \"T. penetrans\" flea can also be suffocated using occlusive petrolatum, while Vaseline will kill the organism as well, most likely due to suffocation as the stigmata would be covered. The gum of the mammee apple (\"Mammea americana\"), a fruit that also goes by the name Saint Domingo apricot, has also been used to kill the chigoe flea, though this has not been reported in the main \"T. penetrans\" literature.\n\nEven without treatment, the burrowed fleas will die within five weeks and are naturally sloughed off as the skin sheds.\n\nFor the most part, the chigoe flea lives 2–5 cm below the sand, an observation which helps explains its overall distribution. The temperature is generally too hot for the larvae to develop on the surface of the sand and the deeper sand does not have enough oxygen. This preferred ecological niche offers a way to decrease transmission among humans by investing in concrete grounds as opposed to the sand that is usually used in shacks and some favelas. Indeed, Nany et al. (2007) report that \"In shacks with concreted ground being cleaned every day with water, Tunga [penetrans] larvae were hardly found.\"\n\nIn a longitudinal study conducted from March 2001 to January 2002, incidence of tungiasis was found to vary significantly with the local seasons of an endemic community in Brazil. In particular, the study found that \"occurrence of tungiasis varies throughout the year and seems to follow local precipitation patterns. Maximum and minimum prevalence rates differed by more than a factor of three.\" The authors suggest that the correlation is due to the high humidity in the soil impairing larval development during the rainy season, as well as the more obvious reason that rain may simply wash away all stages of \"T. penetrans\" due its small size of 1mm.\n\nActing as both biological vectors and definitive hosts, humans have spread \"Tunga penetrans\" from its isolated existence in the West Indies to all of Latin America and most of Africa via sea travel. Since the chigoe flea technically has no reservoir species and the female will cause tungiasis to any mammalian organism it can penetrate, this means the flea will have a relatively large number of hosts and victims. Epidemiologically, this is important as tungiasis often causes secondary infections.\n\nTungiasis had been endemic in pre-Columbian Andean society for centuries before discovery of \"T. penetrans\" as native to the West Indies. The first case of tungiasis was described in 1526 by Gonzalo Fernández de Oviedo y Valdés, where he discussed the skin infection and its symptoms on crew members from Columbus's \"Santa Maria\" after they were shipwrecked on Haiti. Through ship routes and further expeditions, the chigoe flea was spread to the rest of the world, particularly to the rest of Latin America and Africa. The spread to greater Africa occurred throughout the 17th and 19th centuries, specifically in 1872 when the infected crewmen of the ship \"Thomas Mitchell\" introduced it into Angola by illegal dumping of sand ballast, having sailed from Brazil.\n\n"}
{"id": "2315094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315094", "title": "Charmbracelet World Tour", "text": "Charmbracelet World Tour\n\nThe Charmbracelet World Tour was a worldwide concert tour in 2003–2004 by American singer-songwriter Mariah Carey in support of her album \"Charmbracelet\" (2002). The tour started on June 20, 2003 in Seoul, Korea visiting several countries in Asia, Europe, and North America before ending on February 26, 2004 in Dubai.\n\nIn April 2003, Carey announced a world tour in support of her recent studio album \"Charmbracelet\". The tour followed her Rainbow World Tour in 2000 and was her most extensive lasting for sixty-nine shows over eight months. The tour reached many places in East Asia, Southeast Asia, and the Middle East.\n\nSince her debut on the music scene in 1990, Carey has toured very infrequently compared to many other established acts. As such, the length of this tour had actually been extended due to Carey attempting to promote the \"Charmbracelet\" album which was underperforming. After the initial stretch of the tour, Carey decided to add additional dates. For the new dates, she performed a more condensed show, removing several songs from the set list and performing a few new songs in their place with Christmas elements during the seasonal period.\n\nBefore tickets went on sale in the US, venues were switched from large arenas to smaller, more intimate theatre shows due to slow sales in some cities. According to Carey, however, the change was made in order to give fans a more intimate show. She said, \"It's much more intimate so you'll feel like you had an experience. You experience a night with me.\" However, while smaller venues were booked for the US leg of the tour, Carey performed at some arenas in Asia and Europe. In the UK, it was Carey's first tour to feature shows outside London; she performed in Glasgow, Birmingham and Manchester.\n\nThe tour garnered praise from music critics and audiences, many of whom complimented the quality of Carey's live vocals and the production of the shows. Fans were given the opportunity to request songs from Carey's catalog, which added to its positive reception. At her concert in Manila, Rito P. Asilo from \"Philippine Daily Inquirer\" wrote, \"I didn't expect her voice to be that crystal clear!\" He added, \"After 15 songs, we couldn't seem to get enough of Mariahand we became a believer!\".\n\nCarey's sexual image also generated some controversy during the tour. In various countries, she was often criticized for her choice of dress, and a Pan-Islamic youth leader attempted to have her banned from performing in Malaysia. She was eventually allowed to perform under the condition that she wore less revealing clothing while on stage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2315112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315112", "title": "Tom Boerwinkle", "text": "Tom Boerwinkle\n\nThomas F. Boerwinkle (August 23, 1945 – March 26, 2013) was an American National Basketball Association center who spent his entire career with the Chicago Bulls.\n\nTom Boerwinkle was born in Independence, Ohio, one of three children of John and Katherine Boerwinkle. John Boerwinkle, an engineer for an oil refinery, was a native of Cleveland and the son of Dutch immigrants who had come to the United States in 1890.\n\nHe attended high school at Millersburg Military Institute, a prep school in Millersburg, Kentucky now known as Forest Hill Military Academy.\n\nBoerwinkle played for the University of Tennessee and helped the team win the 1967 Southeastern Conference championship. The next year, he was named a Helms Foundation first-team all-American.\n\nIn his junior and senior season, he averaged a double-double each season—10.2 points and 12.2 rebounds his junior season and 11.3 points and 15.2 rebounds his senior season.\n\nBoerwinkle was drafted as the fourth pick of the 1968 NBA Draft and played with the Bulls until 1978. Although largely unappreciated during his playing days, Boerwinkle was a very efficient player, using his brawny seven-foot frame to grab rebounds and set picks while teammates like Jerry Sloan, Chet Walker and Bob Love did most of the scoring.\n\nIn addition, he contributed with his passing skills, averaging 3.2 assists per game during his career. On January 8, 1970, Boerwinkle set a Bulls record by grabbing 37 rebounds against the Phoenix Suns. He retired with career totals of 4,596 points, 5,745 rebounds, and 2,007 assists. Boerwinkle also had five triple doubles in his career.\n\nBoerwinkle later served as a radio color analyst for the Bulls. He was a longtime co-owner of the Olympic Oil Co. in Stickney, Illinois.\n\nBoerwinkle died on March 26, 2013 in Willowbrook, Illinois after struggling with myelodysplastic syndrome, a form of leukemia.\n\nUpon his death, longtime Bulls teammate Bob Love said, \"He was a great teammate with a heart of gold. And I always tell people: Half of my baskets came from him. He's one of the best-passing big men of all-time.\" Hall of Fame center and Bulls teammate Artis Gilmore said, \"He understood his role extremely well. He had a very big body and he absorbed a lot of space. With those behind-the-back and over-the-head passes, he was very good. He understood the game and he played intelligent basketball.\"\n\nHe was survived by his wife of 41 years, Linda, son Jeff and daughter Gretchen.\n"}
{"id": "2315115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315115", "title": "Loud as Fuck", "text": "Loud as Fuck\n\nLoud as Fuck (censored as Loud as F@*k) is a compilation album by the heavy metal band Mötley Crüe. It was released in 2004 on Mötley. The record includes 40 of the group's greatest tracks remastered with 10 promo videos. It was developed with the help of former Kerrang! Editor Dante Bonutto and Mötley Crüe bassist Nikki Sixx.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2315118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315118", "title": "Digital sum in base b", "text": "Digital sum in base b\n\nThe digital sum in base \"b\" of a set of natural numbers is calculated as follows: express each of the numbers in base \"b\", then take the sum of corresponding digits and discard all carry overs. That is, the digital sum is the same as the normal sum except that no carrying is used.\n\nFor example, in decimal (base 10) arithmetic, the digital sum of 123 and 789 is 802:\n 123\n\nMore usually the digital sum is calculated in binary (base 2) where the result only depends upon whether there are an even or odd number of 1s in each column. This is the same function as parity or multiple exclusive ors.\n\nFor example:\n\nThe binary digital sum is crucial for the theory of the game of nim.\n\nThe digital sum in base \"b\" is an associative and commutative operation on the natural numbers; it has 0 as neutral element and every natural number has an inverse element under this operation. The natural numbers together with the base-\"b\" digital sum thus form an abelian group; this group is isomorphic to the direct sum of a countable number of copies of Z/\"b\"Z.\n"}
{"id": "2315119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315119", "title": "The 20 Cent Quest", "text": "The 20 Cent Quest\n\nThe 20 Cent Quest is an Australian ATOM Award-winning Macromedia Flash animation created at Lara Primary School by two grade 6 students in 2003. It was created by Nicholas Bouvier and Matthew Heilbronn and won two national awards for K-8 student animation in 2003.\n\nMatthew and Nicholas began by learning to use Flash, and creating characters individually. They then worked out the basic plot of two characters bumping into each other, losing a coin, and then searching for said coin. Their story grew and evolved throughout production. The production didn't happen quickly, it took several terms to complete. In the early days, the animation was very basic, originally viewers had to click on the character's speech bubble each time they said something.\n\nThe two learned to use layers effectively, insert sound, motion tweens, morphing and became competent in using Macromedia Flash. After going to Canberra for their grade six camp, they included photos of the War Memorial and Parliament House and then included John Howard (Who had the letters \"PM\" on his head which, of course, stands for \"Prime Minister\"), Simon Crean and Ian Thorpe into the animation. The 20 Cent Quest has been shown on local Geelong television, The National Film and Sound Archive, in Canberra and many other places.\n\nThe animation won both K-8 categories of 'Best Junior (K8) Film/Video Production' and the 'Best Student Multimedia Production—Junior (K-8)' at the 2003 ATOM Awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "2315127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315127", "title": "Marcus Fizer", "text": "Marcus Fizer\n\nDarnell Marcus Lamar Fizer (born August 10, 1978) is an American former professional basketball player.\n\nFizer played high school basketball at Arcadia High School in Arcadia, Louisiana. As a senior, Fizer was selected to play in the McDonald's All-American Game.\n\nIowa State Cyclones head coach Tim Floyd became aware of Fizer's potential while coaching in Louisiana and interested Fizer in playing collegiate basketball at Iowa State University. Fizer became the first (and only as of 2017-18) McDonald's All-American to play for the Cyclones.\n\nTim Floyd left Iowa State to coach the Chicago Bulls of the NBA after Fizer's freshman year and was replaced by Larry Eustachy. While playing for both Floyd and Eustachy, Fizer accumulated many Big 12 Conference and national accolades including All-Big 12 honorable mention (freshman), National first-team All-Freshman, first team All-Big 12 (sophomore and junior), Big 12 Player of the Year (junior), Big 12 Tournament Most Outstanding Player (junior), and consensus first-team All-America (junior). He led the Big 12 in scoring his sophomore and junior seasons. Following a Big 12 regular season title, Big 12 tournament title, and NCAA Tournament Elite Eight finish his junior year, Fizer elected to declare for the NBA Draft.\n\nFizer is ranked fifth on ISU's career scoring list with 1,830 points recorded during his three seasons.\n\nFizer was selected with the fourth pick of the 2000 NBA Draft by the Chicago Bulls, coached by Tim Floyd, the coach that recruited him to Iowa State. Many analysts suspected that the Bulls had drafted Fizer merely to trade him for another player, since the Bulls already had Elton Brand at the power forward position. However, no such trade ever took place, and Fizer spent the next four years with the Bulls. He never averaged more than 12.3 points per game. Fizer tore his ACL in late January 2003. In 2004, he was selected by the Charlotte Bobcats in the expansion draft. Not making their final roster, he signed as a free agent with the Milwaukee Bucks.\n\nAfter one season in Milwaukee, he failed to sign a free agent deal with another team. In November 2005, he signed with the Austin Toros of the NBA Development League. On March 8, 2006, Fizer signed a 10-day contract with the Seattle SuperSonics, but did not play any games for them. On March 31, 2006, he was named the NBA Development League MVP for the 2005–2006 season. The same day, he was signed to a 10-day contract with the New Orleans Hornets.\n\nHe appeared in 289 career NBA games, making 35 starts and averaging 9.6 ppg, 4.6 rpg and 1.2 apg, shooting .435 from the floor and .691 from the free throw line in 20.9 mpg. Fizer scored 20+ points 17 times, with 10+ rebounds on 22 occasions in his four-year NBA career.\n\nFizer played for the gold medal-winning United States team at the 2001 Goodwill Games in Brisbane, Australia while averaging 4.8 points and 3.0 rebounds, shooting .550 from the floor.\n\nIn the summer of 2006 he signed a one-year contract with Polaris World Murcia of the Spanish league ACB. Then he played with Capitanes de Arecibo, in the Puerto Rico professional basketball league (BSN). In 2007 Fizer signed a two-year deal with the Israeli team Maccabi Tel Aviv. In the 2007–2008 season the Israeli Super League club reached the Euroleague championship game, eventually losing to CSKA Moscow. Fizer was unable to play in the later stages of the Euroleague due to a knee injury that led to the termination of his contract with Maccabi just before the 2008–2009 season started.\n\nIn February 2010, Fizer signed with the Guaynabo Mets of Puerto Rico, along with Antoine Walker. In 11 games he averaged 13.4 points, 6.6 rebounds and 2.5 assists per game.\n\nIn December 2011, Fizer signed with the Taiwan Mobile Clouded Leopards of Taiwan. He was later released after playing just one game with them, despite scoring an impressive 23 points, 13 rebounds and 2 assists.\n\nIn September 2012, Fizer joined Estudiantes de Bahía Blanca of Argentina. In 13 games he averaged 17.2 points, 6.4 rebounds and 1.4 assists per game.\n\nFizer has 31 tattoos.\n\nOff the court, he has served as a youth minister. Fizer said in an interview, \"My uncle, who was my mother’s brother, was taking her to get an abortion, and I don’t know if he lost the car or what, but he lost control and crashed into a church. The members of the church helped them and the minister told them 'whatever you’re thinking about doing, don’t do it, because you’re carrying a minister' without her even showing signs of pregnancy.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2315129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315129", "title": "Institute for the Study of Academic Racism", "text": "Institute for the Study of Academic Racism\n\nThe Institute for the Study of Academic Racism (ISAR) is an organization that monitors \"changing intellectual trends in academic racism, biological determinism, and eugenics.\" ISAR states that in this capacity it \"acts as a resource service for students, academics, journalists, legislators and civil rights activists.\" ISAR was founded by Barry Mehler in 1993. The institute maintains an online presence housed by, but independent from, Ferris State University.\n\nProponents of eugenics such as the late Glayde Whitney accused Mehler of using what they perceive as \"inquisition-like\" tactics in order to discredit controversial scientists such as Raymond Cattell and Richard Lynn on what they considered to be nonscientific grounds. Whitney stated that Mehler combats those he accuses of racism primarily through popular rather than scientific channels (for example TV programs, such as \"Geraldo\").\n\n"}
{"id": "2315130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315130", "title": "Bolívar soy yo", "text": "Bolívar soy yo\n\nBolívar Soy Yo is a 2002 Colombian-French film detailing the story of an actor who is known for his interpretation of \"El Libertador\", Simón Bolívar. The excitement of the role and the admiration of the public are so strong that reality and fiction begin to mix. Finally, reaching the limits of stage-acting, the actor himself believes that he is Bolívar.\n\nSantiago Miranda (Robinson Díaz) is a famous actor in a popular Colombian soap opera, depicting the role of Simón Bolívar, “The Libertador”, a Venezuelan soldier who played a major piece in the independence of South America and became their president. He speaks briefly of Don Quixote, an old novel where an old man wants to be a chivalrous knight of old and the local villagers secretly go along with it to humor him. As he stands, giving a motivational and deep speech before he is to be killed off, he exclaims for the director to cut. He declares that he will not have Bolívar die this way. He leaves the set, still wearing the costume, and heads home to his mother.\n\nHis co-star and ex-girlfriend, Manuela/Alejandra Baberini (Amparo Grisales), is then sent by the director to reign him in after they speak with his mental health doctors. While she goes to find him, many people are playfully mistaking Santiago as Bolívar. He seems to start believing he is Bolívar as we see his health slowly deteriorate with each fan's reaction to him. When the mental health doctors finally catch him, they have him placed in a ward/clinic with a straight jacket as if he is a danger to himself. When he is let out by Manuela, they go to the beach together and spend alone time finally to themselves. They talk things out, everything is going well until he pretends he has drowned and upsets her by trying to scare her after she runs to check on him.\n\nHe later attends what appears to be a publicity stunt, which goes haywire. He loses himself as time progresses, going as far as kidnapping a government official and making demands. He seems to think he can change their world, as Bolívar was supposed to. Him having a small binge drinking episode does not help, either. Santiago brings the government official onto a boat, where ‘his’ revolutionaries take over when they do not like a command given by ‘Bolívar’. By this time, Manuela has found him and is also taken captive. She tells him that the director will allow him to rewrite the ending for Bolívar, which he seems to no longer care about.\n\nManuela even plays along, wanting to reach out to Santiago. However, she starts to believe that he thinks he is Bolívar. He asks her, “Do you really believe that I think I’m Bolívar?”. Santiago has written an official declaration for the government official he kidnapped to legalize, had they not been interrupted. It causes confusion of whether or not he really does believe it. Together, Santiago and Manuela plan to rescue the other government officials from the revolutionaries, in which they die from afterwards. Then, at the very last moment, there is clapper board that cuts the scene.\n\n"}
{"id": "2315131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315131", "title": "Leonard Whiting", "text": "Leonard Whiting\n\nLeonard Whiting (born 30 June 1950) is an English actor and singer who is best known for his role as Romeo in the 1968 Zeffirelli film version of \"Romeo and Juliet\" opposite Olivia Hussey's Juliet, a role which earned him the Golden Globe Award for New Star of the Year – Actor.\n\nWhiting was born in the Wood Green area of London, England, the only son of Peggy Joyce (O'Sullivan) and Arthur Leonard Whiting. He has English, Irish and some Romani/Gypsy ancestry. Whiting's love of performing was encouraged at his Primary School, St Josephs RC Highgate where he and sister Linda acted in the School's Nativity plays. Leonard went on to attend St. Richard of Chichester School, Camden Town, leaving just a week or two before beginning work on \"Romeo and Juliet\" (1968).\n\nWhiting had some success as a child singer, winning a Butlins Talent Contest hosted in the holiday camp's packed out Gaiety Theatre. Whiting was later spotted by a theatrical agent at the Connaught Rooms Holborn, where he was performing at a Jewish wedding at the age of 12. He only sang one song (\"Summertime\") which he had rehearsed as a one-off song with the group Teal Lewis and the , who were the entertainment for the evening. This was set up by his father to get him noticed. After hearing him sing, the agent suggested he try out for Lionel Bart's \"Oliver!\" which constantly needed replacements for its child performers. Whiting played the Artful Dodger in the long-running London musical for 18 months, and for 13 months appeared at Laurence Olivier's National Theatre in the production of William Congreve's \"Love for Love\" opposite Olivier, which toured Moscow and Berlin.\n\nDirector Franco Zeffirelli described his discovery, made from 300 youngsters who auditioned during more than three months: \"He has a magnificent face, gentle melancholy, sweet, the kind of idealistic young man Romeo ought to be.\"\n\nHe is also renowned for his on-stage part as the Artful Dodger in the original London cast of \"Oliver!\", where he replaced Davy Jones when Jones and most of the London cast were transferred to New York City for the play's Broadway run.\n\nIn the mid-1970s, his voice caught the attention of \"Abbey Road\" and \"The Dark Side of the Moon\" engineer Alan Parsons, who was in the process of recording what was to be the first album by the Alan Parsons Project, \"Tales of Mystery and Imagination\". Whiting performed lead vocals on the song \"The Raven\" and he also narrated the introduction of the five part musical rendition of \"The Fall of the House of Usher\" on the original 1976 album, which was then replaced by Orson Welles on the 1987 remixed version.\n\nIn 1990, he provided the voice of the Urpney scientist Urpgor in the children's animated television series \"The Dreamstone\". After voicing the character for three seasons, he was replaced by Colin Marsh for the fourth and final season.\n\nIn 2014, he reunited with Olivia Hussey for the film \"Social Suicide\" (2015), their first work together in the 46 years since \"Romeo and Juliet\".\n\nIn 1971 Whiting married model Cathee Dahmen, and in 1972 they had a daughter, Sarah Beth Whiting. They divorced in 1977.\nIn 1995, he married his assistant Lynn Presser.\nWhiting ended his film career, for the most part, in the mid 1970s and subsequently placed his\nfocus upon his theatrical career as an actor and writer. He lives in Hampstead, London.\n"}
{"id": "2315135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315135", "title": "Chickasaw Gardens", "text": "Chickasaw Gardens\n\nChickasaw Gardens is an established upscale neighborhood in midtown Memphis, Tennessee. \n\nChickasaw Gardens is located between Central and Poplar Avenues, near the center of the Interstate 240 loop. The Memphis Pink Palace Museum and Planetarium, the Central Library of the Memphis Public Library System, and the University of Memphis are nearby.\n\nChickasaw Gardens features a lake, sometimes called Memphis Lake or Chickasaw Gardens Lake, home to ducks and other birds. There is a concrete path leading around the west side. Neither fishing nor boats are allowed.\n\nRunning parallel to the lake is a ditch, along the west side of the lake. It is surrounded by a fence. The west end goes to Orange Mound and under Central Avenue, while the east end goes under Poplar Avenue and beside the East High School football and track field. Crossing the ditch, there are vehicular bridges and a foot bridge — closer to the southeastern side of the lake, right beside the south car bridge. \n\nMost of the streets in Chickasaw Gardens are named after different Native American tribes. Examples include Catawba Lane, Iroquois Road, Chickasaw Parkway, and Natchez Lane.\n\nChickasaw Gardens is located on land that was originally part of the estate of Clarence Saunders, the Memphis inventor of the first self-service grocery store named 'Piggly Wiggly'. The Chickasaw Gardens lake was originally constructed as part of an elaborate garden with rustic bridges and a playhouse for Saunders' children. Saunders lost his fortune in 1923 during the stock market crash, and the estate was sold to developers.\n\nA number of the houses in the neighborhood were designed by prominent Memphis architect George Mahan.\n\n\"The Firm\", the 1993 film based on a John Grisham novel, has many scenes filmed in Memphis. The home used for the residence of the main characters is in a different neighborhood, Belle Meade.\n\n\"21 Grams\", which featured Sean Penn and Naomi Watts and was nominated for two Academy Awards, was partially shot in a Chickasaw Gardens house.\n\nChickasaw Gardens Home Owners Association website.\n"}
{"id": "2315143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315143", "title": "Olivio Premium Products", "text": "Olivio Premium Products\n\nOlivio Premium Products, Inc., is a food manufacturing company based in Boston, Massachusetts, United States. It manufactures spreads and cooking products under the Olivio brand name, and is best known for an olive oil-based margarine-like spread.\n\nThe company was founded in 1993 by Lee Iacocca, and is privately held. The president and CEO is Ned Hentz, who is Iacocca's son-in-law.\n\nThree primary products are released under the Olivio brand name:\n"}
{"id": "2315147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315147", "title": "Benny Russell", "text": "Benny Russell\n\nBennett Coe Russell (May 12, 1942 – December 15, 1999) was an American football quarterback who played 1 game in the American Football League, for the Buffalo Bills.\n"}
{"id": "2315156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315156", "title": "Uptown, Memphis", "text": "Uptown, Memphis\n\nUptown Memphis is a neighborhood located near downtown Memphis, Tennessee. In 1999, the Uptown Partnership renamed the historic North Memphis Greenlaw neighborhood \"Uptown\" in concert with a public-private revitalization effort which defined Uptown as one hundred city blocks east of the Wolf River and North of A.W. Willis Avenue. The historic Greenlaw section of this neighborhood consists of the thirty city blocks closest to the Wolf River (this section is bordered by A.W. Willis Avenue to the south, North Seventh Street to the east, Keel Avenue and Chelsea Avenue to the north and the Wolf River to the west).\n\nAreas adjacent to Uptown include St. Jude Children's Research Hospital and the Pinch District.\n\nIn 1856, Greenlaw Addition was laid out by William B. Greenlaw, John O. Greenlaw, Robert F. Looney, John L. Saffarans, Isaac Saffarans and E.T. Keel. These men owned the land north of Memphis across Bayou Gaoyoso from downtown. The Bayou was the original northern boundary of the City of Memphis.\n\nThe thirty block subdivision extended the grid patterns of downtown Memphis and included many desirable features of the time such as cobbled streets, granite curbs, and boulevards lined with sycamore trees. The names of the founders are familiar as the east-west streets honor them: Greenlaw, Saffarans, Looney, and Keel. Mill Street was appropriately named due to the mills that occupied the adjacent riverfront.\n\nThe namesakes of this new addition, the Greenlaw Brothers, arrived in Memphis during the early days of the city's growth where they built open-air markets in the downtown. The other partners in the project were prominent Memphis Businessmen in the 1850s: Robert Looney operated a dry goods store, John Saffarans owned a building supply company and sawmill and E.T. Keel owned grocery stores and property. Many of the original Greenlaw residents were also prominent Memphis businessmen and citizens while the remaining residents were construction tradesmen \n\nBy the Civil War the area was prospering as remaining lots were being developed and businesses such as sawmills, brickyards and breweries were built on the banks of the Wolf River. In 1870, Greenlaw and Chelsea were annexed into Memphis.\n\nOnce Memphis recovered from the devastating effects of the Civil War, Greenlaw witnessed a major commercial and residential development . Small neighborhood businesses concentrated along North Second Street as the area west of North Main became more industrial . Residences included a mix of larger homes on prominent corner locations, smaller duplexes on the inside blocks and shotgun style homes on the alleyways and near the bayou. Originally named High Street, Seventh Street was the prime location for expensive homes due to its topographical advantage. Seventh Street follows the line of a Native American Trail running north and until 1867 it was the only bridge crossing Bayou Gayoso . George Love, a former Mayor of Memphis, built a grand home on North Seventh Street in 1888, which is currently the city's Non-Profit Housing Center. Mr. Love also built investment properties to include four \"Love cottages\" on North Sixth Street in 1890 that have been recently renovated by Memphis Heritage, a preservation nonprofit .\n\nIn its prosperous years, Greenlaw was inhabited by an ethnically and economically diverse population. First generation Irish, German, Jew and Italian immigrants and second generation Americans from the North and Midwest settled in the neighborhood. By 1890, Greenlaw had a large African American population to include owners of neighborhood businesses and professionals living and working in the community.\n\nThe 1912 Mississippi River Flood had a major impact on the Greenlaw neighborhood. It was at the epicenter of the flooding as indicated by four feet deep floodwaters at North Second Street and Mill Street ; 1,200 people fled as floods damaged over 714 homes and 25 manufacturing plants. \n\nGayoso Pumping station was built by the city in 1912 to prevent a recurrence but in 1913 the levee collapsed displacing over 1,000 families and covering twenty city block with water . The Flood Control Act of 1917 proposed more additional levee construction but changes were no enacted until the 1930s as New Deal Construction projects to include permanent concrete box culverts, chamber, and pump stations . \n\nBy the 1920s, many prominent and politically powerful families such as the Walshes, Loves and Guthries had moved out of the neighborhood. This population shift affected the city's support for the neighborhood; the Wolf River Bridge at the north end of Second Street was washed out in the 1930s and was never replaced. With the rapidly evaporating wealthy population, Greenlaw lost its political clout and its sense of being a \"special\" neighborhood . Large homes were sold and often redesigned for more cost effective options such as apartments, rooming houses or business uses. Newly constructed homes were modest, designed to attract blue collar workers who would find the neighborhood convenient and affordable . \n\nWith favorable geography and low property values, Greenlaw was a location of great industrial growth during World War II. By 1945, Philip Belz had built plants in North Memphis for General Motors, Bemis Bag, General Electric, Kroger, U.S. Rubber, and National Biscuit . The neighborhood attracted blue-collar workers and African Americans. Bars, liquor stores and juke joints also opened up, tarnishing the family-friendly atmosphere.\n\nIn an effort to attract more white residents, the Memphis Housing Authority built an all-white housing development called Hurt Village in the 1950s.\n\nRacial tensions were at a high in the 1960s due to the sanitation strike and assassination of Martin Luther King. Most whites who lived in Hurt Village left the area. Since then, most businesses have closed as well as industries. Non-profit groups seek ways to assist the mainly African-American residents left in the area.\n\nIn 2000, Memphis was awarded the Hope VI grant for demolition of Hurt Village. Uptown is currently becoming a mixed community that is rich in culture and people.\n\"The Blind Side\" took place here.\n\nAt one time, Elvis Presley lived in Lauderdale Courts, a small government housing project in this area which has since been renovated into a nicer apartment complex. Michael Oher, a player in the NFL, spent most of his childhood growing up in Uptown Memphis, until the Tuohy family took him in.\n\nDavis, Chris. (2012).Warts & All. Memphis, TN: Memphis Magazine.\n\nFriends for our Riverfront. (2014). Retrieved from the website: http://www.friendsforourriverfront.org/\n\nGriffin, John. (2001). Repeating History. Memphis, TN, Memphis Flyer. Retrieved from: \n\nJemison, P.B., Dunaway, V., & Kremer, R.A., (1979). Greenlaw Rediscovered a History. Memphis, TN: Metropolitan Inter-Faith Association (MIFA)\n\nKeating, J. (1888). History of the City of Memphis Tennessee with illustrations and biographical sketches of some of its prominent men and pioneers. Syracuse, NY: D. Mason and Co. Publishers.\n\nWilliams, Bobby J. (2008). The Floods of 1912 and 1913. Memphis, TN. Shelby County Tennessee History and Genealogy. http://tn-roots.com/tnshelby/history/Floods.htm\n\n"}
{"id": "2315159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315159", "title": "James Boggs", "text": "James Boggs\n\nJames Boggs may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2315163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315163", "title": "WMGK", "text": "WMGK\n\nWMGK (102.9 FM, \"102.9 MGK\") is a commercial FM radio station licensed to serve Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The station is owned by Beasley Broadcast Group and broadcasts a classic rock radio format. The broadcast tower used by the station is located in the Roxborough section of Philadelphia at (), while studios are in Bala Cynwyd. The station features popular Philadelphia radio personalities John DeBella and Andre Gardner.\n\nOn November 26, 1940, the Federal Communications Commission granted WCAU Broadcasting Company a construction permit for a new FM station on 46.7 MHz on the original 42-50 MHz FM broadcast band with the W67PH call sign. The construction permit was modified on January 28, 1941 when the FCC reallocated the station to 46.9 MHz with a corresponding call sign change to W69PH. The station began regular broadcasts on November 2, 1941, and was granted its first license by the FCC on November 18, 1942.\n\nOn November 1, 1943, the station was assigned the WCAU-FM call sign. After the FCC created the current FM broadcast band on June 27, 1945, the commission granted WCAU Broadcasting the authority to begin operating the station on 102.7 MHz on December 17, 1945.\n\nThe FCC granted a voluntarily reassignment of the station's license to Philadelphia Record Company on October 17, 1946. On June 27, 1947, the FCC reallocated the station to 102.9 MHz, followed by another voluntary reassignment of the station's license on November 28, 1947 to William Penn Broadcasting Company. This reassignment was effective on December 18, 1947, at which time the station's call sign was changed to WPEN-FM. The new owners filed an application for a construction permit to move the station to 102.9 MHz on July 12, 1948. A new license for operation on the new frequency was granted by the FCC on August 17, 1950.\n\nWPEN-FM was one of the first two FM stations to be licensed for SCA (subcarrier) service. The station filed an application for the SCA on October 12, 1955, with the FCC granting the authorization on July 1, 1956. Subcarriers could be used to send special programming to subscribers, such as background music for stores and restaurants.\n\nFrom its earliest days until the 1960s, WPEN-FM mostly simulcast 950 WPEN. In 1966, when the Federal Communications Commission no longer allowed most FM stations to simulcast their AM counterparts full-time, WPEN-FM carried a middle-of-the-road format, similar to the AM station, but with fewer interruptions and with mostly pre-recorded DJ comments. Some hours were still simulcast.\n\nOn October 16, 1974, the station's license was voluntarily transferred by the FCC to Greater Philadelphia Radio, Inc. (a subsidiary of Greater Media), with an effective date of January 6, 1975. On September 2, 1975, the station's call sign was changed to WMGK. The station adopted a soft rock format and changed its slogan to \"Magic Music\" with the \"Magic 103\" branding. The first song aired under the new call sign was \"Could It Be Magic\" by Barry Manilow. The music on \"Magic 103\" was mostly album cuts from singer-songwriters of the 1960s and early 1970s, presented in four-song blocks with minimal talk. The station would not play artists primarily found on the Top 40, such as The Carpenters or Anne Murray. The playlist was made up of softer songs heard on album rock stations, from artists such as Elton John, Carole King, Billy Joel and Carly Simon. The format was quite successful, with Greater Media putting \"Magic Music\" on its other FM stations, along with call letters referring to \"Magic,\" WMJC Detroit, WMJX Boston and WMGQ New Brunswick, New Jersey.\n\nOn December 22, 1976, the FCC granted Greater Philadelphia Radio, Inc. a construction permit to relocate the station's transmitter and antenna to the Roxborough section of Philadelphia. The station's license was renewed by the FCC with the new facilities on July 12, 1978.\n\nOver time, WMGK began to lose listeners to WUSL, known as \"US 1\". WUSL had switched from easy listening to a soft vocal format similar to WMGK, but with a shorter playlist of more familiar songs. Eventually, WMGK responded with an even tighter playlist, moving from soft rock to a soft adult contemporary sound and rebounded past WUSL in the ratings. The station was programmed by the late Dave Klahr and signed on by its first midday host Pete Booker, who later programmed Greater Media sister station WMJC in Detroit, and who recently retired as CEO of the Delmarva Broadcasting Company.\n\nIn the mid 1980s, Magic 103 leaned soft, but played several uptempo songs an hour, along with more current product. In the spring of 1986, WMGK started a contemporary jazz show called \"Sunday Morning Jazz\", later renamed \"Sunday Evening Jazz\" in early 1987. The show was hosted by Bob Craig and ended in October 1988 when Craig left the radio station. Craig returned in the spring of 1990, and again hosted a contemporary jazz show, this one running on both Saturday and Sunday nights from 7 p.m. to midnight. Along with the jazz, some soft rock songs were mixed in as well. The show lasted one year and ended in the early summer of 1991. Eventually Philadelphia got its first full-time smooth jazz station in 1993, 106.1 WJJZ, which made its debut two years after WMGK's contemporary jazz show had ended.\n\nWUSL, the chief rival to WMGK, switched to country music in 1981. In 1989, WEAZ, an easy listening outlet known as \"Easy 101,\" made the transition to Soft AC. It later changed its call sign to WBEB, calling itself \"B-101.\" Easy 101 had a large number of listeners, and most of them stayed with the station when it became B-101, causing WMGK to slip in the ratings. In addition, WSNI was also playing adult contemporary music, giving Philadelphia three stations in the AC format.\n\nIn the summer of 1994, feeling that Philadelphia could no longer support three AC stations, Greater Media decided to make changes to WMGK. On July 11, 1994, WMGK dropped the long time AC format and changed it to an all-1970s format. The 70s hits included classic rock, soft rock, disco and R&B. By 1995, the station added a few big 1960s and 1980s hits, and no longer used the term \"Magic.\" By the Fall of 1995, WMGK played mostly classic rock with some rock-friendly classic hits thrown in, but not much of the harder material.\n\nIn 1997, Greater Media acquired two more Phialdelphia FM stations, album rock WMMR and modern AC WXXM. WMGK continued to position itself as a Classic Hits station. But when WYSP changed its format from classic rock to modern rock, WMGK began to describe itself as classic rock, eliminated non-rock 70s songs altogether. Still, with rocker WMMR in the cluster, playing plenty of harder-edged classics, WMGK leaned softer than most classic rock stations.\n\nOn November 17, 2006, at 6 p.m., former New Jersey-based classic rock station WTHK became \"The New Smooth Jazz 97.5 WJJZ.\" With WTHK no longer airing classic rock, WMGK became the Philadelphia region's only classic rock station. The station on 97.5 is now co-owned with WMGK and carries a sports radio format as WPEN-FM, which was once WMGK's call sign.\n\nOn April Fools' Day in 2015, WMGK reverted to its broadcast to its previous adult contemporary/soft rock music format; he announced WMGK \"Magic 103\" and played the old Magic jingles. The prank ended when a listener called in to the station to complain about the loss of classic rock.\n\nOn July 19, 2016, Beasley Media Group announced it would acquire Greater Media and its 21 stations (including WMGK) for $240 million. The FCC approved the sale on October 6, and the sale closed on November 1.\n\nWMGK had three major competitors in Philadelphia. On August 25, 2008, WYSP switched from active rock to classic rock, with a harder sound than that of WMGK. But on September 2, 2011, WYSP switched to Sports Radio WIP-FM. WFKB \"107.5 Frank FM\", licensed to serve Boyertown, Pennsylvania, competed with WMGK in Philadelphia's northern and western suburbs and in the Lehigh Valley. But on March 30, 2009, WFKB switched to Christian programming and became WBYN-FM. Currently, listeners in the northern suburbs of Philadelphia can receive WODE-FM \"99.9 The Hawk\", licensed to serve Easton, Pennsylvania, and primarily focused on the Lehigh Valley.\n\nIn early 2006, WMGK launched a digital HD2 subchannel with its \"WMGK Deep Trax\" format. It features \"classic rock nuggets and 'oh wow' songs that may be a bit outside the radio norm.\" The format has since been switched to oldies.\n\n"}
{"id": "2315165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315165", "title": "Edward B. Rust Jr.", "text": "Edward B. Rust Jr.\n\nEdward Barry Rust Jr. (born August 3, 1950) was chairman of the board of State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company, Bloomington, Illinois. He is a former President and Chief Executive Officer of State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company and State Farm Fire and Casualty Company, State Farm Life Insurance Company and other principal State Farm affiliates. Ed Rust stepped down on September 1, 2015; when Michael Tipsord was named the new President and CEO of State Farm Insurance. Ed Rust's father Edward Sr. and his grandfather Adlai Rust before him also led State Farm.\n\nA native of Illinois, Rust joined State Farm in 1975. He is the son of Edward Barry Rust Sr., who was the former chief executive officer and chairman of State Farm Insurance Companies. He became president and chief executive officer in 1985 and was elected to the additional post of chairman of the board in 1987. \n\nA graduate of Bloomington High School in 1968 and then a graduate of Illinois Wesleyan University in Bloomington, Rust holds both juris doctor and master of business degrees from Southern Methodist University, Dallas, Texas. He serves on the boards of directors of Caterpillar Inc., Peoria, Illinois.; and Helmerich & Payne\n\nHe is also on the board of McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., New York, NY is one of two co-chairs of the Business Roundtable and is on the Board of Directors for the US Chamber of Commerce. The chairman, Harold McGraw III is CEO of McGraw-Hill companies.\n\nIn June 2015 Rust announced that after 30 years he would step down as CEO of State Farm in September 2015.\n\nIn 2013, AdvisoryCloud ranked Edward Rust as the #6 CEO on their Top Chief Executive List.\n\nEdward B. Rust Jr. was inducted as a Laureate of The Lincoln Academy of Illinois and awarded the Order of Lincoln (the State’s highest honor) by the Governor of Illinois in 2003 in the area of Business.\n\n"}
{"id": "2315169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315169", "title": "Harbor Town, Memphis", "text": "Harbor Town, Memphis\n\nHarbor Town is an upscale, new urbanist-style neighborhood in Memphis, Tennessee. Harbor Town sits atop 132 acres on a sandbar known as Mud Island. The neighborhood emphasizes the human, not the automobile, and interaction between neighbors is encouraged. It was the collaborative effort of Memphis native and downtown developer Henry Turley, RTKL of Baltimore, Looney, Ricks and Kiss architectural firm from Memphis and consultant, Tony Bologna. They made a simple book that plainly told \"do this and don't do that\"- development guidelines that would grow Harbor Town into the kind of community now known as New Urbanism. Today, Harbor Town is dense and walkable, offering traditional row houses, contemporary homes, apartments, shops, restaurants, schools, parks, and a marina. It is much studied by city planners from all over the world.\nToday the trees are mature, the cars are tucked away into alleys behind houses, the river beckons, and the downtown core is a stones throw away.\n\nHarbor Town is located just northwest of Downtown Memphis, Tennessee on Mud Island along the Mississippi River.\n\nHarbor Town is home to the upscale, European-style 28 room boutique hotel called the \"River Inn\", which houses the much-acclaimed romantic restaurant \"Paulette's\", and a year-round rooftop bar and restaurant overlooking the Mississippi River called \"Terrace\". A neighborhood bar and grill called \"Tugs\" is across the street from The River Inn. Also on the island is a grocery store, \"Miss Cordelia's\", which is similar to Trader Joe's or Whole Foods but smaller. There is also a full-service spa, a coffee shop called \"Café Eclectic\", the \"Nail Bar\", which offers a glass of wine with a mani-pedi, \"Happy Days\" dry cleaning, a dentist called \"Higginbotham Family Dental\", medical care called \"Harbor of Health,\" and a gym. A Montessori school is located in Harbor Town, where children can go until age 13. There is a foreign-language immersion day-care center where children learn Spanish. Behind the montesori school there is an amphitheater where they hold small concerts in the spring. There is a marina with slips that can be owned or rented.\n\nHarbor Town was closed to everyone except residents for a short period of time in May 2011 when the Mississippi River reached a level of 48.03 feet, 14 feet above flood stage. A 5-foot-high emergency levy was built in the afternoon and evening of May 9, 2011, in the west lane of Island Drive. The east lane remained open in the event that Mud Island had to be evacuated, since Mud Island Drive (the road north of Harbor Town and the only other land access to Mud Island) was under water. Some homes along Wolf River Harbor had to be evacuated but no major damage was reported.\n\nAmong Harbor Town's current and former residents are politicians Harold Ford, Jr., Harold Ford, Sr., Lewis Unglesby, and Myron Lowery. There are many former and current Memphis Grizzlies players and coaches, including Shane Battier, Brian Cardinal, Jake Tsakalaidis, Dahntay Jones and past Grizzlies Head Coaches Marc Iavaroni, Hubie Brown and Mike Fratello. Other present or past residents include Wayne Jackson of the group The Memphis Horns, French opera singer Marie Stephane Bernard, and local entrprenuer Dean Jernigan.\n\n"}
{"id": "2315170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315170", "title": "Thomas Dodd", "text": "Thomas Dodd\n\nThomas Dodd may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2315171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315171", "title": "Lynne A. Battaglia", "text": "Lynne A. Battaglia\n\nLynne Ann Battaglia (born April 14, 1946) is an American lawyer and former jurist from Howard County, Maryland. From 2001–2016 she served as an associate judge on the Maryland Court of Appeals.\n\nBattaglia was born in Buffalo, New York. She earned a J.D. degree from the University of Maryland School of Law in 1974 and was admitted to the bar that same year. Appointed by governor Parris Glendening, since 2001 she has been an associate judge on the Maryland Court of Appeals, the state's highest appellate court. Formerly, she served as United States Attorney for the District of Maryland and as Chief of Staff to Senator Barbara A. Mikulski. Judge Battaglia chairs the Maryland Professionalism Commission, the Women Lawyers in Maryland project and is an associate professor at the University of Maryland and the University of Baltimore School of Law.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2315179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315179", "title": "James Fulbright", "text": "James Fulbright\n\nJames Fulbright is the name of:\n\n"}
{"id": "2315180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315180", "title": "De Sitter double star experiment", "text": "De Sitter double star experiment\n\nThe de Sitter effect was described by Willem de Sitter in 1913 (as well as by Daniel Frost Comstock in 1910) and used to support the special theory of relativity against a competing 1908 emission theory by Walther Ritz that postulated a variable speed of light. De Sitter showed that Ritz's theory predicted that the orbits of binary stars would appear more eccentric than consistent with experiment and with the laws of mechanics, however, the experimental result was negative. This was confirmed by Brecher in 1977 by observing the x-rays spectrum. For other experiments related to special relativity, see tests of special relativity.\n\nAccording to simple emission theory, light thrown off by an object should move at a speed of formula_1 with respect to the emitting object. If there are no complicating dragging effects, the light would then be expected to move at this same speed until it eventually reached an observer. For an object moving directly towards (or away from) the observer at formula_2 metres per second, this light would then be expected to still be travelling at formula_3 ( or formula_4 ) metres per second at the time it reached us.\nIn 1913, Willem de Sitter argued that if this was true, a star orbiting in a double-star system would usually, with regard to us, alternate between moving towards us and away from us. Light emitted from different parts of the orbital path would travel towards us at different speeds. For a nearby star with a small orbital velocity (or whose orbital plane was almost perpendicular to our line of view) this might merely make the star's orbit seem erratic, but for a sufficient combination of orbital speed and distance (and inclination), the \"fast\" light given off during approach would be able to catch up with and even overtake \"slow\" light emitted earlier during a recessional part of the star's orbit, and the star would present an image that was scrambled and out of sequence. That is, Kepler's laws of motion would apparently be violated for a distant observer.\n\nDe Sitter made a study of double stars and found no cases where the stars' computed orbits appeared non-Keplerian. Since the total flight-time difference between \"fast\" and \"slow\" lightsignals would be expected to scale linearly with distance in simple emission theory, and the study would (statistically) have included stars with a reasonable spread of distances and orbital speeds and orientations, de Sitter concluded that the effect \"should\" have been seen if the model was correct, and its absence meant that the emission theory was almost certainly wrong.\n\n"}
{"id": "2315185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315185", "title": "Studebaker Power Hawk", "text": "Studebaker Power Hawk\n\nThe Studebaker Power Hawk was a two-door pillared coupe manufactured by the Studebaker-Packard Corporation for the 1956 model year only. The Power Hawk was technically part of the Studebaker Commander series, and featured the Commander's 259 cubic inch (4.2 L) V-8, which generated with two-barrel carburetor or with an optional four-barrel carb and dual exhaust. The Power Hawk was positioned between the base Flight Hawk pillared coupe and the Sky Hawk pillarless hardtop coupe. The car cost $2,101 before options and weighed 3,095 pounds (1404 kg). Both the Power Hawk and Flight Hawk were dropped at the end of the 1956 model year and replaced with the Studebaker Silver Hawk beginning in 1957. 7,095 were produced in the one year of production.\n"}
{"id": "2315186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315186", "title": "Robert Griffin", "text": "Robert Griffin\n\nRobert Griffin may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2315188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315188", "title": "Downtown Memphis, Tennessee", "text": "Downtown Memphis, Tennessee\n\nDowntown Memphis, Tennessee is the central business district of Memphis, Tennessee and is located along the Mississippi River between Interstate 40 to the north, Interstate 55 to the south and I-240 to the east, where it abuts Midtown Memphis.\n\nIt is home to the Memphis Redbirds, the AAA affiliate of the St. Louis Cardinals, and the Memphis Grizzlies NBA team.\n\nDowntown is the oldest part of the city and includes the riverfront and the bluffs overlooking the Mississippi River. The founders of Memphis dedicated the riverfront to the public \"now and forever\" as long as the public use continued. The land overlooking the riverfront was originally planned to become a \"public promenade\" to be called \"Mississippi Row\". The upper riverfront became the site of the river landing where steamboats were loaded with cotton and other goods in the 19th and early 20th centuries. Between 1844 and 1886 the river landing was paved with limestone and granite cobblestones brought in from the upper Midwest. This created what is today the largest intact Mississippi River landing still in existence, and is listed on the National Register of Historic Places. The explosion of the steamboat \"Sultana\" in 1865 near Memphis was one of the worst marine disasters in history.\n\nThere are several historic residences downtown, particularly in the Victorian Village neighborhood. Other historic homes include the Hunt-Phelan House (1830), the Magevney House (ca. 1835) and the Burkle Estate (1849). The Burkle home and the Hunt Phelan House (533 Beale Street) were reputed to have been part of the underground railroad by which escaped slaves made their way to freedom prior to the Civil War.\n\nIn 1959, the Memphis Downtown Airport was opened on Mud Island, which at that time was called City Island. The one-runway airport could be reached by a pontoon-boat ferry and was used mostly by businessmen and shoppers. The Downtown Airport was closed in 1970. It was replaced in the 1990s by the new urbanist Harbor Town development.\n\nThe Downtown Memphis skyline contains the tallest buildings in the city. The tallest building in Memphis, 100 North Main, is located at the heart of downtown along Main Street at Adams Ave and rises to 430 ft (131m). Some notable and/or historic downtown buildings are:\n\n\nDowntown Memphis consists of 8.4 million square feet (780,000 square meters) of office space, around 1 million square feet (93,000 square meters) of retail space, 3,456 hotel rooms, and 13,400 housing units.\n\nThe administrative core of Memphis and Shelby County is also located in Downtown Memphis. These include the Memphis City Hall, and the Federal Building, located on North Main Street, in the Civic Center Plaza (corner of Main Street and Washington). Downtown Memphis also contains the Memphis branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis.\n\nDowntown Core is the heart of the central business district and includes the majority of office space, retail, entertainment and dining spaces. It is a popular regional destination for entertainment, dining, and tourism and includes attractions such as Beale Street, FedExForum, AutoZone Park, and the Peabody Hotel.\n\n\nDowntown Memphis is located on the banks of the Mississippi River. The Memphis Riverfront stretches from the Meeman-Shelby Forest State Park in the north, to T. O. Fuller State Park in the south.\n\nThe River Walk is a park system along the Mississippi River that connects the Mississippi River Greenbelt Park in the north, to Tom Lee Park in the south.\n\nPoints of interest along the riverfront\n\nCompanies headquartered in Downtown include:\n\nFormer headquarters:\n\nDowntown Memphis is zoned to the following Shelby County Schools (formerly Memphis City Schools) campuses:\n\nDowntown is served by major highways and interstates, public bus and trolley service by MATA, commercial bus service by Greyhound, and passenger train service by Amtrak.\n\nInterstates I-40, I-55, I-69 and I-240 all run directly through downtown, providing direct access to the area from adjacent areas as well as the region as a whole. The new Interstate 22 is about 10 miles away from Downtown. Downtown also serves as the western termination point for U.S. Route 78 as well as U.S. Route 72, and is directly located along U.S. Route 51, U.S. Route 61, U.S. Route 64, U.S. Route 70, and U.S. Route 79.\n\nMATA operates the North End Terminal, its primary hub for Memphis public bus service, at the corner of Main Street and A.W. Willis Avenue. The majority of fixed bus routes operates by MATA terminate at the North End Terminal, therefore bus accessibility in the area is very high.\n\nThe MATA Trolley is a heritage streetcar system that operates three lines in downtown along Main Street, Riverside Drive, and Madison Avenue. It consists of twenty four stations and has a daily ridership of approximately 2,500. Connections between MATA public bus and Main Street trolley line can be made at the North End Terminal.\n\nAmtrak's City of New Orleans passenger train runs through Downtown Memphis twice a day, stopping at Central Station.\n\n"}
{"id": "2315194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315194", "title": "Moqueca", "text": "Moqueca\n\nMoqueca ( or depending on the dialect, also spelled muqueca) is a Brazilian seafood stew. It is slowly cooked in a terracotta cassole. Moqueca can be made with shrimp or fish as a base with tomatoes, onions, garlic, lime and coriander. \n\nThe name moqueca comes from the term \"mu'keka\" in Kimbundu language.\n\nBrazilians have been making \"moqueca\" for at least 300 years.\n\nTraditional \"moqueca\" is recognized as \"moqueca capixaba\" and is native to the state of Espírito Santo. It is a combination of Brazilian and Portuguese cuisine. It is considered a softer and ligher version of moqueca. Lighter oils, such as extra-virgin olive oil, are used instead of palm oil (as in the Bahian version). Urucum pigment is added, and it is always cooked in a traditional clay pan. \"Moqueca capixaba\" can be made with fish, shrimp, crabs, sea crab or lobsters. There is a rare variety made with raw bananas, as a side dish. The dish is usually seasoned with onion, tomatoes, coriander, and chives. It is usually accompanied by pirão, which is the paste made with cassava root flour (\"farinha de mandioca\") and the gravy from the stew.\n\nCapixaba pans, special panellas de barro, are made with black clay and glazed with mangrove tree sap. After being shaped and fired, sap is re-applied. This blackens the clay and makes it water resistant. The pan must be seasoned with oil a couple of times before use.\n\nThese cassole pans are very important to Vitória, and the city is home to a grassroots organization of pan-makers known as \"Associacao Das Paneleiras De Goiabeiras\".\n\n\"Moqueca baiana\" was developed in the state of Bahia, Brazil. It was further influenced by African and Portuguese cuisines by adding dendê palm oil and coconut milk, respectively. Traditional ingredients remain the same with the dish typically garnished with chopped coriander, then served with rice and farofa.\n\n\n2. gastronomia baiana\n"}
{"id": "2315223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315223", "title": "Philo Gubb", "text": "Philo Gubb\n\nThe character of Philo Gubb was created by prolific pulp fiction writer Ellis Parker Butler and first appeared in the May 1913 issue of Redbook magazine. Philo Gubb attained such a high level of popularity that the author's attempt to kill the character off was derailed by public pressure.\n\nPhilo Gubb is a small-town paperhanger who learned his deductive technique by correspondence course, admires Sherlock Holmes, and \"commits a major crime during every case on which he works: the murder of the English language\"(1). Gubb differs from many mainstream fictional detectives in that he is not brilliant, clever, nor egocentric, but he is persistent, good-natured, and occasionally displays common sense. Also in contrast, his work may be characterized by elaborate disguises that deceive nobody, theories that are overhauled at every clue, and the often unintentional solving of mysteries. The nature of the character and his work methods help to create intentionally humorous situations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2315233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315233", "title": "Bobby Greenlease", "text": "Bobby Greenlease\n\nRobert Cosgrove \"Bobby\" Greenlease Jr. (February 3, 1947 – September 28, 1953) was the 6-year-old son of multi-millionaire automobile dealer Robert Cosgrove Greenlease Sr., of Kansas City, Missouri. He was the victim of a kidnapping on September 28, 1953 that led to the largest ransom payment in American history (at the time). Greenlease Jr's kidnappers, however, had no intention of returning him to his family. Before the ransom demand was even issued, he had been murdered by Carl Austin Hall and Bonnie Emily Brown Heady.\n\nThe case was the subject of a 2014 episode of Investigation Discovery's series \"A Crime to Remember\" (Season 2, Episode 8, \"Baby Come Home\").\n\nMulti-millionaire Robert Greenlease made his fortune by introducing General Motors vehicles to the Great Plains in the early 20th century, owning dealerships from Texas to South Dakota. He was 65 years old when Bobby was born in 1947, and the Greenleases doted upon him.\n\nBobby was said to be a trusting boy. According to author John Heidenry, whose book \"Zero at the Bone: The Playboy, the Prostitute, and the Murder of Bobby Greenlease\" is an account of the case, kidnapper Bonnie Heady said that from the moment she appeared at his school posing as his aunt to take him to his sick mother, Bobby just took her hand and did anything he was told to do.\n\nIn September 1953, Carl Hall and Bonnie Heady kidnapped Bobby from Notre Dame de Sion, a Catholic school located in Kansas City, Missouri. The kidnappers were drug-addicted alcoholics then living together in nearby St. Joseph. In the early 1930s, Hall had attended Kemper Military School in Boonville with Paul Robert Greenlease, Bobby's adopted older brother. Hall had planned for years to victimize his former classmate's wealthy family.\n\nHeady went to Bobby's school, persuading a nun that she was his aunt, and told her that his mother had suffered a heart attack. She then took Bobby away and was gone by the time the Greenleases discovered the ruse. The couple then took Bobby across the state line to Johnson County, Kansas, where Hall shot him dead with a revolver. They then took the child's body to St. Joseph and buried him in the backyard of Heady's house at 1201 South 38th Street.\n\nAfter the murder, Hall and Heady sent Bobby's father a message demanding a ransom of $600,000 ($ million today). Greenlease, desperately trying to save his son, held off the police and the FBI, paying the money. At that time it was the largest ransom ever paid in American history, and remained so until the 1972 kidnapping of Virginia Piper. Hall became convinced that police would trace them to St. Joseph, so he randomly decided to drive to St. Louis. The couple collected the ransom and fled.\n\nOnce in St. Louis, Hall left Heady in the middle of the night in a rented room. He contacted criminal associates to enlist their help in diverting police attention. One of the associates, a former prostitute named Sandra O'Day, was supposed to fly to Los Angeles and mail a letter Hall had written. It was thought that this would divert police attention from St. Louis. However, O'Day caught a glimpse of the ransom money. St. Louis police soon learned that Hall was flaunting a large sum of money, and they brought him in for questioning.\n\nHall eventually implicated Heady. The police found her at an apartment at 4504 Arsenal Street and discovered Bobby's body in a shallow grave in her backyard. Bobby was later interred in a mausoleum at Forest Hill Cemetery in Kansas City.\n\nBobby's kidnapping and murder scandalized the nation and soon led to federal indictments for Hall and Heady. Both pleaded guilty to kidnapping and murder, and were executed together in the Missouri gas chamber on December 18, 1953.\n\nHeady was one of only two women since 1865 to be executed by federal authorities. The other one was Ethel Greenglass Rosenberg. Since the federal government did not have any execution facilities, Missouri's state facilities were used to carry out the executions.\n\nOnly $288,000 of the ransom money was recovered. The missing $312,000 remained a subject of wide speculation. Some of the theories accounting for this were:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2315234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315234", "title": "Harmony River (Ontario)", "text": "Harmony River (Ontario)\n\nThe Harmony River is a river in Algoma District in northeastern Ontario, Canada that empties into Harmony Bay, part of the larger Batchawana Bay, on Lake Superior at the community of Harmony Beach. The river is known for its rainbow smelt run in the spring and white water kayaking in the early spring and late fall.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2315236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315236", "title": "John McClellan", "text": "John McClellan\n\nJohn McClellan may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2315239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315239", "title": "Weatherbys", "text": "Weatherbys\n\nThe Weatherbys Group is a UK conglomerate involved in a wide range of activities largely within banking and horse racing. The original business was founded by James Weatherby in 1770.\n\nJames Weatherby was appointed to serve the Jockey Club as its Secretary and stakeholder in 1770. He was an able and entrepreneurial man and over the next 25 years laid strong foundations for the business.\n\nUnder his aegis, his first racing calendar was published in 1773, followed, in 1791, by the publication of The General Stud Book, a definitive record of the pedigrees of approximately 400 horses which became the foundation for all thoroughbred bloodstock worldwide. He was assisted in this by his nephew, whose work on racehorse pedigrees dovetailed neatly with James's racing work.\n\nFor the next 250 years, Weatherbys has continued in the role of administrators to the Jockey Club. Today, every data detail relating to horses, owners, trainers, jockeys, stable employees and races is processed through Weatherbys. All of the 10,500 Thoroughbred races held in Britain each year are drawn together at the company's Northamptonshire HQ. The firm still owns and publishes the General Stud Book, recording the production of thoroughbred bloodstock in Britain and Ireland.\n\nThere has been diversification. \n\nInto printing – the Racing Calendar, racecourse racecards and even publications entirely divorced from racing and breeding form an impressive portfolio. Into laboratory testing - with Weatherbys owning one of Europe's most prestigious genomic-testing facilities for equine and agricultural stock.\n\nAnd into banking.\n\nThere was always the handling of money. From the guineas of 18th century aristocrats to more than £160m of prize money in 2018, the role of “Stakeholder” has always remained vested in Weatherbys. \n\nFor the principal participants in the sport, Weatherbys offered accounting facilities. Holding their winnings to fund their future race entries. By the 1980s, the firm was effectively offering racehorse owners a current account alongside an option for short-term borrowing. \nDiscussions with the Bank of England in 1994 resulted in Weatherbys acquiring a banking licence and the founding of their banking division. \n\nFor the first few years, Weatherbys Bank served its traditional client cohort – racehorse owners, breeders, trainers and a payroll office for jockeys. The banking licence enabled a full suite of financial offerings. Clients had chequebooks, debit cards, loans, term deposits and foreign exchange services. \n\nIn 1997, Arkle Asset Finance, a 100% subsidiary of Weatherbys Bank, was established to provide commercial asset finance services. \nBy 2006, Weatherbys Bank was ready to develop into Weatherbys Private bank and Weatherbys Racing Bank. An office was opened in central London, and Weatherbys Private Bank was devised with wealth criteria applying, but Thoroughbred connection for clients removed. Weatherbys Bank continued to provide services for those engaged in racing and breeding, with approximately 10,000 owners, trainers and jockeys on the books today. The majority of Weatherbys Private Bank's clients are now unconnected to racing.\n\nIn 2012, the insurance broking business, Weatherbys Hamilton was constituted as a partnership with a number of partners providing brokerage services for bloodstock, property and liability insurance.\n\nIn 2020, it will be 250 years since the Jockey Club appointed James Weatherby effectively as its secretary The firm has prospered since and remains in family ownership. Johnny and Roger Weatherby, the seventh generation of the family, run the company today - an unbroken history of family ownership for 249 years.\n\nWeatherbys Ltd The founding company which today is primarily responsible for providing racing services to the British Horseracing Authority (BHA), along with racecard production, pedigree research, printing, publishing, marketing and ticketing services to a range of clients. \n\nWeatherbys GSB Ltd Responsible for General Stud Book registrations, administration and publishing in Great Britain. 100% subsidiary of Weatherbys Ltd. \n\nThe Point-to-Point Racing Company Ltd In 2010, half of the business was bought by the Point-to-Point Authority and this shared ownership (Weatherbys/PPA) remains in place. Provides publishing, administrative and editorial services to the sport of Point-to-point (steeplechase) horse racing in Great Britain. \n\nWeatherbys Ireland Ltd Provides laboratory and other commercial services, largely to the Irish equine industry. Recently diversified to provide extensive DNA and genomic testing services to agricultural stock. \n\nWeatherbys Ireland GSB Ltd Responsible for General Stud Book registrations, administration and publishing in Ireland. 100% subsidiary of Weatherbys Ltd. \nWeatherbys Private Bank provides banking services and investment & wealth advice to a wide range of private individuals. Authorised and regulated by the PRA and FCA the Bank has offices in London, Wellingborough and Edinburgh.\n\nWeatherbys Racing Bank provides banking services to those engaged in horse racing. Authorised and regulated by the PRA and FCA, employees are based in Wellingborough HQ.\n\nArkle Finance Ltd Incorporated in 1997 to provide commercial asset finance services. 100% subsidiary of Weatherbys Bank. \n\nWeatherbys Hamilton LLP Constituted as a partnership in 2012, drawing together 45% involvement from Weatherbys Bank Ltd and 50% from individual partners. Providing brokerage services for bloodstock, property and liability insurance. Offices in Wellingborough, London, Newmarket, Penrith and Swindon.\n\n"}
{"id": "2315240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315240", "title": "Yisroel Ber Odesser", "text": "Yisroel Ber Odesser\n\nRabbi Yisroel Dov Ber Odesser () (approx. 1888 – 23 October 1994), also known as Reb Odesser or Sabba (\"grandfather\" in Hebrew), was a Breslover Hasid and rabbi who claimed to have received a \"Letter From Heaven\" sent directly to him by Rebbe Nachman of Breslov, who had died 112 years earlier, revealing to him a new remedy for relieving the world's suffering and illness. This remedy is the song and name \"Na Nach Nachma Nachman Meuman\", which he revealed in his old age to newfound followers throughout Israel. His following developed into the Na Nach movement. Some controversies surround the origin of the Letter, Rabbi Odesser's bold claims regarding \"Na Nach Nachma Nachman Meuman\", and his position in the Breslov movement.\n\nOdesser was born in Tiberias when Israel were under Ottoman rule, to a family which for generations were Karliner Hasidim. (His great-great-grandfather, Rabbi Yekutiel Zalman Leib, was a close disciple of Rabbi Abraham Kalisker, a major disciple of the Baal Shem Tov.) In his youth, Odesser also followed the Karliner way, but felt it was not fulfilling his soul.\n\nOdesser first came into contact with the teachings of Rebbe Nachman of Breslov as a young yeshiva student in Tiberias. Someone had ripped the cover off a Hebrew language holy book and thrown it into the garbage. Orthodox Judaism forbids defacing a holy book in this way, so Odesser rescued it with the intention of burying it, as is proper for worn-out Jewish holy books. Before discarding it, however, he decided to read it. This book was \"Hishtafchut HaNefesh\" (\"Outpouring of the Soul\") by Alter Tepliker, which contains excerpts from Rebbe Nachman's writings about meditation and personal prayer. Because the cover was missing, Odesser did not know who the author was, but the teachings worked for him. Only later did he learn it was a Breslover book.\n\nThe first Breslover Hasid whom he met in person was Rabbi Yisroel Halpern (also known as Yisroel Karduner), who came one day to buy bread from Odesser's parents. The young Odesser knew immediately that he had found his teacher, but his parents were strongly opposed to the Breslover path. Eventually his father threw him out of the house and attempted to stop his upcoming wedding. This did not deter him, and he continued to study with Halpern. The wedding took place as planned. Odesser's wife, Esther, supported him through many sufferings and much ridicule from the local townsfolk.\n\nIn those days, it was commonly said among Jews that anyone who became a Breslover Hasid would eventually go insane. This is probably because Breslovers try to spend at least an hour per day in \"hitbodedut\", personal communion with God, which they often performed alone in the woods or fields, often at night, meditating and crying out to God. This was not a usual Jewish practice at the time, and was regarded with deep suspicion. Jews normally prayed indoors with a minyan, not alone in the woods. (The Breslov practice of \"hitbodedut\" is \"in addition\" to the liturgical prayers.) Moreover, when Odesser would pray in the synagogue, it was with such intense fervor that he often began to clap, dance, and spin ecstatically for hours.\n\nDuring the time the British entered Tiberias in World War I, a plague broke out in the city. Halpern became very ill and eventually died, along with most of his family. After Halpern's death in 1918, Odesser became a personal attendant of Rabbi Solomon Eliezer Alfandari, the great Sephardi rav and kabbalist known as the Saba Kadisha, who was living in Tiberias at the time. After seeing Odesser recite the \"Tikkun Chatzot\" (Midnight Lament over the destruction of the Beis Hamikdash one night, however, the Saba Kadisha refused to let him attend him anymore, and instead treated him as a young colleague.\n\nAfter that, Odesser traveled to Jerusalem, where he studied with the elders of the Breslover community in that city.\n\nOn a rainy Tu Bishvat night in 1957, Zalman Shazar (who would become the third President of Israel) was with a friend in Meron. There they saw a Hasid, Odesser, reciting the \"Tikkun Chatzot\" (\"Midnight Lament\") with intense fervor. They were very moved by this, and, when the Hasid had finished, they asked who he was. Thus began a lifelong friendship between Shazar and Odesser. Over the years, Odesser wrote many letters to Shazar, explaining the Breslov way of personal prayer and devotion, and urging him to return to God (Shazar was non-religious at the time). Shazar was greatly inspired by these letters and did become more religious. He later published the letters, along with a short biography of Odesser, in a Hebrew book entitled \"Ibay Ha-Nachal\" (in Hebrew: אבי הנחל). In 1995, this book was translated into English as \"Young Buds of the Stream\".\n\nThe word \"ibey\" (אבי), meaning \"buds\", in the Hebrew title of the book, is a reversal of the abbreviation of Odesser's name (ישראל בער אדסר). The Hebrew title \"\"Ibey Ha-Nachal\"\" therefore has the double meanings \"\"Yisroel Odesser, the stream/river\"\" and \"\"Young Buds of the Stream\"\".\n\nWhen he was approximately 24 years old, Odesser came into possession of a document later published as \"The Letter from Heaven\" (known colloquially as the Petek).\n\nAccording to Odesser, he succumbed to cravings during the fast of the Seventeenth of Tammuz and he ate something. He was severely distraught as a result. For six days he suffered intensely and felt like a dead man. He prayed and had a \"powerful thought enter [his] mind\" to \"Go to your room and open the bookcase, and put your hand and any book…and open it to wherever it opens…and there you will find good things that will enable you to revive yourself; there you will find a healing for your soul!\" Acting on this thought, he chose a book, opened it, and found a letter inside containing words of greeting and encouragement, along with a phrase in the Hebrew language based on the four letters of the name \"Nachman\" (i.e., Rebbe Nachman of Breslov), added one letter at a time, in a Kabbalistic \"achorayim\" form.\n\nAnother Hasid by the name of Yoel said later that he had been the one who wrote the letter to Odesser after seeing how distraught he was over having to break his fast. Odesser claimed in rebuttal that his room had been locked and only he had the key, and maintained that this document was miraculously communicated to him.\n\nOdesser's publicizing of \"Na Nach Nachma Nachman Meuman\" was rejected by mainstream Breslovers for many decades. Around 1984, when he was approximately 86 years old and living in an old age home in Ra'anana, Israel, a group of baalei teshuva (returnees to the Jewish faith) discovered Odesser and were attracted to his teachings. He eventually became their spiritual leader. The name and song, \"Na Nach Nachma Nachman Meuman\" was adopted by this subgroup of Breslover Hasidim and has appeared on billboards, bumper stickers, and knitted yarmulkes, as well as in musical compositions of this group (colloquially known as the \"Na Nachs\") ever since.\n\nIn the early 1980s, Rabbi Odesser met with Rabbi Moshe Feinstein, who had seen the \"petek\" and wished to meet its owner. At the meeting, Rabbi Feinstein asked Rabbi Odesser for a blessing, and Rabbi Feinstein also called in his wife to get a blessing from Rabbi Odesser. Rabbi Feinstein gave Rabbi Odesser the following approbation:\n\nI am writing on behalf of a most unusual individual, Rabbi Yisroel Dov Odesser, \"shlita\", from Israel. This individual is a gaon in Torah. I had the pleasure of recently meeting with him. I saw a secret document he possesses; it is something very wondrous.\n\nRabbi Odesser is soliciting funds to enable him to print Rabbi Nachman's sefarim, and it is a great mitzvah to assist him in this endeavor. Hashem will reward all those that so assist him.\n\nRabbi Moshe Feinstein\n\nThose who doubt the authenticity of the \"petek\" downplay Rabbi Feinstein's approbation by saying that he was known for his lovingkindness and his desire to help people. They say that all Rabbi Feinstein wrote was that the \"petek\" was wondrous, but he didn't verify its authenticity.\n\nIn his later years, Odesser attracted many new followers to Breslov. Many families made aliyah from France. He spent time living anywhere from a week to a month or longer in the homes of his new followers. He would most frequently reside in Meron, Tzefat, Tiberias, Ramat Gan, Bnei Brak, Beitar, Mevaseret Zion, and in the Jerusalem neighborhoods of Har Nof, the Old City, and Neve Yaakov.\n\nOdesser collected close to half a million dollars in tzedaka (charity) money in two years without leaving his wheelchair. People would run to bring him \"pidyonot\". He left the entire sum to establish Keren Yisroel Dov Odesser for printing and distributing the books of Rebbe Nachman at subsidized prices. The Keren was run by Rabbi Amram Horowitz, Odesser's grandson and grandson of Shmuel Horowitz of Breslov fame, until his death in 2009.\n\nA few days before his death at the age of 106, Rabbi Odesser recorded these words on tape:\n\nAll the world, and the whole government, do not know who I am! Behold, I inform them who I am! I am \"Na Nach Nachma Nachman Meuman\"!\n\nWho is the Rebbe of the whole world? Rebbe \"Na Nach Nachma Nachman Meuman\"!\n\nI am \"Na Nach Nachma Nachman Meuman\"!\n\nHis detractors thought he had gone senile and was literally claiming to be Nachman of Breslov, who is buried in Uman, Ukraine. Others say he was speaking of his total identification with the name \"Na Nach Nachma Nachman Meuman\" and with Rebbe Nachman. Still others say he had become a \"spiritual emanation\" of the soul of Rebbe Nachman.\n\nOdesser died on 23 October 1994 and was buried on Har HaMenuchot (Gush 11, Chelka bet), Jerusalem. On his tombstone is engraved: \"Rabbi Israel Dov Ber Odesser, \"a\"h\", [who] said, 'I am \"Na Nach Nachma Nachman Meuman\".'\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2315246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315246", "title": "The Skinners' School", "text": "The Skinners' School\n\nThe Skinners' School (formally The Skinners' Company's Middle School for Boys and commonly known as Skinners'), is a British grammar school with academy status for boys located in the town of Royal Tunbridge Wells, Kent, England. Established in 1887 October 13, the school was founded by the Worshipful Company of Skinners (one of the 108 livery companies of the City of London) in response to a demand for education in the region. Today Skinners' remains an all-boys grammar school, recently awarded specialist status in science and mathematics in recognition of these disciplines' excellent teaching. The current enrolment is 1061 pupils, of whom around 230 are in the sixth form. The first headmaster was Reverend Frederick Knott, after whom Knott House is named. The current Headmaster is Edward Wesson.\n\nSkinners' boys generally take eleven General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) tests in Year Eleven (aged 15–16), and they have a choice of three or four A-levels in the sixth form. An Office for Standards in Education, Children's Services and Skills (Ofsted) inspection in 2007 graded The Skinners' School as \"outstanding\". The majority of students go on to higher education following the completion of their A-levels at the end of Year Thirteen (aged 17–18), and in 2011, one in ten Year 13 students gained an Oxbridge offer.\n\nThe first school to be associated with Worshipful Company of Skinners was Tonbridge School. This 'Free Grammar School' was founded in 1553 by Andrew Judde a wealthy London fur trader and native of Tonbridge. On his death governance of the school passed to the Skinners Company where he had been Master for many years. Subsequently, the Skinners Company, like many other City Guilds, took an active interest in supporting education. For many years this took the form of charitable grants and scholarships. However, by the late nineteenth century, there was rising pressure to expand educational provision beyond that currently provided by the existing 'endowed schools' like Tonbridge and the relatively basic, local 'state national schools'. Skinners Company proposals for a second school \"at Tonbridge or at some adjacent locality\" first emerged in 1870, and after a prolonged row between the two towns Royal Tunbridge Wells was chosen as the location.\n\nThe school opened in October 1887 with 53 boys, many of whom had to walk in excess of six miles to reach class each day. Skinners was maintained as a day school until 1894 when the governors allowed borders to be taken on the understanding that the total number would not exceed 50. Soon after the introduction of boarders, the first House system was created with boarders allocated to 'School House', pupils coming in from the surrounding countryside making up 'Weald House', and those living within the town divided between 'East House' and 'West House'. Skinners has always been a selective school with entrance examinations held from the very first year in 1887 through to 1945 when the Eleven-Plus Examination was first introduced. Until the late 1940s Skinners was also a fee-paying school. An advert for the school in 1895 stated: \"The School Fee for Day Boys, which includes tuition, books, stationary and games for boys under 11, £2 18s 4d a term, and for boys over 11, £3 10s a term\".\n\nThe citizens of Tonbridge, angry at the neglect of their sons, encouraged The Company to found a third school in 1888 - Sir Andrew Judd's Commercial School - which is now The Judd School. Finally, in the 1890s, The Company opened a girls school in Hackney, London, called The Skinners' Company's School for Girls.\n\nThe School's Cadet Corps (originally referred to as the Officer Training Corps or OTC) was created in 1900. When the First World War broke out in 1914 a high proportion of these cadets joined the army as junior officers. Many joined the Queen's Own Royal West Kent Regiment which was the most closely affiliated with the Skinners' OTC, but there was also widespread school representation across many other army regiments, the navy and Royal Flying Corps, predecessor to the RAF. By the end of the war 522 Skinners' School Masters and Old Boys had served in the Armed Forces (roughly 40% of the 1200 boys who had attended the school since its foundation). Of these 89 are commemorated on the Memorial at the back of the Old School Hall having paid the ultimate sacrifice for serving their country.\n\nFollowing the outbreak of the Second World War in 1939 the pupils of Colfe's School were evacuated from Lewisham to Tunbridge Wells and shared the Skinners' School premises for three years. Skinners’ boys were taught in the mornings, Colfe's in the afternoons. The air aid shelters that were dug beneath the school still exist, but remain closed to the boys of the school. While the total number serving in the forces appears to be unrecorded, it is known that 61 Masters and Old Boys died, and are recorded alongside those from the First World War on the School memorial.\n\nThe Skinners School, along with the Judd School, Tunbridge Wells Girls Grammar and Tonbridge Girls Grammar, became 'free' voluntary-aided state Grammar Schools in 1948 following the 1944 Education Act. This act introduced the Tripartite System defining three different types of secondary school: grammar schools, secondary technical schools and secondary modern schools.\n\nThe school has expanded and evolved over the years. On 1 April 1992, The school (formerly a voluntary aided grammar school) became a grant maintained school, reverting to voluntary aided status again in 1998, following the Education Reform Act of that year. Recently, additional accommodation has been provided for purpose-designed design and technology facilities and classrooms; a modern languages centre was completed in 2002 and a new music and performing arts centre opened in 2003. Ongoing development of the latter will provide further valuable provision for both curricular and extracurricular activities. Recent refurbishments have included new facilities for the sixth form. Specialist science status was awarded in 2005, which resulted in refurbishment of the science block. The school has since also gained mathematics and computing specialism status, and also achieved the 'green flag' status as an ecoschool five times. The school won a prestigious teaching award in 2009 in recognition of the work completed concerning environmental sustainability. On 1 February 2014 the school converted to academy status.\n\nA full program of team games is maintained throughout the year with notable successes, particularly in rugby, cricket and athletics. The school enjoys a deep rivalry with The Judd School and, to a lesser extent, with Tunbridge Wells Grammar School For Boys.\n\nThe school consists of a range of buildings built at various stages of the school's history. While each building services specific departments, these have changed as new building/facilities became available:\n\nThe Old School Hall (1887) \nThe red-brick, Early English Gothic building facing St.Johns Road is the oldest building on the main school site. The architect, E.H. Burnell had previously designed the front-facing buildings of Tonbridge School in a similar Gothic style. The main building is entered via heavy wooden doors, and a gothic stone, entrance hall, overlooked by an oriel window, designed to provide the original headmaster with a full right and left view from his office.\n\nThe main hall is buttressed with brick and stone piers, and well lit with fourteen stone traceried windows. On the inside the central hall is 170 ft by 30 ft long, with a \"noiseless\" wood block floor, carved corbels along the walls and a moulded timber roof. In 1903 the School acquired a magnificent organ from St. Johns Church, which still takes pride of place, alongside a narrow stage. In this room the Skinners' School morning assembly took place for over 70 years until the building of the 'New Wing' in 1960. To the left of the entrance is the main staff room. From the entrance hall, stairs run up to a gallery overlooking the main hall, which was dubbed the Bab-el-Mandeb Straits by the boys in early days, as it defined the 'dangerous' narrow passage leading to the headmaster's office (now the Bursar's Office). To the right of this gallery is the Old Library, soon to be moved to the new Library Building.\n\nFurther up the clock tower used to be the home of the music department, but this moved once more extensive facilities became available.\n\nBeneath, and to the back of the main hall there used to be a covered playground, the scene of many early, break-time, football matches, now reassigned as toilet facilities. Buildings move on, not always for the better, however practical the need.\n\nThe School House (1887) \nThe School House was originally built as the Headmaster's residence, but given its commodious proportions, it soon doubled up as a boarding house for close to a dozen boys. It now contains administrative offices including the school reception, headmaster's and deputy headmaster's offices.\n\nByng Hall (1900)\nWhile the School did not acquire Byng Hall until 2003 the School had been a close supporter of St. John's Church Institute, who originally took residence in the Hall from its inauguration in 1900. Byng Hall was named after Lady Byng whose generous financial contribution had enabled the Hall to be built. Lady Byng was a direct descendant of the infamous Admiral John Byng who'd been executed in 1757 for allowing the French to take Minorca. He was a scapegoat and everyone knew it. Voltaire made a wry reference to Byng's execution in Candide, commenting that: \"in this country, it is good to kill an admiral from time to time, in order to encourage the others\". Given this historic injustice it was fitting that the Hall should be officially opened by another more celebrated Admiral, Charles Davis Lucas, the very first recipient of the Victoria Cross. As a young midshipman, Lucas had saved many lives though his courage and quick thinking. During the Crimean War a live shell had landed on the deck of his ship in the midst of a fierce artillery exchange with the Russians. Lucas ignored the desperate cries to take cover. Instead of hitting the deck, he ran forward, picked up the still fizzing shell, carried it to the rail and dropped it overboard a fraction of a second before it exploded with a tremendous roar. He later married Lady Byng's niece, and was no doubt more than happy to play his part in restoring the good name of the family. It fell to Skinners' first headmaster Reverend Frederick Knott to lead the vote of thanks for Admiral Lucas' heroism and the Byng family's generosity in funding the building of the Hall.\n\nOriginally the St John's Church Institute and later part of St John's Primary School, the governors of Skinners' had been hoping to purchase it for many years. It is stylistically very similar to the Main Building and School House and is viable from the front of the school plot.\n\nSkinners' received grants from central government and ran an appeal in school and through the old boys network to raise the funds for the buildings purchase and renovation. The final building received a conservation award from the Tunbridge Wells Civic Society for the sensitive restoration which now enables Byng Hall to be used by the music and drama department; school drama productions and music recitals in The Thomson Theatre are prominent features in the school calendar.\n\nThe Old Gym (1900) \nThe original School Gymnasium was constructed in 1900. It is now too small to meet the sporting needs of the pupils and temporarily acted as a careers office and gallery room for the art department. Currently the old changing area serves as the headquarters and equipment stores for the CCF. The gym area has become a new sixth form study area/common room with recreational seating and computers available to sixth form students during break/lunchtime, free periods and before/after school. There are plans to convert the old gym into an \"Expressive Arts Building\" with classrooms for the English department, a library and a large area for the sixth form.\n\nThe New Wing (1960) \nDue to its stark architecture, the concrete building is most out of place within the school and is often ironically referred to as The 'New' Wing. It contains the physics and chemistry laboratories and more recently now serves the biology laboratories. The laboratories were completely renovated on the school being awarded special science status in 2005 which prompted the biology department's move. New Wing also contains the sixth form facilities and the dining hall, which contains the canteen and is where whole school assembly is held before lessons every Monday morning.\n\nThe Knox Wing (1980) \nThe Knox Wing contains 8 class rooms each of very similar appearance. These rooms serve as form rooms and also class rooms for economics, geography, history, religious studies and Politics.\n\nThe Leopard Building (1994)\nThe Leopard Building contains dedicated rooms for art and design/technology. Recently it has become home to IT rooms and the other class rooms serve as form rooms and rooms for mathematics. In 2010 the design technology rooms were upgraded to include facilities for delivering food technology.\n\nThe Cecil Beeby Building (2002)\nThe Cecil Beeby Building named after one of Skinners' School's long-serving headmasters, provides dedicated resources for the modern foreign language department and also provides form rooms. It was built on the site of two old cabins where German used to be taught.\n\nThe New Sports Hall (2012)\nThe New Sports Hall was officially opened by the Chair of the Governing Body on 9 November 2012. Inside the main hall can accommodate four badminton courts, five a side football, basketball, hockey training and cricket practice nets. At the far end it holds a large indoor climbing wall and upstairs houses a state of the art fitness suite, dance studio and classroom.\n\nSouthfields\nSkinners' owns a large set of playing fields just along the main road that runs outside the school on the border of Tunbridge Wells and Southborough. Called Southfields, it was originally intended to be the site for the new school when plans were drafted in the 1930s. World War II prevented the move from occurring, but the foundations for the buildings are still present in one corner.\n\nThe fields are home to five rugby pitches, a football pitch, cricket nets, three cricket squares and various athletics facilities. The pavilion, featuring three changing rooms, was rebuilt in 2005 following an arson attack.\n\nEach year group at the school is divided into forms. In years 7 and 8 there are 5 forms, organised by house as assigned to the pupils on entering the school. In years 9-11 the pupils are reorganised into forms represented by colours: blue, green, red and yellow. In years 10 and 11 there are separate teaching groups from the forms. In the sixth form there are five forms in each year.\n\nAll students are assigned a house on entering the school. The five houses of Skinners' are named after notable contributors to the school, each designated a colour which determines the colour of the trim on the school blazers, caps and scarves worn by the pupils, as well as athletics kits. While the house only initially determines which form the student is in (this was not the case for the years starting in September 2013 – 2016 as there were five forms), it forms the basis of sport teams throughout each pupil's career at the school. As such, friendly rivalries exist between each house especially amongst cricket hockey and rugby teams, with competition peaking at sports day. In the year starting September 2017, a fifth house will be introduced, of which the details are unconfirmed. This fifth house is going to be introduced because the school takes five forms in every year (instead of four, which was the case until September 2013) and wants to return to the system where the forms in years 7 and 8 are based on house. The aptly named Charles Nicholson opened the house, as the first House Captain of the new house - migrating almost 300 students to the new form. \nThese houses are:\n\nThe Skinners' School has uniform requirements that apply to all boys at the school, including those in the sixth form. These requirements have changed over the decades.\n\nTraditionally<br>\nVariations throughout each school year, although some traditions have been repealed:\n\n\nThere was also the \"honours\" school tie for pupils who made an achievement for the school name, such as winning a local inter-school race. This tie was red, black, and white, diagonally striped.\n\nPresent Day<br>\nYears 7-10:\n\nYears 11-13:\n\nSports Kit<br>\nPE/Gym Lessons\n\nGames\n\nOther ties are also available, however. Sporting achievements result in the presentation of school 'colours', a tie unique to the sport the achievement was gained in, which is presented by the headmaster in front of the school. The same goes for outstanding ability within the CCF. Prefect ties can be worn by the head boy, deputy head boys and senior prefects, as well as school and form prefects (These are black with horizontal red stripes).\n\nMany boys have represented sports teams at county, regional and national level. Ties awarded to such boys are also accepted within the uniform policy.\n\n\nThe sixth form are provided with their own common room, featuring a canteen and recreational seating, and an adjacent study centre equipped with computing facilities. There is also a common room for prefects situated under the headmaster's office in School House. There is also a common room for Sixth Form English students equipped with computing facilities and recreational seating area.\n\nThe current head of sixth form is Mr Craig Fleming.\n\nThe Skinners' School performs consistently above average and was awarded a \"1 or outstanding\", from Ofsted inspectors, on 6 June 2007.\n\n\n\nThe current headmaster is Edward Wesson.\n\nPast headmasters have included:\n\nThe Reverend Frederick Knott<br>\nThe Rev. F.G. Knott was selected by the school Governors from over 80 candidates who applied to be headmaster of the new Skinners Company's Middle School for Boys. After graduating from Magdalene College, Cambridge he taught at Dulwich College for a number of years, before taking up his first role as Skinners' School headmaster aged 27. The following report on a speech he made at Skinners Day in 1900 provides a strong indication of the ethos he imbued the school with during its formative years.\n\n\"\"It was impressed upon them [the boys] the necessity of some relief from work and toil, and sports undoubtedly acted as such. It strengthened them, gave them a better constitution, and gave more power for work and better results. The School is not to be regarded as a place where many lessons were stuffed into their brains. It was a place where character was formed, where they learned to associate with friends and where they learned to be in sympathy with their thoughts and ideas. It was a preparation for a greater life\".\"\n\n\nIn the summer term of Year 12, school prefects are selected. Leadership roles amongst the prefects now include the head boy, two deputy head boys, the chairman of the school council, the parents' association and Old Skinners' Society liaison prefect, two senior prefects and five house captains. Other school prefects are divided between the roles of duty prefect and form prefect.\n\nThere are usually approximately sixteen form prefects, who take responsibility for a year eight or year seven form, two to a form.\n\nBoards in School Hall denote previous positions of importance including Head Boys and CCF Commanding Officers. Until recently boys who earnt a place at an Oxford or Cambridge college would have their name added to the University honours board although that practice has now been ceased due to the volume of boys gaining Oxbridge places each year.\n\nThe Skinners' School, like many schools started by London livery companies, has a school song. The lyrics are by Percy Shaw Jeffrey and appeared in the school magazine December 1894, and are as follows:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe song contains two lines in Latin: \"Floreat Sodalitas\" and \" 'dalitas Pardorum\". \"Floreat\" can be translated as \"let [it] flourish\" and \"Sodalitas\" as \"fellowship\" or \"companionship\"; \" 'dalitas\" is a contraction of \"Sodalitas\" (in the same way that \"fortune 'fend\" is a contraction of \"fortune defend\") and \"Pardorum\" is the genitive plural of \"Pardus\", meaning \"Leopard\" (the school emblem). \"Floreat Sodalitas\" therefore means \"Let fellowship flourish\" and \"'dalitas Pardorum\" is \"the fellowship of the leopards\".\n\n\"\" Bab-el-Mandeb's Straits\"\" is the name former pupils used to call the passageway to the old Headmaster's office (originally in Main Building). The apostrophe and the \"s\" may be anachronistic (a grocer's apostrophe) or they may refer to the nickname of the first headmaster (Mr Knott) being Bab-el-mandeb. The name is Arabic for the \"Gates of Grief\" and the Straits are vital international shipping waters to this day. The Headmaster's office is now used by the librarian.\n\nIt refers to the choice confronting a boy when told to 'report to the headmaster', which was a daunting prospect in the past. Having climbed the stairs, the alternative to turning right and entering the headmaster's room, would be to turn left and jump from the balcony down into the main hall.\n\nStudents are told that \"The Lew\", mentioned in the final verse, is a now submerged stream which ran alongside Somerset Road. It may also refer to a small suburb of the town next to which the school was built.\n\nThe original last line of the third verse was \"\"The Guild may stand forever\"\". A long-standing tradition at the school is to elongate the \"s\" sound in the word \"\"whiskered\"\" to create a hissing sound. Over time, enthusiastic boys, partially spurred on by the semi-disapproval of the staff, extended the tradition to all words within the second verse. While the students are never encouraged or told of this tradition, it is passed down through the years by the older boys to those starting at the school, during renditions of the song.\n\nIn recent years (starting in the late 1990s) it became customary (at least at Skinners' Day rehearsals) to loudly and deeply shout the word 'breathe' after the first line of each chorus, as a tribute to a much-loved retired music teacher, Mr Tony Starr, who shouted the word during rehearsals to remind the student body to breathe at that point.\n\nThe song has another version written by Shaw Jeffrey who adapted its lyrics for his new school when he became headmaster for the Colchester Royal Grammar School.\n\nFounded in 1890 by the Old Boys of the time, the Old Skinners' Society has four main aims:\n\n\nOn leaving the school the majority of leavers sign up to the society for life, making them eligible to attend the many social events the society organizes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2315254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315254", "title": "Format (Common Lisp)", "text": "Format (Common Lisp)\n\nFormat is a function in Common Lisp that can produce formatted text using a format string similar to the printf format string. It provides more functionality than codice_1, allowing the user to output numbers in English, apply certain format specifiers only under certain conditions, iterate over data structures, and output in a tabular format. This functionally originates in MIT's Lisp Machine Lisp, where it was based on Multics codice_2.\n\nAn example of a C codice_1 call is the following:\n\nUsing Common Lisp, this is equivalent to:\n\nAnother example would be to print every element of list delimited with commas, which can be done using the ~{, ~^ and ~} directives:\n\nNote that not only is the list of values iterated over directly by codice_4, but the commas correctly are printed \"between\" items, not \"after\" them. A yet more complex example would be printing out a list using customary English phrasing:\n(let ((template \"The lucky winners were:~#[ none~; ~S~; ~S and ~S~\n\nWhilst codice_4 is somewhat infamous for its tendency to become opaque and hard to read, it provides a remarkably concise yet powerful syntax for a specialised and common need.\n\nA Common Lisp FORMAT summary table is available.\n\n"}
{"id": "2315268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315268", "title": "Vortex (sailboat)", "text": "Vortex (sailboat)\n\nThe Laser Vortex is a high performance sailing dinghy designed by Jo Richards and awarded the \"Sailboat of the Year\" title on its introduction in 2000. It is a tunnel hulled single hander that has a trapeze and an optional Asymmetric spinnaker. It is manufactured by White Formula UK Ltd under licence from a consortium headed up by Jonathan Carter. Jo Richard remains the owner of the design. Laser Performance are no longer involved with the Vortex. In 2013 the decision was made to drop 'Laser' from the name, the boat is now known only as the Vortex.\n\nThe development of the Asymmetric 'kit' by Association Chairman and keen Vortex enthusiast Keith Escritt has brought new life to the class, with over 100 boats now flying the asymmetric option.\n\nIn handicap racing the Vortex sails off a Portsmouth Yardstick of 940 in the UK and 86.8 in the USA\n\n"}
{"id": "2315301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315301", "title": "Harmony River", "text": "Harmony River\n\nHarmony River may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2315325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315325", "title": "Jewish Cemetery, Warsaw", "text": "Jewish Cemetery, Warsaw\n\nThe Warsaw Jewish Cemetery is one of the largest Jewish cemeteries in Europe and in the world. Located on Warsaw's Okopowa Street and abutting the Christian Powązki Cemetery, the Jewish necropolis was established in 1806 and occupies 33 hectares (83 acres) of land. The cemetery contains over 250,000 marked graves, as well as mass graves of victims of the Warsaw Ghetto. Although the cemetery was closed down during World War II, after the war it was reopened and a small portion of it remains active, serving Warsaw's existing Jewish population.\n\nAs the necropolis was established to replace many smaller cemeteries closer to the city centre, it was designed to serve all Jewish communities of Warsaw, regardless of their affiliation. Hence, it is subdivided into several districts dubbed quarters (\"kwatery\"), historically reserved for various groups. Among them are three Orthodox (for men, women and one for holy scriptures), Reform Judaism, children, military and Warsaw Ghetto Uprising victims.\n\nThe cemetery, which has become a dense forest in the post-war period, is filled with monuments dedicated to notable personas such as politicians, spiritual leaders, inventors, economists and others. Many of the markers are simple, others are elaborately carved and richly decorated. Large mausoleums appear in styles ranging from Egyptian revival to Art Deco.\n\nIn 1806 Warsaw's Jewish Commune petitioned the government to establish a new cemetery for Jewish inhabitants of Warsaw. The Bródno Jewish Cemetery, in existence since 1769, was nearly at capacity and the chevra kadisha sought a new burial ground. The lot chosen was located right outside of the city limits in the borough of Wola, next to a new Catholic Powązki Cemetery established in 1790. The petition was accepted and in the following year the cemetery was established. The earliest headstone was dated December 6, 1806 and belonged to certain Nachum son of Nachum of Siemiatycze, but it did not survive to our times. The first woman interred there was certain Elka Junghoff, daughter of Jehuda Leib Mulrat of Kalisz. Her tombstone is dated November 26, 1804, but the date is most likely wrong. Hence the oldest surviving headstone belongs to Sara, daughter of Eliezer (died September 8, 1807).\n\nUnlike other cemeteries in Europe, all the graves in the Okopowa Street cemetery have their backs to the cemetery gate. The tradition of placing graves facing the cemetery gate stems from the belief that at the future resurrection of the dead, the dead will rise up and be able to leave the cemetery without having to turn around. However, in 1819, when one community member was accidentally buried with his head, rather than his feet, facing the cemetery gate, Rabbi Szlomo Zalman Lipszyc, the first Chief Rabbi of Warsaw, ruled that all future burials should be done the same way, to avoid causing embarrassment to the first one buried in this manner.\n\nDuring the first decades of its existence the new Okopowa Street cemetery was used mostly by the higher strata of Jewish society, with poorer Jews interred in the Bródno Jewish Cemetery in the easternmost borough of Bródno, on the right bank of the Vistula. Despite that the cemetery quickly became overcrowded and already in 1824 it had to be expanded. Around that time the Tsarist authorities took over the administration of the cemetery from the chevra kadisha and by 1850 established a separate funeral administration. The first on-site funeral home was established in 1828, but already in 1831 it was destroyed by Russian Army in the course of the November Uprising. A new building was erected the following year and further expanded in 1854. In the meantime the necropolis was extended twice: in 1840 and 1848. Around that time it became the main Jewish cemetery of Warsaw, for rich and poor alike.\n\nHistorically the cemetery was separated from the city centre and the quarter inhabited by Jews by a deep ditch, the so-called Lubomirski Ramparts, created in 1777 to stop the spread of plague and as a tax measure. It was not until 1873 that both Jewish and Catholic communities were allowed to build a bridge across the ditch to facilitate access to both cemeteries. In 1860 and 1863 the cemetery was extended again and in 1869 reached its present form. However, it began to overcrowd and in 1885 all burials financed by the Jewish community (i.e. of the poor) were directed to the Bródno Jewish Cemetery. In 1877 several notable Jewish families of Warsaw financed a new late Neo-Classical building by Adolf Schimmelpfennig housing a synagogue and two burial houses (one for men and one for women). The second floor was reserved for rabbi's flat.\n\nAs the cemetery was used by all groups of Warsaw's Jewry, conflicts arose over control of the cemetery and various burial-related issues. In 1913 it was agreed to split it onto four parts: one for Orthodox Jews, one for Reform Jews, one for children, and one for military and state burials. After World War I the cemetery again became overcrowded. Subsequently, a mound or earthwork terrace was erected over the quarter previously reserved for children to allow for more burials. Between 1918 and 1936 fourteen such mounds were created. In the 1930s the entire cemetery was surrounded with a high wall, and in 1939 construction started on a Mausoleum of Jews Fighting for Polish Independence. Works were stopped by the outbreak of World War II and the German occupation of Poland.\n\nDuring World War II the cemetery was partly demolished. German forces used it for mass executions and the burial of victims of Warsaw Ghetto, the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising, the Warsaw Uprising of 1944, and other mass murders. Those burials included both Jews and non-Jews. Following the Ghetto Uprising, on May 15, 1943 the Germans detonated all buildings in the area of the cemetery, including the synagogue and burial houses. Only a small well survives to this day. Further damage was done to the cemetery during the Warsaw Uprising of 1944, when the front line passed directly through the cemetery. After the war the cemetery was reopened. The Communist authorities of Poland planned a road directly through the middle of the cemetery, but the plans were never carried out.\n\nIn the 1990s the neglected cemetery started to be renovated for the first time since the 1930s, mostly by the re-created Warsaw Jewish Commune and the Nissenbaum Family Foundation, as well as the City of Warsaw municipal government. The cemetery is still open, with 20 to 30 new burials every year.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2315332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315332", "title": "Quinn", "text": "Quinn\n\nQuinn is an Anglicised form of the Irish \"Ó Coinn or McQuinn/MacQuinn\". The latter surname means \"descendant of \"Conn\"\". The surname \"Quinn\" is also rendered \"Ó Cuinn\" in Irish. The surname is borne by numerous unrelated Irish families in Ulster and the Irish counties of Clare, Longford, and Mayo. The most notable family of the name are that of Thomond, a Dalcassian sept, who derive their surname from Niall Ó Cuinn who was slain at the Battle of Clontarf in 1014. This family was formerly represented by the Earls of Dunraven. Another family is that seated in Annaly, who were related to the O'Farrell lords of Longford. Other families include one seated in Antrim; one seated in Raphoe; and one called Clann Cuain, seated near Castlebar. In the seventeenth century, the surname \"Quinn\" was common in Waterford. In 1890, the surname was numerous in Dublin, Tyrone, Antrim, and Roscommon. \"Quinn\" is one of the twenty most common surnames in Ireland. It is sometimes said that the surname \"Quinn\" is borne by Catholics whilst \"Quin\" is borne by Protestants.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2315375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315375", "title": "Skaugum", "text": "Skaugum\n\nSkaugum is an estate, manor house and the official residence of Crown Prince Haakon of Norway and his wife Crown Princess Mette-Marit. The estate is located in Asker municipality, southwest of Oslo, by the foot of the mountain Skaugumsåsen. The estate consists of of agricultural lands and of woodlands. \n\nThe estate was originally Church property during the Middle Ages, and passed through several owners until 1909, when Fritz Wedel Jarlsberg bought it. When Crown Prince Olav and Crown Princess Märtha were married in 1929, Wedel-Jarlsberg sold it to the couple. In 1937, Prince Harald was born on the estate. \n\nWedel-Jarlsberg's Swiss chalet style-residence, designed by Herman Backer and completed in 1891, burned to the ground in 1930. The Norwegian architect Arnstein Arneberg was commissioned to design a new structure, entirely on the foundations of the old building. The new building was also built of stone to avoid future fires. \n\nDuring the Nazi occupation of Norway, SS-General Wilhelm Rediess resided at Skaugum for a short period while Reichskommissar Josef Terboven later would make the estate his official residence in June 1940. Shortly after Hitler's death, Terboven was dismissed from his position by Karl Dönitz and committed suicide in the manor bunker on 8 May 1945 by blowing himself up with fifty kilograms of dynamite.\n\nIn 1968, King Olav V gave the estate as a wedding gift to his son Crown Prince Harald (later King Harald V) and his wife Crown Princess Sonja, while the King himself relocated to the Royal Palace in Oslo. King Harald would repeat this gesture, giving the estate as a wedding gift to his son, Crown Prince Haakon, and his wife, Crown Princess Mette-Marit when the couple married in 2001. \n\nUnlike the Royal Palace and Oscarshall, Skaugum is owned privately by the royal family and is therefore not open to the public. Like all royal residences in Norway, the estate is protected by the Royal Guards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2315377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315377", "title": "WCSP-FM", "text": "WCSP-FM\n\nWCSP-FM, also known as C-SPAN Radio, is a radio station owned by the Cable-Satellite Public Affairs Network (C-SPAN) in Washington, D.C. The station is licensed to C-SPAN's corporate owner, the National Cable Satellite Corporation, and broadcasts on 90.1 MHz 24 hours a day. Its studios are located near Capitol Hill in C-SPAN’s headquarters. In addition to WCSP-FM, C-SPAN Radio programming is also available online at c-span.org and via satellite radio on SiriusXM channel 455.\n\nWCSP-FM broadcasts in the HD (digital) format.\n\nThe station was originally licensed to Georgetown University under the callsign WGTB, and was programmed by Georgetown students with a progressive rock format. In 1979, the Georgetown administration decided that the station did not fit with the public image they desired for the university, and sold the station to the University of the District of Columbia for US$1. UDC took ownership officially on March 12, 1980, and WGTB became WDCU, with a jazz format. During a budgetary crisis in mid-1997, the school sold WDCU for $13 million to C-SPAN, a non-profit funded by the cable television industry. UDC had planned to sell the station to Christian radio conglomerate Salem Communications; however this deal was unsuccessful, leading to C-SPAN’s accepted purchase of WDCU. Once the station was purchased, broadcasting of C-SPAN Radio on WCSP-FM began on October 9, 1997.\n\nC-SPAN Radio expanded its coverage by signing programming agreements in 1998 with two subscription-only satellite radio systems: CD Radio (later renamed Sirius Satellite Radio) and General Motors' XM Satellite Radio, bringing the station to a nationwide audience in 2001. Temporarily for a year during the XM and Sirius merger in 2007 and 2008, it was not heard on Sirius, and it is not currently available on radios only compatible with the older Sirius system. The station was added to XM Radio Canada on April 1, 2007. The FM range of the radio station extends as far north as Hanover, Pennsylvania, south around 15 miles beyond Fredericksburg, Virginia, west to 5 miles east of Front Royal, Virginia and east to Cambridge, Maryland. C-SPAN offers three channels of programming for listeners within the FM signal radius with HD radios, using digital technology to multicast all three channels at 90.1 FM. The three channels offer different programming: WCSP-FM's usual programming is broadcast on 90.1 HD-1; 90.1 HD-2 simulcasts C-SPAN, broadcasting coverage of the House of Representatives plus other C-SPAN programming; 90.1 HD-3 simulcasts C-SPAN2, broadcasting coverage of the Senate and audio of Book TV.\n\n, C-SPAN Radio can be accessed via any phone at (202) 626-8888. C-SPAN's mobile app on iOS and Google Play allows access to all three of WCSP's HD streams (including C-SPAN and C-SPAN2 audio), in addition to C-SPAN3.\n\nC-SPAN Radio broadcasts public-affairs programming, including some audio simulcasts of C-SPAN's flagship television programs like \"Washington Journal\" and some radio-only programming such as the famous tape-recorded Oval Office conversations from the Johnson and Nixon administrations, oral histories, and some committee meetings and press conferences not shown on television due to programming commitments. The radio station does not try to duplicate C-SPAN television coverage, and takes a more selective approach to its broadcast content. Regular programs broadcast on the radio station include \"Today in Washington\" and \"Prime Minister's Question Time\". The station also broadcasts full gavel-to-gavel coverage of political conventions in election years.\n\nIn the early period of C-SPAN Radio's existence, programming also included coverage of local events and government hearings affecting only the Washington region. A unique part of WCSP's programming is its rebroadcast of five Sunday morning talk shows, without commercials, in rapid succession. All programs on C-SPAN Radio are broadcast commercial-free.\n\nWCSP-FM is the first radio station to broadcast audiotape of historical U.S. Supreme Court oral arguments, with announcers explaining the court decision at the end of the recording. The broadcasts of the Supreme Court arguments have provided listeners in the U.S. and Canada with the opportunity to hear spoken words during oral arguments for several of the Court's most influential cases, including the \"Texas v. Johnson\" argument over flag-burning in 1989, and the \"Miranda v. Arizona\" argument in 1966. In September 2010 the Supreme Court began releasing audio recordings of the week's oral arguments each Friday, thereby allowing C-SPAN Radio to broadcast a selection of current arguments. Prior to this arrangement, recordings of oral arguments were occasionally made available on a same-day basis, which C-SPAN would request in cases of high public interest.\n\n"}
{"id": "2315402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315402", "title": "Andy Gurley", "text": "Andy Gurley\n\nAndy Gurley (born Michael Andrew Gurley) is an American rock guitarist. He is a member of the country band Blue County. Andy Gurley is a session and touring player based in Nashville, Tennessee. He is the nephew of James Gurley.\n\nGurley has produced many artists, including Danielle Bollinger.\n\nHis grandmother taught him how to play guitar when he was a young boy. He went to the Guitar Institute of Technology.\n\n"}
{"id": "2315406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315406", "title": "Sarugaku", "text": "Sarugaku\n\n, was a form of theatre popular in Japan during the 11th to 14th centuries. It originated from \"sangaku,\" a form of entertainment reminiscent of the modern-day circus, consisting mostly of acrobatics, juggling, and pantomime, sometimes combined with drum dancing. It came from China to Japan in the 8th century and there mingled with indigenous traditions, particularly the harvest celebrations of dengaku. In the 11th century, the form began to favor comic sketches while other elements faded away. By the late 12th century, the term \"sarugaku\" had come to include comic dialogues based on word play (toben), improvised comic party dances (\"ranbu\"), short plays involving several actors, and musical arrangements based on courtesan traditions. During the 13th century, there was increased standardization of words, gestures, musical arrangements, and program combinations; as well as the adoption of the guild (\"za\") system to which all present-day Noh schools can be traced. \"Kyōgen\" also developed from sarugaku. \nOf particular significance is the development of sarugaku troupes in Yamato around Nara and Kyoto during the Kamakura and early Muromachi periods. In particular, the sarugaku Noh troupe Yuzaki, led by Kan'ami, performed in 1374 before the young \"shōgun\" Ashikaga Yoshimitsu. The success of this one performance and the resultant shogunal patronage lifted the artform permanently out of the mists of its plebeian past. From then, the term sarugaku gave way to the current nomenclature, Noh.\n\nThe Japanese term \"Sarugaku\" is also used in other contexts to refer to a job or profession that seems to debase the employee or to treat him or her as a source of entertainment rather than as a professional.\n\nAccording to William Scott Wilson, Saragaku translates to \"monkey music\", is an ancient form of drama, and is the predecessor to Noh. Takuan Sōhō states as fact that \"the emperor's recitation is given like Sarugaku\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2315416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315416", "title": "WXTR", "text": "WXTR\n\nWXTR may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2315417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315417", "title": "Stephen Young", "text": "Stephen Young\n\nStephen Young may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2315436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315436", "title": "Bickford's (restaurant)", "text": "Bickford's (restaurant)\n\nBickford's Restaurants and Cafeterias is a chain of cafeteria-style restaurants founded in 1921. From the 1920s through the 1970s the chain was a mainstay in the New York City area. From the 1970s through the 2000s the chain was primarily located in the New England area. As of 2018, only three locations remained, all in Massachusetts: Bickford's Grille in Burlington and Woburn, and Bickford's Family Restaurant in Acton.\n\nBickford's and Foster's Cafeterias influenced Jack Kerouac, Allen Ginsberg, Peter Orlovsky, Woody Allen, Andy Warhol, William Styron, and Herbert Huncke.\n\nSamuel Longley Bickford (1885–1959) began his restaurant career in 1902. In the 1910's, he was a vice president at the Waldorf System lunchroom chain in New England and, in 1921, he established his own quick-lunch Bickford's restaurants in New York. Bickford's lunchrooms offered modestly priced fare and extended hours. Bickford's architect was F. Russell Stuckert, who had been associated with Samuel Bickford since 1917. Stuckert's father, J. Franklin Stuckert, had designed buildings for Horn & Hardart in the 1890s.\n\nDuring the 1920s, the Bickford's chain expanded rapidly with 24 lunchrooms in the New York area and others around Boston. It also acquired Travelers' Lunch, which had been established by Bickford's brother Harold, the White Lunch System on the West Coast, and the Hayes Lunch System in Boston, which was renamed Hayes-Bickford.\n\nA letter with a company stock offering stated, \"The lunchrooms operated are of the self-service type and serve a limited bill of fare, which makes possible the maximum use of equipment and a rapid turnover. Emphasis is placed on serving meals of high quality at moderate cost.\" A 1964 New York City guidebook noted:\n\nWith Bickford's restaurants opening in New Jersey and Massachusetts, Sam Bickford and his son, Harold, worked over four decades to expand their cafeteria chain throughout the Northeast. As their expansion continued with drive-in restaurants and associated locations in Florida, Pennsylvania and California, they ultimately opened 85 branches.\n\nIn the 1930s, union conflicts resulted in vandalism:\n\nBickford's son, Harold, was in charge of expanding their cafeteria chain into Florida and California. In 1959, Bickford's, Inc. had two geographical divisions: the North-East Coast Division and the South East Coast (M&M Cafeterias, Inc) and West Coast (Foster's Lunch System, Ltd.) Division.\nBickford's and its Southeast subsidiary M&M Cafeterias and West Coast subsidiary Foster's Cafeterias had trouble staying in business because of rising labor costs, competition from the non-union labor at fast food restaurants, and rising crime, which kept people home after dark. In 1960, there were 48 Bickford's in New York, down to 42 in 1970 and only two in 1980. By 1982, the last two were closed as well.\n\nIn October 1959, in Peabody, Massachusetts, Harold Bickford introduced a new concept, the Bickford's Pancake House, a specialty family restaurant with an emphasis on the breakfast menu. Over the next three decades, the Bickford's Pancake House chain grew to 30 restaurants throughout New England. By the mid-1990s, there were almost 70 Bickford's restaurants in New Hampshire, Vermont, Rhode Island, Connecticut and Massachusetts.\n\nBickford's corporate headquarters were eventually located in Brighton, Boston, Massachusetts. Financial forecaster Jeffrey S. Bickford, the grandson of the founder, maintains a website devoted to Bickford's nostalgia\n\nAs of 2016, four locations remained, all in Massachusetts: Bickford's Grille, in Brockton, Burlington, and Woburn, and Bickford's Family Restaurant, in Acton. On December 30, 2018, the Brockton Bickford's Grille closed its doors after Tommy Doyle's Pub & Grill bought the restaurant building to expand their business. That leaves Bickford's with only three locations remaining: Bickford's Grille in Burlington and Woburn, Massachusetts, and Bickford's Family Restaurant in Acton, Massachusetts.\n\nFoster's Cafeterias were operated under Bickford's Foster's Lunch System, Ltd. subdivision, headquartered in San Francisco, California. By 1959, there were 28 Foster's Cafeterias & Bakeries in San Francisco and other locations in the San Francisco Bay Area, including Oakland, Berkeley and San Mateo. The Foster's Lunch System, Ltd. also operated the Moar's Cafeterias, in Hillsdale Shopping Center at 70 Hillsdale Plaza in San Mateo and 33 Powell Street, just north of the cable car turntable with a large mosaic by Benny Bufano on one wall.\n\nFoster's cafeterias were known for Foster's English Muffins, sourdough English muffins that were sold packaged at the cafeterias to take home. These muffins were often mentioned by Herb Caen in his column. They were also sold in supermarkets and groceries.\n\nJack Kerouac sometimes wrote while sitting in Bickford's, and he mentioned the restaurant in \"Lonesome Traveler\". Other members of the Beat Generation could be found at night in the New York Bickford's:\n\nAllen Ginsberg when he was living in San Francisco liked to go to the large Foster's cafeteria on the north side of Sutter between Powell and Stockton. He wrote the first section of \"Howl\" there in 1954. He took vows there about January 1955 with Peter Orlovsky to be his homosexual lover, their promise being \"that neither of us would go into heaven unless we could get the other one in\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2315437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315437", "title": "WLZL", "text": "WLZL\n\nWLZL (107.9 FM, \"El Zol 107.9 FM\") is a commercial FM radio station licensed to serve College Park, Maryland. The station is owned by Entercom through licensee Entercom License, LLC and broadcasts a Spanish tropical format. Studios are located in Washington, D.C. while the station's broadcast tower is located east of Crofton, Maryland at ().\n\nWLZL broadcasts using HD Radio.\n\nThe station signed on for the first time in 1960 with the WFSI call sign. WFSI was owned by Family Radio and aired a Christian radio format.\n\nOn November 16, 2011, CBS Radio announced plans to acquire WFSI from Family Radio, with the intention of moving WLZL's Spanish Tropical format and \"El Zol\" branding from 99.1 to 107.9, with a new all-news format to be launched on 99.1. The format change occurred on December 1, when both stations began simulcasting El Zol programming. WFSI also swapped call signs with WBGR, a Family Radio-owned AM station in Baltimore, the same day. The 99.1/107.9 simulcast ended on December 12, 2011, with the WLZL call sign moving from 99.1 to 107.9 and the new WNEW-FM call sign debuting on 99.1.\n\nOn February 19, 2013, the FCC granted CBS Radio a construction permit for WLZL to lower its ERP from 50,000 watts to 49,000 watts and to lower its HAAT from to . These changes brought WLZL into compliance with current FCC rules regarding maximum ERP and HAAT for a Class B station. WLZL had been operating using facilities that exceeded these parameters as a \"grandfathered\" facility. On May 7, 2014, the FCC granted a request by CBS Radio to change the community of license for the station from Annapolis, Maryland to College Park, Maryland, as a modification of the construction permit. The reason given was to provide College Park with its first local transmission service.\n\nOn February 2, 2017, CBS Radio announced it would merge with Entercom. The merger was approved on November 9, 2017, and was consummated on the 17th.\n\n"}
{"id": "2315468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315468", "title": "WLVW", "text": "WLVW\n\nWLVW (107.3 FM) – branded \"K-Love\" – is a non-commercial contemporary Christian radio station licensed to serve Washington, D.C. Owned and operated by the Educational Media Foundation, WLVW does not broadcast any local programming, functioning as the Washington metropolitan area network affiliate for K-Love. The station's transmitter resides in the district's northwest quadrant. In addition to a standard analog transmission, WLVW is available online; the station also formerly broadcast in the HD Radio format.\n\nOn May 15, 1948, the station signed on as WMAL-FM, owned by \"The Washington Evening Star\". WMAL-FM mostly simulcast co-owned WMAL (630 AM), the market's ABC Radio Network affiliate; as network programming moved from radio to television in the 1950s, WMAL and WMAL-FM switched to a full service middle of the road format.\n\nIn the late 1960s, WMAL-FM switched to a combination of easy listening and classical music, mostly automated with the exception of \"Harden and Weaver\", which aired on both WMAL and WMAL-FM Monday through Saturday mornings. In the 1970s, WMAL-FM flipped to album-oriented rock as \"The Soft Explosion.\" Live disc jockeys were added and automation was cut back to nights and weekends.\n\nIn 1977, ABC acquired WMAL-AM-FM for $16 million, then a record price.\n\nWMAL-FM changed its call sign to WRQX on December 7, 1977. On April 15, 1979, WRQX changed to top 40; branded \"Q107\", the station eliminated automation completely. At noon on August 31, 1990, the station changed to Hot AC, branded \"Mix 107.3.\" The first song on \"Mix\" was \"Let The Music Play\" by Shannon.\nWRQX was one of the many Disney/ABC Radio stations that merged with Citadel Broadcasting in 2007. Citadel, in turn, merged with Cumulus Media on September 16, 2011. Previous slogans have been \"Not too hard, Not too light\", \"The Best Mix of the 80s, 90s & Today\", \"The Best Mix of...Everything\", \"Washington's Best Music Mix\", \"Today's Best Hits\", \"All the Hits\", \"More Music, More Variety\", and \"DC's Best Music Mix.\"\n\nOn April 27, 2013, long-time morning show host Jack Diamond was unexpectedly released from the station when his contract expired and management declined to renew it. Diamond had been at the station since the day the it flipped to \"Mix\" in 1990. There was speculation that the station would take the morning show in a new direction to compete against top 40-formatted WIHT. Bert Weiss, the host of \"The Bert Show\" on co-owned WWWQ in Atlanta (and formerly Diamond's co-host), took over morning drive time on WRQX, beginning May 16. \"The Bert Show\" was syndicated from Atlanta.\n\nOn August 19, 2013, WRQX began to slowly phase out its \"Mix\" moniker, and began emphasizing the slogan \"All The Hits,\" as well as shifting its playlist towards more current music, while dropping all 1980s and most 1990s material. Rival company Clear Channel Communications picked up word on this potential shift, and began registering domain names such as \"allthehits1073.com\" and \"q1073dc.com\" to prevent Cumulus from using them. Those domains redirected to WIHT's website. On August 28, WRQX completed its shift back to top 40, then branded as \"All The Hits 107.3.\" The station debuted a new logo and transferred its website address to 1073Hits.com.\n\nOn May 2, 2014, WRQX dropped \"The Bert Show\" after one year, due to low ratings. Marco, who had previously been the station's afternoon drive personality, took over morning drive on an interim basis three days later. On July 30, 2014, the \"Sarah, Ty and Mel Show\" debuted on 107.3. It was heard weekdays from 6–10 a.m., and was hosted by Sarah Fraser (formerly of \"The Kane Show\"), Ty Bentli (now hosting the syndicated Nash-FM country music morning show) and Melanie Glazener (who also worked with Fraser on \"The Kane Show\"). Also in July 2014, WRQX was re-branded as \"DC's 107.3\" and its website address was changed to dcs1073.com.\n\nDuring September and October 2015, WRQX began shifting back towards hot AC. On November 9, 2015, Louie Diaz was announced as WRQX's new program director, replacing Jan Jeffries. On that same day, the station's air staff was dismissed, leading to rumors of a format change, possibly back to hot AC, once again as \"Mix 107.3.\" Rival WIHT was ranked number 4 in the market with a 5.9 share, while WRQX was ranked #18 with a 2.1 share of the market according to the October 2015 Nielsen ratings report.\nOn November 11, 2015, Cumulus announced that WRQX would revert to its \"Mix 107.3\" branding on November 13. In addition, the station began playing Christmas music beginning at 3 p.m. on November 13. Cumulus initially said the Christmas format would be heard through the holiday season; however, it turned out to be a stunt, only lasting for that weekend. At 6 a.m. on November 16, the station officially relaunched as \"Mix\" with the return of morning host Jack Diamond. The move proved popular and WRQX's ratings began to improve.\n\nOn February 13, 2019, Rocklin, California-based nonprofit broadcaster, Educational Media Foundation (EMF) entered into an agreement with Cumulus to purchase WRQX, along with five other Cumulus Media stations in New York City, Atlanta, San Jose, Savannah and Syracuse, for $103.5 million. This transaction would allow Cumulus to generate \"substantial cash for debt repayment and investment in other business opportunities\", according to its President and CEO Mary Berner. EMF also owns existing K-Love affiliate WLZV in Buckland, Virginia, about southwest of Washington. After the sale received final approval by the FCC, EMF announced that WRQX and the other Cumulus stations acquired would all begin broadcasting its primary programming service, K-Love, on June 1 at Midnight local time.\n\nOn May 28, Jack Diamond announced the station's format change, set for May 31 at 7:00 p.m.—five hours earlier than originally planned—and that he would host the final hour of commercial programming on \"Mix 107.3\"; he also said he would return to the air at another station, but his new gig was never revealed. At the aforementioned time, after playing \"Cherish\" by The Association and a final goodbye from Jack Diamond, the station changed to contemporary Christian music as part of EMF's K-Love network.\n\nPrior to EMF's takeover of the station, Cumulus transferred the WRQX callsign onto the former WSOM (600 AM) in Salem, Ohio, in a callsign \"parking\" move; Cumulus retained rights to the WRQX callsign in the transaction. For part of May 31, 2019, the callsign WSOM was used on 107.3; after switching to K-Love, the station began identifying as WLVW, taking a callsign which had been in use on a K-Love station in Salisbury, Maryland.\n\n"}
{"id": "2315474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315474", "title": "Hate-Monger", "text": "Hate-Monger\n\nThe Hate-Monger is the name of several different fictional characters appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.\n\nThe original character first appeared in \"Fantastic Four\" #21 (December, 1963) and was created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby.\n\nThe Hate-Monger first appeared in the small fictional nation of San Gusto in South America, and came to the attention of authorities when he took over with the use of storm troopers, hoping to upset the balance of power in South America. The Fantastic Four saw a hate rally in New York City and the Thing tried to wreck it, but the Fantastic Four were caught off guard by the Hate-Monger's weapon — the Hate-Ray — which instilled hate for others, causing them to fight each other. As a result, the team disbanded and went their separate ways. Nick Fury, at the time a CIA agent, then managed to trick Mister Fantastic into traveling to San Gusto with him to fight the Hate-Monger, knowing the other members would follow. The Hate-Monger saw the plane leaving and used a device that traveled underground by the use of flames that carved out tunnels to quickly get to South America. Fury and Reed fought off some of the rebels, and infiltrated the Hate-Monger's headquarters after Reed found a device sending out beams and found the source of the disturbance. However, Reed was paralyzed with nerve gas and captured by the Hate-Monger, who revealed he had been bouncing his ray off the Moon, which had been causing abnormal effects on the tides. Fury managed to cure Mister Fantastic after getting the cure for the ray and gas from the Hate-Monger at gunpoint, though the Hate-Monger stopped them from capturing him by lowering bulletproof glass. Mister Fantastic then gave the antidote to the other members, and together they got to the base to help Nick Fury. In the final confrontation, the Hate-Monger was shot and killed by some of his own stormtroopers when an H-Ray beam struck some soldiers by mistake due to the Invisible Girl. When Mr. Fantastic removed the Hate-Monger's mask, it was revealed that Hate-Monger was Adolf Hitler who apparently survived World War II, though it is claimed it may be one of his doubles.\n\nIt was discovered later that the scientist Arnim Zola had perfected a means of transferring the mind to the body of a clone, thereby allowing Hitler to live on in the event of the death of his body. The Hate-Monger suffered a succession of defeats by Nick Fury, who wrecked the Hate-Monger's attempt to blackmail the nations of Earth with the \"Hate-Ray\" from an orbiting space station. The Hate-Monger was killed again. The Hate-Monger returned and planned to use a spacecraft to recapture his space station from S.H.I.E.L.D. He fought the Man-Wolf, but his base was invaded by S.H.I.E.L.D. and he was killed again.\n\nHis consciousness then resided within a cloned brain mounted on an android. Zola and the Red Skull unsuccessfully attempted to transplant the brain into the body of his old enemy, Captain America. He later battled Captain America again. The Hate-Monger eventually allied himself with his old pupil the Red Skull, and the two villains began plotting against each other when they gained possession of the Cosmic Cube, which could only be wielded by one person. The Hate-Monger decided to use his mind-transference powers to gain control of the Cube itself, rather than another clone. It was only after he had transferred his mind into the Cube that he realized that the Cube was not complete and nothing more than an empty shell. With the Hate-Monger's mind trapped within the featureless void of the incomplete Cube's matrix, he eventually went mad until fading into nothingness.\n\nYears later, the Hate-Monger was brought back to physical reality by the Red Skull. The Hate-Monger now existed as a being of pure energy, and was able to project the H-Ray at will. Using his new abilities, the Hate-Monger caused strikes and revolts in New York City under the guise of union representative Adam Hauser. The Hate-Monger then stole a mind-amplification device from S.H.I.E.L.D., which allowed him to incite violence and destruction all over the United States. The Hate-Monger then captured his old foes Captain America, Nick Fury, and the Sub-Mariner, and boasted that they were powerless to stop him. While Fury and Namor succumbed to the H-Ray, Captain America refused to surrender to his hatred. This failure infuriated the Hate-Monger to such a degree that the mind-amplifier exploded, apparently destroying him for once and for all.\n\nA new Hate-Monger appeared wearing a version of Captain America's uniform, and is seen murdering illegal immigrants, saying \"America belongs to Americans\". This Hate-Monger and his organization, a new iteration of the National Force, were all wiped out by the Punisher, who wore his own version of the Captain America uniform for the occasion.\n\nYears later during the \"Heroic Age\" event, Steve Rogers discovered a clone of Hitler retaining absolutely no memory of his programming. This clone goes by the name of Edmund Heidler and is a painter. Steve Rogers talks to him trying to find any evidence of his original protocol, but he does not receive anything other than a few racist comments. Leaving his art sale, Steve Rogers returns to Sharon Carter who wants to flat-out kill him. She is stopped by Rogers who tells her that he has not done anything wrong. They agree to keep an eye on him. After Rogers leaves, Heidler begins to subconsciously paint swastikas in his apartment.\n\nA new Hate-Monger named Josh Glenn eventually emerges in the midst of the \"Fear Itself\" storyline. Originally an office worker who became frustrated by what he perceived as persecution at the hands of immigrants, Glenn took it upon himself to continue the Hate-Monger's legacy after learning about the villain through various conspiracy theory websites. Glenn's paranoid anti-immigrant attitudes culminated in an attempt to steal firearms from a local pawn shop, which resulted in his capture at the hands of the Black Panther. Following Glenn's release, the essence of the original Hate-Monger somehow returned from space and entered his body, granting him the abilities of his predecessor. The new Hate-Monger then set out to enact his revenge on Black Panther, recruiting a new nationalist vigilante known as the American Panther as part of his scheme, but T'Challa was eventually able to drive the spirit out of its current host.\n\nThe Hate-Monger later uses HYDRA's time travel technology to try to alter history by assassinating Barack Obama in 1965, but is prevented from doing so by both Nick Fury and Nick Fury Jr.\n\n\nThe Hate-Monger was an ordinary man with no superhuman powers, created as the result of cloning and genetic engineering. The Hate-Monger's brain has been \"energized\" by Arnim Zola's techniques, enabling him to project his consciousness into the brain of a body cloned from his own if his current body is dying. He used several such bodies, including one which possessed superhuman strength, but was mute.\n\nThe Hate-Monger wears chain-mail body armor under his hood, tunic, and boots. He has sometimes worn an armored battle-suit containing an exoskeleton that amplifies his strength to superhuman levels. Scientists and technicians in the Hate-Monger's employ, including Arnim Zola, have manufactured and supplied him with a number of other paraphernalia and contrivances. He is often armed with his handgun projecting the \"Hate-ray\" or \"H-ray\", high frequency microwave radiation that affects the centers of the human brain controlling emotions so as to stimulate and magnify the victims' feelings of dread, fear, and anger to unreasonable levels, including repressed or subconscious sentiments of this kind. The hate-ray can also transform feelings of love into equally strong or perhaps even stronger hatreds. He also had access to large-scale \"Hate-ray\" projectors, missiles armed with nuclear warheads, disease-carrying bacilli, and various advanced aircraft and spacecraft.\n\nAfter his resurrection by the Cosmic Cube, the Hate-Monger was now a being of pure energy that could take on any form he wished, and his H-Ray powers were now his own. He was able to regenerate from most wounds and could fire laser-like beams from his eyes.\n\nAs Hitler, the Hate-Monger was also a cunning strategist and a charismatic leader, and able to incite fanatical loyalty to him through his rhetoric and persuasive personality. He is a good hand-to-hand combatant, and has apparently received some training in physical combat. He also had some talent in painting.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2315476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315476", "title": "John W. Galbreath", "text": "John W. Galbreath\n\nJohn Wilmer Galbreath (August 10, 1897 – July 20, 1988) was an American building contractor, sportsman and philanthropist.\n\nBorn in Derby, Ohio, he grew up in Mt. Sterling, Ohio, where he graduated from high school. He then graduated from Ohio University in 1922 and was a member of the Beta chapter of Delta Tau Delta International Fraternity. The non-denominational Galbreath Memorial Chapel on the Ohio University College Green was donated by Galbreath in memory of his first wife, Helen Mauck who died in 1946.\n\nIn 1955, he married Dorothy Bryan Firestone, widow of Russell Allen Firestone of the Firestone Tire and Rubber Company.\n\nJohn Galbreath made a fortune in commercial property development, building skyscrapers in the United States and abroad. However, he may be best known for his role as owner of the Pittsburgh Pirates. He initially held a 20 percent stake in majority owner Frank E. McKinney's four-man syndicate when it purchased the Pirates on August 8, 1946. Galbreath's partners also included entertainer Bing Crosby and Pittsburgh attorney Thomas P. Johnson.\n\nNot quite four years later, when McKinney sold his 50 percent stake, Galbreath acquired majority control on July 18, 1950. He was the Pirates' principal owner through 1985, during which the Pirates won three world championships — in 1960, 1971, and 1979. Galbreath was the first owner to break the so-called \"Million Dollar Mark\" when he signed Dave Parker to a multi-year contract in 1979. During his tenure, the Pirates also drafted Hall of Fame player Roberto Clemente from the Brooklyn Dodgers in the 1954 Rule 5 draft.\n\nIn 1935 John W. Galbreath founded Darby Dan Farm near the Darby Creek in Galloway, Ohio. In 1949 he purchased the core property of Idle Hour Stock Farm in Kentucky and renamed it Darby Dan Farm.\n\nGalbreath met his second wife Dorothy through thoroughbred racing. She had been involved in the sport with her first husband and would be very active with Darby Dan breeding and racing. The Darby Dan Farm raced several champion horses. John Galbreath is one of only four men to have raced both a Kentucky Derby winner and an Epsom Derby winner. The others are Paul Mellon, Michael Tabor, and Prince Ahmed bin Salman.\n\nIn the early 1950s, he served as chairman of the Greater New York Association. During his time, he oversaw the construction of the new Aqueduct Racetrack and the extensive rebuilding of Belmont Park.\n\nJohn Galbreath was voted the 1972 Big Sport of Turfdom Award by the Turf Publicists of America and in 1974 he won the Eclipse Award for Outstanding Breeder.\n\nGalbreath died in Galloway, Ohio, three weeks prior to his 91st birthday. Galbreath's death occurred five and a half weeks prior to the passing of Art Rooney, who founded the Pittsburgh Steelers in 1933 and owned the franchise for 55 years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2315477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315477", "title": "WMAL-FM", "text": "WMAL-FM\n\nWMAL-FM (105.9 FM) – branded 105.9 FM WMAL – is an FM radio station licensed to Woodbridge, Virginia, serving the Washington, D.C. Metro area. WMAL-FM airs a talk radio format and is owned and operated by Cumulus Media. The station's studios are located at 4400 Jenifer Street NW in Washington, two blocks from the city's border with Maryland, and the transmitter site is in Falls Church, Virginia, off Lee Highway. WMAL-FM is co-owned with sports radio station WSBN at 630 kHz; the WMAL call sign and talk format originated on that station, and the two stations simulcast from 2011 to 2019.\n\nWeekday mornings on WMAL-FM start with \"Mornings on the Mall\" with Mary Walter and Vince Coglianese. At 9 a.m., Chris Plante hosts a nationally syndicated show, based at WMAL-FM. And Larry O'Connor hosts late afternoons. The rest of the day, syndicated shows air from Rush Limbaugh, Mark Levin and John Batchelor. The Ben Shapiro Show airs at 9 p.m. Red Eye Radio is heard overnight. Weekends feature shows on money, health, real estate and gardening, many of which are paid brokered programming. Most weekday hours feature local news at the beginning of each hour. Westwood One News airs at the beginning of most hours during nights and weekends.\n\nBefore the current station was founded, an earlier station, called WHIP, existed on 105.9 FM in the Washington area. The station was on the air between 1948 and 1950 and licensed to Silver Spring, Maryland; therefore it is unrelated to the current station, which is licensed to Woodbridge. The call sign WMAL-FM was also used in the Washington market on the 107.3 MHz facility, known today as WLVW, from 1948 through 1977.\n\nOn December 25, 1958, the station that would become today's WMAL-FM first signed on as WBVA. After several callsign changes, this station became known as WXRA, and during most of its early history it ran a mix of country and Southern gospel music daily from 6 a.m. until midnight. Beginning in September 1967 it simulcasted with WPIK, a co-owned station on 730 AM. Although WXRA was run from the same Alexandria studios as WPIK, WXRA's city of license has always been Woodbridge.\n\nOn December 31, 1967, WXRA began to run a full-time country format in response to listener requests. The station was assigned the call sign WVKX on September 9, 1980, followed by WPKX-FM on December 9, 1981. It kept the country format but began calling itself \"Kix 106\". On January 27, 1986, the station changed its call sign to WCXR-FM and instituted its first classic rock format, known as \"Classic Rock 105.9\". The classic rock format, which was just beginning to take hold in 1986, was considered experimental and debuted to high interest and ratings before eventually falling to more normal levels. The simulcast with 730 AM, now known as WCXR, was broken off around this time.\n\nIn 1989, WCXR's owners, the Metropolitan Broadcasting Corporation, sold ten stations including WCXR to Group W. Just four years later, in mid-1993, Group W sold WCXR to Viacom. This fueled rumors of a format change. Viacom elected to keep the format but fired the station's entire air staff, with company officially taking control on November 1, 1993.\n\nA new smooth jazz format, called \"Smooth Jazz 105.9,\" debuted on September 30, 1994. This was spurred on, at least in part, by the format changes of WLTT (now WIAD) to classic rock and of WJZE (now WBIG-FM) to oldies. The call letters became WJZW on October 17.\n\nIn February 1997, Viacom sold 10 stations, including WJZW, to Chancellor Broadcasting. To comply with FCC limits on the number of radio stations that can be owned by one company, Chancellor sold WJZW on April 14, 1997, to ABC Radio, which was part of the Walt Disney Company. Citadel Broadcasting bought ABC Radio from Disney in 2007.\n\nAt 3:00 pm on February 29, 2008, after a brief statement was read thanking the staff and listeners of \"Smooth Jazz 105.9\", Citadel Broadcasting changed the format of WJZW to oldies. All on-air employees were fired as a part of the format shift. The first song on the new format was \"R-E-S-P-E-C-T\" by Aretha Franklin. Initially, no local live on-air talent was utilized, with the station instead relying on a satellite delivered service, Scott Shannon's The True Oldies Channel. Imus in the Morning was added as the new morning show. However, the ratings for \"True Oldies\" were not satisfactory enough to justify continuing the format.\n\nOn August 26, 2009, at 10 a.m., WJZW changed its format back to classic rock, this time as \"105.9 The Edge\". The last song played on \"True Oldies\" was \"Windy\" by The Association, while the first song on \"The Edge\" was \"Livin' on the Edge\" by Aerosmith. The format shift made 105.9 as the DC market's only classic rock station, though WBIG-FM broadcast a lighter \"classic hits\" format. Just after midnight on September 17, 2009, the station changed its call letters to WVRX. On July 7, 2010, WVRX added a local morning drive program with Washington/Baltimore radio veterans Kirk McEwen and Mike O'Meara called \"Kirk and Mike\".\n\nCitadel merged with Cumulus Media on September 16, 2011. Days later, on September 19, 2011, at noon, the station flipped to a simulcast of co-owned talk station 630 WMAL. With a media market as concerned with news and politics as Washington, management believed the AM station's news/talk format would be strengthened by simulcasting on the powerful FM signal of 105.9. Additionally, simulcasting on FM filled in a significant gap in the AM station's nighttime coverage. AM 630 must power down to 2,700 watts at sundown. The last songs on \"105.9 The Edge\" were \"The Song Is Over\" by the Who and \"Hello, Goodbye\" by the Beatles. The station filed a request to change its call sign to WMAL-FM, which became official on September 26, 2011.\n\nOn June 13, 2019, it was announced that WMAL would switch to ESPN Radio on July 1, 2019, leaving the news/talk format exclusive to WMAL-FM.\n\nIn April 2020, WMAL-FM took the #1 spot in the ratings for the first time since Fall 1986 (dating back to WMAL' s time on 630 AM), beating competitors WAMU and WTOP-FM, while achieving a 10% audience share.\n\n"}
{"id": "2315479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315479", "title": "Petrov", "text": "Petrov\n\nPetrov (; masculine) or Petrova (; feminine) may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2315487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315487", "title": "WMMJ", "text": "WMMJ\n\nWMMJ is a Jammin' Oldies leaning Urban Adult Contemporary radio station owned by Radio One in the Washington, D.C., market. It is co-owned with WKYS, WOL, WPRS-FM, WTEM, and WYCB and has studios located in Silver Spring, Maryland. It is licensed to Bethesda, but its transmitter is located in Tenleytown. During the 1960s, '70s, and early '80s, the station had been home to the original \"progressive rock\" formatted WHFS, which later migrated to the higher powered Annapolis, Maryland-based 99.1 frequency.\n\nWMMJ simulcasts on WDCJ (92.7 FM, Prince Frederick, Maryland) for the southeastern counties of the Washington metro.\n\nWMMJ broadcasts in the HD format.\n\nThe WMMJ calls were originally used on current radio station WXRL in Lancaster, New York, from its sign-on in 1965 until 1970.\n\nIn 1987, Cathy Hughes purchased WMMJ and changed the format from easy listening to Urban Oldies as \"Majic 102\". The station has basically maintained this format for 20 years with it skewing its format more toward the 25-54 demographic as an Urban Adult Contemporary. Majic has consistently been one of the market's leaders, delivering Washington's most loyal audience. In 1999, WMMJ acquired the syndication rights of the \"Tom Joyner Morning Show\" from rival Urban AC WHUR-FM. In the summer of 2008, it also became home to Mo'Nique in the afternoon until March 18, 2009, when Mo'Nique decided leave to \"further her career in television, film, and comedy\".\n\nOn June 23, 2010, WMMJ's live airstaff were let go in a surprise shakeup, despite the station posting its best numbers in the Washington Arbitrons. The shakeup began in April 2010, when its GM and PD were let go. WMMJ hired former WHUR morning man John Monds to be the new afternoon drive personality from 3 to 7 PM and Courtney Hicks as the new midday personality from 10 AM to 3 PM. Michel Wright has since replaced Courtney Hicks in Middays, and Adimu replaced John Monds in afternoon drive, and finally Donnie Simpson replaced Adimu, all formerly of WPGC (except John Monds). Monds was moved into the 7P.M.-midnight timeslot.\n\nSince the airstaff change, the playlist has been steadily leaning toward a Jammin' Oldies direction due to declining ratings; however, the actual format still remains on the Urban AC side of the line.\n\nOn August 3, 2015, WMMJ announced their new slogan as \"The Real Sound of the DMV\", and also made a surprise announcement that Donnie Simpson will return to the airwaves after retiring from his morning show on WPGC-FM in January 2010. \"The Donnie Simpson Show\" returned on August 17, 2015, and airs Monday thru Friday from 3-7P.M. (ET). In January 2016, Russ Parr moved over from sister station WKYS to WMMJ to replace Tom Joyner after 17 years on the station.\n\nTo bolster coverage in the southern and eastern portions of the Washington market, Radio One purchased WWXT (now WDCJ) from Red Zebra Broadcasting. WDCJ began simulcasting WMMJ on May 1, 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "2315493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315493", "title": "Petkov", "text": "Petkov\n\nPetkov (), feminine Petkova () is a Bulgarian surname derived from the first name Petko. It may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2315496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315496", "title": "Basketball Super League", "text": "Basketball Super League\n\nThe Basketball Super League (; BSL), also known as the ING Basketbol Süper Ligi for sponsorship reasons, is the top men's professional basketball division of the Turkish basketball league system. It replaced the former Turkish Basketball Championship (1946–1967) to become the Turkish Basketball League (TBL) until 2015 when it adopted its current name while the TBL name became exclusive to the second-tier and third-tier divisions.\n\nThe BSL is administrated by the Turkish Basketball Federation (TBF) and is contested by 16 teams, with the two lowest-placed teams relegated to the second-tier TBL and replaced by the top two teams of that division. Since the league's restructuring in 1966, 11 clubs have been crowned champions, with Anadolu Efes winning the title a record 14 times and Fenerbahçe 9 times. In recent years, Fenerbahçe dominated the league by winning 8 titles out of 13 from the 2006–07 season onward.\n\nThe BSL replaced the former Turkish Basketball Championship (1946–1967), which was the league's predecessor.\n\nAccording to official records, basketball was first played in Turkey in 1904 at Robert College. An American physical education teacher laid the foundations of the sport in the country. Seven years later, in 1911, Ahmet Robenson, a physical education teacher at Galatasaray High School, decided to introduce a new game to his students. Robenson, who also later became president of Galatasaray S.K., popularized the sport in Turkey.\n\nUntil late 1966, local basketball competitions were held in major cities like Istanbul (which hosted the Istanbul League), Ankara, and İzmir. There was also the former Turkish Championship which existed from 1946 to 1967.\n\nThe current Turkish top-tier level national league was founded in 1966, by the Turkish Basketball Federation, and began with the 1966–67 season, and it thus replaced those earlier competitions. The Turkish second-tier level league, the TBL (previously known as the TB2L), was also founded three years later in 1969, and since 2011, a third-tier level league TB2L, with the teams divided into two groups.\n\nThere are 16 teams in the league, and they play against each other twice, under a league system format, once at their home and the other away. At the end of the season, the top eight teams are entitled to participate in the league's playoffs. The winners of the playoffs are crowned the Turkish champions. The two top teams of the Turkish Second League are promoted to the top level Basketbol Süper Ligi. The two lowest placed teams of the Süper Ligi are relegated.\n\nThe winners of the former Turkish Basketball Championship (1946–1967) are not included, only the clubs winning the Basketbol Süper Ligi since its inception in 1966.\n\n\nClubs in bold currently play in the top division.\n\nNote: includes 2019-20 season.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2315501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315501", "title": "WBIG-FM", "text": "WBIG-FM\n\nWBIG-FM (100.3 FM) – branded BIG 100 – is a commercial classic rock radio station licensed to Washington, D.C. Owned by iHeartMedia, the station serves the Washington metropolitan area. The WBIG studios are located in the Washington suburb of Rockville, Maryland, while the station transmitter resides in Falls Church, Virginia. Besides a standard analog transmission, WBIG broadcasts over two HD Radio channels, and is available online via iHeartRadio.\n\nWOOK-FM signed on in 1951 on 95.9 MHz. It soon changed callsigns to WFAN, apparently to emphasize its status as the flagship of the Washington Senators radio network. The station moved to 100.3 MHz and upgraded power in 1952. By 1959, it is recorded as \"mostly duplicating\" co-owned WOOK (1340 AM).\n\nBy the late 1960s, WFAN was running a Spanish-language format, the first in the Washington area. In the mid-1970s, United Broadcasting, the owner of WFAN-FM, WOOK and WFAN-TV, along with semi-satellite WMET-TV, was beset by legal issues. In September 1975, the Federal Communications Commission cited WOOK for broadcasting fraudulent advertising and denied renewal of its license. Faced with losing one of their two radio signals, United decided to preserve the more popular urban contemporary format of WOOK, moving it and the callsign to 100.3 FM – now branded \"OK 100\" – in December 1976. The WFAN callsign and Spanish format, which had a smaller audience, moved to 1340 AM. The AM station's license duly expired April 22, 1978, and the 1340 AM allocation was turned over to WYCB. The decision to sacrifice the Spanish-language format led to complaints to the FCC from the local Hispanic community. Unlike equivalent bodies such as the Canadian Radio and Television Commission, the FCC does not concern itself with the type of programming broadcast by licensed stations, so it did not take action. In February 1984, the station rebranded as WDJY \"DJ 100\".\n\nStarting in October 1990, the station featured an eclectic smooth jazz format as \"Jazzy 100\", later changing callsigns to WJZE. WJZE was acquired by Colfax Broadcasting and adopted the oldies format as WBIG-FM at 4 p.m. on June 3, 1993. The station was sold to Chancellor Broadcasting in 1996; Chancellor then merged with Capstar Broadcasting to form AMFM, Inc. in 1998. WBIG-FM came under its current ownership when iHeartMedia (then known as Clear Channel Communications) purchased AMFM in October 1999.\n\nWBIG \"evolved\" from an oldies format to classic hits (1970s and early 1980s) on April 3, 2006. This was accompanied with a slight branding change to \"Big 100.3\". The changeover was not announced, and the new format followed Jack FM's lead by removing several announcers. Jeff \"Goldy\" Gold, who spent 12 years at WBIG, was the morning host at WFVL in Fayetteville, N.C. from September 2005 to February 2009. Since 2012, Goldy has been the host of Good Morning Fayetteville on News/Talk 640 WFNC. Kathy Whiteside now does mid-days at Lite FM in Baltimore, Johnny Dark worked at WTTR AM in Westminster, Maryland until his passing in September 2016, and Ira Melman worked for a while at WTOP-FM in DC, and now works for VOA, the Voice of America, in Washington.\n\nWBIG was the first station in the U.S. to work directly with a Beatle. Ringo Starr hosted and voiced the commercials for the \"BIG Ringo Starr Art Show\" in March 2007. It was the first time that artwork from all four Beatles appeared in the same exhibition. Proceeds from the sales of art benefited Ringo's charity The Lotus Foundations. The station converted their website from idigbig.com to idigringo.com and changed the graphics to reflect Ringo's participation, including home videos provided by Ringo.\n\nAfter the spring 2009 format change of rival classic rock station WTGB (now WIAD) to adult contemporary, WBIG-FM tried to appease listeners of WTGB by shifting to a musical position in between light classic hits and slightly heavier classic rock but still not becoming a full-fledged classic rock station. Four months later, oldies outlet WJZW (now WMAL-FM) flipped to mainstream rock (mostly heavy classic rock with a few newer songs). Throughout 2010, WVRX slowly siphoned listeners from WBIG, especially in WVRX's target demographic of men 25-54. By the third week of August 2010, WBIG had plummeted to 14th in the overall Arbitron radio ratings; it had been hovering around 8th place since the demise of WTGB. Accordingly, on August 30, 2010, the station fired its last on-air morning show staff: morning man Jon Ballard and news anchor Bill Stabler. After being fired, Ballard called into Elliot in the Morning (based at sister station DC101 WWDC, where Ballard worked afternoons until 2006) and began to discuss the incident with Elliot Segal. Reportedly, although Ballard did not criticize WBIG-FM or Clear Channel, WWDC management cut off the conversation by ending the show early and \"dumping\" to music, a process normally used to avoid content that would garner FCC fines. After Ballard's firing, the station shifted its playlist completely to classic rock, and began promoting the fact that it was now DJ-less. In October, the DJ's returned; with Lisa Berigan doing middays, Doc Reno doing afternoon drive, and Big Rig doing nights. On November 20, Tommy Griffiths would take the station's morning shift.\n\nIn July 2016, \"Big 100.3\" reverted to the \"Big 100\" branding.\n\nWBIG-FM is short-spaced to WRNB \"100.3 WRNB\" (licensed to serve Media, Pennsylvania) as the cities they are licensed to serve are only 112 miles apart. The minimum distance between two Class B stations operating on the same channel according to current FCC rules is 150 miles.\n\n"}
{"id": "2315503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315503", "title": "Ray Wise", "text": "Ray Wise\n\nRaymond Herbert Wise (born August 20, 1947) is an American actor. He is best known for his role as Leland Palmer in \"Twin Peaks\" (1990–1991, 2017) and its prequel film \"\" (1992), Vice President Hal Gardner in \"24\" (2006), The Devil in \"Reaper\" (2007–2009), and Marvin in \"Fresh Off the Boat\" (2015–2020).\n\nWise was born in Akron, Ohio, graduated from Garfield High School in 1965 and attended Kent State University in Kent, Ohio. He is of Romanian descent on his maternal side. He grew up in a religious family; in the past he went to a Romanian Baptist church in Akron and later moved to a Methodist church. Wise has been married to his wife, film producer Kass McClaskey, since 1978. They have two children together: a son, Gannon McClaskey Wise, born in 1985, who is an actor and writer; and a daughter, Kyna Wise, born in 1987, who is also an actress and a singer. Wise was previously married to actress Juliet Burr from 1974 until their divorce in 1977.\n\nWise is best known for his role as Laura Palmer's father Leland in \"Twin Peaks\". In the late 1960s and 1970s, Wise played attorney Jamie Rollins in the soap opera \"Love of Life\" for seven years and nearly 950 episodes. In 1987, Wise played Tom Gunther, Catherine Chandler's boyfriend, in the pilot episode of the TV series \"Beauty and the Beast\". In addition to \"Twin Peaks\", Wise has played several roles in science fiction. He played the harried dad in the horror film \"Dead End\". He made an appearance as Liko in the \"\" episode \"Who Watches the Watchers\", and later played Arturis in the \"\" episode \"Hope and Fear\".\n\nHe appeared in the Season 7 episode \"The Flame\" of \"\". He was featured in three episodes of \"Tim and Eric Awesome Show, Great Job!\" as Grill Vogel, the presenter of a fictitious instructional video series called \"Business Hugs.\"\n\nIn 1995, Wise was reunited with \"Twin Peaks\" castmate Sherilyn Fenn in the NBC telemovie \"\". He also starred as the Devil on the TV series \"Reaper\". In recent years, Wise has appeared on a number of political-themed television series and films. He briefly appeared on \"The West Wing\" as California governor Gabriel \"Gabe\" Tillman, and played Vice President Hal Gardner on \"24\" in 2006. In August 2006, Wise made a guest appearance in the series \"Bones\" as the primary suspect of the first episode of the second season (\"The Titan on the Tracks\"), and in the pilot episode of \"Burn Notice\". In Season 8, episode 13 of \"\" (2007), Wise guest starred as the head of a company testing pesticides on little children. Wise has also guest starred in two episodes of \"The Closer\", as lawyer Tom Blanchard. He starred in \"Charmed\" as the upper level demon Ludlow, who runs a school for the Source Of All Evil in the episode \"Lost and Bound\". He had a small role in one episode of the sixth season of \"Dawson's Creek\", playing Roger Stepateck. Wise starred in the 2009 SyFy original movie \"Infestation\". He played the lead as Avery in a psychological thriller, \"Iodine\", in 2009. He was a guest star on \"Psych\" and in 2010, in a special episode of \"Psych\" titled \"Dual Spires\", he joined his fellow \"Twin Peaks\" alumni Dana Ashbrook, Robyn Lively, Lenny Von Dohlen, Sheryl Lee, Catherine E. Coulson, and Sherilyn Fenn in a spoof of \"Twin Peaks\".\n\nWise appeared in several episodes of \"Mad Men\" as Ken Cosgrove's father-in-law Ed Baxter, the CEO of Corning, Inc. He appeared in \"Chinese Wall\" (Season 4, Episode 11), \"At the Codfish Ball\" (Season 5, Episode 7), \"Commissions and Fees\" (Season 5, Episode 12), \"To Have and to Hold\" (Season 6, Episode 4) and \"Severance\" (Season 7, Episode 8).\n\nIn 2010, Wise guest-starred as fictitious sports agent Bobby Fox alongside a special guest appearance from real life ex-Yankees manager Joe Torre on the TV series \"Castle\", in the Season 2 episode \"Suicide Squeeze\". He also guest starred on \"Dollhouse\" as Howard, a higher-up in the Dollhouse organization. He stars in Kyle Rankin's post-apocalyptic horror thriller film \"Nuclear Family\". Wise was announced the lead of the Mike Mendez thriller film \"Ov3rk!ll\".\n\nWise appeared in Season 4 of \"Chuck\" and in the FX television show \"Wilfred\" as a popular TV personality. He was cast in the part of Robin Scherbatsky's father on \"How I Met Your Mother\" in December 2010 (after Eric Braeden declined to reprise his role in a cameo appearance), and ultimately appeared in 6 episodes of the series in total. Ray made a cameo appearance as a modeling agent in episode four of season 2 of \"Workaholics\".\n\nWise made an appearance in 2012 in the TV series \"Rizzoli & Isles\" (Season 3, Episode 7, \"Crazy for You\") in drag as a cross-dressing judge. Ray played a disturbed ex mortician in the \"Criminal Minds\" episode \"God Complex\".\n\nWise prominently appeared in the music video \"Wishes\" for the group Beach House. It was directed by Eric Wareheim and features Wise in a kind of dreamy, demented football halftime show.\n\nWise appeared as Andy Rooney parody Skip Reming on \"Newsreaders\". In January 2014, he was hired to play the character of Ian Ward on the long running soap \"The Young and the Restless\". He returned to \"Y&R\" in September 2015. He played the mayor in the first season of \"Deadbeat\". Since 2014, he has appeared in multiple series on ABC. He had a recurring role as Marvin in the first two seasons of \"Fresh Off the Boat\" before being promoted to series regular for seasons three through six. He also appeared in the first two seasons of \"Marvel's Agent Carter\" as comic book character Hugh Jones.\n\nIn 2016, Wise appeared in the Netflix series \"\". He portrayed Jack Smith, an old friend of Richard Gilmore, who becomes the boyfriend or companion of widow Emily Gilmore.\n\nIn 2017, he appeared as a guest in the acclaimed TV series \"Fargo\", as Paul Marrane, a kitten-handler and metaphysical punisher, in the episodes \"The Law of Non-Contradiction\" and \"Who Rules the Land of Denial?\"\n\nHe played the character of Dr. Alec Holland in the 1982 film \"Swamp Thing\", directed by Wes Craven and based upon the comic book series of the same name. Dr. Holland is the man who becomes the titular character after his lab is destroyed and he is left for dead. The actual Swamp Thing character was played by Dick Durock. In 1985, Wise was cast as Sol Gann, father to Natty Gann in the Disney film \"The Journey of Natty Gann\", directed by Jeremy Paul Kagan, and then appeared as henchman Leon C. Nash in \"RoboCop\" (1987). He also had roles in \"Season of Fear\" (1989), \"The Rift\" (1990), \"Bob Roberts\" (1992), \"Grey Knight\" (1993) and \"Rising Sun\" (1993). He then played the roles of entrepreneur/millionaire Dalton Voss in \"The Chase\" (1994), Dr. Stripler in \"Powder\" (1995), Sheriff Blaidek in \"Evasive Action\" (1998), and Bart's father Harrison in \"The Battle of Shaker Heights\" (2003). The same year he played Jack Taggart in the horror film \"Jeepers Creepers 2\", and portrayed father and husband Frank Harrington in the horror film \"Dead End\". In 2005, he appeared as newscaster and commentator Don Hollenbeck in \"Good Night, and Good Luck,\" directed by George Clooney. In 2007 he appeared in \"The Flock\" as Robert Still. In 2008 he had a role in the horror remake \"One Missed Call\". In the year 2011, Wise played the role of United States Secretary of State in \".\" He appeared in \"Tim and Eric's Billion Dollar Movie\" as Dr. Doone Struts, the leader of the Shrim Healing Center. He appeared in \"Revelation Road: The Beginning of the End\" as Franks. He played Major Braxton Tanner in the movie \"Big Ass Spider!\" (2013). He was in \"Brother's Keeper\" (2013) and was in \"Suburban Gothic\" (2014). In 2014 Wise appeared in the documentary horror film \"Digging Up the Marrow\" under the direction of Adam Green. In 2016, Wise starred as attorney Peter Kane in the film \"God's Not Dead 2\", who represents the ACLU in its fight to have the protagonist, Grace Wesley (Melissa Joan Hart), convicted of proselytizing in a public school.\n\nAs a voice actor, Wise played Perry White in the movie \"\". He also plays Commissioner Gordon in the of \"\".\n\nHe is also known for portraying Michael Dugan, President of the United States, in the full-motion video cutscenes for the computer real-time strategy game \"\" and its expansion, \"\".\n\nIn 2014, Wise starred in an original Chipotle web series titled \"Farmed and Dangerous;\" he played Buck Marshall in the satirical black comedy-type situation comedy. In 2018, Wise made a guest appearance in the second volume of Hyper RPG's horror anthology RPG, \"10 Candles\", explaining to the party the mysteries of the town of Kolob. He reprised that role in 2019 for the opening credits of 'Kollok 1991', another RPG series by Hyper RPG.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2315510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315510", "title": "Němec", "text": "Němec\n\nNěmec () is a common Czech surname, meaning German, \"mute\", or \"(he) does not speak (Slavic)\". It comes from Proto-Slavic *němьcь (“foreigner, German”), from *němъ (“mute”) (Czech němý). The feminine form is Němcová ().\n\nNěmec or Nemec may refer to:\n\nNěmcová may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2315511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315511", "title": "WFRE", "text": "WFRE\n\nWFRE (99.9 FM) is a radio station located in Frederick, Maryland, in the United States. It plays Country music and is owned by Connoisseur Media along with its sister station 930 WFMD. Despite the station being located approximately 45 miles (72 kilometers) away from the two closest major cities (Baltimore, Maryland and Washington, D.C.), its signal reaches both markets.\n\nIn 2007, Clear Channel Communications was required to spin off stations to comply with ownership limits. The stations were placed in the trust while Clear Channel sought a buyer.\n\nOn March 27, 2019, Connoisseur Media announced that it would acquire WFRE and sister station WFMD from the Aloha Station Trust in exchange for transferring its Erie, Pennsylvania cluster to iHeartMedia. The sale closed on May 21, 2019.\n\n"}
{"id": "2315514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315514", "title": "Preston Hollow, Dallas", "text": "Preston Hollow, Dallas\n\nPreston Hollow is a neighborhood in north Dallas, Texas, USA. It is bordered on the south by the city of University Park, Texas.\n\nIra P. DeLoache developed the area. In 1924, DeLoache bought a farm; Preston Hollow's first lots were carved out of the former farm parcels. DeLoache and Al Joyce developed Preston Hollow, with development mainly occurring in the 1930s. At first, Preston Road was the area's only connection to Downtown Dallas. Terry Box of \"The Dallas Morning News\" said that the Northwest Highway \"was nothing more than muddy right of way.\" The area that would later become Preston Center was a dairy farm in the early to mid-20th Century.\n\nPreston Hollow eventually extended from east of Preston Road (the cattle-drivers' route to the old Chisholm Trail), slightly north of Walnut Hill Lane, west of Midway Road and southwest of Northwest Highway.\n\nThe developers intended Preston Hollow to be what Box said was \"more than a flatland suburb on the fringes of a new and growing Dallas.\" Doctors, entrepreneurs, industrialists, lawyers, and oil businesspeople moved to Preston Hollow. Many built country-style estates that housed horses and stables. A private school which later became St. Mark's School of Texas opened in the area.\n\nIn the early 1930s, during the Depression, Edward James Solon, the treasurer of a company called Interstate and the partner who came with Karl Hoblitzelle from Chicago to Dallas, purchased the first Preston Hollow corner property at Douglas and Averill Way. DeLoache built a Dillbeck designed house on the property. This Tudor styled home was considered the beginning of the many large estates built in what is now termed the Old Preston Hollow area—an earlier large house in the area, by the pond near Avrill, was considered as part of the farm.\n\nIn the 1930s, moving beyond Northwest Highway was considered \"going into the sticks\" and risky in terms of attracting affluent homeowners. Later many people said that E.J. Solon's estate started the North Dallas migration.\n\nIncorporated as a municipality in 1939, and provisioned by the Preston Road Fresh Water Supply District, the North Dallas town of Preston Hollow was named for the dark wooded area with creeks and hollows extending westward from Preston Road. The bramble in Preston Hollow was unique in the Dallas area, and all home builders in the area were to preserve it as part of the covenant.\n\nIn 1945 Preston Hollow residents voted to join the city of Dallas, and the municipality was annexed to Dallas shortly after that. That same year, the residents of Preston Hollow's southern neighbor, University Park and its southern neighbor, Highland Park, (collectively, the Park Cities) voted to remain independent municipalities.\n\nDespite a 1948 U. S. Supreme Court ruling that state courts cannot enforce race-based restrictions on the occupancy of real estate, a covenant was enacted in 1956 for 17 lots in the James Meaders Estates subdivision of Preston Hollow, which stated that only white residents were allowed to live on those lots unless they were \"domestic servants of a different race or nationality in the employ of a tenant.\" In July 2000 the residents repealed this restriction.\n\nTeardowns of mid-20th Century ranch-style houses in portions of Preston Hollow began after land values increased in the 1980s.\n\nIn September 2008, Preston Hollow returned to national headlines when \"New York Post\" gossip columnist Cindy Adams wrote a column claiming that U.S. President George W. Bush and his wife Laura Bush had purchased a home in Preston Hollow. Described as \"a big house on five acres,\" Adams also claimed that this house would have \"horse stables, lake views, mountain views, golf club views\" and that Preston Hollow is \"a town outside Dallas.\" Dallas media pointed out the significant factual errors in the column (perhaps, most glaringly, Dallas' location in the Great Plains region of Texas, where no mountains exist) and noted that the real estate agent cited denied both the report or that the \"Post\" had ever contacted her.\n\nPreston Hollow has a wide variety of prominent residents including:\n\nPoliticians former U.S. President George W. Bush, former Dallas mayors Tom Leppert and Laura Miller and her husband, retired Texas legislator Steve Wolens; and Christina Crain, the namesake of the Christina Crain Unit women's prison and former chairperson of the Texas Board of Criminal Justice.\n\nBusiness executives include Ross Perot, energy tycoon T. Boone Pickens, former American Airlines chairman Bob Crandall, software developer Larry Lacerte, Stream Energy Chairman Rob Snyder, and investor Harold Simmons.\n\nSports & entertainment figures include Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban, former Dallas Mavericks player Dirk Nowitzki, former Dallas Cowboys players Roger Staubach, Daryl Johnston, and Chuck Howley, previous Dallas Stars owner Tom Hicks, former Dallas Cowboys football coach Wade Phillips, golfer Lee Trevino, golfer Jordan Spieth, and current Dallas Stars player Tyler Seguin.\n\nNoted residents of Old Preston Hollow who are now deceased include ClubCorp founder Robert H. Dedman Sr., trial lawyer and Democratic Party fundraiser Fred Baron and his wife Lisa Blue Baron, and Mary Kay founder Mary Kay Ash.\n\nRichard B. Spencer grew up in Preston Hollow.\n\nPreston Hollow is located north of Downtown Dallas. Preston Road is the main arterial road in the area. Terry Box of \"The Dallas Morning News\" said in 1987 that the corridor Preston Road travels through, between the Northwest Highway and the LBJ Freeway, is referred to as the \"golden corridor\" of Dallas due to its wealth.\n\nLisa Tanner of the \"Dallas Business Journal\" said, \"The lines that define Preston Hollow are somewhat blurred.\" She said that Preston Hollow had been commonly defined as being bounded by the Northwest Highway to the south, Royal Lane to the north, and Hillcrest Road to the east. She noted that there were several \"western measures.\" Mary Jacobs of \"The Dallas Morning News\" noted that area real estate agents usually define the boundaries of Preston Hollow as the Northwest Highway, Royal Lane, Hillcrest Road, and Midway Road. Roland Anderson, a resident, quoted by \"The Dallas Morning News\", said that real estate agents use the name in the broadest manner possible because they believe the name has \"panache.\" He added that, in the words of Jacobs, \"Preston Hollow is really an amalgamation of neighborhoods.\"\n\nThe area belonging to the former Preston Hollow town is now known as the \"Estate area.\" The neighborhood is in western Preston Hollow. Tanner said that the estate area is east of Midway Road and west of Preston Road. Jacobs noted that the estate area is bounded by Preston Road, Walnut Hill Lane, Midway Road, and the Northwest Highway. She added that \"The so-called estate area on Preston Hollow's western side boasts large lots with grand entrances, rolling hills, and winding streets, and is home to some of the most luxurious mansions in Dallas.\" Walnut Hill was the northern boundary of the former Preston Hollow municipality. Terry Box of \"The Dallas Morning News\" said in 1989 that the area north of Walnut Hill was \"less prestigious\" but \"still affluent, with well-maintained upper-middle- and middle-class neighborhoods stretching to Royal Lane.\"\n\nNancy Moore of the \"Morning News\" said that the boundaries of eastern Preston Hollow were Northwest Highway, Royal Lane, Preston Road, and Hillcrest Road. Most of east Preston Hollow is under the jurisdiction of two homeowners associations: Preston Hollow East and Preston Hollow North. Eastern Preston Hollow is divided into several lots. The houses in eastern Preston Hollow include 1950s ranch houses and newer, larger houses. The more modern homes have or more space. Kay Weeks, a realtor of Ebby Halliday Realtors and a resident of Preston Hollow, said that over 20 years until 2009, many former middle-class areas became wealthier. Since newer houses in Preston Hollow opened, the land value increased. Many lots, as of 2009, were selling for $1 million ($ in today's money) or more. Some such lots in popular locations had a value of $2 million each ($ in today's money). The newer houses are larger single-family homes. Preston Hollow North's boundaries are Preston Road, Hillcrest Road, Royal Lane, and Walnut Hill Lane. Preston Hollow East consists of the single-family houses in an area bounded by the Dallas North Tollway, Hillcrest Road, Joyce Way, and Del Norte Lane.\n\nThe Dallas Fire Department operates Station #41, which opened on January 16, 1958, in Preston Hollow. Area residents and business owners refer to it as the \"Preston-Royal Fire Department.\" Fire Station #27, which opened in 1948, is adjacent to Preston Hollow.\n\nThe United States Postal Service operates the Preston Post Office.\n\nPreston Center, a commercial area, is located in proximity to Preston Hollow. The development includes two 20-story office towers that opened during a construction boom of the late 1970s and early 1980s. As of 1989, many of the Preston Center buildings were partially vacant. During that year, Terry Box of \"The Dallas Morning News\" said that the empty buildings were \"viewed as intrusive symbols of the city's failure to control its growth\" and \"have come to exemplify much of what is wrong with North Dallas.\" Around that time, residents tried to pressure area politicians into making the development more low-rise and further removed from the Preston Hollow community.\n\nThe Dallas Galleria and the NorthPark Center are in proximity to Preston Hollow.\n\nDallas Independent School District (DISD) operates local public schools.\n\nElementary schools serving areas in Preston Hollow include John J. Pershing (in Preston Hollow), Preston Hollow (in Preston Hollow North), Walnut Hill, and Harry C. Withers.\n\nResidents zoned to Pershing and Preston Hollow are zoned to Benjamin Franklin Middle School and Hillcrest High School. Residents zoned to Walnut Hill are zoned to Cary Middle School and Thomas Jefferson High School. Residents zoned to Withers are zoned to E.D. Walker Middle School and W.T. White High School.\n\nWithers has a Spanish-English dual-language program. As of 2013, this program has a waiting list, and the school has a lottery system. Walnut Hill Elementary and Walker Middle also have Spanish-English dual-language programs.\n\nIn the 2005–06 school year, three elementary schools, Pershing, Preston Hollow, and Walnut Hill served sections of the Preston Hollow area. Residents zoned to Preston Hollow and Pershing were zoned to Franklin Middle School and Hillcrest High School. Residents zoned to Walnut Hill were zoned to Cary Middle School and Thomas Jefferson High School. In Fall 2006, the attendance boundaries changed, with a portion of the former Walnut Hill zone being rezoned to Withers. The Withers section was rezoned from Cary and Thomas Jefferson to Walker Middle School and W.T. White High School.\n\nIn 2006, Preston Hollow Elementary School achieved notoriety after a lawsuit claiming the school's class-assignment policies violated the 1954 Supreme Court Brown v. Board of Education decision. Judge Sam Lindsay ruled in November that the school's practices were not legal because they attempted to keep white students together even if minority students had to be placed in inappropriate courses; this ruling was miscited in at least one local paper as indicating that \"all-white\" classes had been created.\n\nAs of 2007, most Preston Hollow residents send their children to private schools.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Dallas operates area Catholic schools. Ursuline Academy of Dallas, a Catholic girls' high school, is located in the Estate area of Preston Hollow. Non-Catholic private schools within Preston Hollow North include St. Mark's School of Texas (1–12) and Preston Hollow Presbyterian School (1–6).\n\nPrivate Catholic schools in the surrounding area include Jesuit College Preparatory School of Dallas (Boys, 9–12), Christ the King Catholic School (K-8), St. Rita Catholic School (K-8) and St. Monica Catholic School (K-8). Other private schools in the surrounding area include Episcopal School of Dallas (PreK-12), Hockaday School (PreK-12, Girls), Parish Episcopal School (PreK-12), and Good Shepherd Episcopal School (PreK-8).\n\nThree co-ed, nonsectarian private schools exist in Dallas that do not require uniforms, the Greenhill School (boys and girls k-12) in Addison, Lakehill Preparatory School in East Dallas, and Alcuin School all of which serve as an option for parents who want to send their children to schools not backed by a religious organization.\n\nPreston Hollow Early Childhood Association is a private preschool group for Preston Hollow area parents of children from newborn up to 6 years of age. The group organizes playgroups, social events, and other activities to support families of young children.\n\nPreston Hollow is within the Dallas County Community College District.\n\nSouthern Methodist University is in proximity to Preston Hollow.\n\nDallas Public Library operates the Preston Royal Branch in the Preston Hollow area. It first opened in 1964. Its roof has arches above, and according to Andrew Scoggin of \"The Dallas Morning News\", this makes the library appear distinct compared to others in the library system. , there is no funding for a new library building intended to replace the current library.\n\nThe City of Dallas operates two neighborhood parks, Netherland Park and Preston Hollow Park. The Preston Hollow Park includes two baseball/softball fields, one soccer (football) field, two tennis courts, one basketball court, one playground, seven picnic tables, and trails. The Netherland Park includes two tennis courts and trails. Preston Hollow East and Preston Hollow North, two homeowners associations that cover most of eastern Preston Hollow, organize recreational activities such as book clubs and gourmet groups.\n\n\"The Dallas Morning News\" is the local citywide newspaper. The locally produced Preston Hollow People is also distributed to residents of Preston Hollow.\n\n"}
{"id": "2315515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315515", "title": "ABTA – The Travel Association", "text": "ABTA – The Travel Association\n\nABTA is a UK travel trade association for tour operators and travel agents.\n\nPreviously known as the Association of British Travel Agents, its name was changed on 1 July 2007 to ABTA, The Travel Association to reflect its wider representation of the travel industry.\n\nOn 1 July 2008 it merged with the Federation of Tour Operators (FTO).\n\nIt was founded in 1950 by 22 leading travel companies.\n\nABTA has been around for over 65 years and is the UK’s largest travel association, representing travel agents and tour operators that sell around £32 billion of holidays and other travel arrangements each year.\n\nThe main functions of ABTA are:\n\nABTA maintains a code of conduct which governs the relationship between members and their customers, between members and ABTA, and between members and other members.\n\nThe code is essentially a guide to good practice, although some of what it contains is also required under UK and European law. Those booking travel arrangements with an ABTA member can expect to receive:\n\n\nAll ABTA members have to abide by the code and those that breach it can face sanctions at ABTA's Code of Conduct Committee.\n\nThe ATOL scheme of financial protection (see below) covers flight-based holidays. If you buy a land- or sea-based holiday such as coach, rail or cruise holiday from an ABTA member your monies will be protected by the ABTA scheme of financial protection. This means that if your travel company fails and your holiday can no longer go ahead you will be entitled to a refund if you are yet to travel and hotel costs and transport home if you are abroad.\n\nIn addition to financial protection, ABTA members are also bound to comply with the ABTA code of conduct, which ensures high service standards and fair terms of trading. Booking with an ABTA member also gives you recourse should you have a problem or complaint with your travel company.\n\nATOL stands for Air Travel Organisers’ Licence. It is a government-run financial protection scheme operated by the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA). All monies you pay for package holidays involving flights and holidays including a flight plus accommodation and/or car hire, must be protected under an ATOL licence. You will receive an ATOL Certificate at the time you make your payment, and you will need to keep the certificate safe.\n\nATOL cover means that if your travel company fails and your holiday can no longer go ahead you will be entitled to a refund if you are yet to travel and hotel costs and flights home if you are abroad. Flights booked directly with an airline are not protected under the ATOL scheme.\n\nATOL is a financial protection scheme, it does not provide other assistance if there are other problems with your holiday.\n\nWhen your money will be automatically protected:\n\nABTA currently has around 1,200 members and represents over 5,000 retail outlets and offices. It is estimated that over £32 billion is spent on holiday arrangements with ABTA members every year, 90% of package holidays in the UK are sold through its members.\n\nIt has eleven regional divisions. The head office is situated near Vinopolis and Southwark Cathedral.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2315519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315519", "title": "Turkeyfoot, North Carolina", "text": "Turkeyfoot, North Carolina\n\nTurkeyfoot is an unincorporated community in North Carolina, United States. It is located on the Davie County and Iredell County line.\n\nTurkeyfoot is located at .\n\nNearby communities include Sheffield, Harmony, Lone Hickory, Houstonville, and Cana.\n\nOne prominent local topographical feature is Bear Creek. It is of such local prominence that after Sandy Springs Road crosses from Iredell County to Davie County, the road name changes to Bear Creek Church Road. While not directly named after the creek, this road is named after a local church so named after the creek. While not a navigable waterway, Daniel Boone often hunted along properties he and his father owned along Bear Creek while he lived in Davie County during the 1750s and 1760s. Bear Creek is a tributary of the Yadkin River.\n\nHistorically Davie County has had less liberal laws with regard to alcohol sales than Iredell County. As these laws change in Davie County, it has adversely affect businesses that have traditionally prospered from alcohol sales across the county lines including those in the Turkeyfoot community.\n\nOther local businesses include automotive repair garages, a farrier, a machine shop, a plant nursery, logging interests, dairy farms, family farms, digital film production services, and accounting services. Local churches include Rock Springs Baptist Church and Sandy Springs Baptist Church.\n\nFrom the mid-1970, family farming has followed the national trend of decline in Turkeyfoot. Regulations, such as acreage allotment, on tobacco farming has severely impacted acreage cultivated in tobacco once common in the mid-1970s. Starting in the 1980s some larger farms have been sold and subdivided into residential lots.\n"}
{"id": "2315520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315520", "title": "Procházka", "text": "Procházka\n\nProcházka () is a very common Czech surname. The feminine gender is Procházková ().\nA literal translation of the name to English is \"a stroll\".\n\nThe name approximates to the English surname \"Walker\". Other spelling versions include Prochaska, Prohaska and Prohászka.\n\nProcházka may refer to:\n\n\nProchaska may refer to:\n\n\nProhaska may refer to:\n\n\nProhászka may refer to:\n\n\nProcházková may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2315523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315523", "title": "WIHT", "text": "WIHT\n\nWIHT (99.5 FM) - branded as \"HOT 99-5\" is a Top 40 (CHR) formatted radio station that serves the greater Washington, D.C. metropolitan area. Located on the fifth floor of 1801 Rockville Pike in Rockville, Maryland, the station broadcasts 24 hours a day and is licensed to, and owned by, iHeartMedia. The transmitter is located on River Road in Bethesda, Maryland.\n\nLong known as WGAY (named for its owner, Connie B. Gay, a well-known country music promoter) and located in Silver Spring, Maryland, the station ran a beautiful music format in the 1960s and 1970s, which evolved to an easy listening format by the 1980s (though it would initially air a country format for a year when it signed on in 1960). During that era, WGAY-FM typically simulcast its AM sister station, 1050 WQMR \"Washington's Quality Music Radio,\" continuing the WQMR programming after the AM station signed off. Eventually the FM came to be considered the primary signal, and WGAY would often finish at number one in the Persons 12+ Arbitron radio ratings for the Washington, D.C. area during the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nTelevision ads for the station in the 1970s and 1980s featured station programmer Bob Chandler relaxing in a recliner while listening to his station's light mix of music playing in the background. During the 1980s, WGAY was reported to be then President Ronald Reagan's favorite radio station. WGAY was one of the last remaining major-market easy listening stations in the United States, as the format, which targeted older demographics, evolved towards a more mainstream adult contemporary format, or was dropped altogether.\n\nAt midnight on December 26, 1991, WGAY changed branding to \"Easy 99.5\", and shifted towards mainstream AC.\n\nDavid Burd of WASH-FM and Beverly Fox of WARW became the new morning hosts in 1994, replacing Steve Schy.\n\nOn September 1, 1995, at 8 a.m., WGAY re-branded as \"Star 99.5\" with new call sign WEBR, and shifted towards Hot AC, but listeners didn't accept the more up-tempo music, and the station switched back to branding themselves under the WGAY calls, though with a soft rock format, on June 24, 1996.\n\nWGAY switched from the still ratings successful format permanently by the late 1990s, although not because its listeners were too few, but because demographically, they were getting too old and therefore less desirable for radio advertisers. At 2:00 p.m. on April 13, 1999, \"Evergreen\" by Barbra Streisand was faded out with a liner touting a change, bringing the end to WGAY. After three days of simulcasting sister stations WTJM in New York City, KCMG in Los Angeles, and WUBT in Chicago, the station changed to an urban oldies format at 3:00 p.m. on April 16, known as WJMO-FM (\"Jam'n 99.5\"). At the time, they were co-owned with AM station WJMO in Cleveland, Ohio. The format lasted for almost two years. However, with ratings on the decline due to the arguable burnout factor of the music, combined with competition from WBIG-FM (which at the time played an oldies format; they now play a classic rock format), Clear Channel Communications (now iHeartMedia) (who acquired the station in 2000 due to a merger with AMFM Media and had dropped the format in other markets due to similar factors) decided to take the station in a different direction. Unlike other stations that dropped the format, however, WJMO gave its listeners the weekend to say goodbye.\n\n\"Jam'n\" signed off at 7:00 a.m. on April 2, 2001; the last song played on \"Jam'n\" was \"Last Dance\" by Donna Summer. That was followed by a \"Survivor Radio 99.5\" stunt before the current CHR format debuted as \"Hot 99.5\" at 5:00 p.m. on April 6. The first song on \"Hot\" was \"Survivor\" by Destiny's Child. With the change of format came a change in call sign to the current WIHT on April 18, 2001.\n\nWIHT's full market signal helped competitor 104.1 WWZZ (Z104) evolve into a more modern AC direction in late 2001; WWZZ would be driven out of the format entirely in 2006 as a result of WTOP moving to WGMS' former 103.5 FM frequency. The station was also considered to be Baltimore's default Top 40 station since their previous Top 40 station, WXYV (102.7 FM, now WQSR), would flip in September 2001. (Baltimore finally got a Top 40 station in November 2009, when sister station WCHH flipped from modern rock to Top 40 as \"Z 104-3.\") The station's main competitors are Entercom's combination of urban-leaning Rhythmic Contemporary WPGC-FM 95.5 and for years adult top 40 WIAD (\"94.7 Fresh FM\", now classic hits \"94.7 The Drive\"), and Cumulus Media's adult top 40 WRQX (\"Mix 107.3\", now K-Love station WLVW).\n\nWIHT-FM's HD Radio HD2 format was flipped to iHeartMedia's successful Pride Radio format at Midnight on July 16, 2013, replacing the \"Hot Spot\"-branded \"New! Music\" format that had been running on the HD2 signal since 2007.\n\nKane resigned from his programming position at WFLZ/Tampa on October 31, 2006 to start \"The Kane Show\" during the morning drive programming block on WIHT. He replaced the existing show \"The Hot Morning Mess\" with Mark Kaye, Kris Gamble and producer Ron Ross, which exited the station on November 1, 2006. The \"Kane Show\" officially hit the Washington, D.C.-area airwaves on November 13, 2006.\n\nThe show originally started off with Kane as the host and Sarah Fraser and Samy K as his co-hosts. After Samy left the show in August 2011 to work on his musical career with his band, Bonnie Rash, he was replaced by Intern John in 2012 (who got his stage name from the intern position he was holding at the time). During this time period, Melanie Glazener joined the show as a fourth co-host operating remotely out of Tampa, Florida. Sarah announced she was leaving the show in January 2013 to pursue a TV career in New York. She officially left the show later that Spring and was soon replaced by Danni Starr. After a period of absence, on January 20, 2014, Melanie announced on Instagram that she had left the show due to workplace differences. Soon after she was replaced by Rose. On February 11, 2016 Danni Starr left halfway during the show. After 3 1/2 weeks of being off air and many speculations on multiple media sites, Program Director Tommy Chuck confirmed that Danni had left the show.\n\nThe full lineup as it stands today is Intern John, Rose, and Riley (who joined in early 2017) as co-hosts.\n\nThe show was named \"Best Local Morning show\" in 2009 by industry magazine \"FMQB\". The \"Kane Show\" is broadcast on seven additional radio stations, such as WNRW, \"Radio Now 98.9\", Louisville, and WZFT, Baltimore. After 18 years, WFLZ's \"MJ Morning Show\" ended on February 17, 2012. It was announced that the Kane show would replace that show three days later.\n\nThe Kane Show debuted on iHeartRadio as a 24-hour on-demand channel in January 2010. Listeners are able to stream the \"Kane Show\" through both the iHeartRadio website and its respective smartphone applications.\n\nAs of April 12, 2020 news sources report that “The Kane Show” has been cancelled and no further Information has been given. The departure was abrupt with the last show being on April 10 and the new morning show “Your Morning Show” beginning with the remaining members on April 13, 2020.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2315531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315531", "title": "Greenspond", "text": "Greenspond\n\nGreenspond is a community in the province of Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada.\n\nIt is one of the communities that comprise an area called Bonavista North, in Bonavista Bay, on the northeast coast of the Island of Newfoundland. These communities have a shared history in that they were settled by people from England, predominantly from the West Country: Somerset, Devon, Dorset and Hampshire.\n\nResearch on this page has been contributed by the Greenspond Historical Society.\n\nGreenspond is one of the oldest continuously inhabited outports in Newfoundland, having been settled in the 1690s. In the first 100 years after settlement, the people of Greenspond lived from the bounty of the sea. The community thrived and became a major trading centre because of its proximity to and its position on the main sea lanes and was known as the \"Capital of the North\".\n\nThe community of Greenspond comprises several islands: the largest is Greenspond Island, and the smaller ones include Batterton, Ship, Newell's, Wing's, Pig, Maiden, Groat's, and Puffin Island. There are several explanations of the origin of the name \"Greenspond\". The most popular is that it is based on the names of two of the early families, Green and Pond. Another states that the name reflected the green of the trees that covered the island and the harbour basin which resembled a pond. Records from the French Colonial office referred to Greenspond as \"Grin d'Espagne\", roughly translated it means \"a little bit of Spain\". \"Grin d'Espagne\" could have subsequently been pronounced Greenspond by the English settlers.\n\nThe fabric of the church is deeply woven into Greenspond's history. The early settlers from the West Country of England brought their religious affiliations with them. The first visit by a clergy was Rev. Henry Jones of the Church of England, who under the auspices of the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel served in Bonavista Bay in the 1720s. His first trip to Greenspond was in 1728 but the first church came much later. St. Stephen's Church was opened in 1812 and owes its construction to the efforts of Governor Sir John Thomas Duckworth who had allocated funds for the building of the church. In 1829 a resident clergyman, Rev. N.A. Coster, was appointed to Greenspond followed by Rev. Julian Moreton in 1849. Moreton wrote: \"the mission of Greenspond ... is the largest ... in the diocese of Newfoundland, extending along the 70 miles of coast and requiring a journey of 200 miles to visit all its stations.\" The size of the mission facilitated the enlargement of the church in the 1850s.\n\nWesleyan Methodism made its first appearance in 1796 when Rev. George Smith, a travelling missionary from Trinity, organized a small Methodist class in the community. Services were held in stores and private houses, and, with the assistance of laymen, Methodist membership gradually increased. In 1862 Rev. John Allen became Greenspond's first Methodist clergyman in a mission that extended from Flat Islands to Musgrave Harbour. In 1873, the first Methodist church was opened with a seating capacity for 600. It served the congregation until 1965 when it was torn down to make way for a new building. In the late 19th century the Salvation Army came to Greenspond and built a citadel up on the Island. Later, as membership grew another larger citadel was built down by the main road. There were never many Roman Catholics in Greenspond. In 1826 there were 500 Protestants and 100 Catholics but many of them were to move elsewhere. The 1874 census shows 945 Church of England adherents, 499 Methodists, and 79 Roman Catholics. In 1901 there were only 18 Roman Catholics listed. Nevertheless, they built a small Roman Catholic chapel in Pond Head.\n\nThe history of education in Greenspond followed that of the churches. In 1815 the residents of Greenspond petitioned the government to appoint Thomas Walley as lay reader and teacher. Mr. Thomas Walley read in the church every Sunday and was capable of teaching the children to read and write. Therefore, residents John Edgar, Thomas Read, Nathanial Smith, and James Cram wrote to the S.P.C.K. asking them to pay a salary to Mr. Walley so he could be the school master. On October 25, 1815, The Newfoundland Governor at the time, wrote that Mr. Walley was being given 15 pounds per annum by the government to read prayers on Sunday in the absence of a missionary. He was also appointed school master and was given 30 pounds for two years. Thomas Walley continued to teach there until 1825 when he moved to Gooseberry Island to serve as schoolmaster there.\n\nIn a letter, written by Archdeacon George Coster on July 21, 1827, he said Greenspond had started building a house and schoolroom, and that the Newfoundland School Society promised to send a teacher. The first Newfoundland School Society teacher in Greenspond was a Mr. and Mrs. William King who left England and came to Greenspond in 1828. They opened the day school with 34 children, and the Sunday School with 54 children. In an 1829–1830 school report, it said the school in Greenspond was nearly completed and that the attendance was 56 children attending day school and 26 adults attending the night school. By 1831 there were 111 children in day school, 142 children in Sunday School, and 49 adults in night school. These numbers were unprecedented for a small community in Newfoundland during this period.\n\nMr. Benjamin Fleet succeeded Mr. and Mrs. King when he arrived in August 1832 and began school.\n\nIn 1839, Mr. Robert Dyer arrived from England and stayed for 20 years as the teacher in Greenspond. The Newfoundland School Society maintained a very successful elementary school in Greenspond. In 1844, for example, there was an average attendance of 103 children and by May 1847, 119 girls and 110 boys were recorded on the attendance, a total of 229 students. In 1850 Robert Dyer recorded in his diary that a visiting judge, Judge Des Barres, had claimed that the school in Greenspond was the \"largest in the island\". In 1852 Dyer recorded an attendance of 283, shortly after, Dyer made a request for an infant school, and in 1854 the number on the books for the infant school was 300. The Rev Vicars inspected the school on August 28, 1856 and found 109 infants under the care of a school mistress, Miss Oakley.\n\nThe Methodists opened a school in 1880 and a Salvation Army school opened in 1900.\n\nGreenspond's chief asset was its proximity to the inshore cod fishing grounds. During the 19th century, fishermen not only exploited the local fishing grounds but also went further afield to find codfish, some as far as the coast of Labrador. By mid-century it had become a prominent supply centre and clearing for the Labrador fishery which led to the appointment of a collector of customs by the colonial government in 1838.\n\nThe annual seal hunt was another asset in the Greenspond economy. The community's advantageous location, in the path of the northern ice floe, enabled land-based hunters using guns and nets to capture seals. By the early 19th century the seal hunt had become an important part of life at Greenspond. Historian Judge D.W. Prowse reported that in 1807 \"from Bonavista and Greenspond 6 ships went to the ice with 64 men.\" He also reported that in the town of Greenspond itself 80 men took 17,000 seals in nets. In 1860, 18 vessels, each with a crew of about 20 men, prosecuting the seal hunt out of Greenspond. Because most of the crews and sealing captains were drawn from Greenspond and neighbouring communities, sealing ships would leave St. John's and Conception Bay in the fall of the year and anchor in Greenspond Tickle until spring when the hunt would begin. There was great pride in the accomplishment of local sealing captains, such as Darius Blandford who made the \"quickest trip ever recorded\" and Peter Carter who secured the heaviest load of seals in the history of the industry.\n\nIts importance as a major trading and supply centre meant that Greenspond enjoyed a steady population growth of prosperous tradesmen and artisans: tinsmiths, blacksmiths, coopers, cobblers, carpenters and others. Merchant firms included Slade, Fryer, Brooking and Co., William Cox & Co., Ridley & Sons, E. Duder, W. Waterman, Philip Hutchins, Harvey & Co, James Ryan, and J&W Stewart. These companies were primarily engaged in the buying and selling of fish but also in supplying and outfitting for these fisheries. The fish-trading business houses were also general stores. Early in the 20th century, the Fisherman's Protective Union, which had a large branch in Greenspond, opened a Union Trading Store in the community and in 1910 Greenspond had the honour of hosting the Union's annual Convention.\n\nStatistics Canada detail demographics follow link here\n\nThe early inhabitants of Greenspond hailed from the West of England, mainly Dorset but also Devon, Hampshire, and Somerset. The names of these early settlers can still be found there today: Bishop, Blandford, Bragg, Burry, Burton, Butler, Carter, Chaytor, Crocker, Dominey, Dyke, Easton, Feltham, Granter, Green, Harding, Hawkins, Hoddinott, Hoskins, Hunt, Hutchins, Kean, Lovelace, Lush, Meadus, Mullett, Mullins, Oakley, Oldford, Osmond, Parsons, Pond, Rogers, Samson, Saunders, Smith, Stratton, Way, Wheeler, White, Wicks, Woodland, Wornell, Wright, and Young.\n\nGradually Greenspond acquired the services and facilities needed by a bustling commercial town. In 1848 there was a regular mail and passenger service, a fortnightly steamer, and a weekly overland route between Greenspond and St. John's. To insure the safety of the steamer into Greenspond after nightfall, the government erected a lighthouse in 1873 on Puffin Island at the approach to Greenspond harbour. In winter when the steamers did not run, the trains transported the mails to Gambo and from there couriers - often Micmac - carried it overland to Greenspond. John Joe, perhaps the most notable Micmac courier travelled for many years with his dogs from Gambo to Greenspond. The laying of a submarine cable between Greenspond and the Newfoundland mainland in 1885 and the subsequent provision of a telegraph service greatly enhanced Greenspond's communication with the rest of Newfoundland and the outside world. The turn of the 20th century marked Greenspond's zenith with a population of almost 2000, a resident doctor, magistrate, policeman, customs officer, clergy, postmaster, teachers, and numerous business enterprises. It can be said that Greenspond's export of human resources equals or exceeds its export in cod, seals, salmon and the like.\n\nThroughout the 20th century the fishery remained the major economic enterprise of the people of Greenspond: a bait depot was established in 1946, a fresh-fish processing plant was built in 1957 and a smokehouse was opened in the 1970s. In 1951 the town was incorporated, and with municipal government came water and sewer facilities, improved light and power services, improvements in local roads and, perhaps, the most important of all, the construction of a causeway connecting Greenspond Island with the Newfoundland mainland. In the 1990s Greenspond continues to thrive, a superb example of a Newfoundland coastal community which has survived and prospered for three hundred years despite the inherent fluctuations in a fishing economy.\n\nThe Orange Order was formed in Ireland in 1795 to honour the defeat of James II of England by William of Orange at the Battle of Boyne on July 12, 1690. The Orders origin spawned from distrust and conflict between Protestant and Catholic groups in the province of Ulster in Northern Ireland during severe economic problems in the 18th century.\n\nBy the 20th century the Orange Order had become a worldwide movement, with over 5000 lodges worldwide, 1700 of them in Canada alone.\n\nThe first members of the Orange Order in Greenspond joined in St. John's around 1870. Some of these men were, Charles Whitemarsh, Thomas Wornell, Edward Meadus, Sylvester Green, Job Granter, Ethelred Carter, William White, and Sr. James Burry. Around 1875 the Burnette Lodge number 28 was formed in Greenspond and had its first meetings in Fred White’s store.\n\nThe first Orange Hall in Greenspond was built in 1880, which was shared by Greenspond’s two lodges, Burnett and Glover. Glover Lodge number 33, named after the Newfoundland Governor of the time, Sir John Glover, was formed from a split among the Anglican and Methodist Burnett members.\n\nUnfortunately the Hall was destroyed by fire in 1898, causing the two lodges to hold meetings elsewhere. The Burnett Lodge held meetings at the St. James Society of United Fishermen Hall and the Glover Lodge met at the Blandford Society of United Fishermen Hall. In 1900 the Glover Lodge bought John Oakley’s shop and made it into their Orange Hall, while the Burnett Lodge bought the old Court House.\n\nThe hall that burned down was eventually restored by the Orange Young Britons (LOYBA), who were very active in the 1880s. They named their lodge \"No Surrender, number 29\", and their first master was George Burry of Greenspond. The LOYBA went dormant in the early 1920s until it reorganized in 1929. Another group, the Royal Black Preceptory, number 647, was formed in 1904 named \"William Johnson RBP 647\" and used the Glover Orange Hall. The first worshipful preceptor was a Mr. Edward Carter of Greenspond. This lodge went dormant in 1986.\n\nA Greenspond resident, Kenneth Oakley began correspondence with Newfoundland’s Prime Minister and Grand Master of the Loyal Orange Association, Sir Richard Squires, in 1914 to inquire about uniting the Burnett and Glover lodges in Greenspond. Oakley was the Worshipful Master of the Glover Lodge, and with over 150 members by 1914, the hall was no longer big enough to accommodate them.\n\nTherefore, in 1920 the Glover Lodge completely renovated and enlarged their hall. Four years later, the two lodges, Burnett and Glover, amalgamated and under the new charter the united lodges became Greenspond Loyal Orange Lodge, number 205. In the 1970s the hall was renovated once more by free labour which included a new roof, windows, siding and interior work.\n\nIn Greenspond, Orangemen paraded around the New Year but the fishermen always paraded on Candlemas Day (February 2). The parades were attended by Anglicans and Methodists, and eventually by the Salvation Army as well. They were usually large celebrations with a band and banners. The height of Orange activity in Greenspond occurred around the war years (1939–1945). Even when Orangeism was declining across the country Greenspond continued to thrive. In 1981, for example, Greenspond received a plaque for the most initiations in Newfoundland, presented to them by the Grand Master R.W. Bro. Renea Locke. Just three years later in 1984, however, the Lodge in Greenspond was inactive.\n\nPUFFIN ISLAND WIND TURBINE INSTALLATION\nGeographical Location - Puffin Island \nGeneric term Tickle \nLatitude 490342 \nLongitude 533306 \nEcozone Boreal Shield \nDrainage Region Newfoundland - Labrador\n\n\nF=Fisherman, P=Planter\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2315533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315533", "title": "Hašek", "text": "Hašek\n\nHašek is a Czech surname. The feminine gender is Hašková. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2315537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315537", "title": "Noise print", "text": "Noise print\n\nA noise print is part of a technique used in noise reduction. A noise print is commonly used in audio mastering to help reduce the effects of unwanted noise from a piece of audio. In this case, the noise print would be a recording of the ambient noise in the room, which is then used in spectral subtraction to set multiple expanders, effectively gating out those frequencies whilst the signal level in that band is lower than that in the noise print. Many plugins for studio software can be used to apply noise reduction in this way.\n\nNoise reduction usually results in unwanted artifacts, sometimes referred to as \"twittering\" or \"birdies\". Different algorithms for noise reduction control these artifacts with varying levels of success.\n\n"}
{"id": "2315540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315540", "title": "Farther Pomerania", "text": "Farther Pomerania\n\nFarther Pomerania, Further Pomerania, or Eastern Pomerania (), is the part of Pomerania which comprised the eastern part of the Duchy and later Province of Pomerania. It stretched roughly from the Oder River in the West to Pomerelia in the East. Since 1945, Farther Pomerania has been part of Poland; the bulk of former Farther Pomerania is within the West Pomeranian Voivodeship, while its easternmost parts are within the Pomeranian Voivodeship. The Polish term \"Pomorze Zachodnie\" (\"Western Pomerania\"), in modern Polish usage, is a synonym to the West Pomeranian Voivodship; in Polish historical usage it applied to all areas west of Pomerelia (i.e. whole narrow Pomerania).\n\nFarther Pomerania emerged as a subdivision of the Duchy of Pomerania in the partition of 1532, then known as \"Pomerania-Stettin\" and already including the historical regions Principality of Cammin, County of Naugard, Land of Słupsk-Sławno, and the Lauenburg and Bütow Land. After the Brandenburg-Swedish partition of Pomerania, Farther Pomerania became the Brandenburg-Prussian Province of Pomerania (1653–1815). After the reorganization of the Prussian Province of Pomerania in 1815, Farther Pomerania was administered as Regierungsbezirk Köslin (Koszalin). In 1938, Grenzmark Posen-West Prussia was merged in. \n\nAfter Germany's defeat in World War II, the region became part of Poland. The population of the area, being German-speaking by large majority, was completely expelled for new Polish citizens, some of whom themselves expellees to take their place. \n\nBefore 1999, the Szczecin Voivodeship (1945–1998) and its spin-offs Koszalin Voivodeship (1950–1998) and Słupsk Voivodeship (1975–1998) roughly resembled the area of former Farther Pomerania. The Szczecin and Koszalin Voivodeships were merged in 1999 and now constitute the West Pomeranian Voivodeship, while Słupsk Voivodeship was merged into the Pomeranian Voivodeship.\n\nThe German prefix \"Hinter-\" denotes a location more distant from the speaker, and is the equivalent of \"Farther\" in English and Ulterior/Trans- in Latin (with the corresponding antonyms in German, English and Latin being \"Vor-\", \"Hither\" and Citerior/Cis-, respectively).\n\nThe toponym Pomerania comes from Slavic po more, which means Land at the Sea.\nInitially, Farther Pomerania referred to the areas beyond (i.e. lying east of) Pomerania-Wolgast, and the name eventually became adopted for areas east of Stettin by the 16th century. When the 1648 Peace of Westphalia and the Treaty of Stettin (1653) divided the Duchy of Pomerania into its Western, Swedish and Eastern Brandenburgian parts, \"Farther Pomerania\" was used for the latter - in opposition to Swedish \"Hither Pomerania\" (\"Vorpommern\") now including Stettin (Szczecin) and a strip of land east of the Oder River. As this Swedish-Prussian border shifted west several times afterwards, the Oder River was considered the western edge of Farther Pomerania. To the Southeast and East, Farther Pomerania has no distinct border to the Pomerelian region, as the administrative borders between the duchy and later province of Pomerania and its neighbors varied significant over time. \n\nIn the post-1945 era, Farther Pomerania was affected by the Polish-German border shift. Before, it happened to be the Eastern part of German Pomerania (\"Pommern\", consisting of Hither and Farther Pomerania), yet thereafter it became the Western part of Polish Pomerania (\"Pomorze\", consisting of Farther Pomerania and Pomerelia). As Polish \"Pomorze\" has also been in use for Pomerelia, Farther Pomerania is termed \"Western Pomerania\" in Poland and roughly represented in today's West Pomeranian Voivodeship, including Szczecin \"(Stettin)\" and Wolin \"(Wollin)\". However, this term is not being adopted by the Germans, as the German part of Pomerania (Hither Pomerania) is considered to be Western Pomerania, so \"Farther Pomerania\" is still in use.\n\nMajor towns of Farther Pomerania include:\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2315541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2315541", "title": "Pomerania proper", "text": "Pomerania proper\n\nPomerania proper is a term used to distinguish the area of the former Prussian Province of Pomerania from Pomerelia, which is not always considered to be a part of Pomerania because of a somewhat different history.\n"}
